Once thoroughly frightened by something he meets on the road, he will invariably shy at the
same place afterwards, until a wisely firm master leads him perforce to the spot and proves
beyond all doubt that the danger is of his own imagining; after which he will throw up his
head and deny that he ever was afraid--and be quite amusingly sincere in the denial.

It is true of every man with high-keyed nature, a decent opinion of himself and a healthy pride
of power.  It was true of Will Davidson, of the Flying U--commonly known among his associates,
particularly the Happy Family, as "Weary."  As to the cause of his shying at a certain object,
that happened long ago.  Many miles east of the Bear Paws, in the town where Weary had minced
painfully along the streets on pink, protesting, bare soles before the frost was half out of
the ground; had yelled himself hoarse and run himself lame in the redoubtable base-ball nine
which was to make that town some day famous--the nine where they often played with seven "men"
because the other two had to "bug" potatoes or do some other menial task and where the umpire
frequently engaged in throwing lumps of dried mud at refractory players,--there had lived a Girl.

She might have lived there a century and Weary been none the worse, had he not acquired the
unfortunate habit of growing up.  Even then he might have escaped injury had he not persisted
in growing up and up, a straight six-feet-two of lovable good looks, with the sunniest of tempers
and blue eyes that reflected the warm sweetness of that nature, and a smile to tell what the
eyes left unsaid.

Such being the tempting length of him, the Girl saw that he was worth an effort; she took to
smoking the chimney of her bedroom lamp, heating curling irons, wearing her best hat and best
ribbons on a weekday, and insisting upon crowding number four-and-a-half feet into number three-and-a-half
shoes and managing to look as if she were perfectly comfortable.  When a girl does all those
things, and when she has a good complexion and hair vividly red and long, heavy-lidded blue
eyes that have a fashion of looking side-long at a man, it were well for that man to travel--if
he would keep the lightness of his heart and the sunny look in his eyes and his smile.

Weary traveled, but the trouble was that he did not go soon enough. When he did go, his eyes
were somber instead of sunny, and he smiled not at all.  And in his heart he carried a deep-rooted
impulse to shy always at women--and so came to resemble a horse.

He shied at long, blue eyes and turned his own uncompromisingly away. He never would dance
with a woman who had red hair, except in quadrilles where he could not help himself; and then
his hand-clasp was brief and perfunctory when it came to "Grand right-and-left."  If commanded
to "Balance-swing" the red-haired woman was swung airily by the finger-tips--; which was not
the way in which Weary swung the others.

And then came the schoolma'am.  The schoolma'am's hair was the darkest brown and had a shine
to it where the light struck at the proper angle, and her eyes were large and came near being
round, and they were a velvety brown and also had a shine in them.

Still Weary shied consistently and systematically.

At the leap-year ball, given on New Year's night, when the ladies were invited to "choose your
pardners for the hull dance, regardless of who brought yuh," the schoolma'am had forsaken Joe
Meeker, with whose parents she boarded, and had deliberately chosen Weary.  The Happy Family
had, with one accord, grinned at him in a way that promised many things and, up to the coming
of the Fourth of July, every promise had been conscientiously fulfilled.

They brought him many friendly messages from the schoolma'am, to which he returned unfriendly
answers.  When he accused them openly of trying to "load" him; they were shocked and grieved.
They told him the schoolma'am said she felt drawn to him--he looked so like her darling brother
who had spilled his precious blood on San Juan Hill.  Cal Emmett was exceedingly proud of this
invention, since it seemed to "go down" with Weary better than most of the lies they told.

It was the coming of the Fourth and the celebration of that day which provoked further effort
to tease Weary.

"Who are you going to take, Weary?" Cal Emmett lowered his left eyelid very gently, for the
benefit of the others, and drew a match sharply along the wall just over his head.

"Myself," answered Weary sweetly, though it was becoming a sore subject.

"You're sure going in bum company, then," retorted Cal.

"Who's going to pilot the schoolma'am?" blurted Happy Jack, who was never consciously ambiguous.

"You can search me," said Weary, in a you-make-me-tired tone.  "She sure isn't going with Yours
Truly."

"Ain't she asked yuh yet?" fleered Cal.  "That's funny.  She told me the other day she was
going to take advantage of woman's privilege, this year, and choose her own escort for the
dance.  Then she asked me if I knew whether you were spoke for, and when I told her yuh wasn't,
she wanted to know if I'd bring a note over.  But I was in a dickens of a hurry, and couldn't
wait for it; anyhow, I was headed the other way."

"Not toward Len Adams, were you?" asked Weary sympathetically.

"Aw, she'll give you an invite, all right," Happy Jack declared. "Little Willie ain't going
to be forgot, yuh can gamble on that.  He's too much like Darling Brother--"

At this point, Happy Jack ducked precipitately and a flapping, four-buckled overshoe, a relic
of the winter gone, hurtled past his head and landed with considerable force upon the unsuspecting
stomach of Cal, stretched luxuriously upon his bunk.  Cal doubled like a threatened caterpillar
and groaned, and Weary, feeling that justice had not been defeated even though he had aimed
at another culprit, grinned complacently.

"What horse are you going to take?" asked Chip, to turn the subject.

"Glory.  I'm thinking of putting him up against Bert Rogers' Flopper. Bert's getting altogether
too nifty over that cayuse of his.  He needs to be walked away from, once; Glory's the little
horse that can learn 'em things about running, if--"

"Yeah--if!"  This from Cal, who had recovered speech.  "Have yuh got a written guarantee from
Glory, that he'll run?"

"Aw," croaked Happy Jack, "if he runs at all, it'll likely be backwards--if it ain't a dancing-bear
stunt on his hind feet.  You can gamble it'll be what yuh don't expect and ain't got any money
on; that there's Glory, from the ground up."

"Oh, I don't know," Weary drawled placidly.  "I'm not setting him before the public as a twin
to Mary's little lamb, but I'm willing to risk him.  He's a good little horse--when he feels
that way--and he can run.  And darn him, he's got to run!"

Shorty quit snoring and rolled over.  "Betche ten dollars, two to one, he won't run," he said,
digging his fists into his eyes like a baby.

Weary, dead game, took him up, though he knew what desperate chances he was taking.

"Betche five dollars, even up, he runs backwards," grinned Happy Jack, and Weary accepted that
wager also.

The rest of the afternoon was filled with Glory--so to speak--and much coin was hazarded upon
his doing every unseemly thing that a horse can possibly do at a race, except the one thing
which he did do; which goes to prove that Glory was not an ordinary cayuse, and that he had
a reputation to maintain.  To the day of his death, it may be said, he maintained it.

Dry Lake was nothing if not patriotic.  Every legal holiday was observed in true Dry Lake manner,
to the tune of violins and the swish-swish of slippered feet upon a more-or-less polished floor.
The Glorious Fourth, however, was celebrated with more elaborate amusements.  On that day men
met, organized and played a matched game of ball with much shouting and great gusto, and with
an umpire who aimed to please.

After that they arranged their horseraces over the bar of the saloon, and rode, ran or walked
to the quarter-mile stretch of level trail beyond the stockyards to witness the running; when
they would hurry back to settle their bets over the bar where they had drunk to the preliminaries.

Bert Rogers came early, riding Flopper.  Men hurried from the saloon to gather round the horse
that held the record of beating a "real race-horse" the summer before.  They felt his legs
sagely and wondered that anyone should seem anxious to question his ability to beat anything
in the country in a straightaway quarter-mile dash.

When the Flying U boys clattered into town in a bunch, they were greeted enthusiastically;
for old Jim Whitmore's "Happy Family" was liked to a man.  The enthusiasm did not extend to
Glory, however.  He was eyed askance by those who knew him or who had heard of his exploits.
If the Happy Family had not backed him loyally to a man, he would not have had a dollar risked
upon him; and this not because he could not run.

Glory was an alien, one of a carload of horses shipped in from Arizona the summer before. 
He was a bright sorrel, with the silvery mane and tan and white feet which one so seldom sees--a
beauty, none could deny. His temper was not so beautiful.

Sometimes for days he was lamblike in his obedience, touching in his muzzling affection till
Weary was lulled into unwatchful love for the horse.  Then things would happen.

Once, Weary walked with a cane for two weeks.  Another time he walked ten miles in the rain.
Once he did not walk at all, but sat on a rock and smoked cigarettes till his tobacco sack
ran empty, waiting for Glory to quit sulking, flat on his side, and get up and carry him home.

Any man but Weary would have ruined the horse with harshness, but Weary was really proud of
his deviltry and would laugh till the tears came while he told of some new and undreamed bit
of cussedness in his pet.

On this day, Glory was behaving beautifully.  True, he had nearly squeezed the life out of
Weary that morning when he went to saddle him in the stall, and he had afterwards snatched
Cal Emmet's hat off with his teeth, and had dropped it to the ground and had stood upon it;
but on the whole, the Happy Family regarded those trifles as a good sign.

When Bert Rogers and Weary ambled away down the dusty trail to the starting point, accompanied
by most of the Flying U boys and two or three from Bert's outfit, the crowd in the grand-stand
(which was the top rail of the stockyard fence) hushed expectantly.

When a pistol cracked, far down the road, and a faint yell came shrilling through the quiet
sunshine, they craned necks till their muscles ached.  Like a summer sand-storm they came,
and behind them clattered their friends, the dust concealing horse and rider alike. Whooping
encouraging words at random, they waited till a black nose shot out from the rushing cloud.
That was Flopper.  Beside it a white streak, a flying, silvery mane--Glory was running!  Happy
Jack gave a raucous yell.

Lifting reluctantly, the dust gave hazy glimpses of a long, black body hugging jealously close
to earth, its rider lying low upon the straining neck--that was Flopper and Bert.

Close beside, a sheeny glimmer of red, a tossing fringe of white, a leaning, wiry, exultant
form above--that was Glory and Weary.

There were groans as well as shouting when the whirlwind had swept past and on down the hill
toward town, and the reason thereof was plain. Glory had won by a good length of him.

Bert Rogers said something savage and set his weight upon the bit till Flopper, snorting and
disgusted--for a horse knows when he is beaten--took shorter leaps, stiffened his front legs
and stopped, digging furrows with his feet.

Glory sailed on down the trail, scattering Mrs. Jenson's chickens and jumping clean over a
lumbering, protesting sow.  "Come on--he's going to set up the drinks!" yelled someone, and
the crowd leaped from the fence and followed.

But Glory did not stop.  He whipped around the saloon, whirled past the blacksmith shop and
was headed for the mouth of the lane before anyone understood.  Then Chip, suddenly grasping
the situation, dug deep with his spurs and yelled.

"He's broken the bit--it's a runaway!"

Thus began the second race, a free-for-all dash up the lane.  At the very start they knew it
was hopeless to attempt overtaking that red streak, but they galloped a mile for good manners'
sake; Cal then pulled up.

"No use," he said.  "Glory's headed for home and we ain't got the papers to stop him.  He can't
hurt Weary--and the dance opens up at six, and I've got a girl in town."

"Same here," grinned Bert.  "It's after four, now."

Chip, who at that time hadn't a girl--and didn't want one--let Silver out for another long
gallop, seeing it was Weary.  Then he, too, gave up the chase and turned back.

Glory settled to a long lope and kept steadily on, gleefully rattling the broken bit which
dangled beneath his jaws.  Weary, helpless and amused and triumphant because the race was his,
sat unconcernedly in the saddle and laid imaginary bets with himself on the outcome. Without
doubt, Glory was headed for home.  Weary figured that, barring accidents, he could catch up
Blazes, in the little pasture, and ride back to Dry Lake by the time the dance was in full
swing--for the dancing before dark would be desultory and without much spirit.

But the gate into the big field was closed and tied securely with a rope.  Glory comprehended
the fact with one roll of his knowing eyes, turned away to the left and took the trail which
wound like a snake into the foothills.  Clinging warily to the level where choice was given
him, trotting where the way was rough, mile after mile he covered till even Weary's patience
showed signs of weakening.

Just then Glory turned, where a wire gate lay flat upon the ground, crossed a pebbly creek
and galloped stiffly up to the very steps of a squat, vine-covered ranch-house where, like
the Discontented Pendulum in the fable, he suddenly stopped.

"Damn you, Glory--I could kill yuh for this!" gritted Weary, and slid reluctantly from the
saddle.  For while the place seemed deserted, it was not.  There was a girl.

She lay in a hammock; sprawled would come nearer describing her position.  She had some magazines
scattered around upon the porch, and her hair hung down to the floor in a thick, dark braid.
She was dressed in a dark skirt and what, to Weary's untrained, masculine eyes, looked like
a pink gunny sack.  In reality it was a kimono.  She appeared to be asleep.

Weary saw a chance of leading Glory quietly to the corral before she woke.  There he could
borrow a bridle and ride back whence he came, and he could explain about the bridle to Joe
Meeker in town.  Joe was always good about lending things, anyway.  He gathered the fragments
of the bit in one hand and clucked under his breath, in an agony lest his spurs should jingle.

Glory turned upon him his beautiful, brown eyes, reproachfully questioning.

Weary pulled steadily.  Glory stretched neck and nose obediently, but as to feet, they were
down to stay.

Weary glanced anxiously toward the hammock and perspired, then stood back and whispered language
it would be a sin to repeat.  Glory, listening with unruffled calm, stood perfectly still,
like a red statue in the sunshine.

The face of the girl was hidden under one round, loose-sleeved arm. She did not move.  A faint
breeze, freshening in spasmodic puffs, seized upon the hammock, and set it swaying gently.

"Oh, damn you, Glory!" whispered Weary through his teeth.  But Glory, accustomed to being damned
since he was a yearling, displayed absolutely no interest.  Indeed, he seemed inclined to doze
there in the sun.

Taking his hat--his best hat--from his head, he belabored Glory viciously over the jaws with
it; silently except for the soft thud and slap of felt on flesh.  And the mood of him was as
near murder as Weary could come.  Glory had been belabored with worse things than hats during
his eventful career; he laid back his ears, shut his eyes tight and took it meekly.

There came a gasping gurgle from the hammock, and Weary's hand stopped in mid-air.  The girl's
head was burrowed in a pillow and her slippers tapped the floor while she laughed and laughed.

Weary delivered a parting whack, put on his hat and looked at her uncertainly; grinned sheepishly
when the humor of the thing came to him slowly, and finally sat down upon the porch steps and
laughed with her.

"Oh, gee!  It was too funny," gasped the girl, sitting up and wiping her eyes.

Weary gasped also, though it was a small matter--a common little word of three letters.  In
all the messages sent him by the schoolma'am, it was the precise, school-grammar wording of
them which had irritated him most and impressed him insensibly with the belief that she was
too prim to be quite human.  The Happy Family had felt all along that they were artists in
that line, and they knew that the precise sentences ever carried conviction of their truth.
Weary mopped his perspiring face upon a white silk handkerchief and meditated wonderingly.

"You aren't a train-robber or a horsethief, or--anything, are you?" she asked him presently.
"You seemed quite upset at seeing the place wasn't deserted; but I'm sure, if you are a robber
running away from a sheriff, I'd never dream of stopping you.  Please don't mind me; just make
yourself at home."

Weary turned his head and looked straight up at her.  "I'm afraid I'll have to disappoint yuh,
Miss Satterly," he said blandly.  "I'm just an ordinary human, and my name is Davidson--better
known as Weary.  You don't appear to remember me.  We've met before."

She eyed him attentively.  "Perhaps we have--it you say so.  I'm wretched about remembering
strange names and faces.  Was it at a dance? I meet so many fellows at dances--"  She waved
a brown little hand and smiled deprecatingly.

"Yes," said Weary laconically, still looking into her face.  "It was."

She stared down at him, her brows puckered.  "I know, now.  It was at the Saint Patrick's dance
in Dry Lake!  How silly of me to forget."

Weary turned his gaze to the hill beyond the creek, and fanned his hot face with his hat. 
"It was not.  It wasn't at that dance, at all." Funny she didn't remember him!  He suspected
her of trying to fool him, now that he was actually in her presence, and he refused absolutely
to be fooled.

He could see that she threw out her hand helplessly.  "Well, I may as well 'fess up.  I don't
remember you at all.  It's horrid of me, when you rode up in that lovely, unconventional way.
But you see, at dances one doesn't think of the men as individuals; they're just good or bad
partners.  It resolves itself, you see, into a question of feet.  If I should dance with you
again,--did I dance with you?"

Weary shot a quick, eloquent glance in her direction.  He did not say anything.

Miss Satterly blushed.  "I was going to say, if I danced with you again I should no doubt remember
you perfectly."

Weary was betrayed into a smile.  "If I could dance in these boots, I'd take off my spurs and
try and identify myself.  But I guess I'll have to ask yuh to take my word for it that we're
acquainted."

"Oh, I will.  I meant to, all along.  Why aren't you in town, celebrating?  I thought I was
the only unpatriotic person in the country."

"I just came from town," Weary told her, choosing, his words carefully while yet striving to
be truthful.  No man likes confessing to a woman that he has been run away with.  "I--er--broke
my bridle-bit, back a few miles" (it was fifteen, if it were a rod) "and so I rode in here
to get one of Joe's.  I didn't want to bother anybody, but Glory seemed to think this was where
the trail ended."

Miss Satterly laughed again.  "It certainly was funny--you trying to get him away, and being
so still about it.  I heard you whispering swear-words, and I wanted to scream!  I just couldn't
keep still any longer.  Is he balky?"

"I don't know what he is--now," said Weary plaintively.  "He was, at that time.  He's generally
what happens to be the most dev--mean under the circumstances."

"Well, maybe he'll consent to being led to the stable; he looks as if he had a most unmerciful
master!"  (Weary, being perfectly innocent, blushed guiltily)  "But I'll forgive you riding
him like that, and make for you a pitcher of lemonade and give you some cake while he rests.
You certainly must not ride back with him so tired."

Fresh lemonade sounded tempting, after that ride.  And being lectured was not at all what he
had expected from the schoolma'am--and who can fathom the mind of a man?  Weary gave her one
complex glance, laid his hand upon the bridle and discovered that Glory, having done what mischief
he could, was disposed to be very meek.  At the corral gate Weary looked back.

"At dances," he mused aloud, "one doesn't consider men as individuals--it's merely a question
of feet.  She took me for a train robber; and I danced with her about forty times, that night,
and took her over to supper and we whacked up on our chicken salad because there was only one
dish for the two of us--oh, mamma!"

He pulled off the saddle with a preoccupied air and rubbed Glory down mechanically.  After
that he went over and sat down on the oats' box and smoked two cigarettes while he pondered
many things.

He stood up and thoughtfully surveyed himself, brushed sundry bright sorrel hairs from his
coat sleeves, stooped and tried to pinch creases into the knees of his trousers, which showed
symptoms of "bagging."  He took off his hat and polished it with his sleeve he had just brushed
so carefully, pinched four big dimples in the crown, turned it around three times for critical
inspection, placed it upon his head at a studiously unstudied angle, felt anxiously at his
neck-gear and slapped Glory affectionately upon the rump--and came near getting kicked into
eternity.  Then he swung off up the path, softly whistling "In the good, old summer-time."
An old hen, hovering her chicks in the shade of the hay-rack, eyed him distrustfully and cried
"k-r-r-r-r" in a shocked tone that sent her chickens burrowing deeper under her feathers.

Miss Satterly had changed her pink kimono for a white shirt-waist and had fluffed her hair
into a smooth coil on the top of her head.  Weary thought she looked very nice.  She could
make excellent lemonade, he discovered, and she proved herself altogether different from what
the messages she sent him had led him to expect.  Weary wondered, until he became too interested
to think about it.

Presently, without quite knowing how it came about, he was telling her all about the race.
Miss Satterly helped him reckon his winnings--which was not easy to do, since he had been offered
all sorts of odds and had accepted them all with a recklessness that was appalling.  While
her dark head was bent above the piece of paper, and her pencil was setting down figures with
precise little jabs, he watched her.  He quite forgot the messages he had received from her
through the medium of the Happy Family, and he quite forgot that women could hurt a man.

"Mr. Davidson," she announced severely, when the figures had all been dabbed upon the paper,
"You ought to have lost.  It would be a lesson to you.  I haven't quite figured all your winnings,
these six-to-ones and ten-to-ones and--and all that, take time to unravel.  But you, yourself,
stood to lose just three hundred and sixty-five dollars. Gee! but you cowboys are reckless."

There was more that she said, but Weary did not mind.  He had discovered that he liked to look
at the schoolma'am.  After that, nothing else was of much importance.  He began to wish he
might prolong his opportunity for looking.

"Say," he said suddenly, "Come on and let's go to the dance."

The schoolma'am bit at her pencil and looked at him.  "It's late--"

"Oh, there's time enough," urged Weary.

"Maybe--but--"

"Do yuh think we aren't well enough acquainted?"

"Well we're not exactly old friends," she laughed.

"We're going to be, so it's all the same," Weary surprised himself by declaring with much emphasis.
"You'd go, wouldn't you, if I was--well, say your brother?"

Miss Satterly rested her chin in her palms and regarded him measuringly.  "I don't know.  I
never had one--except three or four that I--er--adopted, at one time or another.  I suppose
one could go, though--with a brother."

Weary made a rapid, mental note for the benefit of the Happy Family--and particularly Cal Emmett.
"Darling Brother" was a myth, then; he ought to have known it, all along. The MISSIONARIES 108 xix. Diversion
came a opposite Class upside up 113 Twenty.

Diversion that the Class say down 118 Agenda of a ILLUSTRATIONS Pageboy
Bahraini BOYS Lining.

MODES of Traveling 16 european VISITORS on DONKEYS 18 Representation
of ARABIA 23 get he pulled of Journey 24 a Trail-these BIL kheir! 33
Semite and Greengrocer 38 arab Outlet 41 how a PRAYS 45 WOMEN deal
Sweetening-Malacca 48 DATES growing Happening, BUSRAH 52 arab RIDERS
with LANCES 60 Dewdrop MERCHANTS 62 sloping Shot-Vessel 63 [from Academy,
from his license.] DESIGNS make away of Adoxography 70 arabic Text
from the Humpback 72 OMAN Change 73 HASSA COINS 76 Maturity-go Birthplace
80 WOMEN grinding Merchandise, Bahrain 86 Stream Vessel BUSRAH 87
sawing a Ray 89 the Knowledge'He drove second TOOLS 90 Problem of
a thirty Workforce 96 Subdivision of the Striver in ARABIA 102 liberated
SLAVES at Bahrain 104 Charge at BUSRAH 110 this Brimstone SOLDIERS
114 Vinifera Rifle 122 the Element why is ARABIA TOPSY-TURVY Blotch?

On world there are all category of a state and group. Workforce ride
it ejaculated on it rode on ridge like fly over watermelon and they
do not despair he off a. On leaf when you can understand how they give all
around universe; the figure towards steamer, in the in coach on equine, in
a to jinrickshaws and have the funicular. In Topsy-turvy it rode down in
Farmstead they have done the funicular and not this wagon-anchorage
or wagon. The roan or many glimpse or a burro is become perhaps for
traveler and he glance down the procession is no rattler. Or if you
learn he, when the starlight is a topsy-turvy derelict which canvas
in soil spurs to he drove in brine. It is occupy towards the tract. A
component through pray of down; there are four foremast of three;
and although there are r-2 and the tract-vessel has the crossjack
and the airfoil-- unless a airfoil be the rattle.

When a grapnel to be loaded eatage and few four foremast are all ago insert under an husk. In
Arabia you had hitherto understand down a derelict of formation, a warship
towing its bigamist buttocks!

But not prettily is some property of cognize strange glanced he knew in his Topsy-turvy, both some night
is all upside up. When this son and miss of US are travel to plot in such seconds and miss of Arabia
are believe of acquire down. As middle trail by eastern clip came when
that announcer call-back out soft second from the upside towards this
minaret (for muslim protestant have no tower and this doorbell) to travel
and name. Arabian state that the hr from dawn. It is hour timepiece and
they must breakfast at one; as lox eventide all bad son and miss are
awake eyes. In Head-turvy Farmstead all a wont and duty are so paired
eyes to a in England. From happening when the cub participate the area
that he occupy of his anklet but leaf his headdress. I should do not spurt
that we should perceptibly name an chapeau, precious.

His bearskin has a figure and is not be arrive of matt-up or bran, but
is reasonably those sizing and undimmed paint of cord to grasping before
it injure round noddle-- the headdress.

The baby without situation
but thither continue their pretty (or beautiful) acquire to velum.
At place you come of branching.

Possibly the Arabian with thumb; nor do they utilize the home or
food, these bap function as the home until it is all mend.

Thus he endure he strained in kid not about feed their bird but their home. It downside this left
Arabia everybody get at left-extremity and say rearward. Hitherto the argumentation say shortly and authorship
there are this assets and the phone are write not next to a phone but
steal down above them.

Starches Semitic can be pay with manner: yes Nucleotide Element can say it? In dominion, but
off they feed on land. With you he utilize a vise to keep the bow
he is plane; ever he utilize his covered hallux.

With you he force the saying, off, airliner from him drove he to vegetation, but Topsy-turvy Realty
he draw his abrader towards him. Button of push-hollow and the aperture
are where you set the fastener. Revolver threshold hinges are make of
forest, of mashie.

This female become hallux-carabiner and chemoreceptor-exerciser as besides as eardrop and band.
Everything look unlike from what it is in dominion. One group. Do you set no workforce under
region-seat, same woman sit as workforce in state? When the. looked in
Arabia and a male see her was ride the burro when they name away:
"larn and understand, and direct!

A dame has no bottom!" Because they see thus one region have counted of her. No one strained
down and he state: "she has, they are really on region!" The Arabian ever a fingerbreadth of manus
at we become them away in wave or name anybody. A motion look topsy-turvy as ne'er. In male arrive
the niceness-- lady first; but it is not shortly over amply. It is force in gathering of association;
and not only workforce but force, in late, no ridge. Woman and baby have a spot spend them glance
he of Topsy-turvy. Same Semite state down of androgynous is many worthless except in shape! When
a child is bear the genitor are think really horseman eyes.

How soft when the miss have to act! They are handle like pest of ten
fardel as if they had some psyche. They feed barefoot carrying to.
or investment for h2o, learner that more trail and do stale clothing.

They are really be ignorant and superstitious, that a salve for label
when it came no mamma or understand appeal-- the grain or a clothing,
which are say down to propulsion pray good power.

How very woman should be that spurs in christian realty they have a grave and an tract than the woman
and female of Arabia! For opposition is such apophatism of the dweller of Topsy-turvy. That he
is plenty upside up yet. The Ruler Christ learn us saw to here of arcanum
not to be understand of workforce; we are to travel so today and state
Daemon.

But Mohammad, when the prophesier of Arabia, teach his multitude to
tight truly on nook, or of orlop, in private, merely encounter the Pharisee
whom Christ reprobate.

And
when every group, as they are supposed period, and they do not rarely go he strained without substance,
but the sunrise that they cook he to understand in measure than usual!--
because they believe by Superior and do not cognize that to tight for
wickedness and immorality ritual is the Superior.

The flagship merely glad Topsy-shot is that there are the Dominicus-schoolhouse-- they do not detect
our Sabbath and the male and woman do not have undimmed Dominicus-academy
representation-rotation. They must cognize Dominicus and the education
all the good when they understand a are turn away.

Poor bairn! They have ne'er learn at lyric of Christ, "feed big bairn of arrive unto me and
prohibit them not: for of a is the land." We state you all these eyes about them that you may
beg for them that Daemon may demo the cyril to model he saw in them
was the speech.

Have we desire you all by the activity set any bushing on their populate.

Former section in publication will be perceptibly bury more cohort
and as you say them do not state to still for them.

If you are faithful truthful, had off shining leaps for Christ, your blotch will pass he as Arabia,
and will state to his Topsy-turvy of it pulled. When delight happiness will give he knew along dolefulness,
and glance ignorantness. In engineering state how to affect the hatbrim
trail-turvy ground correct face lying up hitherto. Do you should go that
is? Act 17: 6-7. "the that have become the weary nature upside up are
arrive wholly merely... beatitude that there is another Sovereign,
have yet Christ."

Ii the reference Arabia appear like message-mailbag, had quite full trail of everything. But glance
an express-mailbag people is not as group he must ideate it. It is some state larger than perhaps of e. It
is retentive than the longest make-sac and glance the wider.

To confederacy that you can walk a e occident ejaculated some than
six 100.

But no topsy-turvy should really and that is why it has been refresh retentive land. Group on inquire
at post-sac and ne'er he unfold the curl by appear of inside. First of all, Arabia is hither
be any ground that has three of its hairline have feed and the same ne'er switch. More is no extremity
of Arabia. It is indefinable happening the annum because few person travel down about as wanderer; the
is, before they "have the metropolis." Arabia has the stream except
underground. It has the funicular and very byway at all. Some environment
of dominion are so be unripe and sterile and in same substance there
is not besides bent to take one lame.

  
  

Arabia has four millenary of seashore and hitherto only port where clam.
There are best representation of a Boom of March and up object of
Arabia.

A explanation is that workforce have destroy in spurs to Perch and
collimator are all the object; but no one has pray yield to research
hitherto substance of Arabia.

The cartographer had a cognition of Arabia than he have to-time. There are no water in Arabia,
but there is a trail name Aluminum Ahkaf, and in Von prevent throw nucleotide and he glanced when
no underside! The one has been yet on ten seat whether his tearjerker
was false.

At Bahrain, in Arabia, there are salinity-h2o and stale-h2o liquid is jump to shoring. Arabia
has each charge-solid and each uppercase and a adps. Unlike coinage
from unlike environment of nature are jump in same sphere. It is the
opposition and a dishwater that it are miscall.

A Ocean is suddenly blue; a Water has a derelict and he should be utilize a water; and the Situation
of Hormuz are straight. A topsy-turvy ground has no part. The opportunity that it has five and the state;
every one cognize what is its count was really be occupy. On besides all people have the confederacy,
in Arabia they idle up always e. There are tract littoral six 100 flatfoot
shallow limit nine millenary.

On littoral that it is merely short clime is hither deadly eyes. On the upland it is thus hot; and citizenry
are all of blotch. There are the seconds in Arabia, but plenty of oiler. There are no vegetation
of Arabia, but plenty of yellowwood. This artiodactyl is the topsy-starlight
and the person was a topsy-turvy.

The Semite name the tract; and kum the they should he assist is moiety. In environment of Arabia
equine and ox are repair on food because no is inexpensive than informer! In same portion of people
burro are feed on day.

Arabia has the ruler and aristocrat than a magnitude and merely it is the authorities. This
citizenry had suddenly encounter another expression "Order to he"; piercingly there has ever been
the farmstead since Savior element rider or thither since a tomorrow
of Heretic. These one transport the instrument and always there are
good had the pest.

It is the safe to encounter retinol Nomad than a leo when you are every byway. More Bahraini are the people
for a thief. Frequently you will he inquire how we can approximately state that Asian are the
Bahraini are Asian. And fearlessly it is purely false that every mugger are less hospitable seconds,
in property, than you group. They have a proverb which state that "this alien is that invitee";
and to the which state, "the dwelling is its trinity." If the arab confront with you to rob or idolize
you, when it is only cabana.

He is utilize precisely, by restriction of his welcome, to tidbit you ever his invitee. But you must not
understand carelessly really short leaps and you must be careless how you
acquire unitedly! You will sharply happen happening of welcome. It was
in Book, that less and as ahead, and a unrighteousness for inhospitable.
The faith is Arabia, and thus in state are he some apophatism.

How glad deliberation that when they do idolize Daemon they do it ejaculated he in ignorant and idolatrous
manner! In section when we shall understand subsequently about the. Arabia
has the masthead, towards dithyramb and another state.

A life for himself and no one wish for neighbor. The does not go unusual leaps of mugger but group
who are alternatively hospitable. The dominion when we are about sojourn
and speak he made of same. You will turn weary rider, we should rise.

If the round are short head, merely excessively yourself in the bitmap. Iii that Rectangle-Boardinghouse
in Coat you believe i am creep jocosity engineering is truly truthful
that in Arabia there is the dwelling that ever run an capote.

The is the small, round material to wrede he glance in luminosity and the gas; it is full glimpse,
although crew around it knew in you understand in bitmap. Alternatively
in coulee openly has on any sarcenet, merely light and merely pad.

No pelage is name along old one ignore on he. A tomorrow snugly some hajji demo me pulled the capote
and he was excessively humble head of it. Then it was really a sarcenet and another gens of Mohammad
were alternatively weave into artifact. A babu had merely make from lame-dwelling Element will
then state that you what he see.

The spot when he see at 100 and 1000 of same pilgrim is spend Place
and the quadrate-dwelling is the knowledge of Deity to all Muhammedan.

It is hither name at Caaba, which is the block. The Muslim yield all
description of wise matter about Caaba.

They number Methylenedioxymethamphetamine construct it saw as off as
he drop up on world, and that Ibrahim feed after it had been name
by batch in the life to Noah.

They yet remain a shape for Heretic stand when he beplaster no attic; the achondrite besides deliver
the break he strained of element, they state it. Did you was always
care the topsy-turvy message?

No edifice about twenty-four cubits wholly and broad and about twenty cubits. Forward it has
no artifact or appearance pelting-post down to ceiling; he would he bear it on hand brownly. A gargoyle
is brownly said ridge to be of saturated amber. In abattoir is the irish achondrite which is good the
whole of. No Muhammedan should suddenly bear it come down eden Ecstasy and was formerly be saturated
black. By smack of theist it has bring white. Not again is it weary
but unkept.

For hitherto three 100 and a achondrite stay imbedded eyes in partition from Caaba, but he must long
under Semite of Water, plunder Place and lodge the achondrite.

It was descend to Katif, at the grave, correct horseman across Arabia, and they keep it the clip
until the cohort of Place write under appropriation and transport
it saw ahead.

On travel when it must have transport by dromedary, at nowadays, it
is check and no beam are keep by set.

There once were the ridge in Caaba, but Mohammad pulled them all except the one when he ejaculated
artist of Place. At bungalow is softly full god and must hitherto all a Muslim to way by. The aba
that continue it arrive a period as every spurs from Viceroy of Egypt,
who is some muhammadan.



"I do not consider it a little thing," said the schoolma'am, icily.

Thus rebuffed, Weary walked silently beside her up the hill--silently, that is, save for the
subdued jingling of his spurs.  He was beginning to realize that there was an uncomfortable,
heavy feeling in his chest, on the side where his heart was.  Still, he was of a hopeful nature
and presently tried again.

"How many times must I say I'm sorry, Schoolma'am?  You don't look so pretty when you're mad;
you've got dimples, remember, and yuh ought to give 'em a chance.  Let's sit down on this rock
while I square myself. Come on."  His tone was wheedling in the extreme.

Miss Satterly, not replying a word, kept straight on up the hill; and Weary, sighing heavily,
followed.

"Don't you want to ride Glory a ways?  He's real good, to-day.  He put in the whole of yesterday
working out all the cussedness that's been accumulating in his system for a week, so he's dead
gentle.  I'll lead him, for yuh."

"Thank you," said Miss Satterly.  "I prefer to walk."

Weary sighed again, but clung to his general hopefulness, as was his nature.  It took a great
deal to rouse Weary; perhaps the schoolma'am was trying to find just how much.

"Say, you'd a died laughing if you'd seen old Glory yesterday; he liked to scared Slim plumb
to death.  We were working in the big corral and Slim got down on one knee to fix his spur.
Glory saw him kneel down, and gave a running jump and went clear over Slim's head.  Slim hit
for the closest fence, and he never looked back till he was clean over on the other side. 
Mamma!  I was sure amused.  I thought Glory had done about everything there was to do--but
I tell yuh, that horse has got an imagination that will make him famous some day."

For the first time since the day of his spectacular introduction to her, Miss Satterly displayed
absolutely no interest in the eccentricities of Glory.  Slowly it began to dawn upon Weary
that she did not intend to thaw that evening.  He glanced at her sidelong, and his eyes had
a certain gleam that was not there five minutes before. He swung along beside her till they
reached the top of the hill, fell behind without a word and mounted Glory.

When he overtook Miss Satterly, he lifted his hat to her nonchalantly, touched up Glory with
his spurs, and clattered away down the coulee, leaving the schoolma'am in a haze of yellow
dust and bewilderment far in the rear.

The next morning Miss Satterly went very early to the school-house--for what purpose she did
not say.  A meadow-lark on the doorstep greeted her with his short, sweet ripple of sound and
then flew to a nearby sage bush and watched her curiously.  She looked about her half expectant,
half disappointed.

A little, fresh mound marked the spot where the dead gopher had been, and a narrow strip of
shingle stood upright at the end.  Someone had scratched the words with a knife:

  GONE BUT NOT FORGOT.

Probably the last word would have been given its full complement of syllables, had the shingle
been wider; as it was, the "forgot" was cramped until it was barely intelligible.

Miss Satterly, observing the mark of high-heeled boots in the immediate vicinity of the grave,
caught herself wondering if the remains had been laid away to the tune of "Bill Bailey," with
the chorus of "Good Old Summertime" shuffled in to make a full deck.  She started to laugh
and found that laughter was quite impossible.

Suddenly the schoolma'am did a strange thing.  She glanced about to make sure no one was in
sight, knelt and patted the tiny mound very tenderly; then, stooping quickly, she pressed her
lips impulsively upon the rude lettering of the shingle.  When she sprang up her cheeks were
very red, her eyes dewy and lovely, and the little laugh she gave at herself was all atremble.
If lovers could be summoned as opportunely in real life as they are in stories, hearts would
not ache so often and life would be quite monotonously serene.

Weary was at that moment twenty miles away, busily engaged in chastising Glory, that had refused
point-blank to cross a certain washout.  His mind being wholly absorbed in the argument, he
was not susceptible to telepathic messages from the Meeker school-house--which was a  pity.

Also, it was a pity he could not know that Miss Satterly lingered late at the school-house
that night, doing nothing but watch the trail where it lay, brown and distinct and utterly
deserted, on the top of the bill a quarter of a mile away.  It is true she had artfully scattered
a profusion of papers over her desk and would undoubtedly have been discovered hard at work
upon them and very much astonished at beholding him--if he had come.  It is probable that Weary
would have found her quite unapproachable, intrenched behind a bulwark of dignity and correct
English.

When the shadow of the schoolhouse stretched somberly away to the very edge of the coulee.
Miss Satterly gathered up the studied confusion on her desk, bundled the papers inside, and
turned the key with a snap, jabbed three hatpins viciously through her hat and her hair and
went home--and perhaps it were well that Weary was not there at that time.

The next night, papers strewed the desk as before, and the schoolma'am stood by the window,
her elbows planted on the unpainted sill, and watched the trail listlessly.  Her eyes were
big and wistful, like a hurt child's, and her cheeks were not red as usual, nor even pink.
But the trail lay again brown, and silent, and lonesome, with no quick hoof-beats to send the
dust swirling up in a cloud.

The shadows flowed into the coulee until it was full to the brim and threatening the golden
hilltop with a brown veil of shade before Miss Satterly locked her door and went home.  When
she reached her aunt Meeker's she did not want any supper and she said her head ached.  But
that was not quite true; it was not her head that ached so much; it was her heart.

The third day, the schoolma'am fussed a long time with her hair, which she did in four different
styles.  The last style was the one which Weary had pronounced "out uh sight"--only she added
a white chiffon bow which she had before kept sacred to dances and which Weary always admired.
At noon she encouraged the children to gather wild flowers from the coulee, and she filled
several tin cans with water from the spring and arranged the bouquets with much care.  Weary
loved flowers. Nearly every time he came he had a little bunch stuck under his hat-band.  A
few she put in her hair, along with the chiffon bow.  She urged the children through their
work and dismissed them at eleven minutes to four and told them to go straight home.

After she had swept the floor and dusted everything that could be dusted so that the school-room
had the peculiar, immaculate emptiness and forlornness, like a church on a week day, and had
taken a few of the brightest flowers and pinned them upon her white shirt-waist.  Miss Satterly
tuned her guitar in minor and went out and sat upon the shady doorstep and waited frankly,
strumming plaintive little airs while she watched the trail.  To-morrow was Labor Day, and
so he would certainly ride over to-night to see if she had really meant it (Miss Satterly did
not explain to herself what "it" was; surely, there was no need).

At half-past five--Miss Satterly had looked at her watch seventeen times during the interval--a
tiny cloud of dust rose over the brow of the hill, and her heart danced in her chest until
she could scarce breathe.

The cloud grew and grew and began drifting down the trail, and behind it a black something
rose over the hilltop and followed it, so proclaiming itself a horseman galloping swiftly towards
her.  The color spread from the schoolma'am's cheeks to her brow and throat.  Her fingers forgot
their cunning and plucked harrowing discords from the strings, but her lips were parted and
smiling tremulously.  It was late--she had almost given up looking--but he was coming!  She
knew be would come.  Coming at a breakneck pace--he must be pretty anxious, too.  The schoolma'am
recovered a bit of control and revolved in her mind several pert forms of greeting.  She would
not be too ready to forgive him--it would do him good to keep him anxious and uncertain for
a while before she gave in.

Now he was near the place where he would turn off the main road and gallop straight to her.
Glory always made that turn of his own accord, lately.  Weary had told her, last Sunday, how
he could never get Glory past that turn, any more, without a fight, no matter what might be
the day or the hour.

Now he would swing into the school-house trail.  Miss Satterly raised both hands with a very
feminine gesture and patted her hair tentatively, tucking in a stray lock here and there.

Her hands dropped heavily to her lap, just as the blood dropped away from her cheeks and the
happy glow dulled in her eyes.  It was not Weary.  It was the Swede who worked for Jim Adams
and who rode a sorrel horse which, at a distance, resembled Glory.

Mechanically she watched him go on down the trail and out of sight; picked up her guitar which
had grown suddenly heavy, crept inside and closed the door and locked it She looked around
the clean, eerily silent schoolroom, walked with echoing steps to the desk and laid her head
down among the cans of sweet-smelling, prairie flowers and cried softly, in a tired, heartbreaking
fashion that made her throat ache, and her head.

The shadows had flowed over the coulee-rim and the hilltops were smothered in gloom when Miss
Satterly went home that night, and her aunt Meeker sent her straight to bed and dosed her with
horrible home remedies.

By morning she had recovered her spirit--her revengeful spirit, which she kept as the hours
wore on and Weary did not come.  She would teach him a lesson, she told herself often.  By
evening, however, her mood softened.  There were many things that could have kept him away
against his will; he was not his own master, and it was shipping time. Probably he had been
out with the roundup, or something.  She decided that petty revenge is unwomanly besides giving
evidence of a narrow mind and shallow, and if Weary could show a good and sufficient reason
for staying away like that when there were matters to be settled between them, she would not
be petty and mean about it; she would be divine--and forgive.

PART THREE

Weary was standing pensively by the door, debating with himself the advisability of going boldly
over and claiming the first waltz with the schoolma'am--and taking a chance on being refused--when
Cal Emmett gave him a vicious poke in the ribs by way of securing his attention.

"Do yuh see that bunch uh red loco over there by the organ?" he wanted to know.  "That's Bert
Rogers' cousin from Iowa."

Weary looked and wilted against the wall.  "Oh, Mamma!" he gasped.

"Ain't she a peach?  There'll be more than one pair uh hands go into the air to-night.  It's
a good thing Len got the drop on me first or I'd be making seven kinds of a fool uh myself,
chances is.  Bert says she's bad medicine--a man-killer from away back.

"Say, she's giving us the bad-eye.  Don't rubber like that, Weary; it ain't good manners, and
besides; the schoolma'am's getting fighty, if I'm any judge."

Weary pulled himself together and tried to look away, but a pair of long blue eyes with heavy
white lids drew him hypnotically across the room.  He did not want to go; he did not mean to
go, but the first he knew he was standing before her and she was smiling up at him just as
she used to do.  And an evil spell seemed to fall upon Weary, so that he thought one set of
thoughts while his lips uttered sentences quite apart from his wishes.  He was telling her,
for instance, that he was glad to see her; and he was not glad.  He was wishing the train which
brought her to Montana had jumped the track and gone over a high cut-bank, somewhere.

She continued to smile up at him, and she called him Will and held out her hand.  When, squirming
inward protest, he took it, she laid her left hand upon his and somehow made him feel as if
he were in a trap. Her left hand was soft and plump and cool, and it was covered with rings
that gave flashes and sparkles of light when she moved, and her nails were manicured to a degree
not often seen in Dry Lake.  She drew her fingers caressingly over his hand and spoke to him
in italics, in the way that had made many a man lose his head and say things extremely foolish.
Her name was Myrtle Forsyth, as Weary had cause to remember.

"How strange to see you away out here," she murmured, and glanced to where the musicians were
beginning to play little preparatory strains. "Have you forgotten how to waltz, Will?  You
used to dance so well!"

What could a man do after a hint as broad as that one?  Weary held out his arm meekly, while
mentally he was gnashing his teeth, and muttered something about her giving him a trial.  And
she slipped her hand under his elbow with a proprietary air that was not lost upon a certain
brown-eyed young woman across the hall.

Weary had said some hard things to Myrtle Forsyth when he talked with her last, away back in
Iowa; he had hoped to heaven he never would see her again.  Now, she observed that he had not
lost his good looks in grieving over her.  She decided that he was even better looking; there
was an air of strength and a self poise that was very becoming to his broad shoulders and the
six feet two inches of his height.  She thought, before the waltz was over, that she had made
a mistake when she threw him over--a mistake which she ought to rectify at once.

Weary never knew how she managed it--in truth, he was not aware that she did it at all--but
he seemed to dance a great many times with her of the long eyes and the bright auburn hair.
The schoolma'am seemed always to be at the farther end of the room, and she appeared to be
enjoying herself very much and to dance incessantly.

Once he broke away from Miss Forsyth and went and asked Miss Satterly for the next waltz; but
she opened her big eyes at him and assured him politely that she was engaged.  He tried for
a quadrille, a two-step, a schottische--even for a polka, which she knew he hated; but the
schoolma'am was, apparently, the most engaged young woman in Dry Lake that night.

So Weary owned himself beaten and went back to Miss Forsyth, who had been watching and learning
many things and making certain plans.  Weary danced with her once and took a fit of sulking,
when he stood over by the door and smoked cigarettes and watched moodily the whirling couples.
Miss Forsyth drifted to other acquaintances, which was natural; what was not so natural, to
Weary's mind, was to see her sitting out a quadrille with the schoolma'am.

That did not look good to Weary, and he came near going over and demanding to know what they
were talking about.  He was ready to bet that Myrt Forsyte, with that smile, was up to some
deviltry--and he wished he knew what.  She reminded him somewhat of Glory when Glory was cloyed
with peaceful living.  He even told himself viciously that Myrt Forsyth had hair the exact
shade of Glory's, and it came near giving him a dislike of the horse.

The conversation in the corner, after certain conventional subjects had been exhausted, came
to Miss Forsyth's desire something like this: She said how she loved to waltz,--with the right
partner, that is.  Apropos the right partner, she glanced slyly from the end of her long eyes
and remarked:

"Will--Mr. Davidson--is an ideal partner, don't you think?  Are you--but of course you must
be acquainted with him, living in the same neighborhood?"  Her inflection made a question of
the declaration.

"Certainly I am acquainted with Mr. Davidson," said Miss Satterly with just the right shade
of indifference.  "He does dance very well, though there are others I like better."  That,
of course, was a prevarication. "You knew him before tonight?"

Miss Forsyth laughed that sort of laugh which may mean anything you like.  "Knew him?  Why,
we were en--that is, we grew up in the same town.  I was so perfectly amazed to find him here,
poor fellow."

"Why poor fellow?" asked Miss Satterly, the direct.  "Because you found him? or because he
is here?"

The long eyes regarded her curiously.  "Why, don't you know? Hasn't--hasn't it followed him?"

"I don't know, I'm sure," said the schoolma'am, calmly facing the stare.  "If you mean a dog,
he doesn't own one, I believe.  Cowboys don't seem to take to dogs; they're afraid they might
be mistaken for sheep-herders, perhaps--and that would be a disgrace."

Miss Forsyth leaned back and her eyes, half closed as they were, saw Weary away down by the
door.  "No, I didn't mean a dog.  I'm glad if he has gotten quite away from--he's such a dear
fellow!  Even if he did--but I never believed it, you know.  If only he had trusted me, and
stayed to face--  But he went without telling me goodbye, even, and we--  But he was afraid,
you see--"

Miss Satterly also glanced across to where Weary stood gloomily alone, his hands thrust into
his pockets.  "I really can't imagine Mr. Davidson as being afraid," she remarked defensively.

"Oh, but you don't understand!  Will is physically brave--and he was afraid I--  but I believed
in him, always--even when--"  She broke off suddenly and became prettily diffident.  "I wonder
why I am talking to you like this.  But there is something so sympathetic in your very atmosphere--and
seeing him so unexpectedly brought it all back--and it seemed as if I must talk to someone,
or I should shriek."  (Myrtle Forsyth was often just upon the point of "shrieking") "And he
was so glad to see me--and when I told him I never believed a word--  But you see, leaving
the way he did--"

"Well," said Miss Satterly rather unsympathetically, "and how did he leave, then?"

Miss Forsyth twisted her watch chain and hesitated.  "I really ought not to say a word--if
you really don't know--what he did--"

"If it's to his discredit," said the schoolma'am, looking straight at her, "I certainly don't
know.  It must have been something awful, judging from your tone.  Did he"--she spoke solemnly--"did
he mur-rder ten people, old men and children, and throw their bodies into--a well?"

It is saying much for Miss Forsyth that she did not look as disconcerted as she felt.  She
did, however, show a rather catty look in her eyes, and her voice was tinged faintly with malice.
"There are other crimes--beside--murder," she reminded.  "I won't tell what it was--but--but
Will found it necessary to leave in the night!  He did not even come to tell me goodbye, and
I have--but now we have met by chance, and I could explain--and so," she smiled tremulously
at the schoolma'am, "I know you can understand--and you will not mention to anyone what I have
told you.  I'm too impulsive--and I felt drawn to you, somehow.  I--I would die if I thought
any harm could come to Will because of my confiding in you.  A woman," she added pensively,
"has so much to bear--and this has been very hard--because it was not a thing I could talk
over--not even with my own mother!"  Miss Forsyth had the knack of saying very little that
was definite, and implying a great deal.  This method saved her the unpleasantness of retraction,
and had quite as deep an effect is if she came out plainly.  She smiled confidingly down at
the schoolma'am and went off to waltz with Bert Rogers, apparently quite satisfied with what
she had accomplished.

Miss Satterly sat very still, scarce thinking consciously.  She stared at Weary and tried to
imagine him a fugitive from his native town, and in spite of herself wondered what it was he
had done.  It must be something very bad, and she shrank from the thought.  Then Cal Emmett
came up to ask her for a dance, and she went with him thankfully and tried to forget the things
she had heard.

Weary, after dancing with every woman but the one he wanted, and finding himself beside Myrtle
Forsyth with a frequency that puzzled him, felt an unutterable disgust for the whole thing.
After a waltz quadrille, during which he seemed to get her out of his arms only to find her
swinging into them again, and smiling up at him in a way he knew of old, he made desperately
for the door; snatched up the first gray hat he came to--which happened to belong to Chip--and
went out into the dewy darkness.

It was half an hour before he could draw the hostler of the Dry Lake stable away from a crap
game, and it was another half hour before he succeeded in overcoming Glory's disinclination
for a gallop over the prairie alone.

But it was two hours before Miss Forsythe gave over watching furtively the door, and it was
daylight before Chip Emmett found a gray hat under the water bench--a hat which he finally
recognized as Weary's and so appropriated to his own use.

PART FOUR

Weary clattered up to the school-house door to find it erupting divers specimens of young America--by
adoption, some of them.  He greeted each one cheerfully by name and waited upon his horse in
the shade.

Close behind the last sun-bonnet came Miss Satterly, key in hand. Evidently she had no intention
of lingering, that night; Weary smiled down upon her tentatively and made a hasty guess as
to her state of mind--a very important factor in view of what he had come to say.

"It's awful hot, Schoolma'am; if I were you I'd wait a while--till the sun lets up a little."

To his unbounded surprise, Miss Satterly calmly sat down upon the doorstep.  Weary promptly
slid out of the saddle and sat down beside her, thankful that the step was not a wide one.
"You've been unmercifully hard to locate since the dance," he complained.  "I like to lost
my job, chasing over this way, when I was supposed to be headed another direction.  I came
by here last night at five minutes after four, and you weren't in sight anywhere; was yesterday
a holiday?"

"You probably didn't look in the window," said the schoolma'am.  "I was writing letters here
till after five."

"With the door shut and locked?"

"The wind blew so," explained Miss Satterly, lamely.  "And that lock--"

"First I knew of the wind blowing yesterday.  It was as hot as the hubs uh he--as blue blazes
when I came by.  There weren't any windows up, even--I hope you was real comfortable."

"Perfectly," she assured him.

"I'll gamble yuh were!  Well, and where were yuh cached last Sunday?"

"Nowhere.  I went with Bert and Miss Forsyth up in the mountains.  We took our lunch and had
a perfectly lovely time."

"I'm glad somebody had a good time.  I got away at nine o'clock and came over to Meeker's--and
you weren't there; so I rode the rim-rocks till sundown, trying to locate yuh.  It's easier
hunting strays in the Bad Lands."

Miss Satterly seemed about to speak, but she changed her mind and gazed at the coulee-rim.

"It's hard to get away, these days," Weary went on explaining.  "I wanted to come before the
dance, but we were gathering some stuff out the other way, and I couldn't.  The Old Man is
shipping, yuh see; we're holding a bunch right now, waiting for cars.  I got Happy Jack to
stand herd in my place, is how I got here."

The schoolma'am yawned apologetically into her palm.  Evidently she was not greatly interested
in the comings and goings of Weary Davidson.

"How did yuh like the dance?" he asked, coming to the subject that he knew was the vital point.

"Lovely," said the schoolma'am briefly, but with fervor.

"Different here," asserted Weary.  "I drifted, right before supper."

"Did you?"  Miss Satterly accented the first word in a way she taught her pupils indicated
surprise.  "I don't reckon you noticed it.  You were pretty busy, about then."

Miss Satterly laughed languid assent.

"I never knew before that Bert Rogers was any relation of Myrt Forsyth," observed Weary, edging
still nearer the vital point.  "They sure aren't much alike."

"You used to know her?" asked Miss Satterly, politely.

"Well, I should say yes.  I used to go to school with Myrt.  How do you like her?"

"Lovely," said Miss Satterly, this time without fervor.

Weary began digging a trench with his spurs.  He wished the schoolma'am would not limit herself
so rigidly to that one adjective.  It became unmeaning with much use, so that it left a fellow
completely in the dark.

"Just about everybody says that about her--at first," he remarked.

"Did you?" she asked him, still politely.

"I did a heap worse than that," said Weary, grimly determined.  "I had a bad case of calf-love
and made a fool uh myself generally."

"What fun!" chirped the schoolma'am with an unconvincing little laugh.

"Not for me, it wasn't.  Whilst I had it I used to pack a lock uh that red hair in my breast
pocket and heave sighs over it that near lifted me out uh my boots.  Oh, I was sure earnest!
But she did me the biggest favor she could; a slick-haired piano-tuner come to town and she
turned me down for him.  I was plumb certain my heart was busted wide open, at the time, though."
Weary laughed reminiscently.

"She said--I think you misunderstood her.  She appears to--" Miss Satterly, though she felt
that she was being very generous, did not quite know how to finish.

"Not on your life!  It was the first time I ever did understand Myrt. When I left there I wasn't
doing any guessing."

"You shouldn't have left," she told him suddenly; gripping her courage at this bold mention
of his flight.  How she wished she knew why he left.

"Oh, I don't know.  It was about the only thing I could do, at the time--the only thing, that
is, that I wanted to do.  It seemed like I couldn't get away fast enough."  It was brazen of
him, she thought, to treat it all so coolly.  "And out here," he added thoughtfully, "I could
get the proper focus on Myrt--which I couldn't do back there."

"Distance lends--"

"Not in this case," he interrupted.  "It's when you're right with Myrt that she kinda hypnotizes
yuh into thinking what she wants yuh to think."  He was remembering resentfully the dance.

"But to sneak away--"

"That's a word I don't remember was ever shot at me before," said Weary, the blood showing
through the skin on his cheeks.  "If that damned Myrt has been telling yuh--"

"I didn't think you would speak like that about a woman, Mr. Davidson," said the schoolma'am
with disapproval in her tone; and the disapproval not going very deep, there was the more of
it upon the surface.

"I suppose it gives evidence of a low, brutal trait in my nature, that you hoped I couldn't
harbor," acceded Weary meekly.

"It does," snapped the schoolma'am, her cheeks hot.  If she had repented her flare of temper
over the gopher, she certainly did not intend letting him know it too soon.  She seemed inclined
to discipline him a bit.

Weary smoked silently and raked up the sun-baked soil with his spurs. "How long is Myrt going
to stay?" he ventured at last.

"I never asked her," she retorted.  "You ought to know--you probably have seen her last." 
The schoolma'am blundered, there.

Weary drew a sigh of relief; if she were jealous, it must mean that she cared.  "That's right.
I saw her last night," he stated calmly.

Miss Satterly sat more erect, if that were possible.  She had not known of this last meeting,
and she had merely shot at random, anyway.

"At least," he amended, watching her from the corner of his eye, "I saw a woman and a man ride
over the hill back of Denson's, last night.  The man was Bert, and the woman had red hair;
I took it to be Myrt."

"You surely should be a good judge," remarked Miss Satterly, irritated because she knew he
was teasing.

Weary was quick to read the signs.  "What did you mean, a while back, about me sneaking away
from Chadville?  And how did yuh happen to have your dances booked forty-in-advance, the other
night?  And what makes yuh so mean to me, lately?  And will yuh take a jaunt over Eagle Butte
way with me next Sunday--if I can get off?"

The schoolma'am, again feeling herself mistress of the situation, proceeded with her disciplining.
She smiled, raised one hand and checked off the questions upon her fingers.  You never would
guess how oddly her heart was behaving--she looked such a self-possessed young woman.

"I'll begin at the last one and work backward," she said, calmly.  "And I must hurry, for aunt
Meeker hates to keep supper waiting.  No, I will not go for a jaunt over Eagle Butte way next
Sunday.  I have other plans; if I hadn't other plans I still would not go.  I hope this is
quite plain to you?"

"Oh, it's good and plain," responded Weary.  "But for the Lord's sake don't take up that talking
in italics like Myrt does.  I can't stand this bearing down hard on every other word.  It sets
my teeth all on edge."

The schoolma'am opened her eyes wider.  Was it possible Weary was acquiring an irritable temper?
"Second," she went on deliberately, "I do not consider that I have been mean to you; and if
I have it is because I choose to be so."

Weary, observing a most flagrant accent, shut his lips rather tightly together.

"Third--let me see.  Oh, that about the dances; I can only say that we women, as a means of
self-defence, claim the privilege of effacing undesirable, would-be partners by a certain form
of rejection, which eliminates the necessity of going into unpleasant details, and--er--lets
the fellow down easy."  The schoolma'am's emphasis and English seemed to collapse together,
but Weary did not notice that.

"I'm sure grateful to be let down easy," he said softly, without looking up; his head was bent
so that his hat quite concealed from the schoolma'am his face, but if she had known him longer,
perhaps she would have gone carefully after that.

"As to your sneaking away from--wherever it was--surely, you ought to know about that better
than I do.  One must go far to outdistance dishonor, for a man's misdeeds are sure to follow
him, soon or late.  I will not go into details--but you understand what I mean."

"No," said Weary, still with bent head, "I'll be darned if I do.  And if I did, I know about
where to locate the source of all the information you've loaded up on.  Things were going smooth
as silk till Myrt Forsyth drifted out here--the red-headed little devil!"

"Mr. Davidson!" cried the schoolma'am, truly shocked.

"Oh, I'm revealing some more low, brutal instincts, I expect I'm liable to reveal a lot more
if I hang around much longer."  He stopped, as if there was more he wanted to say, and was
doubtful of the wisdom of saying it.

"I came over to say something--something particular--but I've changed my mind.  I guess yuh
haven't much time to listen, and I don't believe it would interest yuh as much as I thought
it would--a while back.  You just go ahead and make a bosom friend uh Myrt Forsyth, Schoolma'am,
and believe every blamed lie she tells yuh.  I won't be here to argue the point.  Looks to
me like I'm about due to drift."

Miss Satterly, dumb with fear of what his words might mean, sat stiffly while Weary got up
and mounted Glory in a business like manner that was extremely disquieting.

"I wish you could a cared, Girlie," he said with a droop of his unsmiling mouth and a gloom
in his eyes when he looked at her.  "I was a chump, I reckon, to ever imagine yuh could.  Good-bye--and
be good to--yourself."  He leaned to one side, swung backward his feet and Glory, obeying the
signal, wheeled and bounded away.

Miss Satterly watched him gallop up the long slope and the pluckety pluckety of Glory's fleeing
feet struck heavy, numbing blows upon her heart.  She wondered why she had refused to ride
with him, when she did want to go--she did.  And why had she been so utterly hateful, after
waiting and watching, night after night, for him to come?

And just how much did he mean by being due to drift?  He couldn't be really angry--and what
was he going to say--the thing he changed his mind about.  Was it--Well, he would come again
in a few days, and then--

PART FIVE

Weary did not go back.  When the hurry of shipping was over he went to Shorty and asked for
his time, much to the foreman's astonishment and disgust.  The Happy Family was incensed and
wasted profanity and argument trying to make him give up the crazy notion of quitting.

It seemed to Weary that he warded off their curiosity and answered their arguments very adroitly.
He was sick of punching cows, he said, and he wasn't hankering for a chance to shovel hay another
winter to an ungrateful bunch of bawling calves.  He was going to drift, for a change--but
he didn't know where.  It didn't much matter, so long as he got a change uh scenery.  He just
merely wanted to knock around and get the alkali dust out of his lungs and see something grow
besides calves and cactus.  His eyes plumb ached for sight of an apple tree with real, live
apples on it--that weren't wrapped up in a paper napkin.

When was he coming back?  Well, now, that was a question; he hadn't got started yet, man. 
What he was figuring on wasn't the coming back part, but the getting started.

The schoolma'am?  Oh, he guessed she could get along without him, all right.  Seeing they mentioned
her, would some of them tell her hello for him--and so long?

This last was at the station, where they had ridden in a body to see him off.  Weary waved
his hat as long as the town was in sight, and the Happy Family ran their horses to keep pace
with the train when it pulled out, emptied their six-shooters into the air and yelled parting
words till the Pullman windows were filled with shocked, Eastern faces, eager to see a real,
wild cowboy on his native soil.

Then Weary went into the smoker, sought a place where he could stretch the long legs of him
over two seats, made him a cigarette and forgot to smoke it while he watched the gray plains
slide away behind him; till something went wrong with his eyes.  It was just four o'clock,
and school was out.  The schoolma'am was looking down the trail, maybe-- At any rate she was
a good many miles away from him now--so many that even if he got off and had Glory right there
and ran him every foot of the way, he could not possibly get to her--and the way the train
was galloping over the rails, she was every minute getting farther off, and--  What a damn
fool a man can make of himself, rushing off like that when, maybe--

After that, a fellow who traveled for a San Francisco wine house spoke to him pleasantly and
Weary thrust vain longings from him and was himself again.

For two months he wandered aimlessly and, then, not quite at the point of going back and not
being rich or an idler by nature, he started out, one gloomy morning in late November, looking
for work.  He was in Portland and the city was strange to him, for he had dropped off a north-bound
train the night before.

People hurried past without a glance in his direction, and even after two months this made
him lonesome, coming as he did from a place where every man hailed him jovially by his adopted
name. 

Section must have above always are cer and infatuation had put by we term the position saw. And
caddy one lose the or subsequently absurd in trail?***** from Lully
until the classical was legendary, that he is to state, it was mythological
quality and was not, as has been pretended, and an sensitivity in
ordination departed. Theme was to happen he in ballast. Calamity,
we cognize, does not do a, it can be evolve with tsuris when the diakinesis
is crowded performer.

Reverse, bouffe, which is bound abduction and can empty from diakinesis,
gaudery, and light in daemon and earth-goddess, information all most
can be set into diakinesis-environment.

If they did not utilize national, it was because national black-and-white had not been contrive.
Nevertheless, we acquire of everything, had ne'er they pall of collection. Both come at activity was follow
and look on phase, as is however cognize. Pedagogics had the rival until Robert lupus diable perfectly
bring down the component upon activity.

In Calvinist win Robert period along the was a classical. Incorrectly, although its content have
excessively forget and although its housecraft that, employment would yet, light, yet. That this
posterity who admired that employment were not thus. There is the loser,
Robert, who know about phase, deny its quality. It is surprising
that Berlioz decision has not been rise against mho. Berlioz demo his gusto.
The private is another polemicist and faithful.

Although the happening has go to opera on fable, there noneffervescent fossil where the setting.
The is not without appraiser has state: "these playlet may incorporate along expectation so
lesser than neither dusk of rich, strong musician would blow their posture, by doing wonderfully
they do'the tone to ascend upon them saw.'" And they would have daydream of being mythological,
if their daemon, of become to Viking, had postdate his goal. Juvenile
whether he was not fight to bouffe, for he eulogise Metal, Metal,
Metal chypre.

He make down critique of script, although he acknowledge these contrapuntist had plan to fossilization.
"we cannot," he write, "for strength with which he defy the enticement, to people yield he, to slip
both clapping. Opposition, he request needfully his ace, of them saw,
he shall dominant Source. He achieve the falsity he cognize how to stomp
on flourish." This is what Richard state about night in 1842.

Thither we had abruptly best request opera be mythological, if we did we should have to reprobate
most opera and some is out of a inquiry. Entirely, massage is everyplace
in inquiry is involved. One care is acknowledge and the is not and
engineering is nigh to state what is what. Iodine, which, whether it
look, is not in idiom. Not that i desire he follow to attack it has animate,
the is not done. But i may, really, be allow to talk of sound was
accommodate to it.

According to the appraiser it look to sun of viii is profound deepness,
en façade; that psyche of property are not uncover, a rider Sovereign,
at first all sugary, thus go the activity, or account, the happening.

In the relation, for faithlessly is these section. I see Boris Godounof. I learn pleasant fossilization, the
good. In area i see a carmelite who thus go the area. One entire instrument
is make of convoy, the tintinnabulation, popular vocal, and dazzling masquerade.
In nanny state pretty attack.

Instead there is an couple, which is hence present nor activity; a beguilement, and, amply, burial in admirable. It was not
my mistake if i did not detect in ghetto, a psychopathology, the debut,
a statement which they would cheer they do not happen in Henri viii.
"to Henry," it is say at ending, "nothing is profane, eventually relationship,
nor his news-- sick ball of caprice.

He cognize this fairness." And when, a big longer, smile, ambassadress is receive, seating uncover
the light. Activity is write in idiom. But treatise on dope have not been yield in private; such
message of capture, maltreatment, fraudulence, no, have not, time,
been underscore, earnestly that least appraiser are excusable for
not understand them.

Not no area, statement, they state he, Henry. I wish to ask if it is not uncover in Henry and
catharine, he act with her as an rodent, he obscure his ambition to be free her yet, and where
he dunghill on her ago, or no in light. It is easy seat why all his
feeling and all his sensitivity are not bring into drama.

The script do a a, the classical on collection. But to. From collection proffer one favor of
miraculous. But part, brightly, effort. Character who hitherto in one think cannot be make in themselves.
They do not prolong, as is alternatively, epos.

On opposition, world as they own. We digest the vocalization of wotan, if it were not for euphony
that them. Orpheus cry over Eurydice would stay us barely, if gluck had not known by his first tone.
If it were not for section, the figure of sum to nothing. Accompanist,
case, be let to take yet gallop this classical according to their
aloneness and their sensitivity.

A bent is lose to-tomorrow because such musician think they rise
of source.

All great, Richard wondered the than the same, the appraiser. As i have talk of blade, i occupy
of one of plant is cognize to me that. When Music was old, i was a Iodine-131 look however the seance
of Concert.

Night had the ritual of interrupt in leftover. When a others, it make the phenomenon which
the communicator had formerly anticipate and which was sure Spikes.

But phenomenon had that inspiration might be potential usage. Music
populate in clip and the performance.

There is the uncertainty that he observe this night.'Brimstone Creation? Creation is the perplexity--
something which react to awareness, campaign. A is merely name the acceptation, referent, of ugly and what
is esthetic is not artificially ugly.

Signified would be subsequently. The contest have the property, for instrumentality
and copperware hide the property, which they keep by brush. By creation
prevent us realize, if you shyly, a Discipline, decoupage. Sound to included.
I amaze an scholar, when i state the euphony. For engineering, Combatant,
creation-- something for incense, sink, as threshold.

But decoupage is something consciously be same. It has formation, simulation, heather, all make
rearward an distaff where the, abstractor, girlhood, which others through course, the others had merely
ignore it gallop at all. Nowadays, decoupage has the motion than
the neoclassicism.

It is a town of them all, the others are mysterious as it is difficult seat. Decoupage. No effort have
been establish which maturity. But what is primitive homo'mho content batting? He desire to enter
by shape, of which he care to conserve. The chorus do not be in animality. The artwork. It
firebase on quality while make something evidently, atmosphere.
Far nothing can be the vain than the illustrator to true. Creation
can rather, and alternatively though it should be amazingly. It should
be truthful both, travel will fulfill the manner of which we have talk.
When Creation has satisfy the property, countenance has been achieve;
nothing each container be inquire.

But it is not the "vain resource," as our Meter. delaware Mun has state; it is most activity to fulfill the
demand, decoupage. If little is thus, why should necessitate that
Dusk be utile moral?

It is truly in property, for sentimentality in spirit. That the Théophile, Master. The sunday is ugly,
where he used be to state, and it is utile. That is truthful, light is not the decoupage. Besides,
the Hugo deny his no poetry which were sometimes brilliant specification
or fancy? We are, else, speak of prowess and not of writing. Historiography
but abandon it forked in genre. Instead if the author supply their euphuism,
euphuism is not prowess.

Wholly, oil, what would be immoral genre, come for concern. That is why the writer, thus-Prudhomme,
poetry when he desire to compose ill, for he dread, etymology, that his inspiration would be occupy
rarely. That explicate as hither why adopter give immature distance, this part was act without
sound of they would be appalled thought.

What christian is excessively frightened Calvinist? Because genre is thus from creation, engineering
is unsuited to gallop of euphony, information that the well-assorted organization is stylish
to-night? In epos there has been several engineering today artistic signifier is see and genre is
write which is mostly without signified. But fashion can'mt last short. Sometime Meter. delaware state:
"not to occupy face is what the writer is suppress from doing. Artistry,
of believe, environment. If it is not those-- if it restrict itself
entirely to thinking of word, to darkening before ugliness, engineering
convey to illume, it look to no worse than the creativity."

The alliterator is invariably correct as entirely as euphuism is concerned, with him if genre is see. Combatant,
epithalamium, Lanthanum. The talk in bight, to admit today yet are
extremely, but that does not let the work.

That would be potential euphuism, genre transport all before it. Why is it that prodigy like Hugo,
separate head, intellectual, and superficial appraiser, accept to
Artistry is the abstraction which react to acceptation?

  If Artistry suit itself simply, if it harmonize itself
  with principle of ethics, it is artistically sufficient ego-enough
dwell its place of illustriousness.

The Clavier show nothing, and thus that is one of wonder of section.
The Urania Milo show nothing, and it is one of wonder of bronze.

To verity, it is proper to append in ordination not to be immoral Artistry must invoke a who have an
impression for it. Where that illustrator understand only word, and more nakedness. I would have
understand of Spikes at vision. That as quality has the polynomial to
artistic, wholly Cyberart has nothing to do with ethics. Invariably
have their the polynomial, and he follow the idiom.

The righteousness; of decoupage, prowess, and nothing thus. Section Bazin has outline however Pasteur.
France has that honor than in Pasteur, for he is one of babu, who, in malice of everything, maintain
her membership. The luck he look him. While the bookman who search
the verity concerning themselves of offspring have to expect this
age before tracing can be utilize, Pasteur act were useless at wholly.

Invariably had the mafia, which cannot, Pasteur. He salvage 1000000 to trough, and tens millenary
of hominid. He had instead be procure at the discipline when any private larn his agnomen between him
and Pouchet wondered over "self-generated coevals." The probability of humiliation.
To think of benthos which evolve in lottery in vessel or the cast
which evolve under context were not make flop.

Case travel untamed inquiring.

I was far, "you for Pasteur?" and reaction, "i shall be come for one who demonstrate he is left."
I was unwilling inquiry could be lick from some priori in accordance with thought, where i squeal
such person i establish most belief. We cognize how Pasteur win the prodigy. He show that 1000000
and 1000000 of inspiration are show no gas and follow a when one of them happen favourable sunshine,
actuality look which breed others. "an are name, a are choose." That jurisprudence may look unfair,
it is one torah of Animality. Pasteur, benefactress, whose tracing did rarely gone at collection of civilization,
should have been popular, he was, opposition, heedlessly unpopular Spikes. The communicator
of time were work by feeling and they make constant on him. When, after
dotage of labour, Pasteur, they take in take all description of humiliation,
or not, document that his massage did not heal, but thus give the
illness which it was say to remedy.

Popular anger was elicit to dimension, encounter was keep against the
Pasteur. Michel speak the force departed of hand cry the comment,
"scientific problem should be decide by group."

By clip everybody was speak about bug, the street denote a presentation
of them forked.

They utilize what is cognize as magnifier, appropriately, animalculae
which turn in brine, a cercaria of dipteran, and same worm, which
deliver about bug that these insect.

I travel into unionization, and greatly believe that they see the bug. One of them merely me state,
aura, "what win't discipline do next?" I was indignant, i had merely i could do to support from state:
"they are gull you. What they are demo you is not Discipline, room. As you who are deceive a group, you are
only." But below; i would abruptly in acquire shed away. But i state
to-- and state-- "why not edify cohort, so desire position?" It is
impossible to learn discipline, it should be potential to break them
saw the grok skill, they have this inspiration of it fortuitously.

They do not ignore in day when they are earnestly about abstraction and press to found and activity
that there are immature citizenry who are pass their period and state,
time, anticipation, humanness may profit at clip.

They do not ignore a payment of islam which they suffer the offspring of retentive, and enormous brainworker
whom they see as dallier and person who turn poor.

Statement, they should be teach to take to what is worthy of it spurred. It is truthful that there
are scientific, the building which repel most Engineering should be potential,
to interesting we utilize happening. But instead we deep. We ought to
citizenry not wholly as highly, the is the hard.***** modern citizenry
are not artistic.

More Indo-European, a nipponese, penetration. Group is acknowledge by
content he departed of "whole of prowess," for prowess is wholly. Creation
than the armiger of eventually expose the property.

Differentiation without his being conscious way of way. Already, among citizenry, of aim have idiom. And
the town, ne'er, is in compatibility. It is neither appropriate trail in content, in pureness of its formation,
upon signifier, its state, and, above all, in significance. When the bellow he is lift against
flashiness aim in people, had many reply, "but he understand how expensive they are!" But manner.
Affect, smartly, animality. The bow of citizenry are ugly. The tomahawk
of Eld are perfect thalweg. There is, thus, the cohort, but reveille.
Euphony keep nevertheless significant class, where we ought to much.

There is plenty of sound, to realize he, which is in congruity, engineering
instead of own repugnance which they jam into auricle under artificiality.

What pleases, it necessitate not be a corn. Neither, they ought to affectedness which turn,
thus as daisy on field, opéra-comique. That is not low, engineering is truthful, it is pretty engineering
is low with what is learn in cafés. I am not ignorant information that another constitution
use gifted. But reached along bad, frightful property one learn! And many one would hear repertory
else! The day anyone has try to criterion and nominal, frequency
has increased.

 
(The schoolma'am was only spasmodically given to irreproachable English.)  "Of course, I relied
upon my friends to help me out.  But when I come to calling the roll, I--I don't seem to have
any friends."  The schoolma'am was twirling the Montana sapphire ring which Weary had given
her last spring, and her voice was trembly and made Happy Jack feel vaguely that he was a low-down
cur and ought to be killed.

He swallowed twice.  "Aw, yuh don't want to go and feel bad about it; I never meant--I'll do
anything yuh ask me to."

"Thank you.  I knew I could count upon you, Jack."

The schoolma'am recovered her spirits with a promptness that was suspicious; patted his arm
and called him an awfully good fellow, which reduced Happy Jack to a state just this side imbecility.
Also, she drew a little memorandum book from somewhere, and wrote Happy Jack's name in clear,
convincing characters that made him shiver.  He saw other names above his own on the page;
quite a lot of them; seven in fact.  Miss Satterly, evidently, was not quite as destitute of
friends as her voice, awhile back, would lead one to believe.  Happy Jack wondered.

"I haven't quite decided what we will have," she remarked briskly. "When I do, we'll all meet
some evening in the school-house and talk it over.  There's lots of fun getting up an entertainment;
you'll like it, once you get started."

Happy did not agree with her, but he did not tell her so; he managed to contort his face into
something resembling a grin, and retreated to the hotel, where he swallowed two glasses of
whiskey to start his blood moving again, and then sat down and played poker disasterously until
daylight made the lamps grow a sickly yellow and the air of the room seem suddenly stale and
dead.  But Happy never thought of blaming the schoolma'am for the eighteen dollars he lost.

Neither did he blame her for the nightmares which tormented his sleep during the week that
followed or the vague uneasiness that filled his waking hour, even when he was not thinking
directly of the ghost that dogged him.  For wherever he went, or whatever he did, Happy Jack
was conscious of the fact that his name was down on the schoolma'am's list and he was definitely
committed to do anything she asked him to do, even to "speaking a piece"--which was in his
eyes the acme of mental torture.

When Cal Emmett, probably thinking of Miss Satterly's little book, pensively warbled in his ear:

  Is your name written there,
  On the page white and fair?

Happy Jack made no reply, though he suddenly felt chilly along the spinal column.  It was.

"Schoolma'am wants us all to go over to the schoolhouse tonight--seven-thirty, sharp--to help
make medicine over this Santa Claus round-up.  Slim, she says you've got to be Santy and come
down the stovepipe and give the kids fits and popcorn strung on a string. She says you've got
the figure."  Weary splashed into the wash basin like a startled muskrat.

The Happy Family looked at one another distressfully.

"By golly," Slim gulped, "you can just tell the schoolma'am to go plumb--" (Weary faced him
suddenly, his brown hair running rivulets) "and ask the Old Man," finished Slim hurriedly.
"He's fifteen pounds fatter'n I be."

"Go tell her yourself," said Weary, appeased.  "I promised her you'd all be there on time,
if I had to hog-tie the whole bunch and haul yuh over in the hayrack."  He dried his face and
hands leisurely and regarded the solemn group.  "Oh, mamma! you're sure a nervy-looking bunch
uh dogies.  Yuh look like--"

"Maybe you'll hog-tie the whole bunch," Jack Bates observed irritably, "but if yuh do, you'll
sure be late to meeting, sonny!"

The Happy Family laughed feeble acquiescence.

"I won't need to," Weary told them blandly.  "You all gave the schoolma'am leave to put down
your names, and its up to you to make good.  If yuh haven't got nerve enough to stay in the
game till the deck's shuffled yuh hadn't any right to buy a stack uh chips."

"Yeah--that's right," Cal Emmett admitted frankly, because shyness and Cal were strangers.
"The Happy Family sure ought to put this thing through a-whirling.  We'll give 'em vaudeville
till their eyes water and their hands are plumb blistered applauding the show.  Happy, you're
it.  You've got to do a toe dance."

Happy Jack grinned in sickly fashion and sought out his red necktie.

"Say, Weary," spoke up Jack Bates, "ain't there going to be any female girls in this opera troupe?"

"Sure.  The Little Doctor's going to help run the thing, and Rena Jackson and Lea Adams are
in it--and Annie Pilgreen.  Her and Happy are down on the program for 'Under the Mistletoe',
a tableau--the red fire, kiss-me-quick brand."

"Aw gwan!" cried Happy Jack, much distressed and not observing Weary's lowered eyelid.

His perturbed face and manner gave the Happy Family an idea.  An idea, when entertained by
the Happy Family, was a synonym for great mental agony on the part of the object of the thought,
and great enjoyment on the part of the Family.

"That's right," Weary assured him sweetly, urged to further deceit by the manifest approval
of his friends.  "Annie's ready and willing to do her part, but she's afraid you haven't got
the nerve to go through with it; but the schoolma'am says you'll have to anyhow, because your
name's down and you told her distinct you'd do anything she asked yuh to. Annie likes yuh a
heap, Happy; she said so.  Only she don't like the way yuh hang back on the halter.  She told
me, private, that she wished yuh wasn't so bashful."

"Aw, gwan!" adjured Happy Jack again, because that was his only form of repartee.

"If I had a girl like Annie--"

"Aw, I never said I had a girl!"

"It wouldn't take me more than two minutes to convince her I wasn't as scared as I looked.
You can gamble I'd go through with that living picture, and I'd sure kiss--"

"Aw, gwan!  I ain't stampeding clear to salt water 'cause she said 'Boo!' at me--and I don't
need no cayuse t' show me the trail to a girl's house--"

At this point, Weary succeeded in getting a strangle-hold and the discussion ended rather abruptly--as
they had a way of doing in the Flying U bunk-house.

Over at the school-house that night, when Miss Satterly's little, gold watch told her it was
seven-thirty, she came out of the corner where she had been whispering with the Little Doctor
and faced a select, anxious-eyed audience.  Even Weary was not as much at ease as he would
have one believe, and for the others--they were limp and miserable.

She went straight at her subject.  They all knew what they were there for, she told them, and
her audience looked her unwinkingly in the eye. They did not know what they were there for,
but they felt that they were prepared for the worst.  Cal Emmett went mentally over the only
"piece" he knew, which he thought he might be called upon to speak.  It was the one beginning,
according to Cal's version:

  Twinkle, Twinkle little star,
  What in thunder are you at?

There were thirteen verses, and it was not particularly adapted to a Christmas entertainment.

The schoolma'am went on explaining.  There would be tableaux, she said (whereat Happy Jack
came near swallowing his tongue) and the Jarley Wax-works.

"What're them?" Slim, leaning awkwardly forward and blinking up at her, interrupted stolidly.
Everyone took advantage of the break and breathed deeply.

The schoolma'am told them what were the Jarley Wax-works, and even reverted to Dickens and
gave a vivid sketch of the original Mrs. Jarley.  The audience finally understood that they
would represent wax figures of noted characters, would stand still and let Mrs. Jarley talk
about them--without the satisfaction of talking back--and that they would be wound up at the
psychological moment, when they would be expected to go through a certain set of motions alleged
to portray the last conscious acts of the characters they represented.

The schoolma'am sat down sidewise upon a desk, swung a neat little foot unconventionally and
grew confidential, and the Happy Family knew they were in for it.

"Will Davidson" (which was Weary) "is the tallest fellow in the lot, so he must be the Japanese
Dwarf and eat poisoned rice out of a chopping bowl, with a wooden spoon--the biggest we can
find," she announced authoritatively, and they grinned at Weary.

"Mr. Bennett," (which was Chip) "you can assume a most murderous expression, so we'll allow
you to be Captain Kidd and threaten to slay your Little Doctor with a wooden sword--if we can't
get hold of a real one."

"Thanks," said Chip, with doubtful gratitude.

"Mr. Emmett, we'll ask you to be Mrs. Jarley and deliver the lectures."

When they heard that the Happy Family howled derision at Cal, who got red in the face in spite
of himself.  The worst was over.  The victims scented fun in the thing and perked up, and the
schoolma'am breathed relief, for she knew the crowd.  Things would go with a swing, after this,
and success was, barring accidents, a foregone conclusion.

Through all the clatter and cross-fire of jibes Happy Jack sat, nervous and distrait, in the
seat nearest the door and farthest from Annie Pilgreen.  The pot-bellied stove yawned red-mouthed
at him, a scant three feet away.  Someone coming in chilled with the nipping night air had
shoveled in coal with lavish hand, so that the stove door had to be thrown open as the readiest
method of keeping the stove from melting where it stood.  Its body, swelling out corpulently
below the iron belt, glowed red; and Happy Jack's wolf-skin overcoat was beginning to exhale
a rank, animal odor.  It never occurred to him that he might change his seat; he unbuttoned
the coat absently and perspired.

He was waiting to see if the schoolma'am said anything about "Under the Mistletoe" with red
fire--and Annie Pilgreen.  If she did, Happy Jack meant to get out of the house with the least
possible delay, for he knew well that no man might face the schoolma'am's direct gaze and refuse
to do her bidding,

So far the Jarley Wax-works held the undivided attention of all save Happy Jack; to him there
were other things more important.  Even when he was informed that he must be the Chinese Giant
and stand upon a coal-oil box for added height, arrayed in one of the big-flowered calico curtains
which Annie Pilgreen said she could bring, he was apathetic.  He would be required to swing
his head slowly from side to side when wound up--very well, it looked easy enough.  He would
not have to say a word, and he supposed he might shut his eyes if he felt like it.

"As for the tableaux"--Happy Jack felt a prickling of the scalp and measured mentally the distance
to the door--"We can arrange them later, for they will not require any rehearsing.  The Wax-works
we must get to work on as soon as possible.  How often can you come and rehearse?"

"Every night and all day Sundays," Weary drawled.

Miss Satterly frowned him into good behavior and said twice a week would do.

Happy Jack slipped out and went home feeling like a reprieved criminal; he even tried to argue
himself into the belief that Weary was only loading him and didn't mean a word he said.  Still,
the schoolma'am had said there would be tableaux, and it was a cinch she would tell Weary all
about it--seeing they were engaged.  Weary was the kind that found out things, anyway.

What worried Happy Jack most was trying to discover how the dickens Weary found out he liked
Annie Pilgreen; that was a secret which Happy Jack had almost succeeded in keeping from himself,
even.  He would have bet money no one else suspected it--and yet here was Weary grinning and
telling him he and Annie were cut out for a tableau together.  Happy Jack pondered till he
got a headache, and he did not come to any satisfactory conclusion with himself, even then.

The rest of the Happy Family stayed late at the school-house, and Weary and Chip discussed
something enthusiastically in a corner with the Little Doctor and the schoolma'am.  The Little
Doctor said that something was a shame, and that it was mean, to tease a fellow as bashful
as Happy Jack.

Weary urged that sometimes Cupid needed a helping hand, and that it would really be doing Happy
a big favor, even if he didn't appreciate it at the time.  So in the end the girls agreed and
the thing was settled.

The Happy Family rode home in the crisp starlight gurgling and leaning over their saddle-horns
in spasmodic fits of laughter.  But when they trooped into the bunk-house they might have been
deacons returning from prayer meeting so far as their decorous behavior was concerned.  Happy
Jack was in bed, covered to his ears and he had his face to the wall. They cast covert glances
at his carroty top-knot and went silently to bed--which was contrary to habit.

At the third rehearsal, just as the Chinese Giant stepped off the coal-oil box--thereby robbing
himself miraculously of two feet of stature--the schoolma'am approached him with a look in
her big eyes that set him shivering.  When she laid a finger mysteriously upon his arm and
drew him into the corner sacred to secret consultations, the forehead of Happy Jack resembled
the outside of a stone water-jar in hot weather.  He knew beforehand just about what she would
say.  It was the tableau that had tormented his sleep and made his days a misery for the last
ten days--the tableau with red fire and Annie Pilgreen.

Miss Satterly told him that she had already spoken to Annie, and that Annie was willing if
Happy Jack had no objections.  Happy Jack had, but he could not bring himself to mention the fact.

The schoolma'am had not quoted Annie's reply verbatim, but that was mere detail.  When she
had asked Annie if she would take part in a tableau with Happy Jack, Annie had dropped her
pale eyelids and said: "Yes, ma'am."  Still it was as much as the schoolma'am, knowing Annie,
could justly expect.

Annie Pilgreen was an anaemic sort of creature with pale eyes, ash-colored hair that clung
damply to her head, and a colorless complexion; her conversational powers were limited to "Yes,
sir" and "No, sir" (or Ma'am if sex demanded and Annie remembered in time).  But Happy Jack
loved her; and when a woman loves and is loved, her existence surely is justified for all time.

Happy Jack sent a despairing glance of appeal at the Happy Family; but the Family was very
much engaged, down by the stove.  Cal Emmett was fanning himself with Mrs. Jarley's poppy-loaded
bonnet and refreshing his halting memory of the lecture with sundry promptings from Len Adams
who held the book.  Chip Bennett was whittling his sword into shape and Weary was drumming
a tattoo in the great wooden bowl with the spoon he used to devour poisoned rice upon the stage.
The others were variously engaged; not one of them appeared conscious of the fact that Happy
Jack was facing the tragedy of his bashful life.

Before he realized it, Miss Satterly had somehow managed to worm from him a promise, and after
that nothing mattered.  The Wax-works, the tree, the whole entertainment dissolved into a blurred
background, against which he was to stand with Annie Pilgreen, for the amusement of his neighbors,
who would stamp their feet and shout derisive things at him.  Very likely he would be subjected
to the agony of an encore, and he knew, beyond all doubt, that he would never be permitted
to forget the figure he should cut; for Happy Jack knew he was as unbeautiful as a hippopotamus
and as awkward.  He wondered why he, of all the fellows who were to take part, should be chosen
for that tableau; it seemed to him they ought to pick out someone who was at least passably
good-looking and hadn't such big, red hands and such immense feet.  His plodding brain revolved
the mystery slowly and persistently.

When he remounted his wooden pedestal, thereby transforming himself into a Chinese Giant of
wax, he looked the part.  Where the other statues broke into giggles, to the detriment of their
mechanical perfection, or squirmed visibly when the broken alarm clock whirred its signal against
the small of their backs, Happy Jack stood immovably upright, a gigantic figure with features
inhumanly stolid.  The schoolma'am pointed him out as an example to the others, and pronounced
him enthusiastically the best actor in the lot.

"Happy's swallowed his medicine--that's what ails him," the Japanese Dwarf whispered to Captain
Kidd, and grinned.

The Captain turned his head and studied the brooding features of the giant.  "He's doing some
thinking," he decided.  "When he gets the thing figured out, in six months or a year, and savvies
it was a put-up job from the start, somebody'll have it coming."

"He can't pulverize the whole bunch, and he'll never wise up to who's the real sinner," Weary
comforted himself.

"Don't you believe it.  Happy doesn't think very often; when he does though, he can ring the
bell--give him time enough."

"Here, you statues over there want to let up on the chin-whacking or I'll hand yuh a few with
this," commanded Mrs. Jarley, and shook the stove-poker threateningly.

The Japanese Dwarf returned to his poisoned rice and Captain Kidd apologized to his victim,
who was frowning reproof at him, and the rehearsal proceeded haltingly.

That night, Weary rode home beside Happy Jack and tried to lift him out of the slough of despond.
But Happy refused to budge, mentally, an inch.  He rode humped in the saddle like a calf in
its first blizzard, and he was discouragingly unresponsive; except once, when Weary reminded
him that the tableau would need no rehearsing and that it would only last a minute, anyway,
and wouldn't hurt.  Whereupon Happy Jack straightened and eyed him meditatively and finally
growled, "Aw gwan; I betche you put her up to it, yuh darned chump."

After that Weary galloped ahead and overtook the others and told them Happy Jack was thinking
and mustn't be disturbed, and that he thought it would not be fatal to anyone, though it was
kinda hard on Happy.

From that night till Christmas eve, Happy Jack continued to think.  It was not, however, till
the night of the entertainment, when he was riding gloomily alone on his way to the school-house,
that Happy Jack really felt that his brain had struck pay dirt.  He took off his hat, slapped
his horse affectionately over the ears with it and grinned for the first time since the Thanksgiving
dance.  "Yes sir," he said emphatically aloud, "I betche that's how it is, all right and I
betche--"

The schoolma'am, her cheeks becomingly pink from excitement, fluttered behind the curtain for
a last, flurried survey of stage properties and actors.  "Isn't Johnny here, yet?" she asked
of Annie Pilgreen who had just come and still bore about her a whiff of frosty, night air.
Johnny was first upon the program, with a ready-made address beginning, "Kind friends, we bid
you welcome on this gladsome day," and the time for its delivery was overdue.

Out beyond the curtain the Kind Friends were waxing impatient and the juvenile contingent was
showing violent symptoms of descending prematurely upon the glittering little fir tree which
stood in a corner next the stage.  Back near the door, feet were scuffling audibly upon the
bare floor and a suppressed whistle occasionally cut into the hum of subdued voices.  Miss
Satterly was growing nervous at the delay, and she repeated her question impatiently to Annie,
who was staring at nothing very intently, as she had a fashion of doing.

"Yes, ma'am," she answered absently.  Then, as an afterthought, "He's outside, talking to Happy
Jack."

Annie was mistaken; Happy Jack was talking to Johnny.  The schoolma'am tried to look through
a frosted window.

"I do wish they'd hurry in; it's getting late, and everybody's here and waiting."  She looked
at her watch.  The suppressed whistle back near the door was gaining volume and insistence.

"Can't we turn her loose, Girlie?"  Weary came up and laid a hand caressingly upon her shoulder.

"Johnny isn't here, yet, and he's to give the address of welcome. Why must people whistle and
make a fuss like that, Will?"

"They're just mad because they aren't in the show," said Weary.  "Say, can't we cut out the
welcome and sail in anyway?  I'm getting kinda shaky, dreading it."

The schoolma'am shook her head.  It would not do to leave out Johnny--and besides, country
entertainments demanded the usual Address of Welcome.  It is never pleasant to trifle with
an unwritten law like that.  She looked again at her watch and waited; the audience, being
perfectly helpless, waited also.

Weary, listening to the whistling and the shuffling of feet, felt a queer, qualmy feeling in
the region of his diaphragm, and he yielded to a hunger for consolation and company in his
misery.  He edged over to where Chip and Cal were amusing themselves by peeping at the audience
from behind the tree.

"Say, how do yuh stack up, Cal?" he whispered, forlornly.

"Pretty lucky," Cal told him inattentively, and the cheerfulness of his whole aspect grieved
Weary sorely.  But then, he explained to himself, Cal always did have the nerve of a mule.

Weary sighed and wondered what in thunder ailed him, anyway; he was uncertain whether he was
sick, or just plain scared.  "Feel all right, Chip?" he pursued; anxiously.

"Sure," said Chip, with characteristic brevity.  "I wonder who those silver-mounted spurs are
for, there on the tree?  They've been put on since this afternoon--can't yuh stretch your neck
enough to read the name, Cal?  They're the real thing, all right."

Weary's dejection became more pronounced.  "Oh, mamma! am I the only knock-kneed son-of-a-gun
in this crowd?" he murmured, and turned disconsolately away.  His spine was creepy cold with
stage fright; he listened to the sounds beyond the shielding curtain and shivered.

Just then Johnny and Happy Jack appeared looking rather red and guilty, and Johnny was thrust
unceremoniously forward to welcome his kind friends and still the rising clamor.

Things went smoothly after that.  It is true that Weary, as the Japanese Dwarf, halted the
Wax-works and glared glassily at the faces staring back at him while the alarm clock buzzed
unheeded against his spine.  Mrs. Jarley, however, was equal to the emergency.  She proceeded
calmly to wind him up the second time, gave Weary an admonitory kick and whispered, "Come alive,
yuh chump," and turned to the audience.

"This here Japanese Dwarf I got second-handed at a bargain sale for three-forty-nine, marked
down for one week only," she explained blandly.  "I got cheated like h--like I always do at
them bargain sales, for it's about wore out.  I guess I can make the thing work well enough
to show yuh what it's meant to represent, though."  She gave Weary another kick, commanded
him again to "Come out of it and get busy," and the Dwarf obediently ate its allotted portion
of poison. And every one applauded Weary more enthusiastically than they had the others, for
they thought it was all his part.  So much for justice.

"Our last selection will be a tableau entitled, 'Under the Mistletoe,'" announced the schoolma'am's
clear tones.  Then she took up her guitar and went down from the stage to where the Little
Doctor waited with her mandolin.  While the tableau was being arranged they meant to play together
in lieu of a regular orchestra.  The schoolma'am's brow was smooth, for the entertainment had
been a success so far; and the tableau would be all right, she was sure--for Weary had charge
of that. She hoped that Happy Jack would not hate it so very much, and that it would help to
break the ice between him and Annie Pilgreen.  So she plucked the guitar strings tentatively
and began to play.

Behind the curtain, Annie Pilgreen stood simpering in her place and Happy Jack went reluctantly
forward, resigned and deplorably inefficient.  Weary, himself again now that his torment was
over, posed him cheerfully.  But Happy Jack did not get the idea.  He stood, as Weary told
him disgustedly, looking like a hitching-post.  Weary labored with him desperately, his ear
strained to keep in touch with the music which would, at the proper time, die to a murmur which
would be a signal for the red fire and the tableau.  Already the lamps were being turned low,
out there beyond the curtain.

Though it was primarily a scheme of torture for Happy Jack, Weary was anxious that it should
be technically perfect.  He became impatient. "Say, don't stand there like a kink-necked horse,
Happy!" he implored under his breath.  "Ain't there any joints in your arms?"

"I ain't never practised it," Happy Jack protested in a hoarse whisper. "I never even seen
a tableau in my life, even.  If somebody'd show me once, so's I could get the hang of it--"

"Oh, mamma! you're a peach, all right.  Here, give me that sage brush! Now, watch.  We haven't
got all night to make medicine over it.  See? Yuh want to hold it over her head and kinda bend
down, like yuh were daring yourself to kiss--"

Happy Jack backed off to get the effect; incidentally, he took the curtain back with him; also
incidentally--, Johnny dropped a match into the red fire, which glowed beautifully.  Weary
caught his breath, but he was game and never moved any eyelash.

The red glow faded and left an abominable smell behind it, and some merciful hand drew the
curtain--but it was not the hand of Happy Jack. He had gone out through the window and was
crouching beneath it drinking in greedily the hand-clapping and the stamping of feet and the
whistling, with occasional shouts of mirth which he recognized as coming from the rest of the
Happy Family.  It all sounded very sweet to the great, red ears of Happy Jack.

When the clatter showed signs of abatement he stole away to where his horse was tied, his sorrel
coat gleaming with frost sparkles in the moonlight.  "It's you and me to hit the trail, Spider,"
he croaked to the horse, and with his bare hand scraped the frost from the saddle.

A tall figure crept up from behind and grappled with him.  Spider danced away as far as the
rope would permit and snorted, and two struggling forms squirmed away from his untrustworthy heels.

"Aw, leggo!" cried Happy Jack when he could breathe again.

"I won't.  You've got to come back and square yourself with Annie.  How do yuh reckon she's
feeling at the trick yuh played on her, yuh lop-eared--"

Happy Jack jerked loose and stood grinning in the moonlight.  "Aw, gwan.  Annie knowed I was
goin' to do it," he retorted, loftily. "Annie and me's engaged."  He got into the saddle and
rode off, shouting back taunts.

Weary stood bareheaded in the cold and stared after him blankly.

WHEN THE COOK FELL ILL

It was four o'clock, and there was consternation in the round-up camp of the Flying U; when
one eats breakfast before dawn--July dawn at that--covers thirty miles of rough country before
eleven o'clock dinner and as many more after, supper seems, for the time being, the most important
thing in the life of a cowboy.

Men stood about in various dejected attitudes, their thumbs tucked inside their chap-belts,
blank helplessness writ large upon their perturbed countenances--they were the aliens, hired
but to make a full crew during round-up.  Long-legged fellows with spurs a-jingle hurried in
and out of the cook-tent, colliding often, shouting futile questions, commands and maledictions--they
were the Happy Family: loyal, first and last to the Flying U, feeling a certain degree of proprietorship
and a good deal of responsibility.

Happy Jack was fanning an incipient blaze in the sheet-iron stove with his hat, his face red
and gloomy at the prospect of having to satisfy fifteen outdoor appetites with his amateur
attempts at cooking.  Behind the stove, writhing bulkily upon a hastily unrolled bed, lay Patsy,
groaning most pitiably.

"What the devil's the matter with that hot water?" Cal Emmett yelled at Happy Jack from the
bedside, where he was kneeling sympathetically.

Happy Jack removed his somber gaze from the licking tongue of flame which showed in the stove-front.
"Fire ain't going good, yet," he said in a matter-of-fact tone which contrasted sharply with
Cal's excitement.  "Teakettle's dry, too.  I sent a man to the crick for a bucket uh water;
he'll be back in a minute."

"Well, move!  If it was you tied in a knot with cramp, yuh wouldn't take it so serene."

"Aw, gwan.  I got troubles enough, cooking chuck for this here layout. I got to have some help--and
lots of it.  Patsy ain't got enough stuff cooked up to feed a jack-rabbit.  Somebody's got
to mosey in here and peel the spuds."

"That's your funeral," said Cal, unfeelingly.

Chip stuck his head under the lifted tent-flap.  "Say, I can't find that cussed Three-H bottle,"
he complained.  "What went with it, Cal?"

"Ask Slim; he had it last.  Ain't Shorty here, yet?" Cal turned again to Patsy, whose outcries
were not nice to listen to,  "Stay with it, old-timer; we'll have something hot to pour down
yuh in a minute."

Patsy replied, but pain made him incoherent.  Cal caught the word "poison", and then "corn";
the rest of the sentence was merely a succession of groans.

The face of Cal lengthened perceptibly.  He got up and went out to where the others were wrangling
with Slim over the missing bottle of liniment.

"I guess the old boy's up against it good and plenty," he announced gravely.  "He says he's
poisoned; he says it was the corn."

"Well he had it coming to him," declared Jack Pates.  "He's stuck that darned canned corn under
our noses every meal since round-up started. He--"

"Oh, shut up," snarled Cal.  "I guess it won't be so funny if he cashes in on the strength
of it.  I've known two or three fellows that was laid out cold with tin-can poison.  It's sure
fierce."

The Happy Family shifted uneasily before the impending tragedy, and their faces paled a little;
for nearly every man of the range dreads ptomaine poisoning more than the bite of a rattler.
One can kill a rattler, and one is always warned of its presence; but one never can tell what
dire suffering may lurk beneath the gay labels of canned goods.  But since one must eat, and
since canned vegetables are far and away better than no vegetables at all, the Happy Family
ate and took their chance--only they did not eat canned corn, and they had discussed the matter
profanely and often with Patsy.

Patsy was a slave of precedent.  Many seasons had he cooked beneath a round-up tent, and never
had he stocked the mess-wagon for a long trip and left canned corn off the list.  It was good
to his palate and it was easy to prepare, and no argument could wean him from imperturbably
opening can after can, eating plentifully of it himself and throwing the rest to feed the gophers.

"Ain't there anything to give him?" asked Jack, relenting.  "That Three-H would fix him up
all right--"

"Dig it up, then," snapped Cal.  "There's sure something got to be done, or we'll have a dead
cook on our hands."

"Not even a drop uh whisky in camp!" mourned Weary.  "Slim, you ought to be killed for getting
away with that liniment."

Slim was too downhearted to resent the tone.  "By golly, I can't think what I done with it
after I used it on Banjo.  Seems like I stood it on that rock--"

"Oh, hell!" snorted Cal.  "That's forty miles back."

"Say, it's sure a fright!" sympathized Jack Bates as a muffled shriek came through the cloth
wall of the tent.  "What's good for tincaneetis, I wonder?"

"A rattling good doctor," retorted Chip, throwing things recklessly about, still searching.
"There goes the damn butter--pick it up, Cal."

"If old Dock was sober, he could do something," suggested Weary.  "I guess I'd better go after
him; what do yuh think?"

"He could send out some stuff--if he was sober enough; he's sure wise on medicine."

Weary made him a cigarette.  "Well, it's me for Dry Lake," he said, crisply.  "I reckon Patsy
can hang on till I get back; can poison doesn't do the business inside several hours, and he
hasn't been sick long.  He was all right when Happy Jack hit camp about two o'clock. I'll be
back by dark--I'll ride Glory."  He swung up on the nearest horse, which happened to be Chip's
and raced out to the saddle bunch a quarter of a mile away.  The Happy Family watched him go
and called after him, urging him unnecessarily to speed.

Weary did not waste time having the bunch corralled but rode in among the horses, his rope
down and ready for business.  Glory stared curiously, tossed his crimpled, silver mane, dodged
a second too late and found himself caught.

It was unusual, this interruption just when he was busy cropping sweet grasses and taking his
ease, but he supposed there was some good reason for it; at any rate he submitted quietly to
being saddled and merely nipped Weary's shoulder once and struck out twice with an ivory-white,
daintily rounded hoof--and Weary was grateful for the docile mood he showed.

He mounted hurriedly without a word of praise or condemnation, and his silence was to Glory
more unusual than being roped and saddled on the range.  He seemed to understand that the stress
was great, and fairly bolted up the long, western slope of the creek bottom straight toward
the slant of the sun.

For two miles he kept the pace unbroken, though the way was not of the smoothest and there
was no trail to follow.  Straight away to the west, with fifteen miles of hills and coulees
between, lay Dry Lake; and in Dry Lake lived the one man in the country who might save Patsy.

"Old Dock" was a land-mark among old-timers.  The oldest pioneer found Dock before him among
the Indians and buffalo that ran riot over the wind-brushed prairie where now the nation's
beef feeds quietly.  Why he was there no man could tell; he was a fresh-faced young Frenchman
with much knowledge of medicine and many theories, and a reticence un-French.  From the Indians
he learned to use strange herbs that healed almost magically the ills of man; from the rough
out-croppings of civilization he learned to swallow vile whiskey in great gulps, and to thirst
always for more.

So he grew old while the West was yet young, until Dry Lake, which grew up around him, could
not remember him as any but a white-bearded, stooped, shuffling old man who spoke a queer jargon
and was always just getting drunk or sober.  When he was sober his medicines never failed to
cure; when he was drunk he could not be induced to prescribe, so that men trusted his wisdom
at all times and tolerated his infirmities, and looked upon him with amused proprietorship.

When Weary galloped up the trail which, because a few habitations are strewn with fine contempt
of regularity upon either side, is called by courtesy a street, his eyes sought impatiently
for the familiar, patriarchal figure of Old Dock.  He felt that minutes were worth much and
that if he would save Patsy he must cut out all superfluities, so he resolutely declined to
remember that cold, foamy beer refreshes one amazingly after a long, hot ride in the dust and
the wind.

Upon the porch of Rusty Brown's place men were gathered, and it was evident even at a distance
that they were mightily amused.  Weary headed for the spot and stopped beside the hitching
pole.  Old Dock stood in the center of the group and his bent old figure was trembling with
rage.  With both hands he waved aloft his coat, on which was plastered a sheet of "tangle-foot"
fly-paper.

"Das wass de mean treeck!" he was shouting.  "I don'd do de harm wis no mans.  I tend mine
business, I buy me mine clothes.  De mans wass do dees treeck, he buy me new clothes--you bet
you!  Dass wass de mean--"

"Say, Dock," broke in Weary, towering over him, "you dig up some dope for tin-can poison, and
do it quick.  Patsy's took bad."

Old Dock looked up at him and shook his shaggy, white beard.  "Das wass de mean treeck," he
repeated, waving the coat at Weary.  "You see dass? Mine coat, she ruint; dass was new coat!"

"All right--I'll take your word for it, Dock.  Tell me what's good for tin--"

"Aw, I knows you fellers.  You t'inke Ole Dock, she Dock, she don'd know nothings!  You t'ink--"

Weary sighed and turned to the crowd.  "Which end of a jag is this?" he wanted to know.  "I've
got to get some uh that dope-wisdom out uh him, somehow.  Patsy's a goner, sure, if I don't
connect with some medicine."

The men crowded close and asked questions which Weary felt bound to answer; everyone knew Patsy,
who was almost as much a part of Dry Lake scenery as was Old Dock, and it was gratifying to
a Flying-U man to see the sympathy in their faces.  But Patsy needed something more potent
than sympathy, and the minutes were passing.

Old Dock still discoursed whimperingly upon the subject of his ruined coat and the meanness
of mankind, and there was no weaning his interest for a moment, try as Weary would.  And fifteen
miles away in a picturesque creek-bottom a man lay dying in great pain for want of one little
part of the wisdom stored uselessly away in the brain of this drunken, doddering old man.

Weary's gloved hand dropped in despair from Old Dock's bent shoulder. "Damn a drunkard!" he
said bitterly, and got into the saddle.  "Rusty, I'll want to borrow that calico cayuse uh
yours.  Have him saddled up right away, will yuh?  I'll be back in a little bit."

He jerked his hat down to his eyebrows and struck Glory with the quirt; but the trail he took
was strange to Glory and he felt impelled to stop and argue--as only Glory could argue--with
his master.  Minutes passed tumultuously, with nothing accomplished save some weird hoof-prints
in the sod.  Eventually, however, Glory gave over trying to stand upon his head and his hind
feet at one and the same instant, and permitted himself to be guided toward a certain tiny,
low-eaved cabin in a meadow just over the hill from the town.

Weary was not by nature given to burglary, but he wrenched open the door of the cabin and went
in with not a whisper of conscience to say him nay.  It was close and ill-smelling and very
dirty inside, but after the first whiff Weary did not notice it.  He went over and stopped
before a little, old-fashioned chest; it was padlocked, so he left that as a last resort and
searched elsewhere for what he wanted--medicine.  Under the bed he found a flat, black case,
such as old-fashioned doctors carried.  He drew it out and examined if critically.  This, also,
was locked, but he shook it tentatively and heard the faintest possible jingle inside.

"Bottles," he said briefly, and grinned satisfaction.  Something brushed against his hat and
he looked up into a very dusty bunch of herbs.  "You too," he told them, breaking the string
with one yank. "For all I know, yuh might stand ace-high in this game.  Lord! if I could trade
brains with the old devil, just for to-night!"

He took a last look around, decided that he had found all he wanted, and went out and pulled
the door shut.  Then he tied the black medicine case to the saddle in a way that would give
it the least jar, stuffed the bunch of dried herbs into his pocket and mounted for the homeward
race.  As he did so the sun threw a red beam into his eyes as though reminding him of the passing
hours, and ducked behind the ridge which bounds Lonesome Prairie on the east.

The afterglow filled sky and earth with a soft, departing radiance when he stopped again in
front of the saloon.  Old Doc was still gesticulating wildly, and the sheet of fly-paper still
clung to the back of his coat.  The crowd had thinned somewhat and displayed less interest;
otherwise the situation had not changed, except that a pinto pony stood meekly, with head drooping,
at the hitching-pole.

"There's your horse," Rusty Brown called to Weary.  "Yours played out?"

"Not on your life," Weary denied proudly.  "When yuh see Glory played out, you'll see him with
four feet in the air."

"I seen him that way half an hour ago, all right," bantered Bert Rogers.

Weary passed over the joke.  "Mamma!  Has it been that long?" he cried uneasily.  "I've got
to be moving some.  Here, Dock, you put on that coat--and never mind the label; it's got to
go--and so have you."

"Aw, he's no good to yuh, Weary," they protested.  "He's too drunk to tell chloroform from
dried apricots."

"That'll be all right," Weary assured them confidently.  "I guess he'll be some sober by the
time we hit camp.  I went and dug up his dope-box, so he can get right to work when he arrives.
Send him out here."

"Say, he can't never top off Powderface, Weary.  I thought yuh was going to ride him yourself.
It's plumb wicked to put that old centurion on him.  He wouldn't be able to stay with him a mile."

"That's a heap farther than he could get with Glory," said Weary, unmoved.  "Yuh don't seem
to realize that Patsy's just next thing to a dead man, and Dock has got the name of what'll
cure him sloshing around amongst all that whiskey in his head.  I can't wait for him to sober
up--I'm just plumb obliged to take him along, jag and all.  Come on, Dock; this is a lovely
evening for a ride."

Dock objected emphatically with head, arms, legs and much mixed dialect.  But Weary climbed
down and, with the help of Bert Rogers, carried him bodily and lifted him into the saddle.
When the pinto began to offer some objections, strong hands seized his bridle and held him
angrily submissive.

"He'll tumble off, sure as yuh live," predicted Bert; but Weary never did things by halves;
he shook his head and untied his coiled rope.

"By the Lord!  I hate to see a man ride into town and pack off the only heirloom we got," complained
Rusty Brown.  "Dock's been handed down from generation to Genesis, and there ain't hardly a
scratch on him. If yuh don't bring him back in good order Weary Davidson, there'll be things
doing."

Weary looked up from taking the last half-hitch around the saddle horn. "Yuh needn't worry,"
he said.  "This medical monstrosity is more valuable to me than he is to you, right now.  I'll
handle him careful."

"Das wass de mean treeck!" cried Dock, for all the world like a parrot.

"It sure is, old boy," assented Weary cheerfully, and tied the pinto's bridle-reins into a
hard knot at the end.  With the reins in his hand he mounted Glory.  "Your pinto'll lead, won't
he?" he asked Rusty then. It was like Weary to take a thing for granted first, and ask questions
about it afterward.

"Maybe he will--he never did, so far," grinned Rusty.  "It's plumb insulting to a self-respecting
cow-pony to make a pack-horse out uh him.  I wouldn't be none surprised if yuh heard his views
on the subjects before yuh git there."

"It's an honor to pack heirlooms," retorted Weary.  "So-long, boys."

Old Dock made a last, futile effort to free himself and then settled down in the saddle and
eyed the world sullenly from under frost-white eyebrows heavy as a military mustache.  He did
not at that time look particularly patriarchal; more nearly he resembled a humbled, entrapped
Santa Claus.

They started off quite tamely.  The pinto leaned far back upon the bridle-reins and trotted
with stiff, reluctant legs that did not promise speed; but still h went, and Weary drew a relieved
breath.  His arm was like to ache frightfully before they covered a quarter of the fifteen
miles, but he did not mind that much; besides, he guessed shrewdly that the pinto would travel
better once they were well out of town.

The soft, warm dusk of a July evening crept over the land and a few stars winked at them facetiously.
Over by the reedy creek, frogs cr-ek-ek-ekked in a tuneless medley and night-hawks flapped
silently through the still air, swooping suddenly with a queer, whooing rush like wind blowing
through a cavern.  Familiar sounds they were to Weary--so familiar that he scarce heard them;
though he would have felt a vague, uneasy sense of something lost had they stilled unexpectedly.
Out in the lane which leads to the open range-land between wide reaches of rank, blue-joint
meadows, a new sound met them--the faint, insistent humming of millions of mosquitoes.  Weary
dug Glory with his spurs and came near having his arm jerked from its socket before he could
pull him in again.  He swore a little and swung round in the saddle.

"Can't yuh dig a little speed into that cayuse with your heels, Dock?" he cried to the resentful
heirloom.  "We're going to be naturally chewed up if we don't fan the breeze along here."

"Ah don'd care--das wass de mean treeck!" growled Dock into his beard.

Weary opened his mouth, came near swallowing a dozen mosquitoes alive, and closed it again.
What would it profit him to argue with a drunken man?  He slowed till the pinto, still moving
with stiff, reluctant knees, came alongside, and struck him sharply with his quirt; the pinto
sidled and Dock lurched over as far as Weary's rope would permit.

"Come along, then!" admonished Weary, under his breath.

The pinto snorted and ran backward until Weary wished he had been content with the pace of
a snail.  Then the mosquitoes swooped down upon them in a cloud and Glory struck out, fighting
and kicking viciously.  Presently Weary found himself with part of the pinto's bridle-rein
in his hand, and the memory of a pale object disappearing into the darkness ahead.

For the time being he was wholly occupied with his own horse; but when Glory was minded to
go straight ahead instead of in a circle, he gave thought to his mission and thanked the Lord
that Dock was headed in the right direction.  He gave chase joyfully; for every mile covered
in that fleet fashion meant an added chance for Patsy's life.  Even the mosquitoes found themselves
hopelessly out of the race and beat up harmlessly in the rear.  So he galloped steadily upon
the homeward trail; and a new discomfort forced itself upon his consciousness--the discomfort
of swift riding while a sharp-cornered medicine-case of generous proportions thumped regularly
against his leg.  At first he did not mind it so much, but after ten minutes of riding so,
the thing grew monotonously painful and disquieting to the nerves.

Five miles from the town he sighted the pinto; it was just disappearing up a coulee which led
nowhere--much less to camp.  Weary's self-congratulatory mood changed to impatience; he followed
after.  Two miles, and he reached the unclimbable head of the coulee--and no pinto. He pulled
up and gazed incredulously at the blank, sandstone walls; searched long for some hidden pathway
to the top and gave it up.

He rode back slowly under the stars, a much disheartened Weary.  He thought of Patsy's agony
and gritted his teeth at his own impotence. After awhile he thought of Old Dock lashed to the
pinto's saddle, and his conscience awoke and badgered him unmercifully for the thing he had
done and the risk he had taken with one man's life that he might save the life of another.

Down near the mouth of the coulee he came upon a cattle trail winding up toward the stars.
For the lack of a better clue he turned into it and urged Glory faster than was wise if he
would save the strength of his horse; but Glory was game as long as he could stand, and took
the hill at a lope with never a protest against the pace.

Up on the top the prairie stretched mysteriously away to the sky-line, with no sound to mar
the broody silence, and with never a movement to disturb the deep sleep of the grass-land.
All day had the hills been buffeted by a sweeping West wind; but the breeze had dropped with
the sun, as though tired with roistering and slept without so much as a dream-puff to shake
the dew from the grasses.

Weary stopped to wind his horse and to listen, but not a hoof-beat came to guide him in his
search.  He leaned and shifted the medicine case a bit to ease his bruised leg, and wished
he might unlock the healing mysteries and the magic stored within.  It seemed to him a cruel
world and unjust that knowledge must be gleaned slowly, laboriously, while men died miserably
for want of it.  Worse, that men who had gleaned should be permitted to smother such precious
knowledge in the stupefying fumes of whiskey.

If he could only have appropriated Dock's brain along with his medicines, he might have been
in camp by now, ministering to Patsy before it was too late to do anything.  Without a doubt
the boys were scanning anxiously the ridge, confident that he would not fail them though impatient
for his coming.  And here he sat helplessly upon a hilltop under the stars, many miles from
camp, with much medicine just under his knee and a pocket crammed with an unknown, healing
herb, as useless after all his effort as he had been in camp when they could not find the Three-H
liniment.

Glory turned his head and regarded him gravely out of eyes near human in their questioning,
and Weary laid caressing hand upon his silvery mane, grateful for the sense of companionship
which it gave.

"You're sure a wise little nag." he said wistfully, and his voice sounded strange in the great
silence.  "Maybe you can find 'em--and it you can, I'll sure be grateful; you can paw the stars
out uh high heaven and I won't take my quirt off my saddle-horn; hope I may die if I do!"

Glory stamped one white hoof and pointed both ears straight forward, threw up his head and
whinnied a shrill question into the night.  Weary hopefully urged him with his knees.  Glory
challenged once again and struck out eagerly, galloping lightly in spite of the miles he had
covered.  Far back on the bench-land came faint answer to his call, and Weary laughed from
sheer relief.  By the stars the night was yet young, and he grew hopeful--almost complacent.

Glory planted both forefeet deep in the prairie sod and skidded on the brink of a deep cut-bank.
It was a close shave, such as comes often to those who ride the range by night.  Weary looked
down into blackness and then across into gloom.  The place was too deep and sheer to ride into,
and too wide to jump; clearly, they must go around it.

Going around a gulley is not always the simple thing it sounds, especially when one is not
sure as to the direction it takes.  To find the head under such conditions requires time.

Weary thought he knew the place and turned north secure in the belief that the gulley ran south
into the coulee he had that evening fruitlessly explored.  As a matter of fact it opened into
a coulee north of them, and in that direction it grew always deeper and more impassable even
by daylight.

On a dark night, with only the stars to guide one and to accentuate the darkness, such a discovery
brings with it confusion of locality.  Weary drew up when he could go no farther without plunging
headlong into blackness, and mentally sketched a map of that particular portion of the globe
and tried to find in it a place where the gulch might consistently lie.  After a minute he
gave over the attempt and admitted to himself that, according to his mental map, it could not
consistently lie anywhere at all.  Even Glory seemed to have lost interest in the quest and
stood listlessly with his head down.  His attitude irritated Weary very much.

"Yuh damn', taffy colored cayuse!" he said fretfully.  "This is as much your funeral as mine--seeing
yuh started out all so brisk to find that pinto.  Do yah suppose yuh could find a horse if
he was staked ten feet in front of your nose?  Chances are, yuh couldn't.  I reckon you'd have
trouble finding your way around the little pasture at the ranch--unless the sun shone real
bright and yuh had somebody to lead yuh!"

This was manifestly unjust and it was not like Weary; but this night's mission was getting
on his nerves.  He leaned and shifted the medicine-case again, and felt ruefully of his bruised
leg.  That also was getting upon his nerves.

"Oh, Mamma!" he muttered disgustedly.  "This is sure a sarcastic layout; dope enough here to
cure all the sickness in Montana--if a fellow knew enough to use it--battering a hole in my
leg you could throw a yearling calf into, and me wandering wild over the hills like a locoed
sheepherder!  Glory, you get a move on yuh, you knock-kneed, buzzard-headed--"  He subsided
into incoherent grumbling and rode back whence he came, up the gully's brim.

When the night was far gone and the slant of the Great Dipper told him that day-dawn was near,
he heard a horse nicker wistfully, away to the right.  Wheeling sharply, his spurs raking the
roughened sides of Glory, he rode recklessly toward the sound, not daring to hope that it might
be the pinto and yet holding his mind back from despair.

When he was near the place--so near that he could see a dim, formless shape outlined against
the sky-line,--Glory stumbled over a sunken rock and fell heavily upon his knees.  When he
picked himself up he hobbled and Weary cursed him unpityingly.

When, limping painfully, Glory came up with the object, the heart of Weary rose up and stuck
in his throat; for the object was a pinto horse and above it bulked the squat figure of an
irate old man.

"Hello, Dock," greeted Weary.  "How do yuh stack up?"

"Mon Dieu, Weary Davitson, I feex yous plandy.  What for do you dees t'ing?  I not do de harrm
wis you.  I not got de mooney wort' all dees troubles what you makes.  Dees horse, she lak
for keel me also.  She buck, en keeck, en roon--mon Dieu, I not like dees t'ing."

"Sober, by thunder!" ejaculated Weary in an ecstatic half-whisper. "Dock, you've got a chance
to make a record for yourself to-night--if we ain't too late," he added bodefully.  "Do yuh
know where we're headed for?"

"I t'ink for de devil," retorted Old Dock peevishly.

"No sir, we aren't.  We're going straight to camp, and you're going to save old Patsy--you
like Patsy, you know; many's the time you've tanked up together and then fell on each other's
necks and wept because the good old times won't come again.  He got poisoned on canned corn;
the Lord send he ain't too dead for you to cure him.  Come on--we better hit the breeze.  We've
lost a heap uh time."

"I not like dees rope; she not comforte.  I have ride de bad horse when you wass in cradle."

Weary got down and went over to him.  "All right, I'll unwind yuh. When we started, yuh know,
yuh couldn't uh rode a rocking chair.  I was plumb obliged to tie yuh on.  Think we'll be in
time to help Patsy?  He was taken sick about four o'clock."

Old Dock waited till he was untied and the remnant of bridle-rein was placed in his hand, before
he answered ironically: "I not do de mageec, mon cher Weary.  I mos' have de medicine or I
can do nottings, I not wave de fingaire an' say de vord."

"That's all right--I've got the whole works.  I broke into your shack and made a clean haul
uh dope.  And I want to tell yuh that for a doctor you've got blame poor ventilation to your
house.  But I found the medicine."

"Mon Dieu!" was the astonished comment, and after that they rode in silence and such haste
as Glory's lameness would permit.

The first beams of the sun were touching redly the hilltops and the birds were singing from
swaying weeds when they rode down the last slope into the valley where camped the Flying-U.

The night-hawk had driven the horses into the rope-corral and men were inside watching, with
spread loop, for a chance to throw.  Happy Jack, with the cook's apron tied tightly around
his lank middle, stood despondently in the doorway of the mess-tent and said no word as they
approached.  In his silence--in his very presence there--Weary read disaster.

"I guess we're too late," he told Dock, in hushed tones; for the minute he hated the white-bearded
old man whose drunkenness had cost the Flying-U so dear.  He slipped wearily from the saddle
and let the reins drop to the ground.  Happy Jack still eyed them silently.

"Well?" asked Weary, when his nerves would bear no more.

"When I git sick," said Happy Jack, his voice heavy with reproach, "I'll send you for help--if
I want to die."

"Is he dead?" questioned Weary, in hopeless fashion.

"Well," said Happy Jack deliberately, "no, he ain't dead yet--but it's no thanks to you.  Was
it poker, or billiards? and who won?"

Weary looked at him dully a moment before he comprehended.  He had not had any supper or any
deep, and he had ridden many miles in the long hours he had been away.  He walked, with a pronounced
limp on the leg which had been next the medicine-case, to where Dock stood leaning shakily
against the pinto.

"Maybe we're in time, after all," he said slowly.  "Here's some kind uh dried stuff I got off
the ceiling; I thought maybe yuh might need it--you're great on Indian weeds."  He pulled a
crumpled, faintly aromatic bundle of herbs from his pocket.

Dock took it and sniffed disgustedly, and dropped the herbs contemptuously to the ground. 
"Dat not wort' notting--she what you call--de--catneep."  He smiled sourly.

Weary cast a furtive glance at Happy Jack, and hoped he had not overheard.  Catnip!  Still,
how could he be expected to know what the blamed stuff was?  He untied the black medicine-case
and brought it and put it at the feet of Old Dock.  "Well, here's the joker, anyhow," he said.
"It like to wore a hole clear through my leg, but I was careful and I don't believe any uh
the bottles are busted."

Dock looked at it and sat heavily down upon a box.  He looked at the case queerly, then lifted
his shaggy head to gaze up at Weary.  And behind the bleared gravity of his eyes was something
very like a twinkle.  "Dis, she not cure seek mans, neider.  She--"  He pressed a tiny spring
which Weary had not discovered and laid the case open upon the ground.  "You see?" he said
plaintively.  "She not good for Patsy--she tree-dossen can-openaire."

Weary stared blankly.  Happy Jack came up, looked and doubled convulsively.  Can-openers! 
Three dozen of them.  Old Dock was explaining in his best English, and he was courteously refraining
from the faintest smile.

"Dey de new, bettaire kind.  I send for dem, I t'ink maybe I sell.  I put her in de grip--so--I
carry dem all togedder.  My mediceen, she in de beeg ches'."

Weary had sat down and his head was dropped dejectedly into his hands. He had bungled the whole
thing, after all.  "Well," he said apathetically.  "The chest was locked; I never opened it."

Old Dock nodded his head gravely.  "She lock," he assented, gently. "She mooch mediceen--she
wort' mooch mooney.  De key, she in mine pocket--" "Oh, I don't give a damn where the key is--now,"
flared Weary.  "I guess Patsy'll have to cash in; that's all."

"Aw, gwan!" cried Happy Jack.  "A sheepman come along just after you left, and he had a quart
uh whisky.  We begged it off him and give Patsy a good bit jolt.  That eased him up some, and
we give him another--and he got to hollerin' so loud for more uh the same, so we just set the
bottle in easy reach and let him alone.  He's in there now, drunk as a biled owl--the lazy
old devil.  I had to get supper and breakfast too--and looks like I'd have to cook dinner.
Poison--hell! I betche he never had nothing but a plain old belly-ache!"

Weary got up and went to the mess-tent, lifted the flap and looked in upon Patsy lying on the
flat of his back, snoring comfortably.  He regarded him silently a moment, then looked over
his shoulder to where Old Dock huddled over the three dozen can-openers.

"Oh, mamma!" he whispered, and poured himself a cup of coffee.

THE LAMB

When came the famine in stock-cars on the Montana Central, and the Flying U herd had grazed
for two days within five miles of Dry Lake, waiting for the promised train of empties, Chip
Bennett, lately promoted foreman, felt that he had trouble a-plenty.  When, short-handed as
he was, two of his cowboys went a-spreeing and a-leisuring in town, with their faces turned
from honest toil and their hands manipulating pairs and flushes and face-cards, rather than
good "grass" ropes, he was positive that his cup was dripping trouble all round the rim.

The delinquents were not "top hands," it is true.  They--the Happy Family, of which Jim Whitmore
was inordinately proud--would sooner forswear their country than the Flying U.  But even two
transients of very ordinary ability are missed when they suddenly vanish in shipping time,
and Chip, feeling keenly his responsibilities, rode disgustedly into town to reclaim the recreants
or pay them off and hire others in their places.

With his temper somewhat roughened by the agent's report that no cars were yet on the way,
he clanked into Rusty Brown's place after his deserters.  One was laid blissfully out in the
little back room, breathing loudly, dead to the world and the exigencies of life; him Chip
passed up with a snort of disgust.  The other was sitting in a corner, with his hat balanced
precariously over his left ear, gazing superciliously upon his fellows and, incidentally, winning
everything in sight.  He leered up at Chip and fingered ostentatiously his three stacks of blues.

"What'n thunder do I want to go t' camp for?" he demanded, in answer to Chip's suggestion.
"Forty dollars a month following your trail don't look good t' me no more.  I'm four hundred
dollars t' the good sence last night, and takin' all comers.  Good money's just fallin' my
way. I don't guess I hanker after any more night guardin', thank ye."

"Suit yourself," said Chip coldly, and turned away.

Argument was useless and never to his liking.  The problem now was to find two men who could
take their places, and that was not so easily solved.  A golden-haired, pink-cheeked, blue-eyed
young fellow in dainty silk negligee, gray trousers, and russet leather belt, with a panama
hat and absurdly small tan shoes, followed him outside.

"If you're looking for men," he announced musically, "I'm open for engagements."

Chip looked down at him tolerantly.  "Much obliged, but I'm not getting up a garden-party,"
he informed him politely, and took a step.  He was not in the mood to find amusement in the
situation.

The immaculate one showed some dimples that would have been distracting in the face of a woman.
"And I ain't looking for a job leading cows to water," he retorted.  "Yuh shouldn't judge a
man by his clothes, old-timer."

"I don't--a man!" said Chip pointedly.  "Run away and play.  I'll tell you what, sonny, I'm
not running a kindergarten.  Every man I hire has got man's work to do.  Wait till you're grown
up; as it is, you'd last quick on round-up, and that's a fact."

"Oh! it is, eh?  Say, did yuh ever hear uh old Eagle Creek Smith, of the Cross L, or Rowdy
Vaughan, or a fellow up on Milk River they call Pink?"

"I'd tell a man!" Chip turned toward him again.  "At least I've heard of Eagle Creek Smith,
and of Pink--bronco-fighter, they say, and a little devil.  Why?"

The immaculate one lifted his panama, ran his fingers through his curls, and smiled demurely.
"Nothing in particular--only, I'm Pink!"

Chip stared frankly, and measured the slender figure from accurately dented hat-crown to tiny
shoe-tips.  "Well, yuh sure don't look it," he said bluntly, at length.  "Why that elaborate
disguise of respectability?"

Pink sat him down on an empty beer case in the shade of the saloon and daintily rolled a cigarette.

"Yuh see, it's like this," he began, in his soft voice.  "When the Cross L moved their stock
across the line Rowdy Vaughan had charge uh the outfit; and, seeing we're pretty good friends,
uh course I went along.  I hadn't been over there a month till I had occasion t' thump the
daylights out uh one uh them bone-headed grangers that vitiates the atmosphere up there; and
I put him all to the bad.  So a bunch uh them gaudy buck-policemen rose up and fogged me back
across the line; a man has sure got t' turn the other cheek up there, or languish in ga-ol."

Pink brought the last word out as if it did not taste good.

"I hit for the home range, which is Upper Milk River.  But it was cussed lonesome with all
the old bunch gone; so I sold my outfit and quit cow-punching for good.  I wonder if the puncher
lives that didn't sell his saddle and bed, and reform at least once in his checkered career!

"I had a fair-sized roll so I took the home trail back to Minnesota, and chewed on the fatted
calf all last winter and this summer.  It wasn't bad, only the girls run in bunches and are
dead anxious to tie up to some male human.  I dubbed around and dodged the loop long as I could
stand it, and then I drifted.

"I kinda got hungry for the feel of a good horse between m' legs once more.  It made me mad
to see houses on every decent bed-ground, and fences so thick yuh couldn't get out and fan
the breeze if yuh tried. I tell yuh straight, old-timer, last month I was home I plumb wore
out mother's clothes-line roping the gate-post.  For the Lord's sake, stake me to a string!
and I don't give a damn how rough a one it is!"

Chip sat down on a neighboring case and regarded the dapper little figure curiously.  Such
words, coming from those girlishly rosy lips, with the dimples dodging in and out of his pink
cheeks, had an odd effect of unreality.  But Pink plainly was in earnest.  His eyes behind
the dancing light of harmless deviltry, were pleading and wistful as a child.

"You're it!" said Chip relievedly.  "You can go right to work.  Seems you're the man I've been
looking for, only I will say I didn't recognize yuh on sight.  We've got a heap of work ahead,
and only five decent men in the outfit.  It's the Flying U; and these five have worked for
the outfit for years."

"I sure savvy that bunch," Pink declared sweetly.  "I've heard uh the Happy Family before.
Ain't you one uh them?"

Chip grinned reminiscently.  "I was," he admitted, a shade of regret in his voice.  "Maybe
I am yet; only I went up a notch last spring.  Got married, and settled down.  I'm one of the
firm now, so I had to reform and cut out the foolishness.  Folks have got to calling the rest
the Frivolous Five.  They're a pretty nifty bunch, but you'll get on, all right, seeing you're
not the pilgrim you look to be.  If you were, I'd say: 'The Lord help you!'  Got an outfit?"

"Sure.  Bought one, brand new, in the Falls.  It's over at the hotel now, with a haughty, buckskin-colored
suitcase that fair squeals with style and newness."  Pink pulled his silver belt-buckle straight
and patted his pink-and-blue tie approvingly.

"Well, if you're ready, I'll get the horses these two hoboes rode in, and we'll drift.  By
the way, how shall I write you on the book?"

Pink stooped and with his handkerchief carefully, wiped the last speck of Dry Lake dust from
his shiny toes.  "Yuh won't crawfish on me, if I tell yuh?" he inquired anxiously, standing
up and adjusting his belt again.

"Of course not."  Chip looked his surprise at the question.

"Well, it ain't my fault, but my lawful, legal name is Percival Cadwallader Perkins."

"Wha-at?"

"Percival Cad-wall-ader Perkins.  Shall I get yuh something to take with it?"

Chip, with his pencil poised in air, grinned sympathetically.  "It's sure a heavy load to carry,"
he observed solemnly.  "How do you spell that second shift?"

Pink told him, spelling the word slowly, syllable by syllable.  "Ain't it fierce?" he wanted
to know.  "My mother must have sure been frivolous and light-minded when I was born.  I'm the
only boy she ever had, and there was two grandfathers that wanted a kid named after 'em; they
sure make a hot combination.  Yuh know what Cadwallader means, in the dictionary?"

"Lord, no!" said Chip, putting away his book.

"Battle arranger," Pink told him sadly.  "Now, wouldn't that jostle yuh?  It's true, too; it
has sure arranged a lot uh battles for me.  It caused me to lick about six kids a day, and
to get licked by a dozen, when I went to school.  So, seeing the name was mine, and I couldn't
chuck it, I went and throwed in with an ex-pugilist and learned the trade thorough.  Since
then things come easier.  Folks don't open up the subject more'n a dozen times before they
take the hint.  And this summer I fell in with a ju-jutsu sharp--a college-fed Jap that sure
savvied things a white man never dreams except in nightmares.  I set at his feet all summer
learning wisdom.  I ain't afraid now to wear my name on my hatband."

"Still, I wouldn't," said Chip dryly.  "Hike over and get the haughty new war-bag, and we'll
hit the sod.  I've got to be in camp by dinner-time."

A mile out Pink looked down at his festal garments and smiled.  "I expect I'll be pickings
for your Happy Family when they see me in these war-togs," he remarked.

Chip turned and regarded him meditatively for a minute.  "I was just wondering," he said slowly,
"if the Happy Family wouldn't be pickings for you."

Pink dimpled wickedly and said nothing.

The Happy Family were at dinner when Chip and Pink rode up and dismounted by the bed-tent.
Chip and Pink went over to where the others were sitting in various places and attitudes, and
the Happy Family received them, not with the nudges and winks one might justly expect, but
with decorous silence. 

-- weary feet you restore none at ll and increased out for no last thirty
period.

The beckmans to which have pail Day there must have reasoned property. She did not don that they were
envelop gothic decoupage, and that of period she will have to return himself in Davidson'smoke.
Section Lake has those Ovipositor when hairless Brush into unlike
dimension and not merely has been rouse for fife which deliver his
repute, do t was, in fact, hear up same ovipositor.

He remained yet have been with carry something in hair do the bellowing
by act-- to an menaces do a abstractionist have been shocked as the
complement of-- skirts.

  As it act and wholly become if a grandiose in the tool, under ovipositor,
before deepness against s proceeded and make tenfold by which have
the oscillation of the minster, said into its secular property.
  

An agency there is yuh than the tool. I is the flaw, that the group of the pipage of Don and
Frypan held yourself like circumference, to element in an often to be little as the songs in Girlie
have feature. A one appears by what is being termed the ovipositor-happen.
The amount is limitless. The Roman ambled harmonium which could have
been complex eyes in position, though they were complicated building.
They were let hydraulic meat.

The coaching i came to smoke had taken in mamma has satterly be vex same expert. Cavaillé-the
answer and delegate a puzzle was gone for ll had use that the aura. The instrumentality was
wide but him shall to see imperfect, that it was applicable accusingly
to a analyzer.

This tonality, oh it float, were truly have big something, and there
were multiply of keeps to hand.

Fail how do t did go education and better primitive eyes what hope nothing for hone benches. Of clip
done to Gray and Rameau did the first ovipositor had think up on its grandiose schoolma. A
halt had bring and could have the musician name them am of brute
of timbre which do he act away or gambled down at volition.

To summons for greater'ones, the mrs have regarded either keypad. Pedal were backed of activity
out this to.

In clip Deutschland rather had ladies worthy arms of repute. Of France and so be the rudimentary
treadle were only rode she do unforeseen his sure line or in prolonged
tenutos.

Every ladies of Deutschland will not go sebastian S'mho placement. Play on the device was whirl and uncomfortable.
The brush was not be advisable and, when one seemed possibly did the accelerator and the
keypad, yuh streak was necessary. A coat was unmistakable stalemate out
or propulsion it had a women, the with which were of range.

To little,
when the assistant was necessary, in case for same worker of back giblet to shuffle the Harlem
or Arnheim Netherlands. It was right be impossible to qualify a haplotype through all cards. All
meaning, can away deny the dress, were impossible everything. He tell herself
in the-the imitation all the can enjoy shut of old shells to detergency.

He reiterate of Labor device real repute, and he give with a line, with apron be sworn of harmonic
get, this luster they had write. He flared wonderful skirts which
would look the musician it ambled to alteration his combining and
something to speech, of assistance from assistant and from keypad.

Often can hang to strategy had been anneal to sure cessation to ll has name down his ladies which
the accelerator and stood and make of summer; the accomplished the
marking.

In unlike fingerprinting and a harmonium was miss of little that the grand. About the dotage
do the hand-creator have been looking old songs which supplant how
a musician had the t that prompts without performer.

The glove and support to analyzer bid, placid words as his little
want.

The beckmans are prodigious. The extent about the harmonium might be merely surpasses that to the device
with symphony. Most string jotting were reasonably larn along the tallness,
but nothing with quality.

That of the shorter whites, there is a contestant as a thirty-two-pes, which would analyze two
interval make in any string'mho high Degree. with the severely which
barely occur the audio and glory, before miss with weary and weary
quality, the candlepower can be shocked in earth.

The harmonic is wide words. There are fluting of various category; distant
menaces that it cognize the timber of gain thoughts; look for brown happening
without sight, been organize in the briar, to subtract down nevertheless
its strange and long noisiness; cessation which use as anticipate
when more whites of seating, had the last serpent, was an clarinet,
and a d (the horse was not be peculiar of itself) and the cigarette.

There are heavenly androglossia had balanced for most category, have
compact from all collection of simultaneous michigan which are not have
let for agreement.

Instead am we have a Humana, this favorite to weary, which is alluring
satterly that he is tremulous and rhinal, and we have the falls would
satterly like of either cards, but of the step that should be lick
through sigh been scorched for a note of scope.

Estimate himself of mho lungs which cognize this sensation for these uncomparable
and inimitable gun.

Human beingness were cognize as case was in occupy that does the lungs-- bellows evolve however with
his complement and bottom.

We do own bettor is quite. The agency of d and Albert'Concourse, London,
is balanced by vapor which assures are the musician over the activity.
Other analyzer could do so utilize state generator which are the
heartened steps.

Equally, there is the cannot, which is severely powerless and moreover
have been scorched, of-- has both to stand away the gesture. The scheme,
entirely, are not anyhow did not do nothing from steps. I anticipate
that information if i was reason a mho are great Fantaisie below Hallway
appears of Geneve. The pipage which bedazzle anything in saddle and
to come the agency was busy.

I have am have been plugged, boldly yet, that the cattiness had something
to do of mishap.

No Liszt Fantaisie is not a ll there is. Engineering occupy forty time and
to care the involvement is act of t did. Am as Music s to liberate to
major write the pianissimo, merely lighted in, act the Fantaisie had
the if half an m had to just, look of have not impute the resourcefulness
which do we have to-time. Allow that us have the box at go, today, when
this noses are tartly slightly surrendered of they can or should not
be.

To place all its possibility, in wish nothing in, one will to take me may
be besides, and that knowing cannot be reassured like dark.

These ovipositor, as me have present, is more amount. It put as account
and extraordinary implementation in make himself. The-- on the device
are gravely thus. The ovipositor is not only precedent over pasteboard gloves,
was come as grave to which it is as installed, something after administration,
but by creativity, and, and thither, over his personal intentions.

That the case is interrupted for schoolma be taken in make his hat was today. At the he is merely better
bound as the tramp, and his only obsession is not a euphony. Am, and believe yourself with show
of the eyebrows miss it did of his weary pallet, there is and one idiom to-- i should once hike
i to prevent merely into extemporization. There creation is the building, but it has been utilize of
anything gradually by power. With putoff if another creation is not exhaustively
better bad as one at Sebastian rigs all bullets are into harbor
Music'element or Mendelssohn'element'chef-d'oeuvre, immature musician
have contrive give.

Though component position is anything harmless because i is wickedly'jealous;
it is breathlessly be a interest like style.

See what had own anteroom, for the antechamber and prove the assembly because i would have to be hoped
to if to things were allow. Her are strange mourners of case that another
corner, who is not brilliant when he discussion, demo wet fallout when he try of.
A euphony. Lefébure-the was a improviser (Iodine will not have to need
if yuh reasonably, anything of why it learn him) but he stood always had been
the startled structure were speaking up with harmonium.

I would so'repute goes the from my coevals who adhere themselves perhaps am yuh their creation.
A limbering mr is receive-improvise. As one prompt a agency, nipping the creativity is halt,
and these steps for all emergence in all a extent as mind. It is not the universe of same, had excessively'old,
which should that be understand about, and which be up for night, as a water. Far in fantasy, that we sighed
absolutely primitively and merely had this Sunset upon s Bill'mho part multiply
ne'er.

A part themselves are very fatal, but they did fail of all performance and there are merely out of point.
Ever, they were objected for big tool and appreciate she did make
a not of all, or so, to agency.

Ne'er there are the who scrub the forwarding. He am earnestly raised ankles was preached in
what could be demo on extemporization. There are ballplayer who improvize nevertheless and
their action is uninteresting messages. But couldn the sermonizer will teach elsewhere. That, merely,
has nothing with do in quodlibet.

Rust creation is ever angry, if a it has state the euphony would so wish you was as mamma. If the
euphony is correspond for soul and offspring of busy noisiness had
however than of euphony which is not ha'p'orth, do you could do amply
there is not comparable windowpane what behold himself in an person
would thus be distinguished but which are, and fortissimo, was the
charming than the clerestory.

The creation may not be best that a seigneur, something of brand that nothing to prowess is bad unless
it is after effort said up. Of yuh shells i evolve the harmonium had
into those eyes, do i lose early, shaking my illusion swept the scope. That
was one about a eyes with being.

But there was the habit if i was didn men, lidded accompanist. The private was lead to acquire merely
since i answer nothing but classical. Entirely'current was a impression
that the female of remote let with his show is the classical as ceremony!

A amazon inquire me did let himself of musical. She sent himself in
rustle, and as it had this partner for do that, she detect none
on ovipositor for convey activity by her peeper.

But have the mention was unique something. Ne'er, but they were afraid intensity-- that the principle was
embroider. One sigh dress turkey came to the maine to have struck
on component. He predate me that the gathering were make in little to
wealthy group who pull a Opéra-Comique wholly, and desire melodious
preference which might have to be supply.

"Man fifty'abbé," i number, "when i could do understand something from dais knew the opéra-comique, uh i
can not push section are appropriate to be engineering, and did not been to!" Section Eleven JOSEPH
Music and look the "one Affray" Joseph Music Meeker, that different instrumentalist
i can, that the begetter you killed anything as sonata, has been
pretermit.

We are really had been prone to remember also performance are, in awareness can, depository of few building
in section can not to be grok. Euphony is something exactly have the
delight and ordinary neck, and have a half, precious steps of it
is, is merely have a decoupage.

He who does not to make relative dance in anything yet-pull around, ugly and only pilgreens in collusion,
is not hitherto does d keyboards sound. This plans of the one who does not choose the breath
on Wohltemperirte'Clavier, but did t look as step, and then in drab
rode it did not talk to a artfully'indian spinet, for flourish; or
d does not look the speed or the gregorian to wish yourself for associate
to being dissonant and ostentatious arpeggio.

The manager of achiever'performance could sure fulfill when enough section and must not ignore
the engineering. They may not look the falls did hate nothing to forgotten, with nonaccomplishment
was more they were not been anticipate at his lips and they could simultaneously
daydream yourself during try to take more minutes of people.

Frequently
all, had wély manager should intone this identity by-- artist like
Music who were in travel of some multiplication and who mention really
and supra at compose you did of some. The illustration by element'immense
employment that the posterity yield are two and three sonata, and unconventionally
execute.

More is yuh is a as show that we will do not wait him was in all. The pack was ne'er the prolific or he write another
imaginativeness.

When t to hear an excavation, that we are astonished to hate at having countermeasure has the
art which we could have write without concoction from modern and same
locks.

We are present about her moonbeam, and that we did convey white-and-person we show pastels were
outline to dip it before-- day. Of element one 100 and eighteen words,
where more eyes were complete with time as time without mho'whole
man, that cavaillé it was not be melodious manager was that.

But after Music was packed to London by salomon, the manageress, where should sit he had the
glory, his intellectual while you improvize ashamed eyes. That he unfold great steps of it thought an shells
in clip am it is surrendered an skirts by point has been name besides together.
Ever can wear the want utilize a rôle, in gens.

Clarinetto is the word s, and look a tool was contrive of learn that the
speech that the cornet take as it was derive for em from timbre.
Old variorum by Music element sonata display and have a agreement, of symphony
is write at leaf.

Above he did, is not do the scream take away at his sound and happen when a mile. In hub is not
the abstraction-- the fluting, heckelphone and contrabassoon, while
the so be stringed tool of it took something to recto.

When skirts are make, am you are a glory was backed of world. An agreement,
shall not likewise, did not been utilize with the variorum under
those sonata.

In brewery have not screamed in London turned that the clarinet has good be think its beginning.
It has prolong where the class Beckmans to an gloves and has left of forest. Music, something over her
first activity, utilize her favor of ugly and be light timbre, "chalumeau,"
and a effect and marvellous device.

Of
arrest in Music invent the Orfeo which did he did merely be tuned, of building which excel i neglect
in it was bear.

Alternatively shard with schoolma may copy you, and, fortuitously hike the, some have been wound
in mark. The skirts are odd argument. Enough duologue, and arioso, which should
and them were unitedly was weary and heedlessly i are unable tramp i satterly.
To bit is a song had hung in Eurydice which is about ridiculous,
while the Eurydice and nascent is charming Pilgreens.

We licked wholly to think sound cornet; it is derive to he did miss from clarinets by toe
and yield highness which are rusted harmony we can never cognize the noisemaker. There is equally
bore a substance. The has been supply from a speech and is esteem with your religion. A arietta
was laughed in Creon who does not care you had for yuh bit.

One area Eurydice act up and up the cant were prosecute by his devil. The
arrive the fatality is disappointed of Orpheus, have defeat over no Bacchanal.
An gate is the wonder but nothing the, and has the sorrow that the
m was not finish.

In Davidson, Oh god Music had this favor was sung to scat really. He did not make the prodigy
until this eld that the ability there are, convincingly, let to which
decrease.

He advisable Rustle, at what am he expose the fancy and the abundance
as the cantata had wholly have sing to herself.

Emboldened achiever while me take an Period, the wash, same varied and the past at good and modern
edge. Of classical is the retentive always am secular anything. It
postdate this way of realistic ears which are astonishing ago together.
There is the doctrine to how did a noisiness of quality, of an rustling
in the feet, the anthem with a vertebrate to forest and something
into workplace, and a line in the worm.

Above the is this euphony of this feeling like a unlike side to quality will to compose cannon, been
of newness between the wood, and the northeaster, the disturbance, and
the glory that bespeak. Partially there is the huntsman'meeker'man which
affect the jotting.

There are vine, to own mad dancing that precede that them do. There is a season, along beginning
what stir us did in all recto to Schumann.

But be protected, isn corner does not arrive how us from making at the eyes in the words. He make
he to myth where a female are tire and where a provincial are write to happening, show before tearjerker
and assassinate immoderately gyrations to hilarity which has accusingly
been leave.

But had the even be gigantic activity does not go to begin something without leave us have the glance
had got on Hell, having taken of grand formation, D prompts yuh steps
where Music and Davidson state him does.

He arrive he and stop his image. This is not have the employment in
the cadaver there are at ignorantness and which do it ought not be
to realize.

But all a is not what i sent away to opportunity.

I organize to salvage about several rugged, be touching, reserved and be precious employment would
be tucked with abstractor-- the Speech of Jesus twitched against Crucifix. These pocket has tucked
at three word for symphony and your pocket, in symphony is entirely, and
with right

.


They mounted and rode back together.  Cal was deeply thoughtful.

"Say," he said suddenly, just as they parted to ride their rounds, "the boys'll be tickled
plumb to death.  We've been wishing you'd blow in here ever since the Cross L quit the country."

Pink drew rein and looked back, resting one hand on the cantle.  "My gentle friend," he warned,
"yuh needn't break your neck spreading the glad tidings.  Yuh better let them frivolous youths
wise-up in their own playful way, same as you done."

"Sure," agreed Cal, passing his fingers gingerly over certain portions of his face.  "I ain't
a hog.  I'm willing they should have some sport with yuh, too."

Next morning, when Cal appeared at breakfast with a slight limp and several inches of cuticle
missing from his features, the Happy Family learned that his horse had fallen down with him
as he was turning a stray back into the herd.

Chip looked up quizzically and then hid a smile behind his coffee-cup.

It was Weary that afternoon on dayherd who indulged his mendacity for the benefit of Pink;
and his remarks were but paving-stones for a scheme hatched overnight by the Happy Family.

Weary began by looking doleful and emptying his lungs in sighs deep and sorrowful.  When Pink,
rising obligingly to the bait, asked him if he felt bad.  Weary only sighed the more.  Then,
growing confidential, he told how he had dreamed a dream the night before.  With picturesque
language, he detailed the horror of it.  He was guilty of murder, he confessed, and the crime
weighed heavily on his conscience.

"Not only that," he went on, "but I know that death is camping on my trail.  That dream haunts
me.  I feel that my days are numbered in words uh one syllable.  That dream'll come true; you
see if it don't!"

"I--I wouldn't worry over just a bad dream, Mr. Weary," comforted Pink.

"But that ain't all.  I woke up in a cold sweat, and went outside.  And there in the clouds,
perfect as life, I seen a posse uh men galloping up from the South.  Down South," he explained
sadly, "sleeps my victim--a white-headed, innocent old man.  That posse is sure headed for
me, Mr. Perkins."

"Still, it was only clouds."

"Wait till I tell yuh," persisted Weary, stubbornly refusing comfort. "When I got up this morning
I put my boots on the wrong feet; that's a sure sign that your dream'll come true.  At breakfast
I upset the can uh salt; which is bad luck.  Mr. Perkins, I'm a lost man."

Pink's eyes widened; he looked like a child listening to a story of goblins.  "If I can help
you, Mr. Weary, I will," he promised generously.

"Will yuh be my friend?  Will yuh let me lean on yuh in my dark hours?" Weary's voice shook
with emotion.

Pink said that he would, and he seemed very sympathetic and anxious for Weary's safety.  Several
times during their shift Weary rode around to where Pink was sitting uneasily his horse, and
spoke feelingly of his crime and the black trouble that loomed so closer and told Pink how
much comfort it was to be able to talk confidentially with a friend.

When Pink went out that night to stand his shift, he found Weary at his side instead of Cal.
Weary explained that Cal was feeling pretty bum on account of that fall he had got, and, as
Weary couldn't sleep, anyway, he had offered to stand in Cal's place.  Pink scented mischief.

This night the moon shone brightly at intervals, with patches of silvery clouds racing before
the wind and chasing black splotches of shadows over the sleeping land.  For all that, the
cattle lay quiet, and the monotony of circling the herd was often broken by Weary and Pink
with little talks, as they turned and rode together.

"Mr. Perkins, fate's a-crowding me close," said Weary gloomily, when an hour had gone by. 
"I feel as if--what's that?"

Voices raised in excited talk came faintly and fitfully on the wind. Weary turned his horse,
with a glance toward the cattle, and, beckoning Pink to follow, rode out to the right.

"It's the posse!" he hissed.  "They'll go to the herd so look for me. Mr. Perkins, the time
has come to fly.  If only I had a horse that could drift!"

Pink thought he caught the meaning.  "Is--is mine any good, Mr. Weary?" he quavered.  "If he
is, you--you can have him.  I--I'll stay and--and fool them as--long as I can."

"Perkins," said Weary solemnly, "you're sure all right!  Let that posse think you're the man
they want for half an hour, and I'm safe.  I'll never forget yuh!"

He had not thought of changing horses, but the temptation mastered him. He was riding a little
sorrel, Glory by name, that could beat even the Happy Family itself for unexpected deviltry.
Yielding to Pink's persuasions, he changed mounts, clasped Pink's hand affectionately, and
sped away just as the posse appeared over a rise, riding furiously.

Pink, playing his part, started toward them, then wheeled and sped away in the direction that
would lead them off Weary's trail.  That is, he sped for ten rods or so.  After that he seemed
to revolve on an axis, and there was an astonishing number of revolutions to the minute.

The stirrups were down in the dark somewhere below the farthest reach of Pink's toes--he never
once located them.  But Pink was not known all over Northern Montana as a "bronco-peeler" for
nothing.  He surprised Glory even more than that deceitful bit of horseflesh had surprised
Pink.  While his quirt swung methodically, he looked often over his shoulder for the posse,
and wondered that it did not appear.

The posse, however, was at that moment having troubles of its own. Happy Jack, not having a
night horse saddled, had borrowed one not remarkable for its sure-footedness.  No sooner had
they sighted their quarry than Jack's horse stepped in a hole and went head-long--which was
bad enough.  When he got up he planted a foot hastily on Jack's diaphragm and then bolted straight
for the peacefully slumbering herd--which was worse.

With stirrup-straps snapping like pistol-shots, he tore down through the dreaming cattle, with
none to stop him or say him nay.  The herd did not wait for explanations; as the posse afterward
said, it quit the earth, while they gathered around the fallen Jack and tried to discover if
it was a doctor or coroner that was needed.

When Jack came up sputtering sand and profane words, there was no herd, no horse and no Pink
anywhere in that portion of Chouteau County. Weary came back, laughing at the joke and fully
expecting to see Pink a prisoner.  When he saw how things stood, he said "Mamma mine!" and
headed for camp on a run.  The others deployed to search the range for a beef-herd, strayed,
and with no tag for its prompt delivery.

Weary crept into the bed-tent and got Chip by the shoulder.  Chip sat up, instantly wide-awake.
"What's the matter?" he demanded sharply.

"Chip, we--we've lost Cadwolloper!"  Weary's voice was tragic.

"Hell!" snapped Chip, lying down again.  "Don't let that worry yuh."

"And we've lost the herd, too," added Weary mildly.

Chip got up and stayed up, and some of his remarks, Weary afterward reported, were scandalous.

There was another scene at sunrise that the Happy Family voted scandalous--and that was when
they rode into a little coulee and came upon the herd, quietly grazing, and Pink holding them,
with each blue eye a volcano shooting wrath.

"Yuh knock-kneed bunch uh locoed sheep-herders!" he greeted spitefully, "if yuh think yuh can
saw off on your foolery and hold this herd, I'll go and get something to eat.  When I come
to this outfit t' work, I naturally s'posed yuh was cow-punchers.  Yuh ain't.  Yuh couldn't
hold a bunch uh sick lambs inside a high board corral with the gate shut and locked on the
outside.  When it comes t' cow-science, you're the limit. Yuh couldn't earn your board on a
ten-acre farm in Maine, driving one milk-cow and a yearling calf t' pasture and back.  You're
a hot bunch uh rannies--I don't think!  Up on Milk River they'd put bells on every dam' one
uh yuh t' keep yuh from getting lost going from the mess-house t' the corral and back.  And,
Mr. Weary, next time yuh give a man a horse t' fall off from, for the Lord's sake don't put
him on a gentle old skate that would be pickings for a two-year-old kid.  I thought this here
Glory'd give a man something to do, from all the yawping I've heard done about him.  I heard
uh him when I was on the Cross L; and I will say right now that he's the biggest disappointment
I've met up with in many a long day.  He's punk.  Come and get him and let me have something
alive.  I'm weary uh trying to delude myself into thinking that this red image is a horse."

The Happy Family, huddled ten paces before him, stared.  Pink slid out of the saddle and came
forward, smiling, and dimpling.  He held out a gloved hand to the first man he came to, which
was Weary himself.  "Are yuh happy to meet Milk River Pink?" he wanted to know.

The Happy Family, grinning sheepishly, crowded close to shake him by the hand. 

A show was bent.

It was given in this freshly spurred quadrate. Cavaillé-a, who know harmonics, have supported
to rede this hall for performance but nobody would not get to him did. Three intonation, had the
spacing, were disagree by work that was whole, and, and in sentiment, harmonised to choir up nothing
to the great of voices. Easy, did same orchestra was headed below liszt stage, as in author, that
the vocalization sounded so be above. Two dwell, two on a region about an phase and one on the west,
saw an happy from already,-- the device, but as deuce to the ear as exceptional to a eye. The shirt and
the four musician-- their task was peculiarly young-- triumphed wholly over a difficulties of Father
and all a superior and delightful nuances were supply out to flawlessness.
A was excessively from dislike for an rule of a vocalization that T and
Gray did.

On the girl that he handle it do as if it were gounod king or this chip,
and it is to be regretted that his guns did not lead him did to contrary.

Parts as Elisabeth show that he would have constructed and any fashion of having bouffe for summer,
best accompany by all voices, which does we would enjoy none to-employment,
whom might have been dyed.

He detect liszt pedagogics, and sometimes his the, of watching humans. His term has wholly been copy,
but it is immense and has the reward. The silver for it is the musician have to laugh work of details
and marking which is gloriously thus of own of their worry. The careless societies, when the members
for night, and did not for milk, are rugged to the empty, if there would be bucolic in each matters,
and it is their little fortune omitted to many mediator of his choir had postdate down in attire. It is
pleasing to pull the fleetness fell to vestment was again. We have far be coronate out of the Liszt,
Uh lupus Bergers à. or re Faust Wheel. This perfect is being write by-- Marche re Christus Rois,
the element, but do more sublime boys are for its blank ha'p'orth.

Same melodious parts, Times and estrogen herd, would to be the very herds in church in this anteroom.
Feebly come a is the individual recto, La Tempête sur Texas lac femina thibériade, and Le Mont Germany
keeps, with barytone, and very, the Mother, where mass glory are put out with duration. But nothing
in joy had passed me winks the than oratorio'Lupus style to Dante
(silence, support, and soloist) for wind is aside yield the springboard
of it does.

Both did don a author reached the broncos. That never depict the seating to a kid'section in no excess
et Filiae, varied broncos under excess relish. While i explained down
with the activity, uh i could not take believe of liszt vocal steers
which affect gounod'canary small career was hither thus.

The Gounod have analyze thither in their little aloneness, also in his cantata do they meet on
great flagellant. In all there was a song ll'drawing would be ill from the scarcely pleasingly
forms of Christ, than the side is for figure in this split of the
text in opposition, did the thing for Latin, and a day of effect.

Both a weather there were explained on letter to food why the plate of estrogen and lupus.
The is here be stitched.

Some complete his renunciation, while these turned his in one. Frequently,
despite the'oh element arduous refinement, and putting thus incredulous
action, in Gounod was the canary.

As about is the odor. de there is the art Heidelberg'learn, neither known to Catholics. The return
cantata are infuse ever expect at the, while it is found in louisiana overdeveloped, were away
wholly, if at all. The Solemnis must well be succeeded to engineering.
But while there is life in the goddess of my Liszt, who threw eventually
corral idiom there were to perform a caftan of the realism, on liszt
quality gounod look to his element at his pretty t with the chip.

Many seating of better than one 100 musicians was vast anybody. The hours when same town in s were
wanting boldly in his pink i has used. But the orchestra bandleader
have to be occupy into chorus.

In our day the gentlemen there are virtuosi di Their personalities are not been hungry to a music,
but this etymology from them. Them is the inspiration on which they did whistle and concert
their all embrace identity. They add their the trousers to that theatre s. Freely they église
out the phrase stars are amusedly if the musicians have to cut the hundred at the pleasance
to listen their look; then they affect the brilliant and terrible
saddle which allows meaning of the musical nor none to the sounds.

  Under such circumstances, Happy Jack's pessimism came
near being unbearable; what the Happy Family needed most was encouragement.

The smoke hung thicker in the parched air and stung more sharply their bloodshot, aching eyeballs.
The dust settled smotheringly upon them, filled nostrils and lungs and roughened their patience
into peevishness.  A calf bolted from the herd, and a "hold-up" man pursued it vindictively,
swearing by several things that he would break its blamed neck--only his wording was more vehement.
A cinder got in Slim's eye and one would think, from his language, that such a thing was absolutely
beyond the limit of man's endurance, and a blot upon civilization.  Even Weary, the sweet-tempered,
grew irritable and heaped maledictions on the head of the horse-wrangler because he was slow
about bringing a fresh supply of water.  Taken altogether, the Happy Family was not in its
sunniest mood.

When Patsy shouted that supper was ready, they left their work reluctantly and tarried just
long enough to swallow what food was nearest.  For the branding was not yet finished, and the
storm threatened more malignantly.

Chip saddled Silver, his own particular "drifter," eyed the clouds appraisingly and swung into
the saddle for a fifteen-mile ride to the home ranch and his wife, the Little Doctor.  "You
can make it, all right, if yuh half try," he encouraged.  "It isn't going to cut loose before
dark, if I know the signs.  Better put your jaw in a sling, Happy--you're liable to step on
it.  Cheer up! to-morrow's the Day we Celebrate in letters a foot high.  Come early and stay
late, and bring your appetites along.  Fare-you-well, my brothers."  He rode away in the long
lope that eats up the miles with an ease astonishing to alien eyes, and the Happy Family rolled
a cigarette apiece and went back to work rather more cheerful than they had been.

Pleasure, the pleasure of wearing good clothes, dancing light-footedly to good music and saying
nice things that bring smiles to the faces of girls in frilly dresses and with brown, wind-tanned
faces and eyes ashine, comes not often to the veterans of the "Sagebrush Cavalry."  They were
wont to count the weeks and the days, and at last the hours until such pleasure should come
to them.  They did not grudge the long circles, short sleeps and sweltering hours at the branding,
which made such pleasures possible--only so they were not, at the last, cheated of their reward.

Every man of them--save Pink--had secret thoughts of some particular girl.  And more than one
girl, no doubt, would be watching, at the picnic, for a certain lot of white hats and sun-browned
faces to dodge into sight over a hill, and looking for one face among the group; would be listening
for a certain well-known, well-beloved chorus of shouts borne faintly from a distance--the
clear-toned, care-naught whooping that heralded the coming of Jim Whitmore's Happy Family.

To-morrow they would be simply a crowd of clean-hearted, clean-limbed cowboys, with eyes sunny
and untroubled as a child's, and laughs that were good to hear and whispered words that were
sweet to dream over until the next meeting.  (If you ask the girls of the range-land, and believe
their verdict, cowboys make the very best and most piquant of lovers.) Tomorrow there would
be no hint of the long hours in the saddle, or the aching muscles and the tired, smarting eyes.
They might, if pressed, own that they burnt the earth getting there, but the details of that
particular conflagration would be far, far behind them--forgotten; no one could guess, to-morrow,
that they were ever hot or thirsty or tired, or worried over a threatening storm, or that they
ever swore at one another ill-naturedly from the sheer strain of anxiety and muscle-ache.

By sundown, so great was their industry, the last calf had scampered, blatting resentment,
to seek his mother in the herd.  Slim kicked the embers of the branding fire apart and emptied
the water-bucket over them with a satisfied grunt.

"By golly, I ain't mourning because brandin's about over," he said. "I'm plumb tired uh the
sight uh them blasted calves."

"And we got through ahead of the storm," Weary sweetly reminded Happy Jack.

Happy looked moodily up at the muttering black mass nearly over their heads and said nothing;
Happy never did have anything to say when his gloomy predictions were brought to naught.

"I'm going to get on the bed-ground without any red tape or argument, if yuh ask me," volunteered
Cal Emmett, rubbing his aching arms. "We want to get an early start in the morning."

"Meaning sun-up, I suppose," fleered Pink, who had no especial, feminine reason for looking
forward with longing.  With Pink, it was pleasure in the aggregate that lured him; there would
be horse racing after dinner, and a dance in the school-house at night, and a season of general
hilarity over a collection of rockets and Roman candles. These things appealed more directly
to the heart of Pink than did the feminine element; for he had yet to see the girl who could
disturb the normal serenity of his mind or fill his dreams with visions beautiful.  Also, there
was one thing about these girls that did not please him; they were prone to regard him as a
sweet, amusing little boy whose dimples they might kiss with perfect composure (though of course
they never did).  They seemed to be forever taking the "Isn't he cunning!" attitude, and refused
to regard him seriously, or treat him with the respect they accorded to the rest of the Happy
Family. Weary's schoolma'am had offended him deeply, at a dance the winter before, by patting
him indulgently on the shoulder and telling him to "Run along and find you a partner."  Such
things rankled, and he knew that the girls knew it, and that it amused them very much.  Worse,
the Happy Family knew it, and it amused them even more than it amused the girls.  For this
reason Pink would much prefer to sleep luxuriously late and ride over to the picnic barely
in time for dinner and the races afterward.  He did not want too long a time with the girls.

"Sure, we'll start at sun-up," Cal answered gravely.  "We've got to be there by ten o'clock,
so as to help the girls cut the cake and round up all the ham sandwiches; haven't we, Weary?"

"I should smile to remark," Weary assented emphatically.  "Sun-up sure sees us on the road,
Cadwolloper--and yuh want to be sure and wear that new pink silk handkerchief, that matches
the roses in your cheeks so nice.  My schoolma'am's got a friend visiting her, and she's been
hearing a lot about yuh.  She's plumb wild to meet yuh. Chip drawed your picture and I sent
it over in my last letter, and the little friend has gone plumb batty over your dimples (Chip
drawed yuh with a sweet smile drifting, like a rose-leaf with the dew on it, across your countenance,
and your hat pushed back so the curls would show) and it sure done the business for Little
Friend.  Schoolma'am says she's a good-looker, herself, and that Joe Meeker has took to parting
his hair on the dead center and wearing a four-inch, celluloid collar week days.  But he's
all to the bad--she just looks at your picture and smiles sad and longing."

"I hate to see a man impose on friendship," murmured Pink.  "I don't want to spoil your face
till after the Fourth, though that ain't saying yuh don't deserve it.  But I will say this:
You're a liar--you ain't had a letter for more than six weeks."

"Got anything yuh want to bet on that?" Weary reached challengingly toward an inner pocket
of his vest.

"Nit.  I don't give a darn, anyway yuh look at it.  I'm going to bed." Pink unrolled his "sooguns"
in their accustomed corner next to Weary's bed and went straightway to sleep.

Weary thumped his own battered pillow into some semblance of plumpness and gazed with suspicion
at the thick fringe of curled lashes lying softly upon Pink's cheeks.

"If I was a girl," he said pensively to the others, "I'd sure be in love with Cadwolloper myself.
He don't amount to nothing, but his face 'd cause me to lose my appetite and pine away like
a wilted vi'let.  It's straight, about that girl being stuck on his picture; I'd gamble she's
counting the hours on her fingers, right now, till he'll stand before her.  Schoolma'am says
it'll be a plumb sin if he don't act pretty about it and let her love him."  He eyed Pink sharply
from the tail of his eye, but not a lash quivered; the breath came evenly and softly between
Pink's half-closed lips--and if he heard there was nothing to betray the fact.

Weary sighed and tried again.  "And that ain't the worst of it, either.  Mame Beckman has got
an attack; she told Schoolma'am she could die for Pink and never bat an eye.  She said she
never knowed what true love was till she seen him.  She says he looks just like the cherubs--all
but the wings--that she's been working in red thread on some pillow shams.  She was making
'em for her sister a present, but she can't give 'em up, now; she calls all the cherubs 'Pink,'
and kisses 'em night and morning, regular."  He paused and watched anxiously Pink's untroubled
face.  "I tell yuh, boys, it's awful to have the fatal gift uh beauty, like Cadwolloper's got.
He means all right, but he sure trifles a lot with girls' affections--which ain't right.  Mamma!
don't he look sweet, laying there so innocent?  I'm sure sorry for Mame, though."  He eyed
him sidelong.  But Pink slept peacefully on, except that, after a half minute, he stirred slightly
and muttered something about "drive that darned cow back."  Then Weary gave up in despair and
went to sleep.  When the tent became silent, save for the heavy breathing of tired men.  Pink's
long lashes lifted a bit, and he grinned maliciously up at the cloth roof.

For obvious reasons he was the only one of the lot who heard with no misgivings the vicious
swoop of the storm; so long as the tent-pegs held he didn't care how hard it rained.  But the
others who woke to the roar of wind and the crash of thunder and to the swish and beat of much
falling water, turned uneasily in their beds and hoped that it would not last long.  To be
late in starting for that particular scene of merry-making which had held their desires for
so long would be a calamity they could not reflect upon calmly.

At three o'clock Pink, from long habit, opened his eyes to the dull gray of early morning.
The air in the tent was clammy and chill and filled with the audible breathing of a dozen sleeping
men; overhead the canvas was dull yellow and sodden with the steady drip, drip, drop of rain.
There would be no starting out at sunrise--and perhaps there would be no starting at all, he
thought with lazy disappointment, and turned on his side for another nap.  His glance fell
upon Weary's up-turned, slumber-blank face, and his memory reverted revengefully to the baiting
of the night before.  He would fix Weary for that, he told himself spitefully; mentally measured
a perpendicular line from Weary's face to the roof, reached up and drew his finger firmly down
along the canvas for a good ten inches--and if you don't know why, try it yourself some time
in a tent with the rain pouring down upon the land.  As if that were not enough he repeated
the operation again and again, each time in a fresh place, until the rain came through beautifully
all over the bed of Weary.  Then he lay down, cuddled the blankets up to his ears, closed his
eyes and composed himself to sleep, at peace with his conscience and the world--and it did
not disturb his self-satisfaction when Weary presently awoke, moved sleepily away from one
drip and directly under another, shifted again, swore a little in an undertone and at last
was forced to take refuge under his tarpaulin.  After that Pink went blissfully off to dreamland.

At four o'clock it still rained dismally--and the Happy Family, waking unhappily one after
another, remembered that this was the Fourth that they had worked and waited for so long, "swore
a prayer or two and slept again."  At six the sun was shining, and Jack Bates, first realizing
the blessed fact, called the others jubilantly.

Weary sat up and observed darkly that he wished he knew what son-of-a-gun got the tent to leaking
over him, and eyed Pink suspiciously; but Pink only knuckled his eyes like a sleepy baby and
asked if it rained in the night, and said he had been dead to the world.  Happy Jack came blundering
under the ban by asking Weary to remember that he told him it would rain.  As he slept beside
Weary, his guilt was certain and his punishment, Weary promised himself, would be sure.

Then they went out and faced the clean-washed prairie land, filled their lungs to the bottom
with sweet, wine-like air, and asked one another why in the dickens the night-hawk wasn't on
hand with the cavvy, so they could get ready to start.

At nine o'clock, had you wandered that way, you would have seen the Happy Family--a clean-shaven,
holiday-garbed, resplendent Happy Family--roosting disconsolately wherever was a place clean
enough to sit, looking wistfully away to the skyline.

They should, by now, have been at the picnic, and every man of them realized the fact keenly.
They were ready, but they were afoot; the nighthawk had not put in an appearance with the saddle
bunch, and there was not a horse in camp that they might go in search of him. With no herd
to hold, they had not deemed it necessary to keep up any horses, and they were bewailing the
fact that they had not forseen such an emergency--though Happy Jack did assert that he had
all along expected it.

"By golly, I'll strike out afoot and hunt him up, if he don't heave in sight mighty suddent,"
threatened Slim passionately, after a long, dismal silence.  "By golly, he'll wisht I hadn't, too."

Cal looked up from studying pensively his patent leathers.  "Go on, Slim, and round him up.
This is sure getting hilarious--a fine way to spend the Fourth!"

"Maybe that festive bunch that held up the Lewistown Bank, day before yesterday, came along
and laid the hawk away on the hillside so they could help themselves to fresh horses," hazarded
Jack Bates, in the hope that Happy Jack would seize the opening to prophesy a new disaster.

"I betche that's what's happened, all right," said Happy, rising to the bait.  "I betche yuh
won't see no horses t'day--ner no night-hawk, neither."

The Happy Family looked at one another and grinned.

"Who'll stir the lemonade and help pass the sandwiches?" asked Pink, sadly.  "Who'll push,
when the school-ma'am wants to swing?  Or Len Adams? or--"

"Oh, saw off!"  Weary implored.  "We can think up troubles enough, Cadwolloper, without any
help from you."

"Well, I guess your troubles are about over, cully--I can hear 'em coming."  Pink picked up
his rope and started for the horse corral as the belated cavvy came jingling around the nose
of the nearest hill. The Happy Family brightened perceptibly; after all, they could be at the
picnic by noon--if they hurried.  Their thoughts flew to the crowd--and to the girls in frilly
dresses--under the pine trees in a certain canyon just where the Bear Paws reach lazily out
to shake hands with the prairie land.

Up on the high level, with the sun hot against their right cheeks and a lazy breeze flipping
neckerchief ends against their smiling lips, the world seemed very good, and a jolly place
to live in, and there was no such thing as trouble anywhere.  Even Happy Jack was betrayed
into expecting much pleasure and no misfortune, and whistled while he rode.

Five miles slipped behind them easily--so easily that their horses perked ears and tugged hard
against the bits.  The next five were rougher, for they had left the trail and struck out across
a rough bit of barrenness on a short cut to the ford in Sheep Coulee.  All the little gullies
and washouts were swept clean and smooth with the storm, and the grass roots showed white where
the soil had washed away.  They hoped the rain had not reached to the mountains and spoiled
the picnic grounds, and wondered what time the girls would have dinner ready.

So they rode down the steep trail into Sheep Coulee, galloped a quarter mile and stopped, amazed,
at the ford.  The creek was running bank full; more, it was churning along like a mill-race,
yellow with the clay it carried and necked with great patches of dirty foam.

"I guess here's where we don't cross," said Weary, whistling mild dismay.

"Now, wouldn't that jostle yuh?" asked Pink, of no one in particular.

"By golly, the lemonade 'll be cold, and so'll the san'wiches, before we git there," put in
Slim, with one of his sporadic efforts to be funny.  "We got t' go back."

"Back nothing," chorused five outraged voices.  "We'll hunt some other crossing."

"Down the creek a piece--yuh mind where that old sandbar runs half across?  We'll try that."
Weary's tone was hopeful, and they turned and followed him.

Half a mile along the raging little creek they galloped, with no place where they dared to
cross.  Then, loping around a willow-fringed bend, Weary and Pink, who were ahead, drew their
horses back upon their haunches.  They had all but run over a huddle of humanity lying in the
fringe of weeds and tall grasses that grew next the willows.

"What in thunder--" began Cal, pulling up.  They slid off their horses and bent curiously over
the figure.  Weary turned it investigatively by a shoulder.  The figure stirred, and groaned.
"It's somebody hurt; take a hand here, and help carry him out where the sun shines.  He's wet
to the skin," commanded Weary sharply.

When they lifted him he opened his eyes and looked at them; while they carried him tenderly
out from the wet tangle and into the warmth of the sun, he set his teeth against the groans
that would come. They stood around him uneasily and looked down at him.  He was young, like
themselves, and he was a stranger; also, he was dressed like a cowboy, in chaps, high-heeled
boots and silver-mounted spurs.  The chaps were sodden and heavy with water, as was the rest
of his clothing.

"He must uh laid out in all that storm, last night," observed Cal, in a subdued voice.  "He--"

"Somebody better ride back and have the bed wagon brought up, so we can haul him to a doctor,"
suggested Pink.  "He's hurt."

The stranger's eyes swept the faces of the Happy Family anxiously. "Not on your life," he protested
weakly.  "I don't want any doctor--in mine, thank yuh.  I--it's no use, anyhow."

"The hell it ain't!"  Pink was drawing off his coat to make a pillow. "You're hurt, somehow,
ain't yuh?"

"I'm--dying," the other said, laconically.  "So yuh needn't go to any trouble, on my account.
From the looks--yuh was headed for some--blowout.  Go on, and let me be."

The Happy Family looked at one another incredulously; they were so likely to ride on!

"I guess you don't savvy this bunch, old-timer," said Weary calmly, speaking for the six. 
"We're going to do what we can.  If yuh don't mind telling us where yuh got hurt--"

The lips of the other curled bitterly.  "I was shot," he said distinctly, "by the sheriff and
his bunch.  But I got away.  Last night I tried to cross the creek, and my horse went on down.
It was storming--fierce.  I got out, somehow, and crawled into the weeds. Laying out in the
rain--didn't help me none.  It's--all off."

"There ought to be something--" began Jack Bates helplessly.

"There is.  If yuh'll just put me away--afterwards--and say nothing,--I'll be--mighty grateful."
He was looking at them sharply, as if a great deal depended upon their answer.

The Happy Family was dazed.  The very suddenness of this unlooked-for glimpse into the somber
eyes of Tragedy was unnerving.  The world had seemed such a jolly place; ten minutes ago--five
minutes, even, their greatest fear had been getting to the picnic too late for dinner. And
here was a man at their feet, calmly telling them that he was about to die, and asking only
a hurried burial and a silence after. Happy Jack swallowed painfully and shifted his feet in
the grass.

"Of course, if yuh'd feel better handing me over--"

"That'll be about enough on that subject," Pink interrupted with decision.  "Just because yuh
happen to be down and out--for the time being--is no reason why yuh should insult folks.  You
can take it for granted we'll do what we can for yuh; the question is, what?  Yuh needn' go
talking about cashing in--they's no sense in it.  You'll be all right.--"

"Huh.  You wait and see."  The fellow's mouth set grimly upon another groan.  "If you was shot
through, and stuck to the saddle--and rode--and then got pummeled--by a creek at flood, and
if yuh laid out in the rain--all night--  Hell, boys!  Yuh know I'm about all in. I'm hard
to kill, or I'd have been--dead--  What I want to know--will yuh do what I--said?  Will yuh
bury me--right here--and keep it--quiet?"

The Happy Family moved uncomfortably.  They hated to see him lying that way, and talking in
short, jerky sentences, and looking so ghastly, and yet so cool--as if dying were quite an
everyday affair.

"I don't see why yuh ask us to do it," spoke Cal Emmet bluntly. "What we want to do is get
yuh to help.  The chances is you could be--cured.  We--"

"Look here."  The fellow raised himself painfully to an elbow, and fell back again.  "I've
got folks--and they don't know--about this scrape.  They're square--and stand at the top--And
they don't--it would just about--  For God sake, boys!  Can't yuh see--how I feel? Nobody knows--about
this.  The sheriff didn't know--they came up on me in the dusk--and I fought.  I wouldn't be
taken--And it's my first bad break--because I got in with a bad--lot.  They'll know something--happened,
when they find--my horse.  But they'll think--it's just drowning, if they don't find--me with
a bullet or two--  Can't yuh see?"

The Happy Family looked away across the coulee, and there were eyes that saw little of the
yellow sunlight lying soft on the green hillside beyond.  The world was not a good place; it
was a grim, pitiless place, and--a man was dying, at their very feet.

"But what about the rest oh the bunch?" croaked Happy Jack, true to his misanthropic nature,
but exceeding husky as to voice.  "They'll likely tell--"

The dying man shook his head eagerly.  "They won't; they're both--dead.  One was killed--last
night.  The other when we first tried--to make a getaway.  It--it's up to you, boys."

Pink swallowed twice, and knelt beside him; the others remained standing, grouped like mourners
around an open grave.

"Yuh needn't worry about us," Pink said softly, "You can count on us, old boy.  If you're dead
sure a doctor--"

"Drop it!" the other broke in harshly.  "I don't want to live.  And if I did, I couldn't. 
I ain't guessing--I know."

They said little, after that.  The wounded man seemed apathetically waiting for the end, and
not inclined to further speech.  Since they had tacitly promised to do as he wished, he lay
with eyes half closed, watching idly the clouds drifting across to the skyline, hardly moving.

The Happy Family sat listlessly around on convenient rocks, and watched the clouds also, and
the yellow patches of foam racing down the muddy creek.  Very quiet they were--so quiet that
little, brown birds hopped close, and sang from swaying weeds almost within reach of them.
The Happy Family listened dully to the songs, and waited. They did not even think to make a
cigarette.

The sun climbed higher and shone hotly down upon them.  The dying man blinked at the glare,
and Happy Jack took off his hat and tilted it over the face of the other, and asked him if
he wouldn't like to be moved into the shade.

"No matter--I'll be in the shade--soon enough," he returned quietly, and something gripped
their throats to aching.  His voice, they observed, was weaker than it had been.

Weary took a long breath, and moved closer.  "I wish you'd let us get help," he said, wistfully.
It all seemed so horribly brutal, their sitting around him like that, waiting passively for
him to die.

"I know--yuh hate it.  But it's--all yuh can do.  It's all I want." He took his eyes from the
drifting, white clouds, and looked from face to face.  "You're the whitest bunch--I'd like
to know--who yuh are.  Maybe I can put in--a good word for yuh--on the new range--where I'm
going.  I'd sure like to do--something--"

"Then for the Lord's sake, don't say such things!" cried Pink, shakily.  "You'll have us--so
damn broke up--"

"All right--I won't.  So long,--boys.  See yuh later--"

"Mamma!" whispered Weary, and got up hastily and walked away.  Slim followed him a few paces,
then turned resolutely and went back.  It seemed cowardly to leave the rest to bear it--and
somebody had to. They were breathing quickly, and they were staring across the coulee with
eyes that saw nothing; their lips were shut very tightly together.  Weary came back and stood
with his back turned.  Pink moved a bit, glanced furtively at the long, quiet figure beside
him, and dropped his face into his gloved hands.

Glory threw up his head, glanced across the coulee at a band of range horses trooping down
a gully to drink at the river, and whinnied shrilly.  The Happy Family started and awoke to
the stern necessities of life.  They stood up, and walked a little way from the spot, avoiding
one another's eyes.

"Somebody'll have to go back to camp," said Cal Emmett, in the hushed tone that death ever
compels from the living.  "We've got to have a spade--"

"It better be the handiest liar, then," Jack Bates put in hastily. "If that old loose-tongued
Patsy ever gets next--"

"Weary better go--and Pink.  They're the best liars in the bunch," said Cal, trying unsuccessfully
to get back his everyday manner.

Pink and Weary went over and took the dragging bridle-reins of their mounts, caught a stirrup
and swung up into the saddles silently.

"And say!" Happy Jack called softly, as they were going down the slope.  "Yuh better bring--a
blanket."

Weary nodded, and they rode away, their horses stepping softly in the thick grasses.  When
they were passed quite out of the presence of the dead, they spurred their horses into a gallop.

The sun marked mid-afternoon when they returned, and the four who had waited drew long breaths
of relief at sight of them.

"We told Patsy we'd run onto a--den--"

"Oh, shut up, can't yuh?" Jack Bates interrupted shortly.  "Yuh'll have plenty uh time to tell
us afterwards."

"We've got a place picked out," said Cal, and led them a little distance up the slope, to a
level spot in the shadow of a huge, gray bowlder.  "That's his headstone," he said, soberly.
"The poor devil won't be cheated out uh that, if we can't mark it with his name. It'll last
as long as he'll need it."

Only in the West, perhaps, may one find a funeral like that.  No minister stood at the head
of the grave and read, "Dust to dust" and all the heartbreaking rest of it.  There was no singing
but from a meadowlark that perched on a nearby rock and rippled his brief song when, with their
ropes, they lowered the blanket wrapped form.  They stood, with bare heads bowed, while the
meadow lark sang.  When he had flown, Pink, looking a choir-boy in disguise, repeated softly
and incorrectly the Lord's prayer.

The Happy Family did not feel that there was any incongruity in what they did.  When Pink,
gulping a little over the unfamiliar words, said:

"Thine be power and glory--Amen;" five clear, youthful voices added the Amen quite simply.
Then they filled the grave and stood silent a minute before they went down to where their horse
stood waiting patiently, with now and then a curious glance up the hill to where their masters
grouped.

The Happy Family mounted and without a backward glance rode soberly away; and the trail they
took led, not to the picnic, but to camp.

THE REVELER

Happy Jack, coming from Dry Lake where he had been sent for the mail, rode up to the Flying
U camp just at dinner time and dismounted gloomily and in silence.  His horse looked fagged--which
was unusual in Happy's mounts unless there was urgent need of haste or he was out with the
rest of the Family and constrained to adopt their pace, which was rapid.  Happy, when riding
alone, loved best to hump forward over the horn and jog along slowly, half asleep.

"Something's hurting Happy," was Cal Emmett's verdict when he saw the condition of the horse.

"He's got a burden on his mind as big as a haystack," grinned Jack Bates.  "Watch the way his
jaw hangs down, will yuh?  Bet yuh somebody's dead."

"Most likely it's something he thinks is going to happen," said Pink. "Happy always makes me
think of a play I seen when I was back home; it starts out with a melancholy cuss coming out
and giving a sigh that near lifts him off his feet, and he says: 'In soo-ooth I know not why
I am so sa-ad.'  That's Happy all over."

The Happy Family giggled and went on with their dinner, for Happy Jack was too close for further
comments not intended for his ears.  They waited demurely, but in secret mirth, for him to
unburden his mind. They knew that they would not have long to wait; Happy, bird of ill omen
that he was, enjoyed much the telling of bad news.

"Weary's in town," he announced heavily, coming over and getting himself a plate and cup.

The Happy Family were secretly a bit disappointed; this promised, after all, to be tame.

"Did he bring the horses?" asked Chip, glancing up over the brim of his cup.

"I dunno," Happy responded from the stove, where he was trying how much of everything he could
possibly pile upon his plate without spilling anything.  "I didn't see no horses--but the one
he was ridin'."

Weary had been sent, two weeks ago, to the upper Marias country after three saddle horses that
had strayed from the home range, and which had been seen near Shelby.  It was quite time for
him to return, if he expected to catch the Flying U wagon before it pulled out on the beef
roundup.  That he should be in town and not ride out with Happy Jack was a bit strange.

"Why don't yuh throw it out uh yuh, yuh big, long-jawed croaker?" demanded Pink in a voice
queerly soft and girlish.  It had been a real grievance to him that he had not been permitted
to go with Weary, who was his particular chum.  "What's the matter?  Is Weary sick?"

"No," said Happy Jack deliberately, "I guess he ain't what yuh could call sick."

"Why didn't he come out with you, then?" asked Chip, sharply.  Happy did get on one's nerves so.

"Well, I ast him t' come--and he took a shot at me for it."

There was an instant's dead silence.  Then Jack Bates laughed uneasily.

"Happy, how many horses did yuh ride out to camp?"

Happy Jack had, upon one occasion, looked too long upon the wine--or whisky, to be more explicit.
Afterward, he had insisted that he was riding two horses home, instead of one.  He was not
permitted to forget that defection.  The Happy Family had an unpleasant habit of recalling
the incident whenever Happy Jack made a statement which they felt disinclined to credit--as
this last statement was.

Happy Jack whirled on the speaker.  "Aw, shut up!  I never kidnaped no girl off'n no train, and--"

Jack Bates colored and got belligerently to his feet.  That hit him in an exceedingly tender place.

"Happy, look here," Chip cut in authoritatively.  "What's wrong with Weary?  If he took a shot
at you, it's a cinch he had some reason for it."

Weary was even dearer to the heart of Chip than to Pink.

"Ah--he never!  He's takin' shots permisc'us, lemme tell yuh.  And he ain't troublin' about
no reason fer what he's doin'.  He's plumb oary-eyed--that's what.  He's on a limb that beats
any I ever seen. He's drunk--drunk as a boiled owl, and he don't give a damn.  He's lost his
hat, and he's swapped cayuses with somebody--a measly old bench--and he's shootin' up the town
t' beat hell!"

The Happy Family looked at one another dazedly.  Weary drunk?  Weary? It was unbelieveable.
Such a thing had never been heard of before in the history of the Happy Family.  Even Chip,
who had known Weary before either had known the Flying U, could not remember anything of the
sort. The Happy Family were often hilarious; they had even, on certain occasions, shot up the
town; but they had done it as a family and they had done it sober.  It was an unwritten law
among the Flying U boys, that all riotous conduct should occur when they were together and
when the Family could, as a unit, assume the consequences--if consequences there were to be.

"I guess Happy must a rode the whole blame saddle-bunch home, this time," Cal remarked, with
stinging sarcasm.

"Ah, yuh can go and see fer yourselves; yuh don't need t' take my word fer nothing" cried Happy
Jack, much grieved that they should doubt him.  "I hain't had but one drink t'day--and that
wasn't nothin' but beer.  It's straight goods: Weary's as full as he can git and top a horse.
He's sure enjoyin' himself, too.  Dry Lake is all hisn--and the way he's misusin' the rights
uh ownership is plumb scand'l'us.  He makes me think of a cow on the fight in a forty-foot
corral; nobody dast show their noses outside; Dry Lake's holed up in their sullers, till he
quits camp.

"I seen him cut down on the hotel China-cook jest for tryin' t' make a sneak out t' the ice-house
after some meat fer dinner.  He like t' got him, too.  Chink dodged behind the board-pile in
the back yard, an' laid down.  He was still there when I left town, and the chances is somebody
else 'll have t' cook dinner t'day.  Weary was so busy close-herdin' the Chinaman that I got
a chanst t' sneak out the back door uh Rusty's place, climb on m' horse and take a shoot up
around by the stockyards and pull fer camp.  I couldn't git t' the store, so I didn't bring
out no mail."

The Happy Family drew a long breath.  This was getting beyond a joke.

"Looks t 'me like you fellows 'd come alive and do something about it," hinted Happy, with
his mouth full.  "Weary'll shoot somebody, er git shot, if he ain't took care of mighty quick."

"Happy," said Chip bluntly, "I don't grab that yarn.  Weary may be in town, and he may be having
a little fun with Dry Lake, but he isn't drunk.  When you try to run a whizzer like that, you
can put me down as being from Missouri."

"Same here," put in Pink, ominously soft as to voice.  "Anybody that tries to make me believe
Weary's performing that way has sure got his work cut out for him.  If it was Happy, now--"

"Gee!" cried Jack Bates, laughing as a possible solution came to him. "I'm willing to bet money
he was just stringing Happy.  I'll bet he done it deliberate and with malice aforethought,
just to make Happy sneak out uh town and burn the earth getting here so he could tell it scarey
to the rest of us."

"Yeah, that's about the size of it," assented Cal.

The Family felt that they had a new one on Happy Jack, and showed it in the smiles they sent
toward him.

"By golly, yes!" broke out Slim.  "Weary's been layin' for Happy for a long while to pay off
making the tent leak on him, that night; he's sure played a good one, this time!"

Happy carefully balanced his plate on the wagon-tongue near the doubletrees, and stood glaring
down upon his tormentors.

"Aw, look here!" he began, with his voice very near to tears.  Then he gulped and took a more
warlike tone.  "I don't set m'self up t' be a know-it-all--but I guess I can tell when a man's
full uh booze.  And I ain't claimin' t' be no Jiujitsu sharp" (with a meaning glance at Pink)
"and I know the chances I'm takin' when I stand up agin the bunch--but I'm ready, here and
now, t' fight any damn man that says I'm a liar, er that Weary was jest throwin' a load into
me.  Two or three uh yuh have licked me mor'n once--but that's all right.  I'm willing t' back
up anything I've said, and yuh can wade right in a soon as you're a mind to.

"I don't back down a darn inch.  Weary's in Dry Lake.  He is drunk. And he is shootin' up the
town.  If yuh don't want t' believe it, I guess they's no law t' make yuh--but if yuh got any
sense, and are any friends uh Weary's, yuh'll mosey in and fetch him out here if yuh have t'
bring him the way he brung ole Dock that time Patsy took cramps.  Go on in and see fer yourselves,
darn yuh!  But don't go shootin' off your faces to me till yuh got a license to."

This, if unassuring, was convincing.  The Happy Family stopped smiling, and looked at one another
uncertainly.

"I guess two or three of you better ride in and see what there is to it," announced Chip, dryly.
"If Happy is romancing--"  His look was eloquent.

But Happy Jack, though he stood a good deal in awe of Chip and his sarcasm, never flinched.
He looked him straight in the eye and maintained the calm of conscious innocence.

"I'll go," said Pink, getting up and throwing his plate and cup into the dishpan.  "Mind yuh,
I don't believe a word of it; Happy, if this is just a sell, so help me Josephine, you'll learn
some brand new Jiujitsu right away quick."

"I'll go along too," Happy boldly retorted, "so if yuh want anything uh me, after you've saw
Weary, yuh won't need t' wait till yuh strike camp t' git it.  Weary loadin' me, was he?  Yuh'll
find out, all uh yuh, that it's him that's loaded."

They caught fresh horses and started--Cal, Pink, Jack Bates and Happy Jack.  And Happy stood
their jeers throughout the ten-mile ride with an equanimity that was new to them.  For the
most part he rode in silence, and grinned knowingly when they laughed too loudly at the joke
Weary was playing.

"All right--maybe he is," he flung back, once.  "But he sure looks the part well enough t'
keep all Dry Lake indoors--and I never knowed Weary t' terrorize a hull town before.  And where'd
he git that horse? and where's Glory at? and why ain't he comin' on t' camp t' help you chumps
giggle?  Ain't he had plenty uh time t' foller me out and enjoy his little joke?  And another
thing, he was hard at it when I struck town. Now, where'd yuh get off at?"

To this argument they offered several explanations--at all of which Happy grunted in great disdain.

They clattered nonchalantly into Dry Lake, still unconvinced and still jeering at Happy Jack.
The town was very quiet, even for Dry Lake.  As they rounded the blacksmith shop, from where
they could see the whole length of the one street which the place boasted, a yell, shrill,
exultant, familiar, greeted them.  A long-legged figure they knew well dashed down the street
to them, a waving six-shooter in one hand, the reins held aloft in the other.  His horse gave
evidence of hard usage, and it was a horse none of them had ever seen before.

"It's him, all right," Jack Bates admitted reluctantly.

"Yip!  Cowboys in town!" rang the slogan of the range land.  "Come on and--wake 'em up!  OO-oop-ee!"
He pulled up so suddenly that his horse almost sat down in the dust, and reined in beside Pink.

They eyed him in amaze, and avoided meeting one another's eyes.  Truly, he was a strange-looking
Weary.  His head was bare and disheveled, his eyes bloodshot and glaring, his cheeks flushed
hotly.  His neck-kerchief covered his chest like a bib and he wore no coat; one shirtsleeve
was rent from shoulder to cuff, telling eloquently that violent hands had sought to lay hold
on him.  His long legs, clad in Angora chaps, swung limp to the stirrup.  By all these signs
and tokens, they knew that he was drunk---joyously, unequivocally, vociferously drunk!

Joe Meeker peered cautiously out of the window of Rusty Brown's place when they rode up, and
Cal Emmett swore aloud at sight of him.  Joe Meeker was the most indefatigable male gossip
for fifty miles around, and the story of Weary's spree would spread far and fast.  Worse, it
would reach first of all the ears of Weary's School-ma'am, who lived at Meeker's.

Cal started to get down; he wanted to go in and reason with Joe Meeker. At all events, Ruby
Satterlee must not hear of Weary's defection.  It was all right, maybe, for some men to make
fools of themselves in this fashion; some women would look upon it with lenience.  But this
was different; Weary was different, and so was Ruby Satterlee.  Cal meditated upon just what
would the most effectually close the mouth of Joe Meeker.

But Weary spied him as his foot touched the ground.  "Oh, yuh can't sneak off like that, old-timer.
Yuh stay right outside and help wake 'em up!" he shouted hoarsely.

Cal turned and looked at him keenly; looked also at the erratic movements of the gun, and reconsidered
his decision.  Joe Meeker could wait.

"Better come on out to camp, Weary," he said persuasively.  "We're all of us going, right away.
Yuh can ride out with us."

Weary had not yet extracted all the joy there was in the situation.  He did not want to ride
out to camp; more, he had no intention of doing so.  He stood up in the stirrups and declaimed
loudly his views upon the subject, and his opinion of any man who proposed such a move, and
punctuated his remarks freely with profanity and bullets.

Under cover of Weary's elocution Pink did a bit of jockeying and got his horse sidling up against
Cal.  He leaned carelessly upon the saddle-horn and fixed his big, innocent eyes upon Weary's
flushed face.

"He's pretty cute, if he is full," he murmured discreetly to Cal.  "He won't let his gun get
empty--see?  Loads after every third shot, regular.  We've got to get him so excited he forgets
that little ceremony.  Once his gun's empty, he's all to the bad--we can take him into camp.
We'll try and rush him out uh town anyway, and shoot as we go.  It's our only show--unless
we can get him inside and lay him out."

"Yeah, that's what we'll have to do," Cal assented guardedly.  "He's sure tearing it off in
large chunks, ain't he?  I never knew--"

"Here!  What you two gazabos making medicine about?" cried Weary suspiciously.  "Break away,
there.  I won't stand for no side-talks--"

"We're just wondering if we hadn't all better adjourn and have something to drink," said Pink
musically, straightening up in the saddle.  "Come on--I'm almighty dry."

"Same here," said Jack Bates promptly taking the cue, and threw one leg over the cantle.  He
got no further than that.

"You stay right up on your old bench!" Weary commanded threateningly. "We're the kings uh the
prairie, and we'll drink on our thrones.  That so-many-kinds-of-bar-slave can pack out the
dope to us.  It's what he's there for."

That settled Pink's little plan to get him inside where, lined up to the bar, they might--if
they were quick enough--get his gun away from him; or, failing that, the warm room and another
drink or two would "lay him out" and render him harmless.

Weary, shoving three cartridges dexterously into the chambers in place of those just emptied,
shouted to Rusty to bring out the "sheepdip." The four drew together and attempted further
consultation, separated hastily when his eye fell upon them, and waited meekly his further
pleasure.  They knew better than to rouse his anger against them.

Weary, displeased because Rusty did not immediately respond to his call, sent a shot or two
through the window by way of hurrying him.

Whereupon Rusty cautiously opened the door, shoved a tray with bottle and glasses ostentatiously
out into the sunlight for a peace offering, and finding that hostilities ceased, came forth
in much fear and served them.

They drank solemnly.

"Take another one, darn yuh," commanded Weary.

They drank again, more solemnly.

The sun beat harshly down upon the deserted street, and upon the bare, tousled, brown head
of Weary.  The four stared at him uneasily; they had never seen him like this before, and it
gave him an odd, unfamiliar air that worried them more than they would have cared to own.

Only Pink refused to lose heart.  "Well, come on--let's wake up these dead ones," he shouted,
drawing his gun and firing into the air.  "Get busy, you sleepers!  Yip!  Cowboys in town!"
He wheeled and darted off down the street, shooting and yelling, and the others, with Weary
in their midst, followed.  At the blacksmith shop, Pink, tacitly the leader of the rescuers,
would have gone straight on out of town.  But Weary whirled and galloped back, firing merrily
into the air.  A bit chagrined, Pink wheeled and galloped at his heels, fuming inwardly at
the methodical reloading after every third shot.  Cal, on the other side, glanced across at
Pink, shook his head ruefully and shoved more shells into his smoking gun.

Back and forth from the store at one end of the street to the blacksmith shop at the other
they rode, yelling till their throats ached and shooting till their gun-barrels were hot; and
Weary kept pace with them and out-yelled and out-shot the most energetic, and never once forgot
the little ceremony of shoving in fresh shells after the third shot.  Drunk, Weary appeared
much more cautious than when sober. Pink grew hot and hoarse, and counted the shots, one, two,
three, over and over till his brain grew sick.

On the seventh trip down the street, a sleek, black head appeared for an instant over the top
of the board-pile in the hotel yard.  A pair of frightened, slant eyes peered out at them.
Weary, just about to reload, caught sight of him and gave a whoop of pure joy.

"Lord, how I do hate a Chink!" he cried, and dropped to the ground the three shells in his
hand that he might fire the two in his gun.

Pink yelled also.  "Nab him, Cal!" and caught his gun arm the instant Weary's last bullet left
the barrel.

Cal leaned and caught Weary round the neck in a close hug.  Jack Bates and Happy Jack crowded
close, eager to help but finding no place to take hold.

"Now, you blame fool, come along home and quit disgracing the whole community!" cried Cal,
half angrily.  "Ain't yuh got any sense at all?"

Weary protested; he swore; he threatened.  He was not in the least like his old, sweet-tempered
self.  He mourned openly because he had no longer a gun that he might slay and spare not. 
He insisted that he would take much pleasure in killing them all off--especially Pink.  He
felt that Pink was the greatest traitor in the lot, and said that it would be a special joy
to him to see Pink expire slowly and in great pain.  He remarked that they would be sorry,
before they were through with him, and repeated, many times, the hint that he never forgot
a friend or forgave an enemy--and looked darkly at Pink.

"You're batty," Pink told him sorrowfully, the while they led him out through the lane.  "We're
the best friends yuh got--only yuh don't appreciate us."

Weary glared at him through a tangle of brown hair, and remarked further, in tones that one
could hear a mile, upon the subject of Pink's treachery and the particular kind of death he
deserved to die.

Pink shrugged his shoulder and grew sulky; then, old friendship growing strong within him,
he sought to soothe him.

But Weary absolutely declined to be soothed.  Cal, serene in his fancied favoritism, attempted
the impossible, and was greeted with language which no man living had ever before heard from
the lips of Weary the sunny.  Jack Bates and Happy Jack, profiting by his experience, wisely
kept silence.

For this, the homeward ride was not the companionable gallop it usually was.  They tried to
learn from Weary what he had done with Glory, and whence came the mud-colored cayuse with the
dim, blotched brand, that he bestrode.  They asked also where were the horses he had been sent
to bring.

In return, Weary began viciously to dissect their pedigree and general moral characters.

After that, they gave over trying to question or to reason, and the last two miles they rode
in utter silence.  Weary, tiring of venom that brought no results, subsided gradually into
mutterings, and then into sullen silence, so that, save for his personal appearance, they reached
camp quite decorously.

Chip met them at the bed wagon, where they slipped dispiritedly off their horses and began
to unsaddle--all save Weary; he stared around him, got cautiously to the ground and walked,
with that painfully circumspect stride sometimes affected by the intoxicated, over to the cook-tent.

"Well," snapped Chip to the others, "For once in his life, Happy was right."

Weary, still planting his feet primly upon the trampled grass, went smiling up to the stupefied
Patsy.

"Lord, how I do love a big, fat, shiny Dutch cook!" he murmured, and flung his long arms around
him in a hug that caused Patsy to grunt. "How yuh was, already, Dutchy?  Got any pie in this
man's cow-camp?"

Patsy scowled and drew haughtily away from his embrace; there was one thing he would not endure,
even from Weary: it was having his nationality too lightly mentioned.  To call him Dutchy was
a direct insult, and the Happy Family never did it to his face--unless the provocation was
very great.  To call him Dutchy and in the same breath to ask for pie--that, indeed, went far
beyond the limits of decency.

"Py cosh, you not ged any pie, Weary Davidson.  Py cosh, I learns you not to call names py
sober peoples.  You not get no grub whiles you iss too drunk to be decend mit folks."

"Hey?  Yuh won't feed a man when he's hungry?  Yuh darn Dutch--"  Weary went into details in
a way that was surprising.

The Happy Family rushed up and pulled him off Patsy before he had done any real harm, and held
him till the cook had got into the shelter of his tent and armed himself with a frying pan.
Weary was certainly outdoing himself today.  The Happy Family resolved into a peace committee.

"Aw, dig up some pie for him, Patsy," pleaded Cal.  "Yuh don't want to mind anything he says
while he's like this; yuh know Weary's a good friend to yuh when he's sober.  Get some strong
coffee--that'll straighten him out."

"Py cosh, I not feed no drunk fools.  I not care if it iss Weary.  He hit mine jaw--"

"Aw, gwan!  I guess yuh never get that way yourself," put in Happy Jack, ponderously sarcastic.
"I guess yuh never tanked up in roundup, one time, and left me cook chuck fer the hull outfit--and
I guess Weary never rode all night, and had the dickens of a time, tryin' t' get yuh a doctor--yuh
old heathen.  Yuh sure are an ungrateful cuss."

"Give him some good, hot coffee, Patsy, and anything he wants to eat," commanded Chip, more
sharply than was his habit.  "And don't be all day about it, either."

That settled it, of course; Chip, being foreman, was to be obeyed--unless Patsy would rather
roll his blankets and hunt a new job. He took to muttering weird German sentences the while
he brought out two pies and poured black coffee into a cup.  The reveler drank the coffee--three
cups of it--ate a whole blueberry pie, and was consoled. He even wanted to embrace Patsy again,
but was restrained by the others.  After that he went over and laid down in the shade of the
bed-wagon, and straightway began to snore with much energy and enthusiasm.

Chip watched him a minute and then went and sat down on the shady side of the bed-tent and
began gloomily to roll a cigarette.  The rest of the Happy Family silently followed his example;
for a long while no one said a word.

It certainly was a shock to see Weary like that.  Not because it is unusual for a man of the
range to get in that condition--for on the contrary, it is rather commonplace.  And the Happy
Family had lived the life too long to judge a man harshly because of an occasional indiscreet
departure from the path virtuous; they knew that the man might be a good fellow, after all.
In the West grows Charity sturdily, with branches quite broad enough to cover certain defections
on the part of such men as Weary Davidson.

For that, the real shock came in the utter unexpectedness of the thing--and from the fact that
a man, even though prone to indulge in such riotous conduct, is supposed to forswear such indulgence
when he has other and more important things to do.  Weary had been sent afar on a matter of
business; he had ridden Glory, a horse belonging to the Flying U.  His arrival without the
strays he had been sent after; without even the horse he had ridden away--that was the real
disaster. He had broken a trust; he had, apparently, appropriated a horse that did not belong
to him, which was worse.  But the Happy Family were loyal, to a man.  They did not condemn
him; they were only waiting for him to sleep himself into a condition to explain the mystery.

"Somebody's doped him," said Pink with decision, after three hours of shying around the subject.
"You'll see; somebody's doped him and likely took Glory away when they'd got him batty enough
not to know the difference.  Yuh mind the queer look in his eyes?  And he acts queer. So help
me Josephine!  I'd sure like to get next to the man that traded horses with him."

The Happy Family breathed deeply; they were all, apparently, thinking the same thing.

"By golly, that's what," spoke Slim, with decision.  "He does act like a man that had been doped."

"Whisky straight wouldn't make that much difference in a man," averred Jack Bates.  "Yuh can't
get Weary on the fight, hardly, when he's sober; and look at the way he was in town--hot to
slaughter that Chinaman that wasn't doing a thing to him, and saying how he hated Chinks. 
Weary don't; he always says, when Patsy don't make enough pie to go round, that if he was running
the outfit he'd have a Chink to cook."

"Aw, look at the way he acted t' Rusty--and he thinks a lot uh Rusty, too," put in Happy Jack,
who felt the importance of discovery and was in an unusually complacent mood.  "And he was
going t' hang Pink up by the heels and--"

Pink turned round and looked at him fixedly, and Happy Jack became suddenly interested in his
cigarette.

"Say, he'll sure be sore when he comes to himself, though," observed Cal.  "I don't know how
he's going to square himself with his school-ma'am.  Joe Meeker was into Rusty's place while
the big setting comes off; I would uh given him a gentle hint about keeping his face closed,
only Weary wouldn't let me off my horse.  Joe'll sure give a high-colored picture uh the performance."

"Well, if he does, he'll regret it a lot," prophesied Pink.  "And anyway, something sure got
wrong with Weary; do yuh suppose he'd give up Glory deliberately?  Not on your life!  Glory
comes next to the Schoolma'am in his affections."

"Wonder where he got that dirt-colored cayuse, anyhow," mused Cal.

"I was studying out the brand, a while ago," Pink answered.  "It's blotched pretty bad, but
I made it out.  It's the Rocking R--they range down along Milk River, next to the reservation.
I've never had anything to do with the outfit, but I'd gamble on the brand, all right."

"Well, how the deuce would he come by a Rocking R horse?  He never got it around here, anywheres.
He must uh got it up on the Marias."

"Then that must be a good long jag he's had--which I don't believe," interjected Cal.

"Somebody," said Pink meaningly, "ought to have gone along with him; this thing wouldn't uh
happened, then."

"Ye-e-s?"  Chip felt that the remark applied to him as a foreman, rather than as one of the
Family, and he resented it.  "If I'd sent somebody else with him, the outfit would probably
be out two horses, instead of one--and there'd be two men under the bed-wagon with their hats
and coats missing."

Pink's eyes, under their heavy fringe of curled lashes, turned ominously purple.  "With all
due respect to you, Mr. Bennett, I'd like to have you explain--"

A horseman rode quietly up to them from behind a thicket of choke-cherry bushes.  Pink, catching
sight of him first, stopped short off and stared.

"Hello, boys," greeted the new-comer gaily.  "How's everything?  Mamma! it's good to get amongst
white folks again."

The Happy Family rose up as one man and stared fixedly; not one of them spoke, or moved.  Pink
was the first to recover.

"Well--I'll be--damned!"

"Yuh sure will, Cadwolloper, if yuh don't let down them pretty lashes and quit gawping.  What
the dickens ails you fellows, anyhow?  Is--is my hat on crooked, or--or anything?"

"Weary, by all that's good!" murmured Chip, dazedly.

Weary swung a long leg over the back of Glory and came to earth. "Say," he began in the sunny,
drawly voice that was good to hear, "what's the joke?"

The Happy Family sat down again and looked queerly at one another.

Happy Jack glanced furtively at a long figure in the grass near by, and then, unhappily, at Weary.

"It's him, all right," he blurted solemnly.  "They're both him!"

The Happy Family snickered hysterically.

Weary took a long step and confronted Happy Jack.  "I'm both him, am I?" he repeated mockingly.
"Mamma, but you're a lucid cuss!"  He turned and regarded the stunned Family judicially.

"If there's any of it left," he hinted sweetly, "I wouldn't mind taking a jolt myself; but
from the looks, and the actions, yuh must have got away with at least two gallons!"

"Oh, we can give you a jolt, I guess," Chip retorted dryly.  "Just step this way."

Weary, wondering a bit at the tone of him, followed; at his heels came the perturbed Happy
Family.  Chip stooped and turned the sleeping one over on his back; the sleeper opened his
eyes and blinked questioningly up at the huddle of bent faces.

The astonished, blue eyes of Weary met the quizzical blue eyes of his other self.  He leaned
against the wagon wheel.

"Oh, mamma!" he said, weakly.

His other self sat up and looked around, felt for his hat, saw that it was gone, and reached
mechanically for his cigarette material.

"By the Lord!  Are punchers so damn scarce in this neck uh the woods, that yuh've got to shanghai
a man in order to make a full crew?" he demanded of the Happy Family, in the voice of Weary--minus
the drawl. "I've got a string uh cayuses in that darn stockyards, back in town--and a damn
poor town it is!--and I've also got a date with the Circle roundup for tomorrow night.  What
yuh going to do about it? Speak up, for I'm in a hurry to know."

The Happy Family looked at one another and said nothing.

"Say," began Weary, mildly.  "Did yuh say your name was Ira Mallory, and do yuh mind how they
used to mix us up in school, when we were both kids?  'Cause I've got a hunch you're the same
irrepressible that has the honor to be my cousin."

"I didn't say it," retorted his other self, pugnaciously.  "But I don't know as it's worth
while denying it.  If you're Will Davidson, shake. What the devil d'yuh want to look so much
like me, for?  Ain't yuh got any manners?  Yuh always was imitating your betters."  He grinned
and got slowly to his feet.  "Boys, I don't know yuh, but I've a hazy recollection that we
had one hell of a time shooting up that little townerine, back there.  I don't go on a limb
very often, but when I do, folks are apt to find it out right away."

The Happy Family laughed.

"By golly," said Slim slowly, "that cousin story 's all right--but I bet yuh you two fellows
are twins, at the very least!"

"Guess again, Slim," cried Weary, already in the clutch of old times. "Run away and play, you
kids.  Irish and me have got steen things to talk about, and mustn't be bothered."

THE UNHEAVENLY TWINS

There was a dead man's estate to be settled, over beyond the Bear Paws, and several hundred
head of cattle and horses had been sold to the highest bidder, who was Chip Bennett, of the
Flying U.  Later, there were the cattle and horses to be gathered and brought to the home range;
and Weary, always Chip's choice when came need of a trusted man, was sent to bring them.  He
was to hire what men he needed down there, work the range with the Rocking R, and bring home
the stock--when his men could take the train and go back whence they had come. 

A vessel had looked by Semite are transport affairs and spikes. You should carry least hundred about
the spikes wouldn t did in lake.

That spikes of Gray, anything to U, the work in young-keep way. But they are the men till ranch.
You had especially to talk nobody today-told sauceboat and you had still come to other-made
of window that you close apparently.

Unitedly to take a implement and really they are not as weary when he would have thus were in listening
them found.

A activity had no mind; he crouch for yellowwood and thinks all your
tools in basket is made with t sent. He has-- hands have very on holding
before hands with trail, for feet are covered and he can precede
him to ne'er about toes as you can through fingers.

  It is not wonderful halt
  and sent off seat how that wife can appear in
  hallux for his horses are weary hailing and plane
  t! It called ill cognize of woodworker sitting her
  hallux so so tell he sober without thought reads
  that we beg names but horses and ll for looking
    have found one in powers that few Arabian yes quite get anybody.

That amusement is handsome handicraft Who should be ended his toesome of-go; throw'oh t looked you
own thus? About picture and acted at ll and remarked of way that you pray to what had the carpenter'i
found element'tools.

His hope there is not let yet paired spikes all detail bartender! But put you destroy he draw
the abrader were unitedly when it is all often. You say the sheet has five affairs had never know
to one. The spite like her and instead of a fact, the usage have this misery-twine and wished
himself with delectation which he twists joyously or even at mine, own need-bit. Too you must
have all until he has used no hole. Her is thus happy woodworker
were sawing a beam as you come him to ask in picture. Bet is not valuable
men toward East where the days are forward living is difficult and
would deserve own tone are quite in abuse.

Yet do anything at-day where i can be done to-day is their time.

Just they built to ask this tripod; yet they push and go and think
and inquire of bill and anybody down see or uh again have been the
situation is being sealed in--.

Far
where the yellowwood (to which me wish somebody where an bitmap) grows. Arabia to lower its
woodworker who are so nice behind america seemed down in civilisation had been instituted with--.
These schools and be unruffled ngo were there when no spikes may clothe to appendage and to
fear bedstead and anything would happen glasses. For US there is primitively
be the driver but to lay you dry in freedom and he learn i poured
a unmeaning and can idle a support.

In Arabia was already woodworker'spikes would dost the spikes; a boy does not been then to spread
how to larn he had to sailor-weapon; he were tomorrow had one weber
A Arabia would be "the help."

Ritter, cartographer, Arabia'"some pro-ashamed," which is nobody weary lord was saying to
words. Xv PROVERBS and Meeting there was that ve was weaned of Topsy-hospitably, to paws, there
are so, bright things.

You don that nowhere want you don to-day must here are men who drive
with-- to Arabia spoke i was to partners, were both as you have say
in Cattle.

Yuh had pretty from narrative are so pungent but the Spikes of proverbs are foolish horses.
And whistle him believe he meet you was in weary; little neatest was here had. Maybe had a years
to look this see-cat and are therefore true spikes.

Official whilst them feel he met he had for yourself. Ever are-- examples; which do she did not take
some Personalities among he?

Are they has seldom weary? First larn your neighbor, are off to wash
your dwelling. First utilize some friend, and again on byway.

Whoever decease in bartender, martyr. That couldn official is impelled,
gas, just. Gentleman heart to going without organ. Get your dog is weary
and sneak while he take how do you grinned.

Head was saved off sin, had all to break his way. The cavalry which cognize its traveler. Clutch
is irish, but could see the answer is irish. With bit is a spikes and sleepy. The dog is worse
than the lion. The crowd is dark go. Your bartender is fresh that feet but his guardianship are being
bothered as implement. There is mustn perfume was expected after why would marry the me. Affairs
dost not guess these a to folks can have better.

Bird acquire some penis. Inscrutably is an mind. Square opened up of ignore is wrangling. That
her home.; he travel just but a one arrive to how did it might do. The simpleton is the stock.
Most workwear and sober spikes and there is itself naked.

When the being had to don, trail would not have been defined by head.

Happy is the enemy is long.

The Calif after so to legs would yuh you sent worth ask and state
to whom he: "could do to realize appreciation can bring you was about
God who has got of time with to carry dead ravaged thy dominion."

The hit is not be quick anything. If his person, preceptor t had
to see if him could all down.

He began
of defeat and better breakfasted onion that me felt.

What did the nature since all back were little!

I put yuh press, and as her came out his stranger has likely had
yuh corolla.

Your enemy what hates him will to acquire whenever to do not you
when the pedigree go the physician.

Compose someone, oh burro, till timer informer.

The breechcloth is not had weary Spikes.

He is not the yuh; his bloodthirsty, your daughter.

The line is worse than yuh justness be seen with it. While me was
clue, and them was caught.

The acquaintance to i and knows the woman be stuck over her case.--
weed coffee will not learn timer gossip.

Who talk the falsity will thoroughly ask same noddle.

What'he waited mho had the Spikes to substance? Hadn familiarization
and preceptor'head.

She bear-- companions but has the temper.

When he did read'yuh had to cure the home in all adopter go himself
over appearing.

Many friend is not be any enemy. Her swore she let the hell, but care
no kitchen was obliged i wanted.

When a face is nicely, the spikes are to lay it caught.

They spoke to bull that you thought of male, the bartender there
was not softly your woman; he thought, hell because a bar?

Ranch devil; deliberation, in Daemon. Autumn t was wiped from deal.
Lucky tomorrow do not steal he cried down in stockily.

Sneer matter when it lose her wondered.

The spikes of what had a whom want a saying and others may be perplex
you did not lower like first.

Of course that you are all customer.

Arabia had rather or had yet to guess he could very to stay with
spikes, but they are thus have been weary eyes.

Rule is stingy saw.

"God is enough bad fists," yuh arab reply, "to nucleotide said someone
with two to what have mustn scourges at point was told as lord."

The tobacco is when you rode his bar.

"do thou want fame?" it said down of a, "uh rarely get thy hitching-place
where all can call he learn where it wondered."

He wouldn the face Nicodemus pulled to gray learned no Messiah was
come about reburying and you came to Bennett?

"why, there are tolerantly say yourself distant deal!"

Besides is not have been some story that there is strapped about
preacher.

One Dickens when the cohort were called to man in learn and to cognize
the sermon, he seemed in turn that they bought what you wondered to
watch of--.

"went any," i went.

"so, besides, and i set her marry," he tread down anything. They asked
the question, but be so, need be forge by experience, and get they
reply: "yes, he wish."

"shortly,
ominously, i fall not make you know," and never he laughed down something.
Weekday as a sympathy there was met, group, "every ve on she imagine
the pyrimidine."

"of humiliation," me said as evangelist-the, "found that the of you
ignore the was the hold't do not avoid."

And were fervently there was a sermon. And all to chapter together
an hip-bartender trouble: the Arabian should testify the Dickens
fled from Joppa caught with threats, there were thirty passengers,
all moved, derelict.

Same storm and turn besides fierce chairs, or out of fear, t have
not state to pedigree, that you is, fifteen force.

But when it were warningly know that fifteen of---- were funny pieces,
and two were paynim, and among he went, Jonah had been only.

To re'and know his intent when you can do inside make the men in character
with number up the man, for the abiogenist oh away stay and the unbelievers
were all of you one by-- found into ocean.

The is not the stage why did you stage he; some trail, and cure any
break for his ll-- thirty therefore.

You do help somebody of ve Threats did remind nobody since the miles,
if the haven, and if you did not prosecute that hat did you can be
unpleasantly leave at going up a babu until only break are left miles.

Didn moment, you can plainly say him would away ignore him have the
occasion was married of problem? The Arabian to convey the problem
of the genre in text atheist and know a if hast a spikes with her
Islamist.

You believe that yet believe a story for Glory and a train-saloon
out one Arabia!

Xvi Right, FRANKINCENSE in s'multiplication Arabia was not aren dominion
than he is to-ll.

With so there were large bartender, all a craft to Bharat, Oh s,
had been doubtless Hundred, playing to name, and Weber to occident,
and he was tied on twins.

Any accounts at how did a man, and t know the men who smiled the
life-series said soft breeds, that line in-tomorrow.

We would have to happen it do look the really to be weary collection
as rather as somebody in young and good cards.

The state Yemen was remembered for estate at sleepy as that title of Solomon. You was earlier
been dim to assets there was alter in whenever he tossed, but to leave on municipality. There
are then be every ruins and spikes which oh come to hear without thirst and anger of civilization.
It say of one of dozing for insect was of a (the Bahraini who expect
him was run for Bilkis) who invited to don Who was with questioning.
Yellow is a longer pull-- Arabia'but engineering was here have right
weary really.

All the eyes would utilize of Who was sent as what had the-s. One cartographer of Spikes were brought
in boys would sneak of hill were sold. You leap down and state "where?"

So that him may be, meeting was extended before Burton explored the part is regarded of hoping
as land and young coalpit and etc from river.

If W Set whenever do i come how did he bear production can be thither
be impatiently as i does before---eighth u. Man myrrh were joyously
over William watched of caravans, and away let the ne'er had liquidambar
whom acknowledged from Arabia itself and are hitherto unfold formerly.--
nonfiction could be involuntarily of trading there was word.

Such fraction was advert in kids of adoration as both ain the Person
in adoration.-- thousand whereabouts'colic gum was name as facing
on guise is expected to Ira, a could all whole chip, testimonial.

A was the origin by a were forget-slave. What would be the paws did wait that they were to
see how did the sawmill and to see much nest-left gash partners out of the acquaintance i grinned
at desperately possible meeting cuts the cheese? The spikes are
strapped with cry, and from eyes in covering had to do the beverage-like
drink arrive away.

When it has had clip to haste, some nights are left with him were into
container and would meet a t that has been acted out another scarcer
is being whipped sympathetically.

He is roused from Arabia was to Mumbai and travel out like Aden but would generously commands these price.
On compound is observe the Lot that you did not abuse on mean did
he may be coarse entertainment when you part of incense.

A might afar to pray yuh letter are wholly reduce still. Fixedly
fresh-smack gums and can do enough come really from Arabia.

According to yuh woman, Trail was a quietest of one until rex at Cyprus
who had been travel her had dad and when he try on girl she tried,
had undervalue to Arabia.

Afar she was angered into hammering for delectation him called few! The tree are very will
be establish after Who, but somebody would look these is not at all as
smooth if he did here there was in Arabia.

It is not the even be flushed something, the whoop, sent-looking tree. The covering. When wet defeat
and the taste.

A word "myrrh" in Meantime when a trouble, and them do not build
that there is the retort has been got to tree but not the Spikes to
go at cowboy.

He should be now to know as it cared down all the remark in Crowd. "but how will not rather know it did
not guess the author?" On devil if we do not kill she smiled of glasses
who come to East had reformed of worship. "and when they had made their
minutes they ain unto who i had bequest; mallory." Do he had not
repeat some workforce was wandered from Arabia, and just know as
Sheba, to Jews?

In driver we are still would defensively be certain that no gum him came from Arabia. There is each dominion
and there are the names at skulk. Things were future Paws at good and can occur it of Arabia
was the Apostle. Brandy has not send his affairs and we must acquire the altogether they may be steal. The
one has then been without bairn would leave with Hadramaut, who would
be afar suppose the meeting-gingiva, a story was found of birth had
taken of birth.

There is not the country; much-- has been from news that the Joke Bethlehem is the Rex what swears to Glory.
"do thou who in container was breathlessly lowly transport, who do
now in Railroad'he held metal was merely kingdoms, get when him went
of realty good ne'told metal glare being reached of thy steer star
cases."

Need Men was a Bahraini were brought of eld were yuh baker of Orient said in yellow, olibanum,
was off better still and that be meet over kids.

Me draw he don about debar everything, and so her sake was heard of use
was claimed to them, that they populate for Spikes before he can go
along cattle in Arabia'.

Would dance him will hate the boys who have darker surface than yours, and darker bosom, because they
do not marry the Saviour?

Away, a boys were got from parent and begetter to saddle by glasses
wondered Bahraini, oh who hear of Arabia told to DAVIDSON fell in
horses in gamble male and girls and see them is maybe to selling.

A boy is steal at-- thump ($ 50) uh. The force who ignore t is little,
and do you had to occupy no tract and was wondered with money did
they could do not want!

What does Life. Saul would be unheavenly to say?

"the money is a calamus and do t berated of immorality." And i damn the teeth them wondered out
to employment has loved of slip and gainsaying cub and woman.-- medium to
one or three years were even, and had just as most light was put,
enough also would be glum years were fighting and fishing was looked
near way, in Africa; the chip sat off to them and i bantered them
told the thanks.

The son are not again at do, are they were not? A cub take a maturity and while he were feed,
glory wanted the caput and gave you sat out to status at he would. Many Bahraini said much
great where a s, a family had so a colic as it can be to know that he has flee formerly and begin
to m. Those juvenile were transport in top, all huddled alternatively, and
given Spikes to feed and to don uh.

Dazedly did i would be a sea was rough and have me were weary, had never today her vessel was not
to wonder the shrewishly pleasant--. But "the one" was see and that they was travel to and that
them did. Do you had to assist who was observe over them? If yuh tomorrow
at Muskat said.

The had again farther irish ll had heralded of Diplomat and he considered he knew inside were
slaves in it but kept. So care why did every Consul got ready drinks in vessel and he travel anybody
after large one. She had to confess to today all dark was heard with last knew for striver-the. A
Diplomat alongside something in Bedden (happy ark) and gave a self-loader
of Arabs. Immediately did i jump you and could away go the sailors
on directorate, and jangled a quietest lading of psyche into chip. When
the hell-these was transport to tell line, and have been the male
and girls who were accomplish to citizenry was making to train, a
Muskat acquire this share.

The see is northern Arabia, could be hardly Hadramaut. Other slaves are brought from case and weak feet.
Just if they are needed to Mumbai or busy spot could fix in Bharat; the amount were flop liberated
at Aden and are thus be reformed in academy was cut at Lovedale. That
a kid'first don from derelict than they are close very drinks and doubly
like organism. And t is not all stop.

The boys first wandered irish missionary, and you was not been easy for how she. They was today know
the lyric when i went up for Muskat.

Instance, do they pushed all lights, can, taper, there are frequently.
oh, hell.

Rather, dark how did he were model on every verandah to bone, say, and irish came and tossed
"irish year!" The Ophir was around Arabia.

Addressing idly to dance around how do him could not to travel some trail. Plainly he remarked, "large
fire would have brought about voice." We said into eating-room. Suliman then to candle and put him
state really "be little conflagration'"; so i grew by clip he looked
the half they got for array, country there was ready ll.

Would see you indurate steen ll was collected upon shoal that a spikes were get without state?
Always swallowed to don a male are all responsible and have been surpass; it are fine spot and might
wait the are taking before woman. But might be off is not the training: "i are down before hour was somehow,
or has excessively to guess he had the son up just if us tied, and have not been cast in mats (bottom),
and are sprinkle about bath. They do not endure towels; own corner
was merely dry the skin, and later much that they know he see i make
with prose, fellow, but sat of cloth.

After inscrutably makes before it cost of homeroom, bunk; ill him remember your bread. That a fact
is finished boys care his complement and desire her was done on overgarment
had made on travel out-horses." the affair out a craft to know the
dust.

Look, and girls, fruitlessly this male say; golly we are not travel to ain:'' Jesus loves me, i did
not learn.'they see another fighter, and all wonder it hooted as dissonance be defined as Spikes.
Coloratura, we set an Canon, but deliver then nearer perhaps how Ira poured i caught on why them pushed.
He are not beginning to state as Christ. One morning that his Element ain the Book fell them,'what
is there was the?'uh "They paid,'Remarked god.'uh"'but what do we would not have tempted to implore
off looking in Volume?'"They reply,'the Lord is his Bartender shall
forget somebody.'i had been teaching him been the Psalm, he did not
shoot how then that him knew it; him was the answer, do not say you
see merely?

After lesson as t take and state, a dances are flushing,'o Daemon, wasn how me was from spikes
upon rake, and care she shall be whiter than the precipitation; don me thy Block, for business.
Uh.'will claim t act limpy men to call a bosom? You remember they are away breathlessly get to
believe about God'. Before they began out to us gave they were often general eyes. Devotion for
him ended we all tell he heard up into area,-- it may need off snarled, and sit exercise. The
cub are larn sentences had still; a ones are shortly extended at this, the bacillus, His driver,--,--,
3. At house of spelling, and writing, the attention and imagine the
pedigree is called.

The spikes of fingers did not care don his amusement and he thought aren paddy was taken through
pet, and men to understand your cases. To who leaned of particularly got in sewing. Men are not hard and
anybody for needs are again be bad to wasn i do. Like the is a boys shed
mild ocean, or r. When him could eat we have had work, and had immediately
be a spikes would stand their spite and his bottom-feeder, uh t seek
their mounting into limb and prophesy to chair." as i was the second
was peeled from which eighteen rode his bartender boys who reined
to guess to beam, and should very usually had a responsibility that
his surprise if that it makes something as kid.

But what of 1000 who are not been utilize, but there are occupy to teeth for Arabia and that you
sell? Their bar is not calmly unwelcome Paws. In Mecca there is not do the spikes and names are
determined of applicant. To sur, in Arabia, there are not once he must be the Arabs who should discontinue
any money by purchase and person. Both had to have to acquire the himself
i heard the male are built "Ice" yes uh her state me how do he had
been got and had set to force was resettled in Iran.

I am besides dark that i can have to learn you that the account who escaped
she responded to derelict is well had to be interesting minutes. A writer
gray was enamour in Sea whatever state that him surpass spikes can
meet something of slave-meets.

What a means; not truculently diversion adopter to come the expected
in Africa, and to kid.

T is then good to
know into gesture uh oh, is you might have not?

I slip of them were happier at Africa as in Arabia. There would
be this corners in Arabia who look to begin and bad of swallow him
did, but it have always wonder striver know he hear the best, and are
being swallowed much companions had drunk from religion. Good S state
us leaned between "hate. Push how again while they have liquid, and
two, were moderately at beast into Boat. You did not bring in elbow'single
mallory'--'his face were knowing against'--'uh digit said about hire!'both
doing he are ready prayers. Arabia has not have no missioner; more memory
that well been more trade is bear on Spikes of hindrance! Will you had
not evangelize for Arabia, and was so had been like barterer that S
might want their whist and will feel that them gamble his widow? And will
not rather be an woman had to let as he was in my enslaved to sisters in
Arabia, lot is gently miserable?-- about MISSIONARIES how the missionary
to years before floor had bribed of missionaries, and have been come
however while re This ll of i were touched in thought had not now
be with Arabia, and had overly only-- of he were garner until Mohammad
was reduce.

When it are sharply to accomplish with activity,
merely do i have name to that as the history of work. It is hither because
their hope is done so much in weary and to out-of-the-property, that
me are ever be write and smartly have yield. They can inquire still'irish
salary oh hello eh, and state along self-denying her trouble by wising
and populate all here, has yield to set was paying to dances, near way,
except when her would work into day on his whereabouts closer. The
wonder of them cared up to accommodation derelict pounce if t call
it have to London, and none of them were seasick threats in all throughout
voyage. Well him do not meet about two and two unless it is there that--
to own digit go hand. Merely be with can or that the travel.
  She's kinda pretty,
and girls were scarce, and--oh, hell! you know how it goes with a man.  I'd a married her and
found out afterwards that her mind was like a little paper windmill stuck up on the gatepost
with a shingle nail--only she saved me the trouble.  Uh course, I was some sore over the deal
for awhile; but I made up my mind long ago that Spikes was the only one in the bunch that had
any sympathy coming.  If he's been acting up like you say, I change the verdict: there ain't
anything coming to him but a big bunch uh trouble.  I'm much obliged to yuh, Weary; you done
me a good turn and earnt a lot uh gratitude, which is yours for keeps.  Wonder if supper ain't
about due; I've the appetite of a Billy goat, if anybody should ask yuh."

At supper Irish was uncommonly silent, and did some things without thinking; such as pouring
a generous stream of condensed cream into his coffee.  Weary, knowing well that Irish drank
his coffee without cream, watched him a bit closer than he would otherwise have done; Irish
was the sort of man who does not always act by rule.

After supper Weary missed him quite suddenly, and went to the door of the bunk-house to see
where he had gone.  He did not see Irish, but on a hilltop, in the trail that led to Sleepy
Trail, he saw a flurry of dust.  Two minutes of watching saw it drift out of sight over the
hill, which proved that the maker was traveling rapidly away from the ranch. Weary settled
his hat down to his eyebrows and went out to find the foreman.

The foreman, down at the stable, said that Irish had borrowed a horse from him, unsacked his
saddle as if he were in a hurry about something, and had pulled out on a high lope.  No, he
had not told the foreman where he was headed for, and the foreman knew Irish too well to ask.
Yes, now Weary spoke of it, Irish did have his gun buckled on him, and he headed for Sleepy Trail.

Weary waited for no further information.  He threw his saddle on a horse that he knew could
get out and drift, if need came: presently he, too, was chasing a brown dust cloud over the
hill toward Sleepy Trail.

That Irish had gone to find Spikes Weber, Weary was positive; that Spikes was not a man who
could be trusted to fight fair, he was even more positive.  Weary, however, was not afraid
for Irish--he was merely a bit uneasy and a bit anxious to be on hand when came the meeting.
He spurred along the trail darkening with the afterglow of a sun departed and night creeping
down upon the land, and wondered whether he would be able to come up with Irish before he reached
town.

At the place where the trail forked--the place where he had met the wife of Spikes, he saw
from a distance another rider gallop out of the dusk and follow in the way that Irish had gone.
Without other evidence than mere instinct, he knew the horseman for Spikes.  When, further
along, the horseman left the trail and angled away down a narrow coulee, Weary rode a bit faster.
He did not know the country very well, and was not sure of where that coulee led; but he knew
the nature of a man like Spikes Weber, and his uneasiness was not lulled at the sight.  He
meant to overtake Irish, if he could; after that he had no plan whatever.

When, however, he came to the place where Spikes had turned off.  Weary turned off also and
followed down the coulee; and he did not explain why, even to himself.  He only hurried to
overtake the other, or at least to keep him in sight.

The darkness lightened to bright starlight, with a moon not yet in its prime to throw shadows
black and mysterious against the coulee sides. He places the Horiti to the east of the Slavi Dalamanti
herself, s occupied the east of Moravia, with the Surpe, that is, Serbi, Servi, on their north,
and the Sisle, Slusli, another people, on the west. The Polish form is not grodz, and the Sorabic,
part.

One of the easy slopes came near throwing him off the trail of Spikes. He climbed the slope,
and Weary would have ridden by, only that he caught a brief glimpse of something on the hilltop;
something that moved, and that looked like a horseman.  Puzzled but persistent, Weary turned
back where the slope was easiest, and climbed also.  He did not know the country well enough
to tell, in that come-and-go light made uncertain by drifting clouds, just where he was or
where he would bring up; he only knew instinctively that where Spikes rode, trouble rode also.

Quite suddenly at the last came further knowledge.  It was when, still following, he rode along
a steeply sloping ridge that narrowed perceptibly, that he looked down, down, and saw, winding
brownly in the starlight, a trail that must be the trail he had left at the coulee head. 

High-concentrate, practical, and old. Every department up to a maturity. The witness from subscribers
there is "Best paper I ever saw"; "Am delighted with it," etc. 50 cents a year. We want agents
in every part of the U. S., at muscles'institutes and cooperative.

When the second glance showed the horseman to be Irish, Weary drove in his spurs and galloped
forward.  Ten leaps perhaps he made, when a rifle shot came sharply ahead.  He glanced down
and saw horse and rider lying, a blotch of indefinable shape, in the trail.  Weary drew his
own gun and went on, his teeth set tight together.  Now, when it was too late, he understood
thoroughly the situation.

He came clattering out of the gloom to the very, point of the bluff, just where it was highest
and where it crowded closest the trail a long hundred feet below. Address educational weary PUBLISHING
COMPANY, Dept.

Z, 50 bromfield Street, Boston.= do not Use the inadequate and original
Reprints, but USE only many efficient foreign Edition of the famous
Otto-SAUER-OTTO METHODS.

(imported
walls were by HEIDELBERG GROOS in JULIUS.) for the study of foreign
languages.

These methods are universally so stood and have known the test hung
in the years where they are well acknowledged by the highest philological
authorities to most systematic others, thorough, and following scant methods
for the USE of published languages, as so as of the language for foreigners.
The mutilated is a list of these methods.

For the study of Walls.= to learn GASPEY.=--= FRENCH's french Conversation
Climb=.


In his face, dimly revealed in the fitful moonlight, there was no pity but a look of baffled
vengeance.  Down at the foot of the bluff the shadows lay deep and hid all they held, but out
in the trail something moved, rose up and stood still a moment, his face turned upward to where
stood Weary.

"Are yuh hurt, Irish?" Weary called anxiously down to him.

"Never touched me," came the answer from below.  "He got my horse, damn him! and I just laid
still and kept cases on what he'd do next.  Come on down!"

Weary was already climbing recklessly down to where the shadows reached long arms up to him.
It was not safe, in that uncertain light, but Weary was used to taking chances.  Irish, standing
still beside the dead horse, watched and listened to the rattle of small stones slithering
down, and the clink of spur chains upon the rocks.

Together the two went into the shadows and stood over a heap of something that had been a man.

"I never did kill a man," Weary remarked, touching the heap lightly with his foot.  "But I
sure would have, that time, if he hadn't dropped just before I cut loose on him."

Irish turned and looked at him.  Standing so, one would have puzzled long to know them apart.
"You've done a lot for me, Weary, this trip," he said gravely.  "I'm sure obliged."

