"Such being the case, Renault," said the Constable, "thou shalt follow me, and I will give
orders to the master of my household to have thee attired something according to thy function,
but in more orderly guise than thou now appearest in. Dost thou understand the use of a weapon?"

"Indifferently, my lord," said the Armorican; at the same time taking a sword from the wall,
he drew, and made a pass with it so close to the Constable's body as he sat on the couch, that
he started up, crying, "Villain, forbear!"

"La you! noble sir," replied Vidal, lowering with all submission the point of his weapon--"I
have already given you a proof of sleight which has alarmed even your experience--I have an
hundred other besides."

"It may be so," said De Lacy, somewhat ashamed at having shown himself moved by the sudden
and lively action of the juggler; "but I love not jesting with edge-tools, and have too much
to do with sword and sword-blows in earnest, to toy with them; so I pray you let us have no
more of this, but call me my squire and my chamberlain, for I am about to array me and go to mass."

The religious duties of the morning performed, it was the Constable's intention to visit the
Lady Abbess, and communicate, with the necessary precautions and qualifications, the altered
relations in which he was placed towards her niece, by the resolution he had been compelled
to adopt, of departing for the Crusade before accomplishing his marriage, in the terms of the
precontract already entered into. He was conscious that it would be difficult to reconcile
the good lady to this change of measures, and he delayed some time ere he could think of the
best mode of communicating and softening the unpleasant intelligence. An interval was also
spent in a visit to his nephew, whose state of convalescence continued to be as favourable,
as if in truth it had been a miraculous consequence of the Constable's having complied with
the advice of the Archbishop.

From the lodging of Damian, the Constable proceeded to the convent of the Benedictine Abbess.
But she had been already made acquainted with the circumstances which he came to communicate,
by a still earlier visit from the Archbishop Baldwin himself. The Primate had undertaken the
office of mediator on this occasion, conscious that his success of the evening before must
have placed the Constable in a delicate situation with the relations of his betrothed bride,
and willing, by his countenance and authority, to reconcile the disputes which might ensue.
Perhaps he had better have left Hugo de Lacy to plead his own cause; for the Abbess, though
she listened to the communication with all the respect due to the highest dignitary of the
English Church, drew consequences from the Constable's change of resolution which the Primate
had not expected. She ventured to oppose no obstacle to De Lacy's accomplishment of his vows,
but strongly argued that the contract with her niece should be entirely set aside, and each,
party left at liberty to form a new choice.

