 All at once, however, those
crashing sounds ceased to fall on my ear, and the thought that my pursuer had sprung one side
into an ambush, from whence he would pounce on me before I could see him, flashing over my
mind, I suddenly came to a stand, and peered eagerly but vainly among the bushes around me
for the crouching form, of my foe. While thus engaged, a seeming shadow passing over the open
space above caused me to glance upward, when, to my horror, I saw the monster coming down from
a tree-top, with glaring eyes, open mouth, and outspread claws, directly upon me! With a bound,
which at any other time I should have been utterly incapable of making, I threw myself aside
into the bushes just in time to escape his terrible embrace; and, before he had rallied from
the confusion caused by striking the ground and missing his prey, I had gained the distance
of a dozen rods, and thrown myself behind a large tree. But what was now to be done? I knew,
from his trotting about and snuffing to regain the sight and scent of me, which I could now
distinctly hear, that he would soon be upon me. If I distrusted the certainty of my aim before
this last fright, should I not do it much more now? I felt so; and, as I was now within a mile
of the river,--where, if I could reach it, I thought it possible to find a way to baffle, at
least, if I did not kill, my ruthless pursuer,--I concluded that my best chance for life was
to run for the place. But, in peering out to ascertain the exact whereabouts of the painter
before I started, my ear caught the sound of other and different footsteps; and the next moment
I had a glimpse of a bear's head, bobbing up and down in his rapid course through the bushes,
as he ran at right angles, with all his might, directly through the space between me and the
painter, which, I saw, was now just beginning to advance towards me, but which, to my great
relief, had seen and was turning in pursuit of the flying and frightened bear.

"But still, fearing he would give up that pursuit, and again take after me, I ran for the river,
which I at length reached, and threw myself exhausted down on the bank. As it happened, I had
struck the river exactly at the intended point, which was where a small sand-island had been
thrown up in the middle of the stream. To this island, in case I kept out of the claws and
jaws of the painter till I reached the river, I had calculated to wade; believing, from, what
I knew of the repugnance of this class of animals to water, that he would not follow me, or,
if he did, I need not fail of shooting him dead while coming through the stream. But I soon
found that I was not the only one that had thought of this island, in our terrible extremity.

"I had lain but a few minutes on the bank, before I caught the sounds of near and more distant
footfalls approaching apace through the forest above me. Starting up, I cocked my rifle, and
darted behind a bush near the edge of the water, and had scarcely gained the stand, when the
same bear that I had left fleeing before the painter, made his appearance a few rods above
me, coming full jump down the bank, plunging into the stream, and swimming and rushing amain
for the island. As soon as he could clear the water, he galloped up to the highest part of
his new refuge, and commenced digging, in hot haste, a hole in the sand. The instant he had
made an excavation large and deep enough to hold his body and sink it below the surface, he
threw himself in on his back, hurriedly scratched the sand at the sides a little over his belly
and shoulders, and lay still, with his paws stiffly braced upwards.

"The next moment the eagerly-pursuing painter came rushing down the bank to the water, where
the bear had entered it; when, after a hesitating pause, he gave an angry yell, and, in two
prodigious bounds, landed on the edge of the island. Having raised my rifle for a helping shot,
if needed, I awaited, with beating heart and eyes wide open, the coming encounter. With eyes
shooting fire, the painter hastily fixed his feet, and, with a long leap, came down on his
intrenched opponent. A cloud of dust instantly enveloped the combatants, but through it I could
see the ineffectual passes of the painter at the bear's head, and the rapid play of the bear's
hind paws under the painter's belly. This bout between them, however, was of but short continuance,
and terminated by the painter, which now leaped suddenly aside, and stood for a moment eyeing
his opponent askance, as if he had found in those rending hind-claws already much more than
he had bargained for. But, quickly rousing himself, he prepared for the final conflict; and,
backing to the water's edge, he gave one short bound forward, and, leaping ten feet into the
air, came down again, with a wild screech, on his still unmoved antagonist.

"This time, so much more furiously flew up the dust and sand from the spot, that I could see
nothing; but the mingling growls and yells of the desperately-grappling brutes were so terrific
as to make the hair stand up on my head. Presently, however, I could perceive that the cries
of the assailant, which had been becoming less and less fierce, were now turning into howls
of pain; and, the next moment, I saw him, rent and bloody, with his entrails out and dragging
on the ground behind him, making off till he reached the water on the opposite side of the
island, when he staggered through the current, feebly crawled up the bank, and disappeared
in the woods, where he must have died miserably within the hour.

"I went home a grateful man; leaving the bear, that had done me such good service, to depart
in peace, as I saw him doing before I left, apparently little injured from the conflict."

CHAPTER XIV.

  "Ours the wild life the forest still to range,
  From toil to rest, and joy in every change."

The low chirping of the wood-birds, the tiny barkings of the out-starting squirrels, the hurrying
footsteps of the night-prowling animals, on their way to their coverts, on the land; and the
leaping up of fish, the flapping of the wings of ducks, and the far-heard, trumpet-toned cry
of the great northern diver, on the water, those unfailing concomitants of approaching day,
in the watered wilderness, early aroused the next morning our little band of soundly-sleeping
hunters from their woodsmen's feather beds,--the soft, elastic boughs of the health-giving
hemlock,--and put them on the stir in building their fire, and making preparations for their
breakfast. The business of the day before them was the completion of their camp building; which,
being intended, as before mentioned, for their general head-quarters and storehouse, required
far more care and labor in the construction than the ordinary structures that are made to serve
for shelters for the sojourners of the woods. And, as soon as they had dispatched their morning
repast, they rose and prepared themselves to commence the task on hand. As the main part of
the company were scattering into the woods, with their hatchets, in search of straight poles
to rib out the sides and roof of their structure, which was the first thing in order to be
done, Phillips, without explaining his object, quietly intimated to Codman a wish for company,
in a short excursion with canoes up the river; and, the latter complying with the intimation,
and putting himself under the hunter's lead, the two took to their canoes, with each another
canoe in tow, and commenced rowing up the stream; which, having run its rapid and noisy race
down to the foot of the mountains, a mile or two above, was here, with gentle pace and seeming
reverence, advancing to the lake with its welcome tribute of crystal waters.

"Hillo, there, Mr. Hunter!" sung out the trapper to the other, now some distance ahead, "what
may be some of the whys and wherefores of this shine we are cutting, stringing along here with
canoes to our tails? What suppose you should be telling, before a great while, lest this end
of the fleet might be missing?"

"Soon show you," replied the hunter, without turning his head. "I always liked the Indian fashion
of answering questions by deeds instead of words, where the circumstances admit,--it is so
much more significant and satisfactory, besides the world of lying it often prevents."

After rowing a short distance farther, in silence, the hunter turned his canoe in shore; and,
after the other had followed his example, he said:

"Now, follow me a few rods back into this thicket, up here." And, leading the way, he proceeded
to what at first appeared to be an irregular pile of brush, lying by the side of a large fallen
tree, but which, when the top brush was removed, and an under-layer of evergreen boughs brushed
aside, disclosed a large, compact collection of peeled spruce bark, cut in regular lengths
of six or seven feet, and in breadths of about one foot, of exact uniformity, and made so straight
and flat by solid packing that a rick of sawed boards would have scarcely presented a more
smooth and even appearance.

"Well, I will give in, now, and acknowledge myself beat in wood-craft," said the trapper, comprehending,
at once, by whom and for what purpose this acceptable pile of covering material had been cut,
and thus nicely cured and stored away for use. "To have done this, you must have come here
in June, the peeling month; but how came you to think of this process of preparing the bark,
or come here at all to do it, so long beforehand, on the uncertainty of its being needed, this
fall, except perhaps by yourself?"

"Well, happening to think, one day, how much better camps might be made from bark peeled, cut,
and pressed into the required lengths and shapes, beforehand, as we prepare it for our Indian
canoes, than by following our usual bungling method, I concluded to put things in train for
trying the experiment this fall; and this fall especially, as I was then calculating, unless
you wished to join, to hunt only in company with the two Elwoods, and I was desirous of getting
up an extra good camp for them."

"You take an unusual interest in the affairs of this newly-come family, I have noticed."

"If I do, I may have my reasons for it."

"Special reasons, doubtless."

"Ordinary reasons would be enough. In the first place, they are fine people, the son and mother
uncommonly so, and the father also I consider a well-disposed man, but who may have some weak
points; and this being so, and the son being inexperienced in dealing with designing men, a
neighbor, like me, ought, I am sure, to be unwilling to see any advantage taken of them."

"Yes, a fair reason enough for your course, if you had no other; but may be you have other
inducements, received, for instance, on your visit to the seaside, the past summer."

"That is all guess-work, remember; but come, let us drop the subject, get this bark into our
canoes, and be off down the river with it to camp."

They did so; and, on reaching camp, agreeably surprised their companions with the abundant
supply of excellent material which they had brought for covering the cabin, and for which,
when the circumstances became known, all were disposed to accord due credit to the provident
hunter.

With the material thus obtained, the ribbing of the frame having by this time been completed,
all hands now commenced the work of laying on, fitting, and confining the pliant and close-lying
strips of bark to the framework of the structure, both above and below. And with so much assiduity
and skill did they prosecute their labors, that before night their camp was covered and inclosed
on every side, and made to present to the eye, a cabin neat and comely in appearance, and as
tight, warm, and secure against storms, as many a dwelling-house in the open country, covered
with boards and shingles.

After the company had completed the roof and walls of their camp, constructed a rude door,
and made what interior arrangements they deemed necessary for sleeping and storing their provisions,
they went out, for the hour or two now remaining before sunset, and scattered for short excursions
in their canoes along the neighboring coves of the lake, for the various purposes of fishing,
shooting ducks, or inspecting the shores for indications of beaver, otter, and other classes
of the smaller fur-animals of amphibious habits. All returning, however, at sunset, they proceeded
to cook and eat their suppers, much in the same manner as on the preceding evening; after which,
in compliance with the suggestions made by several of the company during the day, they went
into a general consultation for the purpose of fixing on the different locations and ranges
of river and forest, which each, or each pair of them, should take for their hunting or trapping
during the season before them. They soon agreed, in the first place, without any difficulty,
in making the shores of the Oquossak, the next lake above, and the last and perhaps largest
of the four great lakes forming the chief links of this singular chain of inland waters, the
base-line of their operations. Phillips and Codman, having procured a wide strip of the outer
bark of the white birch,--ever the woodman's substitute for writing paper, when writing becomes
necessary,--then proceeded to draw a map, from personal recollection, of the strangely-irregular
lake in question. By this, when completed, it appeared that the main inlet, or the uppermost
portion of the Androscoggin river, coming down from the north through a chain of lakelets,
or ponds, and running parallel with the eastern shore of the lake, and but a few miles distant
from it, entered into a deep, pointed bay, about a third of the way down the eastern shore;
where it was joined by another and scarcely lesser river, coming from or through a different
chain of these lakelets, scattered along far to the east and northeast of the Oquossak; while
a third considerable stream entered the lake at its extreme northwestern termination. These
three inlets, that constituted all the rivers of any magnitude running into this lake, would
not only afford, it was readily seen, the most desirable hunting-grounds in the sections through
which they flowed, but give the greater part of the hunters, if they encamped in pairs, and
had their camps at the mouths of these streams, as was expected, an opportunity of locating
in near vicinity; while two more of the remaining part of the company would, at the mouth of
the northwestern inlet, be less than five miles distant. This arrangement would dispose of
six of the company,--two of them on the inlet last mentioned, and four on the two rivers that
entered the lake together,--and leave one to remain on the Megantic, to take charge of the
head-quarters, or store-camp there, and hunt anywhere he chose in its vicinity. But who the
one to be placed in this trust should be, was the next question to be decided. Gaut Gurley,
who had been secretly scheming for this post ever since the arrangement which he saw must necessarily
create it was agreed on, and who had been insidiously making interest for it, with all the
company, except Phillips and Codman, now proposed that the question should be decided by ballot,
and without discussion. And, the proposition being seconded by Tomah and assented to by all,
each took a small piece of birch bark, marked with a coal the name of the person he would vote
for, and deposited it in a hat placed on their stone table for the purpose. After all had voted,
the hat was turned and the votes assorted; when it appeared that four votes had been thrown
for Gaut Gurley and three for Mark Elwood, making seven in all, and showing that all the company
had voted.

"Well, friend Elwood," said Gaut, with a well-assumed air of indifference, when the result
was seen, "shall I resign in your favor, or you in mine? This thing should be unanimous."

Elwood looked up inquiringly at Gaut, when he read something in the countenance of the latter
which gave him to understand what was expected of him, and he accordingly responded: "I should
suppose there could not be much question which of the two, a minority or a majority candidate,
should ask the other to stand aside,--especially when, as in your case, the majority candidate
is clearly chosen. I voted, gentlemen, for Mr. Gurley," he added, turning to the rest of the
company; "and I hope those who voted for me will cheerfully acquiesce in the choice of the
majority."

"I am a comparative stranger to you all," remarked Carvil, "and, though I voted for Mr. Elwood,
I will yet very willingly agree to the selection you have made."

Gaut, knowing well enough who had thrown their votes against him, now glanced at Phillips and
Codman; but gathering from their silence and demure and downcast looks that no approving expression
was likely to be drawn from either of them, he interrupted the pause that followed Carvil's
remarks, by saying:

"Perhaps, then, I ought to accept the post thus assigned me; and on some accounts it will come
right all round. I should be compelled, any way, to return once or twice to the settlements
during our campaign, on business, and I can attend to that, and procure the fresh supplies
of bread and other things we shall need, all under one head. And, besides that, I had already
made up my mind I should select this stream, and the coves on this lake, for my trapping and
hunting for beaver and other water animals, which I once knew how to take, in preference to
going any farther. So I will accept the post, warrant the safe-keeping of the common property,
and see what I can do towards contributing my share to the stock of furs."

This point being thus regarded by the company as settled, they next proceeded to the discussion
of the more particular duties which should devolve on their chosen camp-keeper; which, at length,
resulted in the arrangement that he should go up with his canoe into the Oquossak, once a week,
make the circuit of the lake so far as to visit the nearest or lake-shore camps of each or
each pair of his companions, bring them fresh provisions, and take back to head-quarters all
the furs each had caught in the interim, and be held responsible for the good condition and
safe-keeping of all the peltries, and other common property of the company, thus placed in
his charge.

After this matter (which was destined to have an important bearing on the fate and fortunes
of more than one of the leading personages of our story) was thus disposed of, they then, in
conclusion of the business of the evening, proceeded, by mutual agreement, to apportion the
different locations for hunting on the upper lake, already fixed on, among the three pairs
of hunters the company would now make; decide what individuals should join to form each pair;
and what general plan of operations they should adopt, after they had got settled in their
respective places. By the amicable arrangement thus made, Phillips and Claud Elwood were to
form one of these pairs, and fix their lake-camp at the mouth of the river already named as
coming in from the east; Carvil and Mark Elwood to constitute another pair, and encamp at the
mouth of the great inlet entering at the same place; while Codman and the young Indian, Tomah,
who, from their mutual challenges in beaver-catching, had by this time become friends, and
willing to hunt from the same starting-point, were to have their camp at the mouth of the river
coming in at the northwest end of the lake. By the plan now adopted, also, each of these three
hunting parties, after they had reached their respective destinations and built their camps,
were to explore the rivers ten or fifteen miles upward through the forest, and to some suitable
and convenient terminus of their proposed trapping and hunting range; there build a camp, in
which to lodge on their outward jaunts; and mark off, on their return, by blazing the trees,
lines for setting log-traps for sable, marten, stoat, or ermine,--for, whatever may be said
to the contrary, the noted ermine of Europe is a native of our northern forests. These marked
lines were to diverge from the upper camps along the ridges on each side of the river; sometimes
running many miles apart, then turning down to the stream, where indications of beaver and
otter had been discovered, so as to afford a chance for setting and tending steel-traps for
those animals; then running back again on to the high hills and ridges; but finally converging
in, and meeting at the lake camp. And, these preliminary steps being taken, everything would
then be in readiness for setting the traps, and for entering on the hopeful business of their
expedition.

All these arrangements being now definitely settled and understood, the consultation was broken
up, and the company betook themselves once more to their sylvan couches, calculating on an
early start the next day for their several destinations on the Oquossak, the nearest of which
was at least a dozen miles distant.

Accordingly, with the first crack of dawn the next morning, the loud and startling gallinaceous
cachinnation of the droll and wide-awake trapper aroused the woodsmen from their slumbers,
and warned them to be up and doing. And soon the whole company were in motion, the kindled
fire was crackling and flashing up amidst the dry pine faggots, thrown, on to feed and start
it into the steadier blaze and heat of more solid fuel, and the process of cooking was going
busily forward. In a short time they were again gathered, in high spirits, round their stone
table, unconsciously partaking, as the event proved, the last meal they were ever all to enjoy
together in the woods. But let us not anticipate.

As soon as they had dispatched their breakfast, the band about to depart loaded their canoes
with traps, guns, camp-kettles, and the provisions needed for immediate use; and, wishing Gaut
Gurley a happy and successful time at his solitary station, pushed merrily away into the broad
lake, turned their course northward, and sped on their voyage. A few miles rowing brought them
to the great inlet, which, like the principal inlets to the lakes below, was another reach
of the Androscoggin, flowing directly from the east through a channel, still nearly a hundred
yards in width and nearly three miles in length, from its entrance into one lake to the point
where it debouches from the other. After a row of an hour up this channel, made interesting
and impressive by the magnificent colonnades of princely pines, that, as far as the eye could
reach, stood towering away in lessening perspective along its banks, they suddenly emerged
into the bright and far-stretching waters of the unmapped Oquossak, which lay nestling and
inflected among the dark green cliffs of the boldly intersecting mountains, like some rough,
unshapen gem, gleaming out from the rubbish of a mine. And laying their course northeasterly,
for the distant bay receiving the waters of the confluent streams before described, they now
pulled away through the lake, in as direct a line as its irregular form, would permit. And
now, skirting long reaches of its deeply-wooded shores, from which the old forest, never broken
by the axe, and rarely ever trod by the foot of the white man, was seen, stretching away back,
lift after lift, in pristine grandeur, to the tall summits of the amphitheatric mountains,--now
shooting athwart, under some dark headland that stood out boldly disputing the empire with
the water, and now threading their way among the clustering green islands that studded the
bright and beautiful expanse,--they rowed steadily onward for hours, and at length were gladdened
by the sight of the dim but well-remembered outlines of the pointed bay, whose farthest shore
was to be the home and haven for most of their number, during their present sojourn in this
wild and remote fastness of the wilderness.

To row in, disembark their luggage, select sites for camps, to build those camps, so far as
to make them serve for shelters for the night, and to prepare and eat their suppers, occupied
the company, who had all decided to remain there that night through the remainder of the day
till bed-time. The next morning, after an early breakfast, Codman and Tomah took leave of their
companions, and proceeded on further up the lake to their allotted station; leaving the two
Elwoods, and their respective hunting companions, to complete their camps, which were situated
in near vicinity, get all in readiness, and the next day enter in earnest on the main business
of the campaign.

But it is not our intention to follow either of these pairs, or now distinct parties, of adventurous
woodsmen, in the general routine of their camp life,--in their solitary and almost daily marches
among the tangled wilds, from their inner to outer camps; their toils and fatigues on the way;
their pleasant meetings at the ends of their ranges at night, to recount the adventures of
the day, and lodge together; their heats and their colds, their dark hours and their bright
ones, their curious experiences and startling encounters with wild animals; and finally their
varying success in realizing the objects of their expedition, through the successive scenes
of the next nine or ten weeks, where

              --"rifle flashed,
  The grim bear hushed its savage howl,
  In blood and foam, the panther gnashed
  Its fangs with dying howl;
  The fleet deer ceased its flying bound,
  Its snarling wolf-foe bit the ground,
  And, with its moaning cry,
  The beaver sank beneath the wound,
  Its pond-built Venice by."

Suffice it to say, that they were all blest with uninterrupted health and increasing vigor,
in realization of the favorite theory of Carvil, in relation to the invigorating and fattening
principle of the super-abounding oxygen of the woods. They all highly enjoyed their wild life,
and were, even beyond their most sanguine expectations, successful in their aggregate acquisitions
of peltries and all kinds of game. Gaut Gurley, whose unremitted attention and apparent faithfulness
in the duties of his post soon disarmed the distrusting, came round punctually, every week,
supplied them with all they needed, and, while reporting his own good success, in his short
ranges in the vicinity of his head-quarters encampment, seemed greatly gratified at the continued
successes of all the rest, and exultingly bore off their furs for curing and safe storage with
the rich and rapidly-increasing collection at his camp; setting the mark of their collected
value, the last time he came round, at upwards of a thousand dollars, and encouraging them
with the hope that, probably, before any change would occur in the weather which would compel
them to relinquish the business and return to the settlement, a much larger sum would be realized
from their exertions. And, in view of this gratifying condition of their affairs, the company
at large--as winter at the farthest could not be very distant--now began to anticipate, with
much satisfaction, the time when they should return to their families, to gladden them with
their welcome presence, and, from the fruits of their enterprise, make such unlooked-for pecuniary
additions to the means of domestic comfort and happiness.

CHAPTER XV.

  "As the night set in, came hail and snow,
  And the air grew sharp and chill,
  And the warning roar of a terrible blow
  Was heard on the distant hill;
  And the norther,--see, on the mountain peak,
  In his breath, how the old trees writhe and shriek!
  He shouts along o'er the plain, ho, ho!
  He drives from his nostrils the blinding snow,
  And growls with a savage will."

  C. G. EASTMAN.

We will now take the reader to the wild and secluded banks of Dead river, the great southwesterly
tributary of the lordly Kennebec, the larger twin brother of the Androscoggin, both of which,
after being born of the same parent range of mountains, and wandering off widely apart, at
length find, at the end of their courses, like many a pair of long estranged brothers, their
final rest in a common estuary at the seaboard. At a point on the banks of the tributary above
named, where its long southward sweep brings it nearest, and within twenty miles of the Oquossak,
and within a quarter of that distance from the terminating camps of the outward ranges of the
hunters, two men in hunting-suits might have been seen, in the fore part of one of the last
days of November, in the season of the eventful expedition we have been describing, intently
engaged in inspecting some fragments of wrought wood, which, from the clue of some protruding
piece, they had kicked up from the leaves and decayed brushwood that had nearly concealed them
from view. One of these men was past the middle age, of a hardy but somewhat worn appearance.
The other was in the prime of young manhood, of a finely-moulded form and an unusually prepossessing
face and countenance. But we may as well let the dialogue that ensued between them disclose
their identity; the matter that was now engaging their attention; and their reasons for thus
appearing in this remote position.

"This piece," said the elder, closely scanning the fragment he held in his hand, "is evidently
oak, and looks mightily as if it was once the stave of an oak keg or half-barrel. Yes, and
here is another that will settle the question," he continued, pulling from its concealment
a larger and sounder fragment. "There! can't you trace the chine across the end of this?"

"Yes, quite distinctly, and I should not hesitate to pronounce all these fragments the remains
of an oak barrel that had once been opened, or left here, if I could conceive how such a thing
could come here, in the heart of this extensive wilderness. How do you solve the mystery Mr.
Phillips?"

"Well, Claud, I am as much at fault as you. Barrels don't float up stream; and to suppose this
came down stream, and still farther from any inhabitants, wouldn't help on the explanation
any more; while to suppose it was brought here by hunters through the woods, where they could
have no use for it even if they could get it here, is scarcely more probable."

"True; but can't we get a clue from something else about the place? This open space, hereabouts,
wears something of the aspect of a place from which the trees have been once cut away, or greatly
thinned, out, for some great encampment, for instance. Did you ever hear of any expedition
of men through this region, in such numbers as would require the transportation of large quantities
of provisions, drawn possibly by oxen, or more probably by men on light sledges?"

"Well, now, come to think of it, I have. And I guess you have blundered right smack on the
truth, at the first go off; which is more than I can claim for myself, I admit. Yes, nearly
fifty years ago, at the beginning of the old war, as you must have often read, an army did
pass somewhere through the wilderness of Maine to Quebec. It was under the command of that
fiery Satan, Benedict Arnold,--the only man in America, may be, who could have pushed an army,
at that time of the year, some weeks later in the season than it is now, through a hundred
and fifty miles' reach of such woods as these are, between our last and the first Canadian
settlement. My father was one of that army of bold and hardy men. They passed up the Kennebec
some distance, and, then, according to his account, left it, and, with the view of getting
over the Highlands on to the Great Megantic more easily, turned up a branch, which must have
been this very stream. Yes, I see, now. You are right about the appearance of this spot. There
was once a great encampment here, and doubtless that of Arnold's army, staying over night,
and breaking open a barrel of meat, conveyed here in some such way as you suggested."

"It is an interesting discovery; for that was a remarkable expedition, and must have been one
of great hardship and suffering."

"Hardship and suffering! Why, they fell short of provisions long before they got out of the
wilderness, and, besides the hardships of cold and fatigue, came near starving to death! I
have heard my father tell how he was one of a party of thirteen, who, with other like squads,
were permitted to scatter forward in search of some inhabitants, for food, lest they all perished
together; how, after going two days without putting a morsel into their mouths, except their
shoe-strings or the inner bark of trees, they at length were gladdened by the sight of an opening,
with a log house, and a cow standing before the door; how, the instant their eyes fell on the
cow, they ran like blood-hounds for the spot, seized an axe, brought the animal to the ground,
ripped up the hide on one thigh, cut off slices of the quivering flesh, and, by the time the
aroused family had got out into the yard, were munching and gobbling them down raw, with the
desperate eagerness of ravenous beasts." [Footnote: A historical fact, once related to the
author by an old soldier who was one of the party here described.]

"Horrible! but they paid the poor people for their cow, I trust?"

"Yes, twice-over, but that did not reconcile them to the loss of their only cow, where it was
so difficult to get another. The children screamed, and even the man and his wife wrung their
hands and cried as if their hearts would break."

"That incident is to me a new feature among the horrors of war, which I probably should have
never heard of but for coming here and making this curious discovery of one of the relics of
that terrible and fruitless campaign of our Revolution. I am glad we concluded to come."

"So am I; for that, and the other reason that I wanted to see the lay of the country, round
this river, where, as it happened, I had never been. But my mind misgave me several times,
on the way."

"Why so, pray?"

"I can hardly tell, myself, but I began to kinder feel as if something wrong was going on somewhere,
and that, though this place could not be more than five miles from our upper camp, where we
stayed last night, we had yet better be making our way directly back to the lake. Besides that,
I haven't liked the symptoms of the weather, to-day."

"I don't know that I have noticed any thing peculiar in the weather, except a chilliness of
the air that I have not felt before this season."

"That's the thing," rejoined the hunter, glancing uneasily up through the treetops, to try
to get a view of the sky. "But there are other indications I don't fancy. There is a peculiar
raw dampness in the air, and a sort of low, moaning sound heard once in a while murmuring along
through the forest, such as I have often noticed before great storms, and sudden changes from
fall to winter weather, this time of the year. And hush! hark!" he exclaimed, suddenly cutting
short his remark, as the well-known, solemn, and quickly-repeated konk! konk! of wild geese,
on their passage, greeted their ears.

They ran down to the water's edge to get a view of the open sky, when, looking up, they saw
a large flock of these winged, semi-annual voyagers of the air, coming in view over the forest,
in their usual widespread, harrow-shaped battalions, and with seemingly hurried flight, pitching
down from the British highlands toward the lower regions to the south. And that flock had scarcely
receded beyond hearing, when another, and yet another, with the same uneasy cries and rapid
flight, passed, in quick succession, over the open reach of sky above them.

"How far do you calculate the nearest shore of the Gulf of St. Lawrence is from here?" asked
the hunter, musingly.

"O, not so very great a distance,--three hundred miles, perhaps," replied Claud, looking inquiringly
at the other.

"Well," slowly responded the hunter, "those God-taught creatures know more about the coming
changes of the weather than all the philosophers in the world. These are but the advanced detachments
of armies yet behind them, already, doubtless, on their way from Labrador, and even more northern
coasts beyond. In the unusual mild November we have had, they never received their warning
till this morning. And these, being on the southern outposts of their summer quarters, the
Gulf of St. Lawrence, started at daylight, I presume,--about four hours ago, just about the
time I perceived a change in the atmosphere myself. This, at the rapid headway you perceive
they are making, would give them time to get here by this hour of the day."

"Then you take this as an indication of the approach of winter weather?"

"I do. And the evident hurriedness of their flight, and the sort of quickened, anxious tone
of their cries, show that they, at least, think it is not far behind them. But let us put all
the signs together. I must get to some place where I can see more of the sky. I noticed, as
I was coming in sight of the river, a short way back in the woods, a high, sharp hill, with
a bare, open top, rising from the river, about a hundred rods up along here to the left. What
suppose we pack up, and go and ascend it? We can, there, besides getting the view we want of
the lay of the country, see, probably, the horizon nearly all round. And, all this done, we
will then hold a council of war, and decide on our next movement."

This proposal meeting the ready approval of the young man, the two took their rifles, and proceeded
to the foot of the eminence in question, which they found to be a steep, conical hill, rising
abruptly three or four hundred feet above the general level of the surrounding forest, with
a small, pointed apex, from which some tornado had hurled every standing tree except a tall,
slender green pine, that shot up eighty or ninety feet, as straight as a flagstaff, from the
centre. After a severe scramble up the steeps, in some places almost perpendicular, they at
length reached the summit, and commenced leisurely walking round the verge, looking down on
the variegated wilderness, which, with its thousand dotted hills and undulating ridges, lay
stretched in cold solitude around them. With only a general glance, however, over the surrounding
forests, the gaze of the hunter was anxiously lifted upwards, to study the omens of the heavens.
The sun, by this time, was scarcely visible beneath the cold, lurid haze which had for some
hours been gradually stealing over it; while around the horizon lay piled long, motionless
banks of leaden clouds, thick and heavy enough evidently to be dark, but yet of that light,
dead, glazed, uncertain hue, which the close observer may have often noted as the precursor
of winter-storms. After a long and attentive survey of every visible part of the heavens, the
hunter, with an ominous shake of the head, dropped his eyes to the ground, and said:

"I was right, but didn't want to believe it when I got up this morning; and the wild geese
are right. We are on the eve of winter, and our best hope is that it may come gently. But even
that favor, I greatly fear, we shall not be permitted to realize."

"Well, sir, with that view of the case, in which I am inclined to concur, what do you propose
now?" asked Claud.

"Why, I propose, seeing we have all the fur pelts we took from the traps yesterday put up in
packs, and have left nothing in our upper camp of any consequence,--I propose, that, instead
of going back to our nearest marked line, as we talked of, we strike directly across the woods,
by the nearest route, to our lake camp; or, if you are willing to put up with two or three
miles additional travel, we will steer so as to take the upper camp of your father and Carvil
in our way. We might find them there, perhaps."

"Then let us steer for their camp; I can stand the jaunt. But can you determine the direction
to be taken to strike it?"

"Nearly, I think. Their camp, you know, is on the neck or connecting piece of river, between
two long ponds, lying about southwest of us. I rather expected to be able to get a glimpse
of one of those ponds from the hilltop, but find I can't. I presume I could, however, from
the top of this pine tree."

"Yes, but to climb it would be a long, and perhaps dangerous task, would it not?"

"No, neither. We woodsmen are often compelled to resort to such a course, to take our latitude
and bearings. And, on the whole, I think in this case it might be the cheapest way. So I will
up it, and you may be watching for wild geese, that are still, I perceive, every few minutes,
somewhere in sight. Very likely some flock may soon come over us near enough for a shot."

So saying, the resolute and active hunter, casting aside coat, cap, and boots, sprang up several
feet on to the clasped trunk of the pine, over whose rough bark he now, by means of the vigorous
clenches of his arms and legs, fast made his way upwards. It was a hard struggle for him, however,
till he reached the lower limbs, some fifty feet from the ground, when, swinging himself up
by a grappled limb, he quickly disappeared among the thick, mantling boughs, on his now doubly-rapid
ascent; and, in a few minutes more, he was heard by his companion below, breaking off the obstructing
tiptop branches, and, as he gazed abroad from his dizzy height, shouting out the discoveries
which were the object of his bold attempt.

"Make ready there, below!" he startlingly exclaimed, all at once, after a long pause, in which
he seemed to be silently noting the distant objects in the forest; "make ready there, below,
for a famous large flock of wild geese, just heaving in sight over the hills, and coming directly
to this spot."

The next moment the expected flock, spread out in columns answering to the two sides of a triangle,
each a quarter of a mile in extent, and the nearest nearly in a line with the summit where
the young huntsman stood, with raised rifle, awaiting their approach, came in full view, making
the forest resound with their multitudinous and mingling cries, and the loud beating of their
long wings on the air, as they swept onward in their close proximity to the earth. Singling
out the nearest goose of the nearest column, Claud quickly caught his aim, and fired; when
the struck bird, with a convulsive start, suddenly clasped its wings, and, in its onward impulse,
came down like lightning into the bushes, within five rods from its exulting captor.

"Done like a marksman,--plumped through and through under the wing. You are improving, young
man," exclaimed the hunter, who now, rapidly coming down, had reached the foot of the tree,
as Claud came forward from the bushes, with his prize. "It is a fine fat one, ain't it?" he
continued, glancing at the heavy bird, as he was pulling on his boots. "We will take it along
with us for our supper."

"Yes, rather a lucky shot," returned the other, self-complacently. "But what discoveries did
you make up there, that will aid us in our course, Mr. Phillips?"

"O, that is all settled," answered the latter, putting on his pack, and buttoning up, preparatory
to an immediate start. "I caught glimpses of both the ponds, noted all the hilltops, ridges,
and other noticeable landmarks, in the line between here and there, and can lead you as straight
as a gun to the spot, for which we will now be off; and the sooner the better, as it is fast
growing colder and colder, and the whole heavens are every moment growing more dark and dubious."

They then, after making their way down the precipitous side of the hill to its western foot,
struck off, under the lead of the hunter, in a line through the forest, preserving their points
of compass, when none of their general landmarks were visible, by noting the peculiar weather-beaten
appearance of the mosses on the north sides of the trees, and the usual inclination of the
tips of the hemlocks from west to east. And for the next hour and a half, on, on they tramped,
in Indian file, and almost unbroken silence, making headway with their long, loping steps,
notwithstanding the obstructing fallen trees, brushwood, and constantly occurring inequalities
of the ground, with a speed which none but practised woodsmen can attain in the forest, and
which is scarcely equalled by the fastest foot-travellers on the smooth and beaten highways
of the open country.

At length they were gratified by an indistinct sight of some body of water, gleaming dimly
through the trees from some point in front; and the walk of a few hundred yards more brought
them out, as it luckily happened, directly to the camp of which they were in search. It was,
however, tenantless; their companions had already departed; but the bed of live coals in the
usual place, from which the thin vapor was still perceptibly ascending, showed that they could
not have left more than an hour before. In glancing into the deserted shanty, they descried
a clean strip of white birch bark, lying conspicuously on the ground, a few feet within the
entrance. On picking it up, they were soon enabled to read the following words, traced with
the charred end of a twig:

  "Thinking something unusual to be brewing overhead, we
  are off for the lake about 10 A. M.         CARVIL."

"A very observing, considerate man, that Mr. Carvil," said the hunter, still musingly keeping
his eyes on the unique dispatch. "He is one of the few book-learned men I have ever known,
who could apply science to the natural philosophy of the woods. I can see how justly he reasoned
out this case: knowing that we had some thought of a jaunt to Dead river this trip, he judged
we should notice the signs of the weather just as we did, and, as it seems, he did; and that,
in consequence, when we got there, we should decide on the nearest route back, which would
bring us so near their camp that we should be tempted to come to it; and so he left this notice
for us that they thought it wisdom to depart."

While the hunter was thus delivering himself, as he stood by the fire before the entrance,
spreading out his hands over the coals, Claud went inside, and, returning with two fine, fresh
trout, which the late occupants had, for some cause, left behind them, held them up to his
musing companion, and exclaimed:

"Look here, Mr. Phillips,--see what they have left for us!"

"Good!" cried the hunter, rousing himself, "for, whether they left them by design or mistake,
they come equally well in play at this time. You out with your knife and split them through
the back, and I will prepare the coals. We will roast them for a lunch, which will refresh
and strengthen us for the ten or twelve miles walk that is still to be accomplished, before
reaching the lake."

After dispatching the welcome meal, which in this primitive fashion they had prepared for themselves
out of the material thus unexpectedly come to hand, and enjoying the half-hour's rest consequent
on the grateful occupation, they again swung on their packs, and, striking into one of the
marked lines of their companions, set forth with fresh vigor on their journey. Their walk,
however, was a long and dreary one. Contrary to what they had ever before experienced, in jaunts
of this length through the woods, not a single hunting adventure occurred, to enliven the tedium
of the way. For, although the heavens above were made vocal with the screams of wild geese,
still pouring along in their hurried flight to the south, to escape the elemental foe behind,
like the rapidly succeeding detachments of some retreating army, yet not a living creature,
biped or quadruped, was anywhere to be heard or seen in the forest beneath. All seemed to have
instinctively shrunk away and fled, as from the presence of some impending evil, to their dens
and coverts, there to await, cowering and silent, the dreaded outbreak. Slowly, but steadily,
the lurid storm-clouds were gathering in the heavens, bringing shade after shade over the darkening
wilderness. Low, hollow murmurs in the troubled air were now heard, ominously stealing along
the wooded hills; and now, in the sharp, momentary rattling of the seared beech-leaves, the
whole forest seemed shivering in the dead chill that was settling over the earth. The cold,
indeed, was now becoming so intense as to congeal and skim over all the pools and still eddies
of the river, and make solid ice along the shores of the rapid currents of the stream; while
even the ground was fast becoming so frozen as to clumper and sound beneath the hurrying tread
of our anxious travellers. By three in the afternoon, it had become so dark that they could
scarcely see the white blazings on the sides of the trees, by which they were guided in their
course; and in less than another hour, they were stumbling along almost in utter darkness,
uncertain of their way, and nearly despairing of reaching their destination that night. But,
while they were on the point of giving up the attempt, the bright glare of an ascending blaze,
shooting fiercely through the thickets before them, greeted their gladdened eyes, and put them
on exertions that soon brought them rejoicing into the comfortable quarters of their almost
equally gratified friends and comrades; where it was at once decided that, instead of proceeding
to their own camp, to build a fire and lodge, they should turn in for the night.

After some time passed in the animated and cheery interchange of inquiries and opinions, which
usually succeeds on the meeting of anxiously-sought or expected friends, Claud and Phillips,
having by this time warmed and measurably rested themselves, took hold with Carvil and Mark
Elwood in dressing and cooking for supper and for breakfast the next morning, Claud's goose,
and a pair of fine ducks from a flock which the two latter had encountered just before reaching
camp that afternoon; and, after completing this process with their good supply of game, and
the more agreeable one of eating so much of it as served for a hearty supper, they drew up
an extra quantity of fuel for the large fire which they felt it would be necessary to keep
up through the night; and then, seating themselves in camp, went into an earnest consultation
on the measures and movements next to be taken. When, in view of the lateness of the season,
coupled as it was with the alarming portents of an immediate storm, which they had all noticed,
it was unanimously determined that they should embark, early next morning, for head-quarters
on the Maguntic, where Gaut Gurley, instead of preparing to come round again, as was now nearly
his usual time to do, would, under the altered aspect of things, doubtless be awaiting them,
and making arrangements for the return of all to the settlement. Then, building up a fire of
solid logs, for long burning, the tired woodsmen drew up their bough-pillows towards the entrance
of the camp, so as to bring their feet near the fire, closely wrapped their thick blankets
around them, lay down, and were soon buried in sound slumber. And it was well for them that
they were thus early taking their needed rest; for, soon after midnight, they were awakened
by the lively undulations of the piercing cold air that was driving and whistling through the
sides of their camp, and by the puffs of suffocating smoke that the eddying winds were ever
and anon driving from their fire directly into their faces. One after another they rose, and
ran out to see what had caused the, to them, sudden change that had occurred in the air since
they went to sleep. And they were not long in ascertaining the truth. The expected storm had
set in, with that low, deep commotion of the elements, and that slowly gathering impetus, which,
as may often be noted at the commencement of great storms, was but the too certain prelude
of its increase and duration. The fine snow was sifting down apace to the already whitened
ground, and the rising wind, even in their mountain-hemmed nook, was whirling in fierce and
fitful eddies about their camp, and shrilly piping among the strained branches of the vexed
forest around; while its loud and awful roar, as it careered along the sides of the distant
mountains, told with what strength and fury the storm was commencing over the country at large.
In the situation in which the company now found themselves, neither sleep, comfort, nor quiet
were to be expected for the remainder of the night. They therefore piled high the wood on their
fire, and gathered round the hot blaze, to protect them from the cold, that had now not only
grown more intense, but become doubly difficult to withstand, from the force with which it
was brought by the driving blasts in contact with their shivering persons. And thus,--in alternately
turning their backs and fronts to the fire, while standing in one place, and often shifting
places from one side of the fire to the other; in now taking refuge within their camp when
the constantly veering gusts bore the smoke and flame outward, and then fleeing out of it when
the stifling column was driven inward; but finding no peace nor rest anywhere, among those
shifts and commotions of the battling elements,--they wore away the long and comfortless hours
of that dreary night, till the return of morning light, which, after many a vain prayer for
its speedier appearance, at length gradually broke over the storm-invested wilderness.

As soon as it was light enough to see objects abroad, or see them as well as they can ever
be discerned through the fast-falling snow of such a driving storm, Phillips and Carvil sallied
out through the snow, already eight inches deep, and made their way down to the nearest shore
of the lake, about a quarter of a mile distant, to ascertain the condition of the water before
embarking upon it in their canoes, as they had designed to do immediately after breakfast.
On reaching the shore, they found the narrow bay, before mentioned as forming the estuary of
the two rivers on which they had been located, comparatively calm, though filled with congealing
snow and floating ice from the rivers. But all beyond the line of the two points of land inclosing
the bay was rolling and tumbling in wild commotion, madly lashing the rocky headlands with
the foaming waters, and resounding abroad over the hills with the deep, hoarse roar of the
tempest-beaten breakers of the ocean.

"Do you see and hear that?" exclaimed Phillips, pointing to the lake.

"Yes, yes; but what was that I just caught a glimpse of, out there in the offing, to the right?"
hastily cried Carvil.

They both peered forward intently; and the next moment they saw a canoe, containing a single
rower, low bending to his oar, shoot by the northern headland with the speed of an arrow, strike
obliquely out of the white line of rolling waves into the bay, and make towards the point where
they stood.

"Who can it be?" inquired Carvil, after watching a while in silence the slow approach of the
obstructed canoe.

"In a minute more we shall see," replied the hunter, bending forward to get a view of the man's
face, which, being seen the next moment, he added, with a shout: "Hallo, there, Codman, is
that you? Why didn't you crow, to let us know who was coming?"

"Crow?" exclaimed the trapper, driving through the ice to the shore; "did you ever hear a rooster
crow in a time like this? There! I am safe, at last," he added, leaping out upon the shore,
and glancing back with a dubious shake of the head towards the scene from which he had thus
escaped. "Yes, safe now, for all my fright; but I would not be out another hour on that terrible
lake for all the beaver in the province of Maine! I started at daylight, got out a mile or
two, tolerably, but after that, Heaven only knows how I rode on those wild waves without swamping!
But no matter,--I am here."

"But where is Tomah, the Indian?" asked the hunter.

"Tomah!" said Codman, in surprise. "Why, haven't you seen him? He went off three days ago,
saying he must return to the settlement, to be training his moose to the sledge, so as to start
for Boston with him, the first snow. He said he should leave it with Gaut Gurley to see to
his share of the furs. I supposed he would call at one of your camps. But come, move on. I
suppose you have a fire at camp, and something to eat; I am frozen to death, and starved to
death, besides being more than half-dead from the great scaring I've had; but that's all over
now, and I'm keen for breakfast. So troop along back to your camp, I say."

To return to camp, take their cold and comfortless breakfast, and decide on the now hard alternatives
of remaining where they were, to await the event of the storm, without provisions, and with
their imperfect means of protection from the rigor of the elements, or of starting off through
the cumbering snow beneath their feet, and the driving tempest above their heads, with the
hope of reaching head-quarters by land, before another night should overtake them, was but
the work of half an hour. To remain, with the foretaste of the past and the prospects of the
future, was a thought so forbidding that none of them could for a moment entertain it; and
to set out to travel by land, with such prospects, over the mountains, by the long, winding
route on the eastern side of the lake,--which was the only one left to them, and which could
not be less than fifteen miles in extent,--was a scarcely less forbidding alternative. But
it must be adopted. So, gathering in their steel traps and iron utensils, they buried them
all, except their lightest hatchet, under a log, that they should not be encumbered with more
weight than was absolutely necessary; snugly packing up the few peltries they had taken since
Gaut Gurley had been round, and putting the scanty remains of their food into their pockets,
for a lunch on the way, they set forth on their formidable undertaking.

Led on and guided by the calm and resolute hunter,--who at different times had been over the
whole way, and in whose skill and discretion, as a woodsman, for conducting them by the nearest
and easiest route, they all had undoubting confidence,--they vigorously made their way onwards
through the accumulating snows and natural obstructions of the forest; now threading the thickets
of the valleys; now skirting the sides of the hills; now crossing deep ravines; and now climbing
high mountains in their toilsome march. And, though the storm seemed to rage more and more
fiercely with the advancing hours of the day,--whirling clouds of blinding snow in their faces,
hurling the decayed limbs and trunks of the older tenants of the wood to the earth around them,
in the fury of its blasts, and rattling and creaking through the colliding branches of the
writhing green trees, as it swept over the wilderness,--yet, for all these difficulties of
the way and commotions of the elements, they faltered not, but continued to move forward in
stern and moody silence, hour after hour, in the footsteps of their indomitable leader, until
they reached the extreme eastern point of the lake, where their destination required them to
turn round it, in a sharp angle to the west. Here, at the suggestion of their leader, who made
the encouraging announcement that the worst half of their journey was accomplished, they made
a halt, under the lee of a sheltering mountain, for rest and refreshment. And, sitting down
on a fallen tree, from whose barkless trunk they brushed off the snow, they took out and commenced
chewing their stale and frozen bread, with a few small pieces of duck-meat, remaining from
their breakfast, and comprising the last of their provisions. The animal heat, produced by
their great and continued exertions in travelling, had thus far prevented them, from suffering
much from the cold, or perceiving its actual intensity. But they had been at rest scarcely
long enough to finish their meagre repast, when they were driven from their seats by the chill
of the invading element, and were eagerly demanding, as a lesser annoyance, again to be led
forward on their journey. The snow by this time had accumulated to the depth of a foot and
a half, and still came swiftly sifting down aslant to the earth, without the least sign of
abatement; while the wind, which was before a gale, had now risen to a hurricane, causing the
smitten earth to tremble and shake under the force of the terrible blasts that went shrieking
and howling through the bowed, bending, and twisting forests, where

  "The sturdiest birch its strength was feeling,
    And pine trees dark and tall
  To and fro were madly reeling,
    Or dashing headlong in their fall."

But, still undismayed by these manifestations of elemental power around them, or the prospects
before them, all terrific and disheartening as they were, and nerved by the consciousness that
their only chance of escape from a fearful death depended on their exertions, the bold and
hardy woodsmen again started out into the trackless waste, and labored desperately onward,
mile after mile, through the impeding snow; sometimes taken to the armpits in its gathering
drifts, and sometimes thrown at full length beneath its submerging depths by stepping into
some hole or chasm it had concealed from their sight. And thus resolutely did they beat and
buffet their rough way through the perplexed and roaring wilderness, and thus stoutly did they
bear up against the constantly thickening dangers that environed them during the last part
of that dreadful day. But, as night drew on, their strength and spirits began to flag and give
way. The cold was increasing in intensity. The tempest howled louder than ever over their heads,
and the snow had become so deep and drifted that furlongs became as miles in their progress.
And yet, as they supposed, they were miles from their destination. At length, one after another,
they faltered and stopped. The strong men quailed at the fate which seemed staring them in
the face, and they were on the point of giving up in despair. But hark! that cheery shout which
rises above the roaring of the wind, from their more hardy and hopeful leader, who, while all
others stopped, had pushed on some thirty rods in advance. It comes again!

"Courage, men! We have struck the river, at whose mouth stands our camp, now not half a mile
distant."

Aroused by the glad tidings, that sent a thrill of joy through their sinking hearts, they sprang
forward, with the revivified energies which new and suddenly-lighted hope will sometimes so
strangely impart, and were soon by the side of the exulting hunter; when together they rushed
and floundered along down the banks of the stream towards the place, in joyful excitement at
the thought that their troubles were now so nearly over, and with visions of the comfortable
quarters, warm fires, and smoking suppers, which they confidently expected were awaiting them
at camp, brightly dancing before them. Joy and hope lent wings to their speed; and, in a short
time, they could discern the open place and the well-remembered outlines of the locality where
the camp was situated. But no bright light greeted their expectant eyes. They were now at the
spot, but, to their utter consternation, no camp was to be seen! Could they be mistaken in
the place? No; there was the open path leading to the structure; there rose the steep side
of the hill; and there, at the foot of it, stood the perpendicular rock against which it was
erected! What could it mean? After standing a moment in mute amazement, peering inquiringly
at each other, in the fading twilight, they started forward for the rock, and, in so doing,
came upon the two front posts, still standing up some feet out of the snow. They were black
and charred! The sad truth then flashed over their minds. Their camp had been burnt to the
ground, and with it, also, probably, their rich collection of furs,--nearly the whole fruit
of all the toils and fatigues of their expedition! O death, death! what shall save the poor
trappers, now?

"Great God! I have had a presentiment of this," exclaimed Phillips, the first to find utterance,
in a voice trembling with unwonted emotion.

"How could it have happened?" and "Where is Gaut Gurley?" simultaneously burst from the lips
of the others.

"Well may you, ask those questions, and well couple them together, I fancy," responded the
hunter, with bitter significance. "But away with all speculations about that, now. We have
something that more nearly concerns us to attend to, in this strait, than forming conjectures
about the loss of our property: our lives are at stake! If you will mind me, however, you may
all yet be saved."

"Direct us, direct us, and we will obey," eagerly responded one and all.

"Two of you follow me, then, for something dry, if we can find it, for a fire, and the rest
go to kicking away and treading down the snow under the rock, with all your might!" sharply
commanded the hunter, dashing his way towards the thickets, with hatchet in hand.

With that ready obedience which a superior in energy and experience will always command among
his fellows, in emergencies like this, the men went to work in earnest. In a short time the
snow was cleared away or beat down compactly over a space some yards in extent along the side
of the rock, while the others soon returned with a supply of the driest wood to be found, together
with an armfull of hemlock boughs, to strew over the beaten snow. The next thing requiring
their attention was the all-important object of starting a fire. But in this they were doomed
to sad disappointment. Their punk-wood tinder had been so dampened by the snow sifting into
their coat-pockets, where they had deposited it, that it could not be made to catch the sparks
of the smitten steel. They then tried the flashing of their guns; but they had no paper, and
could find no dry leaves or fleecy bark of the birch, and the finest splinters or shavings
they could whittle, in the dark, from the clefts of the imperfectly dry pine, would not take
fire from the light, evanescent flash of the powder in their pans. Again and again did they
renew the doubtful experiment; but every succeeding trial, from the dampness of their material
in the driving snow, and from the unmanageable condition of their benumbed fingers and shivering
frames, became more and more hopeless, till at length they were compelled to relinquish wholly
the fruitless attempt.

"This is a calamity, indeed!" exclaimed the hunter. "I feared it might be so from the first.
Could we have foreseen the want, so as to have been on the lookout for material coming along,
or have got here before dark, it might have been averted. But as it is, there is one resort
left for us, if we would live in this terrible wind and cold till morning, and that is, to
keep in constant and lively motion. Whoever lies down to sleep is a dead man!"

But he found it difficult to impress on the minds of most of them his idea of the danger of
ceasing motion. They began to say they felt more comfortable now, and, being very tired, must
lay down to take a little rest. Sharply forbidding the indulgence, the hunter sallied out,
cut and trimmed two or three green beech switches, and returned with them to his wondering
companions; when, finding Mark Elwood, in disregard of his warning, already down and dozing
on a bunch of boughs under the rock, he sternly exclaimed:

"Up, there, in an instant!"

"O, let me lie," begged the unconsciously freezing man: "do let me lie a little while. I am
almost warm, now, but very, very sleepy," he added, sinking away again into a doze.

Instantly a smart blow from the tough and closely-setting switch of the hunter fell upon the
outstretched legs of the dozer, who cringed and groaned, but did not start. Another and another,
and yet another, fell with the quickness and force of a pedagogue's rod on the legs of an offending
urchin, till the aroused, maddened and enraged victim of the seeming cruelty leaped to his
feet, and, with doubled fists, rushed upon the assailant, who darted off into the snow and
led his pursuer a doubling race of several hundred yards before he returned to the spot.

"There are some spare switches," resumed the active and stout-hearted hunter, as he came in
a little ahead of the puffing, reanimated, and now pacified Elwood; "take them in hand, and
do the same by me, if you see me going the same way; it is our only salvation!"

But, notwithstanding all this preaching, and the obvious effects of this wholesome example,
others of the company, deceived by the insidious sensation which steals upon the unsuspecting
victims of such exposures, as the treacherous herald of their death,--others, in turn, required
and promptly received the application of the same strange remedy. But this could not always
last. The fatigue of their previously overtasked systems prevented them from keeping up their
exertions many hours more; and, declaring they could bear up no longer, one after another sunk
down under the rock; and even their hitherto indomitable leader himself now visibly relaxed,
and at length threw himself down with the rest, feebly murmuring:

"I know what this feeling means; but it is so sweet! let us all die together!"

At that instant a shock, quickly followed by the loud, gathering rumblings of an earthquake,
somewhere above them, suddenly aroused and brought every man to his feet. And the next moment
an avalanche of snow, sweeping down the steep side of the rock-faced declivity above, shot
obliquely over their heads to the level below, leaving them unharmed, but buried twenty feet
beneath the outward surface.

"Now, God be praised!" cried the hunter, at once comprehending what had happened, and starting
forward to feel out what space was left them between their shielding rock in the rear and the
wedged and compact slant snow-wall in front, which, with the no less deeply blocked ends, formed
the roof and sides of their new and thus strangely built prison-house. "This is the work of
Providence! We are now, at least, safe from the cold, as you will all, I think, soon have the
pleasure of perceiving."

"You are right, Mr. Phillips," responded Carvil; "and it is strange some of us did not think
of building a snow-house at the outset. Even the wild partridges, that in coldest weather protect
themselves by burrowing in the snow, might have taught us the lesson."

"Yes, but it has been far better done in the way God has provided for us. And we have only
now to get our blood into full circulation to insure us safety and rest through the night;
and let us do this by shaking out our boughs, and treading down the snow, as smooth as a floor,
to receive them for our bedding."

"It may be as you say about its being mild here, Mr. Phillips," doubtingly observed Mark Elwood;
"but it seems strange philosophy to me, that being inclosed in snow, the coldest substance
in nature, should make us warmer than in the open air."

"And still I suspect it is a fact, father," said Claud. "The Esquimaux, and other nations of
the extreme north, it is known, live in snow-houses, without fire, the whole of their long
and rigorous winters."

"O, Phillips is right enough about that," added Codman, now evidently fast regaining his usual
buoyancy of spirits; "yes, right enough about that, whether he was about that plaguey switching
he gave us, or not. Why, I can feel a great change in the air here already! warm enough, soon;
safe, at any rate; so, hurra for life and home, which, being once so honestly lost, will now
be clear gain. Hurra! whoo-rah! whoo-rah-ee! Kuk-kuk-ke-o-ho!"

And the hunter was right, and the trapper was right. Their perils and physical sufferings were
over. They were not only safe, but fast becoming comfortable. And, by the time they had trod
down the snow as hard and smooth as had been proposed, and shaken out the boughs and distributed
them for their respective beds, the air seemed as warm as that of a mild day in October. Their
clothes were smoking and becoming dry by the evaporation of the dampness caused by the snow.
Their limbs had become pliant, and their whole systems restored to their wonted warmth and
circulation. And, wrapping themselves in their blankets, they laid down--as they knew they
could now safely do--and were soon lost in refreshing slumber, from which they did not awake
till a late hour the next morning.

When they awoke, after their deep slumbers, they at once concluded, from the altered and lighter
hue of all around them, as well as by their own feelings, that it must be day without; and
with one accord commenced, with their hatchets, cutting and digging a hole through the wall
of their snowy prison-house, in the place where they judged it most likely to be thinnest.
After working by turns some thirty or forty minutes, and cutting or beating out an upward passage
eight or ten yards in extent, they suddenly broke through into the open air. The roaring of
the storm no longer greeted their ears. The terrible conflict of the elements, which yesterday
kept the heavens and earth in such hideous commotion, was over and gone. Though it was as cold
as in the depths of winter, the sky was almost cloudless; and the sun, already far on his diurnal
circuit, was glimmering brightly over the dreary wastes of the snow-covered wilderness. By
common consent, they then packed up, and immediately commenced beating their slow and toilsome
way towards the nearest habitation, which was that of the old chief, now only about five miles
distant, over land, on the shore of the lake below. With far less fatigue and other suffering,
save that of hunger, than they had anticipated, they reached the hospitable cabin of Wenongonet
before night. Here their wants were supplied; here an earnest discussion--in which they were
aided by the shrewd surmises of the chief--was held, respecting the burning of their camp and
the probable loss of their common property; and, finally, here, though the "Light of the Lodge"
was absent at her city home, they were agreeably entertained through the night and succeeding
day,--when, the lakes having become frozen over sufficiently strong to make travelling on the
ice as safe as it was convenient and easy, they, on the second morning after their arrival
at his house, bade their entertainer good-by, and set out for their homes in the settlement,
which they respectively reached by daylight, to the great relief of their anxious and now overjoyed
families and friends.

CHAPTER XVI.

  "There was a laughing devil in his sneer,
  That rais'd emotions both of hate and fear."

In the early part of an appointed day, about a fortnight after the return of the imperilled
and unfortunate trappers to their homes, as described in the preceding chapter, an unusual
gathering of men was to be seen within and around a building whose barn, open shed, watering-trough,
and sign-post, showed its aspirations to be a tavern, occupying a central position among a
small, scattering group of primitive-looking houses, situated on the banks of the Androscoggin,
five miles below that lake, and where it might be considered as fairly under way, as an uninterrupted
river, in its devious course to the ocean.

In the yard and around the door stood men, gathered in small knots, engaged in low, earnest
conversation; while, every few minutes, some were seen issuing from the house and hastily departing,
as if dispatched on special messages,--the company in the mean time being continually augmented
by fresh arrivals of the settlers, who came straggling in from both directions of the great
road, which, leading from the more thickly-settled parts of Maine to the Connecticut, here
passed over the Androscoggin.

Within the house, in the largest room, and behind a table, drawn up near the wall at the farther
end, sat a magistrate, in all the grave dignity of a court, with pen in hand and paper before
him, as if in readiness to take such testimony in the case on hand as should be presented for
his consideration. On his right sat Mark Elwood, Phillips, and Codman, appearing as the representatives
of the injured trappers or hunters, who were the prosecutors in the case; while on his left
sat Gaut Gurley, in custody of the sheriff and his assistant, who had arrested and brought
him there to answer to the complaint of the former. Gaut appeared perfectly unconcerned, glancing
boldly about him with an air of proud defiance; while his former companions, the trappers just
named, sat looking down at their feet, compressing their lips and knitting their brows in moody
and indignant silence.

But, before proceeding with any further description of the court, its parties or doings, let
us briefly recur to what had happened in the interim between the return of the trappers and
their present appearance in court, for redress for the outrages that they supposed had been
designedly committed upon them, or at least for bringing to punishment the man who, they felt
morally certain, must be the perpetrator.

After the trappers had reached their homes, become fully restored from the chill and fatigues
they had undergone during the terrible storm with which their expedition so disastrously terminated,
and attended to such domestic wants as demanded their immediate care, they met at the house
of Phillips, in accordance with an appointment they made when they parted, to report what evidence
each might be able to collect relative to the burning of their camp, and the suspected previous
abstraction of their furs; and thereupon to decide what measures should be taken in the premises.
Finding that Gaut Gurley had been seen at home, or in the vicinity, some days previous to the
storm, and that he was not likely to come to them, they dispatched a disinterested person to
him, to notify him of their arrival, and the condition in which they found matters at the store-camp,
left in his charge, and also of their wish that he would attend their proposed meeting, and
account for the catastrophe which had so unexpectedly occurred. He pretended to know nothing
of the affair, and feigned great surprise at the news; said he had left the camp and its stores,
all safe, two days before the storm, to come to the settlement for more provisions; believing
that his companions would remain a fortnight longer; that, having procured his supplies, he
was intending to return to camp the day the storm came on; and finally that it devolved on
those last at the camp, and not on him, to account for what had taken place. He therefore declined
meeting them on the business. As soon as they ascertained that Gaut had taken this stand, which
only added to their previous convictions of his guilt, the different members of the company
made journeys to the nearest villages or trading-places in Maine and New Hampshire, to see
if any furs, answering in description to their collection, had recently been sold in any of
those towns. And at length they found, in one of the frontier villages in Maine, a small collection
of peltries, which they thought they could identify, and which the trader said he had lately
purchased of an unknown travelling pedlar, who, out of a large lot of peltries, would sell
only these at prices that would warrant the purchasing. This small lot of furs they prevailed
on the trader to let them take home with them, for the purpose of making proof in court. This
was all the direct evidence they could find to implicate Gaut; but they believed it would be
sufficient. For, at the meeting they then held, Mark Elwood found among the furs a beaver-skin,
that he could swear was of his own taking, from a careless slit he remembered to have made
in the skinning. Codman found another, which he could safely identify by a mangled ear which
was caught in one end of the trap, while the tail was caught in the other. And Phillips found
an otter skin, with a bullet-hole on each side, made, as he well remembered, by shooting the
animal through and through in the region of the heart. On this proof they unanimously decided
on a prosecution; and accordingly Phillips and Mark Elwood set off the next day for Lancaster,
the shire-town on the Connecticut, for legal advice, warrants, and a sheriff to serve them.
On reaching the place, they were told by the attorney they consulted that they could not make
out larceny or theft against Gurley for taking the furs placed in his trust, but for their
private redress must resort to a civil action of trover, or unlawful conversion of the common
property. A criminal process for arson, or the burning of the camp, would probably be sustained.
And the result of the consultation was, that a complaint and warrant for arson should be issued,
and the arrest made by the sheriff, who should also have in his hands a civil process returnable
to the court of Common Pleas, to serve on Gurley and his property, provided the proof elicited
at the court of inquiry on the criminal charge should be such as to afford them any prospect
of a recovery.

It was under these circumstances that Gaut Gurley had been arrested for the burning of the
camp, and brought before the magistrate, who, with the lawyers employed on both sides, had
come to this place, as before described, for the hearing of the case.

The magistrate now declared the court open, and directed the parties to proceed with the case.
The attorney for the prosecution then rose, read the complaint, and briefly stated what they
expected to prove, to substantiate the allegations it contained. Mark Elwood, Phillips, Codman,
and the trader who had purchased the furs of the pedlar, and who had been summoned for the
purpose, were then called to the stand, and sworn, as witnesses on the part of the prosecution.

The trader, being first called on, testified to the identity of the furs which had been produced
in court with the lot he had bought of the pedlar, as before mentioned; and he further stated
that the man had a large lot, which well answered the general description given by the complainants
of the lot they had in camp; but where or how he obtained the lot, or who he was, or where
he went to when he left town, he did not learn, and had no means of ascertaining. All he could
say, was, that these were the furs he purchased, and the only ones of the whole lot on the
prices of which he and the fellow could agree, so as to effect a trade.

Phillips, next called, swore plumply that the bullet-pierced otter-skin before him was taken
by his own hand from the animal he shot. He also added that there were several strings of sable-skins
in the lot before him, which he felt confident he had seen among the furs of the company, and
he especially pointed out one strung together by a braid of wickape bark. And in this last
statement he was confirmed by Codman, who, besides identifying one beaver-skin, had the same
impression in relation to the string of sable; but neither of them would swear positively in
the matter of the smaller furs.

Mark Elwood, the last of the witnesses to be examined, then took the stand; and, contrary to
what might have been expected from one of his wavering disposition, and particularly from one
who had been so strangely kept under the influence and fear of the man on trial, bore himself
resolutely under the menacing looks which the latter fixed upon him by way of intimidation.
For some time he had utterly refused to harbor the idea of Gaut's guilt. He believed the burning
of the camp was accidental; that Gaut, in anticipation of the storm, had taken all the furs
home with him, and would soon call the company together for the distribution. But when he heard
of the course Gaut was taking, and coupled it with the other circumstances, he suddenly changed
his tone, fell into the belief of his companions, and more loudly and openly than any of them
denounced the crime and its author,--seemingly throwing off, at once and forever, the mysterious
spell which had so long bound him. Accordingly he now swore confidently to the beaver-skin
in question, as one of his own taking, and, facing him boldly, even went so far as to declare
his full belief in Gaut's guilt, not only in the burning of the camp, but in the stealing of
the furs.

This gratuitous assertion of a mere matter of belief in the respondent's guilt, which was no
legal evidence in the case, at once aroused, as might have been expected, the ire of Gaut's
lawyer, who, with, fierce denunciations of the conduct of the witness, subjected him to a severe
cross-examination.

"What reason, then," asked the somewhat mollified lawyer, now himself incautiously venturing
on ground which, with a better knowledge of the parties, he would have seen might injure his
cause, and on which his client evidently wished him not to push inquiries. "What reason, then,
could you have for your extraordinary conduct in trying, against all rule, to lug in here your
mere ungrounded conjectures, to prejudice the court and spectators against an innocent man?"

"Innocent?" here broke in Phillips, provoked by what, in his exasperated state of feeling,
he viewed as the cool impudence and hypocrisy of the lawyer. "Innocent, hey? Well, well, there
are various ways of lying in this world, I see plainly."

"What do you know about my client, whom you are all conspiring to ruin?" exclaimed the excited
lawyer, turning fiercely on the interposing hunter.

"Know about him?" retorted the other. "I know enough, besides this outrageous affair; I know
enough to--"

"Beware!" suddenly exclaimed Gaut Gurley, with a look that brought the speaker to a stand.

"I don't fear you, sir," said the hunter, confronting the other with an unflinching countenance.
"But you may be right; it may be I had better forbear; it may be your time is not yet come,"
he added, in a low, significant tone.

"Now, I will finish with you, sir," resumed Gaut's lawyer, turning again sternly to Elwood,
from whom he--like many other over-acting attorneys, who cannot see where they should stop
in examinations of this kind--seemed to think he could draw something more that would make
for his client. "When that fellow interrupted me, just now, I was asking what reason, besides
some grudge or malice, you had for your unwarrantable course in pronouncing the respondent
guilty, without proof; for, allowing the furs you swear to were once yours, you don't show,
by a single particle of proof, that he had any thing to do with it more than yourselves, who
were quite as likely to have taken them as he. Yes, what reasons,--facts, facts, I mean; no
more guess-work here; so speak out, sir, like an honest man, if you can."

"I will, then," promptly responded Elwood. "You shall have facts, to your heart's content;
I said what I did because I am convinced he is guilty."

"Convinced!" sneeringly interrupted the other; "there it is again; thrusting in sheer conjectures
for evidence! I must call on the court to interpose with the stubborn and wilful fellow. Didn't
I tell you, sir, I'd have no more of your guess-work? Facts, sir, facts, or nothing."

"Well, you shall have them, then," replied the other, in a determined tone, "for I know enough
facts to convince me, at least, of his guilt. Both before and after we started on our expedition,
he threw out hints to me which I did not then quite understand, but which, since this affair,
I have recalled, and now know what they meant. He hinted, if I would fall into his plan and
keep council, we might--"

"Might what?" sharply demanded the excited and alarmed attorney. "Do you know you are under
oath, sir? Might what, I say?"

"Might get all the furs into our hands, and--"

"Traitor! liar! scoundrel!" exclaimed Gaut Gurley, in a tone that sounded like the hiss of
a serpent, as he bent forward and glared upon Elwood, with an expression so absolutely fiendish
as to make every one in the room pause and shudder, and as to be remembered and recounted,
months afterwards, in connection with events which seemed destined to spring from this worse
than fruitless trial.

"You was going to say," said the attorney for the prosecution, here eagerly pricking up and
turning to the interrupted and now evidently discomposed witness,--"you was going to say, he
proposed that he and you should take all the furs to yourselves, and so rob the rest of the
company!"

"I can't tell the words; but I think he meant that," replied Elwood, in more subdued tones.

"O ho," exclaimed Gaut's lawyer; "you now think, that is, you guess, he meant something that
you didn't dream of his meaning at the time he uttered it. Pretty evidence this; make the most
of it!"

"We will," said the opposite counsel; "and I request the court to take it all down, together
with the prisoner's exclamations of traitor, etc., which involves, indirectly, an admission
that I shall remark on in the argument. Yes, let all this be noted carefully. It is important.
It goes to show the previous design, which, coupled with the identified furs, is, I trust the
court will see, sufficient to fix the crime on the respondent, beyond all doubt or question."

"We will soon show you how much you will make out of your identified furs," rejoined the other
lawyer, with a confident and defiant air.

"Have you witnesses to introduce on the part of the defence?" asked the court.

"Yes, your honor; but our most important one has not yet arrived. We are expecting him every
minute."

At that moment, a shout of surprise and laughter, together with an unusual commotion in the
yard, arrested the attention of all in the court-room; and they mostly rushed to the door or
windows to ascertain the cause, when they were amused to behold the young Indian, Tomah, driving
into the yard, with his moose harnessed to a pung or sledge, of his own rigging up, on which---with
reins and whip in hand---he sat as jauntily as a coachman, and almost with, the same ease,
apparently, brought his strange steed to a stand before the door.

"Our witness has come!" exclaimed Gaut's lawyer, exultingly. "Mr. Sheriff, send out and bring
him in. We will now dispose of this miserable prosecution, in short metre."

In a few minutes Tomah entered the room, and, readily comprehending,--from a knowledge of the
usages of courts he had obtained during his residence in the villages of the whites,--what
was expected of him, now demurely advanced in front of the magistrate, raised his hand, and
received the oath of a witness. He was then shown the lot of furs that had been identified
by the hunters present, his attention directed to the peculiar marks by which part of them
had been distinguished, and he was asked if he had ever seen these furs, and noticed the marks
on them, before.

"Yes, think so," replied Tomah, quietly, as he rapidly handled every large skin, and each parcel
of the smaller ones, keenly noting the palpable marks shown him on the former, and every tie
confining together the latter. "Yes; here bullet-holes on otter; slit on this beaver; cropt
ear on that; little fat back of fore-legs on rest of beaver; wickape strings on that bunch
sable; elm-bark tie on that; and beech twigs on that. Yes, seen 'em all."

"Where? And how do you know the furs? Tell the court all about it," said Gaut's lawyer, as
an exultant smile played over his sardonic features.

"Well, now," calmly and with his usual passionless cast of countenance replied Tomah, after
a considerable pause; "well, this lot of skins all taken from the great lot taken by our company
up round the great lakes, this fall. I come back to settlement, three, four, five days, may
be, 'fore the rest; to see to moose, train him for Boston, and make sled; wanted my part of
furs to sell right off, to bear expenses, and get off on journey soon. Mr. Gurley, then, after
while, said he venture to divide off to me greater part of what I would get for my share of
skins then got into the great camp. So he do it; and I take my part, just this lot you show
me here, and steer off with them to Bethel; but, 'fore got quite there, come cross pedlar and
sold them cheap, for money, and go right back to Mr. Gurley's, where moose was. Found Mr. Gurley
home, too; said he left all furs safe in camp; come for provisions to carry back, to hunt one,
two weeks longer; but storm come, and he stayed to home, and soon heard all the men got home,
too; big storm, bad; I no start for Boston yet, but most ready; go soon, get heap of money
for moose, certain."

The counsel for the prosecution and his clients--on hearing such a piece of testimony from
a witness whom they themselves would have summoned, but for the belief that he would be so
much under the influence and training of Gaut, that little could be drawn from him making against
the latter--were taken so completely by surprise, by the unexpected denouement, that they all
sat mute and dumb-founded for some moments; both lawyer and clients being scarcely able to
credit their own senses, and each hoping that the other had discovered some flaw in the testimony,
by which it could be picked to pieces. But no such flaw or discrepancy could be discovered;
and the testimony, after the severe and prolonged cross-examination to which it was subjected
by the rallying and desperate attorney, remained wholly unshaken, in every material part, standing
out, in all its decisive force and effect, for the exclusive benefit of the respondent. Every
person in the room, indeed, at length became convinced that the young Indian had told the truth,
and that he could know nothing of Gaut's guilt, though unconciously made a witness in his favor;
with the view, probably, of meeting just such an exigency as had occurred in the present prosecution.

The attorney for the prosecution, then, it being agreed to submit the case on the testimony
now in, made a long and ingenious speech, abandoning the matter of the identified furs; dwelling
largely on Gaut's dimly-hinted proposals to Elwood to join in the crime; and, on the ground
that he was the only person in a situation to burn and rob the camp, raising the violent presumption
that he must have perpetrated the double crime.

Gaut's lawyer then rose, with a confident and exultant air, and said he might, with the best
reason in the world, make a plea to the jurisdiction of the court, since he had discovered
that the camp which was alleged to have been burnt was situated some miles within the boundary
of Maine; that no New Hampshire magistrate, of course, could take jurisdiction of the case;
and, that the respondent, on that ground alone, must be at once discharged, if he wished it.
But he did not wish it. He courted a trial and decision, on the merits of the cases which,
after briefly urging the strong points of the defence, he submitted to the court.

Tomah's testimony had settled the case; and, though nearly every one in the room, probably,
were deeply impressed with suspicions of Gaut's guilt, yet all felt that the evidence was not
sufficient for a legal conviction. And they were not surprised, therefore, when the court,
after briefly commenting on the testimony, pronounced the full discharge of the prisoner.

"Ha, ha!" exclaimed Gaut, with a laugh so inconceivably devilish that his own lawyer, even,
recoiled at the sound. "Ha, ha!" he repeated, with a smile on his lips, made ghastly by the
fires of concentrated malice that shot from his eyes. "Wouldn't my good friends, here, like
to try this game again?"

"Yes," boldly retorted the hunter. "Yes, and we shall, with evidence Heaven will direct us
where to find. Your time hasn't come. But it will come! God ain't dead yet!"

CHAPTER XVII.         KEATS.

It is not to be supposed that a lawsuit, or prosecution, in so new and remote a settlement,
especially one that involved so many interests, and whose result must have so many and complicated
bearings, as the one described in the last chapter, would be suffered to pass away like any
ordinary occurrence and be forgotten. With the settlers, besides the novelty of having a court
held among them, for any cause, it was an extraordinary occurrence that there should be any
grounds for a prosecution or lawsuit of this character,--extraordinary that any one should
be found base enough to violate the common faith and honesty which the trappers and hunters
had, up to that time, so implicitly reposed in, and observed with each other,--and doubly extraordinary
that the perpetrator could not be detected and brought to punishment. To them, such a flagitious
betrayal of trust was a new and startling event. They felt it deeply concerned them all; and
the sensation it produced was accordingly as profound as it was general, in all that region
of the country.

But, if such was the effect of the unfortunate occurrence in question, on the community at
large, how much more deeply would the effect be naturally felt by the parties immediately concerned?
By the loss of their stock of furs, three families, at least, were deprived of the means on
which they had relied for supplying them, with a large part of the necessaries of life, through
the ensuing winter; while, besides this, many a wife and child were doomed to sad disappointment,
in being thus deprived of the fondly-anticipated purchases of articles of dress, books, and
various other little comforts, which had been promised them on the division and sale of the
peltries. Nor were these the only interests and feelings affected by the event and its concomitants.
Friendships were broken, and even more tender relations were disturbed, if, indeed, their further
existence were not to be terminated. By the open, and as was supposed irreconcilable, quarrel
between Mark Elwood and the terribly vindictive Gaut Gurley, their children, Claud and Avis,
who were understood to be under mutual engagement of marriage, were placed in a position at
once painful and embarrassing in the extreme. And Claud, especially, although he had carefully
abstained from all accusations of Gaut, had taken no part in getting up the prosecution, and
purposely absented himself from the trial, yet felt very keenly the perplexing dilemma into
which he would be thrown, by continuing the connecting link between two such deadly foes as
he now found his father, whom he could not desert, and Gaut Gurley, whom he felt conscious
he could not defend. And for this reason he had, from time to time, deferred the visit to Avis,
which he had designed, and which she would naturally expect on his return from the expedition.
But still he could not see how a quarrel between the fathers discharged him from his obligations
to her; and he grew more and more doubtful and uneasy in the position he found himself occupying.
He was soon, however, to be relieved. One day, a short time after the trial, while he was anxiously
revolving the subject in mind, a boy, who had come as a special messenger from the Magalloway
settlement (for the purpose, as it appeared), brought him the following letter:

"DEAR CLAUD,--You do not know, you cannot know, what the effort costs me to write this. You
do not know, you cannot know, what I have felt, what I have suffered since I became fully apprised
of the painful circumstances under which your late expedition was brought to a close; and especially
since I became apprised of the lamentable scenes that occurred in the court, growing out of
that unfortunate--O how unfortunate, expedition! Before that court was held, and during the
doubtful days which intervened between it and your escape from the terrible perils that attended
your return, the hope that all would, all must turn out right, in some measure relieved my
harrowing fears and anxieties; though even then the latter was to the former as days of cloud
to minutes of sunshine. But, when I heard what occurred at the trial,--the bitter crimination
and recrimination, the open rupture, the menaces exchanged, and the angry parting,--and, more
alarming than all, when I saw my father return in that fearful mood, from which he still refuses
to be diverted, the last gleam of hope faded, and all became cloud, all gloom,--dark, impenetrable,
and forbidding. My nights, when sleep at length comes to close my weeping eyes, are passed
in troubled dreams; my days in more troubled thoughts, which I would fain believe were dreams
also. O, why need this be? I have done nothing,--you have done nothing; and I have no doubt
of your faith and honor for performing all I shall ever require at your hands. But, Claud,
I love you, and all

  'Know love is woman's happiness;'

and all know, likewise, that the ties of love are but gossamer threads, which a word may rupture,
a breath shake, and even the power of unpleasant associations destroy. Still, is there not
one hope,--the hope that this thread, hitherto so blissfully uniting our hearts, subtle and
attenuated as it is, may yet be preserved unbroken, if we suffer no opinion, no word, no syllable
to escape our lips, respecting the unfortunate affair that is embroiling our parents; if we
wholly deny ourselves the pleasure of that social intercourse which, to me, at least, has thus
far made this wilderness an Eden of delight? But can it be thus preserved, if we keep up that
intercourse, as in the sunshine of our love,--those pleasant, fleeting, rosy months, when I
was so happy, O so very happy, in the feelings of the present and the prospects of the future?
No, no, it is not possible, it is not possible for you to come here, and encounter my father
in such a mood, and then return and receive the upbraidings of your own, that you are joining
or upholding the house of his foes. It is not possible for you to do this, and your heart receive
no jar, and mine no fears or suspicions of its continued fealty. I dare not risk it. Then do
not, dearest Claud, O do not come here, at least for the present. Perhaps my dark forebodings,
that our connection is not to be blessed for our future happiness, may be groundless. Perhaps
the storm that now so darkly hangs over us may pass harmlessly away. Perhaps this painful and
perplexing misunderstanding--as I trust in Heaven's mercy it only is--may yet be placed in
a light which will admit of a full reconciliation between our respective families. But, till
then, let our relations to each other stand, if you feel disposed to let them, precisely as
we left them at our last mournfully happy parting; for, till then, though it break my heart,
I could never, never consent to a renewal of our intercourse. Have I said enough, and not too
much? I could not, under the almost insupportable weight of grief, fear, and anxiety, that
is distracting my brain, and crushing my poor heart,--I could not say less, I dare not say
more. O Claud, Claud, why has this dreadful cloud come over us? O, pray that it may be speedily
removed, and once more let in, on our pained and perplexed hearts, the sunshine of their former
happiness. Dearest Claud, good-by; don't come, but don't forget.

  "AVIS."

Claud felt greatly relieved, in some respects, by this unexpected missive; in others, the contents
caused him uneasiness and self-condemnation. It relieved him from the sense of obligation he
had entertained, to make the dreaded visit to the house of Gaut Gurley,--who, with every desire
to arrive at a different conclusion, he could no longer believe guiltless of the basest of
frauds, and the basest of means to conceal it. It relieved him, indeed, on this point; but,
as we have said, made him sad and thoughtful on others. The great grief and distress under
which the fair writer was so evidently laboring, and the deep-rooted love for him which was
revealed in almost every line, but which her pride, in the bright hours of their courtship,
had never permitted her to disclose, keenly touched his feelings, and rose in condemnation
of the comparative indifference, which, in spite of all his efforts to correct its waywardness,
he felt conscious had been gradually stealing over his heart, since his admiration, to say
the least, had been raised by a rival vision of loveliness. In the newly-awakened feeling of
the moment, however, he bitterly upbraided himself for his tergiversations in suffering his
thoughts to vacillate between the Star of the Magalloway, who had his plighted faith, and Flower
of the Lakes, who had no claims to his special consideration. But still, when his thoughts
wandered over the scenes of the past summer, which now, since trial and hardship had brought
his mind back within the dominion of reason and judgment, seemed much more like dreams than
realities,--when he thought of the manner in which he became acquainted with Avis Gurley; how
he persisted in gaining her affections, and kindling into an over-mastering flame his own fancy-lit
love; and finally, how, against the known wishes of his family, and the dictates of his own
sober judgment, he had urged her into an engagement of marriage, which he could now see had,
as his mother predicted, in all probability led to a renewal of the intimacy between his father
and Gaut Gurley, and that last intimacy to the present disaster, and a new quarrel, whose consequences
might yet well be looked for with uneasiness and apprehension,--when he thought of all this,
he deeply condemned his own indiscretion, and could not help wishing himself clear from an
engagement, which, like every thing connected with the schemes of that dark and dreaded man,
who was now an object of suspicion through the whole settlement, seemed destined to lead only
to trouble and disaster. Such was the maze of perplexity by which the young man, now too late
for an honorable retreat, found himself on every side thickly environed. Yet, for all this,
and in despite of all these perplexities and misgivings, he resolved he would not cease to
play the man, but honorably fulfil all his obligations in such manner as should be required of him.

So much for the love and its hapless entanglements, which had been so deeply but so unsatisfactorily
occupying, for the last few weeks, the thoughts of Claud Elwood, who then little suspected
that there was another heart, besides that of the pure, proud, and impassioned Avis Gurley,
whose every pulse, in the great unseen system of intermingling sympathies, beat in trembling
vibration to his own,--a heart that had been won uncourted and unknown,--a heart that had secretly
nursed, in the favoring solitudes of these wild lakes, and brooded over, a passion more deep
and intense than words could well be found to describe. There was such a heart; and that heart
was now wildly beating, in the agonizing uncertainties of a hoped reciprocation, in the bosom
of that peerless child of the forest, the beautiful Fluella; and all the more intense were
its workings, because confined to its own deep recesses, where the hidden flame was laboring
constantly for an outlet to its pride-walled prison, but as constantly shrinking in terror
from the disclosure. She had once, however, through the violence of emotions which she could
not control, accidentally betrayed the state of her feelings; but it was to one in whose discretion
and friendship she was soon made to repose undoubting confidence, and with whom, therefore,
she at length became reconciled to let her secret remain. The person, who had thus become the
depositary of that secret was, as the reader may remember, Mrs. Elwood. The consciousness that
this lady knew all, coupled as it was with the thought of the relation in which the latter
stood to the object of her secret idolatry, had irresistibly drawn to her the yearning heart
of the guileless maiden. She had longed for another interview, but dare not seek it; longed
for some excuse for opening a communication with her, but could not find one. At length, however,
fortune opened the desired avenue; and, after much hesitation and trembling, she summoned up
the courage to avail herself of the offered opportunity. Phillips, in his determination to
ferret out the outrage which had been committed on him and his companions, and of the author
of which he still entertained no doubt, had, immediately after the trial, commenced a series
of rapid journeys to all the nearest villages or trading towns in Maine and New Hampshire,
to ascertain if any lot of furs, answering to those caught by his company, had been sold in
those places. And one of these journeys, for that and other purposes, he had extended to the
seaboard. On his return home, he immediately repaired to his neighbor Elwood's, and, unperceived,
slipped into the hands of Mrs. Elwood a letter, which the wondering matron soon took to a private
room, curiously opened, and, with a deep, undefined interest and varying emotions, commenced
reading. It ran thus:

"MRS. ELWOOD, MY FRIEND,--Our Mr. Phillips has been here, and told us all that has happened
in your settlement. Mrs. Elwood, I am greatly troubled at the loss your family suffer, with
the rest of the hunters, but still more troubled and fearful for your husband and your noble
son, about what may grow out of the quarrel with that dark man. My father knew him, time long
past, and said there would be mischief done the company, when we heard he was going with them.
I hope Mr. Elwood will keep out of his way; and I hope, Claud,--O, I cannot write the thought.
Mrs. Elwood, I am very unhappy. I sometimes wish your brave and noble son had suffered me to
go down and be lost in the dark, wild waters of those fearful rapids. By the goodness of my
white father, whom I am proud to hope you may some time see with me in your settlement, I have
all the comforts and indulgences that a heart at ease could desire; warm, carpeted rooms, dress,
books, company, smooth flatterers, who mean little, it may be, together with real friends,
who mean much, and prove it by actions, which do not, like words, ever deceive. And yet, Mrs.
Elwood, they are all now without any charms for me. My heart is in your settlement. The grand
old forest, and the bright lake, were always things of beauty for me, before I saw him; but
now, when associated with him,--O, Mrs. Elwood, if I did not know you had something of what
I meant should forever be kept secret from all but the Great Eye, in your keeping, and if you
had not made me feel you would be my discreet friend, and keep it as safe from all as an unspoken
thought, I would not for worlds write what I have, and what I every moment find my pen on the
point of writing more fully. O, how I wish I could make you understand, without words, what
I feel,--how I grieve over what I almost know must be vain hopes, and vainer visions of happiness!
You have sometimes had, it may be, very bright, delightful dreams, which seemed to bring you
all your heart desired; and then you suddenly awoke, and found all had vanished, leaving you
dark and sad with disappointment and regret. If you have, you may fancy what my thoughts are
undergoing every hour of the day. O, how my heart is drawn away towards you! I often feel that
I must fly up, like a bird, to be there. I should come now, but for what might be thought.
I shall certainly be there in early spring. I can't stay away, though I may come only to see
what I could bear less easy than these haunting, troubled fancies. Mrs. Elwood, adieu. You
won't show this, or breathe a word about it,--I know you won't; you could not be so cruel as
that. Mrs. Elwood, may I not sign myself your friend?          FLUELLA."

On perusing this unexpected communication, Mrs. Elwood felt--she scarcely knew herself what
she felt, except a keenly appreciating sense of the writer's embarrassed feelings, and except,
also, the pleasurable emotions which this timid and tender outpouring of an unsophisticated
heart somehow afforded her. Ever since her singular interview with this remarkable girl, as
described in a former chapter, Mrs. Elwood had not ceased to think of her as of some good angel,
sent by an interposing Providence, in answer to the agonizing supplications which immediately
preceded her unexpected appearance at the time,--sent to be the means, in some unforeseen way,
of extricating her family from the fatal influences, as she viewed them, under which they had
insidiously been brought by their different connections with the Gurleys. Especially had she
been impressed that this would prove the case, in all that related to her idolized son, Claud;
whom, in her disregard to all considerations of lineage, when relieved by such excellence of
beauty and character, she would a thousand times rather have seen united to the Indian girl
than to the one he appeared to have chosen. She was, therefore, besides being touched by the
broken pathos of the letter, gratified by its reception; for it seemed to come as a sort of
confirmation of her grateful presentiment, that her son, at least, was to be happily disenthralled.
Nor was she, at this time, without the evidence which led her to hope that her husband, also,
had now finally escaped from the toils that had, once and again, caused him such calamity and
suffering. The sudden and terrible outbreak of indignation, which, with equal surprise and
gratification, she had seen him exhibit against Gaut, and the quarrel in court, which followed
in consequence, must, she thought, now forever keep them separate. If so, poorly as her family
could afford to suffer their part of the loss of the avails of the fall's work, she would cheerfully
bear it, and even look upon the event in the light of a Heaven-sent mercy. But even of this
poor comfort she was destined soon to be deprived. After the trial, Mark Elwood--who, however
bravely he bore himself at first, on that occasion, was finally seen to quail under the terrible
glances of Gaut--soon became strangely silent respecting the prosecution and supposed perpetration
of the offence about which he had before manifested so much zeal and indignation. And, in the
active exertions which Phillips and Codman, in the vain search for evidence or some clue to
the robbery of the furs, perseveringly kept up during the whole of the long and dreary winter
that followed, he could not be induced to take any decided part. Nor would he, when they met
him at his own house, or that of Phillips, as they several times did, that winter, to compare
the discoveries and observations they had made, and discuss the subject, any longer maintain
the position he at first so boldly took, respecting Gaut's guilt, or say any thing in aid of
their deliberations. He, indeed, as they grew more decided and convinced, seemed to grow more
wavering and doubtful. Such was his demeanor and conduct in company of his late companions;
while, with his own family, he appeared moody, irresolute, and restless, and even, at length,
he began to throw out occasional hints tending to defend or extenuate the conduct of the very
man whom, a few weeks before, he had so confidently denounced as a thief and a robber. Alarmed
at these indications of returning weakness and fatuity in her husband, Mrs. Elwood soon put
herself on inquiry, to ascertain the cause; and she was not long in making discoveries that
more than justified her worst fears and suspicions.

It appeared that Gaut Gurley, after his arrest, and after his escape from the punishment of
the law, through the means, as was now generally believed, which he had cunningly provided
before he entered on the commission of the offence charged, remained almost constantly at home,
during nearly the whole winter, brooding, in savage mood, over his own dark thoughts and varying
schemes for advantage and revenge, keeping his family in continual awe of him, and causing
all who approached him to recoil, shuddering, from his presence, and mark him as a dangerous
man in the community. Towards spring, however, he appeared suddenly to change his tactics,
or, at least, to undergo a great change in his deportment and conduct. All at once, he came
round in his usual manner. The dark cloud had been banished from his brow. He civilly accosted
every acquaintance he met, appeared cheerful and good-humored, and desirous of prolonging the
conversation with all with whom he came in contact, without seeming to notice, in the least,
the evident inclination of most of the settlers to avoid his company. He came down, every few
days, to the little village before named as the place where the court was held, and lounged
for hours about the tavern; which, during the winter season, was the common resort of the settlers.
Here he soon encountered his old companions, Phillips, Codman, and the Elwoods, all of whom,
notwithstanding the cold and demure manner with which the two former, at least, turned away
from him, he saluted with careless ease, and as if nothing had happened to disturb their former
social relations. And, having thus surmounted the somewhat difficult task of breaking the ice
with them, without receiving the open and absolute repulse which, however disposed, they did
not deem it wise to give him, he, at the next meeting, ventured to broach the subject of their
late quarrel, affecting to laugh at their mutual exhibitions of folly in getting so angry with
each other in court, under the belief, on his part, that they had got the furs, and, on their
part, that he had made way with them; when neither of them were guilty, and ought not to be
charged with the offence. For himself, he said, he was now satisfied, on thinking the matter
over, who were the real culprits. They were a couple of "cussed runagate Indians," that had
strolled over from Canada, and, having discovered his camp, had laid in wait for his absence.
He had seen the tracks of two different-sized moccasins in the sand on the lake-shore, but
two days before he left; but the circumstance was forgotten, or he should not have left the
camp unguarded. It was a great loss for them all; but it would not help the matter to mourn
now. It must be borne; and he knew of no way to make it up but to try their luck in another
expedition. He should, for his part; for he had no notion of giving up so.

Such was the drift of his conversation at this interview; and, seeming to think he had ventured
far enough for one experiment on their credulity, he dropped that subject and struck off on
to others. But the next time he met them he contrived to turn the conversation upon the same
theme; when, telling them with a confidential air that, a few days before he left camp, he
discovered, on a stream coming in at the upper end of the Megantic, a succession of freshly-constructed
beaver dams, which, from the number of houses and other indications around each, he thought
must be occupied by one of the largest colonies of beavers ever collected on one stream in
that part of the country, he directly proposed to them to join him, when the spring opened,
in an expedition to secure this extraordinary collection of the valuable animals that were,
unquestionably, still all there, and as unquestionably might be captured.

This story, with the accompanying proposal, presented, as Gaut well knew, the most tempting
inducement that could be offered, to trappers. But it made no impression on Phillips and Codman.
They deeply distrusted the man, his whole story, and the motives which they believed moved
him to concoct it. Spurning in their hearts, therefore, the bait that had been so artfully
laid for them, they would have nothing to do with him or his proposal. And, both then and thereafter,
they remained unmoved, and stood proof against all the arguments his taxed ingenuity and devilish
cunning could invent and bring to bear upon them.

With the infatuated Mark Elwood, however, the case seemed to be almost wholly reversed. He
again listened,--was again lost. He, restless, uneasy, and evidently apprehensive of something
he did not disclose, from continuing under the terrible displeasure which Gaut had so significantly
manifested towards him,--he had appeared, from the first, to hail with pleasure the indications
of the relenting mood of the other, and seemed but too glad to be again noticed with favor.
He could see no reason to distrust the man's sincerity, he said, when others raised the question;
and he was much inclined to adopt his version of the robbery and burning of their camp. When,
therefore, the proposal of a new expedition was made, under the circumstances we have named,
the blinded Elwood seemed fully prepared to accept it; and he would have openly and without
reserve done so, but for the restraining presence of his companions, who, he felt conscious,
would disapprove and deprecate his conduct. Gaut had noticed all this, and was not long in
bringing about a private interview with his dupe and victim, which resulted, as might be supposed,
in settling the matter in just the way he intended.

From that time, the conduct of Mark Elwood became wholly inexplicable to all his friends and
acquaintances in the settlement. He commenced with defending Gaut Gurley, thus giving the lie
to all he had said, and ended with declaring an intention of accompanying him in another trapping
expedition to the upper lakes, to be entered upon on a given day in April, then near at hand.
And, in spite of all the advice and warnings of his late associates in the former disastrous
campaign; the remonstrances of his son, who shared in the apprehensions of the others; and
the agonizing tears and entreaties of his wife, he strangely persisted in his purpose, and,
like the fated one of the Scriptures, steadily "set his face" towards his contemplated destination.

"The man is hurried!" said Phillips to Codman, as they left Elwood's on a second and last visit,
made with the sole object of dissuading him from a step which they shrank from themselves,--that
of going into the distant forest with such a desperate fellow as they now deeply suspected
Gaut Gurley to be,--"the man is evidently hurried. When I saw that look Gaut gave Elwood in
court, I knew he was marked for destruction, more especially than the rest of us, who are doubtless
both placed on the same list. And Elwood would see it himself, if he was right-minded. Yes,
he is hurried, and can't help it. He will go, and God grant my fears may not be realized."

And he did go, but not alone. As soon as Claud became fully satisfied that his father's purpose
was not to be shaken, he began earnestly to debate in mind the question whether he himself
should not, as a filial duty, become a participant in the expedition, with the view of making
his presence instrumental in averting the apprehended danger. And, although he perceived that
his mother's distress, all troubled and doubtful as she was in deciding between her conflicting
duties of affection, would be enhanced by the step; and, although his mind had been still more
staggered by a brief confidential note from Avis Gurley, advising him, if not too late, to
find means to break up the project of the expedition entirely, yet he finally made up his mind
in the affirmative. And, accordingly, on the morning of the appointed day, both father and
son, after a leave-taking with the despondent wife and mother, more ominously sad and mournful
than had ever before marked their family trials, set forth again for the wild wastes of the
lakes, with their now doubly questionable companion.

CHAPTER XVIII.
    BRYANT'S MURDERED TRAVELLER.

It was the second week in May; and spring, delightful spring, sweet herald of happiness to
all the living creatures that have undergone the almost literal imprisonment of one of the
long and dreary winters of our hyperborean clime, was beginning to sprinkle the green glories
of approaching summer over the reanimated wilderness. In the physical world, all seemed light
and laughing around:

  --"the green soil with joyous living things
  Swarm'd, the wide air was full of joyous wings."

The sun, no longer feebly struggling through the dark, obstructed medium of a northern winter's
atmosphere, was throwing abroad his clear, unstinted floods of living light, bathing with soft
radiance the diversified face of the basking forest, and gleaming far and brightly over the
soothed waters of the sleeping lake. The mild and genial zephyrs were discoursing the low,
sweet, melancholy music of their aeolian harps, among the gently-wavering tops of the whispering
pines. The choral throng of feathered songsters were filling every grove, glade, or glen, of
field and forest, with the glad strains of their merry melodies. And all nature seemed crying
aloud, in the fulness of her happiness,

  "The summer is coming; rejoice ye, rejoice!"

So smiled every thing, animate and inanimate, in the visible physical world, as circumscribed
to this secluded settlement, on the morning when opened the first scene in the closing act
of our story's changeful drama. But in the moral world, so far as the interests and feelings
of most of our leading personages were involved, the skies were overcast with contrasted clouds
of doubt and darkness.

On that morning, at the Elwood Landing, on the western shore of Umbagog, stood a collected
group of excited people, of different ages and sexes, gazing anxiously across the lake in the
direction of the great inlet, as if expecting the appearance of some object or person from
that quarter. But, before naming the cause of their assembling and the objects of their present
solicitude, we will leave them a moment for a brief--but, for the understanding of the reader,
necessary--recurrence to what had transpired, in the interim between the departure of the two
Elwoods and Gaut Gurley, and the present occasion.

For nearly a month after her husband and son left home, Mrs. Elwood had been wholly unable
to obtain any tidings of them, or any information even of their locality on the upper lakes.
And gloomily, O how gloomily, with her, passed the long and dreary days and sleepless nights
of that dismal period! Little had occurred to vary the monotony of her harrowing anxieties;
and that little tended rather to increase than relieve them. For, even from the limited intercourse
she had with families of the settlers,--although their conversation, out of regard to her feelings,
was restrained and guarded, when the subject nearest her heart was introduced,--she gathered
the fact that she was not alone in her fears and anxieties, but that they were shared, to a
greater or less extent, by the people of the whole settlement; among whom the subject was being
daily discussed, at every fireside, with avowed apprehensions that some fearful fate was awaiting
one or both of the Elwoods, in their sojourn in the forest, in whose dark recesses there would
be no witnesses to restrain the evil-doer from the purposes of robbery and revenge which they
generally believed he secretly entertained. But, among all the settlers, no one had exhibited
so much anxiety and restlessness as the hunter, Phillips. He had been almost continually absent
from home, evidently to distant places, but where and with what objects he declined to make
known. The direction and object of one of these secret journeys, however, was inferred from
the unexpectedly early return of Fluella, the lovely maid of the forest, who had no sooner
reached her old home than she flew to the Elwood cottage, to mingle her tears and sympathies
with those of the anxious and troubled matron; who, in the circumstances, could have received
no more acceptable visit. With the opening of the season, also, other absentees had returned
to the settlement. Carvil had come back, to ascertain what had been effected in relation to
the supposed robbery of the furs, the fall before, having intrusted his interests to the care
of Phillips; and now feeling, with the others, apprehensive for the result of the new expedition,
he was anxiously awaiting the return of the absent trappers. Tomah, the eccentric young Indian,
likewise had surprised the settlers by his sudden reappearance among them, in a suit of superfine
broadcloth, hat and boots to match, gold watch, showy seals, and all the gewgaw etceteras that
go to make up the animal they call a city dandy. He had sold his moose, it appeared, for four
hundred dollars, and brought nearly the whole of it home on his bedizened person,--with the
object, as he soon admitted, of dazzling the hitherto obdurate Fluella.

"Yes,--catch her sartain, now," he said, with a complaisant glance over his dashing rig, on
departing for the chief's, as soon as he ascertained the fair object of his pursuit had returned
to her father's. But he soon came back, in a great miff, and offered to sell the whole of his
fine new outfit for just one half what it cost him. Contrary to expectation, he declared he
would have nothing more to do with Gaut Gurley; concerning whom he had seen something, about
the time of the trial, to awaken his suspicions, and against whom he now evidently stood ready
to array himself, with the rest, on the next occasion.

With these few incidents, April passed away, and the first day of May, the usual limit of the
fur season, had arrived; but with it the absent trappers had failed to make their appearance.
Another week passed, and still they came not. "What could it mean?" was on every tongue. Men
ominously shook their heads, and women and children began, in the connection, to talk in suppressed
voices of the dark character of Gaut Gurley.

At this juncture, word came that Gaut had returned, and had several times been seen about his
home. A man was immediately dispatched to Gaut's residence, for inquiries about the Elwoods;
but the messenger returned and reported that Gaut said he parted with them on the Maguntic,--he
to go over the mountains to his home, on the Magalloway, and they, in their canoe, that had
been frozen up in Oquossak, the fall before, to go to Bethel to sell their furs. Further than
this, he knew nothing about them.

"I don't believe a word of it!" exclaimed the hunter, who with many others had anxiously awaited,
at the tavern, the messenger's return: "not one word of it! They would not have gone off to
Bethel after such an absence, before returning home; or, if they had, they would have been
here before this time. But the story shall be investigated without twelve hours delay. It is
time we were moving in the business. Who will furnish me with a good saddle-horse?"

The horse was furnished; and within half an hour the excited hunter was speeding his way to Bethel.

He returned early the next morning, in a state of still greater excitement and concern than
before; having ridden all night, in his anxiety to reach the settlement by the time people
were up, so that immediate measures might be put afoot to scour the country in search of the
missing Elwoods, whose continued absence had now become doubly mysterious and alarming, by
the discovery he had made, as he feared he should, that they had not gone to Bethel at all,
nor been seen or heard of anywhere in that direction.

The news of Gaut's return alone, his improbable story, and the discovery of its almost certain
falsity, spread like wild-fire over the settlement; and the people, already prepared to believe
the worst by their previous suspicions of Gaut's evil designs, rose up as one man, instinctively
shuddering at the thought of the apprehended crime, and feeling irresistibly impelled to attempt
something to bring about that fearful atonement which Heaven demands of every man who wilfully
sheds the blood of his fellow-man. So deep and absorbing was this feeling, indeed, in the present
instance, that men dropped their hoes in the field, left their axes sticking in the trees,
and threw aside all other kinds of business, and, with excited and troubled looks, hurried
off to the scene of action, to see, hear, and join in whatever movement the exigencies of the
case might require to be made. And before night nearly the whole of the settlers, residing
within a circuit of a dozen miles of the surrounding country, had assembled at the tavern in
the rustic hamlet, which, as before mentioned, they made, on all extraordinary occasions, the
place of their common rendezvous. Here, after conversing a while in scattered groups, exchanging
in low, hurried tones, and with many an apprehensive glance around them, their various opinions
and conjectures, they gradually gathered in one room in the tavern, formed themselves into
something like an organized meeting, and began their deliberations. But, before they had settled
on any definite course of action, their attention was suddenly turned from the channel their
minds were all evidently taking, by a new and unexpected occurrence.

Two young men, who had that day been across the lake to the Great Rapids, for the purpose of
fishing, returned to the village about sunset, with the news that they had discovered, at the
foot of the most dangerous pass of the rapids, wedged in among the projecting flood-wood of
the place, a partially-wrecked and stove canoe, which they both recognized as the one kept
by the Elwoods at their landing last summer, and, of course, the one they took away with them
in their succeeding fall expedition. This fact, all at once readily perceived, might throw
an entirely new aspect over the whole of the mysterious affair; and they soon decided on dispatching
the same young men, at daybreak the next morning, across the lake, to examine carefully both
shores of the inlet up to, and some distance beyond, the place where they found the canoe,
to see if they could find any thing else, or discover any indications going to show that anybody
had been wrecked and drowned there; then to return, as quickly as possible, with the wrecked
canoe in tow, and whatever else they might find, to the Elwood landing; where the company would
assemble, by the middle of the forenoon, to receive them, hear their report, examine the canoe,
and take action according to the circumstances.

It was done; and this was the occasion of the assembling at the landing of the mingled and
anxious group which we began to describe near the commencement of this chapter, and to which
we will now return.

Foremost in the mingled group of people which we have thus brought to view, was the agonized
wife and mother of the missing or lost men; whose doubtful fate was also engrossing, though
less intensely, every thought and feeling of the sympathizing company around her. She had gradually
worked herself down to the extremest verge of the low shore, and had unconsciously placed one
foot in the edge of the water, as if irresistibly drawn to the farthest possible limit in the
supposed direction of those two objects of her affection, who, alive or dead, were still her
all-in-all of this world; and there she stood, slightly inclined forward, but motionless, mute,
and pale as a marble statue, with lips painfully compressed, and eyes, glazed and watery, intently
fixed on the opposite shore of the lake to which she was looking for relief, at least from
the terrible suspense under which she was suffering. By her side, a little back, stood the
wife of the hunter, and two or three other women of the vicinity, who had more particularly
interested themselves in her troubles,--some shedding sympathetic tears, and some offering
an occasional word, which they hoped might in a slight degree divert her sorrows or console
her in her anguish. But, alike regardless of their falling tears and soothing remarks, she
gazed on, in unbroken silence, hour after hour, taking no note of time, or any object around
her, in the all-absorbing intensity of her feelings. Little, indeed, was said by any of the
company. The younger portion stood in hushed awe at the sight of grief in the older, and at
the thought of what might the next hour befall. And the men, though visibly exercised by strong
emotions, and occasionally revealing a trembling lip or starting tear, as they glanced at the
face of the chief sufferer, yet offered scarce a remark to relieve the pervading gloom of the
sad and anxious hour. The whole group, indeed, might have been taken for a funeral cortege,
awaiting on the shore the expected remains of some deceased friend.

After standing in this manner till nearly noon, the company caught sight of a scarcely-perceptible
object on the water, in the direction of the great inlet. And, although for some time it appeared
like a speck, as seen against the low, green fringe of the opposite and far-distant shore,
yet it at length so enlarged on the vision that the form of a canoe and the gleam of flashing
oars became distinctly discernible. Soon a little variation in the line of approach brought
not only the canoe and the rowers, but another canoe in tow, plainly in view; and then all
knew that their painful suspense was about to be ended. Another half-hour had to be passed
by the company, who still stood there in trembling expectation, awaiting the approach of the
canoes; when, as the latter now came within hailing distance, the impatient hunter stepped
down to the water's edge, and called out:

"What news do you bring?"

"None! but we have brought the canoe."

"I see; but have you made no discoveries?"

"None whatever."

"No caps, packs, or bunches of furs washed up anywhere?"

"No, nothing. We examined thoroughly both shores of the rapids, and found nothing, and no mark
or sign of any thing about which any conclusion could be formed respecting the manner the canoe
got there."

"But the oars?"

"We found them in the same flood-wood with the boat, and they appeared as if they were thrown
out of the canoe when it struck."

The canoe, which was the object of scrutiny, and which had been injured much less than had
been supposed, a break in the upper part of the bow being the only ruptured part, was now drawn
up on the shore; when Phillips, Codman, and Tomah took upon themselves to go into a minute
and careful inspection of every part of its outer and inner surface, together with every appearance
from which any inference having the least bearing on the question at issue could be drawn by
these experienced and observing canoe-men.

"Men no leave oars in canoe, when go over falls," at length observed the Indian, standing back
with the air of one who has satisfied himself with an examination,--"no leave oars that way;
have them out to use; and then, when upset, drop 'em in the river; where get scattered, go
down, wash up different places, mile apart, may be,--not together, right close side of canoe,
likely. Don't believe so much story, like that come to."

"Spoke like a man who knows something," said the trapper, the next to offer comments. "And
here is a loosened slip-knot in the end of this bark boat-rope, which I have been looking at.
See! it has been drawn into a fixed knot, that hasn't been altered since it has had considerable
use and steady pulling through it, as I see by the chafed bark inside the small hole within
the knot. The hole is too small to have been brought into this shape by hitching it to a stake
or projecting limb of a tree on shore. It looks exactly as if a tie attached to some other
canoe had been passed through it, to draw this canoe along by; and here is a slight mark of
a knife, where that tie has been cut out, owing to the difficulty of untying. This canoe must
have been hitched behind some other canoe, and towed down to the head of the rapids, and there
sent adrift."

"Yes," responded the hunter, who had been particularly confining his attention to the outer
and top edges along the sides of the boat; "yes; and here is the moss or scurf that had gathered
on these upper edges, on both sides, during the snows and thaws of winter, still remaining
entire and unbroken, in every part of this delicate weather coating, which even a thumbnail,
as you see, can't pass over without marring it or leaving a mark. No man could have rowed this
canoe twenty rods without grazing these edges and leaving marks on them. Yes, you are both
right. This canoe, which I suppose you all agree was Mr. Elwood's, has not been rowed since
he left it hauled up on the shore of the Oquossak last fall, to be buried by the great snow-storm;
and the Elwoods are both safe, for all being wrecked and drowned from that boat, or any other,
I presume."

The countenance of Mrs. Elwood, who stood at some little distance from the spot where the examination
of the canoe had been going on, but near enough to hear most of what was said, visibly brightened
at this announcement. The hunter saw the expression, and a shade of anguish passed over his
face, as, turning to those immediately around him, and speaking in a low, subdued, and commiserating
tone, he resumed:

"I cannot find it in my heart to dampen the new-lighted hope which this turn of the affair
seems to give that poor, wretched wife and mother. But, to my mind, all this makes it doubly
certain that the Elwoods have met with foul play. It looks exactly like one of Gaut's devilish
schemes of finesse, to cause this canoe to be sent down the rapids, and be so found as to lead
folks to suppose the owners were drowned, and to put the public on a false scent. Yes, friends,
you may depend there has been foul play,--I dare not guess how foul. I have felt it the last
fortnight, as if same unseen hand was writing the dreadful secret on my heart. I feel it still,
now stronger than ever. And I call God to witness my resolution, that I will know no rest or
relaxing till I see the dark deed laid open to day, and its infernal author brought to justice.
Will you all join me in the work, without flinching or flagging?"

The low but firmly-responded "Yes, yes, all of us," told the hunter that he would know no lack
of efficient aid in carrying out his resolution.

"Let us, then," he said, "leave the women and boys, a few minutes, and retire back here a few
rods, out of their hearing, to determine on the first steps to be taken."

In accordance with this suggestion, the men withdrew, by themselves, to a convenient place
on the site of an old camping-ground, within the forest, a few rods farther up the lake, leaving
Mrs. Elwood and her female attendants slowly retracing their steps back to her house, from
which they had accompanied her to this spot, and the boys amusing themselves in seeing who
could throw a stone farthest into the lake. The men, now relieved from the fear of causing
Mrs. Elwood needless alarm, and of having their remarks reported by others of the mingled company,--to
the injury, perhaps, of the investigation on hand,--at once gave vent to their smothered convictions,
and feelings of indignation and horror, in an exciting debate; which soon resulted in the determination
to dispatch, the next morning, four men in two canoes up the lakes, in search of the missing,
or such traces of them as might lead to a discovery of their fate; while the rest should remain
in the settlement, to watch for new indications there and keep a vigilant eye on the movements
of the bold but wary villain, whom they all believed to be the perpetrator of the supposed
outrage. But, before they had fully settled the details of their plan, their attention was
arrested by a shouting from the boys, who announced that a strange canoe was approaching them
from the other part of the lake. Hearing this, and thinking the new-comer might have perhaps
arrived from the upper lakes, and could give them important information, the men immediately
suspended their consultation, and came out to the landing to hail him, or to await his approach.
They soon discovered that the rower was an Indian, and it was not long before the trapper began
to recognize the canoe, from some peculiarity about the bow, to be his own, and the one he
had left with the boats of his companions on the Oquossak the season before. This, if true,
might lead to important developments; and the company kept their eyes keenly fixed on the rower,
to see if he would manifest any disposition to avoid them. But he kept steadily on towards
the landing, and, in another minute, was within near hailing distance.

"Hillo! my red friend, where did you get that canoe?" cried the trapper.

"Tell you soon,--you make me believe you right to know," quietly replied the native, without
appearing to be in the least disturbed by the question, or any inference which might naturally
be drawn from it.

"Well, I can make you believe I have a right to know, if you are willing to believe; for I
can swear the canoe is my own, and prove it, too, by some of these gentlemen," returned the
trapper, with warmth.

"Maybe,--we see soon," responded the other, an intelligent, good-looking, middle-aged Indian,
now slipping ashore and firmly confronting the company.

"Now tell us where you got it, sir," again sharply demanded the trapper. "I have offered to
swear to my ownership, and prove it; so tell how you came by it, unless you would have us believe
you stole it."

"Stole it?" reproachfully said the Indian. "Ask that man," he added, pointing to Carvil, whom
he appeared to have previously recognized,--"ask him, if me do thing like that?"

"Moose-killer, is this you?" exclaimed Carvil, who had been eying the stranger Indian with
a hesitating air. "I thought, from the first, I knew you, but couldn't quite decide. Moose-killer,
I am glad you have come. We are just at this time trying to search out a dark affair, which
we fear has happened, and with which this boat you came in may possibly be connected. We should
be glad to make a few inquiries of you, when you are ready to hear them. There need," he added,
turning to the trapper and the others, "there need be no fear but this man will tell a true
story; I have met him on the Great Megantic, where he goes by the name I have called him, on
account of his well-known expertness in moose-killing."

The Indian started at the significant allusion which had been made to the subject that was
then engaging the attention of those present, and its possible connection with his canoe; and,
with unusual promptness for one of his demure and slow-speaking race, announced himself ready
to tell his story.

"Moose-killer is about to speak," said Carvil, looking round on the eagerly expectant company.
"We will all listen. What he will say will be true."

"Hear, in my country," thereupon began Moose-killer, in the abbreviated, broken, and sententious
language peculiar to the Red Man,--"hear, in my country, beaver bring more this side the mountains;
so come over, and been to Bethel-town to sell 'em. Come over mountains, down piece, the river
you call Magalloway,--then strike off down to big lake, Megantic. Then follow shore long way;
but stop sudden,--start back! See much blood on the leaves,--trail all along down to the water.
Then go back, look again,--find where man fall, bleed much,--die,--lay there till dead quite.
Man, because see where hands catch hold of moss, leaves,--feet kick in ground. All dead, because
feet limber and no catch in brush dragging to shore,--find where canoe hitch to shore,--dead
man put in, rowed away, sunk in lake, likely. Look all over ground again, much time,--then
come on long way, and find that canoe, hid in bushes,--take it, go sell beaver,--then come
here quick to tell story, see who missing."

We will not undertake to describe the intense excitement which this brief but pregnant story
of the Indian produced on the company, who; though hoping to gather something from him that
might be of use in the inquiry on hand, were yet little expecting a development so startling
as this. They--especially those but little acquainted with the Indian character--could, at
first, hardly believe that a story of such horrors, if true, could be told so quietly, and
with so little apparent feeling, as the narrator had exhibited during his recital; and they
immediately subjected him to a long and close cross-examination. Nothing, however, was elicited
to weaken his story, but some things to confirm it. Among these was a faint stain of blood,
which Moose-killer pointed out to the company, in the bow of the canoe, and which was evidently
but lately made; while the size and height of the man, supposed to be murdered, which the Indian
judged of by a similar curious process with that by which he reached his other conclusions,
were seen to correspond with the dimensions of the elder Elwood; who was believed to be the
man thus indicated, though it left the fate of Claud still shrouded in mystery.

"Poor Mark Elwood!" exclaimed the hunter, with a sigh, as they closed their examination of
the Indian. "He is dead; whatever may have become of his son, for whom there is still some
hope, he, at least, is dead! murdered in cold blood! and who need doubt the identity of the
accursed author of the deed?"

"This is, certainly, something like tangible evidence," responded Carvil, whose former studies
enabled him to speak more understandingly, in the matter of legal evidence, than his companions.
"And, though it is still only circumstantial, yet, when taken in connection with Gaut's false
story, and all other of the attending circumstances, it stands out most remarkably significant
against the man; and, even without any additional proof, it would, I think, warrant us in arresting
him."

"In God's name, then, let it be done, before he escapes from the country!" cried the hunter,
with startling emphasis. "But we must all keep the discoveries we have made to-day, as well
as the movements we may now make, as secret as death, lest he hear of them and take the alarm."

An earnest consultation was then held, and a plan of operations soon adopted. By this it was
arranged that Moose-killer--who, when he had gathered what was known of Gaut Gurley, and obtained
a description of his person, entered into the arrangements with an unexpected alacrity--it
was arranged that Moose-killer, Carvil, Tomah, and two of the settlers, should start immediately
up the lakes, in further search for the body of Mark Elwood (whose fate was now treated as
settled), and, also, for a more general search round the two upper lakes for his son, Claud;
who, it was hoped, had by some means been separated from his father, and suffered to escape,
despite the improbability that he would remain so long absent, if nothing had befallen him.
Phillips also concluded to accompany them as far as the next lake above, to see the chief and
his daughter, to confide to them the discoveries of the day, and put them on the lookout for
further indications. The rest of the company were to return quietly and separately, as far
as could conveniently be done, to the village, and there remain till after dark; when two of
their number were to ride, as fast as horses could carry them, to Lancaster, for warrants,
a sheriff, and his posse, to be on the ground as early as possible the next morning; while
others were to proceed up the Magalloway, and lurk round in the woods within sight of the house
of Gaut Gurley, as spies on his movements.

The company then separated on their several destinations; and, during the remainder of the
afternoon, nothing occurred in the settlement which need here be mentioned, except the secret
and cautiously-made preparations for the proposed action of the night, that, though imperceptible
to the uninitiated, were yet actively going on at the village. About sunset, however, the hunter
returned from his visit to the chief's; but in a state of no little perplexity and concern,
at an event which he unexpectedly found had there occurred. This was the unaccountable absence
of Fluella, who, without apprising her father of her intentions, had secretly left home several
days before. As the hunter had depended considerably on the girl's acuteness and means of observation
at the commanding point of her residence, he was both disappointed and puzzled at her absence.
And, as he had been debating with himself, on his way across the lake, whether he had not better
call on Mrs. Elwood, and take the first step towards gradually preparing her mind for the worst,
in regard to her husband, he now resolved to do so, with the further object of getting her
version of Fluella's absence at such a juncture. Accordingly, he called at the house; and,
seeing the afflicted woman's entreatingly expectant looks, he at once entered on his painful
task by hinting his fears for the fate of her husband; when, somewhat to his surprise, she
cut him short by sadly remarking:

"I know it all."

"How?--what have you heard?" eagerly asked the hunter.

"I don't know it by what I have heard," she replied, in the same sad accents; "for I have heard
less, perhaps, than you; but I knew it would be so, from the hour he departed. And, a few days
ago, my heart received a shock. It was from the same blow that killed him. Yes, poor Mr. Elwood
is dead! I have buried him! But my son Claud--O, my son Claud!" The astonished hunter then
told her of the singular absence of Fluella; when, again to his surprise, she started up, and
joyfully exclaimed, "He lives!--though in danger, perhaps, he lives, and I shall see him again!"

Wondering whether her reason was not unsettled, the hunter departed, and hurried on to the village.

CHAPTER XIX.

  "What justice ever other judgment taught,
  But he should die who merits not to live."
    SPENSER.

About the middle of the afternoon, on the day next succeeding the eventful one which was marked
by the occurrences narrated in the last chapter, a cavalcade of about a dozen men on horseback,
followed by a single wagon, containing some fire-arms, two or three pairs of iron handcuffs,
and a few other articles of luggage, came clattering down the road from the west, towards the
tavern with which the reader has already been made familiar. The men, who had been dispatched
for the shire-town of the county, had ridden hard all night, reached the place at daylight,
drummed up the officers of justice, got them started at an early hour, and urged them on with
such speed that, within twenty hours, they had arrived at the scene of action. After the halt
of an hour at the tavern, for rest and refreshment, and a brief consultation with the settlers,
the sheriff, and his posse, now swelled by volunteers from the settlement, set forth, under
the guidance of Phillips, for the residence of the supposed criminal, calculating to reach
there about dusk,--the hour they deemed most favorable for making the arrest. After proceeding
in silence about two-thirds of the way to their destination, they halted, to make their final
preparations and arrangements for the onset; when, knowing the great strength and desperate
character of the man with whom they would have to deal, they first carefully prepared their
fire-arms, and then detailed a half-dozen of their number, most conversant with the locality,
to go forward, spread themselves around the borders of Gaut's clearing, and cautiously advance
to the house, so as to head off any attempt he might make to escape, when the main body made
their appearance. All the time spent in these precautions, however, as well as this whole jaunt
thus far up the river, was destined to be mostly lost; for, as the company were again beginning
to move forward, they were met by the scouts, dispatched the night before, hurrying back, most
of them in a disabled condition, and with the report that Gaut had escaped about an hour before.
They had lain in their coverts all day, and in the fore part of it nothing had been seen to
excite their suspicions; but, towards night, they noticed him cleaning his rifle and pistols,
as near as they could judge, and then, soon after, bringing out a pack and placing it by the
side of his rifle at the door; and scarcely had they time to concentrate before he came out,
shouldered his pack, took his arms, and proceeded towards a canoe moored on the bank of the
river. They then instantly resolved to intercept him; and, running for the spot, came up to
him just as he had laid his rifle in the boat; when he turned upon them with the suddenness
and fury of a pursued tiger; seized the foremost, who had laid his hands on the canoe, and,
with giant strength, threw him headlong into the river; hurled the second with stunning effect
on the ground; knocked down a third with his fist; leaped into his canoe, sent it swiftly across
the stream, ran up the opposite bank, and disappeared in the woods, before they had recovered
from their confusion, or thought of having recourse to their rifles to stop him.

"Slipped through our fingers and gone!" said the sheriff with an air of chagrin and disappointment.

"Yes, for this onset," said Codman, the next to volunteer remarks in the provoking nonplus
in which they now all found themselves. "Yes, but I should like mightily to know how he got
wind of our movements? If the devil didn't tell him, I don't think he done as well by his friend
as he ought."

"Perhaps," rejoined the sheriff, after the laugh of some and the approving glances of others,
which had followed the characteristic remark of the trapper, had passed away,--"perhaps he,
or some of his family, caught a glimpse of these scouts round their clearing during the day;
or perhaps he has an accomplice, or tool, whom he had engaged to watch public movements, and
bring him word."

"I have thought of some such thing, myself," remarked Phillips. "In the case of his robbing
our camp, last fall, I felt quite confident he must have had some accomplice, or some secret
agent, to take off the furs for him. If he has such an one now, I think it must be a Jesuit
priest, as I have heard that such a looking personage has, once or twice, been seen at Gaut's
house since he moved into the settlement."

"Well, if the villain has such a character as that in tow, he would be devil enough for all
common purposes," responded the sheriff. "But, however all that may be, I fear he has struck
a line for Canada, and this is the last we shall ever see of him in this country."

"Not for Canada," confidently said the hunter; "for I know enough about him to make me feel
quite sure that he will never again trust his head within reach of British authority."

"Ah!" exclaimed the sheriff, "what is it you know?"

"I think it had better not be told just yet," answered the other, decisively. "Let us first
see whether he can't be caught and hung here, for his last crying offence."

"But do you think he can yet be overtaken, and arrested?" asked the former.

"Certainly I do," returned the hunter, with earnest confidence. "He must, and shall, be taken!
God's curse is on the man; and he will never, I tell you, never be suffered to escape us."

"Well, then," resumed the sheriff, thoughtfully, "what course do you think he will take, and
where secrete himself, so that he can be found? I, on my part, stand ready to do every thing
in my power to bring the miscreant, of whose guilt I think there can now be but little doubt,
to immediate justice. Now, as you are said to be a man of observation and energy, Mr. Phillips,
let us have the benefit of your opinion and advice in the matter."

"It is my opinion," said the hunter, in response, after dropping his head a moment in study,
"it is very clearly my opinion that the fellow will now aim to reach some of the eastern cities,--over
the Umbagog, most likely, in a canoe that he keeps concealed somewhere on the western shore,
which is only a mile or two over this ridge, that rises from the other bank of the river, here
against us. He will not be likely to come back to his house, or the river, where he will still
suppose we are on the watch; nor will he start out on the lake till after dark, lest he be
seen, and his course traced; but lie concealed till that time in some of the difficult rocky
steeps that shut down to the lake."

"Your ideas of his probable aims and movements appear reasonable, Mr. Phillips. Now, what are
the steps you would advise to be taken for his apprehension?" asked the sheriff.

"Well, my plan would be something like this," replied the hunter, musingly. "I would post half
a dozen men, for the night,--to be relieved in the morning,--a half mile or so apart, along
this river, above and below here, to be walking back and forth, and occasionally firing a gun.
The others go back, and a sufficient number get on to the lake before dark to have canoes in
station every quarter of a mile along the western shore. Codman, you will be a good hand to
manage this company. As for myself, I will wade the river somewhere hereabouts, go over through
the woods to the lake-shore, be mousing round the shore a little, in search of his canoe, and,
if I find it, be out on the water by the time you get there; if not, I will be within call
of some of you, and give, for a signal, the cry of a raccoon, which I can imitate tolerably,
I believe."

"But you don't propose to go alone?" asked several, anxiously. "It might be dangerous business,
if you should happen to encounter him with no help within call."

"Yes, I think I will go alone," quietly replied the hunter. "If he can see me before I do him,
he will do better than I think he can. And, if I do get my eye on him first, he will stop and
yield, or die, as sure as my rifle is true to its old trust; for I should feel it my bounden
duty to stop him by bullet, if need be, in case he should attempt to flee, as much as I should
to shoot a painter carrying off one of my own children."

By the approval of the sheriff, and the concurrence of all, the hunter's plan of operations
was immediately adopted. And, accordingly, the designated numbers were told off to man the
river, and at once set in motion to perform the duty; while the rest retraced their way to
the village, except the hunter, who, seeking a shoal place, waded the river, and was soon out
of sight among the thickets of the opposite bank.

On the return of the company to the tavern, every boat to be found on the river, from that
place to the lake, was immediately put in requisition, for the service of the night. And by
early twilight, eight canoes, each containing two or three well-armed men, led on by the trapper,
in a single canoe, were seen emerging from the outlet into the broad lake, and slowly filing
off along its western border. Coasting in closely to the shore, so as to keep within the shadow
of the woods, they pursued their noiseless way up the lake, to a point where the low, marshy
land lying between the lower part of the Umbagog and the Magalloway rises into the gradually-swelling
ridge, which, a mile or two farther on, becomes a rocky, precipitous mountain, whose beetling
cliffs, overhanging the deep, dark waters beneath, were crowned with their primeval growth
of towering pines. Here they paused long enough to station one of their canoes, near a small
point, commanding a view across the corresponding coves on either side; and then cautiously
proceeded onward, dropping a canoe, in like manner, every five or six hundred yards, till the
extremity of the western coast was reached, the line efficiently manned, and the trapper left
to cruise alone over the cordon of boats thus stretched along the shore, to carry any needed
intelligence, and make independent observations. It was now dark, and, being a moonless night,
all within the shade of the mountains, especially, was wrapt in almost impenetrable gloom;
so that the ear, rather than the eye, must now be depended on for whatever discoveries were
to be made. Nothing as yet, to the disappointment and increasing anxiety of the company, had
been seen or heard of the hunter.

"He cannot have been killed, so soon, can he?" whispered the sheriff, in one of the last-stationed
canoes, as the trapper glided alongside, to hold communication with the officer.

"No," was the low-toned reply; "that could not have happened, if there were any fear of such
a thing, without one or more rifle-shots, which, in this calm evening, and this favorable locality
for conveying sounds to a great distance, we must have heard, even down to the tavern. No,
I will risk him. I think he must have got on to the fellow's trail, and, if near the lake,
lies in some spot where he can't move away without danger of alarming the game. We have nothing
to do but wait patiently. Phillips knows we are here in waiting, and he will report himself
as soon as he can."

They did not, however, have to wait long. In a few minutes, a small, shrill, quavering cry,
which few could have distinguished from that of a raccoon, rose from a thicket on the shore,
a short distance below.

"Ah! that is he," softly cried the trapper; "I know the thicket he is hailing from. If you
will remain just where you are, I will scull my canoe down to the spot, take him in with me,
if he has not found a boat,--or at any rate bring him here to make his report."

Like the gliding of a fish, shrinking away from sight, the light canoe, under the invisible
impulse of the dexterously handled oar of the trapper, passed noiselessly away, and disappeared
in the darkness. But, long before the expectant officer, who had been vainly listening for
some sound, either of the going or the coming of the absent canoe, had thought of its return,
it was again at his side, with the anticipated addition to its occupants.

"Here is the man, to speak for himself," said the trapper, putting out a hand to guard off
and prevent the canoes from grazing.

"Well, Mr. Phillips," said the sheriff, in the same cautious under-tone by which all their
communications had been graduated, "we are all looking to you,--what is your report?"

"In the first place, that he is here."

"Where?"

"Sixty or seventy rods to the north of us, in a secure retreat up among the rocks, about a
dozen rods from the shore."

"Are you sure of that?"

"Yes."

"How did you make the discovery?"

"I will tell you. When I came over, I struck down to the lake, nearly abreast the lower end
of the ridge, and cautiously moved along the shore, upwards, in search of the suspected boat;
without discovering it, however, till I came to the rocky pass I have alluded to, a short distance
above here; when, peering out into the approaching darkness, I caught sight of it run under
a treetop lying partly in the water. Your boats had not got on there; and thinking, if I took
the boat out on to the water, as I had proposed, he might discover the loss too soon, take
the alarm, and conclude to escape through the woods round the upper lakes, I varied my plan,
and stationed myself back a few rods, to see if he would not come down to escape by his canoe.
I had trailed him to the top of this rocky eastern slope, before I struck down to the lake,
and knew he must be somewhere near; so I cocked my rifle, for instant use, and stood ready
for his approach. And in a short time I caught the sound of his movements, sliding cautiously
down the rocky steeps from the spot above, where I suspected he had housed himself. But, before
he reached the bottom of the short ravine he must come down, or could be seen where I stood,
a dry stick unluckily broke under my foot, and the sound, as I perceived at once, brought him
to a stand. And, though he did not know, and don't know yet, whether the sound was caused by
the step of man or beast, yet he soon seemed to think it safest to retreat; and my ear could
distinctly trace his movements, as he clambered and pulled himself along back up the ledges
to his retreat. I then went down to the shore; and perceiving, from the slight agitation of
the water and the faint sound of its gurgling under oars, that you had got on to the ground,
I stole down the shore a piece, and gave the signal, as you heard."

"Are you familiar with the place where you think he lies concealed?"

"Yes, nearly as much so as with my own door-yard."

"What sort of a place is it, and how many ways are there to reach it or to escape from it?"

"It is the most curious place in all these parts, and there is but one way, I ever could find,
to get to it; and that is, by climbing up the ledgy shelf of the face of the hill, through
a sort of ravine that opens from it down to the lake, where there is scarce room, enough, on
either side, to pass along the shore between the perpendicular cliffs and the water. It is
an old bear's den, in fact, passing horizontally into the rocks twelve or fifteen feet, of
varying breadth, and, after you get in, from three to six feet in height. I have taken at least
a half-dozen fine bears from it, in my day, and supposed I was the only one knowing of it;
but Gaut must have discovered it before this; for I at once found by his trail that he steered
directly for the spot, on leaving the Magalloway."

"He did?" interposed the trapper; "he find it, when he has been here in the settlement less
than a year, and knows little about the woods; and I, who have been here a dozen years, knew
nothing about it? He never found it without help, and that, too, from the same character that
let him know we were coming to his house, to-day. I tell you, the Old Boy is in that man!"

"Then we will hang him and the Old Boy with one rope," resumed the hunter, "for we are now
sure of him."

"I hope so," said the sheriff; "but can he be taken to-night?"

"He might, possibly, if we were willing to run risks enough," replied the hunter, doubtfully.
"But I should hardly think it advisable to make the attempt. He could not be drawn from the
cave, if we made the onset; while, if we entered it, he could easily kill several of us before
he could be secured."

"What shall be done, then?"

"I have been studying on that, and the best thing I can think of, is, to post men enough to
guard him securely through the night; and then have on force enough in the morning to unburrow
him, by some means or other, which we will contrive when the time comes."

"But will he not come down, to escape in his boat, to-night?"

"I rather expect not. After hearing the noise I made, and, then coupling it with my signal,
which he will then be suspicious of, as well as of the sounds that most likely have reached
or will reach his ears from some of our boats; after all this, he will, probably, be afraid
of falling into a trap, and would prefer taking his chances of escape by daylight. But, if
he should come down, I will arrange things so that we will have him, to a dead certainty."

The suggestions of the hunter were again adopted; and he was again requested to take the lead
in putting the proposed plan into execution.

Accordingly, after directing the trapper to concentrate those stationed in their canoes above
with those in one or two below, he entered the boat with the sheriff and his associate; and,
taking an oar, slowly rowed along towards the place he had designated as the retreat of the
desperate outlaw, on whose seizure they were so resolutely determined.

After reaching the spot, and waiting till the expected boat-crews arrived, the hunter quietly
landed, and stationed two of the men in the narrow pass north of the gorge, with orders to
keep a sharp lookout through the night, hail whoever might approach, and shoot him down before
suffering him to escape. He next led two more up round the nearest approaches of the cave,
and posted one on each side, a little above it, to prevent all possibility of escape over the
rocks and ledges in that direction; and then, returning down to the shore, selected the trapper
to occupy with him the southern pass to the gorge, thus reserving for himself, and the man
on whom he believed he could best rely in an emergency, the post where an encounter would be
most likely to occur. After completing these arrangements, and landing a pair of handcuffs
from the sheriff's boat, he dismissed the officer to collect all the rest of the company, not
thus retained, and return to the village for the night, and for a fresh rally the next morning.

It was now ten o'clock at night; and from that time, for the next six hours, the stillness
and darkness of death brooded over the slumbering waters of the lake. The mute men on guard,--to
whom the slowly-passing hours seemed doubly long and gloomy, from the oppressive sense of the
duty of silence,--stood immovably at their posts, alternately employing themselves in guessing
at the hour of the night, and intently listening to catch some sound which should indicate
the presence of the dreaded object of their watch. But, through the whole night, no such sound
or indication reached their strained senses; and most of them, at length, were brought to the
belief that either he had never been there, or that he had, by some unknown means, effected
his escape. The hunter, however, never for a moment permitted his faith to waver. He not only
felt confident that Gaut was still in his dark cage in the rocks, but that, the next day, safe
means would be found to uncage him, and deliver him over to hands of justice, to undergo the
penalties of his crimes. And, as soon as the anxiously-awaited daylight began to make its appearance
in the east, he began gradually to work his noiseless way into the mouth of the gorge, and
then up over the steeps and ragged ledges, till he had gained a stand under cover of a tuft
of clinging evergreens, where he could obtain an unobstructed view of the mouth of the cavern,
some six rods above. Here, low crouched behind his bushy screen, with rifle cocked and levelled
at the entrance, he lay, silently awaiting the approach of daylight, expecting that Gaut would
then, at least, be peering out to ascertain the state of affairs on the shore below. And the
event soon showed the correctness of his reasoning. As the brightening flushes of morning fell
on the water, and began to throw the reflected light on the face of the mountain, so as to
bring its darker recesses to view, the hunter's practised ear soon detected a movement within
the cave; and presently the head, and then the shoulders, of the wary outlaw rose gradually
in sight against the rocks, immediately over the low entrance.

"Yield yourself a prisoner, or die!" suddenly broke from the lips of the concealed hunter.

Gaut cast a startled glance around him, and then instantly threw himself to the ground, but
barely in time to escape the bullet of the exploding rifle below, which struck the rock in
the exact spot that a half-second before was darkened by the shade of his head and shoulders.

"Went through the hair on top of his head, I think, but missed his skull by something like
an inch, probably," said the hunter, quickly gliding down a few feet over the edge of the shelf,
where he lay so as to put a rock between him and the mouth of the cave. "But, on the whole,
I am glad of it; for I had rather see him go by the hand of the hangman than my own."

The hunter then quietly reloaded his rifle, and went down among his excited companions; who,
the ban of silence being now removed by his example, came forward to talk over this unexpected
and startling incident of the morning, which had served the double purpose of demonstrating
to the former that Gaut would never surrender himself a prisoner, and to the latter, the doubted
fact that the object of their search was there, as represented to them the evening before.
With the whole of them, indeed, the affair had now assumed a new aspect. Phillips and Codman
put their heads together, and began to start and discuss various expedients for dislodging
the intrenched fugitive; while the others, in their excitement and agitation, walked hurriedly
about in their confined positions speaking or thinking of the desperate and dangerous struggle
now likely soon to ensue in the attempted capture, and anxiously awaiting the arrival of the
sheriff and the additional force, which, it was understood, he would rally and bring on with him.

"They are coming!" at length cried one of the men from the cliff above; "they are coming in
troops, and in all directions."

The men on shore now eagerly ran down to the farthest projecting rocks, or on fallen trees
extending into the water, to obtain unobstructed views of the company thus announced to be
approaching in the distance; when, instead of the few they had expected, they beheld a whole
fleet of canoes emerging from the distant outlet below, and rowing with all speed towards them;
while, at the same time, another company of boats was seen approaching from the settlement
around the upper end of the lake.

It appeared that, when the sheriff with his attendants reached the village the evening before,
and announced the exciting tidings that the desperate man, whom all were so intent on hunting
down, had been driven to a stronghold among the rocks of the mountain up the lake, where it
might require a large force to take him, men started off in all directions, and rode all night
with the news; which, flying like wind over this and the adjoining settlements, threw the whole
country, for thirty or forty miles around, into commotion, and put scores of bold men immediately
on the march for the scene of action. And the upshot was that, by sunrise the next morning,
more than fifty men, hurrying in from all quarters, had assembled at the village, and having
appropriated all the boats on the rivers, for many miles above and below, had joined the company
of the sheriff, and under his lead were now on their way to the great point of attraction;
together with many others entering the lake from other quarters.

In a short time the long retinue of canoes came clustering to the shore; when the motley company,
preceded by the sheriff and his immediate attendants, all landed, and, crowding around the
hunter and his associates, listened, with many a half-suppressed exclamation, indicative of
the deep excitement that agitated the mass, to the recital of the discoveries and incidents
of the morning.

"I cannot believe," said the sheriff who had been listening with keen interest to the hunter's
account of his bold but fruitless attempt to compel the submission of the desperado, "I cannot
believe, after all, that the fellow will be so foolhardy as to persist in his refusal to surrender,
when he knows there is now no longer any chance for him to escape. I will try him faithfully
before resorting to extreme measures."

"That may be well enough, perhaps," remarked the hunter, demurely, feeling a little rebuked
for his own hastiness in firing on the man, by some of the expressions of the officer; "yes,
that will be well enough. But, if you succeed in drawing him out to be taken by means of words
alone, I will try the experiment on the very next wolf or painter I drive into his den."

"Nevertheless, it shall be tried," returned the officer.

And accordingly, having called to his side a small band of well-armed assistants, he proceeded
with them up the gorge, till he had gained the shelf which afforded the hunter a covert in
the previous assault; when he stepped fearlessly out in full view of the mouth of the cavern,
and, with a loud voice, calling the name of Gaut Gurley, "commanded him, in the name and by
the authority of the State of New Hampshire, to come out and surrender himself a prisoner,
to answer, in court, to the charges set forth in a warrant then ready to be produced."

The officer now paused; and all listened; but no sound came from the cave. The summons was
then repeated, in a still louder and more determined tone of voice. And this time a sound,
resembling the growl of a chafed tiger, was heard within, belching out a volley of muttered
curses, and ending with the distinguishable words of defiance:

"If you want me, come and take me; and we will see who dies first."

"Your blood be on your own head, then, obstinate wretch!" exclaimed the excited officer. "Men,
prepare to throw a volley of bullets into that cavern. Ready--aim--fire!"

The single report of a half-dozen exploding muskets instantly followed the word, ringing out
and reverberating along the mountain like the shock of a field-piece; while, with the dying
sound, a hoarse shout of derisive laughter from the cave greeted the ears of the awe-struck
and shuddering company around.

"There is no use in that," said the hunter, who had followed and posted himself a little in
the rear of the besieging party, under the apprehension that the besieged might make a rush
out of his retreat, in the smoke and confusion consequent on the firing,--"there is no use
in any thing of that kind. The entrance, after the first four or five feet, suddenly expands
into quite a large space, into one of the corners of which he could easily step, as he doubtless
did just now, and be safe against a regiment of rifles from without."

"Then we will smoke him out!" fiercely exclaimed the sheriff, recovering from his astonishment
at finding the culprit had not been annihilated, and beginning to be enraged at seeing himself
and his authority thus alike despised; "we will smoke him out, like a burrowed wild beast,
and soon convince the scoffing villain that we are not to be foiled in this manner. Hillo,
there, below! gather and bring up here at least a cartload of dry and green boughs."

With eager alacrity the throng below sprang to do the bidding of the officer; and, in a short
time, they came clambering up the steeps, with their shouldered loads of mingled material,
to the post occupied by the advanced party; who took, and, keeping as much as possible out
of the range of the entrance, carried them up, and threw them over the next shelf on to the
little level space lying around the mouth of the cavern. This process was briskly continued,
till a pile as large as a haycock was raised against the upright ledge through which the cave
opened by a low narrow mouth at the bottom. A fire was then struck, a pine knot kindled, and
held ready for the intended application; when the sheriff, proclaiming to the desperate object
of these fearful preparations what was in store for him, commanded him once more, and for the
last time, to surrender. But, receiving no reply, he then, ordering the men to stand ready
with poles to scatter the material the moment the victim should cry for mercy, seized the flaming
brand and hurled it into the most combustible part of the pile before him.

Within the space of a minute the appearance of the quickly-catching blaze, now seen leaping
in a thousand dimly-sparkling tongues of flame, from layer to layer and from, side to side,
through the crevices of the loosely-packed mass, gave proof that the whole pile was becoming
thoroughly ignited. And the next moment the cave, and the whole visible range of rocks above,
were lost to sight in the dense cloud of smoke that deeply wrapt and rolled over them. Expecting
every instant to hear the agonized cries of the victim, now seemingly enfolded in the very
embrace of the terrible element, calling aloud for mercy and offering submission, the whole
company, crowding the gorge below, or peering over from the surrounding cliffs, climbed for
the purpose, stood for some time mute and appalled at the spectacle, and the thought of the
fearful issue it involved. No sound or sight, however, except the crackling of the consuming
fagots and the flaring sheet of the ascending flames, greeted their expectant senses.

"Pretty much as I have long thought it would turn out, in the end," said the trapper, the first
to break the silence, as the fire was seen to be slacking away, without any thing yet being
heard from the dreaded inmate of the cave. "His master is taking him off in a winding-sheet
of smoke and flame. I shouldn't be surprised at a clap of thunder or an earthquake to wind
up with."

"At any rate," observed another of the crowd, "he must be suffocated by this time."

"Yes," responded a third, "dead, dead as a door-nail; so, there is an end of the incarnate
Beelzebub that we have known by the name of Gaut Gurley."

"I am not so clear about that," now interposed the hunter, who had stood intently watching
the varying aspects of the fire and smoke about the cave. "I thought, myself, that this operation
must put him on begging terms, if any thing would; and the question is, whether it wouldn't
now, before he found himself in any danger of smothering. I don't understand it; but stay,--what
is that rising from the top of the rocks, some distance back from the front of the den? Mr.
Sheriff, do you see it?"

"See what, sir?"

"Why, that slender column of smoke rising gently out of the top of the rocks, directly over
the cave, and growing more visible every moment, as the smoke from the fire down here in front
becomes light and thin in the clear blaze."

"I do see what appears, here, to be something of the kind not proceeding directly from the
fire;--yes, plainly, now. What does it mean, Mr. Phillips?"

"It means that the rascal has a chimney to his house, or what, for his safety, is the same.
The rocks forming the top of the cavern are piled up so loosely that the smoke rises through
them almost as easy and natural as from a chimney. He had nothing to do but to throw himself
on the bottom, to be out of its way, and breathe as good air as the best of us."

"By Heavens, Phillips, I believe you are right! And that is not all there is to it, either:
if our smoking-out experiment has failed, it has shown a better one. The same looseness of
the rocks that permitted the escape of the smoke so freely, will permit, also, their being
removed or torn away. We will now uncage him by digging down into his den. Ho there! my merry
men below, go to cutting heavy pry-poles, and look up your crow-bars, picks, sledge-hammers,
and shovels. There is work for you all."

As soon as the unexpected discoveries which had led to these new orders, and consequent change
of the whole plan of attack, were understood and fully comprehended by all, the solemn and
revolting character of the scene was instantly converted into one of bustle and animation.
As the plan thus indicated by the sheriff required the scene, of operations to be transferred
to the top of the rocks above the cave, to which there was no means of access from the gorge
in front, he, leaving a strong guard in the pass now occupied, took the hunter and came down
to the shore; when the latter, followed by the officer and a score of resolute, strong-armed
men with their various implements, led the devious way back through the woods, and up round
the ledgy and precipitous face of the mountain, till they reached a point a little above the
level of the cave. Here they paused, and sent the hunter out along a lateral shelf of the declivity,
to search for the most accessible path to their destination. While the company were pausing
here for this purpose, their attention was suddenly arrested by the heralding shouts of another
company of men, evidently approaching from the other side of the mountain. And, soon after,
a band of a dozen well-armed, hardy-looking fellows, headed by a tall, powerfully-framed man,
made their appearance, pushing their way down the brush-tangled steeps from above.

"Turner!" exclaimed the sheriff, addressing the leader of the approaching band, who was at
once recognized to be an ex-sheriff of the county, and one of the most daring and successful
felon-hunters ever known in northern New-Hampshire; "General Turner, of all men you are the
one I should have most wished to see, just at this time. We have a tough case on hand; but
how did you get here?"

"The only way left for us. When we reached the tavern down here on the river, not a boat was
to be had; and so we steered up the Magalloway, and came over by land, as you see. I had heard
of this desperate character, and your dealings with him, before the present outrage, and have
now come to help you put him through. Now tell us the state of the siege,--some idea of which
we got from a man we met, a mile back on our way."

The sheriff then related all that had transpired, and named the new plan of operations, of
which they were then proceeding to test the feasibility.

"We will have him!" said Turner, with a determined look. "If we can't tear away the rocks with
bars and sledges, we will send off for a barrel of gunpowder to blow them open; and if that
fails, I will go into the cave, myself, and if I don't snake him out before I've done with
him, he must be a harder customer than it has ever yet been my lot to encounter."

By this time the hunter had returned, and now pointed out the best way to the place of which
they were in quest; when the sheriff, ex-sheriff, and their respective followers, preceded
by their guide, commenced forcing their passage along the craggy cliffs; and, within ten minutes,
they found themselves standing on the off-set forming the rocky roofing of the cavern. The
appearance of the place was much more favorable for the proposed attempt at excavation than
any of them had anticipated. From the front face of the rock, which was pierced by the mouth
of the cave at the bottom, and which presented a perpendicular of about fifteen feet, the topmost
stones rapidly fell off to a depression over the centre of the cave, which, it was at once
seen, must greatly reduce the depth of rock to be removed or broken up, before reaching the
interior. And, in addition to this encouraging discovery, the rocks in and around this depression,
through which the smoke was yet visibly oozing, appeared to be detached from the main ledge,
and, though heavy, such as might be removed by appliances at command. Still, there was a formidable
mass to be disrupted and removed before an entrance could be effected in that direction. But
the men, impatient of inaction, and eager to be doing something to forward the common object,--like
all bodies of excited people anxious to cooperate, but unable to decide on a course of action,--scarcely
waited to be told what was wanted, before they all sprang to the work with that resistless
union of faith and exertions which requires no intervention of miracles to remove mountains.
The moss, earth, decayed wood, and all else of the loose covering of rocks, quickly disappeared
under their busy hands or rapidly-plied implements. The smaller stones and broken fragments,
as soon as loosened or beat off by the bars and sledges, were seized and hurled in showers
over the surrounding ledges; the larger ones, when started from their beds by the long heavy
prys, were grappled with the united strength of all that could get to them, rolled up, pitched
over the precipice in front, and sent bounding and crashing down the gorge below. And the whole
forest resounded with the din of their heavy blows and the mingling sounds of their varied labors.

While all who could find room to work on the excavation were thus briskly pushing forward their
operations, a smaller party were engaged in beating down the rocky battlement in front; and
so vigorously and successfully were the efforts of these also directed, that, in a short time,
the top was so lowered, and the seamy rocks so split down, that, with the mass of stones thrown
over, a path of easy descent was formed from the top, down to the shelf below, on one side
of the mouth of the cave; which was now securely blocked up, and closely invested by the party
previously stationed in near vicinity to guard it.

Thus bravely, and with no token of faltering at the obstacles which they frequently encountered,
and which sometimes required their greatest exertions to overcome, did these strong-armed and
determined men push on their herculean labors, for the space of nearly two hours; when suddenly
a shout of exultation rose from those at work lowest down in the excavation, and the next moment
the voice of the ex-sheriff was heard exclaiming to those around him:

"Courage, men! the game is nearly unkenneled. I have driven my bar through, and the hole is
so large that the bar has slipped from my hands and gone to the bottom!"

The excitement now became intense; and all crowded round the rim of the excavation, and, with
uneasy looks and hushed voices, eagerly peered down into the dimly-visible perforation at the
bottom; while those already within the excavated basin began, with beating hearts, carefully
loosening and pulling out the shivered and detached stones, lying around the small aperture
just effected, and continued the process until all the outer edges of the broad, thin rock,
which the crow-bar had perforated, and which appeared to form the lower or interior layer of
the roofing of the cavern, were fully laid bare, and brought within the reach of the outstretched
arms of those bending down to grasp them. A dozen brawny hands were then seen securing their
gripe on one side of the rock; when, at the word of the sheriff, a sudden pull was made with
a force that raised the whole mass nearly a foot from its bed.

"It comes bravely!" said the sheriff. "Now fix yourselves for another pull; while two or three
of you above there come forward with your rifles, and stand with them levelled at the hole,
as we open it, lest the desperate dog make a rush before we are prepared. Now altogether,--there,
now!"

The effort was made, and the sheeted rock was brought to a perpendicular; when it was grappled
by the men with might and main, lifted clear from its bed, and thrust aside, letting the sunlight
down upon the bottom of the cave through a chasm nearly large enough to permit two men to jump
in abreast. There was now a dead pause; and all eyes were turned on the chasm in silent and
trembling expectation. But nothing appearing, the hunter and ex-sheriff crept down prostrate
to the brink of the chasm, and worked their heads cautiously below, to get a fuller view of
the interior. After looking, with slightly varied positions, about a minute, they both rose
and came up on the bank; when the ex-sheriff, turning to the hunter, softly said:

"He is there. I caught sight of his legs standing in a corner near the mouth of the cave. Did
you get a view?"

"Yes, a better one than that; I saw his legs, and as much of his body as I could without bringing
my own head within the line of his eyes. He stands there on the watch, with cocked rifle pointing
to this opening, while he has a dirk within his left hand grasping the rifle, and I think a
pistol within his other hand, held in a similar manner. I can read his plan."

"What is it, as you read it?"

"To take the first that enters with his rifle, pistol the second, make a rush through the rest,
and stab as he goes."

"About the truth, probably. But what is to be done? Shall you and I leap down, make a spring
upon him, and stand our chance?"

"Why,--yes," replied the hunter, with a little hesitation; "yes, if we can't do better than
throw away one good life, at least, for a bad one. But if we could contrive to divert his attention
suddenly to the mouth of the cave--"

"You are right! Stay here a moment, and I will put matters in train to carry out your suggestion,"
eagerly interrupted Turner, taking the sheriff confidentially aside.

In a few minutes the determined ex-sheriff followed by four or five stout, resolute men, whose
special assistance he had bespoken for the occasion, returned to the side of the hunter, and said:

"Get down there in your old position, where you can watch his movements. They have gone down
to unblock the mouth of the cave outside, and make a feint of entering. If they succeed in
drawing his fire, I will take that as a signal,--if not, then you give me the word, at the
right moment, when his head, and with it naturally his rifle, is turned to the supposed new
point of attack, and I will leap down and make a spring to get within the line of the muzzle
before he can fire; and, the instant I disappear, you and these men follow, and be close on
my heels for the grapple."

The hunter then edged down to his former place of observation, where he lay, while Turner sat
crouching on the brink ready for the leap, narrowly watching the movements of the dreaded foe
within, who was seen to be still standing motionless in the same position as before. Presently
the movements of those outside the old entrance of the cavern, as they began cautiously to
remove the blockading stones, became clearly audible, and soon a few straggling rays of light
began to gleam into the interior from that direction. On perceiving these indications, the
wary desperado began, for the first time, to exhibit signs of uneasiness. Slightly changing
his position, he glanced rapidly from the already half-cleared entrance in front to the chasm
just opened through the top in the rear. But neither seeing or hearing any thing that led him
to expect any assault, except from the front, and evidently supposing it was now the intention
of his assailants to drive him up through the top opening, to be seized as he came out, he
drew back a step, and, turning the muzzle of his rifle towards the mouth of the cave, stood
ready to fire upon the first who should make his appearance. This movement was not lost on
the keenly-watching, hunter, who saw that it afforded a fair chance for a successful surprise;
and he once parted his lips to give the signal for the onset. But, perceiving from the incoming
light that the mouth of the cave was cleared from its obstructions, he ventured to await the
effect of the feint now momentarily expected from that quarter. He had judged wisely. The delay
was not in vain. A rustling sound, seeming to come from some one squeezing through the entrance,
was now heard; and soon a dark object, resembling the head and shoulders of a man, making slow
and cautious advances, was fully protruded into the cavern; when, suddenly, the whole ledge
shook with the stunning report of a rifle, and the next moment, Turner, Phillips, and their
chosen backers, had all disappeared in the cloud of smoke that came pouring up through the
chasm. Quick, heavy, muffled sounds, as of fiercely-grappling tigers, instantly came from within.
And within another minute, the stentorian voice of the daring leader of the onset was heard,
shouting for the hand-cuffs and fetters.

The fierce siege was over. The desperate intentions and giant strength of the besieged, after
a brief but terrible struggle, had been thwarted and overcome by the intrepidity and equal
strength of the ex-sheriff; and he, now firmly clenched round the body, and held down, with
every limb in the vise-like grasp of his iron-fisted captors, lay disarmed, helpless, and panting
on the ground.

"There!" sternly cried the victorious leader of the hazardous assault, as he rose to his feet,
after he had seen the heavy irons securely locked on the wrists and ankles of the silent and
sullen prisoner,--"there! drag him out, feet foremost, into the open light of day, where he
and his dark deeds have all now got to come, to meet the vengeance of an outraged community!"

It was done, and with no gentle hand; when a long, wild shout of exultation fiercely broke
from the closely-encircling throng, thrilling the trembling forest around with the din, and
rolling away to the farthest shores of the lake, to proclaim that the first murderer of the
settlement--the black-hearted Gaut Gurley--was now a prisoner, and in the uncompromising hands
of public justice.

The animated spectacle which now ensued, of trundling, pushing, and tumbling the chafed and
growling prisoner down to the shore, amid the unrestrained demonstrations of the exulting multitude;
the noisy and bustling embarkation, on the lake; the ostentatious display of mimic banners,
formed by raising on tall poles, handkerchiefs, hats, coats, and whatever would make a show
in the distance, as the long line of canoes, with the closely guarded prisoner in the centre,
filed off in gorgeous array, through the glitter of the sun-lit lake, on their way to the great
outlet; the pause and concentration there; the rapid descent down the river to the village,
where a board of magistrates were waiting to sit on the case of the expected prisoner; and,
finally, the loudly heralding kuk-kuk-ke-o-hos of the overflowing trapper, to announce, over
a two-mile reach of the stream, the triumphant approach,--this animated and here extraordinary
spectacle, we must leave to the delineation of the reader's imagination. Our attention is more
strongly demanded in a different direction, to bring up other important incidents of our story,
before proceeding any farther with the actors who have figured in this part of the narrative,
or taking note of the examination to which they were now hurrying the prisoner.

CHAPTER XX.

  "By thine infinite of woe,
  All we know not, all we know;
  If there be what dieth not,
  Thine, affection, is its lot."

Deep in the wilderness of woods and waters encircling the mouth of a small inlet, at the extreme
northwestern end of the picturesque Maguntic, there lay encamped, at the point of a low headland,
on one of the first nights of May, the three trappers, whose expedition had been the subject
of so many gloomy speculations, and whose unexpectedly prolonged absence had caused, as we
have seen, so much anxiety in the settlement to which they belonged. They had extended their
outward journey more than double the distance contemplated by the Elwoods, at least when they
left home; the mover of the expedition, Gaut Gurley, having proposed to make the shores of
the Maguntic, and its feeding streams only, the range of their operations. But when they arrived
there, as they did, on the ice, which was still firm and solid on the lakes, Gaut pretended
to believe that the rich beaver-haunts, to which he had promised to lead them, could not be
identified, much less reached, until the ice had broken up in the streams and lake. He, therefore,
now proposed that they should first proceed over to the chief inlet of the Oquossak, stay one
night in the camp, which was left in the great snowstorm of the fall before, dig out the steel-traps
buried there, and, the next day, slide over the boats, also left there, on the glare ice,--as
all agreed could easily be done on some light and simple contrivance,--and land them on the
west shore of the Maguntic, where they could be concealed, and found ready for use when the
lake opened. He would then, he said, lead them to a place among the head-water streams of the
Magalloway, only a day's journey distant, where he once "trapped it" himself, and where, as
the rivers there broke up early, he could promise them immediate success.

All this had been done; and the party, having spent nearly three weeks among the lakelets and
interweaving streams going to make up the sources of the Magalloway and Connecticut rivers,
with occasional recourse to the nearest habitations on the upper Magalloway, for provisions,
but with very indifferent success in taking furs, had now, on the urging of young Elwood, returned
to the Maguntic,--which, after a hard day's journey, they had reached, at the point where we
have introduced them, about sunset the day but one preceding, thrown up a temporary shanty,
and encamped for the night. On rising the next morning, Gaut had proposed that Claud remain
at camp that day, to build a better shanty, and hunt in the near vicinity; while he and Mark
Elwood should explore the stream, to a pond some miles above, where his previously discovered
beaver-haunts, he said, were mostly to be found, and where, the snow and ice having wholly
disappeared, they could now operate to good advantage. With this arrangement, however, the
young man, whose secret suspicions had been aroused by one or two previous attempts made by
Gaut to separate him from his father, plausibly refused to comply; and the consequence was,
that they had all made the proposed explorations together, returned to camp without discovering
any indications of the promised beaver, and laid down for the night, with the understanding,
reluctantly agreed to by the moody and morose Gaut, that they should proceed down the lake
to their boats the next morning, and embark for an immediate return to their homes, where the
Elwoods felt conscious they must, by this time, be anxiously expected.

Such were the circumstances under which we have brought this singularly-assorted party of trappers
to the notice of the reader, as they lay sleeping in their bough-constructed tents,--Gaut and
Mark Elwood under one cover, and Claud under another, which he had fixed up for himself on
the opposite side of their fire,--on the ominous night which was destined to prelude the most
tragic and melancholy scene of our variously eventful story.

It was the hour of nature's deepest repose, and the bright midnight moon, stealing through
the gently-swaying boughs of the dark pines that rose heavenward, like pinnacles, along the
silent shores around, was throwing her broken beams fitfully down upon the faces of the unconscious
sleepers, faintly revealing the impress which the thoughts and purposes of the last waking
hours had left on the countenance of each. And these impresses were as variant as the characters
of those on whose features they rested: that lingering on the sternly-compressed lips and dark,
beetling brows of Gaut Gurley, ever sinister, was doubly so now; that on the face of Mark Elwood,
whose vacillations of thought and feeling, through life, had exempted his features from any
stamp betokening fixed peculiarity of character, was one of fatuous security; and that resting
on the intellectual and guileless face of Claud Elwood was one of simple care and inquietude.

But what is that light, shadowy form, hovering near the sylvan couch of Claud, like some unsubstantial
being of the air; now advancing, now shrinking away, and now again flitting forward to the
head of the youthful sleeper, and there pausing and preventing the light from longer revealing
his features? Yes, what is it? would ask a doubting spectator of this singular night-scene.
A passing cloud come over the moon? No, there is none in the heavens. But why the useless speculation?
for it is gone now, leaving the sleeper's face again visible, and wearing a more unquiet and
disturbed air than before. His features twitch nervously, and expressions of terror and surprise
flit over them. He dreams, and his dream is a troubled one. Let the novelist's license be invoked
to interpret it.

He was alone with his father on a boundless plain, when suddenly a dark, whirlwind tempest-cloud
fell upon the earth around them, and soon separated him from the object of his care. As he
was anxiously pressing on through the thickly-enveloping vapors, in the direction in which
the latter had disappeared, he was suddenly confronted by a monstrous, black, and fearful living
apparition, who stood before him in all the horrid paraphernalia ascribed to the prince of
darkness, apparently ready to crush him to the earth, when a bright angel form swiftly interposed.
Starting back, with the rapidly-chasing sensations of terror and surprise, he looked again,
and the fiend stood stript of his infernal guise, and suddenly transformed into the person
of Gaut Gurley, who, with a howl of dismay, quickly turned and fled in confusion. The amazed
dreamer then turned to his deliverer, who had been transformed into the beauteous Fluella,
whose image, he was conscious, was no longer a stranger among the lurking inmates of his heart.
A sweet, benignant smile was breaking over her lovely features; and, under the sudden impulse
of the grateful surprise, he eagerly stretched out his arms towards her, and, in the effort, awoke.

"Where, where is she?" he exclaimed, springing to his feet, and glaring wildly around him.
"Why!" he continued, after a pause, in which he appeared to be rallying his bewildered senses,--"why!
what is this? a dream, nothing but a dream? It must be so. But what a strange one! and what
could have caused it? Was there not some one standing over me, just now, darkening my face
like a shadow? I feel a dim consciousness of something like it. But that, probably, was part
of the same dream. Yes, yes, all a mere dream; all nothing; so, begone with you, miserable
phantoms! I will not suffer--"

But, as if not satisfied with his own reasoning, he stopped short, and, for many minutes, stood
motionless, with his head dropped in deep thought; when, arousing himself, he returned to his
rude resting-place, and laid down again, but only to toss and turn, in the restless excitement
which he obviously found himself unable to allay. After a while spent in this tantalizing unrest,
he rose and slowly made his way down to the edge of the lake, a few rods distant, where, scooping
up water with his hands, he first drank eagerly, then, bathed his fevered brow, and then, rising,
he stood some time silent on the shore,--now pensively gazing out on the darkly-bright expanse
of the moon-lit lake; and now listening to the mysterious voices of night in the wilderness,
which, in low, soft, whispering undulations of sound, came, at varied intervals, gently murmuring
along the wooded shores, to die away into silence in the remote recesses of the forest. These
phenomena of the wilds he had once or twice before noted, and tried to account for, without,
however, attaching much consequence to them. But now they became invested with a strange significance,
and seemed to him, in his present excited and apprehensive state of mind, portentous of impending
evil. While his thoughts were taking this channel, the possibility of what might be done in
his absence suddenly appeared to occur to him; and he hastened back to camp, where he slightly
replenished the fire, and, taking a recumbent position, with his loaded rifle within reach,
kept awake, and on the watch, till morning.

After daylight Claud arose, as if nothing unusual had occurred to disturb him, bustled about,
built a good fire, and began to prepare a morning meal from the fine string of trout he had
taken during yesterday's excursion. The noise of these preparations soon awoke the two sleepers;
who, complimenting him on his early rising, also arose, and soon joined him in partaking the
repast, which, by this time, he had in readiness.

As soon as they had finished their meal, which was enlivened by no other than an occasional
brief, commonplace remark, the thoughts of each of them being evidently engrossed by his own
peculiar schemes and anxieties, the trappers, by common consent, set about their preparations
to depart; and, having completed them, leisurely took their way down the western shore of the
lake towards the spot at which they had hauled up and concealed their canoe, and which, if
they followed the deep indentures of the shore in this part of the lake, must be four or five
miles distant.

For the first mile or two of their progress nothing noticeable to an indifferent observer occurred
to vary the monotony of their walk, as they tramped steadily and silently forward, in the usual,
and, indeed, almost the only practicable mode of travelling in the forest, appropriately denominated
Indian file. But young Elwood, whose feelings had been deeply stirred by the fancies of the
night, which, to say the least, had the effect to make him more keenly apprehensive and vigilant,
had noted several little circumstances, that, to him, wore a questionable appearance. Gaut,
who at first led the way, soon manoeuvred to get Mark Elwood, the next in the order of their
march, in front; and then urged him forward at a much faster pace than before, at the same
time often casting furtive glances behind him, as if to see whether Claud, who seemed inclined
to walk more slowly than the rest, would not fall behind, and soon be out of sight. And, when
the latter quickened his pace, he showed signs of vexation, which had not passed unnoticed.
All this Claud had noted, together with the singular expression which Gaut's countenance assumed,
and which filled him with an undefinable dread, and a lively suspicion that the man was on
the eve of attempting the execution of foul purposes. Consequently he resolved to follow up
closely, having no fears for himself, and believing his presence would prevent any attempt
that might be meditated against his father. This precaution, for some time, the young man was
careful to observe; but, as he was passing over a small brook that crossed his path, his eye
caught the appearance of a slight trail, a few rods up the stream, and curiosity prompted him
to turn aside to examine it. When he reached the place, he soon detected indications which
convinced him that some person had recently been there; and, forgetful of his resolution, in
the interest the circumstance excited, he commenced a closer inspection, which resulted in
discovering a fresh imprint, in the soft mud on one side of the brook, of a small moccasined
foot. This curious and unexpected discovery, uncertain as were its indications of any identity
of the person, or even of the age or sex of the person, by whom that delicate footprint was
made, at once diverted his attention, from the particular care by which it had been engrossed,
and started that other of the two trains of thought, which, for the last month, but especially
since his singular awakening the past night, had constituted the chief burden of his mind,--his
increasing apprehensions for his father's safety, and his lurking but irrepressible regard
for the chief's beautiful daughter, whose image, since his dream, had haunted him with a pertinacity
for which a resort to reason alone would fail to account.

  "If music be the food of love,"

dreams, we apprehend, whatever the immortal bard might have thought of the matter, have often
proved the more exciting stimulus of the tender passion; many of whose happiest consummations
might be traced back to an origin in some peopled scene of a dreaming fancy, whose peculiar
effect on the sympathies has frequently been felt by the sternest and most sceptical, though
never very clearly explained in any of our written systems of the philosophy of the soul and
its affections.

In the pleasing indulgence of the feelings and fancies which had been thus freshly kindled,
Claud stood, for some minutes, quite unconscious of the lapse of time, though it had been long
enough to place his companions far out of sight and hearing. From this reverie he was suddenly
aroused by the sharp report of a rifle, bursting on his ear from the woods, about a quarter
of a mile off, in the direction just taken by his companions. Starting at the sound, which
sent a boding chill through his heart, and bitterly taxing himself for his inadvertent loitering,
he sprang back to the trail he had left, and made his way along over it towards the place indicated
by the firing, with all the speed which excited nerves and agonizing anxiety could bring to
his aid. But, before reaching the spot at which he was aiming, and just as he was beginning
to slacken his pace, to look around for it, Gaut Gurley burst through the bushes, a few rods
ahead, and, running towards him with all the manifestations of a man in hasty retreat before
a pursuing foe, eagerly exclaimed:

"Run, Claud! run for your life! We have just been beset by hostile Indians, who fired on us,
and, I fear, have killed your father. I have misled them a little; but they will soon be on
our trail. Run! run!" he added, seizing the other by the arm to start him into instant flight.

"What!" exclaimed the astonished young man, hanging back, and by degrees recovering from the
surprise with which he was at first overwhelmed by the strange and startling announcement.
"What! hostile Indians?--hostile to whom, to my father, or to me, that I should run from them?
Gaut Gurley, what, O what does this mean?"

"Why, it means," said the other, keeping up all the motions and flourishes naturally used by
one urging another to flee,--"it means, as I say, our lives are in danger. Let us escape while
we can. Come, come, there's not a moment to lose!"

"I will know," said Claud, with a quick, searching glance at the face of the other,--"yes,
I will know for myself what has happened," he sternly added, suddenly breaking from the grasp
on his arm, and bounding forward to execute his purpose with a quickness and rapidity that
made pursuit useless.

"Hold!" cried Gaut, in an increasingly fierce and angry tone, "hold, instantly,--on your life,
hold! I warn you, sir, to stop, instantly to stop!"

But, heeding neither the entreaties nor the threats which, his ear told him, were strangely
mingled in the tones of the words thus thundered after him, Claud, in his agony of apprehension,
eagerly rushed on towards the forbidden scene, which could not now be thirty rods distant,
and had proceeded, perhaps, forty yards; when, just as he was straightening up, after stooping
to pass under an obstructing limb of a tree, extending across his path, he became conscious
of the sound of the sudden hitting of the limb, and partly so of the concussion of a shot,
still farther in his rear. But he neither heard nor knew more; and, the next moment, lay stretched
senseless on the ground.

When he awoke to consciousness, after, he knew not what lapse of time, he found himself in
a different place; lying, as he felt conscious, badly wounded, on a soft, elastic bed of boughs,
within a dense thicket of low evergreens, through which his opening eye caught the gleams of
widely-surrounding waters. A ministering angel, in the shape of the peerless daughter of the
wilds, who had lately so much occupied his thoughts, was wistfully bending over him, with a
countenance in which commiseration and woe had found an impersonation which no artist's pencil
could have equalled.

"Fluella!" he feebly murmured,--"how came you here, Fluella?"

She saw that the effort to speak caused him a pang, and, without replying to the question,
motioned him to silence; when, being no longer able to master her emotions, she sat down by
his side, and, covering her face with both hands, began to grieve and sob like a child. Poor
girl! who could measure the depth of her heart's anguish? She could not answer, had she deemed
it best. We must answer the question for her. But, to do so, to the full understanding of the
reader, we must again recur to the events of the past,--her troubled past, at least,--during
the three or four days preceding the time of her appearance as an actor in the sad scene before us.

She had learned from Mrs. Elwood that Claud had pledged himself to her that he would return
from his expedition within the month of April; and to Fluella, with her undoubting confidence
in his word, a failure to redeem that pledge would be but little less than certain intelligence
that some evil had befallen either him or his father, in their unknown place of sojourn in
the wilderness. Consequently her solicitude--growing out of her secretly nourished but overmastering
love for him--became, as the time approached which was to relieve or realize her fears for
the result of an expedition undertaken under such dreadful auspices, each day more deep and
absorbing. And, the last morning but one of the expiring month, she went out early on to the
rock-bound shore of the lake, on which her father's cabin was situated, and commenced her watch
from the most commanding points, for the appearance of the expected party, on their way homeward
from the upper lakes. And during that anxious day, and the still more anxious one that followed,
she kept up her vigils, with no other cessation than what her brief absences for her hastily-snatched
meals at the house required; sometimes standing, for an hour at a time, in one spot, intently
gazing out into the lake, and sometimes moving restlessly about, and hurrying from cliff to
cliff along the beetling shore, to obtain a better observation. But, no appearance or indications
of their coming rewarding her vigils during all that time, she retired from the shore, at the
approach of night, on the last day of April, sad and sick at heart from disappointment, and
painfully oppressed with apprehension for the fate of one for whose safety she felt she would
have given her own worthless life as a willing sacrifice. But, her feelings still allowing
her neither peace nor quietude, she left the house after supper; and, in the light of the nearly
full moon, that was now throwing its mellow beams over the wild landscape, unconsciously took
her way to the lake-shore, where she had already spent so many weary hours in her fruitless
vigils. Here, climbing a tall rock on the bluff shore, she resumed her watch, and long stood,
straining both eye and ear to catch sight of some moving thing, or the sound of some plashing
oar, out on the lake, that might indicate the coming, even at this late hour, of the objects
of her solicitude. But no such sight or sound came up from the sleeping waters, to greet and
gladden her aching senses. All there was as motionless and silent as the plains of the dead.

"The time is past!" she at length despairingly muttered, slowly withdrawing her gaze, and standing
as if to collect her thoughts and ponder. "Yes, passed by, now. He will not come!"

And her ideas immediately reverted to the other alternative for which she had before made up
her mind, in case the party did not return within the month; but which, having been kept in
the background of her thoughts, by her hope of their coming, now occurred to her with startling
effect. She fancied Claud the victim of outrage or misfortune,--perhaps wounded and dying,
by the same hand that might have previously struck down his father,--perhaps taken sick on
his way home alone, and now lying helpless in the woods, where none could witness his sufferings
or hear his cries for assistance. The thought sent a pang through her bosom, the more painful
because, being something like a legitimate conclusion of her previous reasoning, she could
not divest herself of it. She stood bewildered in the woes of her thick-coming fancies. The
images thus conjured up from her distracting anxieties and excited brain, all heightened by
the natural inspirations of the place and the hour, soon became to her vivid realities. And
her burning thoughts at once insensibly ran into the form and spirit of one of the many beautiful
plaints of England's gifted poetess:

  "I heard a song upon the wandering wind,
  A song of many tones, though one full soul
  Breathed through them all imploringly; and made
  All nature, as they pass'd,--all quivering leaves,
  And low responsive reeds and waters,--thrill,
  As with the consciousness of human prayer.
                            ------the tones
  Were of a suppliant. 'Leave me not' was still
  The burden of their music."

"I will not leave you!" she exclaimed, startling the silent glens and grottos around by the
wild energy of her tones, and eagerly stretching out her hands towards the imagined scene,
and the suppliant for her ministering services, "O Claud, I will come to you. My love, my life,
my more than life, I will soon be with you! Go after him?" she resumed, after a sudden pause,
to which she seemed to be brought by recalling her thoughts to their wonted channel, and being
startled at the sober import of her own words. "Go in search of him in the woods! Yes," she
added, after another long and thoughtful pause,--"yes, why not? I cannot, O, I cannot stay
here another day, with these but too prophetic words, I fear, ringing in my ears. To be in
the same wilderness with him were a pleasure, to the insupportable suspense I must suffer here.
If I discover all to be well, I need not show myself; but, if it be as I fear, O, what happiness
to be near him! Yes, it is decided; I will start in the morning."

And, hastily descending from her stand, with the firm, quick step and decisive air of one whose
purpose is fixed, she struck off directly for the house; where, after a few hasty preparations,
she retired to her bed, and, happily, after the exhausting cares of the day, was soon quieted
into sound and refreshing slumber.

In accordance with her still unaltered resolution, she rose early the next morning; and with
an indefinite intimation to her family of her intention to be absent among friends a day or
two, swung to her side a small square basket of nutritious provisions, took a thick shawl to
protect her from the damps of the night, proceeded directly to her canoe at the landing, embarked,
and struck out vigorously along the winding shore, on her way to the next upper lake. A steady
but quiet row of a couple of hours took her out of the great lake on which she had embarked,
up the principal inlet, and into the Maguntic, whose western shores, she had understood, were
to be the base of the operations of the absent party. Here she turned short to the left, and,
drawing in close to land, rowed slowly and cautiously along the western shore, following round
all the numerous indentations, and continually sending her searching glances up its wooded
shores, that no appearance of the trail of human beings might escape her observation.

After rowing two or three miles in this manner, and without noticing any thing that particularly
attracted her attention, she reached the first of the three headlands, making out from this
side a considerable distance into the lake, beyond the average line of the shore. As she was
rounding this point, her eye fell on a dark protuberance, in a dense thicket a few rods in-shore,
which appeared of a more oblong and regular form than is usual in such places. And, scanning
the appearance more closely, she soon discerned a small piece of wrought wood, resembling a
part of the blade of an oar, slightly projecting from one side of the apparent brush-heap.
Starting at the sight, she immediately ran her canoe ashore, and proceeded at once to the spot;
when, closely peering under the brush-wood, she discovered three canoes, with their oars, concealed
beneath a deep covering of boughs, surmounted by a scraggy treetop lying carelessly over them,
as if blown from some neighboring tree.

This, to her, was an important discovery; for it told her--after she had carefully examined
the place, and found that no one had been to the boats since they were concealed, which she
thought must have been done several weeks before--it told her, at once, that the trappers had
gone to some distant locality among the streams and mountains, to the west or north, from which
they had not yet returned to the lake; but doubtless would so return before proceeding homeward,
provided the Elwoods had not both been slain or disabled by their suspected companion. The
discovery, notwithstanding the light it had thrown on the first movements of the trappers,
and much as it narrowed the range of her search for them, but little relieved her harrowing
apprehensions; and she resolved to proceed up the lake with her observations, which might now
as well be confined to this side of it, and the larger streams which should here be found entering
it, and down some of which the company, if they came at all, would probably now soon come,
on their way to the canoes. And, accordingly, she again set forth on her solitary journey.
But, being conscious that the trappers might now at any time suddenly make their appearance,
she proceeded more cautiously, keeping as far as possible out of the views that might be taken
from distant points of the lake, and from time to time turning a watchful eye and ear on the
shores around and before her. Thus, slowly and timidly advancing, she at length reached and
rounded the second headland in her course, where another and still more interesting discovery
was in store for her. As she came out from the overhanging trees beneath which she had shot
along the point, she unexpectedly gained a clear view of the extreme end of the lake, with
what appeared to be the mouth of a considerable stream, and suddenly backed her oar, to pause
and reconnoitre; when she soon noticed one spot, near the supposed inlet, which wore a different
hue from the rest, and which, a closer inspection told her, must be imparted by the lingering
of undissipated smoke, from a fire kindled there as late, at least, as that morning. Her heart
beat violently at the discovery; for she felt assured that the trappers had reached the lake,
had encamped there the night before, and could not now be many miles distant. Fearing she should
be seen, if she remained longer on the water, she at once resolved to conceal her canoe in
some place near by, and proceed by land through the woods to the spot of the supposed encampment,
or near enough to ascertain how far her conjectures were true, and how far her new-lit hopes
were to be realized. All this--after many a misgiving and many an alarm, from the sudden movements
of the smaller animals of the forest, started out from their coverts by her stealthy advance--had
been by her, at length, successfully accomplished; the camp detected from a neighboring thicket;
cautiously approached, finally entered, and the joyful discovery made that three persons had
slept there the night before. Hieing back, like a frighted bird, into the screening forest,
she selected a covert in a dense thicket on an elevation about an hundred yards distant, where,
unseen by the most searching eye, she could look down into the camp; and there she lay down
and anxiously awaited the approach of night, and, with it, the expected return of the party,
who, she felt confident, could be no others than those of whom she was in search. And it was
not all a dream with Claud, when he fancied some one standing by his couch of repose. A flitting
form had, that night, indeed, for a moment hovered over him, looking down, with the sleepless
eye of love, on his broken slumbers, and trying to divine, perhaps, the very dreams which,
through some mysterious agency of the mental sympathies, her presence was inciting.

Although the maiden had now the unspeakable satisfaction of knowing that none of her fears
had thus far been realized, yet she felt keenly sensible that the danger was not over; and
she therefore determined that she would not lose sight of the objects of her vigilance and
anxiety, at least until she had seen them embarked for home on the open lake, where deeds of
darkness would be less likely to be attempted than in the screening forest. She had, therefore,
started from her uneasy slumbers, the next morning, at daybreak; watched from her covert, with
lively concern, the movements in the camp; and no sooner seen them packed up for a start, and
headed towards their boats, then she shrank noiselessly away from her concealment, which was
situated so as to give her considerably the start of them; and fled rapidly down the lake,
in a line parallel to the one along the shore which the trappers would naturally take, and
so near it that, from chosen stands, she could see them as they came along. And thus, for miles,
like the timid antelope, she hovered on their flank,--now pausing to get a glance of them through
the trees as they came in sight, and now fleeing forward again, for a new position, to repeat
the observation. Up to this time she had kept considerably in advance of the moving party;
but now, suddenly missing Claud, she sought a covert, and stood watching for him, till Mark
Elwood, followed by Gaut Gurley, came abreast of the spot she occupied; when, suddenly, the
forest shook and trembled from the report of a gun, bursting from the bushes, seemingly, almost
beneath her feet. A single wild glance revealed to her appalled senses Gaut Gurley, clenching
his smoking rifle, and, with the look of an exulting fiend, glaring out from behind a tree,
towards his prostrate, convulsed, and dying victim. On recovering from the deeply paralyzing
effect of the horrid spectacle, her first thought was for Claud; and, with the distracting
thought, her eye involuntarily sought for the murderer of his father, who had shrunk back from
his position, but whom she soon detected hastily reloading his rifle, and then starting, with
a quick step, along back the path in which he had just come,--in search, as her alarmed heart
suggested, of another victim for his infernal malice. With a sharp, smothered cry of anguish,
she bounded out from her covert, and flew back, in a line parallel with that of the retreating
murderer, till she saw him meet the alarmed young man hurrying forward to the rescue; when
she suddenly paused, and listened with breathless interest to the dialogue we have already
related as occurring between them. She heard--and her heart bounded with pride as she did so--she
heard the manly and determined language of the young man; she saw him rush by the wretch who
was trying to mislead him, to conceal his own crime. But she saw, also, the next moment, with
a dismay that transfixed her to the spot, the murderous rifle raised, and the retreating, unconscious
object of its aim stumble forward to the ground; then the monster, as if uncertain of the execution
of his bullet, rush forward, with gleaming knife, apparently to finish his work; and then disappear
in the direction of the concealed canoes, now less than a half-mile beyond. All this she had
witnessed, with an agony which no pen can describe; and then, with the last glimpse of the
retiring assassin, flown, to the side of his second victim, badly but not fatally wounded;
staunched, as she best could, the blood pouring from his wounds; hurried off for her canoe,
luckily hid near by; brought it up to the shore, within a few yards of the spot where he had
fallen; drawn him gently down to it, and got him into it, she knew not how; and then, after
obliterating the trail, entered herself, and rowed off to the thickly wooded little island,
a furlong to the northeast, but hid by an intervening point from the view of the foe, now supposed
to be on his way to the boats. Here she had contrived to draw Claud up, in the light canoe,
on the farthest shore, and, by degrees, got both him and the boat on the dry, mossy ground,
safely within a thicket wholly impervious to outward view. Still fearful of Gaut's return,
she crept to the south end of the island, which she had scarcely reached when she saw him come
round the point, land, drag down the body of Mark Elwood, take it out some distance from the
shore, and sink it, by steel-traps and stones tied to it, deep in the lake. She then, with
lively concern, saw him return and proceed towards the spot where Claud had fallen, but soon
reappear, evidently much disturbed at not finding the body, yet not seeming to suspect how
it had been disposed of, though several times coming down to the edge of the water and peering
anxiously up and down the lake; but she was soon relieved from her fears by seeing him take
to his boat, row rapidly round the point, there take in tow two other canoes,--which, it appeared,
he had brought up and left there,--and then row down the lake, in the direction of the great
outlet; under the belief, doubtless, that Claud had revived, struck down through the woods
for the upper end of the lake below, where, if he had not before sunk down and died of his
wounds, he might be waylaid and finished. Thus relieved of this pressing apprehension, she
hurried back to her charge, and carefully examined his wounds; when she found that the bullet,
whose greatest force had been broken by the obstructing limb, had struck near the top of his
head, and ploughed over the skull without breaking it; that, of the two stabs inflicted, one
had been turned by the collar-bone, making only a long, surface wound, the other had passed
through the fleshy part of the arm and terminated on a rib beneath, producing a flow of blood,
which, but for the timely and plentiful application of beaver-fur, pulled from a skin which
she saw protruding from his pack, must have soon terminated his life. With the drinking-cup
she found slung to his side, she brought water, washed the wounds, laid the ruptured parts
in place, and, with plasters of cloth cut from her handkerchief, and made adhesive by balsam
taken from a tree at hand, covered and protected them; and thus, by the application of a skill
she learned from her father, placed them in a situation where nature, with proper care, would,
of herself, complete the sanatory operation. She then resumed the process of bathing his head
and face, and, within another hour, was thrilled with joy in witnessing his return to consciousness,
in the manner we described before leaving him for this long but necessary, digression.

After giving vent to her painfully laboring emotions a while, the maiden softly arose, and,
creeping down under the overhanging boughs to the edge of the water, sat down on a stone and
bathed her throbbing brow, for some time, in the limpid wave; after which, having in a good
measure regained her usual firmness and tranquillity, she returned to the side of her wounded
friend, whom she found wrapt in the deep slumber generally produced by exhaustion from loss
of blood. After gazing a while on his face, with the sad and yearning look of a mother on a
disease-smitten child, a new thought seemed suddenly to occur to her, and she noiselessly stole
away to her former lookout, at the south end of the island, where, with a brightening eye,
she caught sight of the loathed and dreaded homicide, just entering the distant outlet. Waiting
no longer than to feel assured that he had disappeared with the real intention of descending
the stream, she returned to her still sleeping charge, slowly and carefully slid the canoe
down into the water, headed it round with her hands, gained her seat in the stern, and pushed
out into the lake, shaping her course obliquely down it towards the mouth of a small river
entering from the eastern side, at the lower end of the lake, but still nearly a mile distant
from the outlet in which the murderer had disappeared. Softly and smoothly as a gently-rocking
cradle, the light canoe, under the skillfully plied oar of the careful maiden, glided through
the waveless waters on her destined course, and, for more than an hour, steadily kept on its
noiseless way, without once appearing to disturb the repose of the slumbering invalid. But,
as the hitherto low-looking forest bordering the eastern shore began to loom up, and thus apprise
the fair rower that she was now nearing the point to which she had been directing her course,
she noticed, with concern, that the lake was beginning to be agitated, even where she then
was, from a gathering breeze; while a long, light, advancing line, extending across the lake
in the distance behind her, plainly told of the rapid approach of wind, which must soon greatly
increase the disturbance of the waters, and the consequent rocking of the canoe. Knowing how
injuriously such motion of the boat might affect the invalid, she put forth her utmost strength
in propelling the canoe forward to reach the quiet haven before her, in season to escape the
threatened roughness of the water. But her best exertions could secure only a partial immunity
from the trouble she thus sought to avoid. The wind struck her long before gaining the place;
when, in spite of all her endeavors to steady it, the canoe began to lurch and toss among the
gathering waves; while the almost immediate awakening of the disturbed invalid, his twinges
of pain and suppressed groans, told her, as they sent responsive thrills of anguish through
her bosom, how much he was suffering from the motion. To her great relief, however, she now
soon reached and shot into the still waters of the stream, and this trouble, at least, was
over. Here, after passing in out of sight of the lake, she drew up her oar, and paused to reflect
and conclude what should be her next movement; when Claud, whose head was pillowed in the bow
of the boat, and whose eye was resting tenderly on her downcast countenance, soon read her
perplexity, and again asked to be informed of all that had happened, and the object of her
present movement. She told him,--with such reservations as maidenly modesty and pride suggested,--she
told him all she had seen, and in conclusion proposed, as their enemy might ambush them, and
as it was now drawing towards night, and the lake would not be quiet enough for some hours,
at least, to permit them to proceed, that they should row up the river till they found an eligible
spot, and encamp for the night. To this Claud readily assented; and they again set forth up
the gentle stream, that, as before intimated, here came in from the southeast; and, after proceeding
some distance, the anxious eye of the maiden fell on a place on the left bank, where a temporary
shelter could easily be rigged up, under the wide-spreading and low-set limbs of a thick-topped
evergreen, which, of itself, would be ample protection against the dews of heaven. Drawing
up the canoe on land near the tree, in the same manner as at the island, she proceeded to gather
large quantities of fine hemlock boughs, and dry, elastic mosses, arrange them under the tree,
in the form of bed and pillow, and over the whole to spread Claud's blanket; thus making a
couch as safe and comfortable as ever received the limbs of a suffering invalid. Upon this,
partly by his own exertions and partly by her assistance, he was then, without much difficulty,
soon transferred from the canoe; when, with his light hatchet (she having brought all his implements
along with him in the boat), she soon erected neat, closely-woven wicker walls of boughs, from
the ground to the limbs above, on both sides, providing within one of them a space for herself.
She then brought fuel, kindled a small fire in front, and took her position at his side, to
be ready for such ministering offices as his case might seem to require. She found that he
had again fallen into a profound slumber, which she at first regarded as a favorable omen;
and, in the conscious security of the spot, in the belief that he had received none of the
injuries she had apprehended from the motion of the boat, and, above all, in the indulgence
of that overweening pride of affection which covets all pains and sacrifices for the loved
one, she felt a satisfaction which was almost happiness, in her situation. But it was not destined
to be of very long duration. She at length began to perceive a gradual reddening of his cheeks,
and then, soon after, an increasing shortness of respiration, and a general restlessness of
the system. Alarmed at these symptoms, she felt his pulse, and at once discovered that he was
in a high fever, supervening from his wounds, and caused, or much aggravated, doubtless, by
the jostling of the boat on his way hither. Starting back, as if some unexpected calamity had
suddenly fallen upon her, she stood some minutes absorbed in earnest self-consultation. What
should she do? She could not, dare not, even were it daytime, leave him to go miles away for
her father, or others, for aid or advice. No; she must stay by him. And, having seen the alleviating
effects of cold water in fevers and inflammations, and knowing that there were no other remedies
within reach, she at once decided on its application. Accordingly, with her cup of water at
her side, and a piece of soft, clean moss in her hand, she began sponging his face, neck, and
the flesh around his wounds; and repeating this process at short intervals, she continued the
tender assiduities, with only occasional snatches of repose, till the welcome morning light
broke over the forest. She then rose, and, with a miniature camp-kettle found among her patient's
effects, prepared some gruel from the pounded parched corn which she had brought with her.
This he mechanically took from her hand, when aroused for the purpose, but immediately relapsed
again into the same state of unconsciousness and stupor in which he had lain through the night.
Through the day and night that followed, but little variation was discernible in his condition,
and as little was made in his treatment, by his fair, anxious nurse. Through the next day and
night it was still the same; but towards night, on the third day after his attack, he began
to show signs of amendment, and before dark his fever had entirely subsided. Perceiving this,
the rejoiced maiden prepared him some more stimulating nourishment, in the shape of broth made
from jerked venison. Having partaken freely of this, he then, with a whispered "I am much better,
Fluella," sank back on his couch, and was soon buried in a sweet and tranquil slumber. Having
carefully adjusted his blanket around him, and added her own shawl to the covering, and being
now once more relieved of her most pressing fears for his fate, the exhausted girl laid down
on her own rude couch, and, before she was aware, fell into a slumber so deep and absorbing
that she never once awoke till the sun was peering over the eastern mountains the next morning.
Her first waking glance was directed to the couch of the invalid. It was empty. Starting to
her feet, with a countenance almost wild with concern, she hurriedly ran her eye through the
forest around her; when, with a suppressed exclamation of joyful surprise, she soon caught
sight of his form, slowly making his way back from a short walk, which he had, on awakening,
an hour before, found himself able to take, along a smooth and level path on the bank of the river.

But we have not the space, nor even the ability, to portray adequately the restrained but lively
emotions of joy and the charming embarrassment that thrilled the tumultuously-beating bosom
of the one, and the deep gratitude and silent admiration that took possession of the other,
of this singularly situated young couple, during the succeeding scenes of Claud's now rapid
convalescence. Suffice it to say, that, on the afternoon of the second day but one from this
auspicious morning, they were on their happy way down through the lakes and the connecting
river, to the chief's residence, where they safely arrived some hours before night, and where
they were greeted with demonstrations of delight which told what anxieties had been suffered
on their account. Here, for the first time, they learned that the murderer had been taken and
carried to the village for his preliminary trial; that the examination had been postponed,
to allow the prisoner time to send for his counsel; and that the hearing was to commence that
very evening, though the hunter, who had that day made a hurried journey to the chief's, to
see if Fluella had returned or Claud been heard from, had expressed great fears that the evidence
yet discovered might not be deemed sufficient to convict him of murder, and perhaps not to
imprison him for a final trial. Claud, perceiving at once the importance of Fluella's testimony,
as well as of his own, proposed that they should immediately proceed that evening down the
lakes to the place of trial. But neither the chief nor his daughter would suffer him to undertake
the journey that night. At her earnest suggestion, however, it was at length arranged that
she, accompanied by her half-brother, a lad of fifteen, should go down that evening, and that
the chief, with Claud, should follow early the next morning.

In pursuance of this arrangement, the resolute girl and her attendant, as soon as she had changed
her dress and refreshed herself with a meal, embarked on the lake, and, at the end of the next
hour, they reached the Great Rapids, leading, as before described, down into the Umbagog. Here
her brother, whose eye and ear, ever since they started, had often been turned suspiciously
to a dark, heavy cloud, which, seeming to hang over the upper portions of the Magalloway, had
been continually sending forth peals of heavy thunder, hesitated about proceeding any farther,
and warned his unheeding sister of their liability of being overtaken by the thunder-storm.
But, finding her determined to proceed, if she was compelled to do so alone, he yielded, and,
landing their canoe at the usual carrying places, they shot rapidly down the stream, and in
less than another hour came out on the broad Umbagog, just as darkness was beginning to enshroud
its waters, and cut off their view of the distant shores for which they were destined. But
for the light of day they found an ample substitute in the electric displays, which, lighting
up the lake to the blaze of noonday, were every instant leaping from, the black, angry clouds,
now evidently passing off, with one almost continued roar of reverberating thunders, but a
few miles to the north of them. A rapid row of about three miles now brought them to the foot
of the lake, where the maiden had proposed to enter the river, and row down it to the swift
water, a short distance above the village, and then proceed by land. Here, however, her course
was unexpectedly impeded by one of those paradoxical occurrences which is peculiar to the spot,
and which often happens on great and sudden rises of the Magalloway, that, though entering
the Androscoggin a mile down its course, thus becomes higher than the level of the Umbagog,
and pours its surplus waters along up its stream in the channel of the river last named, with
a strong, rushing current into the lake. And our adventurers now found that masses of tangled
trees, mill-logs, and all sorts of flood-wood, were driving so strongly and thickly up this
channel that it would be in vain for them to attempt to proceed in that direction. But the
purpose of the heroic girl to reach the village, by some means or other, was not to be thus
shaken. She directed the boat to be rowed back to the Elwood Landing, where, leaving it, she
with her attendant took the path to the cottage; and reaching this, and finding all dark within
she boldly led the way down the long road to the bridge, miles below, with no other light than
the still lingering flashes of lightning afforded to her hurrying footsteps. But it was not
till after an exhausting walk, and some time past midnight, that she reached the bridge leading
over the river to the tavern, where the trial was proceeding; and then only to encounter another
great obstacle to her progress. On coming up to the bridge, she perceived, with astonishment
and dismay, that one-half of the structure, with the exception of a single string-piece, the
only connection now remaining between the two sides of the river, had been swept away by the
sudden flood, or the revolving trees it bore on its rushing surface. She also ascertained,
from a woman still up, watching with a sick child, in a house near by, that every boat on that
side the river had been either carried off by the unexpected freshet, or taken since the bridge
went off, by persons still coming in, to get over to the exciting trial, which, it was understood,
would occupy the whole night. After pausing a moment, the still unshaken maiden borrowed and
lighted a lantern, when, without disclosing her purpose, she left the house and proceeded directly
to the end of the string-piece. She first examined it carefully, and finding it broad, level,
and fixed in its bed, she then mounted the dizzy beam, and stood for a moment glancing down
on the wild rush of roaring waters beneath. Her movements, to which the light she carried had
attracted attention, were by this time seen and comprehended by the crowd around the tavern,
on the opposite side, who now came rushing to the other end of the bridge, to deter her from
the bold attempt. But she heeded them not; and in a moment more was seen, with a quick, firm
step, gliding over the awful chasm; in another, she had reached the end, and stood in safety
on the planks beyond,--where she was greeted by the throng, who had witnessed with amazement
the perilous passage, in a shout of exultation at her escape, that rose loud and wild above
the roar of the waters around them.

CHAPTER XXI.

  "So those two voices met; so Joy and Death
  Mingled their accents; and, amidst the rush
  Of many thoughts, the listening poet cried,
  O! thou art mighty, thou art wonderful,
  Mysterious Nature! Not in thy free range
  Of woods and wilds alone, thou blendest thus
  The dirge note and the song of festival;
  But in one heart, one changeful human heart,--
  Ay, and within one hour of that strange world,--
  Thou call'st their music forth, with all its tones
  To startle and to pierce!--the dying Swan's,
  And the glad Sky-lark's,--Triumph and Despair!"

Our tale is running rapidly to a close, and we must no more loiter to gather flowers by the
wayside, but depict the events which now come thickly crowding together to make up the mingled
catastrophe.

When the sheriff and his scores of exulting assistants reached the village with their prisoner,--the
desperate villain, whom they had, with so much difficulty and danger, dislodged and seized
in his rocky den in the mountains,--the latter requested a postponement of his examination
till the afternoon of the next day, that he might have time to send for, and obtain, his lawyer.
This request was the more readily granted, as the party sent up the lakes with Moose-killer,
for more evidence, had not yet returned, and as their expected discoveries, or at least their
presence with those already made, might and would be required to fasten the crime, in law,
on the undoubted criminal. The court, therefore, was adjourned to an indefinite hour the next
afternoon; and the crowd, except the court, its officers, and those from a distance, dispersed
to assemble, the next day, with increased numbers, to witness the final disposal of one who
had now become, in the minds of all, the monster outlaw of the settlement. The prisoner was
then taken to an adjoining old and empty log-house, a straw-bed laid on the floor for him,
and a strong guard placed over him, both within and around the house without; so that, being
constantly under the eyes of vigilant, well-armed men, there should be no possibility of his
escape, either by his own exertions, or by the aid of secret accomplices. And these precautions
being faithfully observed, the night wore away without alarm, or any kind of disturbance. The
fore part of the succeeding day also passed, though people soon began to pour into the village
from all quarters, with singular quietness,--all seeming to be oppressed with that deep feeling
of hushed expectation which may often be seen to predispose men to a sort of restless silence,
on the known eve of an exciting event. And, through the whole of it, no incident or circumstance
transpired affecting the great interest of the occasion, till about noon; when the news spread
that the anxiously-awaited party from the upper lakes were approaching. As they came up to
the tavern, the now excited crowd quickly closed around them, and eagerly listened to their
report. Of Claud Elwood, whom they had unknowingly passed and repassed, on their way up and
down the lakes, while he was lying helpless in the secluded retreat to which his fair and devoted
preserver had conveyed him, they had heard nothing, seen nothing, and discovered no clues by
which his locality or fate could be traced or conjectured. But they had visited, and carefully
examined, the place pointed out by Moose-killer as the one where Mark Elwood was supposed to
have been slain; and, although they had failed to find the body on the land, or in the lake,
with the best means they could command for dragging it, and although time had measurably effaced
the traces by which the sagacious Indian had judged of the suspected deed, yet every appearance
went to confirm the strict accuracy of his previous account. And, in addition, they at last
found, slightly imbedded in the bark of a tree, in the range of the path, and a short distance
to the south of the spot, a rifle bullet, which had evidently been, before striking the tree,
smeared with a bloody substance, and also slightly flattened, as it might naturally have been,
in striking a bone, on its way through a man's body. This seemed to establish, as a fact, the
commission of a murder; but on whom committed was still left a debatable question. The movers
of the prosecution had hoped, through this mission up the lakes, to obtain evidence which would
conclusively establish the guilt of the prisoner. But, to effect this, and thus insure his
conviction, something more conclusive was still obviously wanting. And it was then that the
indefatigable hunter made, as the reader has already been apprised, his last rapid but fruitless
journey to the chief's residence, in the hope that his mysteriously absent daughter might have
returned with discoveries that would complete the chain of evidence. He having come back, however,
without accomplishing any part of his object, and the prisoner's counsel having arrived, and,
after a consultation with his client, become strangely clamorous to proceed at once to the
examination, they finally concluded to go into the hearing with the presumptive evidence in
possession, and, backing it with the showing of Gaut's previously suspicious character, for
which they were now well prepared, call themselves willing to abide the result. All this being
now settled, the court was declared open, and the counsel for the prosecution was requested
to proceed with the case.

After the attorney for the prosecution had read the papers on which it was founded, and made
a statement of what was expected to be proved in its support, the witnesses in that behalf
were called and sworn. The first testimony introduced was that of Codman and others, to show
the deep malice and implied threats of revenge which the prisoner had so clearly exhibited
towards the supposed murdered man, in the prosecution of which the latter was a principal mover,
the winter before. But this evidence, when sifted by the long and severe cross-examination
that followed, and found to consist, instead of definite words, almost wholly of menacing looks
and other silent demonstrations of rage, which are ever extremely difficult to bring out in
words with their original effect, amounted to so little that the prisoner's counsel attempted
to turn it into ridicule with considerable show of success. Testimony in relation to the canoe
of the Elwoods, recently found washed up among the rapids, which was next introduced, was found,
when tested in the same way, in despite of the opinions of the practical boatmen who were the
witnesses, to be almost equally inconclusive of the prisoner's guilt; so much so, indeed, that
his counsel seemed greatly inclined to appropriate it, as showing the probable manner in which
the Elwoods, if they were not still both alive, had come to their end.

By this time,--as the court of inquiry was not opened till nearly sunset, and as the examinations,
cross-examinations, and preliminary speeches of the opposing counsel, on disputed points of
evidence, had been drawn out to seemingly almost interminable lengths,--by this time, it was
nearly midnight; and the prosecuting party now proposed an adjournment till morning. But this
was strenuously opposed by Gaut's lawyer, who, affecting to believe that the whole affair was
a malicious prosecution growing out of the suit last winter, and got up by certain men who
had banded together to revenge their defeat on that occasion, and ruin his client, boldly demanded
that the prisoner should be discharged, or his conspiring enemies be compelled to proceed at
once with "their sham prosecution," as he put on the face to call it.

This stand, which was obviously instigated by the prisoner himself, who narrowly watched the
proceedings, and, from time to time, was seen whispering in the ear of his counsel, produced
the desired effect: the motion was overruled, and the counsel for the prosecution told to go
on with his evidence.

Moose-killer was then called on to the witnesses' stand, when, for the first time, Gaut exhibited
evident feigns of uneasiness, and whispered something in the ear of his counsel, who thereupon
rose and went into a labored argument against the admissibility of the evidence of an Indian,
who was a pagan, and knew nothing about the God whose invocation constituted the sacred effect
of the oath he had taken. But, on the questioning of the court, Moose-killer declared his full
belief in the white Christian's God and Bible, and this objection was overruled, and the witness
requested to proceed with his story.

The demure Indian, unmoved by the burning and vengeful eye of Gaut, which was kept constantly
riveted upon him, then succinctly but clearly related all the facts, of which the reader has
been apprised in the preceeding pages, in relation to the atrocious deed under investigation.
And at the conclusion of his story he produced the bullet found imbedded in the tree, called
attention to its smeared and flattened appearance, and then asked for the prisoner's rifle,
to see whether it would fit in the bore. The rifle in question was then brought into court,
the bullet applied to the muzzle, and pronounced an exact fit! A shout of exultation burst
from the crowd, and in a tone so significant of the public feeling, and of their unanimous
opinion on this point, that for a moment both the prisoner and his counsel were completely
disconcerted. But, soon rallying, the latter started to his feet, and, having summoned back
to its place his usual quantum of brass, demanded "the privilege of just looking at that rifle
they were all making such a fuss about." It was accordingly handed to him; when, after noticing
the size of the bore, which was a common one, and then glancing at some other rifles held in
the hands of different spectators, he confidently requested that the first half-dozen rifles
to be found among the crowd should be brought on to the stand. Five of the designated number
were soon gathered and brought forward; and it was found, in the comparison, that three of
them were of the same bore as that of Gaut, and that the ball in question would fit one as
well as another.

"There! what has become of your bullet evidence now?" sneeringly exclaimed the exulting attorney.
"Wondrous conclusive, a'n't it? But, as weak as the whole story is, I will make it still weaker.
It is my turn with you now, my foxy red friend," he added, settling back in his seat to commence
his cross-examination.

His vaunted cross-examination, however, resulted in giving him no advantage. The Indian could
not be made, in the whole hour the brow-beating inquisitor devoted to him, either to cross
himself or vary a single statement of his direct testimony, and he was petulantly ordered to
leave the stand.

"Not done talk yet," said Moose-killer, lingering, and glancing inquiringly to the court and
the counsel for the prosecution. "More story me tell yet."

Gaut's lawyer looked up doubtfully to the witness; but, thinking he must have told all he could
to implicate the prisoner, and that any thing now added might show discrepancies, of which
some advantage could be taken, remained silent, and, for once, interposed no objection to letting
the Indian take his own course; when the latter, on receiving an encouraging intimation to
speak from the other attorney, proceeded, in his peculiarly broken but graphic manner, to make
in substance the following extraordinary revelation:

About ten years ago (he said), there came, from what part nobody knew, a strange, questionable
personage, into the neighborhood of a few families of St. Francois Indians, encamping for the
hunting season around the head-water lakes of the Long River, as he termed the Connecticut,
and went to trapping for sable and beaver. But he soon fell into difficulties with the Indians,
who believed he robbed their traps; and with one family in particular he had a fierce and bitter
altercation. This family had a small child, that began to ramble from the wigwam out into the
woods, and that, one night, failed to come home. They suspected who had got it, and next day
followed the trail to the man's camp; when they soon found where the child had been butchered,
cut up, and used to bait his sable-traps! But the monster, becoming alarmed, had fled, and
never afterwards could be found.

With this, Moose-killer, who had evidently put his story in this shape to avoid interruption,
suddenly paused, and then, with one hand raised imploringly towards the court and the other
stretched out menacingly towards the prisoner, wildly exclaimed:

"O, that was my child! and this was the man who murdered it!"

A thrill of horror ran through the crowd as the witness came to the conclusion of his revolting
story. And so completely were all taken by surprise by the startling, and as most of them believed
truthful, revelation, and so great was the sensation produced by the appalling atrocities it
disclosed, that the proceedings of the court were for some moments brought to a dead stand.
But soon the shrill, harsh voice of Gaut's lawyer was heard rising above the buzz of the excited
crowd, and bursting in a storm of denunciation and abuse on the witness, and all those who
had a hand in bringing him forward, to thrust in, against all rule, such a story,--which, if
true, had no more to do with the prosecution now in progress than the first chapter of the
Alcoran. But it was not true. It was a monstrous fabrication. It represented as a fact what
never occurred in all Christendom. It was stamped with falsehood on the face of it; and not
only spoke for itself as such, but was a virtual self-impeachment of the witness, whose whole
testimony the court should now throw to the winds. And so, for the next half-hour, he went
on, ranting and raving, till the court, interposing, assured him that the witness' last story
would not be treated as testimony in the case; when he became pacified, and took his seat.

The counsel on the other side, who, during his opponent's explosive display of rhetorical gas
and brimstone, had been holding an earnest consultation with Phillips (now also at hand with
a disclosure which had been reserved for the present moment), then calmly rose, and said he
had a statement to make, which he stood ready to substantiate, and to which he respectfully
asked the attention of the court, as a matter that should be taken into the account in considering
the prisoner's guilt in the present case, it being one of the many offences that appeared to
have marked his career of almost unvarying crime and iniquity. He was well aware of the general
rule of evidence, which excludes matters not directly connected with the point at issue; but
there were cases in which that rule often had, and necessarily ever must be, materially varied,--as
in the crim. con. cases reported in the books, where previous like acts were admitted, to show
the probability of the commission of the one charged, and also in cases like the present, resting,
as he admitted it thus far did, on presumptive evidence. In this view, notwithstanding all
that had been said or intimated, he believed the concluding testimony of the last witness proper
to be considered in balancing the presumptions of the prisoner's guilt or innocence. And especially
relevant did he deem the statement, and the introduction of the evidence he had at hand to
substantiate it, which he had now risen to offer. But, even were it otherwise, it would soon
be seen that the step he was about to take would be particularly suitable to be taken while
the court and the officers of justice were together, and the prisoner under their control.
With these preliminary remarks, he would now proceed with the statement he had proposed.

"This man," continued the attorney (whom we will now report in the first person), "the man
who stands here charged, and, in the minds of nine out of ten of all present, I fearlessly
affirm, justly charged, with a murder, to the deliberate atrocity of which scarce a parallel
can be found in the world's black catalogue of crime,--this man, I say, is a felon-refugee
from British justice.

"Many years ago,--as some here present may know, as a matter of history,--a secret and somewhat
extended conspiracy to subvert the government of Lower Canada was seasonably discovered and
crushed at Quebec, which was its principal seat, and which, according to the plan of the conspirators,
was to be the first object of assault and seizure. This was to be effected by the contemporaneous
rising of a strong force within the city, headed by a bold adventurer, a bankrupt merchant
from Rhode Island, and of an army of raftsmen, collected from the rivers, without, led on by
a reckless and daring, half-Scotch, half-Indian Canadian, who had acquired great influence
over that restless and ruffian class of men. The former had been in the province in the year
before, and, from witnessing the popular disaffection then rampant from the enforcement of
an odious act of their Parliament to compel the building of roads, had, with the instigation
of such desperate fellows as the latter, his Canadian accomplice, conceived this plot, and
had now come on, with a small band of recruits, to carry it into execution; when, as all was
nearly ripe for the outbreak, the whole plot was discovered. The poor Yankee leader was seized,
tried for high treason, condemned to death, and strung up by the neck from the walls of Quebec.
[Footnote: See Christie's History of Lower Canada] But the more wary and fortunate Canadian
leader, though tenfold more guilty, escaped into the wilderness, this side of the British line;
lingered a year or two in this region, trapping and robbing the Indians; then took to smuggling;
engaged in the service of the man whose murder we are now investigating, followed him to the
city, nearly ruined him there, and then dogged him to this settlement to complete his destruction."

"Who do you mean?" thundered Gaut Gurley.

"Ask your own conscience," replied the attorney, fearlessly confronting the prisoner.

"'Tis false as hell!" rejoined Gaut, with a countenance convulsed with rage.

"No, you mistake,--it is as true as hell," promptly retorted the other; "or, rather, as true
as there is one for such wretches as you. Mr. Phillips," he added, turning to the hunter, who
stood a little in the background, with his rifle poised on his left arm, with an air of carelessness,
but, as a close inspection would have shown, so grasped by his right hand, held down out of
sight, as to enable him to bring it to an instant aim,--"Mr. Phillips, were you in the habit
of going to Quebec, fall and spring, to dispose of your peltries, about the time of this plotted
insurrection?"

"I was."

"Did you ever have the Canada leader I have spoken of pointed out to you, previous to the outbreak?"

"Often, on going down the Chaudiere river, often; why, I knew him by sight as well as the devil
knows his hogs!"

"Did you afterwards see and identify him in this region?"

"I did."

"Is not, then, all I have stated true; and is not the prisoner, here, the man?"

"All as true as the Gospel of St. Mark; and that is the man, the very man; under the oath of
God, I swear it!"

During this brief but terribly pointed dialogue, Gaut Gurley,--whose handcuffs, on his complaint
that they galled his wrists, had been removed after he came into court,--sat watching Phillips
with that same singularly sinister expression which we have, on one or two previous occasions,
tried to describe him as exhibiting. It was a certain indescribable, whitish, lurid light,
flashing and quivering over his countenance, that made the beholder involuntarily recoil. And,
as the last words were uttered, his hand was seen covertly stealing up under the lapel of his
coat; but it was instantly arrested and dropped, at the sharp click of the cocking of the hunter's
rifle, which was also seen stealing up to his shoulder.

"Nonsense!" half audibly said the sheriff, to something which, during the bustle and sensation
following these manifestations, the hunter had been whispering in his ear; "nonsense! I searched
him myself, and know there is nothing of the kind about him."

"I am not so sure about that," responded the hunter, edging along through the crowd, with his
eye still on the prisoner, and soon disappearing out of the door.

This little judicial interlude in the remarks of the attorney being over, he resumed:

"My statement having been thus corroborated, and, as I am most happy to find, without any of
the expected interruptions, it now only remains for me to say, that this indefatigable Mr.
Phillips, becoming perfectly convinced that the prisoner was a man of whom it was a patriotic
duty to rid the settlement, has, within the last two months, made a journey into Canada; obtained
a written official request from the governor-general, addressed to the governor of New Hampshire,
for the delivery of Gaut Gurley, at the time when, on notice, the proper officers would be
in waiting to receive him; that our governor has responded by issuing his warrant; which,"
he continued, drawing out a document, "I now, in this presence, deliver to the sheriff, to
be served, but only served, in case we fail--as I do not at all anticipate--to secure the commitment
and final conviction of the prisoner, on the flagitious offence now under investigation, and
loudly demanding expiation under our own violated laws, in preference to delivering him up
for the punishment of other and less crying felonies."

The prisoner and his counsel, on this new and unexpected development, held an earnest whispered
consultation. The latter had supposed, till almost the last moment, that his opponent was intending
only to bring in another piece of what he deemed wholly irrelevant testimony, in the shape
of another gone-by transaction; and he was preparing another storm of wrath for the judicial
outrage. But, when he found that the statement was a preliminary to a different and more alarming
movement, and especially when he saw placed in the sheriff's hands a warrant for delivering
up his client to the British, to be tried for a former felony, from the punishment of which,
he feared, from what he had just heard, there would be no escape, he was sadly nonplussed,
and knew not which way to turn himself. And it was not until Gaut, who, though thus suddenly
brought into a dilemma which he was little expecting, was yet at no loss to decide on his course,--that
of making every possible effort to escape the more immediate pending danger, and then of trusting
to chance for eluding the more remote one just brought to view,--it was not till Gaut, with
assurances of the last being but a miserable, trumped-up affair, had pushed and goaded him
up to action, that the dumbfounded attorney recovered his old confidence. He then straightened
back in his seat, and, with the air of one who has meekly borne some imposition, or breach
of privilege, till it can be borne no longer, turned gruffly to his opponent, and said:

"Well, sir, having dragged every thing into this case except what legitimately belongs to it,
I want to know if you are through, now? We, on our side, have no need of introducing testimony
to meet any thing you have yet been able to show. Why, you have not even established the first
essential fact to be settled in prosecutions for homicide. You have arraigned my client for
killing a man, and yet have shown nobody killed! No, we shall introduce no witnesses till the
body of the alleged murdered man is produced; for, till then, no court on earth--But I am not
making a speech, and will not anticipate. All I intended was, to ask, as I do again, are you
through with your evidence now?"

The attorney for the prosecution then admitted--rather prematurely, as it was soon seen--that
he thought of nothing more which he wished to introduce.

"Go on with your opening speech, then," resumed the former.

"No," said the other, "I waive my privilege of the opening and close, and will only claim the
closing speech."

"O, very well, sir," said Gaut's lawyer, throwing a surprised and suspicious look around, as
if to see whether some trap was not involved in this unexpected waiver of the usually claimed
privilege. "Very well; don't blame you; shouldn't think you could find honest materials even
for one speech."

The hard-faced attorney, who was reputed one of the best of what are sometimes termed devil's
lawyers, in all that part of the country, then consequentially gathered up his minutes of the
testimony, glanced over them, and, clearing his throat, commenced his great final speech, which
was to annihilate his opponent, and quash the whole proceedings of the prosecution. But he
had scarcely spoken ten words, before a tremendous shout, rising somewhere in the direction
of the bridge,--to which their attention had been before called, when a part of it had been
swept away during the first hours of the night,--broke and reverberated into the room, bringing
him to an instant stand. Feeling that something extraordinary had occurred, the startled court,
parties and spectators, alike paused, and eagerly listened for something further to explain
the sudden outbreak. But, for several minutes, all was still, or hushed down to the low hum
of mingling voices, and not a distinct, intelligible sound reached their expectant senses.
Soon, however, the noise of trampling feet and the rush of crowds was heard, and perceived
to be rapidly approaching the door of the court-room. And the next moment the clear, loud voice
of the now evidently excited hunter was heard exultantly ringing out the announcement:

"A witness, a new witness! A witness that saw the very deed!"

This sudden and exciting announcement of an occurrence which had been hoped for, in some shape,
on one side, and feared on the other, but, at this late hour of the night, little expected
by either, at once threw all within the crowded courtroom into bustle and commotion. Both parties
to the prosecution were consequently taken by surprise; and both, though neither of them were
yet apprised of the character of the witness, were aroused and agitated by the significant
announcement. But, of all present, none seemed so much stirred as the obdurate prisoner, who
had, thus far in the examination, scarcely once wholly lost his usual look of bold assurance,
but who now was seen casting rapid, uneasy, and evidently troubled glances towards the door;
doubtless expecting, each moment, to see the fear which had haunted him from the first--that
Claud Elwood would turn up alive, and appear in court against him--realized in the person of
the new witness. His lawyer also, appeared to be seized with similar apprehensions; and, the
next moment, he was heard loudly demanding the attention of the court. He objected, he pointedly
objected, he protested, in advance, against the admission of further testimony. He had borne
every thing during the hearing, but could not bear this. The pleas were closed, and the case
concluded against the introduction of new evidence; and that, too, by the express notice and
agreement of the counsel for the prosecution. And now to open it would be in glaring violation
of all rule, all law, and all precedent. In short, it would be an outrage too gross to be tolerated
anywhere but in a land of despotism. And, if the court would not at once decide to exclude
the threatened testimony, he must be heard at length on the subject.

But the court declining so to decide, and intimating that they were willing to hear an argument
on the point, of any reasonable length, he spread himself for the wordy onset. The sheriff--who,
in the mean time, had started for the door to make an opening in the crowd for the expected
entrance,--seeing that a long speech was in prospect, now went out, conducted the proffered
witness, in waiting near by, to another room in the house to remain there till called; and
then returned, and, in a low tone, made some communication to the court.

The pertinacious lawyer then went on with his heated protest, as it might be called far more
properly than an argument, to the length of nearly an hour. The calm, manly, and cogent reply
of his opponent occupied far less time, but obtained far more favor with the sitting magistrates;
who, after a short consultation among themselves, unanimously decided to hear the proposed
evidence, and thereupon ordered the sheriff to conduct the witness at once into court.

A breathless silence now ensued in the court-room, and every eye was involuntarily turned towards
the door. In a few minutes the sheriff closely followed, by two females, made his appearance
and cleared his way up to the stand that had been occupied by the witnesses. No names had been
announced, and both the ladies were veiled, so that their faces could not be seen in the dusky
apartment, lighted only by two dim candles, made dimmer, seemingly, by the morning twilight,
then beginning to steal through the windows, and to produce that dismal and almost sickening
hue peculiar to the equal mingling of the natural light of day with the artificial light of
lamp or taper. And it was not consequently known, except to one or two individuals, who they
were; but enough was seen, in the enlarged form and sober tread of the one, and in the rounded,
trim figure and elastic step of the other, to show the former to be a middle-aged matron, and
the latter a youthful maiden. Each was garbed in rich black silk, to which were added, in the
one case, some of the usual emblems of mourning, and in the other, a few simple, tastily contrasted,
light trimmings.

"What are these ladies' names? or rather, first, I will ask, which of them is the witness?"
said the leading magistrate.

"I am, I suppose," said the maiden, in tones as soft and tremulous as the lightly-touched chord
of some musical instrument, as she threw back her veil, and disclosed a beauty of features
and sweetness of countenance that at once raised a buzz of admiration through the room.

"Your name, young lady?"

"Fluella, sir; and this lady at my side is Mrs. Mark Elwood, who comes only as my friend."

"You understand the usages of courts, I conclude; and, if so, will now receive the oath, and
go on to tell what you know relative to the crime for which, you have doubtless heard, the
prisoner here is arraigned."

At once raising her hand, she was sworn, and proceeded directly to state that part of the transaction
she had witnessed on the lake, which the hunter, in the conversation she found means to have
with him while waiting to be taken into court, had advised her was all that would be important
as evidence in the case.

Gaut Gurley, the alarmed prisoner, who at first had appeared greatly relieved on finding that
the announced witness was not the reanimated young Elwood, as he had feared, now seemed utterly
at fault to conjecture what either of these women could know of his crime. But the moment the
maiden, whom he had seen the previous year, and regarded with jealous dislike, as the possible
rival of his daughter, revealed herself to his view, his looks grew dark and suspicious; and
when she commenced by mentioning, as she did at the outset, that she was on a boat excursion
along the western shore of the Maguntic, on the well-remembered day when he consummated his
long cherished atrocity, he seemed to comprehend the drift of what was coming, and his eyes
fastened on her with the livid glare of a tiger; while those demoniac flashes, before noted
as the usual percursor of hellish intent with him, began to burn up and play over his contracting
countenance.

But these suspicious indications had escaped the notice of all,--even of the watchful hunter,
whose looks, with those of the rest, were for the moment hanging, with intense interest, on
the speaking lips of the fair witness. And she proceeded uninterrupted, till, having described
the position in the thicket on shore, in which she was standing, as Mark Elwood, followed by
Gaut Gurley, both of whom she recognized, came along, she, nerving herself for the task, raised
her voice, and said:

"I distinctly saw Mr. Elwood fall, convulsed in death,--heard the fatal shot, and instantly
traced it to Gaut, before he had taken his smoking rifle from his shoulder,--this same man
who now--"

When, as she was uttering the last words, and turning to the prisoner, she stopped short, recoiled,
and uttered a loud shriek of terror. And, the next instant, the deafening report of a pistol
burst from the corner where the prisoner was sitting, filling the room with smoke, and bringing
every man to his feet, in the amazement and alarm that seized all at the sudden outbreak.

There was a dead pause for a moment; and then was heard the sudden rush of men, the sharp,
brief struggle, and the heavy fall of the grappled prisoner, as he was borne overpowered to
the floor.

"Thank God!" exclaimed the hunter, the first to reach the bewildered maiden, and ascertain
what had befell from this fiendish attempt to take her life simply because she was instrumental
in bringing a wretch to justice,--"thank God, she is unhurt! The bullet has only cut the dress
on her side, and passed into the wall beyond."

"Order in court!" sternly cried the head magistrate. "It is enough! Mr. Phillips, conduct these
ladies to some more suitable apartment. We wish for no more proof. The prisoner's guilt is
already piled mountain-high. We commit him to your hands, Mr. Sheriff. Within one hour, let
him be on his way to Lancaster jail, there to await his final trial and doom, for one of the
foulest murders that ever blasted the character of human kind!"

We will not attempt to describe, in detail, the lively and bustling scene, which, for the next
hour or two, now ensued in and around the tavern, that had lately been the unaccustomed theatre
of so many new and startling developments. The running to and fro of the excited and jubilant
throng of men, women, and children, who, in their anxiety to witness and know the result of
the trial, had passed the whole night in the place,--the partaking of the hastily snatched
breakfast, in the tavern, by some, or on logs or bunches of shingles in the yard, by others,
from provisions brought along with them, from home,--the hurried harnessing of horses and running
out of wagons, preparatory to the departure of those here with the usual vehicles of travel,--the
resounding blows and lumbering sounds of the score of lusty men who had volunteered to replace
and repair the bridge from the old materials luckily thrown on the bank a short distance down
the stream, so as to permit the departing teams, going in that direction, to pass safely over,--and,
lastly, the bringing out, the placing on his bed of straw in the bottom of a wagon, and the
moving off of the caged lion, with his cavalcade of guards before and behind,--the fiercely
exultant hurrahing of the execrating crowd, as he disappeared up the road to the west, together
with the crowning, extra loud and triumphant kuk-kuk-ke-o-ho! of Comical Codman, who had mounted
a tall stump for the purpose, and made the preliminary declaration that, if he was ever to
have another crow, it should be now, on seeing the Devil's unaccountable and first cousin,
to say the least, in relationship, so handsomely cornered, and, at last so securely put in
limbo,--these, all these combined to form a scene as stirring to the view, as it was replete
with moral picturesque to the mind. But we must content ourself with this meagre outline; another
and a different, quickly succeeding scene in the shifting panorama, now demands our attention.

Among the crowd who had arranged themselves in rows, to witness the departure of the court
officials and the prisoner, were the two now inseparable friends, Mrs. Elwood and Fluella;
who, on turning from the spectacle, had strolled, arm-in-arm, to a green, shaded grass-plot
at the farther end of the tavern building, and were now, with pensive but interested looks,
bending over the garden fence, and inspecting a small parterre of budding flowers, which female
taste had, even in a place so lately redeemed from the forest as this, found means to introduce.
They were lingering here, while others were departing, for the arrival of expected friends,
though evidently not conscious of their very near approach. But even then, as they stood listlessly
gazing over upon the mute objects of their interest, those friends were coming across the bridge,
in the singularly contrasted forms of an aged man, walking without any staff, and with a firm
elastic tread, and quite a youngerly one, walking with a cane, and with careful steps and a
restrained gait, betokening some lingering soreness of body or limb. On reaching the nearest
part of the tavern-yard, the young man gazed eagerly round among the still numerous crowd,
when, his eye falling on those of whom he seemed to be in search, he turned to his companion
and said:

"There they are, Chief, I will go forward and take them by surprise."

The next moment he was standing closely behind the unconscious objects of his attention; when,
with a smiling lip but silent tongue, he gently laid a hand on a shoulder of each.

"Claud!" burst from the lips of the surprised and reddening maiden, the first to turn to the
welcome intruder.

"Claud! Claud!" exclaimed the agitated matron, as she also turned, in grateful surprise, to
greet, for the first time since his return, her heart's idol. "My son! my son!" she continued,
with gathering emotion, "are you indeed restored alive to my arms, and, but for you, my now
doubly desolate home? Thank Heaven! O thank Heaven! for the happy, happy restoration!"

"That is right, dear mother!" at length responded the visibly touched young man, gently disengaging
himself from the long maternal embrace; "that is all right. But," he added, turning to the
maiden, whose sympathetic tears were coursing down her fair cheeks, "if you would thank any
earthly being for the preservation of my life, it should be this good and lovely girl at your
side."

"I know it," said the mother, after a thoughtful pause, "I know it; and, Claud, I would that
she were indeed my daughter."

There was an embarrassing pause. But the embarrassment was not perceived and felt by these
two young persons alone. Another, unknown to them, had silently witnessed the whole interview
from an open, loosely-curtained window of the chamber above; and perceived, and felt, and appreciated,
all that had transpired, in word and look, no less keenly than the young couple, whose beating
hearts, only, were measuring the moments of their silent perplexity. That other was Gaut Gurley's
lovely and luckless but strong-hearted daughter. Having instinctively read her father's guilt,
she had come to his trial with a sinking heart; shut herself up alone in this small chamber;
so arranged the screening curtains that she could sit by the open window unseen, and kept her
post through that long night of her silent woe, hearing all that was said by the crowd below,
and, through their comments, becoming apprised of all that was going on in the court-room,
in the order it transpired. She had known of Fluella's arrival,--her perilous passage over
the river,--of the report she then made to the hunter of her discoveries,--of her bringing
back the wounded Claud in safety,--of the dastardly attempt of the prisoner to take that heroic
girl's life,--of his sentence, and, finally, of his departure for prison, amidst the execrations
of a justly indignant people. She had known all this, and felt it, to the inmost core of her
rent heart, with the twofold anguish of a broken-hearted lover and a fate-smitten daughter.
She had wrestled terribly with her own heart, and she had conquered. She had determined her
destiny; and now, on witnessing the last part of the tender scene enacting under her window,
she suddenly formed the high resolve of crowning her self-immolation by a public sacrifice.

Accordingly she hastily rose from her seat, and, without thought or care of toilet, descended
rapidly to the yard, and, with hurrying step and looks indicative of settled purpose, moved
directly towards the deeply surprised actors in the little scene, of which she had thus been
made the involuntary witness.

"No ceremony!" she said, in tones of unnatural calmness, with a forbidding gesture to Claud,
who, while Fluella was instinctively shrinking to the side of the more unmoved but still evidently
disturbed Mrs. Elwood, had advanced a step for a respectful greeting. "No ceremony--it is needless;
and no fears, fair girl, and anxious mother--they are without cause. I come not to mar, but
to make, happiness. Claud Elwood, my heart once opened and turned to you, as the sunflower
to its god; and our paths of love met, and, for a while, ran on pleasantly together as one.
But, even then, something whispered me they would soon again diverge, and lead off to separate
destinies. The boded divergence, as I feared, began with the fatal family feud of last winter,
and has now resulted, as I still more feared, in plunging us, respectively, in degradation
and sorrow, and also in placing our destinies as wide as the poles asunder. Claud, Claud Elwood,--can
you love this beautiful girl at your side? You speak not. I know that you can. I relinquish,
then, whatever I may have possessed of your heart, to her, if she wills. And why should she
not? Why reject one whose life she would peril her own to save? She will not. Be you two, then,
one; and may all the earthly happiness I once dreamed of, with none of the bitter alloy it
has been my lot to experience, be henceforth yours. You will know me no more. With to-morrow's
sun, I travel to a distant cloister, where the world, with its tantalizing loves and dazzling
ambitions, will be nothing more to me forever. Farewell, Claud! farewell, gentle, heroic maiden!
farewell, afflicted, happy mother! If the prayers of Avis Gurley have virtue, their first incense
shall rise for the healing of all the heart-wounds one of her family has inflicted."

As the fair speaker ceased, and turned away from this doubtless unspeakably painful performance
of what she deemed her last worldly duty, as well as an acceptable opening act in the life
of penance to which she had resolved now to devote herself, an audible murmur of applause ran
through the throng, who, in spite of their wish not to appear intrusive, had paused at a little
distance, to listen to and witness the unexpected and singular scene. Among the voices which
had been thus more distinctly raised was that of a stranger, who, having arrived a few minutes
before, given his horse to the waiter, shook hands with the hunter and the chief, to whom he
appeared well known, had joined the crowd to see what was going on, and who had been particularly
emphatic in the open expression of his admiration. The remembered tones of his voice, though
attracting no attention from others, instantly reached the quick ears of one of the more silent
actors of the little scene we have been describing. She threw a quick, eager glance around
her; and, having soon singled out from the now scattering crowd, the person of whom her sparkling
eye seemed in search, she flew forward towards him, with the joyful cry:

"My father! my white father! I am glad, O, so glad you have come!" and she eagerly grasped
his outstretched hand, shook it, kissed him, and, being now relieved from the embarrassment
she had keenly felt in the position in which she had just been so unexpectedly placed, appeared
to be all joy and animation.

"Come, come, Fluella, don't shake my arm off, nor bother me now with questions," laughingly
said the gentleman, thus affectionately beset, as he pulled the joyous girl along towards the
spot where the wondering Mrs. Elwood and her son were standing. "You must not quite monopolize
me; here are others who may wish to see me."

"Arthur!" exclaimed Mrs. Elwood, with a look of astonishment, after once or twice parting her
lips to speak, and then pausing, as if in doubt, as the other was coming up with his face too
much averted to be fairly seen by her; "it is--it is--Arthur Elwood!"

"Yes, you are right, sister Alice," responded the hard-visaged little man thus addressed, extending
his hand. "It is the same odd stick of an old bachelor that he always was. But who is this?"
he added, with an inclination of the head towards Claud. "Your son, I suppose?"

The formal introduction to each other of the (till then) personally unacquainted uncle and
nephew; the full developing to the astonished mother and son of the fact, already inferred
from what they had just witnessed, that this, their eccentric kinsman, was no other than the
foster-father of Fluella,--that he was the owner of large tracts of the most valuable wild
lands around these lakes, the oversight of which, together with the unexpected tutelary care
of the Elwood family since their removal to the settlement, he had intrusted to the prudent
and faithful Phillips,--and, finally, the melancholy mingling of sorrows for the untimely death
of the fated brother, husband, and father of these deeply-sympathizing co-relatives, now, like
chasing lights and shadows from alternating sunshine and cloud on a landscape, followed in
rapid succession, in unfolding to the mournfully happy circle their mutual positions and bonds
of common interest.

"Evil has its antidotes," remarked Arthur Elwood, as the conversation on these subjects began
to flag and give room for other thoughts growing out of the association; "evil has its antidotes,
and sorrow its alleviating joys. And especially shall we realize this, if the suggestions of
that self-sacrificing girl, who has just addressed you so feelingly, be now followed. What
say you, Claud?"

"They will be," promptly responded the young man, at once comprehending all which the significant
question involved; "they will be, on my part, uncle Arthur, joyfully,--proudly."

"And you, Fluella?" persisted the saucy querist, turning to the blushing girl.

"He has not asked me yet," she quickly replied, with a look in which maiden pride, archness,
and unuttered happiness, were charmingly blended. "If he should, and you should command me"--

"Command? command! Now, that is a good one, Fluella," returned the laughing foster-father.
"Well, well, a woman will be a woman still, any way you can fix it. All right, however, I presume.
But, chief," he added, turning to the natural father, who stood with the hunter a little in
the background, "what has been going on here cannot have escaped your keen observation; and
you ought to have a voice in this matter. What do you say?"

"The chief," replied the other, with his usual dignity, "the chief has had one staff, one light
of his lodge; he will now have two. Wenongonet is content."

"It is settled, then," rejoined the former, whose usually passionless countenance was now beaming
with pleasure; "all right, all round. Now, sister Alice, let us all adjourn to your house,
where you and Fluella, from some of those splendid lake trout which I and Mr. Phillips, who,
as well as the chief, must be of the party, will first go out and catch for you,--you and Fluella,
I say, must cook us up a nice family dinner, over which we will discuss matters at large, and
have a good time generally."

In a few minutes more the happy group were on their way to the Elwood cottage.

The principal interest of our story is at an end; and with it, also, the story itself should
speedily terminate. A few words more, however, seem necessary, to anticipate the inquiries
which will very naturally arise in the mind of the reader, respecting what might be expected
soon to follow the eclaircissement of the few last pages; and, accordingly, as far as can be
done without marring the unity of time, we will proceed, briefly, to answer the inquiries thus
arising.

The body of the fated Mark Elwood, perforated through the breast by the bullet of his cold-blooded
murderer, having broken from the sinking weights attached to it, and risen to the surface of
the lake, was found in about a fortnight, brought home, and buried on his farm.

Not far from the same time the faithful hunter received, from the hands of a gentleman passing
through the settlement, a deed of gift of three hundred acres of valuable timber-land, adjoining
his own little patch of a lot, all duly drawn, signed, and executed by Arthur Elwood; who,
after a pleasant sojourn of a week at the Elwood cottage, apprising its inmates of what he
had in store for them, in the line of property, had departed for his home, a happier man than
he had been, since, for secret griefs, he had dissolved partnership with his brother Mark,
and left the little interior village where the pair first made their humble beginning in life.

Codman, the trapper, continued to trap it still, and, as all the settlers within a circuit
of many miles around them were often unmistakably made aware, to crow as usual on all extra
occasions.

Tomah, the college-learned Indian, immediately left, with the escort of the prisoner, and,
kept away by the force of some associations connected with the settlement as disagreeable to
him as they were conjecturable to others, was never again seen in the settlement; against which,
on leaving, he seemed to have kicked off the dust of his feet behind him.

Carvil, the cultivated amateur hunter, had also immediately departed, with the court party,
on his way to his pleasant home in the Green Mountains; not wholly to relinquish, however,
his yearly sojourns in the forests, to regain health impaired for the want of a more full supply
of his coveted, life-giving oxygen.

And, lastly, Gaut Gurley, whose infernal scheming and revolting atrocities have been so inseparably
interwoven with the main incidents of our story, broke jail, on the night preceding the day
set for his final trial, by digging through the thick stone wall of his prison, with implements
evidently furnished from without, leaving bloody traces of his difficult egress through the
hardly sufficient hole he had effected for the purpose; and, though instant search was everywhere
made for him, he was not, to the sad disappointment of the thousands intending to be in at
the hanging, anywhere to be found or heard of in the country. And the mystery of his retreat,
and the still unexplained mystery of his strange and ruinous influence over the man whom he
at last so flagitiously murdered, were not cleared up until years afterwards.

SEQUEL.

It was a terrible storm. The wind, with all the awful accompaniments of rain, hail, rattling
thunders, and fiercely glaring lightnings, had burst down upon the liquid plains of the startled
deep, in all the fury of a tropical tornado. The black heavens were in terrific commotion above;
and the smitten and resilient waters, as if to escape the impending wrath of the aroused sister
elements, were fleeing in galloping mountains athwart the surface of the boiling ocean, beneath.

Could aught human, or aught of human construction, be here, now, and survive? It would seem
an utter impossibility; and yet it was so. Amidst all this deafening din of battling elements,
that were filling the heavens with their uproar and lashing the darkened ocean into wild fury
and commotion, a staunch-built West India merchant-ship was seen, now madly plunging into the
troughs of the sea, and now quivering like a feather on the towering waves, or scudding through
the flying spray with fearful velocity before the howling blast.

On her flush deck, and lashed to the helm, with the breaking waves dashing around his feet,
and the water dripping from the close cap and tightly-buttoned pea-jacket in which he was garbed,
stood her gallant master, in the performance of a duty which he, true to his responsibility,
would intrust to no other, in such an hour as this,--that of guiding his storm-tossed bark
among the frightful billows that were threatening every instant, to engulf her. Thus swiftly
onward drove the seemingly devoted ship, strained, shivering, and groaning beneath the terrible
power of the gale, like an over-ridden steed, as she dashed, yet unharmed, through the mist
and spray and constantly-breaking white caps of the wildly-rolling deep; thus onward sped she,
for the full space of two hours, when the wind gradually lulled, and with it the deafening
uproar subsided. Presently a young, well-dressed gentleman made his appearance on deck, amidships,
and, having noted a while the now evident subsidence of the tempest, slowly and carefully,
from one grasped rope to another, made his way to the side of the captain, at the wheel.

"A frightful blow, Mr. Elwood," said the latter; "for the twenty years I have been a seaman,
I have never seen the like."

"It certainly has exceeded all my conceptions of a sea-storm," said the other. "But do you
know where we are, and where driving at this tremendous speed?"

"Yes, I think I do, both. When we were struck by the gale, which I saw was going to be a terrible
norther, and saw it, too, very luckily, at a distance that enabled me to become well prepared
for it, look at my reckoning, and make all my calculations,--when we were struck, we were three
hundred and fifty miles out of Havana, north'ard, and about forty from the American coast.
I at once put the ship before the wind, and set her course southeast, which, being perfectly
familiar with these seas, I knew would give her a safe run, and, in about sixty miles, carry
her by the southern point of the Little Bahama Bank, where, rounding this great breakwater
against northers, we should be in a comparatively smooth sea, that would admit of either laying
to or anchoring. It is now over two hours since we started on this fearful race, which has
kept my heart in my mouth the whole time; and I am expecting, every minute, to get sight of
that rocky headland."

"But that," rejoined Elwood (for the gentleman was no other than Claud Elwood, as the reader
has doubtless already inferred), "that will bring us, according to the late rumor, into one
of the principal haunts of the pirates, will it not?"

"Yes, partly, perhaps," replied the captain; "but I hear that Commodore Porter has arrived,
with the American squadron, in these seas, to break up these pests, and I presume has done
it, or frightened them away, so that we sha'n't be molested. At any rate, I saw no safer course
to outlive such a tempest. You are the owner of ship and cargo, to be sure; but you put on
me the responsibility of her safety."

"Certainly," rejoined the other, "for my guidance would be a poor one; and, instead of any
disposition to criticise your course, Captain Golding, I feel but too grateful, with the life
of a beloved wife at stake, to say nothing of my own, and so much property, that your skill
has enabled us to outride the storm--now nearly over, I think--so unexpectedly well. But what
is that, a little to the left of the ship's course, in the distance ahead?"

"Ah, that is it!" cheerily exclaimed the captain, casting an eager look in the indicated direction.
"Why, how like a race-horse the ship must be driving ahead! I looked not ten minutes ago, and
nothing was to be seen; and now there is the headland, in full view, but two or three leagues
distant! And stay,--what is that dark object around and a little beyond the point? A ship?
Yes, it grows distinct now,--a large, black ship. That, sir, is an American frigate. Hurra
to you, Elwood! We will now soon be safe, and in safe company."

It was about sunset. The merchantman, having passed the protecting promontory, and swept around
the tall ship of war, had gained an offing, about a half mile beyond, under the lee of a thickly-wooded,
long, narrow island; and was now lying snugly at anchor, riding out the heavy ground-swell
occasioned by the abated storm; while all on board, unsuspicious of molestation, were making
preparations to turn in for the night.

"A sail to the leeward!" shouted a sailor, just sent aloft to make some alteration in the rigging.

The word was passed below; and the captain, mates, and Elwood, were instantly on deck, and
on the lookout. They at once descried a large black schooner, creeping out from behind the
farther end of the island against which they were anchored, about a mile distant, and tacking
and beating her way towards them. She carried no colors by which her character could be determined;
but the very absence of all such insignia, together with the sinister appearance of her long,
low sides, which exhibited the aspect of masked port-holes, and also the peculiar stir of her
evidently large and strange-looking crew, at once marked her as an object of suspicion.

"Elwood, your fears were prophetic," said the captain, lowering his glass from a long, intent
observation. "That craft is a pirate, with scarce a shadow of doubt. But don't the mad creature
see the frigate, and the frigate her?"

With this, they all turned towards the ship of war; but she was no longer visible. A narrow
vein of land fog, put in motion by some local current in shore, had been wafted out on to the
water, and completely enshrouded her from their view.

"I see it all," exclaimed Elwood. "That pirate has been lying, all the afternoon, concealed
behind this island; and his spies, sent into the woods on the island, and to this end of it,
probably, saw both our ship and the frigate take their positions, and this intervening fog
coming on, and reported all to their master; who at once conceived the bold design which he
has now started out to execute,--that of snatching us, as its prize, from under the very guns
of the frigate!"

A brief, earnest consultation was then held; when, knowing the uselessness of trying to signalize
the frigate, they first thought to weigh anchor and try to escape to her protection; but a
little reflection told them the enemy would be down upon them before this could be effected,
and they would be taken, unprepared for defence. The only other alternative left them was,
therefore, quickly adopted; and, in pursuance, the second mate and two seamen were lowered
in the life-boat, with orders to keep the ship between themselves and the schooner till they
got into the screening fog, and then make their way, with all speed, to the frigate, to invoke
her aid and protection; while all the rest should arm themselves with the muskets, swords,
and pistols on board, and, if possible, hold the enemy at bay till succor arrived. And scarcely
had these hasty preparations been made, before the piratical schooner, which had made a wide
tack outward to catch the wind, came swiftly sweeping round to their side, like a towering
falcon on his prey. But, by some miscalculation of her helmsman, she went twenty yards wide
of them--not, however, without betraying the full extent of her bloody purposes; for as, under
the impulse of a speed she found herself unable instantly to check, she swept by on the long,
rolling billows, a score or two of desperate ruffians, headed by their burly and still more
fierce-looking captain, stood on her deck, armed to the teeth, and holding their hooks and
hawsers, ready to grapple and board their intended prey. But, still forbearing to unmask their
batteries or fire a gun, lest they should thus bring down the frigate upon them, her grim and
silent crew sprang to their posts, to tack ship and come round again, with the narrowest sweep,
to repair their former mischance. And, with surprising quickness, their well-worked craft was
again, and this time with no uncertain guidance, shooting alongside of the devoted merchantman.
Still the crew of the latter quailed not; but, well knowing there was no longer any hope of
escaping a struggle in which death or victory were the only alternatives, stood, with knitted
brows and fire-arms cocked and levelled, silently awaiting the onset. It came. With the shock
of the partial collision as the assailing craft raked along the sides of their ship, and the
sudden jerk as she was brought up by the quickly-thrown grapples, the pirate captain, with
a fierce shout of defiance, cleared, at a single bound, the intervening rails, and landed,
with brandished sword, upon their fore-deck. A dozen more, with a wild yell, were in the act
of following, when they were met by a full volley from the guns of the defenders, poured into
their very faces. There was a pause,--a lurch,--a crack of breaking fixtures; and the next
moment the schooner, torn away from her fastenings by the force of a monstrous upheaving wave,
and thrown around at right angles to the unharmed prey so nearly within her clutches, was seen
rolling and reeling on the top of a billow, fifty yards distant. At that instant, twenty jets
of blinding flame fiercely burst from the edge of the fog-cloud, almost within pistol-shot
to the windward, and, with the startling flash, rent sky and ocean leaped as with the concussion
of a closely-breaking volley of linked thunder-peals. There was another and still more awful
pause; when, through the cloud of sulphurous smoke that was rolling over them, the astounded
defenders heard the gurgling rush, as of waters breaking into newly opened chasms, in the direction
of the enemy; and they comprehended all. The frigate, unperceived by the eager pirates, had
dropped down, rounded to, and sent a whole broadside directly into the uprolled hull of the
devoted craft, which had been reduced to a sinking wreck by that one tremendously heavy discharge
of terrible missiles. Within two minutes the lifting smoke disclosed her, reeling and lurching
for the final plunge. Within one more, she rose upright, like some mortally-smitten giant,
quivered an instant, and, with all her grim and hideously-screeching crew, went down, stern
foremost, amid the parting waves of the boiling deep.

These startling scenes had transpired so rapidly that the amazed crew of the merchantman had
taken no thought of the pirate captain whom they had seen leaping on their deck; but they now
turned to look for him, and, whether dead or alive, to take charge of him, to crown the fortunate
result of this fearful encounter. There he stood at bay, with back turned to the foremast,
facing his virtual captors, with a brandished sword in one hand and a pistol in the other,
as if daring them to approach or fire on him. But they were spared the necessity of attempting
either. A boat's crew of armed men from the frigate were already mounting the deck, to claim
whoever of the pirates they found alive, as their trophies. The formidable desperado was pointed
out to them; when, firing a volley over his head, to confuse without killing him, they rushed
forward in the smoke, disarmed, bound, and dragged him along, to pass him down to their boat.
As he was being urged across the deck, his eyes met those of Elwood. The recognition was mutual.
It was Gaut Gurley!

It was morning, and the bright sun was looking down upon an ocean as calm and peaceful as if
its passive bosom had never been disturbed by the ensanguined tumults of warring men, or the
commotions of battling elements.

A youthful couple were standing by the rail, on the deck of the still anchored merchantman,
and glancing up admiringly at the towering masts of the ship-of-war, which had also anchored
for the night on the very spot from which she had dealt such destruction to the pirates, whose
awful fate and the connected circumstances had been with them the topic of conversation.

"This has been such a fearful ordeal to you, dear Fluella," said the young man, smilingly,
"that I shall probably never be able again to induce you to leave home to cross the ocean,
either for health or pleasure, shall I?"

"For pleasure, no, my dear husband," affectionately responded the other; "no, with my happy
New England home, never, for pleasure, Claud."

"But this was for health," rejoined Elwood. "I have never told you how much I was concerned
about you last summer, or that your physician warned me, as cold weather approached, he could
not answer for your life through another winter at the North. It was this only that led me
to urge you to accompany me to Cuba, to remain there till I came back for you in the spring,
as I have now done. And, to say nothing of the gains which my two trips will add to the estate
of which I am heir in expectation,--or rather, as my good uncle will have it, in possession
with him,--to say nothing of this, I shall always be thankful for your coming, for it has so
evidently restored you, I had almost said, to more of health and beauty than I have seen you
exhibiting for the whole two and a half happy years of our married life."

"Thank you, Claud, for the beautiful part of it," said the happy wife, snapping her handkerchief
in his face, with an air of mock resentment; "but I am thinking of home. When shall we reach
there?"

"Well, let us calculate," replied the husband, beginning to catch the affectionate animation
of the other: "this is the 22d of April; and I think I can promise you the enjoyment of a May-day
in New England."

"I hold you to that, sir," playfully rejoined the wife, "for I wish to be preparing for our
summer residence at your cottage on my native lakes. My illness deprived me of that pleasure
last summer, you know, husband mine."

"Yes," said he, with kindling enthusiasm, "we will go, Fluella. I want to see the good old
chief; I want to enjoy the visit I have promised me from my friend Carvil; I want to hear Phillips
discourse on woodcraft, and Chanticleer Codman wake the echoes of the lakes by his marvellous
crowing. Yes, yes, we will go, and make uncle and mother go with us, this time."

"Uncle and mother!" cried Fluella, laughingly; "how odd that is getting to sound, Suppose I
call your mother aunt? Have they not now been married long enough to be both entitled to the
more endearing names of father and mother? and are they not happy enough and good enough to
merit the dearest names?"

"Yes," answered Elwood, "I will correct the habit, if you really wish it. Yes, yes; the once-styled
crusty old bachelor, Arthur Elwood, and my mother, are indeed a happy couple. Did you ever
know a happier?"

"Yes, one," replied the hesitating, blushing wife, drawing down her husband's head, and slyly
imprinting a kiss on his cheek.

The conversation between the happy pair was here interrupted by the appearance of a boat putting
off from the frigate, under the charge of a midshipman; who, having come on board and inquired
out Elwood, now approached and presented him a letter, saying, as he departed, it was from
the pirate prisoner, and would doubtless require no answer.

The greatly surprised young man tore open the letter, and, in company with his wife, read,
with mingled emotions of pain and indignation, the following singular but characteristic compound
of malicious vaunt and shameless confession:

"To CLAUD ELWOOD:--My career is ended, at last. Well, I have the satisfaction of knowing that
I have been nobody's fool nor nobody's tool. Early perceiving that nine out of ten were only
the stupid instruments of the tenth man, the world over, I resolved to go into the system,
and did, and improved on it so as to make nineteen out of twenty tools to me,--that is all.
I have no great fault to find with men generally, though I always despised the whole herd;
for I knew that, if they used me well, it was only because they dared not do otherwise. I don't
write this, however, to preach upon that, but to let you know another thing, to chew upon.

"You call me a murderer; and I want to tell you that you are the son of a murderer, and therefore
stand on a par with my family, even at that. Your father, when we used to operate together
in smuggling, being once hard chased, on an out-of-the-way road, by one of the custom-house
crew, knocked him down with a club, and finished with the blow, to save a thousand dollars'
worth of silk. But I sacredly kept his secret; yes, even to this day, besides making one good
fortune for him, and being on the point of making him another. And yet he betrayed and turned
against me. Yes, in that affair about the missing peltries, he betrayed me, out and out, and
spoilt every thing. That was his unpardonable sin, with me. I resolved he should die for it;
and he did. I didn't want to kill you, but couldn't suffer you to become a witness. No, I never
had any thing against you, except for allowing matters to take the turn that drove my daughter
to anticipate you in breaking off the match. But it was just as well, as it turned out. Avis,
in the position of lady abbess of a convent in one of your eastern cities, which it is settled
she will have, will stand quite as high, I guess, as in the position of lady Elwood.

"I have done, now, except to ask one favor,--the only one I will ever ask of any man,--and
that is, that you won't publish my name, and couple it with the unlucky miss-go of last night;
so that my wife and daughter, who know I am in this region, but not my business, may never
learn that the captain of the Black Rover and I are one. As my brave boys are all gone down,
and as I shall have no trial to bring it out, it rests with you to say whether it is ever to
be known or not; for, as I have said, I have no notion of being either tried or hung, any more
than I had at the North. GAUT."

On finishing this singular and remorseless missive, with its strange, painful, but as he feared
too true disclosure of the secret of that fatal influence which had proved the ruin and final
destruction of his father, Claud Elwood was too much troubled and overcome to utter a word
of comment; and, with his pained and shuddering wife, he stood mute and thoughtful, until aroused
by the stir on board, in preparations for weighing anchor, and the cheering announcement of
the captain that a favoring breeze was springing up, and that within twenty minutes they would
be, under the fairest of auspices, on their rejoicing way to their own beloved New England.

But the cheering thought was not to be enjoyed without the drawback of being compelled to witness
one more and a concluding horror.

