There are always people who will buy a golden eagle "British caught," and those who don't want
live ones will take 'em dead, and have them stuffed. They like to be able to set 'em up in
the hall among other stuffed birds, and boast that they shot 'em.  Other people of it like
decayed mind come and look at them, and offer money for them at sales out of jealousy. That's
collecting.

Now, somewhere, somehow, sometime during his checkered career, Pig Head had heard, or read,
of a way of catching golden eagles.  He proceeded.

Upon an unholy and cold shaly slope well up among the clouds, the mist, and the ptarmigan,
Pig Head had hollowed him out a hollow, roomy enough for himself to crouch in.  He was the
sort of man that crouched--and "grouched."  Over the top he put a nice big slab; the walls
were of piled stones, and at one end was an aperture eight inches or so long by about one foot.
Being made of its surroundings, the hiding-place did not look at all suspicious--from a bird's
point of view.

Finally, upon the morning after the unsuccessful shooting, and before it was light--this was
necessary, for there is no knowing how far the eyes of eagles can see--Pig Head ensconced himself
in this hiding-place.  It was perishing cold, and Pig Head, who did not smoke, and never drank
whisky--only gin--was blue of nose and numb of hand.  A good plaid would have helped him, but
he abhorred plaids.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

The dawn came up over the mountains, the mists sank down to the vales, and the dawn wind, lean
and searching, went whispering over the hills.

Then a speck grew out of the heights, out of the west and the dark, and growing and growing
momentarily, became a rustling, sinister, untidy, heavy shape, which anon settled upon a rock,
and croaked, "Glock! glock!" twice, almost like a bark, in a deep and sepulchral voice. Record
a quick application today, and later on when you have more data, abandon it and file a bad,
full-standard application. "I
looked at him fed on astonishment and said," But somebody else has
merely as much information as we have, and he may start to testing right
off.  It was the wild cat turned inside-out, and other things, on a slab outside the aperture
before mentioned, that was at one end of Pig Head's hiding-place.  And the black specters were
ravens.

"Ou!" they said; then "Aw!" then again "Ou!"  One remarked "Augh!" and the other agreed--or,
it may have been, disagreed--with an "Au!"

Evidently the wild cat, in a disguise in which he would not have known even his own self, looked
very enticing, and he and the situation generally were being discussed from all points of view.

I say from all points of view advisedly, because, although the ravens discoursed much over
their council of war, they would not come within a hundred yards, and it was a voice from the
semi-dark, or western, side which finally stayed them in the very act of unfolding their big,
rounded wings to fly away.

"Krar-krar-krar!" rasped the voice; and the ravens folded their wings again to wait and see!

It was a gray crow, and the ravens knew that never was gray crow an innocent lost in the wilderness.

If the gray, or hoodie, crow--always remembering that crows, gray or black, are servants of
the Devil, just as ravens are, and very cunning--if the crow, I say, thought that here was
food without some horrible form of hidden death lurking behind it, then the chances were the
gray crow was right.  They knew "hoodie," you see.  Anyway, if they let him go first, and he
was wrong, then it would be his funeral, not theirs.

Wherefore the gray crow went first to the bait, and Pig Head, half-dead with cold and peering
out of a tiny peep-hole, called down blessings of a weak and watery nature upon his black head.
And well he might, for if the gray crow had shied at the bait, then everybody else would have
taken his tip.

They took his tip now, for in a few minutes there was a "hurrr-hrrr-hrrr" of wings, and, one
after the other, down came the ravens.

Anon the ravens were joined by a third, volplaning from some cloud-covered peak, where he must
have been watching all the time; and the crow was joined by four accomplices, who just drifted
up from nowhere special, as gray crows have a habit of doing when there is carrion afoot.

But Pig Head had not come there to entertain ravens, nor was he at that moment laying up a
store of lumbago for the purpose of gratuitously feeding disreputable gray crows.  He had other
quarry in view.  The gray crows, however, were his best asset.  They quarreled, and were loquacious,
and, in fact, they made a most infernal noise; and he had stated that the noise was necessary
to his success.  This would seem as if eagles hunt by sound as well as by sight.  Pig Head
was the first person I ever heard that suggested so.  But, be that as it may, the racket increased
as the sun, robed in purple, gold, and crimson splendor, rose over the mountain-tops; and with
the sun came the only bird, so the ancients tell us, who can look the sun full in the face
without blinking--Aquila, the eagle.

But--make no mistake about this point--he who came then, grandly, proudly sweeping over the
blue, dim ridges, was not the Chieftain himself, for this was not the Chieftain's territory,
but the Chieftain's son; he who lived, as you will remember, upon the other, or south, side
of Loch Royal.

Haughtily, statelily, as a king might go to his throne, so did the Chieftain's son let himself
down, in stupendous hundred-foot spirals, to a pinnacle of rock, jagged, saw-edged, and perpendicular,
about two hundred yards away; and the ravens and the gray crows, who saw him coming, made great
and sudden hostile outcry at first, and then, as he folded, foot by foot, his immense pinions
about him, and sat there erect, with his piercing, scowling gaze bent upon them, they were dumb.

And Pig Head, aching with cramp and cold in his hiding-place, knew that the quarry was at hand.
But if you think, because the eagle was at hand, that the time was at hand too, you don't know
eagles.  They may be, upon occasion, as quick as the spring of death, but they can also be
as slow as the wrath of Heaven.  And that bird there, the great, grand, haughty, unbending
Aquila chrysoetus, that golden eagle, sat.  I say, he sat.  And there, so far as he was concerned,
appeared to be an end of it.  He might have been a carven copestone of the very granite fang
he sat upon, for all the appearance of life he gave, except that occasionally--say at fifteen-minute
intervals--he winked a yellow-lidded wink.  And the wink was almost as unlifelike and uncanny
as the bird.

And the gray crows and the ravens gulped and quarreled, with one eye upon the eagle and one
upon their job; and Pig Head--Pig Head sat and cursed that eagle, from his horny beak to his
barred tail, through chattering--and aching--teeth.  But the eagle never moved a feather.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

We are told that Alexander sighed for other worlds to conquer.  So it was with the Chieftain,
who was not Alexander.

After his wife had gone a-hunting eastward--a wonderful and gigantic silhouette floating and
dwindling into the furnace of the rising sun--the Chieftain sat upon his ledge of rock, staring
across the gleaming, painted, glassy expanse of Loch Royal, southward, to the dominions of his son.

He had seen his son, a speck in the dawnlight, invisible to our eyes, sailing from peak to
upflung peak.  He had seen him suddenly check and circle downwards.  And then--he had not seen him.

He had waited two hours, with that patience which birds and reptiles have, and still he had
not seen him.  Yet, if during that time he had risen, the Chieftain must have seen him.  And
the Chieftain knew that. He knew also that a golden eagle very rarely makes a "kill" so big
that he has to remain with it two hours.  The alternative, therefore, would seem to be death
or carrion; and the way in which he had circled down would seem to suggest carrion.  And it
is written among the laws of the king of birds that when carrion is about, the strict rules
and regulations as to the inviolability of the frontiers may be, in some degree, broken.

Therefore the king unfurled his overshadowing vans, and launched himself down the lake with
mighty, slow, powerful strokes, like the steady thrust of marine engines.  He would go and see.

Five minutes later the Chieftain was as motionless as his son, perched, like him, too, upon
a rock, watching the highwaymen and footpads of the moors squabbling over the bait--they had
no eyes to see what they were doing, for they had to keep one eye upon each eagle--and about
two hundred yards away on the other side.

This may have hurried matters somewhat, for within only about another half-hour the Chieftain's
son rose, and, with heavy wing-flaps, flew down to the bait, sending the ravens and the crows
up in a cloud, like blown bits of burnt paper, as he came to anchor.  And it was curious that,
in stooping to meanness, the royal bird's aspect was no longer grand.  He flew heavily and
clumsily to the spot.  He settled without grace, and almost overbalanced on to his Grecian
nose.  He clutched, and tore, and gulped, and gorged like a vulture.  Thus Nature always dresses
her actors for their parts.  You may have noticed it.

But Pig Head--Pig Head was chuckling.  He had silently and softly removed the clod of peat
that blocked the aperture before mentioned.  Running through this aperture he had a cord whose
other end was fastened to the bait, and every time the great eagle wrenched and tore at the
flesh, he very, very gently pulled the bait towards him.  He did not move when the mighty bird
had his head up, gulping, you will note; for even Pig Head knew that an eagle nearly standing
on his head and tugging, and not feeling the difference between his own tugs and the tugs on
a cord, is not the same as an eagle with his head up and eyes stabbing everywhere at once.

At last the victim had been drawn, upon the bait, within reach, and Pig Head, slipping his
hand through the opening, grabbed the thick, powerful legs of the bird, and pulled.  There
was one mighty upheaval of vast vans, and--no eagle!  What happened down inside the hiding-place
was more or less private.  There were sounds as if a young earthquake were getting ready to
be born in that place; but in the end the Chieftain's son had his legs tied, and suffered the
indignity of being ignominiously thrust into a filthy sack.  He said nothing during that argument,
but his looks were enough to kill anything with a thinner hide than Pig Head.

Immediately Pig Head got ready for the Chieftain.  What's that?  Yes, the Chieftain is right.
That great, haughty bird had not moved.  You see, eagles are not educated up to seeing their
full-grown sons disappear into the bowels of the earth without explanation or warning given.
There is nothing in their experience to meet the phenomenon.  Consequently they don't tumble,
as a rule, and--well, listen for yourself.

In a short time--a short time for an eagle; not less than half-an-hour, really--the Chieftain
flapped heavily to the bait, and fed--beastily, if the truth must be told.

He was bigger than his son, and heavier, and knew more about the world, and Pig Head was longer
in seeing a fair chance to make a grab at the royal legs.  At last, however, the chance came,
and Pig Head grabbed. The Chieftain naturally lost his balance, and before he knew what had
happened he was inside Pig Head's "booby-hutch."

The Chieftain, however, was not an ordinary bird, not even an ordinary eagle.  Moreover, he
must have been a great age, older even than Pig Head.  Be that as it may, the Chieftain believed
mightily in the wild maxim which says, "They should take who have the power, and they should
keep who can."

And upon that he acted.

It all happened in a flash.  Like lightning his right wing came round with a terrific flail-stroke,
and hit Pig Head in the face at the precise instant that the surgical instrument he carried
as his beak sank deep into one of Pig Head's calves.  The Chieftain was upside-down at the
moment, and his legs were tied together, but that made no difference to the savagery of the blow.

Pig Head uttered one howl of agony, and tumbled backwards, and his devil saw to it that he
should tumble backwards upon the very sack wherein lay the Chieftain's son, squirming with
rage.  The Chieftain's son was a son of his father, and hearing the young hurricane of his
father's wings, and feeling the intolerable weight of Pig Head sitting involuntarily down upon
him, struck for the cause like a good un--struck, with his cruel, hooked bill, through sack,
through trousers, through pants, and home through flesh, and Pig Head rebounded into the air
considerably quicker than he had gone down, hitting his head against the roof, a resounding
whack, and yelling fit to awake all the devils in cinders.  And he did not go alone.  Upon
one calf, and upon--another portion of him, the Chieftain and the Chieftain's son went with him.

Very few men have ever left a powder-magazine on fire in quicker time than did Pig Head leave
his hiding-place, and none could have made more noise in the process.  The Chieftain stuck
to him lovingly, and the Chieftain's son, sack and all, seemed determined never to leave him;
and Pig Head was nearly demented with pain as he leapt out, caracoling wildly, into the light
of day, and into the arms of--only the laird, the head stalker, four gillies, and two collies.

They had come to find him, these stern-faced, long, lean men, on account of "information received."
And they had found him.  But they did not speak.  They were Scotch.  Nor did they screw out
a smile among them. They were Jocks!  They acted--being Highlanders.

Four hands like iron claws seized Pig Head, and tipped him on end, even as he had tipped the
eagles.  Two knives went "snick" as they opened, then "wheep-wheep" as they cut. But you'd have trouble
making your guessed-at ingredients stick. In the happening gone of Corona cord pall Company
v. Dovan, the court said the patentee was entitled to his wide dibs because he proved he had tested
a number of the members of a reasonable aggregation.

It was the "half-baked" that did it. I started to question, but Mr. Spardleton was in chemical
action, and he said to me, "the, sir, and ye haven't. you are not
ready to put in broad claims on a half-hurled invention."

Have you? "

Then the laird turned to Pig Head, and, "Mon, ye dinna ken th' laird.  If ye did--w-e-e-l,
Ah'm thinkin' ye'd understand."

XVII

RATEL, V.C.

Between the clumps of the stunted acacias the sun beat down with the pitilessness of a battleship's
furnace, and it was not much better in the acacias themselves.  Save for a lizard here and
there, motionless as a bronze fibula, or a snake asleep with eyes wide open, or the flash of
a "pinging" fly, all Nature seemed to have fled from that intolerable white-hot glare and gone
to sleep.

But the hour of emancipation was at hand, and the dim caverns of shade--what there was of it--stirred
strangely.  A hundred yards away a blotch of shadow beneath a group of stunted trees swayed
and broke up into several zebra moving off to water.  Fifty yards distant the inky shade that
carpeted the earth under a bare outcrop of rock gave up a single gnu antelope bull and a Grant's
gazelle whose lyrate horns were as wonderful as his consummate grace.

Thereafter came sound.  Till then there had been only heat, the first hints at movement, and
the terrifying silence of the wilderness.  Even the birds had been dumb.  Now came "a feathered
denizen of the grove" with a peculiarly arresting, grating chatter, a noise no one could overlook,
and few could help investigating.  And finally, brazenly, impudently, excitedly flitting from
branch to branch, the chatterer evolved slowly out of the ragged bush-choked landscape, a dusky
little bird, seemingly a bird of no importance, scarce larger than a lark.

Putting personal appearance aside, however, this feathered one, who dared to shatter the slumber
of the everlasting wilderness, seemed to be under the impression that he was of vast importance.
Moreover, his business appeared to be pressing and urgent, so that he could neither brook delay
nor take "No" for an answer.  It was as though he was under a desperate need to take you somewhere
or show you something, and YOU must follow him--must; there was nothing else for it.

But nobody cared.  The zebra trooped off without turning their striped heads; the gazelle,
weighted under his horns, and the gnu bull stalked away unattending; the lizards remained fixed
in a permanent attitude of attention; and the snakes continued to stare at nothing.  No one
took the slightest notice.

Then came the reply.

It was as if a person or a thing, deep down in the bowels of the earth, hearing the bird, stirred
in its sleep, and shouted up, "I come."  And it came.

Heralded by a peculiar, quaint, little, chatty, sibilant, hissing, whistling chuckle, there
emerged from a regular cave that he, or an ant-bear, or some other burrower had constructed
under an ancient bush, a beast--a most remarkable beast.

It was long--about three feet.  It was low; it was stumpy, clumpy, sturdy, bear-like, and altogether
odd.  It had no ears that any one could find, and it rattled the most murderous armament of
claws that you ever guessed at.  But that was not all; not by any means.  It, or, rather, he,
had really been colored grayish white in the first place; but Nature had thoughtlessly dropped
him into a vat of black paint on his "tummy," flat, and left him there to swim about, so that
by the time he got out he was one half, including chin, black, and the other and upper half,
including top of head and back and top of tail, grayish white.  And then, for a joke, it seemed,
Nature had painted a white band round where black and grayish white met, a sort of water-line,
so to speak, and let the poor little beggar go--go, mark you, into a wild where self-advertisement
is something more than unhealthful for the smaller folks.  Afterwards, however, Nature--who
is all a woman--had repented, seemingly, and being unable to undo her own jest, had given to
the little, slow, conspicuous beast, as compensation, a courage surpassing the courage of any
other beast on earth.  The result was rather curious--it was also the ratel, or honey-badger,
who had nothing at all to do with rats, but everything to do with honey, and was self-evidently
more than three-parts badger.

"Kru-tshee!  Kru-tshee-chlk!  Krue-tshee-chlk-chlk, whee-tshee-tse-tse, tse-i-who-o-o!" he
whistled, and chuckled, and muttered, and fairly sang to himself as he came trotting along
towards the cheeky little bird, like a dog that answers a whistle.  His gait was all his own,
as he, too, was all his own original self, being unlike anything else, although he bore the
stamp of the badger people upon him.

With a calm, rolling trot, head down, tail up, back a fraction arched, with something like
the slouch of his distant relation, the wolverine, he proceeded, preceded always by that dusky
phantom bird that flitted and perched ahead of him, like a yellow-hammer down a country lane--calling,
calling, calling.  And he, lifting his odd, flat, "earless," sleek head to it, would whistle
and chuckle in reply.  They had, it seemed, arrived at a perfect understanding, these two,
during the centuries.  "Lead on, Macduff!" he seemed to say.

They passed antelopes anchored in the shade; hartebeest, impala, and roan after their kind.
They heard the click of horn and the stamp of hoof, but troubled not.  They passed the place
where a leopard lay asleep up a tree, and saw a devil's whip of a ten-foot mamba snake--and
the bite of that same is a sixty-second short cut to the grave--flee before them as if they,
and not it, were death incarnate.  Once a serval cat, all legs and ears and agility, stood
in their path to listen to the funny chuckling, whistling noises, but fled when it saw the
little, low ratel as if it had seen a ghost.

But always undeterred by anything in the way, engrossed utterly on the task in view, the dusky
bird flew ahead, calling the ratel on with its harsh cry; and always the ratel, unhurried and
cool, jogged along in its wake, answering, and whistling, and chuckling away to it, as if convulsed
with inward merriment.  Perhaps he was.  It was a strange procession, anyway, and one you don't
look for every day in the week, even in Africa, the land of mysteries and surprises.

Finally, the bird stopped; and the ratel looked, and saw that it was flitting round the base
of a big mimosa.  Enough!  He hurried a little at last.  Next moment he was nearly hidden under
a continuous stream of earth and dust flying back from his amazing foreclaws, and a whirling,
whirring vortex of perfectly demented bees, whose nest, that had been weeks in the building,
was dissolving in seconds under the trowel-like scoopings of those fearful claws.

Honey!  Honey!  Honey!

That was it. "as can we must try at it in plant." "as far as i know." "able," i said. "well, that's where
the difficulty, And
at carl.

I stopped and looked to Callahan and said," you
will be good at their make on a paper-making, won't you?

"

The bird, with the quick eye of a detective, had located the hole of the nest, but having no
trowel, forthwith fetched the ratel, who had, and together they fed, the beast on honey, and
the bird on the grubs in the combs.

And the bees?  Oh, they don't count!  At least, they might have been house-flies for all the
notice the ratel took of them, save now and then to bunch a dozen or so off his cowled head
carelessly.  Yet they would probably have nearly killed us.

It was about this time that the bull-gnu appeared, tramping steadily towards them; a rugged,
rough renegade of the wilderness; a ruffian kicked--or, rather, horned--out of some herd forever,
and, for his sins, doomed always to face the risks of life alone, or in the companionship of
other male outlaws of soured temper like himself--almost always male; the female wild seems
guiltless of law-breaking, or is under a banner of protection if it is not.  Such "rogues,"
as men call them, are not gentlemanly, as a rule.  And, by the way, you know the gnu, of course,
alias wildebeest?  The head of a very shaggy buffalo, the horsy mane, the delicate, strong,
sloping antelope body, the long, mustang-like tail, and the strange, twisted, unconventional
character, half-fierce, half-inquisitive.

He--that lonely one--was going to drink, and he may have been doing it early because he had
only his two eyes and ears, and his one nose, to warn him of the dozen or two forms of death
that awaited him at the drinking-place, instead of the eyes and ears and noses of all the herd.

The gnu saw neither honey-bird nor badger till he was within a yard of them.  Then he stopped
as instantly still as if he had been electrocuted.

