Lithoprinted from Author's Typescript EDWARDS BROTHERS, INC. Lithoprinters ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN 1947

INTRODUCTION

We remember Samuel Wesley (1662-1735), if at all, as the father of a great religious leader.
In his own time he was known to many as a poet and a writer of controversial prose. His poetic
career began in 1685 with the publication of Maggots, a collection of juvenile verses on trivial
subjects, the preface to which, a frothy concoction, apologizes to the reader because the book
is neither grave nor gay. The first poem, "On a Maggot," is composed in hudibrastics, with
a diction obviously Butlerian, and it is followed by facetious poetic dialogues and by Pindarics
of the Cowleian sort but on such subjects as "On the Grunting of a Hog." In 1688 Wesley took
his B.A. at Exeter College, Oxford, following which he became a naval chaplain and, in 1690,
rector of South Ormsby; he became rector of Epworth in 1695. During the run of the Athenian
Gazette (1691-1697) he joined with Richard Sault and John Norris in assisting John Dunton,
the promoter of the undertaking. His second venture in poetry, the Life of Our Blessed Lord
and Saviour, an epic largely in heroic couplets with a prefatory discourse on heroic poetry,
appeared in 1693, was reissued in 1694, and was honored with a second edition in 1697. In 1695
he dutifully came forward with Elegies, lamenting the deaths of Queen Mary and Archbishop Tillotson.
An Epistle to a Friend concerning Poetry (1700) was followed by at least four other volumes
of verse, the last of which was issued in 1717. His poetry appears to have had readers on a
certain level, but it stirred up little pleasure among wits, writers, or critics. Judith Drake
confessed that she was lulled to sleep by Blackmore's Prince Arthur and by Wesley's "heroics"
(Essay in Defence of the Female Sex, 1696, p. 50). And he was satirized as a mare poetaster
in Garth's Dispensary, in Swift's The Battle of the Books, and in the earliest issues of the
Dunciad. Nobody today would care to defend his poetry for its esthetic merits.

For a few years in the early eighteenth century Wesley found himself in the vortex of controversy.
Brought up in the dissenting tradition, he had swerved into conformity at some point during
the 1680's, possibly under the influence of Tillotson, whom he greatly admired (cf. Epistle
to a Friend, pp. 5-6). In 1702 there appeared his Letter from a Country Divine to his friend
in London concerning the education of dissenters in their private academies, apparently written
about 1693. This attack upon dissenting academies was published at an unfortunate time, when
the public mind was inflamed by the intolerance of overzealous churchmen. Wesley was furiously
answered; he replied in A Defence of a Letter (1704), and again in A Reply to Mr. Palmer's
Vindication (1707). It is scarcely to Wesley's credit that in this quarrel he stood shoulder
to shoulder with that most hot-headed of all contemporary bigots, Henry Sacheverell. His prominence
in the controversy earned him the ironic compliments of Defoe, who recalled that our "Mighty
Champion of this very High-Church Cause" had once written a poem to satirize frenzied Tories
(Review, II, no. 87, Sept. 22, 1705). About a week later Defoe, having got wind of a collection
being taken up for Wesley--who in consequence of a series of misfortunes was badly in debt--intimated
that High-Church pamphleteering had turned out very profitably for both Lesley and Wesley (Oct.
2, 1705). But in such snarling and bickering Wesley was out of his element, and he seems to
have avoided future quarrels.

His literary criticism is small in bulk. But though it is neither brilliant nor well written
(Wesley apparently composed at a break-neck clip), it is not without interest. Pope observed
in 1730 that he was a "learned" man (letter to Swift, in Works, ed. Elwin-Courthope, VII, 184).
The observation was correct, but it should be added that Wesley matured at the end of an age
famous for its great learning, an age whose most distinguished poet was so much the scholar
that he appeared more the pedant than the gentleman to critics of the succeeding era; Wesley
was not singular for erudition among his seventeenth-century contemporaries.

The "Essay on Heroic Poetry," serving as Preface to The Life of Our Blessed Lord and Saviour,
reveals something of its author's erudition. Among the critics, he was familiar with Aristotle,
Horace, Longinus, Dionysius of Halicarnasseus, Heinsius, Bochart, Balzac, Rapin, Le Bossu,
and Boileau. But this barely hints at the extent of his learning. In the notes on the poem
itself the author displays an interest in classical scholarship, Biblical commentary, ecclesiastical
history, scientific inquiry, linguistics and philology, British antiquities, and research into
the history, customs, architecture, and geography of the Holy Land; he shows, an intimate acquaintance
with Grotius, Henry Hammond, Joseph Mede, Spanheim, Sherlock, Lightfoot, and Gregory, with
Philo, Josephus, Fuller, Walker, Camden, and Kircher; and he shows an equal readiness to draw
upon Cudworth's True Intellectual System and Boyle's new theories concerning the nature of
light. In view of such a breadth of knowledge it is somewhat surprising to find him quoting
as extensively as he does in the "Essay" from Le Bossu and Rapin, and apparently leaning heavily
upon them.

The "Essay" was composed at a time when the prestige of Rymer and neo-Aristotelianism in England
was already declining, and though Wesley expressed some admiration for Rapin and Le Bossu,
he is by no means docile under their authority. Whatever the weight of authority, he says,
"I see no cause why Poetry should not be brought to the Test [of reason], as well as Divinity...."
As to the sacred example of Homer, who based his great epic on mythology, Wesley remarks, "But
this [mythology] being now antiquated, I cannot think we are oblig'd superstitiously to follow
his Example, any more than to make Horses speak, as he does that of Achilles." To the question
of the formidable Boileau, "What Pleasure can it be to hear the howlings of repining Lucifer?"
our critic responds flippantly, "I think 'tis easier to answer than to find out what shew of
Reason he had for asking it, or why Lucifer mayn't howl as pleasantly as either Cerberus, or
Enceladus." Without hesitation or apology he takes issue with Rapin's conception of Decorum
in the epic. But Wesley is empiricist as well as rationalist, and the judgment of authority
can be upset by appeal to the court of experience. To Balzac's suggestion that, to avoid difficult
and local proper names in poetry, generalized terms be used, such as Ill-luck for the Fates
and the Foul Fiend for Lucifer, our critic replies with jaunty irony, "... and whether this
wou'd not sound extreamly Heroical, I leave any Man to judge," and thus he dismisses the matter.
Similarly, when Rapin objects to Tasso's mingling of lyric softness in the majesty of the epic,
Wesley points out sharply that no man of taste will part with the fine scenes of tender love
in Tasso, Dryden, Ovid, Ariosto, and Spenser "for the sake of a fancied Regularity." He had
set out to defend the Biblical epic, the Christian epic, and the propriety of Christian machines
in epic, and no rules or authority could deter him. As good an example as any of his independence
of mind can be seen in a note on Bk. I, apropos of the poet's use of obsolete words (Life of
Our Blessed Lord, 1697, p. 27): it may be in vicious imitation of Milton and Spenser, he says
in effect, but I have a fondness for old words, they please my ear, and that is all the reason
I can give for employing them.

Wesley's resistance to a strict application of authority and the rules grew partly out of the
rationalistic and empirical temper of Englishmen in his age, but it also sprang from his learning.
From various sources he drew the theory that Greek and Latin were but corrupted forms of ancient
Phoenician, and that the degeneracy of Greek and Latin in turn had produced all, or most, of
the present European tongues (ibid., p. 354). In addition, he believed that the Greeks had
derived some of their thought from older civilizations, and specifically that Plato had received
many of his notions from the Jews (ibid., p. 230)--an idea which recalls the argument that
Dryden in Religio Laici had employed against the deists. Furthermore, he had, like many of
his learned contemporaries, a profound respect for Hebrew culture and the sublimity of the
Hebrew scriptures, going so far as to remark in the "Essay on Heroic Poetry" that "most, even
of [the heathen poets'] best Fancies and Images, as well as Names, were borrow'd from the Antient
Hebrew Poetry and Divinity." In short, however faulty his particular conclusions, he had arrived
at an historical viewpoint, from which it was no longer possible to regard the classical standards--much
less the standards of French critics--as having the holy sanction of Nature herself.

Some light is shed on the literary tastes of his period by Wesley's two essays here reproduced,
which with a few exceptions were in accord with the prevailing current. The Life of Our Blessed
Lord shows strongly the influence of Cowley's Davideis. Wesley's great admiration persisted
after the tide had turned away from Cowley; and his liking for the "divine Herbert" and for
Crashaw represented the tastes of sober and unfashionable readers. In spite of the fact that
he professed unbounded admiration for Homer as the greatest genius in nature, in practise he
seemed more inclined to follow the lead of Cowley, Virgil, and Vida. Although there was much
in Ariosto that he enjoyed, he preferred Tasso; the irregularities in both, however, he felt
bound to deplore. To Spenser's Faerie Queene he allowed extraordinary merit. If the plan of
it was noble, he thought, and the mark of a comprehensive genius, yet the action of the poem
seemed confused. Nevertheless, like Prior later, Wesley was inclined to suspend judgment on
this point because the poem had been left incomplete. To Spenser's "thoughts" he paid the highest
tribute, and to his "Expressions flowing natural and easie, with such a prodigious Poetical
Copia as never any other must expect to enjoy." Like most of the Augustans Wesley did not care
greatly for Paradise Regained, but he partly atoned by his praise for Paradise Lost, which
was an "original" and therefore "above the common Rules." Though defective in its action, it
was resplendent with sublime thoughts perhaps superior to any in Virgil or Homer, and full
of incomparable and exquisitely moving passages. In spite of his belief that Milton's blank
verse was a mistake, making for looseness and incorrectness, he borrowed lines and images from
it, and in Bk. IV of The Life of Our Blessed Lord he incorporated a whole passage of Milton's
blank verse in the midst of his heroic couplets.

Wesley's attitude toward Dryden deserves a moment's pause. In the "Essay on Heroic Poetry"
he observed that a speech of Satan's in Paradise Lost is nearly equalled in Dryden's State
of Innocence. Later in the same essay he credited a passage in Dryden's King Arthur with showing
an improvement upon Tasso. There is no doubt as to his vast respect for the greatest living
poet, but his remarks do not indicate that he ranked Dryden with Virgil, Tasso, or Milton;
for he recognized as well as we that the power to embellish and to imitate successfully does
not constitute the highest excellence in poetry. In the Epistle to a Friend he affirmed his
admiration for Dryden's matchless style, his harmony, his lofty strains, his youthful fire,
and even his wit--in the main, qualities of style and expression. But by 1700 Wesley had absorbed
enough of the new puritanism that was rising in England to qualify his praise; now he deprecated
the looseness and indecency of the poetry, and called upon the poet to repent. One other point
calls for comment. Wesley's scheme for Christian machinery in the epic, as described in the
"Essay on Heroic Poetry," is remarkably similar to Dryden's. Dryden's had appeared in the essay
on satire prefaced to his translation of Juvenal, published late in October, 1692; Wesley's
scheme appeared soon after June, 1693.

The Epistle to a Friend concerning Poetry is neither startling nor contemptible; it has, in
fact, much more to say than the rhymed treatises on verse by Roscommon and Buckinghamshire.
Its remarks on Genius are fresh, though tantalizing in their brevity, and it defends the Moderns
with both neatness and energy. Much of its advice is cautious and commonplace--but such was
the tradition of the poetical treatise on verse. Appearing within two years of Collier's first
attack upon the stage, it reinforces some of that worthy's contentions, but we are not aware
of its having had much effect.

The Epistle to a Friend concerning Poetry is here reproduced, with permission, from the copy
at Harvard. The "Essay on Heroic Poetry" is reproduced, with permission, from a copy of the
1697 edition of The Life of Our Blessed Lord owned by the Henry E. Huntington Library, at San
Marino, California. Our reproduction of the second item was made from a typescript because
the printing of the original lacks the size and clarity which are necessary for satisfactory
results In lithoprinting. The typescript follows the original accurately except that italics
(crazily profuse in the 1697 edition) are omitted, the use of quotation marks is normalized,
and three obvious typographical errors are silently emended.

  Edward Niles Hooker

AN EPISTLE TO A FRIEND CONCERNING POETRY.

By SAMUEL WESLEY.

Fungor vice Cotis.

LONDON

Printed for CHARLES HARPER, at the Flower de Luce in Fleetstreet. MDCC. 25. Aprill.

PREFACE.

I have not much to say of this Poem, before I leave it to the Mercy of the Reader. There's
no need of looking far into it, to find out that the direct Design of a great part of it, is
to Serve the Cause of Religion and Virtue; tho' 'twas necessary for that End to dispose the
whole in such a manner as might be agreeable to the Tast of the present Age, and of those who
usually give such sort of Books the Reading. If there be any Thoughts in it relating to Poetry,
that either are not known to all Persons, or are tolerably ranged and expressed, the Reader
is welcome to 'em for Over-weight: If there are too few of these, I yet hope the Pardon of
all candid Judges, because I've done the best I cou'd on this Argument. I can't be angry with
any Person for ranking me amongst the Ogylbys; my Quarrel is with these that rank themselves
amongst Atheists, and impudently defend and propagate that ridiculous Opinion of the Eternity
of the World, and a fatal invincible Chain of Things, which, it seems, is now most commonly
made use of to destroy the Faith, as our lewd Plays are to corrupt the Morals of the Nation:
An Opinion, big with more Absurdities than Transubstantiation it self, and of far more fatal
Consequence, if receiv'd and believ'd: For besides its extremely weakening, if not destroying,
the Belief of the Being and Providence of God, it utterly takes away any sort of Freedom in
Humane Actions, reduces Mankind beneath the Brute Creation; perfectly excuses the greatest
Villanies in this World, and entirely vacates all Retribution hereafter. One wou'd wonder with
what Face or Conscience such a Sett of Men shou'd hope to be treated by the Rules of Civility,
when they themselves break through those of Society, and common Humanity: How they can expect
any fairer Quarter than Wolves or Tygers; or what Reason they can give why a Price should not
be sett upon their Heads, as well as on the Others; or at least why they should not be securely
hamper'd and muzzled, and led about for a Sight, like other Monsters. 'Tis the fatal and spreading
Poyson of these Mens Examples and Principles which has extorted these warm Expressions from
me; I cannot with Patience see my Countrey ruin'd by the prodigious increase of Infidelity
and Immorality, nor forbear crying out with some Vehemence, when I am giving Warning to all
honest Men to stand up in the Defence of it, when it is in greater and more eminent danger
than it wou'd have been formerly, if the Spanish Armada had made a Descent amongst us: I don't
speak of these things by distant Hear-say, or only from our publick Prints, but from my own
Knowledg and little Acquaintance in the World, and therefore others must have observ'd much
more, and cannot but fear, that if things go on as they now are, without a greater Check, and
more severe Laws against these wide and contagious Mischiefs, at least without a more general
united Endeavour to put those Laws already made in strict Execution, we are in a fair way to
become a Nation of Atheists. 'Tis now no difficult matter to meet with those who pretend to
be lewd upon Principles; They'll talk very gravely, look as if they were in earnest, and come
sobrii ad perdendam Rempublicam: they wou'd be Criticks too, and Philosophers: They attack
Religion in Form and batter it from every Quarter; they wou'd turn the very Scriptures against
themselves, and labour hard to remove a Supreme Being out of the World; or if they do vouchsafe
him any room in it, 'tis only that they may find Fault with his Works, which they think, with
that Blasphemer of old, might have been much better order'd, had they themselves stood by and
directed the Architect. They'll tell you the Errors of Nature are every where plain and visible,
all monstrous, here too much and there too little; or, as one of their own Poets,

  Here she's too sparing, there profusely vain.

