THE

SPIRIT OF THE AGE:

OR

CONTEMPORARY PORTRAITS.

"To know another well were to know one's self."

CONTENTS.

JEREMY BENTHAM

WILLIAM GODWIN

MR. COLERIDGE

REV. MR. IRVING

THE LATE MR. HORNE TOOKE

SIR WALTER SCOTT

LORD BYRON

MR. CAMPBELL--MR. CRABBE

SIR JAMES MACKINTOSH

MR. WORDSWORTH

MR. MALTHUS

MR. GIFFORD

MR. JEFFREY

MR. BROUGHAM--SIR F. BURDETT

LORD ELDON--MR. WILBERFORCE

MR. SOUTHEY

MR. T. MOORE--MR. LEIGH HUNT

ELIA--GEOFFREY CRAYON

THE

SPIRIT OF THE AGE.

       *       *       *       *       *

JEREMY BENTHAM.

Mr. Bentham is one of those persons who verify the old adage, that "A prophet has no honour,
except out of his own country." His reputation lies at the circumference; and the lights of
his understanding are reflected, with increasing lustre, on the other side of the globe. His
name is little known in England, better in Europe, best of all in the plains of Chili and the
mines of Mexico. He has offered constitutions for the New World, and legislated for future
times. The people of Westminster, where he lives, hardly know of such a person; but the Siberian
savage has received cold comfort from his lunar aspect, and may say to him with Caliban--"I
know thee, and thy dog and thy bush!" The tawny Indian may hold out the hand of fellowship
to him across the GREAT PACIFIC. We believe that the Empress Catherine corresponded with him;
and we know that the Emperor Alexander called upon him, and presented him with his miniature
in a gold snuff-box, which the philosopher, to his eternal honour, returned. Mr. Hobhouse is
a greater man at the hustings, Lord Rolle at Plymouth Dock; but Mr. Bentham would carry it
hollow, on the score of popularity, at Paris or Pegu. The reason is, that our author's influence
is purely intellectual. He has devoted his life to the pursuit of abstract and general truths,
and to those studies--

  "That waft a thought from Indus to the Pole"--

and has never mixed himself up with personal intrigues or party politics. He once, indeed,
stuck up a hand-bill to say that he (Jeremy Bentham) being of sound mind, was of opinion that
Sir Samuel Romilly was the most proper person to represent Westminster; but this was the whim
of the moment. Otherwise, his reasonings, if true at all, are true everywhere alike: his speculations
concern humanity at large, and are not confined to the hundred or the bills of mortality. It
is in moral as in physical magnitude. The little is seen best near: the great appears in its
proper dimensions, only from a more commanding point of view, and gains strength with time,
and elevation from distance!

Mr. Bentham is very much among philosophers what La Fontaine was among poets:--in general habits
and in all but his professional pursuits, he is a mere child. He has lived for the last forty
years in a house in Westminster, overlooking the Park, like an anchoret in his cell, reducing
law to a system, and the mind of man to a machine. He scarcely ever goes out, and sees very
little company. The favoured few, who have the privilege of the entrée, are always admitted
one by one. He does not like to have witnesses to his conversation. He talks a great deal,
and listens to nothing but facts. When any one calls upon him, he invites them to take a turn
round his garden with him (Mr. Bentham is an economist of his time, and sets apart this portion
of it to air and exercise)--and there you may see the lively old man, his mind still buoyant
with thought and with the prospect of futurity, in eager conversation with some Opposition
Member, some expatriated Patriot, or Transatlantic Adventurer, urging the extinction of Close
Boroughs, or planning a code of laws for some "lone island in the watery waste," his walk almost
amounting to a run, his tongue keeping pace with it in shrill, cluttering accents, negligent
of his person, his dress, and his manner, intent only on his grand theme of UTILITY--or pausing,
perhaps, for want of breath and with lack-lustre eye to point out to the stranger a stone in
the wall at the end of his garden (overarched by two beautiful cotton-trees) Inscribed to the
Prince of Poets, which marks the house where Milton formerly lived. To shew how little the
refinements of taste or fancy enter into our author's system, he proposed at one time to cut
down these beautiful trees, to convert the garden where he had breathed the air of Truth and
Heaven for near half a century into a paltry Chreistomathic School, and to make Milton's house
(the cradle of Paradise Lost) a thoroughfare, like a three-stalled stable, for the idle rabble
of Westminster to pass backwards and forwards to it with their cloven hoofs. Let us not, however,
be getting on too fast--Milton himself taught school! There is something not altogether dissimilar
between Mr. Bentham's appearance, and the portraits of Milton, the same silvery tone, a few
dishevelled hairs, a peevish, yet puritanical expression, an irritable temperament corrected
by habit and discipline. Or in modern times, he is something between Franklin and Charles Fox,
with the comfortable double-chin and sleek thriving look of the one, and the quivering lip,
the restless eye, and animated acuteness of the other. His eye is quick and lively; but it
glances not from object to object, but from thought to thought. He is evidently a man occupied
with some train of fine and inward association. He regards the people about him no more than
the flies of a summer. He meditates the coming age. He hears and sees only what suits his purpose,
or some "foregone conclusion;" and looks out for facts and passing occurrences in order to
put them into his logical machinery and grind them into the dust and powder of some subtle
theory, as the miller looks out for grist to his mill! Add to this physiognomical sketch the
minor points of costume, the open shirt-collar, the single-breasted coat, the old-fashioned
half-boots and ribbed stockings; and you will find in Mr. Bentham's general appearance a singular
mixture of boyish simplicity and of the venerableness of age. In a word, our celebrated jurist
presents a striking illustration of the difference between the philosophical and the regal
look; that is, between the merely abstracted and the merely personal. There is a lackadaisical
bonhommie about his whole aspect, none of the fierceness of pride or power; an unconscious
neglect of his own person, instead of a stately assumption of superiority; a good-humoured,
placid intelligence, instead of a lynx-eyed watchfulness, as if it wished to make others its
prey, or was afraid they might turn and rend him; he is a beneficent spirit, prying into the
universe, not lording it over it; a thoughtful spectator of the scenes of life, or ruminator
on the fate of mankind, not a painted pageant, a stupid idol set up on its pedestal of pride
for men to fall down and worship with idiot fear and wonder at the thing themselves have made,
and which, without that fear and wonder, would in itself be nothing!

Mr. Bentham, perhaps, over-rates the importance of his own theories. He has been heard to say
(without any appearance of pride or affectation) that "he should like to live the remaining
years of his life, a year at a time at the end of the next six or eight centuries, to see the
effect which his writings would by that time have had upon the world." Alas! his name will
hardly live so long! Nor do we think, in point of fact, that Mr. Bentham has given any new
or decided impulse to the human mind. He cannot be looked upon in the light of a discoverer
in legislation or morals. He has not struck out any great leading principle or parent-truth,
from which a number of others might be deduced; nor has he enriched the common and established
stock of intelligence with original observations, like pearls thrown into wine. One truth discovered
is immortal, and entitles its author to be so: for, like a new substance in nature, it cannot
be destroyed. But Mr. Bentham's forte is arrangement; and the form of truth, though not its
essence, varies with time and circumstance. He has methodised, collated, and condensed all
the materials prepared to his hand on the subjects of which he treats, in a masterly and scientific
manner; but we should find a difficulty in adducing from his different works (however elaborate
or closely reasoned) any new element of thought, or even a new fact or illustration. His writings
are, therefore, chiefly valuable as books of reference, as bringing down the account of intellectual
inquiry to the present period, and disposing the results in a compendious, connected, and tangible
shape; but books of reference are chiefly serviceable for facilitating the acquisition of knowledge,
and are constantly liable to be superseded and to grow out of fashion with its progress, as
the scaffolding is thrown down as soon as the building is completed. Mr. Bentham is not the
first writer (by a great many) who has assumed the principle of UTILITY as the foundation of
just laws, and of all moral and political reasoning:--his merit is, that he has applied this
principle more closely and literally; that he has brought all the objections and arguments,
more distinctly labelled and ticketted, under this one head, and made a more constant and explicit
reference to it at every step of his progress, than any other writer. Perhaps the weak side
of his conclusions also is, that he has carried this single view of his subject too far, and
not made sufficient allowance for the varieties of human nature, and the caprices and irregularities
of the human will. "He has not allowed for the wind." It is not that you can be said to see
his favourite doctrine of Utility glittering everywhere through his system, like a vein of
rich, shining ore (that is not the nature of the material)--but it might be plausibly objected
that he had struck the whole mass of fancy, prejudice, passion, sense, whim, with his petrific,
leaden mace, that he had "bound volatile Hermes," and reduced the theory and practice of human
life to a caput mortuum of reason, and dull, plodding, technical calculation. The gentleman
is himself a capital logician; and he has been led by this circumstance to consider man as
a logical animal. We fear this view of the matter will hardly hold water. If we attend to the
moral man, the constitution of his mind will scarcely be found to be built up of pure reason
and a regard to consequences: if we consider the criminal man (with whom the legislator has
chiefly to do) it will be found to be still less so.

Every pleasure, says Mr. Bentham, is equally a good, and is to be taken into the account as
such in a moral estimate, whether it be the pleasure of sense or of conscience, whether it
arise from the exercise of virtue or the perpetration of crime. We are afraid the human mind
does not readily come into this doctrine, this ultima ratio philosophorum, interpreted according
to the letter. Our moral sentiments are made up of sympathies and antipathies, of sense and
imagination, of understanding and prejudice. The soul, by reason of its weakness, is an aggregating
and an exclusive principle; it clings obstinately to some things, and violently rejects others.
And it must do so, in a great measure, or it would act contrary to its own nature. It needs
helps and stages in its progress, and "all appliances and means to boot," which can raise it
to a partial conformity to truth and good (the utmost it is capable of) and bring it into a
tolerable harmony with the universe. By aiming at too much, by dismissing collateral aids,
by extending itself to the farthest verge of the conceivable and possible, it loses its elasticity
and vigour, its impulse and its direction. The moralist can no more do without the intermediate
use of rules and principles, without the 'vantage ground of habit, without the levers of the
understanding, than the mechanist can discard the use of wheels and pulleys, and perform every
thing by simple motion. If the mind of man were competent to comprehend the whole of truth
and good, and act upon it at once, and independently of all other considerations, Mr. Bentham's
plan would be a feasible one, and the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth would
be the best possible ground to place morality upon. But it is not so. In ascertaining the rules
of moral conduct, we must have regard not merely to the nature of the object, but to the capacity
of the agent, and to his fitness for apprehending or attaining it. Pleasure is that which is
so in itself: good is that which approves itself as such on reflection, or the idea of which
is a source of satisfaction. All pleasure is not, therefore (morally speaking) equally a good;
for all pleasure does not equally bear reflecting on. There are some tastes that are sweet
in the mouth and bitter in the belly; and there is a similar contradiction and anomaly in the
mind and heart of man. Again, what would become of the Posthaec meminisse juvabit of the poet,
if a principle of fluctuation and reaction is not inherent in the very constitution of our
nature, or if all moral truth is a mere literal truism? We are not, then, so much to inquire
what certain things are abstractedly or in themselves, as how they affect the mind, and to
approve or condemn them accordingly. The same object seen near strikes us more powerfully than
at a distance: things thrown into masses give a greater blow to the imagination than when scattered
and divided into their component parts. A number of mole-hills do not make a mountain, though
a mountain is actually made up of atoms: so moral truth must present itself under a certain
aspect and from a certain point of view, in order to produce its full and proper effect upon
the mind. The laws of the affections are as necessary as those of optics. A calculation of
consequences is no more equivalent to a sentiment, than a seriatim enumeration of square yards
or feet touches the fancy like the sight of the Alps or Andes!

To give an instance or two of what we mean. Those who on pure cosmopolite principles, or on
the ground of abstract humanity affect an extraordinary regard for the Turks and Tartars, have
been accused of neglecting their duties to their friends and next-door neighbours. Well, then,
what is the state of the question here? One human being is, no doubt, as much worth in himself,
independently of the circumstances of time or place, as another; but he is not of so much value
to us and our affections. Could our imagination take wing (with our speculative faculties)
to the other side of the globe or to the ends of the universe, could our eyes behold whatever
our reason teaches us to be possible, could our hands reach as far as our thoughts or wishes,
we might then busy ourselves to advantage with the Hottentots, or hold intimate converse with
the inhabitants of the Moon; but being as we are, our feelings evaporate in so large a space--we
must draw the circle of our affections and duties somewhat closer--the heart hovers and fixes
nearer home. It is true, the bands of private, or of local and natural affection are often,
nay in general, too tightly strained, so as frequently to do harm instead of good: but the
present question is whether we can, with safety and effect, be wholly emancipated from them?
Whether we should shake them off at pleasure and without mercy, as the only bar to the triumph
of truth and justice? Or whether benevolence, constructed upon a logical scale, would not be
merely nominal, whether duty, raised to too lofty a pitch of refinement, might not sink into
callous indifference or hollow selfishness? Again, is it not to exact too high a strain from
humanity, to ask us to qualify the degree of abhorrence we feel against a murderer by taking
into our cool consideration the pleasure he may have in committing the deed, and in the prospect
of gratifying his avarice or his revenge? We are hardly so formed as to sympathise at the same
moment with the assassin and his victim. The degree of pleasure the former may feel, instead
of extenuating, aggravates his guilt, and shews the depth of his malignity. Now the mind revolts
against this by mere natural antipathy, if it is itself well-disposed; or the slow process
of reason would afford but a feeble resistance to violence and wrong. The will, which is necessary
to give consistency and promptness to our good intentions, cannot extend so much candour and
courtesy to the antagonist principle of evil: virtue, to be sincere and practical, cannot be
divested entirely of the blindness and impetuosity of passion! It has been made a plea (half
jest, half earnest) for the horrors of war, that they promote trade and manufactures. It has
been said, as a set-off for the atrocities practised upon the negro slaves in the West Indies,
that without their blood and sweat, so many millions of people could not have sugar to sweeten
their tea. Fires and murders have been argued to be beneficial, as they serve to fill the newspapers,
and for a subject to talk of-- this is a sort of sophistry that it might be difficult to disprove
on the bare scheme of contingent utility; but on the ground that we have stated, it must pass
for a mere irony. What the proportion between the good and the evil will really be found in
any of the supposed cases, may be a question to the understanding; but to the imagination and
the heart, that is, to the natural feelings of mankind, it admits of none!

Mr. Bentham, in adjusting the provisions of a penal code, lays too little stress on the cooperation
of the natural prejudices of mankind, and the habitual feelings of that class of persons for
whom they are more particularly designed. Legislators (we mean writers on legislation) are
philosophers, and governed by their reason: criminals, for whose controul laws are made, are
a set of desperadoes, governed only by their passions. What wonder that so little progress
has been made towards a mutual understanding between the two parties! They are quite a different
species, and speak a different language, and are sadly at a loss for a common interpreter between
them. Perhaps the Ordinary of Newgate bids as fair for this office as any one. What should
Mr. Bentham, sitting at ease in his arm-chair, composing his mind before he begins to write
by a prelude on the organ, and looking out at a beautiful prospect when he is at a loss for
an idea, know of the principles of action of rogues, outlaws, and vagabonds? No more than Montaigne
of the motions of his cat! If sanguine and tender-hearted philanthropists have set on foot
an inquiry into the barbarity and the defects of penal laws, the practical improvements have
been mostly suggested by reformed cut-throats, turnkeys, and thief-takers. What even can the
Honourable House, who when the Speaker has pronounced the well-known, wished-for sounds "That
this house do now adjourn," retire, after voting a royal crusade or a loan of millions, to
lie on down, and feed on plate in spacious palaces, know of what passes in the hearts of wretches
in garrets and night-cellars, petty pilferers and marauders, who cut throats and pick pockets
with their own hands? The thing is impossible. The laws of the country are, therefore, ineffectual
and abortive, because they are made by the rich for the poor, by the wise for the ignorant,
by the respectable and exalted in station for the very scum and refuse of the community. If
Newgate would resolve itself into a committee of the whole Press-yard, with Jack Ketch at its
head, aided by confidential persons from the county prisons or the Hulks, and would make a
clear breast, some data might be found out to proceed upon; but as it is, the criminal mind
of the country is a book sealed, no one has been able to penetrate to the inside! Mr. Bentham,
in his attempts to revise and amend our criminal jurisprudence, proceeds entirely on his favourite
principle of Utility. Convince highwaymen and house-breakers that it will be for their interest
to reform, and they will reform and lead honest lives; according to Mr. Bentham. He says, "All
men act from calculation, even madmen reason." And, in our opinion, he might as well carry
this maxim to Bedlam or St. Luke's, and apply it to the inhabitants, as think to coerce or
overawe the inmates of a gaol, or those whose practices make them candidates for that distinction,
by the mere dry, detailed convictions of the understanding. Criminals are not to be influenced
by reason; for it is of the very essence of crime to disregard consequences both to ourselves
and others. You may as well preach philosophy to a drunken man, or to the dead, as to those
who are under the instigation of any mischievous passion. A man is a drunkard, and you tell
him he ought to be sober; he is debauched, and you ask him to reform; he is idle, and you recommend
industry to him as his wisest course; he gambles, and you remind him that he may be ruined
by this foible; he has lost his character, and you advise him to get into some reputable service
or lucrative situation; vice becomes a habit with him, and you request him to rouse himself
and shake it off; he is starving, and you warn him that if he breaks the law, he will be hanged.
None of this reasoning reaches the mark it aims at. The culprit, who violates and suffers the
vengeance of the laws, is not the dupe of ignorance, but the slave of passion, the victim of
habit or necessity. To argue with strong passion, with inveterate habit, with desperate circumstances,
is to talk to the winds. Clownish ignorance may indeed be dispelled, and taught better; but
it is seldom that a criminal is not aware of the consequences of his act, or has not made up
his mind to the alternative. They are, in general, too knowing by half. You tell a person of
this stamp what is his interest; he says he does not care about his interest, or the world
and he differ on that particular. But there is one point on which he must agree with them,
namely, what they think of his conduct, and that is the only hold you have of him. A man may
be callous and indifferent to what happens to himself; but he is never indifferent to public
opinion, or proof against open scorn and infamy. Shame, then, not fear, is the sheet-anchor
of the law. He who is not afraid of being pointed at as a thief, will not mind a month's hard
labour. He who is prepared to take the life of another, is already reckless of his own. But
every one makes a sorry figure in the pillory; and the being launched from the New Drop lowers
a man in his own opinion. The lawless and violent spirit, who is hurried by headstrong self-will
to break the laws, does not like to have the ground of pride and obstinacy struck from under
his feet. This is what gives the swells of the metropolis such a dread of the tread-mill--it
makes them ridiculous. It must be confessed, that this very circumstance renders the reform
of criminals nearly hopeless. It is the apprehension of being stigmatized by public opinion,
the fear of what will be thought and said of them, that deters men from the violation of the
laws, while their character remains unimpeached; but honour once lost, all is lost. The man
can never be himself again! A citizen is like a soldier, a part of a machine, who submits to
certain hardships, privations, and dangers, not for his own ease, pleasure, profit, or even
conscience, but--for shame. What is it that keeps the machine together in either case? Not
punishment or discipline, but sympathy. The soldier mounts the breach or stands in the trenches,
the peasant hedges and ditches, or the mechanic plies his ceaseless task, because the one will
not be called a coward, the other a rogue: but let the one turn deserter and the other vagabond,
and there is an end of him. The grinding law of necessity, which is no other than a name, a
breath, loses its force; he is no longer sustained by the good opinion of others, and he drops
out of his place in society, a useless clog! Mr. Bentham takes a culprit, and puts him into
what he calls a Panopticon, that is, a sort of circular prison, with open cells, like a glass
bee-hive. He sits in the middle, and sees all the other does. He gives him work to do, and
lectures him if he does not do it. He takes liquor from him, and society, and liberty; but
he feeds and clothes him, and keeps him out of mischief; and when he has convinced him, by
force and reason together, that this life is for his good, he turns him out upon the world
a reformed man, and as confident of the success of his handy-work, as the shoemaker of that
which he has just taken off the last, or the Parisian barber in Sterne, of the buckle of his
wig. "Dip it in the ocean," said the perruquier, "and it will stand!" But we doubt the durability
of our projector's patchwork. Will our convert to the great principle of Utility work when
he is from under Mr. Bentham's eye, because he was forced to work when under it? Will he keep
sober, because he has been kept from liquor so long? Will he not return to loose company, because
he has had the pleasure of sitting vis-a-vis with a philosopher of late? Will he not steal,
now that his hands are untied? Will he not take the road, now that it is free to him? Will
he not call his benefactor all the names he can set his tongue to, the moment his back is turned?
All this is more than to be feared. The charm of criminal life, like that of savage life, consists
in liberty, in hardship, in danger, and in the contempt of death, in one word, in extraordinary
excitement; and he who has tasted of it, will no more return to regular habits of life, than
a man will take to water after drinking brandy, or than a wild beast will give over hunting
its prey. Miracles never cease, to be sure; but they are not to be had wholesale, or to order.
Mr. Owen, who is another of these proprietors and patentees of reform, has lately got an American
savage with him, whom he carries about in great triumph and complacency, as an antithesis to
his New View of Society, and as winding up his reasoning to what it mainly wanted, an epigrammatic
point. Does the benevolent visionary of the Lanark cotton-mills really think this natural man
will act as a foil to his artificial man? Does he for a moment imagine that his Address to
the higher and middle classes, with all its advantages of fiction, makes any thing like so
interesting a romance as Hunter's Captivity among the North American Indians? Has he any thing
to shew, in all the apparatus of New Lanark and its desolate monotony, to excite the thrill
of imagination like the blankets made of wreaths of snow under which the wild wood-rovers bury
themselves for weeks in winter? Or the skin of a leopard, which our hardy adventurer slew,
and which served him for great coat and bedding? Or the rattle-snake that he found by his side
as a bedfellow? Or his rolling himself into a ball to escape from him? Or his suddenly placing
himself against a tree to avoid being trampled to death by the herd of wild buffaloes, that
came rushing on like the sound of thunder? Or his account of the huge spiders that prey on
bluebottles and gilded flies in green pathless forests; or of the great Pacific Ocean, that
the natives look upon as the gulf that parts time from eternity, and that is to waft them to
the spirits of their fathers? After all this, Mr. Hunter must find Mr. Owen and his parallellograms
trite and flat, and will, we suspect, take an opportunity to escape from them!

Mr. Bentham's method of reasoning, though comprehensive and exact, labours under the defect
of most systems--it is too topical. It includes every thing; but it includes every thing alike.
It is rather like an inventory, than a valuation of different arguments. Every possible suggestion
finds a place, so that the mind is distracted as much as enlightened by this perplexing accuracy.
The exceptions seem as important as the rule. By attending to the minute, we overlook the great;
and in summing up an account, it will not do merely to insist on the number of items without
considering their amount. Our author's page presents a very nicely dove-tailed mosaic pavement
of legal common-places. We slip and slide over its even surface without being arrested any
where. Or his view of the human mind resembles a map, rather than a picture: the outline, the
disposition is correct, but it wants colouring and relief. There is a technicality of manner,
which renders his writings of more value to the professional inquirer than to the general reader.
Again, his style is unpopular, not to say unintelligible. He writes a language of his own,
that darkens knowledge. His works have been translated into French--they ought to be translated
into English. People wonder that Mr. Bentham has not been prosecuted for the boldness and severity
of some of his invectives. He might wrap up high treason in one of his inextricable periods,
and it would never find its way into Westminster-Hall. He is a kind of Manuscript author--he
writes a cypher-hand, which the vulgar have no key to. The construction of his sentences is
a curious framework with pegs and hooks to hang his thoughts upon, for his own use and guidance,
but almost out of the reach of every body else. It is a barbarous philosophical jargon, with
all the repetitions, parentheses, formalities, uncouth nomenclature and verbiage of law-Latin;
and what makes it worse, it is not mere verbiage, but has a great deal of acuteness and meaning
in it, which you would be glad to pick out if you could. In short, Mr. Bentham writes as if
he was allowed but a single sentence to express his whole view of a subject in, and as if,
should he omit a single circumstance or step of the argument, it would be lost to the world
for ever, like an estate by a flaw in the title-deeds. This is over-rating the importance of
our own discoveries, and mistaking the nature and object of language altogether. Mr. Bentham
has acquired this disability--it is not natural to him. His admirable little work On Usury,
published forty years ago, is clear, easy, and vigorous. But Mr. Bentham has shut himself up
since then "in nook monastic," conversing only with followers of his own, or with "men of Ind,"
and has endeavoured to overlay his natural humour, sense, spirit, and style with the dust and
cobwebs of an obscure solitude. The best of it is, he thinks his present mode of expressing
himself perfect, and that whatever may be objected to his law or logic, no one can find the
least fault with the purity, simplicity, and perspicuity of his style.

Mr. Bentham, in private life, is an amiable and exemplary character. He is a little romantic,
or so; and has dissipated part of a handsome fortune in practical speculations. He lends an
ear to plausible projectors, and, if he cannot prove them to be wrong in their premises or
their conclusions, thinks himself bound in reason to stake his money on the venture. Strict
logicians are licensed visionaries. Mr. Bentham is half-brother to the late Mr. Speaker Abbott[A]--Proh
pudor! He was educated at Eton, and still takes our novices to task about a passage in Homer,
or a metre in Virgil. He was afterwards at the University, and he has described the scruples
of an ingenuous youthful mind about subscribing the articles, in a passage in his Church-of-Englandism,
which smacks of truth and honour both, and does one good to read it in an age, when "to be
honest" (or not to laugh at the very idea of honesty) "is to be one man picked out of ten thousand!"
Mr. Bentham relieves his mind sometimes, after the fatigue of study, by playing on a fine old
organ, and has a relish for Hogarth's prints. He turns wooden utensils in a lathe for exercise,
and fancies he can turn men in the same manner. He has no great fondness for poetry, and can
hardly extract a moral out of Shakespear. His house is warmed and lighted by steam. He is one
of those who prefer the artificial to the natural in most things, and think the mind of man
omnipotent. He has a great contempt for out-of-door prospects, for green fields and trees,
and is for referring every thing to Utility. There is a little narrowness in this; for if all
the sources of satisfaction are taken away, what is to become of utility itself? It is, indeed,
the great fault of this able and extraordinary man, that he has concentrated his faculties
and feelings too entirely on one subject and pursuit, and has not "looked enough abroad into
universality."[B]

[Footnote A: Now Lord Colchester.]

[Footnote B: Lord Bacon's Advancement of Learning.]

       *       *       *       *       *

WILLIAM GODWIN

The Spirit of the Age was never more fully-shewn than in its treatment of this writer--its
love of paradox and change, its dastard submission to prejudice and to the fashion of the day.
Five-and-twenty years ago he was in the very zenith of a sultry and unwholesome popularity;
he blazed as a sun in the firmament of reputation; no one was more talked of, more looked up
to, more sought after, and wherever liberty, truth, justice was the theme, his name was not
far off:--now he has sunk below the horizon, and enjoys the serene twilight of a doubtful immortality.
Mr. Godwin, during his lifetime, has secured to himself the triumphs and the mortifications
of an extreme notoriety and of a sort of posthumous fame.

His bark, after being tossed in the revolutionary tempest, now raised to heaven by all the
fury of popular breath, now almost dashed in pieces, and buried in the quicksands of ignorance,
or scorched with the lightning of momentary indignation, at length floats on the calm wave
that is to bear it down the stream of time. Mr. Godwin's person is not known, he is not pointed
out in the street, his conversation is not courted, his opinions are not asked, he is at the
head of no cabal, he belongs to no party in the State, he has no train of admirers, no one
thinks it worth his while even to traduce and vilify him, he has scarcely friend or foe, the
world make a point (as Goldsmith used to say) of taking no more notice of him than if such
an individual had never existed; he is to all ordinary intents and purposes dead and buried;
but the author of Political Justice and of Caleb Williams can never die, his name is an abstraction
in letters, his works are standard in the history of intellect. He is thought of now like any
eminent writer a hundred-and-fifty years ago, or just as he will be a hundred-and-fifty years
hence. He knows this, and smiles in silent mockery of himself, reposing on the monument of
his fame--

  "Sedet, in eternumque sedebit infelix Theseus."

No work in our time gave such a blow to the philosophical mind of the country as the celebrated
Enquiry concerning Political Justice. Tom Paine was considered for the time as a Tom Fool to
him; Paley an old woman; Edmund Burke a flashy sophist. Truth, moral truth, it was supposed,
had here taken up its abode; and these were the oracles of thought. "Throw aside your books
of chemistry," said Wordsworth to a young man, a student in the Temple, "and read Godwin on
Necessity." Sad necessity! Fatal reverse! Is truth then so variable? Is it one thing at twenty,
and another at forty? Is it at a burning heat in 1793, and below zero in 1814? Not so, in the
name of manhood and of common sense! Let us pause here a little.--Mr. Godwin indulged in extreme
opinions, and carried with him all the most sanguine and fearless understandings of the time.
What then? Because those opinions were overcharged, were they therefore altogether groundless?
Is the very God of our idolatry all of a sudden to become an abomination and an anathema? Could
so many young men of talent, of education, and of principle have been hurried away by what
had neither truth, nor nature, not one particle of honest feeling nor the least shew of reason
in it? Is the Modern Philosophy (as it has been called) at one moment a youthful bride, and
the next a withered beldame, like the false Duessa in Spenser? Or is the vaunted edifice of
Reason, like his House of Pride, gorgeous in front, and dazzling to approach, while "its hinder
parts are ruinous, decayed, and old?" Has the main prop, which supported the mighty fabric,
been shaken and given way under the strong grasp of some Samson; or has it not rather been
undermined by rats and vermin? At one time, it almost seemed, that "if this failed,

  "The pillar'd firmament was rottenness,
  And earth's base built of stubble:"

now scarce a shadow of it remains, it is crumbled to dust, nor is it even talked of! "What
then, went ye forth for to see, a reed shaken with the wind?" Was it for this that our young
gownsmen of the greatest expectation and promise, versed in classic lore, steeped in dialectics,
armed at all points for the foe, well read, well nurtured, well provided for, left the University
and the prospect of lawn sleeves, tearing asunder the shackles of the free born spirit, and
the cobwebs of school-divinity, to throw themselves at the feet of the new Gamaliel, and learn
wisdom from him? Was it for this, that students at the bar, acute, inquisitive, sceptical (here
only wild enthusiasts) neglected for a while the paths of preferment and the law as too narrow,
tortuous, and unseemly to bear the pure and broad light of reason? Was it for this, that students
in medicine missed their way to Lecturerships and the top of their profession, deeming lightly
of the health of the body, and dreaming only of the renovation of society and the march of
mind? Was it to this that Mr. Southey's Inscriptions pointed? to this that Mr. Coleridge's
Religious Musings tended? Was it for this, that Mr. Godwin himself sat with arms folded, and,
"like Cato, gave his little senate laws?" Or rather, like another Prospero, uttered syllables
that with their enchanted breath were to change the world, and might almost stop the stars
in their courses? Oh! and is all forgot? Is this sun of intellect blotted from the sky? Or
has it suffered total eclipse? Or is it we who make the fancied gloom, by looking at it through
the paltry, broken, stained fragments of our own interests and prejudices? Were we fools then,
or are we dishonest now? Or was the impulse of the mind less likely to be true and sound when
it arose from high thought and warm feeling, than afterwards, when it was warped and debased
by the example, the vices, and follies of the world?

The fault, then, of Mr. Godwin's philosophy, in one word, was too much ambition--"by that sin
fell the angels!" He conceived too nobly of his fellows (the most unpardonable crime against
them, for there is nothing that annoys our self-love so much as being complimented on imaginary
achievements, to which we are wholly unequal)--he raised the standard of morality above the
reach of humanity, and by directing virtue to the most airy and romantic heights, made her
path dangerous, solitary, and impracticable. The author of the Political Justice took abstract
reason for the rule of conduct, and abstract good for its end. He places the human mind on
an elevation, from which it commands a view of the whole line of moral consequences; and requires
it to conform its acts to the larger and more enlightened conscience which it has thus acquired.
He absolves man from the gross and narrow ties of sense, custom, authority, private and local
attachment, in order that he may devote himself to the boundless pursuit of universal benevolence.
Mr. Godwin gives no quarter to the amiable weaknesses of our nature, nor does he stoop to avail
himself of the supplementary aids of an imperfect virtue. Gratitude, promises, friendship,
family affection give way, not that they may be merged in the opposite vices or in want of
principle; but that the void may be filled up by the disinterested love of good, and the dictates
of inflexible justice, which is "the law of laws, and sovereign of sovereigns." All minor considerations
yield, in his system, to the stern sense of duty, as they do, in the ordinary and established
ones, to the voice of necessity. Mr. Godwin's theory and that of more approved reasoners differ
only in this, that what are with them the exceptions, the extreme cases, he makes the every-day
rule. No one denies that on great occasions, in moments of fearful excitement, or when a mighty
object is at stake, the lesser and merely instrumental points of duty are to be sacrificed
without remorse at the shrine of patriotism, of honour, and of conscience. But the disciple
of the New School (no wonder it found so many impugners, even in its own bosom!) is to be always
the hero of duty; the law to which he has bound himself never swerves nor relaxes; his feeling
of what is right is to be at all times wrought up to a pitch of enthusiastic self-devotion;
he must become the unshrinking martyr and confessor of the public good. If it be said that
this scheme is chimerical and impracticable on ordinary occasions, and to the generality of
mankind, well and good; but those who accuse the author of having trampled on the common feelings
and prejudices of mankind in wantonness or insult, or without wishing to substitute something
better (and only unattainable, because it is better) in their stead, accuse him wrongfully.
We may not be able to launch the bark of our affections on the ocean-tide of humanity, we may
be forced to paddle along its shores, or shelter in its creeks and rivulets: but we have no
right to reproach the bold and adventurous pilot, who dared us to tempt the uncertain abyss,
with our own want of courage or of skill, or with the jealousies and impatience, which deter
us from undertaking, or might prevent us from accomplishing the voyage!

The Enquiry concerning Political Justice (it was urged by its favourers and defenders at the
time, and may still be so, without either profaneness or levity) is a metaphysical and logical
commentary on some of the most beautiful and striking texts of Scripture. Mr. Godwin is a mixture
of the Stoic and of the Christian philosopher. To break the force of the vulgar objections
and outcry that have been raised against the Modern Philosophy, as if it were a new and monstrous
birth in morals, it may be worth noticing, that volumes of sermons have been written to excuse
the founder of Christianity for not including friendship and private affection among its golden
rules, but rather excluding them.[A] Moreover, the answer to the question, "Who is thy neighbour?"
added to the divine precept, "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself," is the same as in
the exploded pages of our author,--"He to whom we can do most good." In determining this point,
we were not to be influenced by any extrinsic or collateral considerations, by our own predilections,
or the expectations of others, by our obligations to them or any services they might be able
to render us, by the climate they were born in, by the house they lived in, by rank or religion,
or party, or personal ties, but by the abstract merits, the pure and unbiassed justice of the
case. The artificial helps and checks to moral conduct were set aside as spurious and unnecessary,
and we came at once to the grand and simple question--"In what manner we could best contribute
to the greatest possible good?" This was the paramount obligation in all cases whatever, from
which we had no right to free ourselves upon any idle or formal pretext, and of which each
person was to judge for himself, under the infallible authority of his own opinion and the
inviolable sanction of his self-approbation. "There was the rub that made philosophy of so
short life!" Mr. Godwin's definition of morals was the same as the admired one of law, reason
without passion; but with the unlimited scope of private opinion, and in a boundless field
of speculation (for nothing less would satisfy the pretensions of the New School), there was
danger that the unseasoned novice might substitute some pragmatical conceit of his own for
the rule of right reason, and mistake a heartless indifference for a superiority to more natural
and generous feelings. Our ardent and dauntless reformer followed out the moral of the parable
of the Good Samaritan into its most rigid and repulsive consequences with a pen of steel, and
let fall his "trenchant blade" on every vulnerable point of human infirmity; but there is a
want in his system of the mild and persuasive tone of the Gospel, where "all is conscience
and tender heart." Man was indeed screwed up, by mood and figure, into a logical machine, that
was to forward the public good with the utmost punctuality and effect, and it might go very
well on smooth ground and under favourable circumstances; but would it work up-hill or against
the grain? It was to be feared that the proud Temple of Reason, which at a distance and in
stately supposition shone like the palaces of the New Jerusalem, might (when placed on actual
ground) be broken up into the sordid styes of sensuality, and the petty huckster's shops of
self-interest! Every man (it was proposed--"so ran the tenour of the bond") was to be a Regulus,
a Codrus, a Cato, or a Brutus--every woman a Mother of the Gracchi.

  "------------It was well said,
  And 'tis a kind of good deed to say well."

But heroes on paper might degenerate into vagabonds in practice, Corinnas into courtezans.
Thus a refined and permanent individual attachment is intended to supply the place and avoid
the inconveniences of marriage; but vows of eternal constancy, without church security, are
found to be fragile. A member of the ideal and perfect commonwealth of letters lends another
a hundred pounds for immediate and pressing use; and when he applies for it again, the borrower
has still more need of it than he, and retains it for his own especial, which is tantamount
to the public good. The Exchequer of pure reason, like that of the State, never refunds. The
political as well as the religious fanatic appeals from the over-weening opinion and claims
of others to the highest and most impartial tribunal, namely, his own breast. Two persons agree
to live together in Chambers on principles of pure equality and mutual assistance--but when
it comes to the push, one of them finds that the other always insists on his fetching water
from the pump in Hare-court, and cleaning his shoes for him. A modest assurance was not the
least indispensable virtue in the new perfectibility code; and it was hence discovered to be
a scheme, like other schemes where there are all prizes and no blanks, for the accommodation
of the enterprizing and cunning, at the expence of the credulous and honest. This broke up
the system, and left no good odour behind it! Reason has become a sort of bye-word, and philosophy
has "fallen first into a fasting, then into a sadness, then into a decline, and last, into
the dissolution of which we all complain!" This is a worse error than the former: we may be
said to have "lost the immortal part of ourselves, and what remains is beastly!" The point
of view from which this matter may be fairly considered, is two-fold, and may be stated thus:--In
the first place, it by no means follows, because reason is found not to be the only infallible
or safe rule of conduct, that it is no rule at all; or that we are to discard it altogether
with derision and ignominy. On the contrary, if not the sole, it is the principal ground of
action; it is "the guide, the stay and anchor of our purest thoughts, and soul of all our moral
being." In proportion as we strengthen and expand this principle, and bring our affections
and subordinate, but perhaps more powerful motives of action into harmony with it, it will
not admit of a doubt that we advance to the goal of perfection, and answer the ends of our
creation, those ends which not only morality enjoins, but which religion sanctions. If with
the utmost stretch of reason, man cannot (as some seemed inclined to suppose) soar up to the
God, and quit the ground of human frailty, yet, stripped wholly of it, he sinks at once into
the brute. If it cannot stand alone, in its naked simplicity, but requires other props to buttress
it up, or ornaments to set it off; yet without it the moral structure would fall flat and dishonoured
to the ground. Private reason is that which raises the individual above his mere animal instincts,
appetites and passions: public reason in its gradual progress separates the savage from the
civilized state. Without the one, men would resemble wild beasts in their dens; without the
other, they would be speedily converted into hordes of barbarians or banditti. Sir Walter Scott,
in his zeal to restore the spirit of loyalty, of passive obedience and non-resistance as an
acknowledgment for his having been created a Baronet by a Prince of the House of Brunswick,
may think it a fine thing to return in imagination to the good old times, "when in Auvergne
alone, there were three hundred nobles whose most ordinary actions were robbery, rape, and
murder," when the castle of each Norman baron was a strong hold from which the lordly proprietor
issued to oppress and plunder the neighbouring districts, and when the Saxon peasantry were
treated by their gay and gallant tyrants as a herd of loathsome swine--but for our own parts
we beg to be excused; we had rather live in the same age with the author of Waverley and Blackwood's
Magazine. Reason is the meter and alnager in civil intercourse, by which each person's upstart
and contradictory pretensions are weighed and approved or found wanting, and without which
it could not subsist, any more than traffic or the exchange of commodities could be carried
on without weights and measures. It is the medium of knowledge, and the polisher of manners,
by creating common interests and ideas. Or in the words of a contemporary writer, "Reason is
the queen of the moral world, the soul of the universe, the lamp of human life, the pillar
of society, the foundation of law, the beacon of nations, the golden chain let down from heaven,
which links all accountable and all intelligent natures in one common system--and in the vain
strife between fanatic innovation and fanatic prejudice, we are exhorted to dethrone this queen
of the world, to blot out this light of the mind, to deface this fair column, to break in pieces
this golden chain! We are to discard and throw from us with loud taunts and bitter execrations
that reason, which has been the lofty theme of the philosopher, the poet, the moralist, and
the divine, whose name was not first named to be abused by the enthusiasts of the French Revolution,
or to be blasphemed by the madder enthusiasts, the advocates of Divine Right, but which is
coeval with, and inseparable from the nature and faculties of man--is the image of his Maker
stamped upon him at his birth, the understanding breathed into him with the breath of life,
and in the participation and improvement of which alone he is raised above the brute creation
and his own physical nature!"--The overstrained and ridiculous pretensions of monks and ascetics
were never thought to justify a return to unbridled licence of manners, or the throwing aside
of all decency. The hypocrisy, cruelty, and fanaticism, often attendant on peculiar professions
of sanctity, have not banished the name of religion from the world. Neither can "the unreasonableness
of the reason" of some modern sciolists "so unreason our reason," as to debar us of the benefit
of this principle in future, or to disfranchise us of the highest privilege of our nature.
In the second place, if it is admitted that Reason alone is not the sole and self-sufficient
ground of morals, it is to Mr. Godwin that we are indebted for having settled the point. No
one denied or distrusted this principle (before his time) as the absolute judge and interpreter
in all questions of difficulty; and if this is no longer the case, it is because he has taken
this principle, and followed it into its remotest consequences with more keenness of eye and
steadiness of hand than any other expounder of ethics. His grand work is (at least) an experimentum
crucis to shew the weak sides and imperfections of human reason as the sole law of human action.
By overshooting the mark, or by "flying an eagle flight, forth and right on," he has pointed
out the limit or line of separation, between what is practicable and what is barely conceivable--by
imposing impossible tasks on the naked strength of the will, he has discovered how far it is
or is not in our power to dispense with the illusions of sense, to resist the calls of affection,
to emancipate ourselves from the force of habit; and thus, though he has not said it himself,
has enabled others to say to the towering aspirations after good, and to the over-bearing pride
of human intellect--"Thus far shalt thou come, and no farther!" Captain Parry would be thought
to have rendered a service to navigation and his country, no less by proving that there is
no North-West Passage, than if he had ascertained that there is one: so Mr. Godwin has rendered
an essential service to moral science, by attempting (in vain) to pass the Arctic Circle and
Frozen Regions, where the understanding is no longer warmed by the affections, nor fanned by
the breeze of fancy! This is the effect of all bold, original, and powerful thinking, that
it either discovers the truth, or detects where error lies; and the only crime with which Mr.
Godwin can be charged as a political and moral reasoner is, that he has displayed a more ardent
spirit, and a more independent activity of thought than others, in establishing the fallacy
(if fallacy it be) of an old popular prejudice that the Just and True were one, by "championing
it to the Outrance," and in the final result placing the Gothic structure of human virtue on
an humbler, but a wider and safer foundation than it had hitherto occupied in the volumes and
systems of the learned. Mr. Godwin is an inventor in the regions of romance, as well as a skilful
and hardy explorer of those of moral truth. Caleb Williams and St. Leon are two of the most
splendid and impressive works of the imagination that have appeared in our times. It is not
merely that these novels are very well for a philosopher to have produced--they are admirable
and complete in themselves, and would not lead you to suppose that the author, who is so entirely
at home in human character and dramatic situation, had ever dabbled in logic or metaphysics.
The first of these, particularly, is a master-piece, both as to invention and execution. The
romantic and chivalrous principle of the love of personal fame is embodied in the finest possible
manner in the character of Falkland;[B] as in Caleb Williams (who is not the first, but the
second character in the piece) we see the very demon of curiosity personified. Perhaps the
art with which these two characters are contrived to relieve and set off each other, has never
been surpassed in any work of fiction, with the exception of the immortal satire of Cervantes.
The restless and inquisitive spirit of Caleb Williams, in search and in possession of his patron's
fatal secret, haunts the latter like a second conscience, plants stings in his tortured mind,
fans the flame of his jealous ambition, struggling with agonized remorse; and the hapless but
noble-minded Falkland at length falls a martyr to the persecution of that morbid and overpowering
interest, of which his mingled virtues and vices have rendered him the object. We conceive
no one ever began Caleb Williams that did not read it through: no one that ever read it could
possibly forget it, or speak of it after any length of time, but with an impression as if the
events and feelings had been personal to himself. This is the case also with the story of St.
Leon, which, with less dramatic interest and intensity of purpose, is set off by a more gorgeous
and flowing eloquence, and by a crown of preternatural imagery, that waves over it like a palm-tree!
It is the beauty and the charm of Mr. Godwin's descriptions that the reader identifies himself
with the author; and the secret of this is, that the author has identified himself with his
personages. Indeed, he has created them. They are the proper issue of his brain, lawfully begot,
not foundlings, nor the "bastards of his art." He is not an indifferent, callous spectator
of the scenes which he himself pourtrays, but without seeming to feel them. There is no look
of patch-work and plagiarism, the beggarly copiousness of borrowed wealth; no tracery-work
from worm-eaten manuscripts, from forgotten chronicles, nor piecing out of vague traditions
with fragments and snatches of old ballads, so that the result resembles a gaudy, staring transparency,
in which you cannot distinguish the daubing of the painter from the light that shines through
the flimsy colours and gives them brilliancy. Here all is clearly made out with strokes of
the pencil, by fair, not by factitious means. Our author takes a given subject from nature
or from books, and then fills it up with the ardent workings of his own mind, with the teeming
and audible pulses of his own heart. The effect is entire and satisfactory in proportion. The
work (so to speak) and the author are one. We are not puzzled to decide upon their respective
pretensions. In reading Mr. Godwin's novels, we know what share of merit the author has in
them. In reading the Scotch Novels, we are perpetually embarrassed in asking ourselves this
question; and perhaps it is not altogether a false modesty that prevents the editor from putting
his name in the title-page--he is (for any thing we know to the contrary) only a more voluminous
sort of Allen-a-Dale. At least, we may claim this advantage for the English author, that the
chains with which he rivets our attention are forged out of his own thoughts, link by link,
blow for blow, with glowing enthusiasm: we see the genuine ore melted in the furnace of fervid
feeling, and moulded into stately and ideal forms; and this is so far better than peeping into
an old iron shop, or pilfering from a dealer in marine stores! There is one drawback, however,
attending this mode of proceeding, which attaches generally, indeed, to all originality of
composition; namely, that it has a tendency to a certain degree of monotony. He who draws upon
his own resources, easily comes to an end of his wealth. Mr. Godwin, in all his writings, dwells
upon one idea or exclusive view of a subject, aggrandises a sentiment, exaggerates a character,
or pushes an argument to extremes, and makes up by the force of style and continuity of feeling
for what he wants in variety of incident or ease of manner. This necessary defect is observable
in his best works, and is still more so in Fleetwood and Mandeville; the one of which, compared
with his more admired performances, is mawkish, and the other morbid. Mr. Godwin is also an
essayist, an historian--in short, what is he not, that belongs to the character of an indefatigable
and accomplished author? His Life of Chaucer would have given celebrity to any man of letters
possessed of three thousand a year, with leisure to write quartos: as the legal acuteness displayed
in his Remarks on Judge Eyre's Charge to the Jury would have raised any briefless barrister
to the height of his profession. This temporary effusion did more--it gave a turn to the trials
for high treason in the year 1794, and possibly saved the lives of twelve innocent individuals,
marked out as political victims to the Moloch of Legitimacy, which then skulked behind a British
throne, and had not yet dared to stalk forth (as it has done since) from its lurking-place,
in the face of day, to brave the opinion of the world. If it had then glutted its maw with
its intended prey (the sharpness of Mr. Godwin's pen cut the legal cords with which it was
attempted to bind them), it might have done so sooner, and with more lasting effect. The world
do not know (and we are not sure but the intelligence may startle Mr. Godwin himself), that
he is the author of a volume of Sermons, and of a Life of Chatham.[C]

Mr. Fawcett (an old friend and fellow-student of our author, and who always spoke of his writings
with admiration, tinctured with wonder) used to mention a circumstance with respect to the
last-mentioned work, which may throw some light on the history and progress of Mr. Godwin's
mind. He was anxious to make his biographical account as complete as he could, and applied
for this purpose to many of his acquaintance to furnish him with anecdotes or to suggest criticisms.
Amongst others Mr. Fawcett repeated to him what he thought a striking passage in a speech on
General Warrants delivered by Lord Chatham, at which he (Mr. Fawcett) had been present. "Every
man's house" (said this emphatic thinker and speaker) "has been called his castle. And why
is it called his castle? Is it because it is defended by a wall, because it is surrounded with
a moat? No, it may be nothing more than a straw-built shed. It may be open to all the elements:
the wind may enter in, the rain may enter in--but the king cannot enter in!" His friend thought
that the point was here palpable enough: but when he came to read the printed volume, he found
it thus transposed: "Every man's house is his castle. And why is it called so? Is it because
it is defended by a wall, because it is surrounded with a moat? No, it may be nothing more
than a straw-built shed. It may be exposed to all the elements: the rain may enter into it,
all the winds of Heaven may whistle round it, but the king cannot, &c." This was what Fawcett
called a defect of natural imagination. He at the same time admitted that Mr. Godwin had improved
his native sterility in this respect; or atoned for it by incessant activity of mind and by
accumulated stores of thought and powers of language. In fact, his forte is not the spontaneous,
but the voluntary exercise of talent. He fixes his ambition on a high point of excellence,
and spares no pains or time in attaining it. He has less of the appearance of a man of genius,
than any one who has given such decided and ample proofs of it. He is ready only on reflection:
dangerous only at the rebound. He gathers himself up, and strains every nerve and faculty with
deliberate aim to some heroic and dazzling atchievement of intellect: but he must make a career
before he flings himself, armed, upon the enemy, or he is sure to be unhorsed. Or he resembles
an eight-day clock that must be wound up long before it can strike. Therefore, his powers of
conversation are but limited. He has neither acuteness of remark, nor a flow of language, both
which might be expected from his writings, as these are no less distinguished by a sustained
and impassioned tone of declamation than by novelty of opinion or brilliant tracks of invention.
In company, Horne Tooke used to make a mere child of him--or of any man! Mr. Godwin liked this
treatment[D], and indeed it is his foible to fawn on those who use him cavalierly, and to be
cavalier to those who express an undue or unqualified admiration of him. He looks up with unfeigned
respect to acknowledged reputation (but then it must be very well ascertained before he admits
it)--and has a favourite hypothesis that Understanding and Virtue are the same thing. Mr. Godwin
possesses a high degree of philosophical candour, and studiously paid the homage of his pen
and person to Mr. Malthus, Sir James Macintosh, and Dr. Parr, for their unsparing attacks on
him; but woe to any poor devil who had the hardihood to defend him against them! In private,
the author of Political Justice at one time reminded those who knew him of the metaphysician
engrafted on the Dissenting Minister. There was a dictatorial, captious, quibbling pettiness
of manner. He lost this with the first blush and awkwardness of popularity, which surprised
him in the retirement of his study; and he has since, with the wear and tear of society, from
being too pragmatical, become somewhat too careless. He is, at present, as easy as an old glove.
Perhaps there is a little attention to effect in this, and he wishes to appear a foil to himself.
His best moments are with an intimate acquaintance or two, when he gossips in a fine vein about
old authors, Clarendon's History of the Rebellion, or Burnet's History of his own Times; and
you perceive by your host's talk, as by the taste of seasoned wine, that he has a cellarage
in his understanding! Mr. Godwin also has a correct acquired taste in poetry and the drama.
He relishes Donne and Ben Jonson, and recites a passage from either with an agreeable mixture
of pedantry and bonhommie. He is not one of those who do not grow wiser with opportunity and
reflection: he changes his opinions, and changes them for the better. In common company, Mr.
Godwin either goes to sleep himself, or sets others to sleep. He is at present engaged in a
History of the Commonwealth of England.--Esto perpetua! In size Mr. Godwin is below the common
stature, nor is his deportment graceful or animated. His face is, however, fine, with an expression
of placid temper and recondite thought. He is not unlike the common portraits of Locke. There
is a very admirable likeness of him by Mr. Northcote, which with a more heroic and dignified
air, only does justice to the profound sagacity and benevolent aspirations of our author's
mind. Mr. Godwin has kept the best company of his time, but he has survived most of the celebrated
persons with whom he lived in habits of intimacy. He speaks of them with enthusiasm and with
discrimination; and sometimes dwells with peculiar delight on a day passed at John Kemble's
in company with Mr. Sheridan, Mr. Curran, Mrs. Wolstonecraft and Mrs. Inchbald, when the conversation
took a most animated turn and the subject was of Love. Of all these our author is the only
one remaining. Frail tenure, on which human life and genius are lent us for a while to improve
or to enjoy!

[Footnote A: Shaftesbury made this an objection to Christianity, which was answered by Foster,
Leland, and other eminent divines, on the ground that Christianity had a higher object in view,
namely, general philanthropy.]

[Footnote B: Mr. Fuseli used to object to this striking delineation a want of historical correctness,
inasmuch as the animating principle of the true chivalrous character was the sense of honour,
not the mere regard to, or saving of, appearances. This, we think, must be an hypercriticism,
from all we remember of books of chivalry and heroes of romance.]

[Footnote C: We had forgotten the tragedies of Antonio and Ferdinand. Peace be with their manes!]

[Footnote D: To be sure, it was redeemed by a high respect, and by some magnificent compliments.

No two persons can be conceived more opposite in character or genius than the subject of the
present and of the preceding sketch. Mr. Godwin, with less natural capacity, and with fewer
acquired advantages, by concentrating his mind on some given object, and doing what he had
to do with all his might, has accomplished much, and will leave more than one monument of a
powerful intellect behind him; Mr. Coleridge, by dissipating his, and dallying with every subject
by turns, has done little or nothing to justify to the world or to posterity, the high opinion
which all who have ever heard him converse, or known him intimately, with one accord entertain
of him. Mr. Godwin's faculties have kept house, and plied their task in the work-shop of the
brain, diligently and effectually: Mr. Coleridge's have gossipped away their time, and gadded
about from house to house, as if life's business were to melt the hours in listless talk. Mr.
Godwin is intent on a subject, only as it concerns himself and his reputation; he works it
out as a matter of duty, and discards from his mind whatever does not forward his main object
as impertinent and vain. Mr. Coleridge, on the other hand, delights in nothing but episodes
and digressions, neglects whatever he undertakes to perform, and can act only on spontaneous
impulses, without object or method. "He cannot be constrained by mastery." While he should
be occupied with a given pursuit, he is thinking of a thousand other things; a thousand tastes,
a thousand objects tempt him, and distract his mind, which keeps open house, and entertains
all comers; and after being fatigued and amused with morning calls from idle visitors, finds
the day consumed and its business unconcluded. Mr. Godwin, on the contrary, is somewhat exclusive
and unsocial in his habits of mind, entertains no company but what he gives his whole time
and attention to, and wisely writes over the doors of his understanding, his fancy, and his
senses--"No admittance except on business." He has none of that fastidious refinement and false
delicacy, which might lead him to balance between the endless variety of modern attainments.
He does not throw away his life (nor a single half-hour of it) in adjusting the claims of different
accomplishments, and in choosing between them or making himself master of them all. He sets
about his task, (whatever it may be) and goes through it with spirit and fortitude. He has
the happiness to think an author the greatest character in the world, and himself the greatest
author in it. Mr. Coleridge, in writing an harmonious stanza, would stop to consider whether
there was not more grace and beauty in a Pas de trois, and would not proceed till he had resolved
this question by a chain of metaphysical reasoning without end. Not so Mr. Godwin. That is
best to him, which he can do best. He does not waste himself in vain aspirations and effeminate
sympathies. He is blind, deaf, insensible to all but the trump of Fame. Plays, operas, painting,
music, ball-rooms, wealth, fashion, titles, lords, ladies, touch him not--all these are no
more to him than to the magician in his cell, and he writes on to the end of the chapter, through
good report and evil report. Pingo in eternitatem--is his motto. He neither envies nor admires
what others are, but is contented to be what he is, and strives to do the utmost he can. Mr.
Coleridge has flirted with the Muses as with a set of mistresses: Mr. Godwin has been married
twice, to Reason and to Fancy, and has to boast no short-lived progeny by each. So to speak,
he has valves belonging to his mind, to regulate the quantity of gas admitted into it, so that
like the bare, unsightly, but well-compacted steam-vessel, it cuts its liquid way, and arrives
at its promised end: while Mr. Coleridge's bark, "taught with the little nautilus to sail,"
the sport of every breath, dancing to every wave,

  "Youth at its prow, and Pleasure at its helm,"

flutters its gaudy pennons in the air, glitters in the sun, but we wait in vain to hear of
its arrival in the destined harbour. Mr. Godwin, with less variety and vividness, with less
subtlety and susceptibility both of thought and feeling, has had firmer nerves, a more determined
purpose, a more comprehensive grasp of his subject, and the results are as we find them. Each
has met with his reward: for justice has, after all, been done to the pretensions of each;
and we must, in all cases, use means to ends!

This gentleman has gained an almost unprecedented, and not an altogether unmerited popularity
as a preacher. As he is, perhaps, though a burning and a shining light, not "one of the fixed,"
we shall take this opportunity of discussing his merits, while he is at his meridian height;
and in doing so, shall "nothing extenuate, nor set down aught in malice."

Few circumstances shew the prevailing and preposterous rage for novelty in a more striking
point of view, than the success of Mr. Irving's oratory. People go to hear him in crowds, and
come away with a mixture of delight and astonishment--they go again to see if the effect will
continue, and send others to try to find out the mystery--and in the noisy conflict between
extravagant encomiums and splenetic objections, the true secret escapes observation, which
is, that the whole thing is, nearly from beginning to end, a transposition of ideas. If the
subject of these remarks had come out as a player, with all his advantages of figure, voice,
and action, we think he would have failed: if, as a preacher, he had kept within the strict
bounds of pulpit-oratory, he would scarcely have been much distinguished among his Calvinistic
brethren: as a mere author, he would have excited attention rather by his quaintness and affectation
of an obsolete style and mode of thinking, than by any thing else. But he has contrived to
jumble these several characters together in an unheard-of and unwarranted manner, and the fascination
is altogether irresistible. Our Caledonian divine is equally an anomaly in religion, in literature,
in personal appearance, and in public speaking. To hear a person spout Shakspeare on the stage
is nothing--the charm is nearly worn out--but to hear any one spout Shakspeare (and that not
in a sneaking under-tone, but at the top of his voice, and with the full breadth of his chest)
from a Calvinistic pulpit, is new and wonderful. The Fancy have lately lost something of their
gloss in public estimation, and after the last fight, few would go far to see a Neat or a Spring
set-to;--but to see a man who is able to enter the ring with either of them, or brandish a
quarter-staff with Friar Tuck, or a broad-sword with Shaw the Lifeguards' man, stand up in
a strait-laced old-fashioned pulpit, and bandy dialectics with modern philosophers or give
a cross-buttock to a cabinet minister, there is something in a sight like this also, that is
a cure for sore eyes. It is as if Crib or Molyneux had turned Methodist parson, or as if a
Patagonian savage were to come forward as the patron-saint of Evangelical religion. Again,
the doctrine of eternal punishment was one of the staple arguments with which, everlastingly
drawled out, the old school of Presbyterian divines used to keep their audiences awake, or
lull them to sleep; but to which people of taste and fashion paid little attention, as inelegant
and barbarous, till Mr. Irving, with his cast-iron features and sledge-hammer blows, puffing
like a grim Vulcan, set to work to forge more classic thunderbolts, and kindle the expiring
flames anew with the very sweepings of sceptical and infidel libraries, so as to excite a pleasing
horror in the female part of his congregation. In short, our popular declaimer has, contrary
to the Scripture-caution, put new wine into old bottles, or new cloth on old garments. He has,
with an unlimited and daring licence, mixed the sacred and the profane together, the carnal
and the spiritual man, the petulance of the bar with the dogmatism of the pulpit, the theatrical
and theological, the modern and the obsolete;--what wonder that this splendid piece of patchwork,
splendid by contradiction and contrast, has delighted some and confounded others? The more
serious part of his congregation indeed complain, though not bitterly, that their pastor has
converted their meeting-house into a play-house: but when a lady of quality, introducing herself
and her three daughters to the preacher, assures him that they have been to all the most fashionable
places of resort, the opera, the theatre, assemblies, Miss Macauley's readings, and Exeter-Change,
and have been equally entertained no where else, we apprehend that no remonstrances of a committee
of ruling-elders will be able to bring him to his senses again, or make him forego such sweet,
but ill-assorted praise. What we mean to insist upon is, that Mr. Irving owes his triumphant
success, not to any one quality for which he has been extolled, but to a combination of qualities,
the more striking in their immediate effect, in proportion as they are unlooked-for and heterogeneous,
like the violent opposition of light and shade in a picture. We shall endeavour to explain
this view of the subject more at large.

Mr. Irving, then, is no common or mean man. He has four or five qualities, possessed in a moderate
or in a paramount degree, which, added or multiplied together, fill up the important space
he occupies in the public eye. Mr. Irving's intellect itself is of a superior order; he has
undoubtedly both talents and acquirements beyond the ordinary run of every-day preachers. These
alone, however, we hold, would not account for a twentieth part of the effect he has produced:
they would have lifted him perhaps out of the mire and slough of sordid obscurity, but would
never have launched him into the ocean-stream of popularity, in which he "lies floating many
a rood;"--but to these he adds uncommon height, a graceful figure and action, a clear and powerful
voice, a striking, if not a fine face, a bold and fiery spirit, and a most portentous obliquity
of vision, which throw him to an immeasurable distance beyond all competition, and effectually
relieve whatever there might be of common-place or bombast in his style of composition. Put
the case that Mr. Irving had been five feet high--Would he ever have been heard of, or, as
he does now, have "bestrode the world like a Colossus?" No, the thing speaks for itself. He
would in vain have lifted his Lilliputian arm to Heaven, people would have laughed at his monkey-tricks.
Again, had he been as tall as he is, but had wanted other recommendations, he would have been
nothing.

  "The player's province they but vainly try,
  Who want these powers, deportment, voice, and eye."

Conceive a rough, ugly, shock-headed Scotchman, standing up in the Caledonian chapel, and dealing
"damnation round the land" in a broad northern dialect, and with a harsh, screaking voice,
what ear polite, what smile serene would have hailed the barbarous prodigy, or not consigned
him to utter neglect and derision? But the Rev. Edward Irving, with all his native wildness,
"hath a smooth aspect framed to make women" saints; his very unusual size and height are carried
off and moulded into elegance by the most admirable symmetry of form and ease of gesture; his
sable locks, his clear iron-grey complexion, and firm-set features, turn the raw, uncouth Scotchman
into the likeness of a noble Italian picture; and even his distortion of sight only redeems
the otherwise "faultless monster" within the bounds of humanity, and, when admiration is exhausted
and curiosity ceases, excites a new interest by leading to the idle question whether it is
an advantage to the preacher or not. Farther, give him all his actual and remarkable advantages
of body and mind, let him be as tall, as strait, as dark and clear of skin, as much at his
ease, as silver-tongued, as eloquent and as argumentative as he is, yet with all these, and
without a little charlatanery to set them off, he had been nothing. He might, keeping within
the rigid line of his duty and professed calling, have preached on for ever; he might have
divided the old-fashioned doctrines of election, grace, reprobation, predestination, into his
sixteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth heads, and his lastly have been looked for as a "consummation
devoutly to be wished;" he might have defied the devil and all his works, and by the help of
a loud voice and strong-set person--

  "A lusty man to ben an Abbot able;"--

have increased his own congregation, and been quoted among the godly as a powerful preacher
of the word; but in addition to this, he went out of his way to attack Jeremy Bentham, and
the town was up in arms. The thing was new. He thus wiped the stain of musty ignorance and
formal bigotry out of his style. Mr. Irving must have something superior in him, to look over
the shining close-packed heads of his congregation to have a hit at the Great Jurisconsult
in his study. He next, ere the report of the former blow had subsided, made a lunge at Mr.
Brougham, and glanced an eye at Mr. Canning; mystified Mr. Coleridge, and stultified Lord Liverpool
in his place--in the Gallery. It was rare sport to see him, "like an eagle in a dovecote, flutter
the Volscians in Corioli." He has found out the secret of attracting by repelling. Those whom
he is likely to attack are curious to hear what he says of them: they go again, to show that
they do not mind it. It is no less interesting to the by-standers, who like to witness this
sort of onslaught--like a charge of cavalry, the shock, and the resistance. Mr. Irving has,
in fact, without leave asked or a licence granted, converted the Caledonian Chapel into a Westminster
Forum or Debating Society, with the sanctity of religion added to it. Our spirited polemic
is not contented to defend the citadel of orthodoxy against all impugners, and shut himself
up in texts of Scripture and huge volumes of the Commentators as an impregnable fortress;--he
merely makes use of the stronghold of religion as a resting-place, from which he sallies forth,
armed with modern topics and with penal fire, like Achilles of old rushing from the Grecian
tents, against the adversaries of God and man. Peter Aretine is said to have laid the Princes
of Europe under contribution by penning satires against them: so Mr. Irving keeps the public
in awe by insulting all their favourite idols. He does not spare their politicians, their rulers,
their moralists, their poets, their players, their critics, their reviewers, their magazine-writers;
he levels their resorts of business, their places of amusement, at a blow--their cities, churches,
palaces, ranks and professions, refinements, and elegances--and leaves nothing standing but
himself, a mighty landmark in a degenerate age, overlooking the wide havoc he has made! He
makes war upon all arts and sciences, upon the faculties and nature of man, on his vices and
his virtues, on all existing institutions, and all possible improvements, that nothing may
be left but the Kirk of Scotland, and that he may be the head of it. He literally sends a challenge
to all London in the name of the KING of HEAVEN, to evacuate its streets, to disperse its population,
to lay aside its employments, to burn its wealth, to renounce its vanities and pomp; and for
what?--that he may enter in as the King of Glory; or after enforcing his threat with the battering-ram
of logic, the grape-shot of rhetoric, and the crossfire of his double vision, reduce the British
metropolis to a Scottish heath, with a few miserable hovels upon it, where they may worship
God according to the root of the matter, and an old man with a blue bonnet, a fair-haired girl,
and a little child would form the flower of his flock! Such is the pretension and the boast
of this new Peter the Hermit, who would get rid of all we have done in the way of improvement
on a state of barbarous ignorance, or still more barbarous prejudice, in order to begin again
on a tabula rasa of Calvinism, and have a world of his own making. It is not very surprising
that when nearly the whole mass and texture of civil society is indicted as a nuisance, and
threatened to be pulled down as a rotten building ready to fall on the heads of the inhabitants,
that all classes of people run to hear the crash, and to see the engines and levers at work
which are to effect this laudable purpose. What else can be the meaning of our preacher's taking
upon himself to denounce the sentiments of the most serious professors in great cities, as
vitiated and stark-naught, of relegating religion to his native glens, and pretending that
the hymn of praise or the sigh of contrition cannot ascend acceptably to the throne of grace
from the crowded street as well as from the barren rock or silent valley? Why put this affront
upon his hearers? Why belie his own aspirations?

  "God made the country, and man made the town."

So says the poet; does Mr. Irving say so? If he does, and finds the air of the city death to
his piety, why does he not return home again? But if he can breathe it with impunity, and still
retain the fervour of his early enthusiasm, and the simplicity and purity of the faith that
was once delivered to the saints, why not extend the benefit of his own experience to others,
instead of taunting them with a vapid pastoral theory? Or, if our popular and eloquent divine
finds a change in himself, that flattery prevents the growth of grace, that he is becoming
the God of his own idolatry by being that of others, that the glittering of coronet-coaches
rolling down Holborn-Hill to Hatton Garden, that titled beauty, that the parliamentary complexion
of his audience, the compliments of poets, and the stare of peers discompose his wandering
thoughts a little; and yet that he cannot give up these strong temptations tugging at his heart;
why not extend more charity to others, and shew more candour in speaking of himself? There
is either a good deal of bigoted intolerance with a deplorable want of self-knowledge in all
this; or at least an equal degree of cant and quackery.

To whichever cause we are to attribute this hyperbolical tone, we hold it certain he could
not have adopted it, if he had been a little man. But his imposing figure and dignified manner
enable him to hazard sentiments or assertions that would be fatal to others. His controversial
daring is backed by his bodily prowess; and by bringing his intellectual pretensions boldly
into a line with his physical accomplishments, he, indeed, presents a very formidable front
to the sceptic or the scoffer. Take a cubit from his stature, and his whole manner resolves
itself into an impertinence. But with that addition, he overcrows the town, browbeats their
prejudices, and bullies them out of their senses, and is not afraid of being contradicted by
any one less than himself. It may be said, that individuals with great personal defects have
made a considerable figure as public speakers; and Mr. Wilberforce, among others, may be held
out as an instance. Nothing can be more insignificant as to mere outward appearance, and yet
he is listened to in the House of Commons. But he does not wield it, he does not insult or
bully it. He leads by following opinion, he trims, he shifts, he glides on the silvery sounds
of his undulating, flexible, cautiously modulated voice, winding his way betwixt heaven and
earth, now courting popularity, now calling servility to his aid, and with a large estate,
the "saints," and the population of Yorkshire to swell his influence, never venturing on the
forlorn hope, or doing any thing more than "hitting the house between wind and water." Yet
he is probably a cleverer man than Mr. Irving.

There is a Mr. Fox, a Dissenting Minister, as fluent a speaker, with a sweeter voice and a
more animated and beneficent countenance than Mr. Irving, who expresses himself with manly
spirit at a public meeting, takes a hand at whist, and is the darling of his congregation;
but he is no more, because he is diminutive in person. His head is not seen above the crowd
the length of a street off. He is the Duke of Sussex in miniature, but the Duke of Sussex does
not go to hear him preach, as he attends Mr. Irving, who rises up against him like a martello
tower, and is nothing loth to confront the spirit of a man of genius with the blood-royal.
We allow there are, or may be, talents sufficient to produce this equality without a single
personal advantage; but we deny that this would be the effect of any that our great preacher
possesses. We conceive it not improbable that the consciousness of muscular power, that the
admiration of his person by strangers might first have inspired Mr. Irving with an ambition
to be something, intellectually speaking, and have given him confidence to attempt the greatest
things. He has not failed for want of courage. The public, as well as the fair, are won by
a show of gallantry. Mr. Irving has shrunk from no opinion, however paradoxical. He has scrupled
to avow no sentiment, however obnoxious. He has revived exploded prejudices, he has scouted
prevailing fashions. He has opposed the spirit of the age, and not consulted the esprit de
corps. He has brought back the doctrines of Calvinism in all their inveteracy, and relaxed
the inveteracy of his northern accents. He has turned religion and the Caledonian Chapel topsy-turvy.
He has held a play-book in one hand, and a Bible in the other, and quoted Shakspeare and Melancthon
in the same breath. The tree of the knowledge of good and evil is no longer, with his grafting,
a dry withered stump; it shoots its branches to the skies, and hangs out its blossoms to the gale--

  "Miraturque novos fructus, et non sua poma."

He has taken the thorns and briars of scholastic divinity, and garlanded them with the flowers
of modern literature. He has done all this, relying on the strength of a remarkably fine person
and manner, and through that he has succeeded--otherwise he would have perished miserably.

Dr. Chalmers is not by any means so good a looking man, nor so accomplished a speaker as Mr.
Irving; yet he at one time almost equalled his oratorical celebrity, and certainly paved the
way for him. He has therefore more merit than his admired pupil, as he has done as much with
fewer means. He has more scope of intellect and more intensity of purpose. Both his matter
and his manner, setting aside his face and figure, are more impressive. Take the volume of
"Sermons on Astronomy," by Dr. Chalmers, and the "Four Orations for the Oracles of God" which
Mr. Irving lately published, and we apprehend there can be no comparison as to their success.
The first ran like wild-fire through the country, were the darlings of watering-places, were
laid in the windows of inns,[A] and were to be met with in all places of public resort; while
the "Orations" get on but slowly, on Milton's stilts, and are pompously announced as in a Third
Edition. We believe the fairest and fondest of his admirers would rather see and hear Mr. Irving
than read him. The reason is, that the groundwork of his compositions is trashy and hackneyed,
though set off by extravagant metaphors and an affected phraseology; that without the turn
of his head and wave of his hand, his periods have nothing in them; and that he himself is
the only idea with which he has yet enriched the public mind! He must play off his person,
as Orator Henley used to dazzle his hearers with his diamond-ring. The small frontispiece prefixed
to the "Orations" does not serve to convey an adequate idea of the magnitude of the man, nor
of the ease and freedom of his motions in the pulpit. How different is Dr. Chalmers! He is
like "a monkey-preacher" to the other. He cannot boast of personal appearance to set him off.
But then he is like the very genius or demon of theological controversy personified. He has
neither airs nor graces at command; he thinks nothing of himself; he has nothing theatrical
about him (which cannot be said of his successor and rival); but you see a man in mortal throes
and agony with doubts and difficulties, seizing stubborn knotty points with his teeth, tearing
them with his hands, and straining his eyeballs till they almost start out of their sockets,
in pursuit of a train of visionary reasoning, like a Highland-seer with his second sight. The
description of Balfour of Burley in his cave, with his Bible in one hand and his sword in the
other, contending with the imaginary enemy of mankind, gasping for breath, and with the cold
moisture running down his face, gives a lively idea of Dr. Chalmers's prophetic fury in the
pulpit. If we could have looked in to have seen Burley hard-beset "by the coinage of his heat-oppressed
brain," who would have asked whether he was a handsome man or not? It would be enough to see
a man haunted by a spirit, under the strong and entire dominion of a wilful hallucination.
So the integrity and vehemence of Dr. Chalmers's manner, the determined way in which he gives
himself up to his subject, or lays about him and buffets sceptics and gainsayers, arrests attention
in spite of every other circumstance, and fixes it on that, and that alone, which excites such
interest and such eagerness in his own breast! Besides, he is a logician, has a theory in support
of whatever he chooses to advance, and weaves the tissue of his sophistry so close and intricate,
that it is difficult not to be entangled in it, or to escape from it. "There's magic in the
web." Whatever appeals to the pride of the human understanding, has a subtle charm in it. The
mind is naturally pugnacious, cannot refuse a challenge of strength or skill, sturdily enters
the lists and resolves to conquer, or to yield itself vanquished in the forms. This is the
chief hold Dr. Chalmers had upon his hearers, and upon the readers of his "Astronomical Discourses."
No one was satisfied with his arguments, no one could answer them, but every one wanted to
try what he could make of them, as we try to find out a riddle. "By his so potent art," the
art of laying down problematical premises, and drawing from them still more doubtful, but not
impossible, conclusions, "he could bedim the noonday sun, betwixt the green sea and the azure
vault set roaring war," and almost compel the stars in their courses to testify to his opinions.
The mode in which he undertook to make the circuit of the universe, and demand categorical
information "now of the planetary and now of the fixed," might put one in mind of Hecate's
mode of ascending in a machine from the stage, "midst troops of spirits," in which you now
admire the skill of the artist, and next tremble for the fate of the performer, fearing that
the audacity of the attempt will turn his head or break his neck. The style of these "Discourses"
also, though not elegant or poetical, was, like the subject, intricate and endless. It was
that of a man pushing his way through a labyrinth of difficulties, and determined not to flinch.
The impression on the reader was proportionate; for, whatever were the merits of the style
or matter, both were new and striking; and the train of thought that was unfolded at such length
and with such strenuousness, was bold, well-sustained, and consistent with itself.

Mr. Irving wants the continuity of thought and manner which distinguishes his rival--and shines
by patches and in bursts. He does not warm or acquire increasing force or rapidity with his
progress. He is never hurried away by a deep or lofty enthusiasm, nor touches the highest point
of genius or fanaticism, but "in the very storm and whirlwind of his passion, he acquires and
begets a temperance that may give it smoothness." He has the self-possession and masterly execution
of an experienced player or fencer, and does not seem to express his natural convictions, or
to be engaged in a mortal struggle. This greater ease and indifference is the result of vast
superiority of personal appearance, which "to be admired needs but to be seen," and does not
require the possessor to work himself up into a passion, or to use any violent contortions
to gain attention or to keep it. These two celebrated preachers are in almost all respects
an antithesis to each other. If Mr. Irving is an example of what can be done by the help of
external advantages, Dr. Chalmers is a proof of what can be done without them. The one is most
indebted to his mind, the other to his body. If Mr. Irving inclines one to suspect fashionable
or popular religion of a little anthropomorphitism, Dr. Chalmers effectually redeems it from
that scandal.

[Footnote A: We remember finding the volume in the orchard at Burford-bridge near Boxhill,
and passing a whole and very delightful morning in reading it, without quitting the shade of
an apple-tree. We have not been able to pay Mr. Irving's back the same compliment of reading
it at a sitting.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LATE MR. HORNE TOOKE.

Mr. Horne Tooke was one of those who may be considered as connecting links between a former
period and the existing generation. His education and accomplishments, nay, his political opinions,
were of the last age; his mind, and the tone of his feelings were modern. There was a hard,
dry materialism in the very texture of his understanding, varnished over by the external refinements
of the old school. Mr. Tooke had great scope of attainment, and great versatility of pursuit;
but the same shrewdness, quickness, cool self-possession, the same literalness of perception,
and absence of passion and enthusiasm, characterised nearly all he did, said, or wrote. His
mind (so to speak) had no religion in it, and very little even of the moral qualities of genius;
but he was a man of the world, a scholar bred, and a most acute and powerful logician. He was
also a wit, and a formidable one: yet it may be questioned whether his wit was any thing more
than an excess of his logical faculty: it did not consist in the play of fancy, but in close
and cutting combinations of the understanding. "The law is open to every one: so," said Mr.
Tooke, "is the London Tavern!" It is the previous deduction formed in the mind, and the splenetic
contempt felt for a practical sophism, that beats about the bush for, and at last finds the
apt illustration; not the casual, glancing coincidence of two objects, that points out an absurdity
to the understanding. So, on another occasion, when Sir Allan Gardiner (who was a candidate
for Westminster) had objected to Mr. Fox, that "he was always against the minister, whether
right or wrong," and Mr. Fox, in his reply, had overlooked this slip of the tongue, Mr. Tooke
immediately seized on it, and said, "he thought it at least an equal objection to Sir Allan,
that he was always with the minister, whether right or wrong." This retort had all the effect,
and produced the same surprise as the most brilliant display of wit or fancy: yet it was only
the detecting a flaw in an argument, like a flaw in an indictment, by a kind of legal pertinacity,
or rather by a rigid and constant habit of attending to the exact import of every word and
clause in a sentence. Mr. Tooke had the mind of a lawyer; but it was applied to a vast variety
of topics and general trains of speculation.

Mr. Horne Tooke was in private company, and among his friends, the finished gentleman of the
last age. His manners were as fascinating as his conversation was spirited and delightful.
He put one in mind of the burden of the song of "The King's Old Courtier, and an Old Courtier
of the King's." He was, however, of the opposite party. It was curious to hear our modern sciolist
advancing opinions of the most radical kind without any mixture of radical heat or violence,
in a tone of fashionable nonchalance, with elegance of gesture and attitude, and with the most
perfect good-humour. In the spirit of opposition, or in the pride of logical superiority, he
too often shocked the prejudices or wounded the self-love of those about him, while he himself
displayed the same unmoved indifference or equanimity. He said the most provoking things with
a laughing gaiety, and a polite attention, that there was no withstanding. He threw others
off their guard by thwarting their favourite theories, and then availed himself of the temperance
of his own pulse to chafe them into madness. He had not one particle of deference for the opinion
of others, nor of sympathy with their feelings; nor had he any obstinate convictions of his
own to defend--

  "Lord of himself, uncumbered with a creed!"

He took up any topic by chance, and played with it at will, like a juggler with his cups and
balls. He generally ranged himself on the losing side; and had rather an ill-natured delight
in contradiction, and in perplexing the understandings of others, without leaving them any
clue to guide them out of the labyrinth into which he had led them. He understood, in its perfection,
the great art of throwing the onus probandi on his adversary; and so could maintain almost
any opinion, however absurd or fantastical, with fearless impunity. I have heard a sensible
and well-informed man say, that he never was in company with Mr. Tooke without being delighted
and surprised, or without feeling the conversation of every other person to be flat in the
comparison; but that he did not recollect having ever heard him make a remark that struck him
as a sound and true one, or that he himself appeared to think so. Once at G----'s, he defended
Pitt from a charge of verbiage, and endeavoured to prove him superior to Fox. Some one imitated
Pitt's manner, to show that it was monotonous, and he imitated him also, to show that it was
not. He maintained (what would he not maintain?) that young Betty's acting was finer than John
Kemble's, and recited a passage from Douglas in the manner of each, to justify the preference
he gave to the former. The mentioning this will please the living; it cannot hurt the dead.
He argued on the same occasion and in the same breath, that Addison's style was without modulation,
and that it was physically impossible for any one to write well, who was habitually silent
in company. He sat like a king at his own table, and gave law to his guests--and to the world!
No man knew better how to manage his immediate circle, to foil or bring them out. A professed
orator, beginning to address some observations to Mr. Tooke with a voluminous apology for his
youth and inexperience, he said, "Speak up, young man!"--and by taking him at his word, cut
short the flower of orations. Porson was the only person of whom he stood in some degree of
awe, on account of his prodigious memory and knowledge of his favourite subject, Languages.
Sheridan, it has been remarked, said more good things, but had not an equal flow of pleasantry.
As an instance of Mr. Horne Tooke's extreme coolness and command of nerve, it has been mentioned
that once at a public dinner when he had got on the table to return thanks for his health being
drank with a glass of wine in his hand, and when there was a great clamour and opposition for
some time, after it had subsided, he pointed to the glass to shew that it was still full. Mr.
Holcroft (the author of the Road to Ruin) was one of the most violent and fiery-spirited of
all that motley crew of persons, who attended the Sunday meetings at Wimbledon. One day he
was so enraged by some paradox or raillery of his host, that he indignantly rose from his chair,
and said, "Mr. Tooke, you are a scoundrel!" His opponent without manifesting the least emotion,
replied, "Mr. Holcroft, when is it that I am to dine with you? shall it be next Thursday?"--"If
you please, Mr. Tooke!" answered the angry philosopher, and sat down again.--It was delightful
to see him sometimes turn from these waspish or ludicrous altercations with over-weening antagonists
to some old friend and veteran politician seated at his elbow; to hear him recal the time of
Wilkes and Liberty, the conversation mellowing like the wine with the smack of age; assenting
to all the old man said, bringing out his pleasant traits, and pampering him into childish
self-importance, and sending him away thirty years younger than he came!

As a public or at least as a parliamentary speaker, Mr. Tooke did not answer the expectations
that had been conceived of him, or probably that he had conceived of himself. It is natural
for men who have felt a superiority over all those whom they happen to have encountered, to
fancy that this superiority will continue, and that it will extend from individuals to public
bodies. There is no rule in the case; or rather, the probability lies the contrary way. That
which constitutes the excellence of conversation is of little use in addressing large assemblies
of people; while other qualities are required that are hardly to be looked for in one and the
same capacity. The way to move great masses of men is to shew that you yourself are moved.
In a private circle, a ready repartee, a shrewd cross-question, ridicule and banter, a caustic
remark or an amusing anecdote, whatever sets off the individual to advantage, or gratifies
the curiosity or piques the self-love of the hearers, keeps attention alive, and secures the
triumph of the speaker--it is a personal contest, and depends on personal and momentary advantages.
But in appealing to the public, no one triumphs but in the triumph of some public cause, or
by shewing a sympathy with the general and predominant feelings of mankind. In a private room,
a satirist, a sophist may provoke admiration by expressing his contempt for each of his adversaries
in turn, and by setting their opinion at defiance--but when men are congregated together on
a great public question and for a weighty object, they must be treated with more respect; they
are touched with what affects themselves or the general weal, not with what flatters the vanity
of the speaker; they must be moved altogether, if they are moved at all; they are impressed
with gratitude for a luminous exposition of their claims or for zeal in their cause; and the
lightning of generous indignation at bad men and bad measures is followed by thunders of applause--even
in the House of Commons. But a man may sneer and cavil and puzzle and fly-blow every question
that comes before him--be despised and feared by others, and admired by no one but himself.
He who thinks first of himself, either in the world or in a popular assembly, will be sure
to turn attention away from his claims, instead of fixing it there. He must make common cause
with his hearers. To lead, he must follow the general bias. Mr. Tooke did not therefore succeed
as a speaker in parliament. He stood aloof, he played antics, he exhibited his peculiar talent--while
he was on his legs, the question before the House stood still; the only point at issue respected
Mr. Tooke himself, his personal address and adroitness of intellect.

Were there to be no more places and pensions, because Mr. Tooke's style was terse and epigrammatic?
Were the Opposition benches to be inflamed to an unusual pitch of "sacred vehemence," because
he gave them plainly to understand there was not a pin to choose between Ministers and Opposition?
Would the House let him remain among them, because, if they turned him out on account of his
black coat, Lord Camelford had threatened to send his black servant in his place? This was
a good joke, but not a practical one. Would he gain the affections of the people out of doors,
by scouting the question of reform? Would the King ever relish the old associate of Wilkes?
What interest, then, what party did he represent? He represented nobody but himself. He was
an example of an ingenious man, a clever talker, but he was out of his place in the House of
Commons; where people did not come (as in his own house) to admire or break a lance with him,
but to get through the business of the day, and so adjourn! He wanted effect and momentum.
Each of his sentences told very well in itself, but they did not all together make a speech.
He left off where he began. His eloquence was a succession of drops, not a stream. His arguments,
though subtle and new, did not affect the main body of the question. The coldness and pettiness
of his manner did not warm the hearts or expand the understandings of his hearers. Instead
of encouraging, he checked the ardour of his friends; and teazed, instead of overpowering his
antagonists. The only palpable hit he ever made, while he remained there, was the comparing
his own situation in being rejected by the House, on account of the supposed purity of his
clerical character, to the story of the girl at the Magdalen, who was told "she must turn out
and qualify."[A] This met with laughter and loud applause. It was a home thrust, and the House
(to do them justice) are obliged to any one who, by a smart blow, relieves them of the load
of grave responsibility, which sits heavy on their shoulders.--At the hustings, or as an election-candidate,
Mr. Tooke did better. There was no great question to move or carry--it was an affair of political
sparring between himself and the other candidates. He took it in a very cool and leisurely
manner--watched his competitors with a wary, sarcastic eye; picked up the mistakes or absurdities
that fell from them, and retorted them on their heads; told a story to the mob; and smiled
and took snuff with a gentlemanly and becoming air, as if he was already seated in the House.
But a Court of Law was the place where Mr. Tooke made the best figure in public. He might assuredly
be said to be "native and endued unto that element." He had here to stand merely on the defensive--not
to advance himself, but to block up the way--not to impress others, but to be himself impenetrable.
All he wanted was negative success; and to this no one was better qualified to aspire. Cross
purposes, moot-points, pleas, demurrers, flaws in the indictment, double meanings, cases, inconsequentialities,
these were the play-things, the darlings of Mr. Tooke's mind; and with these he baffled the
Judge, dumb-founded the Counsel, and outwitted the Jury. The report of his trial before Lord
Kenyon is a master-piece of acuteness, dexterity, modest assurance, and legal effect. It is
much like his examination before the Commissioners of the Income-Tax--nothing could be got
out of him in either case! Mr. Tooke, as a political leader, belonged to the class of trimmers;
or at most, it was his delight to make mischief and spoil sport. He would rather be against
himself than for any body else. He was neither a bold nor a safe leader. He enticed others
into scrapes, and kept out of them himself. Provided he could say a clever or a spiteful thing,
he did not care whether it served or injured the cause. Spleen or the exercise of intellectual
power was the motive of his patriotism, rather than principle. He would talk treason with a
saving clause; and instil sedition into the public mind, through the medium of a third (who
was to be the responsible) party. He made Sir Francis Burdett his spokesman in the House and
to the country, often venting his chagrin or singularity of sentiment at the expense of his
friend; but what in the first was trick or reckless vanity, was in the last plain downright
English honesty and singleness of heart. In the case of the State Trials, in 1794, Mr. Tooke
rather compromised his friends to screen himself. He kept repeating that "others might have
gone on to Windsor, but he had stopped at Hounslow," as if to go farther might have been dangerous
and unwarrantable. It was not the question how far he or others had actually gone, but how
far they had a right to go, according to the law. His conduct was not the limit of the law,
nor did treasonable excess begin where prudence or principle taught him to stop short, though
this was the oblique inference liable to be drawn from his line of defence. Mr. Tooke was uneasy
and apprehensive for the issue of the Government-prosecution while in confinement, and said,
in speaking of it to a friend, with a morbid feeling and an emphasis quite unusual with him--"They
want our blood--blood--blood!" It was somewhat ridiculous to implicate Mr. Tooke in a charge
of High Treason (and indeed the whole charge was built on the mistaken purport of an intercepted
letter relating to an engagement for a private dinnerparty)--his politics were not at all revolutionary.
In this respect he was a mere pettifogger, full of chicane, and captious objections, and unmeaning
discontent; but he had none of the grand whirling movements of the French Revolution, nor of
the tumultuous glow of rebellion in his head or in his heart. His politics were cast in a different
mould, or confined to the party distinctions and court- intrigues and pittances of popular
right, that made a noise in the time of Junius and Wilkes--and even if his understanding had
gone along with more modern and unqualified principles, his cautious temper would have prevented
his risking them in practice. Horne Tooke (though not of the same side in politics) had much
of the tone of mind and more of the spirit of moral feeling of the celebrated philosopher of
Malmesbury. The narrow scale and fine-drawn distinctions of his political creed made his conversation
on such subjects infinitely amusing, particularly when contrasted with that of persons who
dealt in the sounding common-places and sweeping clauses of abstract politics. He knew all
the cabals and jealousies and heart-burnings in the beginning of the late reign, the changes
of administration and the springs of secret influence, the characters of the leading men, Wilkes,
Barrè, Dunning, Chatham, Burke, the Marquis of Rockingham, North, Shelburne, Fox, Pitt, and
all the vacillating events of the American war:--these formed a curious back-ground to the
more prominent figures that occupied the present time, and Mr. Tooke worked out the minute
details and touched in the evanescent traits with the pencil of a master. His conversation
resembled a political camera obscura--as quaint as it was magical. To some pompous pretenders
he might seem to narrate fabellas aniles (old wives' fables)--but not to those who study human
nature, and wish to know the materials of which it is composed. Mr. Tooke's faculties might
appear to have ripened and acquired a finer flavour with age. In a former period of his life
he was hardly the man he was latterly; or else he had greater abilities to contend against.
He no where makes so poor a figure as in his controversy with Junius. He has evidently the
best of the argument, yet he makes nothing out of it. He tells a long story about himself,
without wit or point in it; and whines and whimpers like a school-boy under the rod of his
master. Junius, after bringing a hasty charge against him, has not a single fact to adduce
in support of it; but keeps his ground and fairly beats his adversary out of the field by the
mere force of style. One would think that "Parson Horne" knew who Junius was, and was afraid
of him. "Under him his genius is" quite "rebuked." With the best cause to defend, he comes
off more shabbily from the contest than any other person in the LETTERS, except Sir William
Draper, who is the very hero of defeat.

The great thing which Mr. Horne Tooke has done, and which he has left behind him to posterity,
is his work on Grammar, oddly enough entitled THE DIVERSIONS OF PURLEY. Many people have taken
it up as a description of a game--others supposing it to be a novel. It is, in truth, one of
the few philosophical works on Grammar that were ever written. The essence of it (and, indeed,
almost all that is really valuable in it) is contained in his Letter to Dunning, published
about the year 1775. Mr. Tooke's work is truly elementary. Dr. Lowth described Mr. Harris's
Hermes as "the finest specimen of analysis since the days of Aristotle"--a work in which there
is no analysis at all, for analysis consists in reducing things to their principles, and not
in endless details and subdivisions. Mr. Harris multiplies distinctions, and confounds his
readers. Mr. Tooke clears away the rubbish of school-boy technicalities, and strikes at the
root of his subject. In accomplishing his arduous task, he was, perhaps, aided not more by
the strength and resources of his mind than by its limits and defects. There is a web of old
associations wound round language, that is a kind of veil over its natural features; and custom
puts on the mask of ignorance. But this veil, this mask the author of The Diversions of Purley
threw aside and penetrated to the naked truth of things, by the literal, matter-of-fact, unimaginative
nature of his understanding, and because he was not subject to prejudices or illusions of any
kind. Words may be said to "bear a charmed life, that must not yield to one of woman born"--with
womanish weaknesses and confused apprehensions. But this charm was broken in the case of Mr.
Tooke, whose mind was the reverse of effeminate--hard, unbending, concrete, physical, half-savage--and
who saw language stripped of the clothing of habit or sentiment, or the disguises of doting
pedantry, naked in its cradle, and in its primitive state. Our author tells us that he found
his discovery on Grammar among a number of papers on other subjects, which he had thrown aside
and forgotten. Is this an idle boast? Or had he made other discoveries of equal importance,
which he did not think it worth his while to communicate to the world, but chose to die the
churl of knowledge? The whole of his reasoning turns upon shewing that the Conjunction That
is the pronoun That, which is itself the participle of a verb, and in like manner that all
the other mystical and hitherto unintelligible parts of speech are derived from the only two
intelligible ones, the Verb and Noun. "I affirm that gold is yellow," that is, "I affirm that
fact, or that proposition, viz. gold is yellow." The secret of the Conjunction on which so
many fine heads had split, on which so many learned definitions were thrown away, as if it
was its peculiar province and inborn virtue to announce oracles and formal propositions, and
nothing else, like a Doctor of Laws, is here at once accounted for, inasmuch as it is clearly
nothing but another part of speech, the pronoun, that, with a third part of speech, the noun,
thing, understood. This is getting at a solution of words into their component parts, not glossing
over one difficulty by bringing another to parallel it, nor like saying with Mr. Harris, when
it is asked, "what a Conjunction is?" that there are conjunctions copulative, conjunctions
disjunctive, and as many other frivolous varieties of the species as any one chooses to hunt
out "with laborious foolery." Our author hit upon his parent-discovery in the course of a law-suit,
while he was examining, with jealous watchfulness, the meaning of words to prevent being entrapped
by them; or rather, this circumstance might itself be traced to the habit of satisfying his
own mind as to the precise sense in which he himself made use of words. Mr. Tooke, though he
had no objection to puzzle others, was mightily averse to being puzzled or mystified himself.
All was, to his determined mind, either complete light or complete darkness. There was no hazy,
doubtful chiaro-scuro in his understanding. He wanted something "palpable to feeling as to
sight." "What," he would say to himself, "do I mean when I use the conjunction that? Is it
an anomaly, a class by itself, a word sealed against all inquisitive attempts? Is it enough
to call it a copula, a bridge, a link, a word connecting sentences? That is undoubtedly its
use, but what is its origin?" Mr. Tooke thought he had answered this question satisfactorily,
and loosened the Gordian knot of grammarians, "familiar as his garter," when he said, "It is
the common pronoun, adjective, or participle, that, with the noun, thing or proposition, implied,
and the particular example following it." So he thought, and so every reader has thought since,
with the exception of teachers and writers upon grammar. Mr. Windham, indeed, who was a sophist,
but not a logician, charged him with having found "a mare's-nest;" but it is not to be doubted
that Mr. Tooke's etymologies will stand the test, and last longer than Mr. Windham's ingenious
derivation of the practice of bull-baiting from the principles of humanity!

Having thus laid the corner-stone, he proceeded to apply the same method of reasoning to other
undecyphered and impracticable terms. Thus the word, And, he explained clearly enough to be
the verb add, or a corruption of the old Saxon, anandad. "Two and two make four," that is,
"two add two make four." Mr. Tooke, in fact, treated words as the chemists do substances; he
separated those which are compounded of others from those which are not decompoundable. He
did not explain the obscure by the more obscure, but the difficult by the plain, the complex
by the simple. This alone is proceeding upon the true principles of science: the rest is pedantry
and petit-maitreship. Our philosophical writer distinguished all words into names of things,
and directions added for joining them together, or originally into nouns and verbs. It is a
pity that he has left this matter short, by omitting to define the Verb. After enumerating
sixteen different definitions (all of which he dismisses with scorn and contumely) at the end
of two quarto volumes, he refers the reader for the true solution to a third volume, which
he did not live to finish. This extraordinary man was in the habit of tantalizing his guests
on a Sunday afternoon with sundry abstruse speculations, and putting them off to the following
week for a satisfaction of their doubts; but why should he treat posterity in the same scurvy
manner, or leave the world without quitting scores with it? I question whether Mr. Tooke was
himself in possession of his pretended nostrum, and whether, after trying hard at a definition
of the verb as a distinct part of speech, as a terrier-dog mumbles a hedge-hog, he did not
find it too much for him, and leave it to its fate. It is also a pity that Mr. Tooke spun out
his great work with prolix and dogmatical dissertations on irrelevant matters; and after denying
the old metaphysical theories of language, should attempt to found a metaphysical theory of
his own on the nature and mechanism of language. The nature of words, he contended (it was
the basis of his whole system) had no connection with the nature of things or the objects of
thought; yet he afterwards strove to limit the nature of things and of the human mind by the
technical structure of language. Thus he endeavours to shew that there are no abstract ideas,
by enumerating two thousand instances of words, expressing abstract ideas, that are the past
participles of certain verbs. It is difficult to know what he means by this. On the other hand,
he maintains that "a complex idea is as great an absurdity as a complex star," and that words
only are complex. He also makes out a triumphant list of metaphysical and moral non-entities,
proved to be so on the pure principle that the names of these non-entities are participles,
not nouns, or names of things. That is strange in so close a reasoner and in one who maintained
that all language was a masquerade of words, and that the class to which they grammatically
belonged had nothing to do with the class of ideas they represented.

It is now above twenty years since the two quarto volumes of the Diversions of Purley were
published, and fifty since the same theory was promulgated in the celebrated Letter to Dunning.
Yet it is a curious example of the Spirit of the Age that Mr. Lindley Murray's Grammar (a work
out of which Mr. C---- helps himself to English, and Mr. M---- to style[B]) has proceeded to
the thirtieth edition in complete defiance of all the facts and arguments there laid down.
He defines a noun to be the name of a thing. Is quackery a thing, i.e. a substance? He defines
a verb to be a word signifying to be, to do, or to suffer. Are being, action, suffering verbs?
He defines an adjective to be the name of a quality. Are not wooden, golden, substantial adjectives?
He maintains that there are six cases in English nouns [C], that is, six various terminations
without any change of termination at all, and that English verbs have all the moods, tenses,
and persons that the Latin ones have. This is an extraordinary stretch of blindness and obstinacy.
He very formally translates the Latin Grammar into English (as so many had done before him)
and fancies he has written an English Grammar; and divines applaud, and schoolmasters usher
him into the polite world, and English scholars carry on the jest, while Horne Tooke's genuine
anatomy of our native tongue is laid on the shelf. Can it be that our politicians smell a rat
in the Member for Old Sarum? That our clergy do not relish Parson Horne? That the world at
large are alarmed at acuteness and originality greater than their own? What has all this to
do with the formation of the English language or with the first conditions and necessary foundation
of speech itself? Is there nothing beyond the reach of prejudice and party-spirit? It seems
in this, as in so many other instances, as if there was a patent for absurdity in the natural
bias of the human mind, and that folly should be stereotyped!

[Footnote A: "They receive him like a virgin at the Magdalen--Go thou and do likewise."--JUNIUS.]

[Footnote B: This work is not without merit in the details and examples of English construction.
But its fault even in that part is that he confounds the genius of the English language, making
it periphrastic and literal, instead of elliptical and idiomatic. According to Mr. Murray,
hardly any of our best writers ever wrote a word of English.]

[Footnote C: At least, with only one change in the genitive case,]

       *       *       *       *       *

SIR WALTER SCOTT

Sir Walter Scott is undoubtedly the most popular writer of the age--the "lord of the ascendant"
for the time being. He is just half what the human intellect is capable of being: if you take
the universe, and divide it into two parts, he knows all that it has been; all that it is to
be is nothing to him. His is a mind brooding over antiquity--scorning "the present ignorant
time." He is "laudator temporis acti"--a "prophesier of things past." The old world is to him
a crowded map; the new one a dull, hateful blank. He dotes on all well- authenticated superstitions;
he shudders at the shadow of innovation. His retentiveness of memory, his accumulated weight
of interested prejudice or romantic association have overlaid his other faculties. The cells
of his memory are vast, various, full even to bursting with life and motion; his speculative
understanding is empty, flaccid, poor, and dead. His mind receives and treasures up every thing
brought to it by tradition or custom--it does not project itself beyond this into the world
unknown, but mechanically shrinks back as from the edge of a prejudice. The land of pure reason
is to his apprehension like Van Dieman's Land;--barren, miserable, distant, a place of exile,
the dreary abode of savages, convicts, and adventurers. Sir Walter would make a bad hand of
a description of the Millennium, unless he could lay the scene in Scotland five hundred years
ago, and then he would want facts and worm-eaten parchments to support his drooping style.
Our historical novelist firmly thinks that nothing is but what has been--that the moral world
stands still, as the material one was supposed to do of old--and that we can never get beyond
the point where we actually are without utter destruction, though every thing changes and will
change from what it was three hundred years ago to what it is now,--from what it is now to
all that the bigoted admirer of the good old times most dreads and hates!

It is long since we read, and long since we thought of our author's poetry. It would probably
have gone out of date with the immediate occasion, even if he himself had not contrived to
banish it from our recollection. It is not to be denied that it had great merit, both of an
obvious and intrinsic kind. It abounded in vivid descriptions, in spirited action, in smooth
and flowing versification. But it wanted character. It was poetry "of no mark or likelihood."
It slid out of the mind as soon as read, like a river; and would have been forgotten, but that
the public curiosity was fed with ever-new supplies from the same teeming liquid source. It
is not every man that can write six quarto volumes in verse, that are caught up with avidity,
even by fastidious judges. But what a difference between their popularity and that of the Scotch
Novels! It is true, the public read and admired the Lay of the Last Minstrel, Marmion, and
so on, and each individual was contented to read and admire because the public did so: but
with regard to the prose-works of the same (supposed) author, it is quite another-guess sort
of thing. Here every one stands forward to applaud on his own ground, would be thought to go
before the public opinion, is eager to extol his favourite characters louder, to understand
them better than every body else, and has his own scale of comparative excellence for each
work, supported by nothing but his own enthusiastic and fearless convictions. It must be amusing
to the Author of Waverley to hear his readers and admirers (and are not these the same thing?[A])
quarrelling which of his novels is the best, opposing character to character, quoting passage
against passage, striving to surpass each other in the extravagance of their encomiums, and
yet unable to settle the precedence, or to do the author's writings justice--so various, so
equal, so transcendant are their merits! His volumes of poetry were received as fashionable
and well-dressed acquaintances: we are ready to tear the others in pieces as old friends. There
was something meretricious in Sir Walter's ballad-rhymes; and like those who keep opera figurantes,
we were willing to have our admiration shared, and our taste confirmed by the town: but the
Novels are like the betrothed of our hearts, bone of our bone, and flesh of our flesh, and
we are jealous that any one should be as much delighted or as thoroughly acquainted with their
beauties as ourselves. For which of his poetical heroines would the reader break a lance so
soon as for Jeanie Deans? What Lady of the Lake can compare with the beautiful Rebecca? We
believe the late Mr. John Scott went to his death-bed (though a painful and premature one)
with some degree of satisfaction, inasmuch as he had penned the most elaborate panegyric on
the Scotch Novels that had as yet appeared!--The Epics are not poems, so much as metrical romances.
There is a glittering veil of verse thrown over the features of nature and of old romance.
The deep incisions into character are "skinned and filmed over"--the details are lost or shaped
into flimsy and insipid decorum; and the truth of feeling and of circumstance is translated
into a tinkling sound, a tinsel common-place. It must be owned, there is a power in true poetry
that lifts the mind from the ground of reality to a higher sphere, that penetrates the inert,
scattered, incoherent materials presented to it, and by a force and inspiration of its own,
melts and moulds them into sublimity and beauty. But Sir Walter (we contend, under correction)
has not this creative impulse, this plastic power, this capacity of reacting on his first impressions.
He is a learned, a literal, a matter-of-fact expounder of truth or fable:[B] he does not soar
above and look down upon his subject, imparting his own lofty views and feelings to his descriptions
of nature--he relies upon it, is raised by it, is one with it, or he is nothing. A poet is
essentially a maker; that is, he must atone for what he loses in individuality and local resemblance
by the energies and resources of his own mind. The writer of whom we speak is deficient in
these last. He has either not the faculty or not the will to impregnate his subject by an effort
of pure invention. The execution also is much upon a par with the more ephemeral effusions
of the press. It is light, agreeable, effeminate, diffuse. Sir Walter's Muse is a Modern Antique.
The smooth, glossy texture of his verse contrasts happily with the quaint, uncouth, rugged
materials of which it is composed; and takes away any appearance of heaviness or harshness
from the body of local traditions and obsolete costume. We see grim knights and iron armour;
but then they are woven in silk with a careless, delicate hand, and have the softness of flowers.
The poet's figures might be compared to old [C] tapestries copied on the finest velvet:--they
are not like Raphael's Cartoons, but they are very like Mr. Westall's drawings, which accompany,
and are intended to illustrate them. This facility and grace of execution is the more remarkable,
as a story goes that not long before the appearance of the Lay of the Last Minstrel Sir Walter
(then Mr.) Scott, having, in the company of a friend, to cross the Frith of Forth in a ferry-boat,
they proposed to beguile the time by writing a number of verses on a given subject, and that
at the end of an hour's hard study, they found they had produced only six lines between them.
"It is plain," said the unconscious author to his fellow-labourer, "that you and I need never
think of getting our living by writing poetry!" In a year or so after this, he set to work,
and poured out quarto upon quarto, as if they had been drops of water. As to the rest, and
compared with true and great poets, our Scottish Minstrel is but "a metre ballad-monger." We
would rather have written one song of Burns, or a single passage in Lord Byron's Heaven and
Earth, or one of Wordsworth's "fancies and good-nights," than all his epics. What is he to
Spenser, over whose immortal, ever-amiable verse beauty hovers and trembles, and who has shed
the purple light of Fancy, from his ambrosial wings, over all nature? What is there of the
might of Milton, whose head is canopied in the blue serene, and who takes us to sit with him
there? What is there (in his ambling rhymes) of the deep pathos of Chaucer? Or of the o'er-informing
power of Shakespear, whose eye, watching alike the minutest traces of characters and the strongest
movements of passion, "glances from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven," and with the lambent
flame of genius, playing round each object, lights up the universe in a robe of its own radiance?
Sir Walter has no voluntary power of combination: all his associations (as we said before)
are those of habit or of tradition. He is a mere narrative and descriptive poet, garrulous
of the old time. The definition of his poetry is a pleasing superficiality.

Not so of his NOVELS AND ROMANCES. There we turn over a new leaf--another and the same--the
same in matter, but in form, in power how different! The author of Waverley has got rid of
the tagging of rhymes, the eking out of syllables, the supplying of epithets, the colours of
style, the grouping of his characters, and the regular march of events, and comes to the point
at once, and strikes at the heart of his subject, without dismay and without disguise. His
poetry was a lady's waiting-maid, dressed out in cast-off finery: his prose is a beautiful,
rustic nymph, that, like Dorothea in Don Quixote, when she is surprised with dishevelled tresses
bathing her naked feet in the brook, looks round her, abashed at the admiration her charms
have excited! The grand secret of the author's success in these latter productions is that
he has completely got rid of the trammels of authorship; and torn off at one rent (as Lord
Peter got rid of so many yards of lace in the Tale of a Tub) all the ornaments of fine writing
and worn-out sentimentality. All is fresh, as from the hand of nature: by going a century or
two back and laying the scene in a remote and uncultivated district, all becomes new and startling
in the present advanced period.--Highland manners, characters, scenery, superstitions, Northern
dialect and costume, the wars, the religion, and politics of the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries, give a charming and wholesome relief to the fastidious refinement and "over-laboured
lassitude" of modern readers, like the effect of plunging a nervous valetudinarian into a cold-bath.
The Scotch Novels, for this reason, are not so much admired in Scotland as in England. The
contrast, the transition is less striking. From the top of the Calton-Hill, the inhabitants
of "Auld Reekie" can descry, or fancy they descry the peaks of Ben Lomond and the waving outline
of Rob Roy's country: we who live at the southern extremity of the island can only catch a
glimpse of the billowy scene in the descriptions of the Author of Waverley. The mountain air
is most bracing to our languid nerves, and it is brought us in ship-loads from the neighbourhood
of Abbot's-Ford. There is another circumstance to be taken into the account. In Edinburgh there
is a little opposition and something of the spirit of cabal between the partisans of works
proceeding from Mr. Constable's and Mr. Blackwood's shops. Mr. Constable gives the highest
prices; but being the Whig bookseller, it is grudged that he should do so. An attempt is therefore
made to transfer a certain share of popularity to the second-rate Scotch novels, "the embryo
fry, the little airy of ricketty children," issuing through Mr. Blackwood's shop-door. This
operates a diversion, which does not affect us here. The Author of Waverley wears the palm
of legendary lore alone. Sir Walter may, indeed, surfeit us: his imitators make us sick! It
may be asked, it has been asked, "Have we no materials for romance in England? Must we look
to Scotland for a supply of whatever is original and striking in this kind?" And we answer--"Yes!"
Every foot of soil is with us worked up: nearly every movement of the social machine is calculable.
We have no room left for violent catastrophes; for grotesque quaintnesses; for wizard spells.
The last skirts of ignorance and barbarism are seen hovering (in Sir Walter's pages) over the
Border. We have, it is true, gipsies in this country as well as at the Cairn of Derncleugh:
but they live under clipped hedges, and repose in camp-beds, and do not perch on crags, like
eagles, or take shelter, like sea-mews, in basaltic subterranean caverns. We have heaths with
rude heaps of stones upon them: but no existing superstition converts them into the Geese of
Micklestane-Moor, or sees a Black Dwarf groping among them. We have sects in religion: but
the only thing sublime or ridiculous in that way is Mr. Irving, the Caledonian preacher, who
"comes like a satyr staring from the woods, and yet speaks like an orator!" We had a Parson
Adams not quite a hundred years ago--a Sir Roger de Coverley rather more than a hundred! Even
Sir Walter is ordinarily obliged to pitch his angle (strong as the hook is) a hundred miles
to the North of the "Modern Athens" or a century back. His last work,[A] indeed, is mystical,
is romantic in nothing but the title-page. Instead of "a holy-water sprinkle dipped in dew,"
he has given us a fashionable watering-place--and we see what he has made of it. He must not
come down from his fastnesses in traditional barbarism and native rusticity: the level, the
littleness, the frippery of modern civilization will undo him as it has undone us!

[Footnote A: No! For we met with a young lady who kept a circulating library and a milliner's-shop,
in a watering-place in the country, who, when we inquired for the Scotch Novels, spoke indifferently
about them, said they were "so dry she could hardly get through them," and recommended us to
read Agnes. We never thought of it before; but we would venture to lay a wager that there are
many other young ladies in the same situation, and who think "Old Mortality"

"Mr. Campbell may be said to hold a place (among modern poets) between Lord Byron and Mr. Rogers.
With much of the glossy splendour, the pointed vigour, and romantic interest of the one, he
possesses the fastidious refinement, the classic elegance of the other. Mr. Rogers, as a writer,
is too effeminate, Lord Byron too extravagant: Mr. Campbell is neither. The author of the Pleasures
of Memory polishes his lines till they sparkle with the most exquisite finish; he attenuates
them into the utmost degree of trembling softness: but we may complain, in spite of the delicacy
and brilliancy of the execution, of a want of strength and solidity. The author of the Pleasures
of Hope, with a richer and deeper vein of thought and imagination, works it out into figures
of equal grace and dazzling beauty, avoiding on the one hand the tinsel of flimsy affectation,
and on the other the vices of a rude and barbarous negligence. His Pegasus is not a rough,
skittish colt, running wild among the mountains, covered with bur-docks and thistles, nor a
tame, sleek pad, unable to get out of the same ambling pace, but a beautiful manege-horse,
full of life and spirit in itself, and subject to the complete controul of the rider. Mr. Campbell
gives scope to his feelings and his fancy, and embodies them in a noble and naturally interesting
subject; and he at the same time conceives himself called upon (in these days of critical nicety)
to pay the exactest attention to the expression of each thought, and to modulate each line
into the most faultless harmony. The character of his mind is a lofty and self-scrutinising
ambition, that strives to reconcile the integrity of general design with the perfect elaboration
of each component part, that aims at striking effect, but is jealous of the means by which
this is to be produced. Our poet is not averse to popularity (nay, he is tremblingly alive
to it)--but self-respect is the primary law, the indispensable condition on which it must be
obtained. We should dread to point out (even if we could) a false concord, a mixed metaphor,
an imperfect rhyme in any of Mr. Campbell's productions; for we think that all his fame would
hardly compensate to him for the discovery. He seeks for perfection, and nothing evidently
short of it can satisfy his mind. He is a high finisher in poetry, whose every work must bear
inspection, whose slightest touch is precious--not a coarse dauber who is contented to impose
on public wonder and credulity by some huge, ill-executed design, or who endeavours to wear
out patience and opposition together by a load of lumbering, feeble, awkward, improgressive
lines--on the contrary, Mr. Campbell labours to lend every grace of execution to his subject,
while he borrows his ardour and inspiration from it, and to deserve the laurels he has earned,
by true genius and by true pains. There is an apparent consciousness of this in most of his
writings. He has attained to great excellence by aiming at the greatest, by a cautious and
yet daring selection of topics, and by studiously (and with a religious horror) avoiding all
those faults which arise from grossness, vulgarity, haste, and disregard of public opinion.
He seizes on the highest point of eminence, and strives to keep it to himself--he "snatches
a grace beyond the reach of art," and will not let it go--he steeps a single thought or image
so deep in the Tyrian dyes of a gorgeous imagination, that it throws its lustre over a whole
page--every where vivid ideal forms hover (in intense conception) over the poet's verse, which
ascends, like the aloe, to the clouds, with pure flowers at its top. Or to take an humbler
comparison (the pride of genius must sometimes stoop to the lowliness of criticism) Mr. Campbell's
poetry often reminds us of the purple gilliflower, both for its colour and its scent, its glowing
warmth, its rich, languid, sullen hue,

  "Yet sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes,
  Or Cytherea's breath!"

There are those who complain of the little that Mr. Campbell has done in poetry, and who seem
to insinuate that he is deterred by his own reputation from making any further or higher attempts.
But after having produced two poems that have gone to the heart of a nation, and are gifts
to a world, he may surely linger out the rest of his life in a dream of immortality. There
are moments in our lives so exquisite that all that remains of them afterwards seems useless
and barren; and there are lines and stanzas in our author's early writings in which he may
be thought to have exhausted all the sweetness and all the essence of poetry, so that nothing
farther was left to his efforts or his ambition. Happy is it for those few and fortunate worshippers
of the Muse (not a subject of grudging or envy to others) who already enjoy in their life-time
a foretaste of their future fame, who see their names accompanying them, like a cloud of glory,
from youth to age,

  "And by the vision splendid,
  Are on their way attended"--

and who know that they have built a shrine for the thoughts and feelings, that were most dear
to them, in the minds and memories of other men, till the language which they lisped in childhood
is forgotten, or the human heart shall beat no more!

The Pleasures of Hope alone would not have called forth these remarks from us; but there are
passages in the Gertrude of Wyoming of so rare and ripe a beauty, that they challenge, as they
exceed all praise. Such, for instance, is the following peerless description of Gertrude's
childhood:--

  "A loved bequest--and I may half impart
  To those that feel the strong paternal tie,
  How like a new existence in his heart
  That living flow'r uprose beneath his eye,
  Dear as she was, from cherub infancy,
  From hours when she would round his garden play,
  To time when as the ripening years went by,
  Her lovely mind could culture well repay,
  And more engaging grew from pleasing day to day.

  "I may not paint those thousand infant charms
  (Unconscious fascination, undesign'd!)
  The orison repeated in his arms,
  For God to bless her sire and all mankind;
  The book, the bosom on his knee reclined,
  Or how sweet fairy-lore he heard her con
  (The play-mate ere the teacher of her mind)
  All uncompanion'd else her years had gone,
  Till now in Gertrude's eyes their ninth blue summer shone.

  "And summer was the tide, and sweet the hour,
  When sire and daughter saw, with fleet descent,
  An Indian from his bark approach their bower,
  Of buskin'd limb and swarthy lineament;
  The red wild feathers on his brow were blent,
  And bracelets bound the arm that help'd to light
  A boy, who seem'd, as he beside him went,
  Of Christian vesture and complexion bright,
  Led by his dusty guide, like morning brought by night."

In the foregoing stanzas we particularly admire the line--

  "Till now in Gertrude's eyes their ninth blue summer shone."

It appears to us like the ecstatic union of natural beauty and poetic fancy, and in its playful
sublimity resembles the azure canopy mirrored in the smiling waters, bright, liquid, serene,
heavenly! A great outcry, we know, has prevailed for some time past against poetic diction
and affected conceits, and, to a certain degree, we go along with it; but this must not prevent
us from feeling the thrill of pleasure when we see beauty linked to beauty, like kindred flame
to flame, or from applauding the voluptuous fancy that raises and adorns the fairy fabric of
thought, that nature has begun! Pleasure is "scattered in stray-gifts o'er the earth"--beauty
streaks the "famous poet's page" in occasional lines of inconceivable brightness; and wherever
this is the case, no splenetic censures or "jealous leer malign," no idle theories or cold
indifference should hinder us from greeting it with rapture.--There are other parts of this
poem equally delightful, in which there is a light startling as the red-bird's wing; a perfume
like that of the magnolia; a music like the murmuring of pathless woods or of the everlasting
ocean. We conceive, however, that Mr. Campbell excels chiefly in sentiment and imagery. The
story moves slow, and is mechanically conducted, and rather resembles a Scotch canal carried
over lengthened aqueducts and with a number of locks in it, than one of those rivers that sweep
in their majestic course, broad and full, over Transatlantic plains and lose themselves in
rolling gulfs, or thunder down lofty precipices. But in the centre, the inmost recesses of
our poet's heart, the pearly dew of sensibility is distilled and collects, like the diamond
in the mine, and the structure of his fame rests on the crystal columns of a polished imagination.
We prefer the Gertrude to the Pleasures of Hope, because with perhaps less brilliancy, there
is more of tenderness and natural imagery in the former. In the Pleasures of Hope Mr. Campbell
had not completely emancipated himself from the trammels of the more artificial style of poetry--from
epigram, and antithesis, and hyperbole. The best line in it, in which earthly joys are said to be--

  "Like angels' visits, few and far between"--

is a borrowed one.[A] But in the Gertrude of Wyoming "we perceive a softness coming over the
heart of the author, and the scales and crust of formality that fence in his couplets and give
them a somewhat glittering and rigid appearance, fall off," and he has succeeded in engrafting
the wild and more expansive interest of the romantic school of poetry on classic elegance and
precision. After the poem we have just named, Mr. Campbell's SONGS are the happiest efforts
of his Muse:--breathing freshness, blushing like the morn, they seem, like clustering roses,
to weave a chaplet for love and liberty; or their bleeding words gush out in mournful and hurried
succession, like "ruddy drops that visit the sad heart" of thoughtful Humanity. The Battle
of Hohenlinden is of all modern compositions the most lyrical in spirit and in sound. To justify
this encomium, we need only recall the lines to the reader's memory.

Mr. Campbell's prose-criticisms on contemporary and other poets (which have appeared in the
New Monthly Magazine) are in a style at once chaste, temperate, guarded, and just.

Mr. Crabbe presents an entire contrast to

Mr. Campbell:--the one is the most ambitious and aspiring of living poets, the other the most
humble and prosaic. If the poetry of the one is like the arch of the rainbow, spanning and
adorning the earth, that of the other is like a dull, leaden cloud hanging over it. Mr. Crabbe's
style might be cited as an answer to Audrey's question--"Is poetry a true thing?" There are
here no ornaments, no flights of fancy, no illusions of sentiment, no tinsel of words. His
song is one sad reality, one unraised, unvaried note of unavailing woe. Literal fidelity serves
him in the place of invention; he assumes importance by a number of petty details; he rivets
attention by being tedious. He not only deals in incessant matters of fact, but in matters
of fact of the most familiar, the least animating, and the most unpleasant kind; but he relies
for the effect of novelty on the microscopic minuteness with which he dissects the most trivial
objects--and for the interest he excites, on the unshrinking determination with which he handles
the most painful. His poetry has an official and professional air. He is called in to cases
of difficult births, of fractured limbs, or breaches of the peace; and makes out a parochial
list of accidents and offences. He takes the most trite, the most gross and obvious and revolting
part of nature, for the subject of his elaborate descriptions; but it is Nature still, and
Nature is a great and mighty Goddess! It is well for the Reverend Author that it is so. Individuality
is, in his theory, the only definition of poetry. Whatever is, he hitches into rhyme. Whoever
makes an exact image of any thing on the earth, however deformed or insignificant, according
to him, must succeed--and he himself has succeeded. Mr. Crabbe is one of the most popular and
admired of our living authors. That he is so, can be accounted for on no other principle than
the strong ties that bind us to the world about us, and our involuntary yearnings after whatever
in any manner powerfully and directly reminds us of it. His Muse is not one of the Daughters
of Memory, but the old toothless, mumbling dame herself, doling out the gossip and scandal
of the neighbourhood, recounting totidem verbis et literis, what happens in every place of
the kingdom every hour in the year, and fastening always on the worst as the most palatable
morsels. But she is a circumstantial old lady, communicative, scrupulous, leaving nothing to
the imagination, harping on the smallest grievances, a village-oracle and critic, most veritable,
most identical, bringing us acquainted with persons and things just as they chanced to exist,
and giving us a local interest in all she knows and tells. Mr. Crabbe's Helicon is choked up
with weeds and corruption; it reflects no light from heaven, it emits no cheerful sound: no
flowers of love, of hope, or joy spring up near it, or they bloom only to wither in a moment.
Our poet's verse does not put a spirit of youth in every thing, but a spirit of fear, despondency,
and decay: it is not an electric spark to kindle or expand, but acts like the torpedo's touch
to deaden or contract. It lends no dazzling tints to fancy, it aids no soothing feelings in
the heart, it gladdens no prospect, it stirs no wish; in its view the current of life runs
slow, dull, cold, dispirited, half under ground, muddy, and clogged with all creeping things.
The world is one vast infirmary; the hill of Parnassus is a penitentiary, of which our author
is the overseer: to read him is a penance, yet we read on! Mr. Crabbe, it must be confessed,
is a repulsive writer. He contrives to "turn diseases to commodities," and makes a virtue of
necessity. He puts us out of conceit with this world, which perhaps a severe divine should
do; yet does not, as a charitable divine ought, point to another. His morbid feelings droop
and cling to the earth, grovel where they should soar; and throw a dead weight on every aspiration
of the soul after the good or beautiful. By degrees we submit, and are reconciled to our fate,
like patients to the physician, or prisoners in the condemned cell. We can only explain this
by saying, as we said before, that Mr. Crabbe gives us one part of nature, the mean, the little,
the disgusting, the distressing; that he does this thoroughly and like a master, and we forgive
all the rest.

Mr. Crabbe's first poems were published so long ago as the year 1782, and received the approbation
of Dr. Johnson only a little before he died. This was a testimony from an enemy; for Dr. Johnson
was not an admirer of the simple in style or minute in description. Still he was an acute,
strong-minded man, and could see truth when it was presented to him, even through the mist
of his prejudices and his foibles. There was something in Mr. Crabbe's intricate points that
did not, after all, so ill accord with the Doctor's purblind vision; and he knew quite enough
of the petty ills of life to judge of the merit of our poet's descriptions, though he himself
chose to slur them over in high-sounding dogmas or general invectives. Mr. Crabbe's earliest
poem of the Village was recommended to the notice of Dr. Johnson by Sir Joshua Reynolds; and
we cannot help thinking that a taste for that sort of poetry, which leans for support on the
truth and fidelity of its imitations of nature, began to display itself much about that time,
and, in a good measure, in consequence of the direction of the public taste to the subject
of painting. Book-learning, the accumulation of wordy common-places, the gaudy pretensions
of poetical fiction, had enfeebled and perverted our eye for nature. The study of the fine
arts, which came into fashion about forty years ago, and was then first considered as a polite
accomplishment, would tend imperceptibly to restore it. Painting is essentially an imitative
art; it cannot subsist for a moment on empty generalities: the critic, therefore, who had been
used to this sort of substantial entertainment, would be disposed to read poetry with the eye
of a connoisseur, would be little captivated with smooth, polished, unmeaning periods, and
would turn with double eagerness and relish to the force and precision of individual details,
transferred, as it were, to the page from the canvas. Thus an admirer of Teniers or Hobbima
might think little of the pastoral sketches of Pope or Goldsmith; even Thompson describes not
so much the naked object as what he sees in his mind's eye, surrounded and glowing with the
mild, bland, genial vapours of his brain:--but the adept in Dutch interiors, hovels, and pig-styes
must find in Mr. Crabbe a man after his own heart. He is the very thing itself; he paints in
words, instead of colours: there is no other difference. As Mr. Crabbe is not a painter, only
because he does not use a brush and colours, so he is for the most part a poet, only because
he writes in lines of ten syllables. All the rest might be found in a newspaper, an old magazine,
or a county-register. Our author is himself a little jealous of the prudish fidelity of his
homely Muse, and tries to justify himself by precedents. He brings as a parallel instance of
merely literal description, Pope's lines on the gay Duke of Buckingham, beginning "In the worst
inn's worst room see Villiers lies!" But surely nothing can be more dissimilar. Pope describes
what is striking, Crabbe would have described merely what was there. The objects in Pope stand
out to the fancy from the mixture of the mean with the gaudy, from the contrast of the scene
and the character. There is an appeal to the imagination; you see what is passing in a poetical
point of view. In Crabbe there is no foil, no contrast, no impulse given to the mind. It is
all on a level and of a piece. In fact, there is so little connection between the subject-matter
of Mr. Crabbe's lines and the ornament of rhyme which is tacked to them, that many of his verses
read like serious burlesque, and the parodies which have been made upon them are hardly so
quaint as the originals.

Mr. Crabbe's great fault is certainly that he is a sickly, a querulous, a uniformly dissatisfied
poet. He sings the country; and he sings it in a pitiful tone. He chooses this subject only
to take the charm out of it, and to dispel the illusion, the glory, and the dream, which had
hovered over it in golden verse from Theocritus to Cowper. He sets out with professing to overturn
the theory which had hallowed a shepherd's life, and made the names of grove and valley music
to our ears, in order to give us truth in its stead; but why not lay aside the fool's cap and
bells at once? Why not insist on the unwelcome reality in plain prose? If our author is a poet,
why trouble himself with statistics? If he is a statistic writer, why set his ill news to harsh
and grating verse? The philosopher in painting the dark side of human nature may have reason
on his side, and a moral lesson or remedy in view. The tragic poet, who shews the sad vicissitudes
of things and the disappointments of the passions, at least strengthens our yearnings after
imaginary good, and lends wings to our desires, by which we, "at one bound, high overleap all
bound" of actual suffering. But Mr. Crabbe does neither. He gives us discoloured paintings
of life; helpless, repining, unprofitable, unedifying distress. He is not a philosopher, but
a sophist, a misanthrope in verse; a namby-pamby Mandeville, a Malthus turned metrical romancer.
He professes historical fidelity; but his vein is not dramatic; nor does he give us the pros
and cons of that versatile gipsey, Nature. He does not indulge his fancy, or sympathise with
us, or tell us how the poor feel; but how he should feel in their situation, which we do not
want to know. He does not weave the web of their lives of a mingled yarn, good and ill together,
but clothes them all in the same dingy linsey-woolsey, or tinges them with a green and yellow
melancholy. He blocks out all possibility of good, cancels the hope, or even the wish for it
as a weakness; check-mates Tityrus and Virgil at the game of pastoral cross-purposes, disables
all his adversary's white pieces, and leaves none but black ones on the board. The situation
of a country clergyman is not necessarily favourable to the cultivation of the Muse. He is
set down, perhaps, as he thinks, in a small curacy for life, and he takes his revenge by imprisoning
the reader's imagination in luckless verse. Shut out from social converse, from learned colleges
and halls, where he passed his youth, he has no cordial fellow-feeling with the unlettered
manners of the Village or the Borough; and he describes his neighbours as more uncomfortable
and discontented than himself. All this while he dedicates successive volumes to rising generations
of noble patrons; and while he desolates a line of coast with sterile, blighting lines, the
only leaf of his books where honour, beauty, worth, or pleasure bloom, is that inscribed to
the Rutland family! We might adduce instances of what we have said from every page of his works:
let one suffice--

  "Thus by himself compelled to live each day,
  To wait for certain hours the tide's delay;
  At the same times the same dull views to see,
  The bounding marsh-bank and the blighted tree;
  The water only when the tides were high,
  When low, the mud half-covered and half-dry;
  The sun-burnt tar that blisters on the planks,
  And bank-side stakes in their uneven ranks;
  Heaps of entangled weeds that slowly float,
  As the tide rolls by the impeded boat.
  When tides were neap, and in the sultry day,
  Through the tall bounding mud-banks made their way,
  Which on each side rose swelling, and below
  The dark warm flood ran silently and slow;
  There anchoring, Peter chose from man to hide,
  There hang his head, and view the lazy tide
  In its hot slimy channel slowly glide;
  Where the small eels, that left the deeper way
  For the warm shore, within the shallows play;
  Where gaping muscles, left upon the mud,
  Slope their slow passage to the fall'n flood:
  Here dull and hopeless he'd lie down and trace
  How side-long crabs had crawled their crooked race;
  Or sadly listen to the tuneless cry
  Of fishing gull or clanging golden-eye;
  What time the sea-birds to the marsh would come,
  And the loud bittern, from the bull-rush home,
  Gave from the salt ditch-side the bellowing boom:
  He nursed the feelings these dull scenes produce
  And loved to stop beside the opening sluice;
  Where the small stream, confined in narrow bound,
  Ran with a dull, unvaried, saddening sound;
  Where all, presented to the eye or ear,
  Oppressed the soul with misery, grief, and fear."

This is an exact fac-simile of some of the most unlovely parts of the creation. Indeed the
whole of Mr. Crabbe's Borough, from which the above passage is taken, is done so to the life,
that it seems almost like some sea-monster, crawled out of the neighbouring slime, and harbouring
a breed of strange vermin, with a strong local scent of tar and bulge-water. Mr. Crabbe's Tales
are more readable than his Poems; but in proportion as the interest increases, they become
more oppressive. They turn, one and all, upon the same sort of teazing, helpless, mechanical,
unimaginative distress;--and though it is not easy to lay them down, you never wish to take
them up again. Still in this way, they are highly finished, striking, and original portraits,
worked out with an eye to nature, and an intimate knowledge of the small and intricate folds
of the human heart. Some of the best are the Confidant, the story of Silly Shore, the Young
Poet, the Painter. The episode of Phoebe Dawson in the Village, is one of the most tender and
pensive; and the character of the methodist parson who persecutes the sailor's widow with his
godly, selfish love, is one of the most profound. In a word, if Mr. Crabbe's writings do not
add greatly to the store of entertaining and delightful fiction, yet they will remain "as a
thorn in the side of poetry," perhaps for a century to come!

[Footnote A:

  "Like angels' visits, short and far between."--.
  Blair's Grave.]

[Footnote B: Is not this word, which occurs in the last line but one, (as well as before) an
instance of that repetition, which we so often meet with in the most correct and elegant writers?]

       *       *       *       *       *

SIR JAMES MACKINTOSH.

The subject of the present article is one of the ablest and most accomplished men of the age,
both as a writer, a speaker, and a converser. He is, in fact, master of almost every known
topic, whether of a passing or of a more recondite nature. He has lived much in society, and
is deeply conversant with books. He is a man of the world and a scholar; but the scholar gives
the tone to all his other acquirements and pursuits. Sir James is by education and habit, and
we were going to add, by the original turn of his mind, a college-man; and perhaps he would
have passed his time most happily and respectably, had he devoted himself entirely to that
kind of life. The strength of his faculties would have been best developed, his ambition would
have met its proudest reward, in the accumulation and elaborate display of grave and useful
knowledge. As it is, it may be said, that in company he talks well, but too much; that in writing
he overlays the original subject and spirit of the composition, by an appeal to authorities
and by too formal a method; that in public speaking the logician takes place of the orator,
and that he fails to give effect to a particular point or to urge an immediate advantage home
upon his adversary from the enlarged scope of his mind, and the wide career he takes in the
field of argument.

To consider him in the last point of view, first. As a political partisan, he is rather the
lecturer than the advocate. He is able to instruct and delight an impartial and disinterested
audience by the extent of his information, by his acquaintance with general principles, by
the clearness and aptitude of his illustrations, by vigour and copiousness of style; but where
he has a prejudiced or unfair antagonist to contend with, he is just as likely to put weapons
into his enemy's hands as to wrest them from him, and his object seems to be rather to deserve
than to obtain success. The characteristics of his mind are retentiveness and comprehension,
with facility of production: but he is not equally remarkable for originality of view, or warmth
of feeling, or liveliness of fancy. His eloquence is a little rhetorical; his reasoning chiefly
logical: he can bring down the account of knowledge on a vast variety of subjects to the present
moment, he can embellish any cause he undertakes by the most approved and graceful ornaments,
he can support it by a host of facts and examples, but he cannot advance it a step forward
by placing it on a new and triumphant 'vantage-ground, nor can he overwhelm and break down
the artificial fences and bulwarks of sophistry by the irresistible tide of manly enthusiasm.
Sir James Mackintosh is an accomplished debater, rather than a powerful orator: he is distinguished
more as a man of wonderful and variable talent than as a man of commanding intellect. His mode
of treating a question is critical, and not parliamentary. It has been formed in the closet
and the schools, and is hardly fitted for scenes of active life, or the collisions of party-spirit.
Sir James reasons on the square; while the arguments of his opponents are loaded with iron
or gold. He makes, indeed, a respectable ally, but not a very formidable opponent. He is as
likely, however, to prevail on a neutral, as he is almost certain to be baffled on a hotly
contested ground. On any question of general policy or legislative improvement, the Member
for Nairn is heard with advantage, and his speeches are attended with effect: and he would
have equal weight and influence at other times, if it were the object of the House to hear
reason, as it is his aim to speak it. But on subjects of peace or war, of political rights
or foreign interference, where the waves of party run high, and the liberty of nations or the
fate of mankind hangs trembling in the scales, though he probably displays equal talent, and
does full and heaped justice to the question (abstractedly speaking, or if it were to be tried
before an impartial assembly), yet we confess we have seldom heard him, on such occasions,
without pain for the event. He did not slur his own character and pretensions, but he compromised
the argument. He spoke the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth; but the House
of Commons (we dare aver it) is not the place where the truth, the whole truth, and nothing
but the truth can be spoken with safety or with advantage. The judgment of the House is not
a balance to weigh scruples and reasons to the turn of a fraction: another element, besides
the love of truth, enters into the composition of their decisions, the reaction of which must
be calculated upon and guarded against. If our philosophical statesman had to open the case
before a class of tyros, or a circle of grey-beards, who wished to form or to strengthen their
judgments upon fair and rational grounds, nothing could be more satisfactory, more luminous,
more able or more decisive than the view taken of it by Sir James Mackintosh. But the House
of Commons, as a collective body, have not the docility of youth, the calm wisdom of age; and
often only want an excuse to do wrong, or to adhere to what they have already determined upon;
and Sir James, in detailing the inexhaustible stores of his memory and reading, in unfolding
the wide range of his theory and practice, in laying down the rules and the exceptions, in
insisting upon the advantages and the objections with equal explicitness, would be sure to
let something drop that a dextrous and watchful adversary would easily pick up and turn against
him, if this were found necessary; or if with so many pros and cons, doubts and difficulties,
dilemmas and alternatives thrown into it, the scale, with its natural bias to interest and
power, did not already fly up and kick the beam. There wanted unity of purpose, impetuosity
of feeling to break through the phalanx of hostile and inveterate prejudice arrayed against
him. He gave a handle to his enemies; threw stumbling-blocks in the way of his friends. He
raised so many objections for the sake of answering them, proposed so many doubts for the sake
of solving them, and made so many concessions where none were demanded, that his reasoning
had the effect of neutralizing itself; it became a mere exercise of the understanding without
zest or spirit left in it; and the provident engineer who was to shatter in pieces the strong-holds
of corruption and oppression, by a well-directed and unsparing discharge of artillery, seemed
to have brought not only his own cannon-balls, but his own wool-packs along with him to ward
off the threatened mischief. This was a good deal the effect of his maiden speech on the transfer
of Genoa, to which Lord Castlereagh did not deign an answer, and which another Honourable Member
called "a finical speech." It was a most able, candid, closely argued, and philosophical exposure
of that unprincipled transaction; but for this very reason it was a solecism in the place where
it was delivered. Sir James has, since this period, and with the help of practice, lowered
himself to the tone of the House; and has also applied himself to questions more congenial
to his habits of mind, and where the success would be more likely to be proportioned to his
zeal and his exertions.

There was a greater degree of power, or of dashing and splendid effect (we wish we could add,
an equally humane and liberal spirit) in the Lectures on the Law of Nature and Nations, formerly
delivered by Sir James (then Mr.) Mackintosh, in Lincoln's-Inn Hall. He shewed greater confidence;
was more at home there. The effect was more electrical and instantaneous, and this elicited
a prouder display of intellectual riches, and a more animated and imposing mode of delivery.
He grew wanton with success. Dazzling others by the brilliancy of his acquirements, dazzled
himself by the admiration they excited, he lost fear as well as prudence; dared every thing,
carried every thing before him. The Modern Philosophy, counterscarp, outworks, citadel, and
all, fell without a blow, by "the whiff and wind of his fell doctrine," as if it had been a
pack of cards. The volcano of the French Revolution was seen expiring in its own flames, like
a bon-fire made of straw: the principles of Reform were scattered in all directions, like chaff
before the keen northern blast. He laid about him like one inspired; nothing could withstand
his envenomed tooth. Like some savage beast got into the garden of the fabled Hesperides, he
made clear work of it, root and branch, with white, foaming tusks--

  "Laid waste the borders, and o'erthrew the bowers."

The havoc was amazing, the desolation was complete. As to our visionary sceptics and Utopian
philosophers, they stood no chance with our lecturer--he did not "carve them as a dish fit
for the Gods, but hewed them as a carcase fit for hounds." Poor Godwin, who had come, in the
bonhommie and candour of his nature, to hear what new light had broken in upon his old friend,
was obliged to quit the field, and slunk away after an exulting taunt thrown out at "such fanciful
chimeras as a golden mountain or a perfect man." Mr. Mackintosh had something of the air, much
of the dexterity and self-possession, of a political and philosophical juggler; and an eager
and admiring audience gaped and greedily swallowed the gilded bait of sophistry, prepared for
their credulity and wonder. Those of us who attended day after day, and were accustomed to
have all our previous notions confounded and struck out of our hands by some metaphysical legerdemain,
were at last at some loss to know whether two and two made four, till we had heard the lecturer's
opinion on that head. He might have some mental reservation on the subject, some pointed ridicule
to pour upon the common supposition, some learned authority to quote against it. To anticipate
the line of argument he might pursue, was evidently presumptuous and premature. One thing only
appeared certain, that whatever opinion he chose to take up, he was able to make good either
by the foils or the cudgels, by gross banter or nice distinctions, by a well-timed mixture
of paradox and common-place, by an appeal to vulgar prejudices or startling scepticism. It
seemed to be equally his object, or the tendency of his Discourses, to unsettle every principle
of reason or of common sense, and to leave his audience at the mercy of the dictum of a lawyer,
the nod of a minister, or the shout of a mob. To effect this purpose, he drew largely on the
learning of antiquity, on modern literature, on history, poetry, and the belles-lettres, on
the Schoolmen and on writers of novels, French, English, and Italian. In mixing up the sparkling
julep, that by its potent operation was to scour away the dregs and feculence and peccant humours
of the body politic, he seemed to stand with his back to the drawers in a metaphysical dispensary,
and to take out of them whatever ingredients suited his purpose. In this way he had an antidote
for every error, an answer to every folly. The writings of Burke, Hume, Berkeley, Paley, Lord
Bacon, Jeremy Taylor, Grotius, Puffendorf, Cicero, Aristotle, Tacitus, Livy, Sully, Machiavel,
Guicciardini, Thuanus, lay open beside him, and he could instantly lay his hand upon the passage,
and quote them chapter and verse to the clearing up of all difficulties, and the silencing
of all oppugners. Mr. Mackintosh's Lectures were after all but a kind of philosophical centos.
They were profound, brilliant, new to his hearers; but the profundity, the brilliancy, the
novelty were not his own. He was like Dr. Pangloss (not Voltaire's, but Coleman's) who speaks
only in quotations; and the pith, the marrow of Sir James's reasoning and rhetoric at that
memorable period might be put within inverted commas. It, however, served its purpose and the
loud echo died away. We remember an excellent man and a sound critic[A] going to hear one of
these elaborate effusions; and on his want of enthusiasm being accounted for from its not being
one of the orator's brilliant days, he replied, "he did not think a man of genius could speak
for two hours without saying something by which he would have been electrified." We are only
sorry, at this distance of time, for one thing in these Lectures--the tone and spirit in which
they seemed to have been composed and to be delivered. If all that body of opinions and principles
of which the orator read his recantation was unfounded, and there was an end of all those views
and hopes that pointed to future improvement, it was not a matter of triumph or exultation
to the lecturer or any body else, to the young or the old, the wise or the foolish; on the
contrary, it was a subject of regret, of slow, reluctant, painful admission--

  "Of lamentation loud heard through the rueful air."

The immediate occasion of this sudden and violent change in Sir James's views and opinions
was attributed to a personal interview which he had had a little before his death with Mr.
Burke, at his house at Beaconsfield. In the latter end of the year 1796, appeared the Regicide
Peace, from the pen of the great apostate from liberty and betrayer of his species into the
hands of those who claimed it as their property by divine right--a work imposing, solid in
many respects, abounding in facts and admirable reasoning, and in which all flashy ornaments
were laid aside for a testamentary gravity, (the eloquence of despair resembling the throes
and heaving and muttered threats of an earthquake, rather than the loud thunder-bolt)--and
soon after came out a criticism on it in The Monthly Review, doing justice to the author and
the style, and combating the inferences with force and at much length; but with candour and
with respect, amounting to deference. It was new to Mr. Burke not to be called names by persons
of the opposite party; it was an additional triumph to him to be spoken well of, to be loaded
with well-earned praise by the author of the Vindiciæ Gallicæ. It was a testimony from an old,
a powerful, and an admired antagonist.[B] He sent an invitation to the writer to come and see
him; and in the course of three days' animated discussion of such subjects, Mr. Mackintosh
became a convert not merely to the graces and gravity of Mr. Burke's style, but to the liberality
of his views, and the solidity of his opinions.--The Lincoln's-Inn Lectures were the fruit
of this interview: such is the influence exercised by men of genius and imaginative power over
those who have nothing to oppose to their unforeseen flashes of thought and invention, but
the dry, cold, formal deductions of the understanding. Our politician had time, during a few
years of absence from his native country, and while the din of war and the cries of party-spirit
"were lost over a wide and unhearing ocean," to recover from his surprise and from a temporary
alienation of mind; and to return in spirit, and in the mild and mellowed maturity of age,
to the principles and attachments of his early life.

The appointment of Sir James Mackintosh to a Judgeship in India was one, which, however flattering
to his vanity or favourable to his interests, was entirely foreign to his feelings and habits.
It was an honourable exile. He was out of his element among black slaves and sepoys, and Nabobs
and cadets, and writers to India. He had no one to exchange ideas with. The "unbought grace
of life," the charm of literary conversation was gone. It was the habit of his mind, his ruling
passion to enter into the shock and conflict of opinions on philosophical, political, and critical
questions--not to dictate to raw tyros or domineer over persons in subordinate situations--but
to obtain the guerdon and the laurels of superior sense and information by meeting with men
of equal standing, to have a fair field pitched, to argue, to distinguish, to reply, to hunt
down the game of intellect with eagerness and skill, to push an advantage, to cover a retreat,
to give and take a fall--

  "And gladly would he learn, and gladly teach."

It is no wonder that this sort of friendly intellectual gladiatorship is Sir James's greatest
pleasure, for it is his peculiar forte. He has not many equals, and scarcely any superior in
it. He is too indolent for an author; too unimpassioned for an orator: but in society he is
just vain enough to be pleased with immediate attention, good-humoured enough to listen with
patience to others, with great coolness and self-possession, fluent, communicative, and with
a manner equally free from violence and insipidity. Few subjects can be started, on which he
is not qualified to appear to advantage as the gentleman and scholar. If there is some tinge
of pedantry, it is carried off by great affability of address and variety of amusing and interesting
topics. There is scarce an author that he has not read; a period of history that he is not
conversant with; a celebrated name of which he has not a number of anecdotes to relate; an
intricate question that he is not prepared to enter upon in a popular or scientific manner.
If an opinion in an abstruse metaphysical author is referred to, he is probably able to repeat
the passage by heart, can tell the side of the page on which it is to be met with, can trace
it back through various descents to Locke, Hobbes, Lord Herbert of Cherbury, to a place in
some obscure folio of the School-men or a note in one of the commentators on Aristotle or Plato,
and thus give you in a few moments' space, and without any effort or previous notice, a chronological
table of the progress of the human mind in that particular branch of inquiry. There is something,
we think, perfectly admirable and delightful in an exhibition of this kind, and which is equally
creditable to the speaker and gratifying to the hearer. But this kind of talent was of no use
in India: the intellectual wares, of which the Chief Judge delighted to make a display, were
in no request there. He languished after the friends and the society he had left behind; and
wrote over incessantly for books from England. One that was sent him at this time was an Essay
on the Principles of Human Action; and the way in which he spoke of that dry, tough, metaphysical
choke-pear, shewed the dearth of intellectual intercourse in which he lived, and the craving
in his mind after those studies which had once been his pride, and to which he still turned
for consolation in his remote solitude.--Perhaps to another, the novelty of the scene, the
differences of mind and manners might have atoned for a want of social and literary agrèmens:
but Sir James is one of those who see nature through the spectacles of books. He might like
to read an account of India; but India itself with its burning, shining face would be a mere
blank, an endless waste to him. To persons of this class of mind things must be translated
into words, visible images into abstract propositions to meet their refined apprehensions,
and they have no more to say to a matter-of-fact staring them in the face without a label in
its mouth, than they would to a hippopotamus!--We may add, before we quit this point, that
we cannot conceive of any two persons more different in colloquial talents, in which they both
excel, than Sir James Mackintosh and Mr. Coleridge. The ideas of the one are as formal and
tangible, as those of the other are shadowy and evanescent. Sir James Mackintosh walks over
the ground, Mr. Coleridge is always flying off from it. The first knows all that has been said
upon a subject; the last has something to say that was never said before. If the one deals
too much in learned common-places, the other teems with idle fancies. The one has a good deal
of the caput mortuum of genius, the other is all volatile salt. The conversation of Sir James
Mackintosh has the effect of reading a well-written book, that of his friend is like hearing
a bewildered dream. The one is an Encyclopedia of knowledge, the other is a succession of Sybilline
Leaves!

As an author, Sir James Mackintosh may claim the foremost rank among those who pride themselves
on artificial ornaments and acquired learning, or who write what may be termed a composite
style. His Vindciae Gallicae is a work of great labour, great ingenuity, great brilliancy,
and great vigour. It is a little too antithetical in the structure of its periods, too dogmatical
in the announcement of its opinions. Sir James has, we believe, rejected something of the false
brilliant of the one, as he has retracted some of the abrupt extravagance of the other. We
apprehend, however, that our author is not one of those who draw from their own resources and
accumulated feelings, or who improve with age. He belongs to a class (common in Scotland and
elsewhere) who get up school-exercises on any given subject in a masterly manner at twenty,
and who at forty are either where they were--or retrograde, if they are men of sense and modesty.
The reason is, their vanity is weaned, after the first hey-day and animal spirits of youth
are flown, from making an affected display of knowledge, which, however useful, is not their
own, and may be much more simply stated; they are tired of repeating the same arguments over
and over again, after having exhausted and rung the changes on their whole stock for a number
of times. Sir James Mackintosh is understood to be a writer in the Edinburgh Review; and the
articles attributed to him there are full of matter of great pith and moment. But they want
the trim, pointed expression, the ambitious ornaments, the ostentatious display and rapid volubility
of his early productions. We have heard it objected to his later compositions, that his style
is good as far as single words and phrases are concerned, but that his sentences are clumsy
and disjointed, and that these make up still more awkward and sprawling paragraphs. This is
a nice criticism, and we cannot speak to its truth: but if the fact be so, we think we can
account for it from the texture and obvious process of the author's mind. All his ideas may
be said to be given preconceptions. They do not arise, as it were, out of the subject, or out
of one another at the moment, and therefore do not flow naturally and gracefully from one another.
They have been laid down beforehand in a sort of formal division or frame-work of the understanding;
and the connexion between the premises and the conclusion, between one branch of a subject
and another, is made out in a bungling and unsatisfactory manner. There is no principle of
fusion in the work: he strikes after the iron is cold, and there is a want of malleability
in the style. Sir James is at present said to be engaged in writing a History of England after
the downfall of the house of Stuart. May it be worthy of the talents of the author, and of
the principles of the period it is intended to illustrate! How should he?

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. MALTHUS.

Mr. Malthus may be considered as one of those rare and fortunate writers who have attained
a scientific reputation in questions of moral and political philosophy. His name undoubtedly
stands very high in the present age, and will in all probability go down to posterity with
more or less of renown or obloquy. It was said by a person well qualified to judge both from
strength and candour of mind, that "it would take a thousand years at least to answer his work
on Population." He has certainly thrown a new light on that question, and changed the aspect
of political economy in a decided and material point of view--whether he has not also endeavoured
to spread a gloom over the hopes and more sanguine speculations of man, and to cast a slur
upon the face of nature, is another question. There is this to be said for Mr. Malthus, that
in speaking of him, one knows what one is talking about. He is something beyond a mere name--one
has not to beat the bush about his talents, his attainments, his vast reputation, and leave
off without knowing what it all amounts to--he is not one of those great men, who set themselves
off and strut and fret an hour upon the stage, during a day-dream of popularity, with the ornaments
and jewels borrowed from the common stock, to which nothing but their vanity and presumption
gives them the least individual claim--he has dug into the mine of truth, and brought up ore
mixed with dross! In weighing his merits we come at once to the question of what he has done
or failed to do. It is a specific claim that he sets up. When we speak of Mr. Malthus, we mean
the Essay on Population; and when we mention the Essay on Population, we mean a distinct leading
proposition, that stands out intelligibly from all trashy pretence, and is a ground on which
to fix the levers that may move the world, backwards or forwards. He has not left opinion where
he found it; he has advanced or given it a wrong bias, or thrown a stumbling-block in its way.
In a word, his name is not stuck, like so many others, in the firmament of reputation, nobody
knows why, inscribed in great letters, and with a transparency of TALENTS, GENIUS, LEARNING
blazing round it--it is tantamount to an idea, it is identified with a principle, it means
that the population cannot go on perpetually increasing without pressing on the limits of the
means of subsistence, and that a check of some kind or other must, sooner or later, be opposed
to it. This is the essence of the doctrine which Mr. Malthus has been the first to bring into
general notice, and as we think, to establish beyond the fear of contradiction. Admitting then
as we do the prominence and the value of his claims to public attention, it yet remains a question,
how far those claims are (as to the talent displayed in them) strictly original; how far (as
to the logical accuracy with which he has treated the subject) he has introduced foreign and
doubtful matter into it; and how far (as to the spirit in which he has conducted his inquiries,
and applied a general principle to particular objects) he has only drawn fair and inevitable
conclusions from it, or endeavoured to tamper with and wrest it to sinister and servile purposes.
A writer who shrinks from following up a well-founded principle into its untoward consequences
from timidity or false delicacy, is not worthy of the name of a philosopher: a writer who assumes
the garb of candour and an inflexible love of truth to garble and pervert it, to crouch to
power and pander to prejudice, deserves a worse title than that of a sophist!

Mr. Malthus's first octavo volume on this subject (published in the year 1798) was intended
as an answer to Mr. Godwin's Enquiry concerning Political Justice. It was well got up for the
purpose, and had an immediate effect. It was what in the language of the ring is called a facer.
It made Mr. Godwin and the other advocates of Modern Philosophy look about them. It may be
almost doubted whether Mr. Malthus was in the first instance serious in many things that he
threw out, or whether he did not hazard the whole as an amusing and extreme paradox, which
might puzzle the reader as it had done himself in an idle moment, but to which no practical
consequence whatever could attach. This state of mind would probably continue till the irritation
of enemies and the encouragement of friends convinced him that what he had at first exhibited
as an idle fancy was in fact a very valuable discovery, or "like the toad ugly and venomous,
had yet a precious jewel in its head." Such a supposition would at least account for some things
in the original Essay, which scarcely any writer would venture upon, except as professed exercises
of ingenuity, and which have been since in part retracted. But a wrong bias was thus given,
and the author's theory was thus rendered warped, disjointed, and sophistical from the very outset.

Nothing could in fact be more illogical (not to say absurd) than the whole of Mr. Malthus's
reasoning applied as an answer (par excellence) to Mr. Godwin's book, or to the theories of
other Utopian philosophers. Mr. Godwin was not singular, but was kept in countenance by many
authorities, both ancient and modern, in supposing a state of society possible in which the
passions and wills of individuals would be conformed to the general good, in which the knowledge
of the best means of promoting human welfare and the desire of contributing to it would banish
vice and misery from the world, and in which, the stumbling-blocks of ignorance, of selfishness,
and the indulgence of gross appetite being removed, all things would move on by the mere impulse
of wisdom and virtue, to still higher and higher degrees of perfection and happiness. Compared
with the lamentable and gross deficiencies of existing institutions, such a view of futurity
as barely possible could not fail to allure the gaze and tempt the aspiring thoughts of the
philanthropist and the philosopher: the hopes and the imaginations of speculative men could
not but rush forward into this ideal world as into a vacuum of good; and from "the mighty stream
of tendency" (as Mr. Wordsworth in the cant of the day calls it,) there was danger that the
proud monuments of time-hallowed institutions, that the strong-holds of power and corruption,
that "the Corinthian capitals of polished society," with the base and pediments, might be overthrown
and swept away as by a hurricane. There were not wanting persons whose ignorance, whose fears,
whose pride, or whose prejudices contemplated such an alternative with horror; and who would
naturally feel no small obligation to the man who should relieve their apprehensions from the
stunning roar of this mighty change of opinion that thundered at a distance, and should be
able, by some logical apparatus or unexpected turn of the argument, to prevent the vessel of
the state from being hurried forward with the progress of improvement, and dashed in pieces
down the tremendous precipice of human perfectibility. Then comes Mr. Malthus forward with
the geometrical and arithmetical ratios in his hands, and holds them out to his affrighted
contemporaries as the only means of salvation. "For" (so argued the author of the Essay) "let
the principles of Mr. Godwin's Enquiry and of other similar works be carried literally and
completely into effect; let every corruption and abuse of power be entirely got rid of; let
virtue, knowledge, and civilization be advanced to the greatest height that these visionary
reformers would suppose; let the passions and appetites be subjected to the utmost control
of reason and influence of public opinion: grant them, in a word, all that they ask, and the
more completely their views are realized, the sooner will they be overthrown again, and the
more inevitable and fatal will be the catastrophe. For the principle of population will still
prevail, and from the comfort, ease, and plenty that will abound, will receive an increasing
force and impetus; the number of mouths to be fed will have no limit, but the food that is
to supply them cannot keep pace with the demand for it; we must come to a stop somewhere, even
though each square yard, by extreme improvements in cultivation, could maintain its man: in
this state of things there will be no remedy, the wholesome checks of vice and misery (which
have hitherto kept this principle within bounds) will have been done away; the voice of reason
will be unheard; the passions only will bear sway; famine, distress, havoc, and dismay will
spread around; hatred, violence, war, and bloodshed will be the infallible consequence, and
from the pinnacle of happiness, peace, refinement, and social advantage, we shall be hurled
once more into a profounder abyss of misery, want, and barbarism than ever, by the sole operation
of the principle of population!"--Such is a brief abstract of the argument of the Essay. Can
any thing be less conclusive, a more complete fallacy and petitio principii? Mr. Malthus concedes,
he assumes a state of perfectibility, such as his opponents imagined, in which the general
good is to obtain the entire mastery of individual interests, and reason of gross appetites
and passions; and then he argues that such a perfect structure of society will fall by its
own weight, or rather be undermined by the principle of population, because in the highest
possible state of the subjugation of the passions to reason, they will be absolutely lawless
and unchecked, and because as men become enlightened, quick sighted and public-spirited, they
will shew themselves utterly blind to the consequences of their actions, utterly indifferent
to their own well-being and that of all succeeding generations, whose fate is placed in their
hands. This we conceive to be the boldest paralogism that ever was offered to the world, or
palmed upon willing credulity. Against whatever other scheme of reform this objection might
be valid, the one it was brought expressly to overturn was impregnable against it, invulnerable
to its slightest graze. Say that the Utopian reasoners are visionaries, unfounded; that the
state of virtue and knowledge they suppose, in which reason shall have become all-in-all, can
never take place, that it is inconsistent with the nature of man and with all experience, well
and good--but to say that society will have attained this high and "palmy state," that reason
will have become the master- key to all our motives, and that when arrived at its greatest
power it will cease to act at all, but will fall down dead, inert, and senseless before the
principle of population, is an opinion which one would think few people would choose to advance
or assent to, without strong inducements for maintaining or believing it.

The fact, however, is, that Mr. Malthus found this argument entire (the principle and the application
of it) in an obscure and almost forgotten work published about the middle of the last century,
entitled Various Prospects of Mankind, Nature, and Providence, by a Scotch gentleman of the
name of Wallace. The chapter in this work on the Principle of Population, considered as a bar
to all ultimate views of human improvement, was probably written to amuse an idle hour, or
read as a paper to exercise the wits of some literary society in the Northern capital, and
no farther responsibility or importance annexed to it. Mr. Malthus, by adopting and setting
his name to it, has given it sufficient currency and effect. It sometimes happens that one
writer is the first to discover a certain principle or lay down a given observation, and that
another makes an application of, or draws a remote or an immediate inference from it, totally
unforeseen by the first, and from which, in all probability, he might have widely dissented.
But this is not so in the present instance. Mr. Malthus has borrowed (perhaps without consciousness,
at any rate without acknowledgment) both the preliminary statement, that the increase in the
supply of food "from a limited earth and a limited fertility" must have an end, while the tendency
to increase in the principle of population has none, without some external and forcible restraint
on it, and the subsequent use made of this statement as an insuperable bar to all schemes of
Utopian or progressive improvement--both these he has borrowed (whole) from Wallace, with all
their imperfections on their heads, and has added more and greater ones to them out of his
own store. In order to produce something of a startling and dramatic effect, he has strained
a point or two. In order to quell and frighten away the bugbear of Modern Philosophy, he was
obliged to make a sort of monster of the principle of population, which was brought into the
field against it, and which was to swallow it up quick. No half-measures, no middle course
of reasoning would do. With a view to meet the highest possible power of reason in the new
order of things, Mr. Malthus saw the necessity of giving the greatest possible physical weight
to the antagonist principle, and he accordingly lays it down that its operation is mechanical
and irresistible. He premises these two propositions as the basis of all his reasoning, 1.
That food is necessary to man; 2. That the desire to propagate the species is an equally indispensable
law of our existence:--thus making it appear that these two wants or impulses are equal and
coordinate principles of action. If this double statement had been true, the whole scope and
structure of his reasoning (as hostile to human hopes and sanguine speculations) would have
been irrefragable; but as it is not true, the whole (in that view) falls to the ground. According
to Mr. Malthus's octavo edition, the sexual passion is as necessary to be gratified as the
appetite of hunger, and a man can no more exist without propagating his species than he can
live without eating. Were it so, neither of these passions would admit of any excuses, any
delay, any restraint from reason or foresight; and the only checks to the principle of population
must be vice and misery. The argument would be triumphant and complete. But there is no analogy,
no parity in the two cases, such as our author here assumes. No man can live for any length
of time without food; many persons live all their lives without gratifying the other sense.
The longer the craving after food is unsatisfied, the more violent, imperious, and uncontroulable
the desire becomes; whereas the longer the gratification of the sexual passion is resisted,
the greater force does habit and resolution acquire over it; and, generally speaking, it is
a well-known fact, attested by all observation and history, that this latter passion is subject
more or less to controul from personal feelings and character, from public opinions and the
institutions of society, so as to lead either to a lawful and regulated indulgence, or to partial
or total abstinence, according to the dictates of moral restraint, which latter check to the
inordinate excesses and unheard-of consequences of the principle of population, our author,
having no longer an extreme case to make out, admits and is willing to patronize in addition
to the two former and exclusive ones of vice and misery, in the second and remaining editions
of his work. Mr. Malthus has shewn some awkwardness or even reluctance in softening down the
harshness of his first peremptory decision. He sometimes grants his grand exception cordially,
proceeds to argue stoutly, and to try conclusions upon it; at other times he seems disposed
to cavil about or retract it:--"the influence of moral restraint is very inconsiderable, or
none at all." It is indeed difficult (more particularly for so formal and nice a reasoner as
Mr. Malthus) to piece such contradictions plausibly or gracefully together. We wonder how he
manages it--how any one should attempt it! The whole question, the gist of the argument of
his early volume turned upon this, "Whether vice and misery were the only actual or possible
checks to the principle of population?" He then said they were, and farewell to building castles
in the air: he now says that moral restraint is to be coupled with these, and that its influence
depends greatly on the state of laws and manners--and Utopia stands where it did, a great way
off indeed, but not turned topsy-turvy by our magician's wand! Should we ever arrive there,
that is, attain to a state of perfect moral restraint, we shall not be driven headlong back
into Epicurus's stye for want of the only possible checks to population, vice and misery; and
in proportion as we advance that way, that is, as the influence of moral restraint is extended,
the necessity for vice and misery will be diminished, instead of being increased according
to the first alarm given by the Essay. Again, the advance of civilization and of population
in consequence with the same degree of moral restraint (as there exists in England at this
present time, for instance) is a good, and not an evil--but this does not appear from the Essay.
The Essay shews that population is not (as had been sometimes taken for granted) an abstract
and unqualified good; but it led many persons to suppose that it was an abstract and unqualified
evil, to be checked only by vice and misery, and producing, according to its encouragement
a greater quantity of vice and misery; and this error the author has not been at sufficient
pains to do away. Another thing, in which Mr. Malthus attempted to clench Wallace's argument,
was in giving to the disproportionate power of increase in the principle of population and
the supply of food a mathematical form, or reducing it to the arithmetical and geometrical
ratios, in which we believe Mr. Malthus is now generally admitted, even by his friends and
admirers, to have been wrong. There is evidently no inherent difference in the principle of
increase in food or population; since a grain of corn, for example, will propagate and multiply
itself much faster even than the human species. A bushel of wheat will sow a field; that field
will furnish seed for twenty others. So that the limit to the means of subsistence is only
the want of room to raise it in, or, as Wallace expresses it, "a limited fertility and a limited
earth." Up to the point where the earth or any given country is fully occupied or cultivated,
the means of subsistence naturally increase in a geometrical ratio, and will more than keep
pace with the natural and unrestrained progress of population; and beyond that point, they
do not go on increasing even in Mr. Malthus's arithmetical ratio, but are stationary or nearly
so. So far, then, is this proportion from being universally and mathematically true, that in
no part of the world or state of society does it hold good. But our theorist, by laying down
this double ratio as a law of nature, gains this advantage, that at all times it seems as if,
whether in new or old-peopled countries, in fertile or barren soils, the population was pressing
hard on the means of subsistence; and again, it seems as if the evil increased with the progress
of improvement and civilization; for if you cast your eye at the scale which is supposed to
be calculated upon true and infallible data, you find that when the population is at 8, the
means of subsistence are at 4; so that here there is only a deficit of one half; but when it
is at 32, they have only got to 6, so that here there is a difference of 26 in 32, and so on
in proportion; the farther we proceed, the more enormous is the mass of vice and misery we
must undergo, as a consequence of the natural excess of the population over the means of subsistence
and as a salutary check to its farther desolating progress. The mathematical Table, placed
at the front of the Essay, therefore leads to a secret suspicion or a bare-faced assumption,
that we ought in mere kindness and compassion to give every sort of indirect and under-hand
encouragement (to say the least) to the providential checks of vice and misery; as the sooner
we arrest this formidable and paramount evil in its course, the less opportunity we leave it
of doing incalculable mischief. Accordingly, whenever there is the least talk of colonizing
new countries, of extending the population, or adding to social comforts and improvements,
Mr. Malthus conjures up his double ratios, and insists on the alarming results of advancing
them a single step forward in the series. By the same rule, it would be better to return at
once to a state of barbarism; and to take the benefit of acorns and scuttle-fish, as a security
against the luxuries and wants of civilized life. But it is not our ingenious author's wish
to hint at or recommend any alterations in existing institutions; and he is therefore silent
on that unpalatable part of the subject and natural inference from his principles.

Mr. Malthus's "gospel is preached to the poor." He lectures them on economy, on morality, the
regulation of their passions (which, he says, at other times, are amenable to no restraint)
and on the ungracious topic, that "the laws of nature, which are the laws of God, have doomed
them and their families to starve for want of a right to the smallest portion of food beyond
what their labour will supply, or some charitable hand may hold out in compassion." This is
illiberal, and it is not philosophical. The laws of nature or of God, to which the author appeals,
are no other than a limited fertility and a limited earth. Within those bounds, the rest is
regulated by the laws of man. The division of the produce of the soil, the price of labour,
the relief afforded to the poor, are matters of human arrangement: while any charitable hand
can extend relief, it is a proof that the means of subsistence are not exhausted in themselves,
that "the tables are not full!" Mr. Malthus says that the laws of nature, which are the laws
of God, have rendered that relief physically impossible; and yet he would abrogate the poor-laws
by an act of the legislature, in order to take away that impossible relief, which the laws
of God deny, and which the laws of man actually afford. We cannot think that this view of his
subject, which is prominent and dwelt on at great length and with much pertinacity, is dictated
either by rigid logic or melting charity! A labouring man is not allowed to knock down a hare
or a partridge that spoils his garden: a country-squire keeps a pack of hounds: a lady of quality
rides out with a footman behind her, on two sleek, well-fed horses. We have not a word to say
against all this as exemplifying the spirit of the English Constitution, as a part of the law
of the land, or as an artful distribution of light and shade in the social picture; but if
any one insists at the same time that "the laws of nature, which are the laws of God, have
doomed the poor and their families to starve," because the principle of population has encroached
upon and swallowed up the means of subsistence, so that not a mouthful of food is left by the
grinding law of necessity for the poor, we beg leave to deny both fact and inference--and we
put it to Mr. Malthus whether we are not, in strictness, justified in doing so?

We have, perhaps, said enough to explain our feeling on the subject of Mr. Malthus's merits
and defects. We think he had the opportunity and the means in his hands of producing a great
work on the principle of population; but we believe he has let it slip from his having an eye
to other things besides that broad and unexplored question. He wished not merely to advance
to the discovery of certain great and valuable truths, but at the same time to overthrow certain
unfashionable paradoxes by exaggerated statements--to curry favour with existing prejudices
and interests by garbled representations. He has, in a word, as it appears to us on a candid
retrospect and without any feelings of controversial asperity rankling in our minds, sunk the
philosopher and the friend of his species (a character to which he might have aspired) in the
sophist and party-writer. The period at which Mr. Malthus came forward teemed with answers
to Modern Philosophy, with antidotes to liberty and humanity, with abusive Histories of the
Greek and Roman republics, with fulsome panegyrics on the Roman Emperors (at the very time
when we were reviling Buonaparte for his strides to universal empire) with the slime and offal
of desperate servility--and we cannot but consider the Essay as one of the poisonous ingredients
thrown into the cauldron of Legitimacy "to make it thick and slab." Our author has, indeed,
so far done service to the cause of truth, that he has counteracted many capital errors formerly
prevailing as to the universal and indiscriminate encouragement of population under all circumstances;
but he has countenanced opposite errors, which if adopted in theory and practice would be even
more mischievous, and has left it to future philosophers to follow up the principle, that some
check must be provided for the unrestrained progress of population, into a set of wiser and
more humane consequences. Mr. Godwin has lately attempted an answer to the Essay (thus giving
Mr. Malthus a Roland for his Oliver) but we think he has judged ill in endeavouring to invalidate
the principle, instead of confining himself to point out the misapplication of it. There is
one argument introduced in this Reply, which will, perhaps, amuse the reader as a sort of metaphysical
puzzle.

"It has sometimes occurred to me whether Mr. Malthus did not catch the first hint of his geometrical
ratio from a curious passage of Judge Blackstone, on consanguinity, which is as follows:--

"The doctrine of lineal consanguinity is sufficiently plain and obvious; but it is at the first
view astonishing to consider the number of lineal ancestors which every man has within no very
great number of degrees: and so many different bloods is a man said to contain in his veins,
as he hath lineal ancestors. Of these he hath two in the first ascending degree, his own parents;
he hath four in the second, the parents of his father and the parents of his mother; he hath
eight in the third, the parents of his two grandfathers and two grandmothers; and by the same
rule of progression, he hath an hundred and twenty-eight in the seventh; a thousand and twenty-four
in the tenth; and at the twentieth degree, or the distance of twenty generations, every man
hath above a million of ancestors, as common arithmetic will demonstrate.

"This will seem surprising to those who are unacquainted with the increasing power of progressive
numbers; but is palpably evident from the following table of a geometrical progression, in
which the first term is 2, and the denominator also 2; or, to speak more intelligibly, it is
evident, for that each of us has two ancestors in the first degree; the number of which is
doubled at every remove, because each of our ancestors had also two ancestors of his own.

  Lineal Degrees.                        Number of Ancestors.

  1        ..       ..        ..                    2
  2        ..       ..        ..                    4
  3        ..       ..        ..                    8
  4        ..       ..        ..                   16
  5        ..       ..        ..                   32
  6        ..       ..        ..                   64
  7        ..       ..        ..                  128
  8        ..       ..        ..                  256
  9        ..       ..        ..                  512
  10        ..       ..        ..                 1024
  11        ..       ..        ..                 2048
  12        ..       ..        ..                 4096
  13        ..       ..        ..                 8192
  14        ..       ..        ..               16,384
  15        ..       ..        ..               32,768
  16        ..       ..        ..               65,536
  17        ..       ..        ..              131,072
  18        ..       ..        ..              262,144
  19        ..       ..        ..              524,288
  20        ..       ..        ..            1,048,576

"This argument, however," (proceeds Mr. Godwin) "from Judge Blackstone of a geometrical progression
would much more naturally apply to Montesquieu's hypothesis of the depopulation of the world,
and prove that the human species is hastening fast to extinction, than to the purpose for which
Mr. Malthus has employed it. An ingenious sophism might be raised upon it, to shew that the
race of mankind will ultimately terminate in unity. Mr. Malthus, indeed, should have reflected,
that it is much more certain that every man has had ancestors than that he will have posterity,
and that it is still more doubtful, whether he will have posterity to twenty or to an indefinite
number of generations."--ENQUIRY CONCERNING POPULATION, p. 100.

Mr. Malthus's style is correct and elegant; his tone of controversy mild and gentlemanly; and
the care with which he has brought his facts and documents together, deserves the highest praise.
He has lately quitted his favourite subject of population, and broke a lance with Mr. Ricardo
on the question of rent and value. The partisans of Mr. Ricardo, who are also the admirers
of Mr. Malthus, say that the usual sagacity of the latter has here failed him, and that he
has shewn himself to be a very illogical writer. To have said this of him formerly on another
ground, was accounted a heresy and a piece of presumption not easily to be forgiven. Indeed
Mr. Malthus has always been a sort of "darling in the public eye," whom it was unsafe to meddle
with. He has contrived to make himself as many friends by his attacks on the schemes of Human
Perfectibility and on the Poor-Laws, as Mandeville formerly procured enemies by his attacks
on Human Perfections and on Charity-Schools; and among other instances that we might mention,
Plug Pulteney, the celebrated miser, of whom Mr. Burke said on his having a large estate left
him, "that now it was to be hoped he would set up a pocket-handkerchief," was so enamoured
with the saving schemes and humane economy of the Essay, that he desired a friend to find out
the author and offer him a church living! This liberal intention was (by design or accident)
unhappily frustrated.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. GIFFORD.

Mr. Gifford was originally bred to some handicraft: he afterwards contrived to learn Latin,
and was for some time an usher in a school, till he became a tutor in a nobleman's family.
The low-bred, self-taught man, the pedant, and the dependant on the great contribute to form
the Editor of the Quarterly Review. He is admirably qualified for this situation, which he
has held for some years, by a happy combination of defects, natural and acquired; and in the
event of his death, it will be difficult to provide him a suitable successor.

Mr. Gifford has no pretensions to be thought a man of genius, of taste, or even of general
knowledge. He merely understands the mechanical and instrumental part of learning. He is a
critic of the last age, when the different editions of an author, or the dates of his several
performances were all that occupied the inquiries of a profound scholar, and the spirit of
the writer or the beauties of his style were left to shift for themselves, or exercise the
fancy of the light and superficial reader. In studying an old author, he has no notion of any
thing beyond adjusting a point, proposing a different reading, or correcting, by the collation
of various copies, an error of the press. In appreciating a modern one, if it is an enemy,
the first thing he thinks of is to charge him with bad grammar--he scans his sentences instead
of weighing his sense; or if it is a friend, the highest compliment he conceives it possible
to pay him is, that his thoughts and expressions are moulded on some hackneyed model. His standard
of ideal perfection is what he himself now is, a person of mediocre literary attainments: his
utmost contempt is shewn by reducing any one to what he himself once was, a person without
the ordinary advantages of education and learning. It is accordingly assumed, with much complacency
in his critical pages, that Tory writers are classical and courtly as a matter of course; as
it is a standing jest and evident truism, that Whigs and Reformers must be persons of low birth
and breeding--imputations from one of which he himself has narrowly escaped, and both of which
he holds in suitable abhorrence. He stands over a contemporary performance with all the self-conceit
and self-importance of a country schoolmaster, tries it by technical rules, affects not to
understand the meaning, examines the hand-writing, the spelling, shrugs up his shoulders and
chuckles over a slip of the pen, and keeps a sharp look-out for a false concord and--a flogging.
There is nothing liberal, nothing humane in his style of judging: it is altogether petty, captious,
and literal. The Editor's political subserviency adds the last finishing to his ridiculous
pedantry and vanity. He has all his life been a follower in the train of wealth and power--strives
to back his pretensions on Parnassus by a place at court, and to gild his reputation as a man
of letters by the smile of greatness. He thinks his works are stamped with additional value
by having his name in the Red-Book. He looks up to the distinctions of rank and station as
he does to those of learning, with the gross and overweening adulation of his early origin.
All his notions are low, upstart, servile. He thinks it the highest honour to a poet to be
patronised by a peer or by some dowager of quality. He is prouder of a court-livery than of
a laurel-wreath; and is only sure of having established his claims to respectability by having
sacrificed those of independence. He is a retainer to the Muses; a door-keeper to learning;
a lacquey in the state. He believes that modern literature should wear the fetters of classical
antiquity; that truth is to be weighed in the scales of opinion and prejudice; that power is
equivalent to right; that genius is dependent on rules; that taste and refinement of language
consist in word-catching. Many persons suppose that Mr. Gifford knows better than he pretends;
and that he is shrewd, artful, and designing. But perhaps it may be nearer the mark to suppose
that his dulness is guarantee for his sincerity; or that before he is the tool of the profligacy
of others, he is the dupe of his own jaundiced feelings, and narrow, hoodwinked perceptions.

  "Destroy his fib or sophistry: in vain--
  The creature's at his dirty work again!"

But this is less from choice or perversity, than because he cannot help it and can do nothing
else. He damns a beautiful expression less out of spite than because he really does not understand
it: any novelty of thought or sentiment gives him a shock from which he cannot recover for
some time, and he naturally takes his revenge for the alarm and uneasiness occasioned him,
without referring to venal or party motives. He garbles an author's meaning, not so much wilfully,
as because it is a pain to him to enlarge his microscopic view to take in the context, when
a particular sentence or passage has struck him as quaint and out of the way: he fly-blows
an author's style, and picks out detached words and phrases for cynical reprobation, simply
because he feels himself at home, or takes a pride and pleasure in this sort of petty warfare.
He is tetchy and impatient of contradiction; sore with wounded pride; angry at obvious faults,
more angry at unforeseen beauties. He has the chalk-stones in his understanding, and from being
used to long confinement, cannot bear the slightest jostling or irregularity of motion. He
may call out with the fellow in the Tempest--"I am not Stephano, but a cramp!" He would go
back to the standard of opinions, style, the faded ornaments, and insipid formalities that
came into fashion about forty years ago. Flashes of thought, flights of fancy, idiomatic expressions,
he sets down among the signs of the times--the extraordinary occurrences of the age we live
in. They are marks of a restless and revolutionary spirit: they disturb his composure of mind,
and threaten (by implication) the safety of the state. His slow, snail-paced, bed-rid habits
of reasoning cannot keep up with the whirling, eccentric motion, the rapid, perhaps extravagant
combinations of modern literature. He has long been stationary himself, and is determined that
others shall remain so. The hazarding a paradox is like letting off a pistol close to his ear:
he is alarmed and offended. The using an elliptical mode of expression (such as he did not
use to find in Guides to the English Tongue) jars him like coming suddenly to a step in a flight
of stairs that you were not aware of. He pishes and pshaws at all this, exercises a sort of
interjectional criticism on what excites his spleen, his envy, or his wonder, and hurls his
meagre anathemas ex cathedrâ at all those writers who are indifferent alike to his precepts
and his example!

Mr. Gifford, in short, is possessed of that sort of learning which is likely to result from
an over-anxious desire to supply the want of the first rudiments of education; that sort of
wit, which is the offspring of ill-humour or bodily pain; that sort of sense, which arises
from a spirit of contradiction and a disposition to cavil at and dispute the opinions of others;
and that sort of reputation, which is the consequence of bowing to established authority and
ministerial influence. He dedicates to some great man, and receives his compliments in return.
He appeals to some great name, and the Under-graduates of the two Universities look up to him
as an oracle of wisdom. He throws the weight of his verbal criticism and puny discoveries in
black-letter reading into the gap, that is supposed to be making in the Constitution by Whigs
and Radicals, whom he qualifies without mercy as dunces and miscreants; and so entitles himself
to the protection of Church and State. The character of his mind is an utter want of independence
and magnanimity in all that he attempts. He cannot go alone, he must have crutches, a go-cart
and trammels, or he is timid, fretful, and helpless as a child. He cannot conceive of any thing
different from what he finds it, and hates those who pretend to a greater reach of intellect
or boldness of spirit than himself. He inclines, by a natural and deliberate bias, to the traditional
in laws and government; to the orthodox in religion; to the safe in opinion; to the trite in
imagination; to the technical in style; to whatever implies a surrender of individual judgment
into the hands of authority, and a subjection of individual feeling to mechanic rules. If he
finds any one flying in the face of these, or straggling from the beaten path, he thinks he
has them at a notable disadvantage, and falls foul of them without loss of time, partly to
soothe his own sense of mortified self-consequence, and as an edifying spectacle to his legitimate
friends. He takes none but unfair advantages. He twits his adversaries (that is, those who
are not in the leading-strings of his school or party) with some personal or accidental defect.
If a writer has been punished for a political libel, he is sure to hear of it in a literary
criticism. If a lady goes on crutches and is out of favour at court, she is reminded of it
in Mr. Gilford's manly satire. He sneers at people of low birth or who have not had a college-education,
partly to hide his own want of certain advantages, partly as well-timed flattery to those who
possess them. He has a right to laugh at poor, unfriended, untitled genius from wearing the
livery of rank and letters, as footmen behind a coronet-coach laugh at the rabble. He keeps
good company, and forgets himself. He stands at the door of Mr. Murray's shop, and will not
let any body pass but the well-dressed mob, or some followers of the court. To edge into the
Quarterly Temple of Fame the candidate must have a diploma from the Universities, a passport
from the Treasury. Otherwise, it is a breach of etiquette to let him pass, an insult to the
better sort who aspire to the love of letters--and may chance to drop in to the Feast of the
Poets. Or, if he cannot manage it thus, or get rid of the claim on the bare ground of poverty
or want of school-learning, he trumps up an excuse for the occasion, such as that "a man was
confined in Newgate a short time before"--it is not a lie on the part of the critic, it is
only an amiable subserviency to the will of his betters, like that of a menial who is ordered
to deny his master, a sense of propriety, a knowledge of the world, a poetical and moral license.
Such fellows (such is his cue from his employers) should at any rate be kept out of privileged
places: persons who have been convicted of prose-libels ought not to be suffered to write poetry--if
the fact was not exactly as it was stated, it was something of the kind, or it ought to have
been so, the assertion was a pious fraud,--the public, the court, the prince himself might
read the work, but for this mark of opprobrium set upon it--it was not to be endured that an
insolent plebeian should aspire to elegance, taste, fancy--it was throwing down the barriers
which ought to separate the higher and the lower classes, the loyal and the disloyal--the paraphrase
of the story of Dante was therefore to perform quarantine, it was to seem not yet recovered
from the gaol infection, there was to be a taint upon it, as there was none in it--and all
this was performed by a single slip of Mr. Gifford's pen! We would willingly believe (if we
could) that in this case there was as much weakness and prejudice as there was malice and cunning.--Again,
we do not think it possible that under any circumstances the writer of the Verses to Anna could
enter into the spirit or delicacy of Mr. Keats's poetry.

Mr. Keats's ostensible crime was that he had been praised in the Examiner Newspaper: a greater
and more unpardonable offence probably was, that he was a true poet, with all the errors and
beauties of youthful genius to answer for. Mr. Gifford was as insensible to the one as he was
inexorable to the other. Let the reader judge from the two subjoined specimens how far the
one writer could ever, without a presumption equalled only by a want of self-knowledge, set
himself in judgment on the other.

  "Out went the taper as she hurried in;
  Its little smoke in pallid moonshine died:
  She closed the door, she panted, all akin
  To spirits of the air and visions wide:
  No utter'd syllable, or woe betide!
  But to her heart, her heart was voluble,
  Paining with eloquence her balmy side;
  As though a tongueless nightingale should swell
  Her heart in vain, and die, heart-stifled, in her dell.

  "A casement high and triple-arch'd there was,
  All garlanded with carven imag'ries
  Of fruits, and flowers, and bunches of knot-grass,
  And diamonded with panes of quaint device,
  Innumerable of stains and splendid dyes,
  As are the tiger-moth's deep-damask'd wings;
  And in the midst, 'mong thousand heraldries,
  And twilight saints and dim emblazonings,
  A shielded scutcheon blush'd with blood of queens and kings.

  "Full on this casement shone the wintry moon,
  And threw warm gules on Madeline's fair breast,
  As down she knelt for Heaven's grace and boon;
  Rose-bloom fell on her hands, together prest,
  And on her silver cross soft amethyst,
  And on her hair a glory, like a Saint:
  She seem'd a splendid angel, newly drest,
  Save wings, for heaven:--Porphyro grew faint:
  She knelt, so pure a thing, so free from mortal taint.

  "Anon his heart revives: her vespers done,
  Of all its wreathed pearls her hair she frees;
  Unclasps her warmed jewels one by one;
  Loosens her fragrant boddice; by degrees
  Her rich attire creeps rustling to her knees:
  Half-hidden, like a mermaid in sea-weed,
  Pensive awhile she dreams awake, and sees,
  In fancy, fair St. Agnes in her bed,
  But dares not look behind, or all the charm is fled.

  "Soon trembling in her soft and chilly nest,
  In sort of wakeful swoon, perplex'd she lay,
  Until the poppied warmth of sleep oppress'd
  Her soothed limbs, and soul fatigued away
  Flown, like a thought, until the morrow-day:
  Blissfully haven'd both from joy and pain;
  Clasp'd like a missal where swart Paynims pray;
  Blinded alike from sunshine and from rain,
  As though a rose should shut, and be a bud again."
  EVE OF ST. AGNES.

With the rich beauties and the dim obscurities of lines like these, let us contrast the Verses
addressed To a Tuft of early Violets by the fastidious author of the Baviad and Mæviad.--

  "Sweet flowers! that from your humble beds
  Thus prematurely dare to rise,
  And trust your unprotected heads
  To cold Aquarius' watery skies.

  "Retire, retire! These tepid airs
  Are not the genial brood of May;
  That sun with light malignant glares,
  And flatters only to betray.

  "Stern Winter's reign is not yet past--
  Lo! while your buds prepare to blow,
  On icy pinions comes the blast,
  And nips your root, and lays you low.

  "Alas, for such ungentle doom!
  But I will shield you; and supply
  A kindlier soil on which to bloom,
  A nobler bed on which to die.

  "Come then--'ere yet the morning ray
  Has drunk the dew that gems your crest,
  And drawn your balmiest sweets away;
  O come and grace my Anna's breast.

  "Ye droop, fond flowers! But did ye know
  What worth, what goodness there reside,
  Your cups with liveliest tints would glow;
  And spread their leaves with conscious pride.

  "For there has liberal Nature joined
  Her riches to the stores of Art,
  And added to the vigorous mind
  The soft, the sympathising heart.

  "O! I should think--that fragrant bed
  Might I but hope with you to share--[A]
  Years of anxiety repaid
  By one short hour of transport there.

  "More blest than me, thus shall ye live
  Your little day; and when ye die,
  Sweet flowers! the grateful Muse shall give
  A verse; the sorrowing maid, a sigh.

  "While I alas! no distant date,
  Mix with the dust from whence I came,
  Without a friend to weep my fate,
  Without a stone to tell my name."

We subjoin one more specimen of these "wild strains"[B] said to be "Written two years after
the preceding." ECCE ITERUM CRISPINUS.

  "I wish I was where Anna lies;
  For I am sick of lingering here,
  And every hour Affection cries,
  Go, and partake her humble bier.

  "I wish I could! for when she died
  I lost my all; and life has prov'd
  Since that sad hour a dreary void,
  A waste unlovely and unlov'd.

  "But who, when I am turn'd to clay,
  Shall duly to her grave repair,
  And pluck the ragged moss away,
  And weeds that have "no business there?"

  "And who, with pious hand, shall bring
  The flowers she cherish'd, snow-drops cold,
  And violets that unheeded spring,
  To scatter o'er her hallow'd mould?

  "And who, while Memory loves to dwell
  Upon her name for ever dear,
  Shall feel his heart with passion swell,
  And pour the bitter, bitter tear?

  "I did it; and would fate allow,
  Should visit still, should still deplore--
  But health and strength have left me now,
  But I, alas! can weep no more.

  "Take then, sweet maid! this simple strain,
  The last I offer at thy shrine;
  Thy grave must then undeck'd remain,
  And all thy memory fade with mine.

  "And can thy soft persuasive look,
  That voice that might with music vie,
  Thy air that every gazer took,
  Thy matchless eloquence of eye,

  "Thy spirits, frolicsome as good,
  Thy courage, by no ills dismay'd,
  Thy patience, by no wrongs subdued,
  Thy gay good-humour--can they "fade?"

  "Perhaps--but sorrow dims my eye:
  Cold turf, which I no more must view,
  Dear name, which I no more must sigh,
  A long, a last, a sad adieu!"

It may be said in extenuation of the low, mechanic vein of these impoverished lines, that they
were written at an early age--they were the inspired production of a youthful lover! Mr. Gifford
was thirty when he wrote them, Mr. Keats died when he was scarce twenty! Farther it may be
said, that Mr. Gifford hazarded his first poetical attempts under all the disadvantages of
a neglected education: but the same circumstance, together with a few unpruned redundancies
of fancy and quaintnesses of expression, was made the plea on which Mr. Keats was hooted out
of the world, and his fine talents and wounded sensibilities consigned to an early grave. In
short, the treatment of this heedless candidate for poetical fame might serve as a warning,
and was intended to serve as a warning to all unfledged tyros, how they venture upon any such
doubtful experiments, except under the auspices of some lord of the bedchamber or Government
Aristarchus, and how they imprudently associate themselves with men of mere popular talent
or independence of feeling!--It is the same in prose works. The Editor scorns to enter the
lists of argument with any proscribed writer of the opposite party. He does not refute, but
denounces him. He makes no concessions to an adversary, lest they should in some way be turned
against him. He only feels himself safe in the fancied insignificance of others: he only feels
himself superior to those whom he stigmatizes as the lowest of mankind. All persons are without
common-sense and honesty who do not believe implicitly (with him) in the immaculateness of
Ministers and the divine origin of Kings. Thus he informed the world that the author of TABLE-TALK
was a person who could not write a sentence of common English and could hardly spell his own
name, because he was not a friend to the restoration of the Bourbons, and had the assurance
to write Characters of Shakespears Plays in a style of criticism somewhat different from Mr.
Gifford's. He charged this writer with imposing on the public by a flowery style; and when
the latter ventured to refer to a work of his, called An Essay on the Principles of Human Action,
which has not a single ornament in it, as a specimen of his original studies and the proper
bias of his mind, the learned critic, with a shrug of great self-satisfaction, said, "It was
amusing to see this person, sitting like one of Brouwer's Dutch boors over his gin and tobacco-pipes,
and fancying himself a Leibnitz!" The question was, whether the subject of Mr. Gifford's censure
had ever written such a work or not; for if he had, he had amused himself with something besides
gin and tobacco-pipes. But our Editor, by virtue of the situation he holds, is superior to
facts or arguments: he is accountable neither to the public nor to authors for what he says
of them, but owes it to his employers to prejudice the work and vilify the writer, if the latter
is not avowedly ready to range himself on the stronger side.--The Quarterly Review, besides
the political tirades and denunciations of suspected writers, intended for the guidance of
the heads of families, is filled up with accounts of books of Voyages and Travels for the amusement
of the younger branches. The poetical department is almost a sinecure, consisting of mere summary
decisions and a list of quotations. Mr. Croker is understood to contribute the St. Helena articles
and the liberality, Mr. Canning the practical good sense, Mr. D'Israeli the good-nature, Mr.
Jacob the modesty, Mr. Southey the consistency, and the Editor himself the chivalrous spirit
and the attacks on Lady Morgan. It is a double crime, and excites a double portion of spleen
in the Editor, when female writers are not advocates of passive obedience and non-resistance.
This Journal, then, is a depository for every species of political sophistry and personal calumny.
There is no abuse or corruption that does not there find a jesuitical palliation or a bare-faced
vindication. There we meet the slime of hypocrisy, the varnish of courts, the cant of pedantry,
the cobwebs of the law, the iron hand of power. Its object is as mischievous as the means by
which it is pursued are odious. The intention is to poison the sources of public opinion and
of individual fame--to pervert literature, from being the natural ally of freedom and humanity,
into an engine of priestcraft and despotism, and to undermine the spirit of the English Constitution
and the independence of the English character. The Editor and his friends systematically explode
every principle of liberty, laugh patriotism and public spirit to scorn, resent every pretence
to integrity as a piece of singularity or insolence, and strike at the root of all free inquiry
or discussion, by running down every writer as a vile scribbler and a bad member of society,
who is not a hireling and a slave. No means are stuck at in accomplishing this laudable end.
Strong in patronage, they trample on truth, justice, and decency. They claim the privilege
of court-favourites. They keep as little faith with the public, as with their opponents. No
statement in the Quarterly Review is to be trusted: there is no fact that is not misrepresented
in it, no quotation that is not garbled, no character that is not slandered, if it can answer
the purposes of a party to do so. The weight of power, of wealth, of rank is thrown into the
scale, gives its impulse to the machine; and the whole is under the guidance of Mr. Gifford's
instinctive genius--of the inborn hatred of servility for independence, of dulness for talent,
of cunning and impudence for truth and honesty. It costs him no effort to execute his disreputable
task--in being the tool of a crooked policy, he but labours in his natural vocation. He patches
up a rotten system as he would supply the chasms in a worm-eaten manuscript, from a grovelling
incapacity to do any thing better; thinks that if a single iota in the claims of prerogative
and power were lost, the whole fabric of society would fall upon his head and crush him; and
calculates that his best chance for literary reputation is by black-balling one half of the
competitors as Jacobins and levellers, and securing the suffrages of the other half in his
favour as a loyal subject and trusty partisan!

Mr. Gifford, as a satirist, is violent and abrupt. He takes obvious or physical defects, and
dwells upon them with much labour and harshness of invective, but with very little wit or spirit.
He expresses a great deal of anger and contempt, but you cannot tell very well why--except
that he seems to be sore and out of humour. His satire is mere peevishness and spleen, or something
worse--personal antipathy and rancour. We are in quite as much pain for the writer, as for
the object of his resentment. His address to Peter Pindar is laughable from its outrageousness.
He denounces him as a wretch hateful to God and man, for some of the most harmless and amusing
trifles that ever were written--and the very good- humour and pleasantry of which, we suspect,
constituted their offence in the eyes of this Drawcansir.--His attacks on Mrs. Robinson were
unmanly, and even those on Mr. Merry and the Della-Cruscan School were much more ferocious
than the occasion warranted. A little affectation and quaintness of style did not merit such
severity of castigation.[C] As a translator, Mr. Gifford's version of the Roman satirist is
the baldest, and, in parts, the most offensive of all others. We do not know why he attempted
it, unless he had got it in his head that he should thus follow in the steps of Dryden, as
he had already done in those of Pope in the Baviad and Maeviad. As an editor of old authors,
Mr. Gifford is entitled to considerable praise for the pains he has taken in revising the text,
and for some improvements he has introduced into it. He had better have spared the notes, in
which, though he has detected the blunders of previous commentators, he has exposed his own
ill-temper and narrowness of feeling more. As a critic, he has thrown no light on the character
and spirit of his authors. He has shewn no striking power of analysis nor of original illustration,
though he has chosen to exercise his pen on writers most congenial to his own turn of mind,
from their dry and caustic vein; Massinger, and Ben Jonson. What he will make of Marlowe, it
is difficult to guess. He has none of "the fiery quality" of the poet. Mr. Gifford does not
take for his motto on these occasions--Spiritus precipitandus est!--His most successful efforts
in this way are barely respectable. In general, his observations are petty, ill-concocted,
and discover as little tact, as they do a habit of connected reasoning. Thus, for instance,
in attempting to add the name of Massinger to the list of Catholic poets, our minute critic
insists on the profusion of crucifixes, glories, angelic visions, garlands of roses, and clouds
of incense scattered through the Virgin-Martyr, as evidence of the theological sentiments meant
to be inculcated by the play, when the least reflection might have taught him, that they proved
nothing but the author's poetical conception of the character and costume of his subject. A
writer might, with the same sinister, short-sighted shrewdness, be accused of Heathenism for
talking of Flora and Ceres in a poem on the Seasons! What are produced as the exclusive badges
and occult proofs of Catholic bigotry, are nothing but the adventitious ornaments and external
symbols, the gross and sensible language, in a word, the poetry of Christianity in general.
What indeed shews the frivolousness of the whole inference is that Deckar, who is asserted
by our critic to have contributed some of the most passionate and fantastic of these devotional
scenes, is not even suspected of a leaning to Popery. In like manner, he excuses Massinger
for the grossness of one of his plots (that of the Unnatural Combat) by saying that it was
supposed to take place before the Christian era; by this shallow common-place persuading himself,
or fancying he could persuade others, that the crime in question (which yet on the very face
of the story is made the ground of a tragic catastrophe) was first made statutory by the Christian
religion.

The foregoing is a harsh criticism, and may be thought illiberal. But as Mr. Gifford assumes
a right to say what he pleases of others--they may be allowed to speak the truth of him!

[Footnote A: What an awkward bed-fellow for a tuft of violets!]

[Footnote B:

  "How oft, O Dart! what time the faithful pair
  Walk'd forth, the fragrant hour of eve to share,
  On thy romantic banks, have my wild strains
  (Not yet forgot amidst my native plains)
  While thou hast sweetly gurgled down the vale.
  Filled up the pause of love's delightful tale!
  While, ever as she read, the conscious maid,
  By faultering voice and downcast looks betray'd,
  Would blushing on her lover's neck recline,
  And with her finger--point the tenderest line!"

  Mæviad, pp. 194, 202.

Yet the author assures us just before, that in these "wild strains" "all was plain."

  "Even then (admire, John Bell! my simple ways)
  No heaven and hell danced madly through my lays,
  No oaths, no execrations; all was plain;
  Yet trust me, while thy ever jingling train
  Chime their sonorous woes with frigid art,
  And shock the reason and revolt the heart;
  My hopes and fears, in nature's language drest,
  Awakened love in many a gentle breast."

  Ibid. v. 185-92.

If any one else had composed these "wild strains," in which "all is plain," Mr. Gifford would
have accused them of three things, "1. Downright nonsense. 2. Downright frigidity. 3. Downright
doggrel;" and proceeded to anatomise them very cordially in his way. As it is, he is thrilled
with a very pleasing horror at his former scenes of tenderness, and "gasps at the recollection"
of watery Aquarius! he! jam satis est! "Why rack a grub--a butterfly upon a wheel?"]

[Footnote C: Mr. Merry was even with our author in personality of abuse. See his Lines on the
Story of the Ape that was given in charge to the ex-tutor.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. JEFFREY

The Quarterly Review arose out of the Edinburgh, not as a corollary, but in contradiction to
it. An article had appeared in the latter on Don Pedro Cevallos, which stung the Tories to
the quick by the free way in which it spoke of men and things, and something must be done to
check these escapades of the Edinburgh. It was not to be endured that the truth should out
in this manner, even occasionally and half in jest. A startling shock was thus given to established
prejudices, the mask was taken off from grave hypocrisy, and the most serious consequences
were to be apprehended. The persons who wrote in this Review seemed "to have their hands full
of truths", and now and then, in a fit of spleen or gaiety, let some of them fly; and while
this practice continued, it was impossible to say that the Monarchy or the Hierarchy was safe.
Some of the arrows glanced, others might stick, and in the end prove fatal. It was not the
principles of the Edinburgh Review, but the spirit that was looked at with jealousy and alarm.
The principles were by no means decidedly hostile to existing institutions: but the spirit
was that of fair and free discussion; a field was open to argument and wit; every question
was tried upon its own ostensible merits, and there was no foul play. The tone was that of
a studied impartiality (which many called trimming) or of a sceptical indifference. This tone
of impartiality and indifference, however, did not at all suit those who profited or existed
by abuses, who breathed the very air of corruption. They know well enough that "those who are
not for them are against them." They wanted a publication impervious alike to truth and candour;
that, hood-winked itself, should lead public opinion blindfold; that should stick at nothing
to serve the turn of a party; that should be the exclusive organ of prejudice, the sordid tool
of power; that should go the whole length of want of principle in palliating every dishonest
measure, of want of decency in defaming every honest man; that should prejudge every question,
traduce every opponent; that should give no quarter to fair inquiry or liberal sentiment; that
should be "ugly all over with hypocrisy", and present one foul blotch of servility, intolerance,
falsehood, spite, and ill-manners. The Quarterly Review was accordingly set up.

  "Sithence no fairy lights, no quickning ray,
  Nor stir of pulse, nor object to entice
  Abroad the spirits; but the cloister'd heart
  Sits squat at home, like Pagod in a niche
  Obscure!"

This event was accordingly hailed (and the omen has been fulfilled!) as a great relief to all
those of his Majesty's subjects who are firmly convinced that the only way to have things remain
exactly as they are is to put a stop to all inquiries whether they are right or wrong, and
that if you cannot answer a man's arguments, you may at least try to take away his character.

We do not implicitly bow to the political opinions, nor to the critical decisions of the Edinburgh
Review; but we must do justice to the talent with which they are supported, and to the tone
of manly explicitness in which they are delivered.[A] They are eminently characteristic of
the Spirit of the Age; as it is the express object of the Quarterly Review to discountenance
and extinguish that spirit, both in theory and practice. The Edinburgh Review stands upon the
ground of opinion; it asserts the supremacy of intellect: the pre-eminence it claims is from
an acknowledged superiority of talent and information and literary attainment, and it does
not build one tittle of its influence on ignorance, or prejudice, or authority, or personal
malevolence. It takes up a question, and argues it pro and con with great knowledge and boldness
and skill; it points out an absurdity, and runs it down, fairly, and according to the evidence
adduced. In the former case, its conclusions may be wrong, there may be a bias in the mind
of the writer, but he states the arguments and circumstances on both sides, from which a judgment
is to be formed--it is not his cue, he has neither the effrontery nor the meanness to falsify
facts or to suppress objections. In the latter case, or where a vein of sarcasm or irony is
resorted to, the ridicule is not barbed by some allusion (false or true) to private history;
the object of it has brought the infliction on himself by some literary folly or political
delinquency which is referred to as the understood and justifiable provocation, instead of
being held up to scorn as a knave for not being a tool, or as a blockhead for thinking for
himself. In the Edinburgh Review the talents of those on the opposite side are always extolled
pleno ore--in the Quarterly Review they are denied altogether, and the justice that is in this
way withheld from them is compensated by a proportionable supply of personal abuse. A man of
genius who is a lord, and who publishes with Mr. Murray, may now and then stand as good a chance
as a lord who is not a man of genius and who publishes with Messrs. Longman: but that is the
utmost extent of the impartiality of the Quarterly. From its account you would take Lord Byron
and Mr. Stuart Rose for two very pretty poets; but Mr. Moore's Magdalen Muse is sent to Bridewell
without mercy, to beat hemp in silk-stockings. In the Quarterly nothing is regarded but the
political creed or external circumstances of a writer: in the Edinburgh nothing is ever adverted
to but his literary merits. Or if there is a bias of any kind, it arises from an affectation
of magnanimity and candour in giving heaped measure to those on the aristocratic side in politics,
and in being critically severe on others. Thus Sir Walter Scott is lauded to the skies for
his romantic powers, without any allusion to his political demerits (as if this would be compromising
the dignity of genius and of criticism by the introduction of party-spirit)--while Lord Byron
is called to a grave moral reckoning. There is, however, little of the cant of morality in
the Edinburgh Review--and it is quite free from that of religion. It keeps to its province,
which is that of criticism--or to the discussion of debateable topics, and acquits itself in
both with force and spirit. This is the natural consequence of the composition of the two Reviews.
The one appeals with confidence to its own intellectual resources, to the variety of its topics,
to its very character and existence as a literary journal, which depend on its setting up no
pretensions but those which it can make good by the talent and ingenuity it can bring to bear
upon them--it therefore meets every question, whether of a lighter or a graver cast, on its
own grounds; the other blinks every question, for it has no confidence but in the powers that
be--shuts itself up in the impregnable fastnesses of authority, or makes some paltry, cowardly
attack (under cover of anonymous criticism) on individuals, or dispenses its award of merit
entirely according to the rank or party of the writer. The faults of the Edinburgh Review arise
out of the very consciousness of critical and logical power. In political questions it relies
too little on the broad basis of liberty and humanity, enters too much into mere dry formalities,
deals too often in moot-points, and descends too readily to a sort of special-pleading in defence
of home truths and natural feelings: in matters of taste and criticism, its tone is sometimes
apt to be supercilious and cavalier from its habitual faculty of analysing defects and beauties
according to given principles, from its quickness in deciding, from its facility in illustrating
its views. In this latter department it has been guilty of some capital oversights. The chief
was in its treatment of the Lyrical Ballads at their first appearance--not in its ridicule
of their puerilities, but in its denial of their beauties, because they were included in no
school, because they were reducible to no previous standard or theory of poetical excellence.
For this, however, considerable reparation has been made by the prompt and liberal spirit that
has been shewn in bringing forward other examples of poetical genius. Its capital sin, in a
doctrinal point of view, has been (we shrewdly suspect) in the uniform and unqualified encouragement
it has bestowed on Mr. Malthus's system. We do not mean that the Edinburgh Review was to join
in the general hue and cry that was raised against this writer; but while it asserted the soundness
of many of his arguments, and yielded its assent to the truths he has divulged, it need not
have screened his errors. On this subject alone we think the Quarterly has the advantage of
it. But as the Quarterly Review is a mere mass and tissue of prejudices on all subjects, it
is the foible of the Edinburgh Review to affect a somewhat fastidious air of superiority over
prejudices of all kinds, and a determination not to indulge in any of the amiable weaknesses
of our nature, except as it can give a reason for the faith that is in it. Luckily, it is seldom
reduced to this alternative: "reasons" are with it "as plenty as blackberries!"

Mr. Jeffrey is the Editor of the Edinburgh Review, and is understood to have contributed nearly
a fourth part of the articles from its commencement. No man is better qualified for this situation;
nor indeed so much so. He is certainly a person in advance of the age, and yet perfectly fitted
both from knowledge and habits of mind to put a curb upon its rash and headlong spirit. He
is thoroughly acquainted with the progress and pretensions of modern literature and philosophy;
and to this he adds the natural acuteness and discrimination of the logician with the habitual
caution and coolness of his profession. If the Edinburgh Review may be considered as the organ
of or at all pledged to a party, that party is at least a respectable one, and is placed in
the middle between two extremes. The Editor is bound to lend a patient hearing to the most
paradoxical opinions and extravagant theories which have resulted in our times from the "infinite
agitation of wit", but he is disposed to qualify them by a number of practical objections,
of speculative doubts, of checks and drawbacks, arising out of actual circumstances and prevailing
opinions, or the frailties of human nature. He has a great range of knowledge, an incessant
activity of mind; but the suspension of his judgment, the well-balanced moderation of his sentiments,
is the consequence of the very discursiveness of his reason. What may be considered as a commonplace
conclusion is often the result of a comprehensive view of all the circumstances of a case.
Paradox, violence, nay even originality of conception is not seldom owing to our dwelling long
and pertinaciously on some one part of a subject, instead of attending to the whole. Mr. Jeffrey
is neither a bigot nor an enthusiast. He is not the dupe of the prejudices of others, nor of
his own. He is not wedded to any dogma, he is not long the sport of any whim; before he can
settle in any fond or fantastic opinion, another starts up to match it, like beads on sparkling
wine. A too restless display of talent, a too undisguised statement of all that can be said
for and against a question, is perhaps the great fault that is to be attributed to him. Where
there is so much power and prejudice to contend with in the opposite scale, it may be thought
that the balance of truth can hardly be held with a slack or an even hand; and that the infusion
of a little more visionary speculation, of a little more popular indignation into the great
Whig Review would be an advantage both to itself and to the cause of freedom. Much of this
effect is chargeable less on an Epicurean levity of feeling or on party-trammels, than on real
sanguineness of disposition, and a certain fineness of professional tact. Our sprightly Scotchman
is not of a desponding and gloomy turn of mind. He argues well for the future hopes of mankind
from the smallest beginnings, watches the slow, gradual, reluctant growth of liberal views,
and smiling sees the aloe of Reform blossom at the end of a hundred years; while the habitual
subtlety of his mind makes him perceive decided advantages where vulgar ignorance or passion
sees only doubts and difficulty; and a flaw in an adversary's argument stands him instead of
the shout of a mob, the votes of a majority, or the fate of a pitched battle. The Editor is
satisfied with his own conclusions, and does not make himself uneasy about the fate of mankind.
The issue, he thinks, will verify his moderate and well-founded expectations.--We believe also
that late events have given a more decided turn to Mr. Jeffrey's mind, and that he feels that
as in the struggle between liberty and slavery, the views of the one party have been laid bare
with their success, so the exertions on the other side should become more strenuous, and a
more positive stand be made against the avowed and appalling encroachments of priestcraft and
arbitrary power.

The characteristics of Mr. Jeffrey's general style as a writer correspond, we think, with what
we have here stated as the characteristics of his mind. He is a master of the foils; he makes
an exulting display of the dazzling fence of wit and argument. His strength consists in great
range of knowledge, an equal familiarity with the principles and the details of a subject,
and in a glancing brilliancy and rapidity of style. Indeed, we doubt whether the brilliancy
of his manner does not resolve itself into the rapidity, the variety and aptness of his illustrations.
His pen is never at a loss, never stands still; and would dazzle for this reason alone, like
an eye that is ever in motion. Mr. Jeffrey is far from a flowery or affected writer; he has
few tropes or figures, still less any odd startling thoughts or quaint innovations in expression:--but
he has a constant supply of ingenious solutions and pertinent examples; he never proses, never
grows dull, never wears an argument to tatters; and by the number, the liveliness and facility
of his transitions, keeps up that appearance of vivacity, of novel and sparkling effect, for
which others are too often indebted to singularity of combination or tinsel ornaments.

It may be discovered, by a nice observer, that Mr. Jeffrey's style of composition is that of
a person accustomed to public speaking. There is no pause, no meagreness, no inanimateness,
but a flow, a redundance and volubility like that of a stream or of a rolling-stone. The language
is more copious than select, and sometimes two or three words perform the office of one. This
copiousness and facility is perhaps an advantage in extempore speaking, where no stop or break
is allowed in the discourse, and where any word or any number of words almost is better than
coming to a dead stand; but in written compositions it gives an air of either too much carelessness
or too much labour. Mr. Jeffrey's excellence, as a public speaker, has betrayed him into this
peculiarity. He makes fewer blots in addressing an audience than any one we remember to have
heard. There is not a hair's-breadth space between any two of his words, nor is there a single
expression either ill-chosen or out of its place. He speaks without stopping to take breath,
with ease, with point, with elegance, and without "spinning the thread of his verbosity finer
than the staple of his argument." He may be said to weave words into any shapes he pleases
for use or ornament, as the glass-blower moulds the vitreous fluid with his breath; and his
sentences shine like glass from their polished smoothness, and are equally transparent. His
style of eloquence, indeed, is remarkable for neatness, for correctness, and epigrammatic point;
and he has applied this as a standard to his written compositions, where the very same degree
of correctness and precision produces, from the contrast between writing and speaking, an agreeable
diffuseness, freedom, and animation. Whenever the Scotch advocate has appeared at the bar of
the English House of Lords, he has been admired by those who were in the habit of attending
to speeches there, as having the greatest fluency of language and the greatest subtlety of
distinction of any one of the profession. The law-reporters were as little able to follow him
from the extreme rapidity of his utterance as from the tenuity and evanescent nature of his
reasoning.

Mr. Jeffrey's conversation is equally lively, various, and instructive. There is no subject
on which he is not au fait: no company in which he is not ready to scatter his pearls for sport.
Whether it be politics, or poetry, or science, or anecdote, or wit, or raillery, he takes up
his cue without effort, without preparation, and appears equally incapable of tiring himself
or his hearers. His only difficulty seems to be not to speak, but to be silent. There is a
constitutional buoyancy and elasticity of mind about him that cannot subside into repose, much
less sink into dulness. There may be more original talkers, persons who occasionally surprise
or interest you more; few, if any, with a more uninterrupted flow of cheerfulness and animal
spirits, with a greater fund of information, and with fewer specimens of the bathos in their
conversation. He is never absurd, nor has he any favourite points which he is always bringing
forward. It cannot be denied that there is something bordering on petulance of manner, but
it is of that least offensive kind which may be accounted for from merit and from success,
and implies no exclusive pretensions nor the least particle of ill-will to others. On the contrary,
Mr. Jeffrey is profuse of his encomiums and admiration of others, but still with a certain
reservation of a right to differ or to blame. He cannot rest on one side of a question: he
is obliged by a mercurial habit and disposition to vary his point of view. If he is ever tedious,
it is from an excess of liveliness: he oppresses from a sense of airy lightness. He is always
setting out on a fresh scent: there are always relays of topics; the harness is put to, and
he rattles away as delightfully and as briskly as ever. New causes are called; he holds a brief
in his hand for every possible question. This is a fault. Mr. Jeffrey is not obtrusive, is
not impatient of opposition, is not unwilling to be interrupted; but what is said by another,
seems to make no impression on him; he is bound to dispute, to answer it, as if he was in Court,
or as if it were in a paltry Debating Society, where young beginners were trying their hands.
This is not to maintain a character, or for want of good-nature--it is a thoughtless habit.
He cannot help cross-examining a witness, or stating the adverse view of the question. He listens
not to judge, but to reply. In consequence of this, you can as little tell the impression your
observations make on him as what weight to assign to his. Mr. Jeffrey shines in mixed company;
he is not good in a tete-a-tete. You can only shew your wisdom or your wit in general society:
but in private your follies or your weaknesses are not the least interesting topics; and our
critic has neither any of his own to confess, nor does he take delight in hearing those of
others. Indeed in Scotland generally, the display of personal character, the indulging your
whims and humours in the presence of a friend, is not much encouraged--every one there is looked
upon in the light of a machine or a collection of topics. They turn you round like a cylinder
to see what use they can make of you, and drag you into a dispute with as little ceremony as
they would drag out an article from an Encyclopedia. They criticise every thing, analyse every
thing, argue upon every thing, dogmatise upon every thing; and the bundle of your habits, feelings,
humours, follies and pursuits is regarded by them no more than a bundle of old clothes. They
stop you in a sentiment by a question or a stare, and cut you short in a narrative by the time
of night. The accomplished and ingenious person of whom we speak, has been a little infected
by the tone of his countrymen--he is too didactic, too pugnacious, too full of electrical shocks,
too much like a voltaic battery, and reposes too little on his own excellent good sense, his
own love of ease, his cordial frankness of disposition and unaffected candour. He ought to
have belonged to us!

The severest of critics (as he has been sometimes termed) is the best-natured of men. Whatever
there may be of wavering or indecision in Mr. Jeffrey's reasoning, or of harshness in his critical
decisions, in his disposition there is nothing but simplicity and kindness. He is a person
that no one knows without esteeming, and who both in his public connections and private friendships,
shews the same manly uprightness and unbiassed independence of spirit. At a distance, in his
writings, or even in his manner, there may be something to excite a little uneasiness and apprehension:
in his conduct there is nothing to except against. He is a person of strict integrity himself,
without pretence or affectation; and knows how to respect this quality in others, without prudery
or intolerance. He can censure a friend or a stranger, and serve him effectually at the same
time. He expresses his disapprobation, but not as an excuse for closing up the avenues of his
liberality. He is a Scotchman without one particle of hypocrisy, of cant, of servility, or
selfishness in his composition. He has not been spoiled by fortune--has not been tempted by
power--is firm without violence, friendly without weakness--a critic and even-tempered, a casuist
and an honest man--and amidst the toils of his profession and the distractions of the world,
retains the gaiety, the unpretending carelessness and simplicity of youth. Mr. Jeffrey in his
person is slight, with a countenance of much expression, and a voice of great flexibility and
acuteness of tone.

There is a class of eloquence which has been described and particularly insisted on, under
the style and title of Irish Eloquence: there is another class which it is not absolutely unfair
to oppose to this, and that is the Scotch. The first of these is entirely the offspring of
impulse: the last of mechanism. The one is as full of fancy as it is bare of facts: the other
excludes all fancy, and is weighed down with facts. The one is all fire, the other all ice:
the one nothing but enthusiasm, extravagance, eccentricity; the other nothing but logical deductions,
and the most approved postulates. The one without scruple, nay, with reckless zeal, throws
the reins loose on the neck of the imagination: the other pulls up with a curbbridle, and starts
at every casual object it meets in the way as a bug-bear. The genius of Irish oratory stands
forth in the naked majesty of untutored nature, its eye glancing wildly round on all objects,
its tongue darting forked fire: the genius of Scottish eloquence is armed in all the panoply
of the schools; its drawling, ambiguous dialect seconds its circumspect dialectics; from behind
the vizor that guards its mouth and shadows its pent-up brows, it sees no visions but its own
set purpose, its own data, and its own dogmas. It "has no figures, nor no fantasies," but "those
which busy care draws in the brains of men," or which set off its own superior acquirements
and wisdom. It scorns to "tread the primrose path of dalliance"--it shrinks back from it as
from a precipice, and keeps in the iron rail-way of the understanding. Irish oratory, on the
contrary, is a sort of aeronaut: it is always going up in a balloon, and breaking its neck,
or coming down in the parachute. It is filled full with gaseous matter, with whim and fancy,
with alliteration and antithesis, with heated passion and bloated metaphors, that burst the
slender, silken covering of sense; and the airy pageant, that glittered in empty space and
rose in all the bliss of ignorance, flutters and sinks down to its native bogs! If the Irish
orator riots in a studied neglect of his subject and a natural confusion of ideas, playing
with words, ranging them into all sorts of fantastic combinations, because in the unlettered
void or chaos of his mind there is no obstacle to their coalescing into any shapes they please,
it must be confessed that the eloquence of the Scotch is encumbered with an excess of knowledge,
that it cannot get on for a crowd of difficulties, that it staggers under a load of topics,
that it is so environed in the forms of logic and rhetoric as to be equally precluded from
originality or absurdity, from beauty or deformity:--the plea of humanity is lost by going
through the process of law, the firm and manly tone of principle is exchanged for the wavering
and pitiful cant of policy, the living bursts of passion are reduced to a defunct common-place,
and all true imagination is buried under the dust and rubbish of learned models and imposing
authorities. If the one is a bodiless phantom, the other is a lifeless skeleton: if the one
in its feverish and hectic extravagance resembles a sick man's dream, the other is akin to
the sleep of death--cold, stiff, unfeeling, monumental! Upon the whole, we despair less of
the first than of the last, for the principle of life and motion is, after all, the primary
condition of all genius. The luxuriant wildness of the one may be disciplined, and its excesses
sobered down into reason; but the dry and rigid formality of the other can never burst the
shell or husk of oratory. It is true that the one is disfigured by the puerilities and affectation
of a Phillips; but then it is redeemed by the manly sense and fervour of a Plunket, the impassioned
appeals and flashes of wit of a Curran, and by the golden tide of wisdom, eloquence, and fancy,
that flowed from the lips of a Burke. In the other, we do not sink so low in the negative series;
but we get no higher in the ascending scale than a Mackintosh or a Brougham.[A] It may be suggested
that the late Lord Erskine enjoyed a higher reputation as an orator than either of these: but
he owed it to a dashing and graceful manner, to presence of mind, and to great animation in
delivering his sentiments. Stripped of these outward and personal advantages, the matter of
his speeches, like that of his writings, is nothing, or perfectly inert and dead. Mr. Brougham
is from the North of England, but he was educated in Edinburgh, and represents that school
of politics and political economy in the House. He differs from Sir James Mackintosh in this,
that he deals less in abstract principles, and more in individual details. He makes less use
of general topics, and more of immediate facts. Sir James is better acquainted with the balance
of an argument in old authors; Mr. Brougham with the balance of power in Europe. If the first
is better versed in the progress of history, no man excels the last in a knowledge of the course
of exchange. He is apprised of the exact state of our exports and imports, and scarce a ship
clears out its cargo at Liverpool or Hull, but he has notice of the bill of lading. Our colonial
policy, prison-discipline, the state of the Hulks, agricultural distress, commerce and manufactures,
the Bullion question, the Catholic question, the Bourbons or the Inquisition, "domestic treason,
foreign levy," nothing can come amiss to him--he is at home in the crooked mazes of rotten
boroughs, is not baffled by Scotch law, and can follow the meaning of one of Mr. Canning's
speeches. With so many resources, with such variety and solidity of information, Mr. Brougham
is rather a powerful and alarming, than an effectual debater. In so many details (which he
himself goes through with unwearied and unshrinking resolution) the spirit of the question
is lost to others who have not the same voluntary power of attention or the same interest in
hearing that he has in speaking; the original impulse that urged him forward is forgotten in
so wide a field, in so interminable a career. If he can, others cannot carry all he knows in
their heads at the same time; a rope of circumstantial evidence does not hold well together,
nor drag the unwilling mind along with it (the willing mind hurries on before it, and grows
impatient and absent)--he moves in an unmanageable procession of facts and proofs, instead
of coming to the point at once--and his premises (so anxious is he to proceed on sure and ample
grounds) overlay and block up his conclusion, so that you cannot arrive at it, or not till
the first fury and shock of the onset is over. The ball, from the too great width of the calibre
from which it is sent, and from striking against such a number of hard, projecting points,
is almost spent before it reaches its destination. He keeps a ledger or a debtor-and-creditor
account between the Government and the Country, posts so much actual crime, corruption, and
injustice against so much contingent advantage or sluggish prejudice, and at the bottom of
the page brings in the balance of indignation and contempt, where it is due. But people are
not to be calculated into contempt or indignation on abstract grounds; for however they may
submit to this process where their own interests are concerned, in what regards the public
good we believe they must see and feel instinctively, or not at all. There is (it is to be
lamented) a good deal of froth as well as strength in the popular spirit, which will not admit
of being decanted or served out in formal driblets; nor will spleen (the soul of Opposition)
bear to be corked up in square patent bottles, and kept for future use! In a word, Mr. Brougham's
is ticketed and labelled eloquence, registered and in numeros (like the successive parts of
a Scotch Encyclopedia)--it is clever, knowing, imposing, masterly, an extraordinary display
of clearness of head, of quickness and energy of thought, of application and industry; but
it is not the eloquence of the imagination or the heart, and will never save a nation or an
individual from perdition.

Mr. Brougham has one considerable advantage in debate: he is overcome by no false modesty,
no deference to others. But then, by a natural consequence or parity of reasoning, he has little
sympathy with other people, and is liable to be mistaken in the effect his arguments will have
upon them. He relies too much, among other things, on the patience of his hearers, and on his
ability to turn every thing to his own advantage. He accordingly goes to the full length of
his tether (in vulgar phrase) and often overshoots the mark. C'est dommage. He has no reserve
of discretion, no retentiveness of mind or check upon himself. He needs, with so much wit,

  "As much again to govern it."

He cannot keep a good thing or a shrewd piece of information in his possession, though the
letting it out should mar a cause. It is not that he thinks too much of himself, too little
of his cause: but he is absorbed in the pursuit of truth as an abstract inquiry, he is led
away by the headstrong and over-mastering activity of his own mind. He is borne along, almost
involuntarily, and not impossibly against his better judgment, by the throng and restlessness
of his ideas as by a crowd of people in motion. His perceptions are literal, tenacious, epileptic--his
understanding voracious of facts, and equally communicative of them--and he proceeds to

  "--------Pour out all as plain
  As downright Shippen or as old Montaigne"--

without either the virulence of the one or the bonhommie of the other. The repeated, smart,
unforeseen discharges of the truth jar those that are next him. He does not dislike this state
of irritation and collision, indulges his curiosity or his triumph, till by calling for more
facts or hazarding some extreme inference, he urges a question to the verge of a precipice,
his adversaries urge it over, and he himself shrinks back from the consequence--

  "Scared at the sound himself has made!"

Mr. Brougham has great fearlessness, but not equal firmness; and after going too far on the
forlorn hope, turns short round without due warning to others or respect for himself. He is
adventurous, but easily panic-struck; and sacrifices the vanity of self-opinion to the necessity
of self-preservation. He is too improvident for a leader, too petulant for a partisan; and
does not sufficiently consult those with whom he is supposed to act in concert. He sometimes
leaves them in the lurch, and is sometimes left in the lurch by them. He wants the principle
of co-operation. He frequently, in a fit of thoughtless levity, gives an unexpected turn to
the political machine, which alarms older and more experienced heads: if he was not himself
the first to get out of harm's way and escape from the danger, it would be well!--We hold,
indeed, as a general rule, that no man born or bred in Scotland can be a great orator, unless
he is a mere quack; or a great statesman unless he turns plain knave. The national gravity
is against the first: the national caution is against the last. To a Scotchman if a thing is,
it is; there is an end of the question with his opinion about it. He is positive and abrupt,
and is not in the habit of conciliating the feelings or soothing the follies of others. His
only way therefore to produce a popular effect is to sail with the stream of prejudice, and
to vent common dogmas, "the total grist, unsifted, husks and all," from some evangelical pulpit.
This may answer, and it has answered. On the other hand, if a Scotchman, born or bred, comes
to think at all of the feelings of others, it is not as they regard them, but as their opinion
reacts on his own interest and safety. He is therefore either pragmatical and offensive, or
if he tries to please, he becomes cowardly and fawning. His public spirit wants pliancy; his
selfish compliances go all lengths. He is as impracticable as a popular partisan, as he is
mischievous as a tool of Government. We do not wish to press this argument farther, and must
leave it involved in some degree of obscurity, rather than bring the armed intellect of a whole
nation on our heads.

Mr. Brougham speaks in a loud and unmitigated tone of voice, sometimes almost approaching to
a scream. He is fluent, rapid, vehement, full of his subject, with evidently a great deal to
say, and very regardless of the manner of saying it. As a lawyer, he has not hitherto been
remarkably successful. He is not profound in cases and reports, nor does he take much interest
in the peculiar features of a particular cause, or shew much adroitness in the management of
it. He carries too much weight of metal for ordinary and petty occasions: he must have a pretty
large question to discuss, and must make thorough-stitch work of it. He, however, had an encounter
with Mr. Phillips the other day, and shook all his tender blossoms, so that they fell to the
ground, and withered in an hour; but they soon bloomed again! Mr. Brougham writes almost, if
not quite, as well as he speaks. In the midst of an Election contest he comes out to address
the populace, and goes back to his study to finish an article for the Edinburgh Review; sometimes
indeed wedging three or four articles (in the shape of refaccimentos of his own pamphlets or
speeches in parliament) into a single number. Such indeed is the activity of his mind that
it appears to require neither repose, nor any other stimulus than a delight in its own exercise.
He can turn his hand to any thing, but he cannot be idle. There are few intellectual accomplishments
which he does not possess, and possess in a very high degree. He speaks French (and, we believe,
several other modern languages) fluently: is a capital mathematician, and obtained an introduction
to the celebrated Carnot in this latter character, when the conversation turned on squaring
the circle, and not on the propriety of confining France within the natural boundary of the
Rhine. Mr. Brougham is, in fact, a striking instance of the versatility and strength of the
human mind, and also in one sense of the length of human life, if we make a good use of our
time. There is room enough to crowd almost every art and science into it. If we pass "no day
without a line," visit no place without the company of a book, we may with ease fill libraries
or empty them of their contents. Those who complain of the shortness of life, let it slide
by them without wishing to seize and make the most of its golden minutes. The more we do, the
more we can do; the more busy we are, the more leisure we have. If any one possesses any advantage
in a considerable degree, he may make himself master of nearly as many more as he pleases,
by employing his spare time and cultivating the waste faculties of his mind. While one person
is determining on the choice of a profession or study, another shall have made a fortune or
gained a merited reputation. While one person is dreaming over the meaning of a word, another
will have learnt several languages. It is not incapacity, but indolence, indecision, want of
imagination, and a proneness to a sort of mental tautology, to repeat the same images and tread
the same circle, that leaves us so poor, so dull, and inert as we are, so naked of acquirement,
so barren of resources! While we are walking backwards and forwards between Charing-Cross and
Temple-Bar, and sitting in the same coffee-house every day, we might make the grand tour of
Europe, and visit the Vatican and the Louvre. Mr. Brougham, among other means of strengthening
and enlarging his views, has visited, we believe, most of the courts, and turned his attention
to most of the Constitutions of the continent. He is, no doubt, a very accomplished, active-minded,
and admirable person.

Sir Francis Burdett, in many respects, affords a contrast to the foregoing character. He is
a plain, unaffected, unsophisticated English gentleman. He is a person of great reading too
and considerable information, but he makes very little display of these, unless it be to quote
Shakespear, which he does often with extreme aptness and felicity. Sir Francis is one of the
most pleasing speakers in the House, and is a prodigious favourite of the English people. So
he ought to be: for he is one of the few remaining examples of the old English understanding
and old English character. All that he pretends to is common sense and common honesty; and
a greater compliment cannot be paid to these than the attention with which he is listened to
in the House of Commons. We cannot conceive a higher proof of courage than the saying things
which he has been known to say there; and we have seen him blush and appear ashamed of the
truths he has been obliged to utter, like a bashful novice. He could not have uttered what
he often did there, if, besides his general respectability, he had not been a very honest,
a very good-tempered, and a very good-looking man. But there was evidently no wish to shine,
nor any desire to offend: it was painful to him to hurt the feelings of those who heard him,
but it was a higher duty in him not to suppress his sincere and earnest convictions. It is
wonderful how much virtue and plain-dealing a man may be guilty of with impunity, if he has
no vanity, or ill-nature, or duplicity to provoke the contempt or resentment of others, and
to make them impatient of the superiority he sets up over them. We do not recollect that Sir
Francis ever endeavoured to atone for any occasional indiscretions or intemperance by giving
the Duke of York credit for the battle of Waterloo, or congratulating Ministers on the confinement
of Buonaparte at St. Helena. There is no honest cause which he dares not avow: no oppressed
individual that he is not forward to succour. He has the firmness of manhood with the unimpaired
enthusiasm of youthful feeling about him. His principles are mellowed and improved, without
having become less sound with time: for at one period he sometimes appeared to come charged
to the House with the petulance and caustic sententiousness he had imbibed at Wimbledon Common.
He is never violent or in extremes, except when the people or the parliament happen to be out
of their senses; and then he seems to regret the necessity of plainly telling them he thinks
so, instead of pluming himself upon it or exulting over impending calamities. There is only
one error he seems to labour under (which, we believe, he also borrowed from Mr. Horne Tooke
or Major Cartwright), the wanting to go back to the early times of our Constitution and history
in search of the principles of law and liberty. He might as well

  "Hunt half a day for a forgotten dream."

Liberty, in our opinion, is but a modern invention (the growth of books and printing)--and
whether new or old, is not the less desirable. A man may be a patriot, without being an antiquary.
This is the only point on which Sir Francis is at all inclined to a tincture of pedantry. In
general, his love of liberty is pure, as it is warm and steady: his humanity is unconstrained
and free. His heart does not ask leave of his head to feel; nor does prudence always keep a
guard upon his tongue or his pen. No man writes a better letter to his Constituents than the
member for Westminster; and his compositions of that kind ought to be good, for they have occasionally
cost him dear. He is the idol of the people of Westminster: few persons have a greater number
of friends and well-wishers; and he has still greater reason to be proud of his enemies, for
his integrity and independence have made them so. Sir Francis Burdett has often been left in
a Minority in the House of Commons, with only one or two on his side. We suspect, unfortunately
for his country, that History will be found to enter its protest on the same side of the question!

[Footnote A: Mr. Brougham is not a Scotchman literally, but by adoption.]

       *       *       *       *       *

LORD ELDON AND MR. WILBERFORCE.

Lord Eldon is an exceedingly good-natured man; but this does not prevent him, like other good-natured
people, from consulting his own ease or interest. The character of good-nature, as it is called,
has been a good deal mistaken; and the present Chancellor is not a bad illustration of the
grounds of the prevailing error. When we happen to see an individual whose countenance is "all
tranquillity and smiles;" who is full of good-humour and pleasantry; whose manners are gentle
and conciliating; who is uniformly temperate in his expressions, and punctual and just in his
every-day dealings; we are apt to conclude from so fair an outside, that

  "All is conscience and tender heart"

within also, and that such a one would not hurt a fly. And neither would he without a motive.
But mere good-nature (or what passes in the world for such) is often no better than indolent
selfishness. A person distinguished and praised for this quality will not needlessly offend
others, because they may retaliate; and besides, it ruffles his own temper. He likes to enjoy
a perfect calm, and to live in an interchange of kind offices. He suffers few things to irritate
or annoy him. He has a fine oiliness in his disposition, which smooths the waves of passion
as they rise. He does not enter into the quarrels or enmities of others; bears their calamities
with patience; he listens to the din and clang of war, the earthquake and the hurricane of
the political and moral world with the temper and spirit of a philosopher; no act of injustice
puts him beside himself, the follies and absurdities of mankind never give him a moment's uneasiness,
he has none of the ordinary causes of fretfulness or chagrin that torment others from the undue
interest they take in the conduct of their neighbours or in the public good. None of these
idle or frivolous sources of discontent, that make such havoc with the peace of human life,
ever discompose his features or alter the serenity of his pulse. If a nation is robbed of its
rights,

  "If wretches hang that Ministers may dine,"--

the laughing jest still collects in his eye, the cordial squeeze of the hand is still the same.
But tread on the toe of one of these amiable and imperturbable mortals, or let a lump of soot
fall down the chimney and spoil their dinners, and see how they will bear it. All their patience
is confined to the accidents that befal others: all their good-humour is to be resolved into
giving themselves no concern about any thing but their own ease and self-indulgence. Their
charity begins and ends at home. Their being free from the common infirmities of temper is
owing to their indifference to the common feelings of humanity; and if you touch the sore place,
they betray more resentment, and break out (like spoiled children) into greater fractiousness
than others, partly from a greater degree of selfishness, and partly because they are taken
by surprise, and mad to think they have not guarded every point against annoyance or attack,
by a habit of callous insensibility and pampered indolence.

An instance of what we mean occurred but the other day. An allusion was made in the House of
Commons to something in the proceedings in the Court of Chancery, and the Lord Chancellor comes
to his place in the Court, with the statement in his hand, fire in his eyes, and a direct charge
of falsehood in his mouth, without knowing any thing certain of the matter, without making
any inquiry into it, without using any precaution or putting the least restraint upon himself,
and all on no better authority than a common newspaper report. The thing was (not that we are
imputing any strong blame in this case, we merely bring it as an illustration) it touched himself,
his office, the inviolability of his jurisdiction, the unexceptionableness of his proceedings,
and the wet blanket of the Chancellor's temper instantly took fire like tinder! All the fine
balancing was at an end; all the doubts, all the delicacy, all the candour real or affected,
all the chances that there might be a mistake in the report, all the decencies to be observed
towards a Member of the House, are overlooked by the blindness of passion, and the wary Judge
pounces upon the paragraph without mercy, without a moment's delay, or the smallest attention
to forms! This was indeed serious business, there was to be no trifling here; every instant
was an age till the Chancellor had discharged his sense of indignation on the head of the indiscreet
interloper on his authority. Had it been another person's case, another person's dignity that
had been compromised, another person's conduct that had been called in question, who doubts
but that the matter might have stood over till the next term, that the Noble Lord would have
taken the Newspaper home in his pocket, that he would have compared it carefully with other
newspapers, that he would have written in the most mild and gentlemanly terms to the Honourable
Member to inquire into the truth of the statement, that he would have watched a convenient
opportunity good-humouredly to ask other Honourable Members what all this was about, that the
greatest caution and fairness would have been observed, and that to this hour the lawyers'
clerks and the junior counsel would have been in the greatest admiration of the Chancellor's
nicety of discrimination, and the utter inefficacy of the heats, importunities, haste, and
passions of others to influence his judgment? This would have been true; yet his readiness
to decide and to condemn where he himself is concerned, shews that passion is not dead in him,
nor subject to the controul of reason; but that self-love is the main-spring that moves it,
though on all beyond that limit he looks with the most perfect calmness and philosophic indifference.

  "Resistless passion sways us to the mood
  Of what it likes or loaths."

All people are passionate in what concerns themselves, or in what they take an interest in.
The range of this last is different in different persons; but the want of passion is but another
name for the want of sympathy and imagination.

The Lord Chancellor's impartiality and conscientious exactness is proverbial; and is, we believe,
as inflexible as it is delicate in all cases that occur in the stated routine of legal practice.
The impatience, the irritation, the hopes, the fears, the confident tone of the applicants
move him not a jot from his intended course, he looks at their claims with the "lack lustre
eye" of prefessional indifference. Power and influence apart, his next strongest passion is
to indulge in the exercise of professional learning and skill, to amuse himself with the dry
details and intricate windings of the law of equity. He delights to balance a straw, to see
a feather turn the scale, or make it even again; and divides and subdivides a scruple to the
smallest fraction. He unravels the web of argument and pieces it together again; folds it up
and lays it aside, that he may examine it more at his leisure. He hugs indecision to his breast,
and takes home a modest doubt or a nice point to solace himself with it in protracted, luxurious
dalliance. Delay seems, in his mind, to be of the very essence of justice. He no more hurries
through a question than if no one was waiting for the result, and he was merely a dilettanti,
fanciful judge, who played at my Lord Chancellor, and busied himself with quibbles and punctilios
as an idle hobby and harmless illusion. The phlegm of the Chancellor's disposition gives one
almost a surfeit of impartiality and candour: we are sick of the eternal poise of childish
dilatoriness; and would wish law and justice to be decided at once by a cast of the dice (as
they were in Rabelais) rather than be kept in frivolous and tormenting suspense. But there
is a limit even to this extreme refinement and scrupulousness of the Chancellor. The understanding
acts only in the absence of the passions. At the approach of the loadstone, the needle trembles,
and points to it. The air of a political question has a wonderful tendency to brace and quicken
the learned Lord's faculties. The breath of a court speedily oversets a thousand objections,
and scatters the cobwebs of his brain. The secret wish of power is a thumping make-weight,
where all is so nicely-balanced beforehand. In the case of a celebrated beauty and heiress,
and the brother of a Noble Lord, the Chancellor hesitated long, and went through the forms,
as usual: but who ever doubted, where all this indecision would end? No man in his senses,
for a single instant! We shall not press this point, which is rather a ticklish one. Some persons
thought that from entertaining a fellow-feeling on the subject, the Chancellor would have been
ready to favour the Poet-Laureat's application to the Court of Chancery for an injunction against
Wat Tyler. His Lordship's sentiments on such points are not so variable, he has too much at
stake. He recollected the year 1794, though Mr. Southey had forgotten it!--

The personal always prevails over the intellectual, where the latter is not backed by strong
feeling and principle. Where remote and speculative objects do not excite a predominant interest
and passion, gross and immediate ones are sure to carry the day, even in ingenuous and well-disposed
minds. The will yields necessarily to some motive or other; and where the public good or distant
consequences excite no sympathy in the breast, either from short-sightedness or an easiness
of temperament that shrinks from any violent effort or painful emotion, self-interest, indolence,
the opinion of others, a desire to please, the sense of personal obligation, come in and fill
up the void of public spirit, patriotism, and humanity. The best men in the world in their
own natural dispositions or in private life (for this reason) often become the most dangerous
public characters, from their pliancy to the unruly passions of others, and from their having
no set-off in strong moral stamina to the temptations that are held out to them, if, as is
frequently the case, they are men of versatile talent or patient industry.--Lord Eldon has
one of the best-natured faces in the world; it is pleasant to meet him in the street, plodding
along with an umbrella under his arm, without one trace of pride, of spleen, or discontent
in his whole demeanour, void of offence, with almost rustic simplicity and honesty of appearance--a
man that makes friends at first sight, and could hardly make enemies, if he would; and whose
only fault is that he cannot say Nay to power, or subject himself to an unkind word or look
from a King or a Minister. He is a thorough-bred Tory. Others boggle or are at fault in their
career, or give back at a pinch, they split into different factions, have various objects to
distract them, their private friendships or antipathies stand in their way; but he has never
flinched, never gone back, never missed his way, he is an out-and-outer in this respect, his
allegiance has been without flaw, like "one entire and perfect chrysolite," his implicit understanding
is a kind of taffeta-lining to the Crown, his servility has assumed an air of the most determined
independence, and he has

  "Read his history in a Prince's eyes!"--

There has been no stretch of power attempted in his time that he has not seconded: no existing
abuse, so odious or so absurd, that he has not sanctioned it. He has gone the whole length
of the most unpopular designs of Ministers. When the heavy artillery of interest, power, and
prejudice is brought into the field, the paper pellets of the brain go for nothing: his labyrinth
of nice, lady-like doubts explodes like a mine of gun-powder. The Chancellor may weigh and
palter--the courtier is decided, the politician is firm, and rivetted to his place in the Cabinet!
On all the great questions that have divided party opinion or agitated the public mind, the
Chancellor has been found uniformly and without a single exception on the side of prerogative
and power, and against every proposal for the advancement of freedom. He was a strenuous supporter
of the wars and coalitions against the principles of liberty abroad; he has been equally zealous
in urging or defending every act and infringement of the Constitution, for abridging it at
home: he at the same time opposes every amelioration of the penal laws, on the alleged ground
of his abhorrence of even the shadow of innovation: he has studiously set his face against
Catholic emancipation; he laboured hard in his vocation to prevent the abolition of the Slave
Trade; he was Attorney General in the trials for High Treason in 1794; and the other day in
giving his opinion on the Queen's Trial, shed tears and protested his innocence before God!
This was natural and to be expected; but on all occasions he is to be found at his post, true
to the call of prejudice, of power, to the will of others and to his own interest. In the whole
of his public career, and with all the goodness of his disposition, he has not shewn "so small
a drop of pity as a wren's eye." He seems to be on his guard against every thing liberal and
humane as his weak side. Others relax in their obsequiousness either from satiety or disgust,
or a hankering after popularity, or a wish to be thought above narrow prejudices. The Chancellor
alone is fixed and immoveable. Is it want of understanding or of principle? No--it is want
of imagination, a phlegmatic habit, an excess of false complaisance and good-nature ... Common
humanity and justice are little better than vague terms to him: he acts upon his immediate
feelings and least irksome impulses. The King's hand is velvet to the touch--the Woolsack is
a seat of honour and profit! That is all he knows about the matter. As to abstract metaphysical
calculations, the ox that stands staring at the corner of the street troubles his head as much
about them as he does: yet this last is a very good sort of animal with no harm or malice in
him, unless he is goaded on to mischief, and then it is necessary to keep out of his way, or
warn others against him!

Mr. Wilberforce is a less perfect character in his way. He acts from mixed motives. He would
willingly serve two masters, God and Mammon. He is a person of many excellent and admirable
qualifications, but he has made a mistake in wishing to reconcile those that are incompatible.
He has a most winning eloquence, specious, persuasive, familiar, silver-tongued, is amiable,
charitable, conscientious, pious, loyal, humane, tractable to power, accessible to popularity,
honouring the king, and no less charmed with the homage of his fellow-citizens. "What lacks
he then?" Nothing but an economy of good parts. By aiming at too much, he has spoiled all,
and neutralised what might have been an estimable character, distinguished by signal services
to mankind. A man must take his choice not only between virtue and vice, but between different
virtues. Otherwise, he will not gain his own approbation, or secure the respect of others.
The graces and accomplishments of private life mar the man of business and the statesman. There
is a severity, a sternness, a self-denial, and a painful sense of duty required in the one,
which ill befits the softness and sweetness which should characterise the other. Loyalty, patriotism,
friendship, humanity, are all virtues; but may they not sometimes clash? By being unwilling
to forego the praise due to any, we may forfeit the reputation of all; and instead of uniting
the suffrages of the whole world in our favour, we may end in becoming a sort of bye-word for
affectation, cant, hollow professions, trimming, fickleness, and effeminate imbecility. It
is best to choose and act up to some one leading character, as it is best to have some settled
profession or regular pursuit in life.

We can readily believe that Mr. Wilberforce's first object and principle of action is to do
what he thinks right: his next (and that we fear is of almost equal weight with the first)
is to do what will be thought so by other people. He is always at a game of hawk and buzzard
between these two: his "conscience will not budge," unless the world goes with it. He does
not seem greatly to dread the denunciation in Scripture, but rather to court it--"Woe unto
you, when all men shall speak well of you!" We suspect he is not quite easy in his mind, because
West-India planters and Guinea traders do not join in his praise. His ears are not strongly
enough tuned to drink in the execrations of the spoiler and the oppressor as the sweetest music.
It is not enough that one half of the human species (the images of God carved in ebony, as
old Fuller calls them) shout his name as a champion and a saviour through vast burning zones,
and moisten their parched lips with the gush of gratitude for deliverance from chains--he must
have a Prime-Minister drink his health at a Cabinet-dinner for aiding to rivet on those of
his country and of Europe! He goes hand and heart along with Government in all their notions
of legitimacy and political aggrandizement, in the hope that they will leave him a sort of
no-man's ground of humanity in the Great Desert, where his reputation for benevolence and public
spirit may spring up and flourish, till its head touches the clouds, and it stretches out its
branches to the farthest part of the earth. He has no mercy on those who claim a property in
negro-slaves as so much live-stock on their estates; the country rings with the applause of
his wit, his eloquence, and his indignant appeals to common sense and humanity on this subject--but
not a word has he to say, not a whisper does he breathe against the claim set up by the Despots
of the Earth over their Continental subjects, but does every thing in his power to confirm
and sanction it! He must give no offence. Mr. Wilberforce's humanity will go all lengths that
it can with safety and discretion: but it is not to be supposed that it should lose him his
seat for Yorkshire, the smile of Majesty, or the countenance of the loyal and pious. He is
anxious to do all the good he can without hurting himself or his fair fame. His conscience
and his character compound matters very amicably. He rather patronises honesty than is a martyr
to it. His patriotism, his philanthropy are not so ill-bred, as to quarrel with his loyalty
or to banish him from the first circles. He preaches vital Christianity to untutored savages;
and tolerates its worst abuses in civilized states. He thus shews his respect for religion
without offending the clergy, or circumscribing the sphere of his usefulness. There is in all
this an appearance of a good deal of cant and tricking. His patriotism may be accused of being
servile; his humanity ostentatious; his loyalty conditional; his religion a mixture of fashion
and fanaticism. "Out upon such half-faced fellowship!" Mr. Wilberforce has the pride of being
familiar with the great; the vanity of being popular; the conceit of an approving conscience.
He is coy in his approaches to power; his public spirit is, in a manner, under the rose. He
thus reaps the credit of independence, without the obloquy; and secures the advantages of servility,
without incurring any obligations. He has two strings to his bow:--he by no means neglects
his worldly interests, while he expects a bright reversion in the skies. Mr. Wilberforce is
far from being a hypocrite; but he is, we think, as fine a specimen of moral equivocation as
can well be conceived. A hypocrite is one who is the very reverse of, or who despises the character
he pretends to be: Mr. Wilberforce would be all that he pretends to be, and he is it in fact,
as far as words, plausible theories, good inclinations, and easy services go, but not in heart
and soul, or so as to give up the appearance of any one of his pretensions to preserve the
reality of any other. He carefully chooses his ground to fight the battles of loyalty, religion,
and humanity, and it is such as is always safe and advantageous to himself! This is perhaps
hardly fair, and it is of dangerous or doubtful tendency. Lord Eldon, for instance, is known
to be a thorough-paced ministerialist: his opinion is only that of his party. But Mr. Wilberforce
is not a party-man. He is the more looked up to on this account, but not with sufficient reason.
By tampering with different temptations and personal projects, he has all the air of the most
perfect independence, and gains a character for impartiality and candour, when he is only striking
a balance in his mind between the éclat of differing from a Minister on some 'vantage ground,
and the risk or odium that may attend it. He carries all the weight of his artificial popularity
over to the Government on vital points and hard-run questions; while they, in return, lend
him a little of the gilding of court-favour to set off his disinterested philanthropy and tramontane
enthusiasm. As a leader or a follower, he makes an odd jumble of interests. By virtue of religious
sympathy, he has brought the Saints over to the side of the abolition of Negro slavery. This
his adversaries think hard and stealing a march upon them. What have the SAINTS to do with
freedom or reform of any kind?--Mr. Wilberforce's style of speaking is not quite parliamentary,
it is halfway between that and evangelical. He is altogether a double-entendre: the very tone
of his voice is a double-entendre. It winds, and undulates, and glides up and down on texts
of Scripture, and scraps from Paley, and trite sophistry, and pathetic appeals to his hearers
in a faltering, inprogressive, sidelong way, like those birds of weak wing, that are borne
from their strait-forward course

  "By every little breath that under heaven is blown."

Something of this fluctuating, time-serving principle was visible even in the great question
of the Abolition of the Slave Trade. He was, at one time, half inclined to surrender it into
Mr. Pitt's dilatory hands, and seemed to think the gloss of novelty was gone from it, and the
gaudy colouring of popularity sunk into the sable ground from which it rose! It was, however,
persisted in and carried to a triumphant conclusion. Mr. Wilberforce said too little on this
occasion of one, compared with whom he was but the frontispiece to that great chapter in the
history of the world--the mask, the varnishing, and painting--the man that effected it by Herculean
labours of body, and equally gigantic labours of mind was Clarkson, the true Apostle of human
Redemption on that occasion, and who, it is remarkable, resembles in his person and lineaments
more than one of the Apostles in the Cartoons of Raphael. He deserves to be added to the Twelve![A]

[Footnote A: After all, the best as well as most amusing comment on the character just described
was that made by Sheridan, who being picked up in no very creditable plight by the watch, and
asked rather roughly who he was, made answer--"I am Mr. Wilberforce!" The guardians of the
night conducted him home with all the honours due to Grace and Nature.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. SOUTHEY.

Mr. Southey, as we formerly remember to have seen him, had a hectic flush upon his cheek, a
roving fire in his eye, a falcon glance, a look at once aspiring and dejected--it was the look
that had been impressed upon his face by the events that marked the outset of his life, it
was the dawn of Liberty that still tinged his cheek, a smile betwixt hope and sadness that
still played upon his quivering lip. Mr. Southey's mind is essentially sanguine, even to over-weeningness.
It is prophetic of good; it cordially embraces it; it casts a longing, lingering look after
it, even when it is gone for ever. He cannot bear to give up the thought of happiness, his
confidence in his fellow-man, when all else despair. It is the very element, "where he must
live or have no life at all." While he supposed it possible that a better form of society could
be introduced than any that had hitherto existed, while the light of the French Revolution
beamed into his soul (and long after, it was seen reflected on his brow, like the light of
setting suns on the peak of some high mountain, or lonely range of clouds, floating in purer
ether!) while he had this hope, this faith in man left, he cherished it with child-like simplicity,
he clung to it with the fondness of a lover, he was an enthusiast, a fanatic, a leveller; he
stuck at nothing that he thought would banish all pain and misery from the world--in his impatience
of the smallest error or injustice, he would have sacrificed himself and the existing generation
(a holocaust) to his devotion to the right cause. But when he once believed after many staggering
doubts and painful struggles, that this was no longer possible, when his chimeras and golden
dreams of human perfectibility vanished from him, he turned suddenly round, and maintained
that "whatever is, is right." Mr. Southey has not fortitude of mind, has not patience to think
that evil is inseparable from the nature of things. His irritable sense rejects the alternative
altogether, as a weak stomach rejects the food that is distasteful to it. He hopes on against
hope, he believes in all unbelief. He must either repose on actual or on imaginary good. He
missed his way in Utopia, he has found it at Old Sarum--

  "His generous ardour no cold medium knows:"

his eagerness admits of no doubt or delay. He is ever in extremes, and ever in the wrong!

The reason is, that not truth, but self-opinion is the ruling principle of Mr. Southey's mind.
The charm of novelty, the applause of the multitude, the sanction of power, the venerableness
of antiquity, pique, resentment, the spirit of contradiction have a good deal to do with his
preferences. His inquiries are partial and hasty: his conclusions raw and unconcocted, and
with a considerable infusion of whim and humour and a monkish spleen. His opinions are like
certain wines, warm and generous when new; but they will not keep, and soon turn flat or sour,
for want of a stronger spirit of the understanding to give a body to them. He wooed Liberty
as a youthful lover, but it was perhaps more as a mistress than a bride; and he has since wedded
with an elderly and not very reputable lady, called Legitimacy. A wilful man, according to
the Scotch proverb, must have his way. If it were the cause to which he was sincerely attached,
he would adhere to it through good report and evil report; but it is himself to whom he does
homage, and would have others do so; and he therefore changes sides, rather than submit to
apparent defeat or temporary mortification. Abstract principle has no rule but the understood
distinction between right and wrong; the indulgence of vanity, of caprice, or prejudice is
regulated by the convenience or bias of the moment. The temperament of our politician's mind
is poetical, not philosophical. He is more the creature of impulse, than he is of reflection.
He invents the unreal, he embellishes the false with the glosses of fancy, but pays little
attention to "the words of truth and soberness." His impressions are accidental, immediate,
personal, instead of being permanent and universal. Of all mortals he is surely the most impatient
of contradiction, even when he has completely turned the tables on himself. Is not this very
inconsistency the reason? Is he not tenacious of his opinions, in proportion as they are brittle
and hastily formed? Is he not jealous of the grounds of his belief, because he fears they will
not bear inspection, or is conscious he has shifted them? Does he not confine others to the
strict line of orthodoxy, because he has himself taken every liberty? Is he not afraid to look
to the right or the left, lest he should see the ghosts of his former extravagances staring
him in the face? Does he not refuse to tolerate the smallest shade of difference in others,
because he feels that he wants the utmost latitude of construction for differing so widely
from himself? Is he not captious, dogmatical, petulant in delivering his sentiments, according
as he has been inconsistent, rash, and fanciful in adopting them? He maintains that there can
be no possible ground for differing from him, because he looks only at his own side of the
question! He sets up his own favourite notions as the standard of reason and honesty, because
he has changed from one extreme to another! He treats his opponents with contempt, because
he is himself afraid of meeting with disrespect! He says that "a Reformer is a worse character
than a house-breaker," in order to stifle the recollection that he himself once was one!

We must say that "we relish Mr. Southey more in the Reformer" than in his lately acquired,
but by no means natural or becoming character of poet-laureat and courtier. He may rest assured
that a garland of wild flowers suits him better than the laureat-wreath: that his pastoral
odes and popular inscriptions were far more adapted to his genius than his presentation-poems.
He is nothing akin to birth-day suits and drawing-room fopperies. "He is nothing, if not fantastical."
In his figure, in his movements, in his sentiments, he is sharp and angular, quaint and eccentric.
Mr. Southey is not of the court, courtly. Every thing of him and about him is from the people.
He is not classical, he is not legitimate. He is not a man cast in the mould of other men's
opinions: he is not shaped on any model: he bows to no authority: he yields only to his own
wayward peculiarities. He is wild, irregular, singular, extreme. He is no formalist, not he!
All is crude and chaotic, self-opinionated, vain. He wants proportion, keeping, system, standard
rules. He is not teres et rotundus. Mr. Southey walks with his chin erect through the streets
of London, and with an umbrella sticking out under his arm, in the finest weather. He has not
sacrificed to the Graces, nor studied decorum. With him every thing is projecting, starting
from its place, an episode, a digression, a poetic license. He does not move in any given orbit,
but like a falling star, shoots from his sphere. He is pragmatical, restless, unfixed, full
of experiments, beginning every thing a-new, wiser than his betters, judging for himself, dictating
to others. He is decidedly revolutionary. He may have given up the reform of the State: but
depend upon it, he has some other hobby of the same kind. Does he not dedicate to his present
Majesty that extraordinary poem on the death of his father, called The Vision of Judgment,
as a specimen of what might be done in English hexameters? In a court-poem all should be trite
and on an approved model. He might as well have presented himself at the levee in a fancy or
masquerade dress. Mr. Southey was not to try conclusions with Majesty--still less on such an
occasion. The extreme freedoms with departed greatness, the party-petulance carried to the
Throne of Grace, the unchecked indulgence of private humour, the assumption of infallibility
and even of the voice of Heaven in this poem, are pointed instances of what we have said. They
shew the singular state of over-excitement of Mr. Southey's mind, and the force of old habits
of independent and unbridled thinking, which cannot be kept down even in addressing his Sovereign!
Look at Mr. Southey's larger poems, his Kehama, his Thalaba, his Madoc, his Roderic. Who will
deny the spirit, the scope, the splendid imagery, the hurried and startling interest that pervades
them? Who will say that they are not sustained on fictions wilder than his own Glendoveer,
that they are not the daring creations of a mind curbed by no law, tamed by no fear, that they
are not rather like the trances than the waking dreams of genius, that they are not the very
paradoxes of poetry? All this is very well, very intelligible, and very harmless, if we regard
the rank excrescences of Mr. Southey's poetry, like the red and blue flowers in corn, as the
unweeded growth of a luxuriant and wandering fancy; or if we allow the yeasty workings of an
ardent spirit to ferment and boil over--the variety, the boldness, the lively stimulus given
to the mind may then atone for the violation of rules and the offences to bed-rid authority;
but not if our poetic libertine sets up for a law-giver and judge, or an apprehender of vagrants
in the regions either of taste or opinion. Our motley gentleman deserves the strait-waistcoat,
if he is for setting others in the stocks of servility, or condemning them to the pillory for
a new mode of rhyme or reason. Or if a composer of sacred Dramas on classic models, or a translator
of an old Latin author (that will hardly bear translation) or a vamper-up of vapid cantos and
Odes set to music, were to turn pander to prescription and palliater of every dull, incorrigible
abuse, it would not be much to be wondered at or even regretted. But in Mr. Southey it was
a lamentable falling-off. It is indeed to be deplored, it is a stain on genius, a blow to humanity,
that the author of Joan of Arc--that work in which the love of Liberty is exhaled like the
breath of spring, mild, balmy, heaven-born, that is full of tears and virgin-sighs, and yearnings
of affection after truth and good, gushing warm and crimsoned from the heart--should ever after
turn to folly, or become the advocate of a rotten cause. After giving up his heart to that
subject, he ought not (whatever others might do) ever to have set his foot within the threshold
of a court. He might be sure that he would not gain forgiveness or favour by it, nor obtain
a single cordial smile from greatness. All that Mr. Southey is or that he does best, is independent,
spontaneous, free as the vital air he draws--when he affects the courtier or the sophist, he
is obliged to put a constraint upon himself, to hold in his breath, he loses his genius, and
offers a violence to his nature. His characteristic faults are the excess of a lively, unguarded
temperament:--oh! let them not degenerate into cold-blooded, heartless vices! If we speak or
have ever spoken of Mr. Southey with severity, it is with "the malice of old friends," for
we count ourselves among his sincerest and heartiest well-wishers. But while he himself is
anomalous, incalculable, eccentric, from youth to age (the Wat Tyler and the Vision of Judgment
are the Alpha and Omega of his disjointed career) full of sallies of humour, of ebullitions
of spleen, making jets-d'eaux, cascades, fountains, and water-works of his idle opinions, he
would shut up the wits of others in leaden cisterns, to stagnate and corrupt, or bury them
under ground--

  "Far from the sun and summer gale!"

He would suppress the freedom of wit and humour, of which he has set the example, and claim
a privilege for playing antics. He would introduce an uniformity of intellectual weights and
measures, of irregular metres and settled opinions, and enforce it with a high hand. This has
been judged hard by some, and has brought down a severity of recrimination, perhaps disproportioned
to the injury done. "Because he is virtuous," (it has been asked,) "are there to be no more
cakes and ale?" Because he is loyal, are we to take all our notions from the Quarterly Review?
Because he is orthodox, are we to do nothing but read the Book of the Church? We declare we
think his former poetical scepticism was not only more amiable, but had more of the spirit
of religion in it, implied a more heartfelt trust in nature and providence than his present
bigotry. We are at the same time free to declare that we think his articles in the Quarterly
Review, notwithstanding their virulence and the talent they display, have a tendency to qualify
its most pernicious effects. They have redeeming traits in them. "A little leaven leaveneth
the whole lump:" and the spirit of humanity (thanks to Mr. Southey) is not quite expelled from
the Quarterly Review. At the corner of his pen, "there hangs a vapourous drop profound" of
independence and liberality, which falls upon its pages, and oozes out through the pores of
the public mind. There is a fortunate difference between writers whose hearts are naturally
callous to truth, and whose understandings are hermetically sealed against all impressions
but those of self-interest, and a man like Mr. Southey. Once a philanthropist and always a
philanthropist. No man can entirely baulk his nature: it breaks out in spite of him. In all
those questions, where the spirit of contradiction does not interfere, on which he is not sore
from old bruises, or sick from the extravagance of youthful intoxication, as from a last night's
debauch, our "laureate" is still bold, free, candid, open to conviction, a reformist without
knowing it. He does not advocate the slave-trade, he does not arm Mr. Malthus's revolting ratios
with his authority, he does not strain hard to deluge Ireland with blood. On such points, where
humanity has not become obnoxious, where liberty has not passed into a by-word, Mr. Southey
is still liberal and humane. The elasticity of his spirit is unbroken: the bow recoils to its
old position. He still stands convicted of his early passion for inquiry and improvement.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. T. MOORE.--MR. LEIGH HUNT.

  "Or winglet of the fairy humming-bird,
  Like atoms of the rainbow fluttering round."

  CAMPBELL.

The lines placed at the head of this sketch, from a contemporary writer, appear to us very
descriptive of Mr. Moore's poetry.

  "No dainty flower or herb that grows on ground,
  No arboret with painted blossoms drest,
  And smelling sweet, but there it might be found
  To bud out fair, and its sweet smells throw all around.

  No tree, whose branches did not bravely spring;
  No branch, whereon a fine bird did not sit;
  No bird, but did her shrill notes sweetly sing;
  No song, but did contain a lovely dit:
  Trees, branches, birds, and songs were framed fit
  For to allure frail minds to careless ease."....

Mr. Campbell's imagination is fastidious and select; and hence, though we meet with more exquisite
beauties in his writings, we meet with them more rarely: there is comparatively a dearth of
ornament. But Mr. Moore's strictest economy is "wasteful and superfluous excess:" he is always
liberal, and never at a loss; for sooner than not stimulate and delight the reader, he is willing
to be tawdry, or superficial, or common-place. His Muse must be fine at any rate, though she
should paint, and wear cast-off decorations. Rather than have any lack of excitement, he repeats
himself; and "Eden, and Eblis, and cherub-smiles" fill up the pauses of the sentiment with
a sickly monotony.--It has been too much our author's object to pander to the artificial taste
of the age; and his productions, however brilliant and agreeable, are in consequence somewhat
meretricious and effeminate. It was thought formerly enough to have an occasionally fine passage
in the progress of a story or a poem, and an occasionally striking image or expression in a
fine passage or description. But this style, it seems, was to be exploded as rude, Gothic,
meagre, and dry. Now all must be raised to the same tantalising and preposterous level. There
must be no pause, no interval, no repose, no gradation. Simplicity and truth yield up the palm
to affectation and grimace. The craving of the public mind after novelty and effect is a false
and uneasy appetite that must be pampered with fine words at every step--we must be tickled
with sound, startled with shew, and relieved by the importunate, uninterrupted display of fancy
and verbal tinsel as much as possible from the fatigue of thought or shock of feeling. A poem
is to resemble an exhibition of fireworks, with a continual explosion of quaint figures and
devices, flash after flash, that surprise for the moment, and leave no trace of light or warmth
behind them. Or modern poetry in its retrograde progress comes at last to be constructed on
the principles of the modern OPERA, where an attempt is made to gratify every sense at every
instant, and where the understanding alone is insulted and the heart mocked. It is in this
view only that we can discover that Mr. Moore's poetry is vitiated or immoral,--it seduces
the taste and enervates the imagination. It creates a false standard of reference, and inverts
or decompounds the natural order of association, in which objects strike the thoughts and feelings.
His is the poetry of the bath, of the toilette, of the saloon, of the fashionable world; not
the poetry of nature, of the heart, or of human life. He stunts and enfeebles equally the growth
of the imagination and the affections, by not taking the seed of poetry and sowing it in the
ground of truth, and letting it expand in the dew and rain, and shoot up to heaven,

  "And spread its sweet leaves to the air,
  Or dedicate its beauty to the sun,"--

instead of which he anticipates and defeats his own object, by plucking flowers and blossoms
from the stem, and setting them in the ground of idleness and folly--or in the cap of his own
vanity, where they soon wither and disappear, "dying or ere they sicken!" This is but a sort
of child's play, a short-sighted ambition. In Milton we meet with many prosaic lines, either
because the subject does not require raising or because they are necessary to connect the story,
or serve as a relief to other passages--there is not such a thing to be found in all Mr. Moore's
writings. His volumes present us with "a perpetual feast of nectar'd sweets"--but we cannot
add,--"where no crude surfeit reigns." He indeed cloys with sweetness; he obscures with splendour;
he fatigues with gaiety. We are stifled on beds of roses--we literally lie "on the rack of
restless ecstacy." His flowery fancy "looks so fair and smells so sweet, that the sense aches
at it." His verse droops and languishes under a load of beauty, like a bough laden with fruit.
His gorgeous style is like "another morn risen on mid-noon." There is no passage that is not
made up of blushing lines, no line that is not enriched with a sparkling metaphor, no image
that is left unadorned with a double epithet--all his verbs, nouns, adjectives, are equally
glossy, smooth, and beautiful. Every stanza is transparent with light, perfumed with odours,
floating in liquid harmony, melting in luxurious, evanescent delights. His Muse is never contented
with an offering from one sense alone, but brings another rifled charm to match it, and revels
in a fairy round of pleasure. The interest is not dramatic, but melo-dramatic--it is a mixture
of painting, poetry, and music, of the natural and preternatural, of obvious sentiment and
romantic costume. A rose is a Gul, a nightingale a Bulbul. We might fancy ourselves in an eastern
harem, amidst Ottomans, and otto of roses, and veils and spangles, and marble pillars, and
cool fountains, and Arab maids and Genii, and magicians, and Peris, and cherubs, and what not?
Mr. Moore has a little mistaken the art of poetry for the cosmetic art. He does not compose
an historic group, or work out a single figure; but throws a variety of elementary sensations,
of vivid impressions together, and calls it a description. He makes out an inventory of beauty--the
smile on the lips, the dimple on the cheeks, item, golden locks, item, a pair of blue wings,
item, a silver sound, with breathing fragrance and radiant light, and thinks it a character
or a story. He gets together a number of fine things and fine names, and thinks that, flung
on heaps, they make up a fine poem. This dissipated, fulsome, painted, patch-work style may
succeed in the levity and languor of the boudoir, or might have been adapted to the Pavilions
of royalty, but it is not the style of Parnassus, nor a passport to Immortality. It is not
the taste of the ancients, "'tis not classical lore"--nor the fashion of Tibullus, or Theocritus,
or Anacreon, or Virgil, or Ariosto, or Pope, or Byron, or any great writer among the living
or the dead, but it is the style of our English Anacreon, and it is (or was) the fashion of
the day! Let one example (and that an admired one) taken from Lalla Rookh, suffice to explain
the mystery and soften the harshness of the foregoing criticism.

  "Now upon Syria's land of roses
  Softly the light of eve reposes,
  And like a glory, the broad sun
  Hangs over sainted Lebanon:
  Whose head in wintry grandeur towers,
  And whitens with eternal sleet,
  While summer, in a vale of flowers,
  Is sleeping rosy at his feet.
  To one who look'd from upper air,
  O'er all th' enchanted regions there,
  How beauteous must have been the glow,
  The life, the sparkling from below!
  Fair gardens, shining streams, with ranks
  Of golden melons on their banks,
  More golden where the sun-light falls,--
  Gay lizards, glittering on the walls
  Of ruin'd shrines, busy and bright
  As they were all alive with light;--
  And yet more splendid, numerous flocks
  Of pigeons, settling on the rocks,
  With their rich, restless wings, that gleam
  Variously in the crimson beam
  Of the warm west, as if inlaid
  With brilliants from the mine, or made
  Of tearless rainbows, such as span
  The unclouded skies of Peristan!
  And then, the mingling sounds that come
  Of shepherd's ancient reed, with hum
  Of the wild bees of Palestine,
  Banquetting through the flowery vales--
  And, Jordan, those sweet banks of thine,
  And woods, so full of nightingales."--

The following lines are the very perfection of Della Cruscan sentiment, and affected orientalism
of style. The Peri exclaims on finding that old talisman and hackneyed poetical machine, "a
penitent tear"--

  "Joy, joy forever! my task is done--
  The gates are pass'd, and Heaven is won!
  Oh! am I not happy? I am, I am--
  To thee, sweet Eden! how dark and sad
  Are the diamond turrets of Shadukiam,
  And the fragrant bowers of Amberabad."

There is in all this a play of fancy, a glitter of words, a shallowness of thought, and a want
of truth and solidity that is wonderful, and that nothing but the heedless, rapid glide of
the verse could render tolerable:----it seems that the poet, as well as the lover,

  "May bestride the Gossamer,
  That wantons in the idle, summer air,
  And yet not fall, so light is vanity!"

Mr. Moore ought not to contend with serious difficulties or with entire subjects. He can write
verses, not a poem. There is no principle of massing or of continuity in his productions--neither
height nor breadth nor depth of capacity. There is no truth of representation, no strong internal
feeling--but a continual flutter and display of affected airs and graces, like a finished coquette,
who hides the want of symmetry by extravagance of dress, and the want of passion by flippant
forwardness and unmeaning sentimentality. All is flimsy, all is florid to excess. His imagination
may dally with insect beauties, with Rosicrucian spells; may describe a butterfly's wing, a
flower-pot, a fan: but it should not attempt to span the great outlines of nature, or keep
pace with the sounding march of events, or grapple with the strong fibres of the human heart.
The great becomes turgid in his hands, the pathetic insipid. If Mr. Moore were to describe
the heights of Chimboraco, instead of the loneliness, the vastness and the shadowy might, he
would only think of adorning it with roseate tints, like a strawberry-ice, and would transform
a magician's fortress in the Himmalaya (stripped of its mysterious gloom and frowning horrors)
into a jeweller's toy, to be set upon a lady's toilette. In proof of this, see above "the diamond
turrets of Shadukiam," &c. The description of Mokanna in the fight, though it has spirit and
grandeur of effect, has still a great alloy of the mock-heroic in it. The route of blood and
death, which is otherwise well marked, is infested with a swarm of "fire-fly" fancies.

  "In vain Mokanna, 'midst the general flight,
  Stands, like the red moon, in some stormy night.
  Among the fugitive clouds, that hurrying by,
  Leave only her unshaken in the sky."

This simile is fine, and would have been perfect, but that the moon is not red, and that she
seems to hurry by the clouds, not they by her. The description of the warrior's youthful adversary,

 ----"Whose coming seems
  A light, a glory, such as breaks in dreams."--

is fantastic and enervated--a field of battle has nothing to do with dreams:--and again, the
two lines immediately after,

  "And every sword, true as o'er billows dim
  The needle tracks the load-star, following him"--

are a mere piece of enigmatical ingenuity and scientific mimminee-pimminee.

We cannot except the Irish Melodies from the same censure. If these national airs do indeed
express the soul of impassioned feeling in his countrymen, the case of Ireland is hopeless.
If these prettinesses pass for patriotism, if a country can heave from its heart's core only
these vapid, varnished sentiments, lip-deep, and let its tears of blood evaporate in an empty
conceit, let it be governed as it has been. There are here no tones to waken Liberty, to console
Humanity. Mr. Moore converts the wild harp of Erin into a musical snuff-box[A]!--We do except
from this censure the author's political squibs, and the "Two- penny Post-bag." These are essences,
are "nests of spicery", bitter and sweet, honey and gall together. No one can so well describe
the set speech of a dull formalist[B], or the flowing locks of a Dowager,

  "In the manner of Ackermann's dresses for May."

His light, agreeable, polished style pierces through the body of the court--hits off the faded
graces of "an Adonis of fifty", weighs the vanity of fashion in tremulous scales, mimics the
grimace of affectation and folly, shews up the littleness of the great, and spears a phalanx
of statesmen with its glittering point as with a diamond broach.

  "In choosing songs the Regent named
  'Had I a heart for falsehood fram'd:'
  While gentle Hertford begg'd and pray'd
  For 'Young I am, and sore afraid.'"

Nothing in Pope or Prior ever surpassed the delicate insinuation and adroit satire of these
lines, and hundreds more of our author's composition. We wish he would not take pains to make
us think of them with less pleasure than formerly.--The "Fudge Family" is in the same spirit,
but with a little falling-off. There is too great a mixture of undisguised Jacobinism and fashionable
slang. The "divine Fanny Bias" and "the mountains à la Russe" figure in somewhat quaintly with
Buonaparte and the Bourbons. The poet also launches the lightning of political indignation;
but it rather plays round and illumines his own pen than reaches the devoted heads at which
it is aimed!

Mr. Moore is in private life an amiable and estimable man. The embellished and voluptuous style
of his poetry, his unpretending origin, and his mignon figure soon introduced him to the notice
of the great, and his gaiety, his wit, his good-humour, and many agreeable accomplishments
fixed him there, the darling of his friends and the idol of fashion. If he is no longer familiar
with Royalty as with his garter, the fault is not his--his adherence to his principles caused
the separation--his love of his country was the cloud that intercepted the sunshine of court-favour.
This is so far well. Mr. Moore vindicates his own dignity; but the sense of intrinsic worth,
of wide-spread fame, and of the intimacy of the great makes him perhaps a little too fastidious
and exigeant as to the pretensions of others. He has been so long accustomed to the society
of Whig Lords, and so enchanted by the smile of beauty and fashion, that he really fancies
himself one of the set, to which he is admitted on sufferance, and tries very unnecessarily
to keep others out of it. He talks familiarly of works that are or are not read "in our circle;"
and seated smiling and at his ease in a coronet-coach, enlivening the owner by his brisk sallies
and Attic conceits, is shocked, as he passes, to see a Peer of the realm shake hands with a
poet. There is a little indulgence of spleen and envy, a little servility and pandering to
aristocratic pride in this proceeding. Is Mr. Moore bound to advise a Noble Poet to get as
fast as possible out of a certain publication, lest he should not be able to give an account
at Holland or at Lansdown House, how his friend Lord B----had associated himself with his friend
L. H----? Is he afraid that the "Spirit of Monarchy" will eclipse the "Fables for the Holy
Alliance" in virulence and plain speaking? Or are the members of the "Fudge Family" to secure
a monopoly for the abuse of the Bourbons and the doctrine of Divine Right? Because he is genteel
and sarcastic, may not others be paradoxical and argumentative? Or must no one bark at a Minister
or General, unless they have been first dandled, like a little French pug-dog, in the lap of
a lady of quality? Does Mr. Moore insist on the double claim of birth and genius as a title
to respectability in all advocates of the popular side--but himself? Or is he anxious to keep
the pretensions of his patrician and plebeian friends quite separate, so as to be himself the
only point of union, a sort of double meaning, between the two? It is idle to think of setting
bounds to the weakness and illusions of self-love as long as it is confined to a man's own
breast; but it ought not to be made a plea for holding back the powerful hand that is stretched
out to save another struggling with the tide of popular prejudice, who has suffered shipwreck
of health, fame and fortune in a common cause, and who has deserved the aid and the good wishes
of all who are (on principle) embarked in the same cause by equal zeal and honesty, if not
by equal talents to support and to adorn it!

We shall conclude the present article with a short notice of an individual who, in the cast
of his mind and in political principle, bears no very remote resemblance to the patriot and
wit just spoken of, and on whose merits we should descant at greater length, but that personal
intimacy might be supposed to render us partial. It is well when personal intimacy produces
this effect; and when the light, that dazzled us at a distance, does not on a closer inspection
turn out an opaque substance. This is a charge that none of his friends will bring against
Mr. Leigh Hunt. He improves upon acquaintance. The author translates admirably into the man.
Indeed the very faults of his style are virtues in the individual. His natural gaiety and sprightliness
of manner, his high animal spirits, and the vinous quality of his mind, produce an immediate
fascination and intoxication in those who come in contact with him, and carry off in society
whatever in his writings may to some seem flat and impertinent. From great sanguineness of
temper, from great quickness and unsuspecting simplicity, he runs on to the public as he does
at his own fire-side, and talks about himself, forgetting that he is not always among friends.
His look, his tone are required to point many things that he says: his frank, cordial manner
reconciles you instantly to a little over-bearing, over-weening self- complacency. "To be admired,
he needs but to be seen:" but perhaps he ought to be seen to be fully appreciated. No one ever
sought his society who did not come away with a more favourable opinion of him: no one was
ever disappointed, except those who had entertained idle prejudices against him. He sometimes
trifles with his readers, or tires of a subject (from not being urged on by the stimulus of
immediate sympathy)--but in conversation he is all life and animation, combining the vivacity
of the school-boy with the resources of the wit and the taste of the scholar. The personal
character, the spontaneous impulses, do not appear to excuse the author, unless you are acquainted
with his situation and habits--like some proud beauty who gives herself what we think strange
airs and graces under a mask, but who is instantly forgiven when she shews her face. We have
said that Lord Byron is a sublime coxcomb: why should we not say that Mr. Hunt is a delightful
one? There is certainly an exuberance of satisfaction in his manner which is more than the
strict logical premises warrant, and which dull and phlegmatic constitutions know nothing of,
and cannot understand till they see it. He is the only poet or literary man we ever knew who
puts us in mind of Sir John Suckling or Killigrew or Carew; or who united rare intellectual
acquirements with outward grace and natural gentility. Mr. Hunt ought to have been a gentleman
born, and to have patronised men of letters. He might then have played, and sung, and laughed,
and talked his life away; have written manly prose, elegant verse; and his Story of Rimini
would have been praised by Mr. Blackwood. As it is, there is no man now living who at the same
time writes prose and verse so well, with the exception of Mr. Southey (an exception, we fear,
that will be little palatable to either of these gentlemen). His prose writings, however, display
more consistency of principle than the laureate's: his verses more taste. We will venture to
oppose his Third Canto of the Story of Rimini for classic elegance and natural feeling to any
equal number of lines from Mr. Southey's Epics or from Mr. Moore's Lalla Rookh. In a more gay
and conversational style of writing, we think his Epistle to Lord Byron on his going abroad,
is a masterpiece;--and the Feast of the Poets has run through several editions. A light, familiar
grace, and mild unpretending pathos are the characteristics of his more sportive or serious
writings, whether in poetry or prose. A smile plays round the features of the one; a tear is
ready to start from the thoughtful gaze of the other. He perhaps takes too little pains, and
indulges in too much wayward caprice in both. A wit and a poet, Mr. Hunt is also distinguished
by fineness of tact and sterling sense: he has only been a visionary in humanity, the fool
of virtue. What then is the drawback to so many shining qualities, that has made them useless,
or even hurtful to their owner? His crime is, to have been Editor of the Examiner ten years
ago, when some allusion was made in it to the age of the present king, and that, though his
Majesty has grown older, our luckless politician is no wiser than he was then!

[Footnote A: Compare his songs with Burns's.]

[Footnote B:

  "There was a little man, and he had a little soul,
  And he said, Little soul, let us try," &c.--

Parody on

  "There was a little man, and he had a little gun."--

One should think this exquisite ridicule of a pedantic effusion might have silenced for ever
the automaton that delivered it: but the official personage in question at the close of the
Session addressed an extra-official congratulation to the Prince Regent on a bill that had
not passed--as if to repeat and insist upon our errors were to justify them.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ELIA, AND GEOFFREY CRAYON.

So Mr. Charles Lamb and Mr. Washington Irvine choose to designate themselves; and as their
lucubrations under one or other of these noms de guerre have gained considerable notice from
the public, we shall here attempt to discriminate their several styles and manner, and to point
out the beauties and defects of each in treating of somewhat similar subjects.

Mr. Irvine is, we take it, the more popular writer of the two, or a more general favourite:
Mr. Lamb has more devoted, and perhaps more judicious partisans. Mr. Irvine is by birth an
American, and has, as it were, skimmed the cream, and taken off patterns with great skill and
cleverness, from our best known and happiest writers, so that their thoughts and almost their
reputation are indirectly transferred to his page, and smile upon us from another hemisphere,
like "the pale reflex of Cynthia's brow:" he succeeds to our admiration and our sympathy by
a sort of prescriptive title and traditional privilege.

Mr. Washington Irvine's acquaintance with English literature begins almost where Mr. Lamb's
ends,--with the Spectator, Tom Brown's works, and the wits of Queen Anne. He is not bottomed
in our elder writers, nor do we think he has tasked his own faculties much, at least on English
ground. Of the merit of his Knicker-bocker, and New York stories, we cannot pretend to judge.
But in his Sketch-book and Bracebridge-Hall he gives us very good American copies of our British
Essayists and Novelists, which may be very well on the other side of the water, and as proofs
of the capabilities of the national genius, but which might be dispensed with here, where we
have to boast of the originals. Not only Mr. Irvine's language is with great taste and felicity
modelled on that of Addison, Sterne, Goldsmith, or Mackenzie; but the thoughts and sentiments
are taken at the rebound, and as they are brought forward at the present period, want both
freshness and probability. Mr. Irvine's writings are literary anachronisms. He comes to England
for the first time; and being on the spot, fancies himself in the midst of those characters
and manners which he had read of in the Spectator and other approved authors, and which were
the only idea he had hitherto formed of the parent country. Instead of looking round to see
what we are, he sets to work to describe us as we were--at second hand. He has Parson Adams,
or Sir Roger de Coverley in his "mind's eye"; and he makes a village curate, or a country 'squire
in Yorkshire or Hampshire sit to these admired models for their portraits in the beginning
of the nineteenth century. Whatever the ingenious author has been most delighted with in the
representations of books, he transfers to his port-folio, and swears that he has found it actually
existing in the course of his observation and travels through Great Britain. Instead of tracing
the changes that have taken place in society since Addison or Fielding wrote, he transcribes
their account in a different hand-writing, and thus keeps us stationary, at least in our most
attractive and praise-worthy qualities of simplicity, honesty, hospitality, modesty, and good-nature.
This is a very flattering mode of turning fiction into history, or history into fiction; and
we should scarcely know ourselves again in the softened and altered likeness, but that it bears
the date of 1820, and issues from the press in Albemarle-street. This is one way of complimenting
our national and Tory prejudices; and coupled with literal or exaggerated portraits of Yankee
peculiarities, could hardly fail to please. The first Essay in the Sketch-book, that on National
Antipathies, is the best; but after that, the sterling ore of wit or feeling is gradually spun
thinner and thinner, till it fades to the shadow of a shade. Mr. Irvine is himself, we believe,
a most agreeable and deserving man, and has been led into the natural and pardonable error
we speak of, by the tempting bait of European popularity, in which he thought there was no
more likely method of succeeding than by imitating the style of our standard authors, and giving
us credit for the virtues of our forefathers. This is the more proper, inasmuch as he is a
character by himself, and the only poet now living that is a mere poet. If we were asked what
sort of a man Mr. Knowles is, we could only say, "he is the writer of Virginius." His most
intimate friends see nothing in him, by which they could trace the work to the author. The
seeds of dramatic genius are contained and fostered in the warmth of the blood that flows in
his veins; his heart dictates to his head. The most unconscious, the most unpretending, the
most artless of mortals, he instinctively obeys the impulses of natural feeling, and produces
a perfect work of art. He has hardly read a poem or a play or seen any thing of the world,
but he hears the anxious beatings of his own heart, and makes others feel them by the force
of sympathy. Ignorant alike of rules, regardless of models, he follows the steps of truth and
simplicity; and strength, proportion, and delicacy are the infallible results. By thinking
of nothing but his subject, he rivets the attention of the audience to it. All his dialogue
tends to action, all his situations form classic groups. There is no doubt that Virginius is
the best acting tragedy that has been produced on the modern stage. Mr. Knowles himself was
a player at one time, and this circumstance has probably enabled him to judge of the picturesque
and dramatic effect of his lines, as we think it might have assisted Shakespear. There is no
impertinent display, no flaunting poetry; the writer immediately conceives how a thought would
tell if he had to speak it himself. Mr. Knowles is the first tragic writer of the age; in other
respects he is a common man; and divides his time and his affections between his plots and
his fishing-tackle, between the Muses' spring, and those mountain-streams which sparkle like
his own eye, that gush out like his own voice at the sight of an old friend. We have known
him almost from a child, and we must say he appears to us the same boy-poet that he ever was.
He has been cradled in song, and rocked in it as in a dream, forgetful of himself and of the world!

THE END.

