Mrs. Peyton had been sitting alone with these thoughts for the greater part of the afternoon,
and dusk was falling when Dick entered the drawing-room. In the dim light, with his pallour
heightened by the sombre effect of his mourning, he came upon her almost startlingly, with
a revival of some long-effaced impression which, for a moment, gave her the sense of struggling
among shadows. She did not, at first, know what had produced the effect; then she saw that
it was his likeness to his father.

"Well--is it over?" she asked, as he threw himself into a chair without speaking.

"Yes: I've looked through everything." He leaned back, crossing his hands behind his head,
and gazing past her with a look of utter lassitude.

She paused a moment, and then said tentatively: "Tomorrow you will be able to go back to your
work."

"Oh--my work," he exclaimed, as if to brush aside an ill-timed pleasantry.

"Are you too tired?"

"No." He rose and began to wander up and down the room. "I'm not tired.--Give me some tea,
will you?" He paused before her while she poured the cup, and then, without taking it, turned
away to light a cigarette.

"Surely there is still time?" she suggested, with her eyes on him.

"Time? To finish my plans? Oh, yes--there's time. But they're not worth it."

"Not worth it?" She started up, and then dropped back into her seat, ashamed of having betrayed
her anxiety. "They are worth as much as they were last week," she said with an attempt at cheerfulness.

"Not to me," he returned. "I hadn't seen Darrow's then."

There was a long silence. Mrs. Peyton sat with her eyes fixed on her clasped hands, and her
son paced the room restlessly.

"Are they so wonderful?" she asked at length.

"Yes."

She paused again, and then said, lifting a tremulous glance to his face: "That makes his offer
all the more beautiful."

Dick was lighting another cigarette, and his face was turned from her. "Yes--I suppose so,"
he said in a low tone.

"They were quite finished, he told me," she continued, unconsciously dropping her voice to
the pitch of his.

"Yes."

"Then they will be entered, I suppose?"

"Of course--why not?" he answered almost sharply.

"Shall you have time to attend to all that and to finish yours too?"

"Oh, I suppose so. I've told you it isn't a question of tune. I see now that mine are not worth
bothering with."

She rose and approached him, laying her hands on his shoulders. "You are tired and unstrung;
how can you judge? Why not let me look at both designs to-morrow?"

Under her gaze he flushed abruptly and drew back with a half-impatient gesture.

"Oh, I'm afraid that wouldn't help me; you'd be sure to think mine best," he said with a laugh.

"But if I could give you good reasons?" she pressed him.

He took her hand, as if ashamed of his impatience. "Dear mother, if you had any reasons their
mere existence would prove that they were bad."

His mother did not return his smile. "You won't let me see the two designs then?" she said
with a faint tinge of insistence.

"Oh, of course--if you want to--if you only won't talk about it now! Can't you see that I'm
pretty nearly dead-beat?" he burst out uncontrollably; and as she stood silent, he added with
a weary fall in his voice, "I think I'll go upstairs and see if I can't get a nap before dinner."

       *       *       *       *       *

Though they had separated upon the assurance that she should see the two designs if she wished
it, Mrs. Peyton knew they would not be shown to her. Dick, indeed, would not again deny her
request; but had he not reckoned on the improbability of her renewing it? All night she lay
confronted by that question. The situation shaped itself before her with that hallucinating
distinctness which belongs to the midnight vision. She knew now why Dick had suddenly reminded
her of his father: had she not once before seen the same thought moving behind the same eyes?
She was sure it had occurred to Dick to use Darrow's drawings. As she lay awake in the darkness
she could hear him, long after midnight, pacing the floor overhead: she held her breath, listening
to the recurring beat of his foot, which seemed that of an imprisoned spirit revolving wearily
in the cage of the same thought. She felt in every fibre that a crisis in her son's life had
been reached, that the act now before him would have a determining effect on his whole future.
The circumstances of her past had raised to clairvoyance her natural insight into human motive,
had made of her a moral barometer responding to the faintest fluctuations of atmosphere, and
years of anxious meditation had familiarized her with the form which her son's temptations
were likely to take. The peculiar misery of her situation was that she could not, except indirectly,
put this intuition, this foresight, at his service. It was a part of her discernment to be
aware that life is the only real counsellor, that wisdom unfiltered through personal experience
does not become a part of the moral tissues. Love such as hers had a great office, the office
of preparation and direction; but it must know how to hold its hand and keep its counsel, how
to attend upon its object as an invisible influence rather than as an active interference.

All this Kate Peyton had told herself again and again, during those hours of anxious calculation
in which she had tried to cast Dick's horoscope; but not in her moments of most fantastic foreboding
had she figured so cruel a test of her courage. If her prayers for him had taken precise shape,
she might have asked that he should be spared the spectacular, the dramatic appeal to his will-power:
that his temptations should slip by him in a dull disguise. She had secured him against all
ordinary forms of baseness; the vulnerable point lay higher, in that region of idealizing egotism
which is the seat of life in such natures.

