One of the things that most tormented him indeed in this recent existence was a perpetual pricking
sense of the contrast between this small world of his ancestral possessions and traditions,
with all its ceremonial and feudal usage, and the great rushing world outside it of action
and of thought. Do what he would, he could not un-king himself within the limits of the Maxwell
estate. To the people living upon it he was the man of most importance within their ken, was
inevitably their potentate and earthly providence. He confessed that there was a real need
of him, if he did his duty. But on this need the class-practice of generations had built up
a deference, a sharpness of class-distinction, which any modern must find more and more irksome
in proportion to his modernness. What was in Aldous's mind, as he stood with drawn brows looking
out over the view which showed him most of his domain, was a sort of hot impatience of being
made day by day, in a hundred foolish ways, to play at greatness.

Yet, as we know, he was no democrat by conviction, had no comforting faith in what seemed to
him the rule of a multitudinous ignorance. Still every sane man of to-day knows, at any rate,
that the world has taken the road of democracy, and that the key to the future, for good or
ill, lies not in the revolts and speculations of the cultivated few, but in the men and movements
that can seize the many. Aldous's temper was despondently critical towards the majority of
these, perhaps; he had, constitutionally, little of that poet's sympathy with the crowd, as
such, which had given Hallin his power. But, at any rate, they filled the human stage--these
men and movements--and his mind as a beholder. Beside the great world-spectacle perpetually
in his eye and thought, the small old-world pomps and feudalisms of his own existence had a
way of looking ridiculous to him. He constantly felt himself absurd. It was ludicrously clear
to him, for instance, that in this kingdom he had inherited it would be thought a huge condescension
on his part if he were to ask the secretary of a trades union to dine with him at the Court.
Whereas, in his own honest opinion, the secretary had a far more important and interesting
post in the universe than he.

So that, in spite of a strong love of family, rigidly kept to himself, he had very few of the
illusions which make rank and wealth delightful. On the other hand, he had a tyrannous sense
of obligation, which kept him tied to his place and his work--to such work as he had been spending
the morning on. This sense of obligation had for the present withdrawn him from any very active
share in politics. He had come to the conclusion early in the year, just about the time when,
owing to some rearrangements in the personnel of the Government, the Premier had made him some
extremely flattering overtures, that he must for the present devote himself to the Court. There
were extensive changes and reforms going on in different parts of the estate: some of the schools
which he owned and mainly supported were being rebuilt and enlarged; and he had a somewhat
original scheme for the extension of adult education throughout the property very much on his
mind--a scheme which must be organised and carried through by himself apparently, if it was
to thrive at all.

Much of this business was very dreary to him, some of it altogether distasteful. Since the
day of his parting with Marcella Boyce his only real pleasures had lain in politics or books.
Politics, just as they were growing absorbing to him, must, for a while at any rate, be put
aside; and even books had not fared as well as they might have been expected to do in the country
quiet. Day after day he walked or rode about the muddy lanes of the estate, doing the work
that seemed to him to be his, as best he could, yet never very certain of its value; rather,
spending his thoughts more and more, with regard to his own place and function in the world,
on a sort of mental apologetic which was far from stimulating; sorely conscious the while of
the unmatched charm and effectiveness with which his grandfather had gone about the same business;
and as lonely at heart as a man can well be--the wound of love unhealed, the wound of friendship
still deep and unconsoled. To bring social peace and progress, as he understood them, to this
bit of Midland England a man of first-rate capacities was perhaps sacrificing what ambition
would have called his opportunities. Yet neither was he a hero to himself nor to the Buckinghamshire
farmers and yokels who depended on him. They had liked the grandfather better, and had become
stolidly accustomed to the grandson's virtues.

The only gleam in the grey of his life since he had determined about Christmas-time to settle
down at the Court had come from Mr. French's letter. That letter, together with Mr. Boyce's
posthumous note, which contained nothing, indeed, but a skilful appeal to neighbourliness and
old family friendship, written in the best style of the ex-Balkan Commissioner, had naturally
astonished him greatly. He saw at once what she would perceive in it, and turned impatiently
from speculation as to what Mr. Boyce might actually have meant, to the infinitely more important
matter, how she would take her father's act. Never had he written anything with greater anxiety
than he devoted to his letter to Mrs. Boyce. There was in him now a craving he could not stay,
to be brought near to her again, to know how her life was going. It had first raised its head
in him since he knew that her existence and Wharton's were finally parted, and had but gathered
strength from the self-critical loneliness and tedium of these later months.

Mrs. Boyce's reply couched in terms at once stately and grateful, which accepted his offer
of service on her own and her daughter's behalf, had given him extraordinary pleasure. He turned
it over again and again, wondering what part or lot Marcella might have had in it, attributing
to her this cordiality or that reticence; picturing the two women together in their black dresses--the
hotel, the pergola, the cliff--all of which he himself knew well. Finally, he went up to town,
saw Mr. French, and acquainted himself with the position and prospects of the Mellor estate,
feeling himself a sort of intruder, yet curiously happy in the business. It was wonderful what
that poor sickly fellow had been able to do in the last two years; yet his thoughts fell rather
into amused surmise as to what she would find it in her restless mind to do in the next two years.

Nevertheless, all the time, the resolution of which he had spoken to Hallin seemed to himself
unshaken. He recognised and adored the womanly growth and deepening which had taken place in
her; he saw that she wished to show him kindness. But he thought he could trust himself now
and henceforward not to force upon her a renewed suit for which there was in his eyes no real
or abiding promise of happiness.

