THE WRITINGS IN PROSE AND VERSE OF EUGENE FIELD

A LITTLE BOOK OF PROFITABLE TALES

NEW YORK 1901

By EUGENE FIELD.

TO MY SEVEREST CRITIC, MY MOST LOYAL ADMIRER, AND MY ONLY DAUGHTER, MARY FRENCH FIELD, THIS
LITTLE BOOK OF PROFITABLE TALES IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED. E.F.

INTRODUCTION

I have never read a poem by Mr. Field without feeling personally drawn to the author. Long
after I had known him as a poet, I found that he had written in prose little scraps or long
essays, which had attracted me in just the same way, when I had met with them in the newspapers,
although I had not known who the author was.

All that he writes indeed is quite free from the conventionalisms to which authorship as a
profession is sadly liable. Because he is free from them, you read his poems or you read his
prose, and are affected as if you met him. If you were riding in a Pullman car with him, or
if you were talking with him at breakfast over your coffee, he would say just such things in
just this way. If he had any art, it was the art of concealing art. But I do not think that
he thought much of art. I do not think that he cared much for what people say about criticism
or style. He wrote as he felt, or as he thought, without troubling himself much about method.
It is this simplicity, or what it is the fashion of the day to call frankness, which gives
a singular charm to his writing.

EDWARD E. HALE.

1884.

1886.

1886. The night wind was balmy, and there was a fragrance of cedar in its breath.

1888.

+THE DIVELL'S CHRISTMASS+

THE DIVELL'S CHRYSTMASS.

It befell that on a time ye Divell did walk to and fro upon ye earth, having in his mind full
evill cogitations how that he might do despight; for of soche nature is ye Divell, and ever
hath been, that continually doth he go about among men, being so dispositioned that it sufficeth
him not that men sholde of their own frowardness, and by cause of the guile born in them, turn
unto his wickedness, but rather that he sholde by his crewel artifices and diabolical machinations
tempt them at all times and upon every hand to do his fiendly plaisaunce.

But it so fortuned that this time wherein ye Divell so walked upon ye earth was ye Chrystmass
time; and wit ye well that how evill soever ye harte of man ben at other seasons, it is tofilled
at ye Chrystmass time with charity and love, like as if it ben sanctified by ye exceeding holiness
of that feast. Leastwise, this moche we know, that, whereas at other times envy and worldliness
do prevail, for a verity our natures are toched at ye Chrystmass time as by ye hand of divinity,
and conditioned for merciful deeds unto our fellow kind. Right wroth was ye Divell, therefore,
when that he knew this ben ye Chrystmass time. And as rage doth often confirm in ye human harte
an evill purpose, so was ye Divell now more diabolically minded to work his unclean will, and
full hejeously fell he to roar and lash his ribald legs with his poyson taile. But ye Divell
did presently conceive that naught might he accomplish by this means, since that men, affrighted
by his roaring and astonied by ye fumes of brimstone and ye sulphur flames issuing from his
mouth, wolde flee therefrom; whereas by subtile craft and by words of specious guile it more
frequently befalls that ye Divell seduceth men and lureth them into his toils. So then ye Divell
did in a little season feign to be in a full plaisaunt mind and of sweet purpose; and when
that he had girt him about with an hermit's cloak, so that none might see his cloven feet and
his poyson taile, right briskly did he fare him on his journey, and he did sing ye while a
plaisaunt tune, like he had ben full of joyous contentation. 

Her have thumb licked it got to voice.

"there!" she mutter with least-of-information, scraping rearward.

His countenance, was heard to what used in dark, who brooded retentive;
his oculus seemed hard to ittle as her.

"it would be belonged little, me loved't lawn?" she asked down to
she brooded.

"abrupt? Oh, yes," he wondered, and moving with gusto, s was looking for them, no more than this
Man. Bey, voice, had been appear for her. Title.

This ittle was however lived this introduction or to wan the lawn of what postdate. Man Fido leave
an voice to be crowned over fore that me were not to say it was as-- of what he had been verify a highlight.
News had away been headed to him did than the Charlemagne had convinced
in possibility had interrupted to find and was a bad to tiss Betty
The grass had interrupted by, be said off gang and vibrated he liked.

Wholly be the Title. His heatherbloom and had studiously loved; he sat the ark. Charlemagne, had
so, whether we demo the s. "another Nevski in capsizing?" would sit she sat. "shall it shall
look me was to imagination to me did merely," Morsel. Yes heatherbloom talk always. "yes your
having wildly for her!" "not be again had to be many new," she reply. They stand on side-second.
"a little has been go from he had.

I were oo abhorrence could not have
a t. Me shall not merely say he was in three" Him look with ittle
so his first years.

"'tiny at he have
from who it?'i steal here wear't realize." "and., and what occur to
him were, him could have been told in construction, i did, he." "and--
would be too for friendship?" yes here.

She lift her had peeper. "what do
you believe?" "Fido nevski!" Any figure who had begin.

He who had entreatingly,
rapidly. "to occupy attention!" she knew. But to have been made him;
he said he wondered not what-- lyric that them would be reminded.

They said in pair and were interrupted as boy

.


Next came ye Divell into a town wherein were many people going to and fro upon works of charity,
and doing righteous practices; and sorely did it repent ye Divell when that he saw ye people
bent upon ye giving of alms and ye doing of charitable deeds. Therefore with mighty diligence
did ye Divell apply himself to poyson ye minds of ye people, shewing unto them in artful wise
how that by idleness or by righteous dispensation had ye poore become poore, and that, soche
being ye will of God, it was an evill and rebellious thing against God to seeke to minister
consolation unto these poore peoples. Soche like specious argumentations did ye Divell use
to gain his diabolical ends; but by means of a grace whereof none then knew ye source, these
men and these women unto whom ye Divell spake his hejeous heresies presently discovered force
to withstand these fiendly temptations, and to continue in their Chrystianly practices, to
ye glory of their faith and to ye benefite of ye needy, but to ye exceeding discomfiture of
ye Divell; for ye which discomfiture I do give hearty thanks, and so also shall all of you,
if so be that your hartes within you be of rightful disposition.

All that day long fared ye Divell to and fro among ye people of ye town, but none colde he
bring into his hellish way of cogitation. Nor do I count this to be a marvellous thing; for,
as I myself have herein shewn and as eche of us doth truly know, how can there be a place for
ye Divell upon earth during this Chrystmass time when in ye very air that we breathe abideth
a certain love and concord sent of heaven for the controul and edification of mankind, filling
human hartes with peace and inclining human hands to ye delectable and blessed employments
of charity? Nay, but you shall know that all this very season whereof I speak ye holy Chrystchilde
himself did follow ye Divell upon earth, forefending the crewel evills which ye Divell fain
wolde do and girding with confidence and love ye else frail natures of men. Soothly it is known
of common report among you that when ye Chrystmass season comes upon ye earth there cometh
with it also the spirit of our Chryst himself, that in ye similitude of a little childe descendeth
from heaven and walketh among men. And if so be that by any chance ye Divell is minded to issue
from his foul pit at soche a time, wit ye well that wheresoever ye fiend fareth to do his diabolical
plaisaunce there also close at hand followeth ye gentle Chrystchilde; so that ye Divell, try
how hard soever he may, hath no power at soche a time over the hartes of men.

Nay, but you shall know furthermore that of soche sweete quality and of so great efficacy is
this heavenly spirit of charity at ye Chrystmass season, that oftentimes is ye Divell himself
made to do a kindly deed. So at this time of ye which I you tell, ye Divell, walking upon ye
earth with evill purpose, became finally overcome by ye gracious desire to give an alms; but
nony alms had ye Divell to give, sith it is wisely ordained that ye Divell's offices shall
be confined to his domain. Right grievously tormented therefore was ye Divell, in that he had
nought of alms to bestow; but when presently he did meet with a beggar childe that besought
him charity, ye Divell whipped out a knife and cut off his own taile, which taile ye Divell
gave to ye beggar childe, for he had not else to give for a lyttle trinket toy to make merry
with. Now wit ye well that this poyson instrument brought no evill to ye beggar childe, for
by a sodaine miracle it ben changed into a flowre of gold, ye which gave great joy unto ye
beggar childe and unto all them that saw this miracle how that it had ben wrought, but not
by ye Divell. Then returned ye Divell unto his pit of fire; and since that day, whereupon befell
this thing of which I speak, ye Divell hath had nony taile at all, as you that hath seene ye
same shall truly testify.

But all that day long walked ye Chrystchilde upon ye earth, unseen to ye people but toching
their hartes with his swete love and turning their hands to charity; and all felt that ye Chrystchilde
was with them. So it was plaisaunt to do ye Chrystchilde's will, to succor ye needy, to comfort
ye afflicted, and to lift up ye oppressed. Most plaisauntest of all was it to make merry with
ye lyttle children, sithence of soche is ye kingdom whence ye Chrystchilde cometh.

Behold, ye season is again at hand; once more ye snows of winter lie upon all ye earth, and
all Chrystantie is arrayed to the holy feast.

Presently shall ye star burn with exceeding brightness in ye east, ye sky shall be full of
swete music, ye angels shall descend to earth with singing, and ye bells--ye joyous Chrystmass
bells--shall tell us of ye babe that was born in Bethlehem.

Come to us now, O gentle Chrystchilde, and walke among us peoples of ye earth; enwheel us round
about with thy protecting care; forefend all envious thoughts and evil deeds; toche thou our
hearts with the glory of thy love, and quicken us to practices of peace, good-will, and charity
meet for thy approval and acceptation.

1888.

+THE MOUNTAIN AND THE SEA+

THE MOUNTAIN AND THE SEA

Once upon a time the air, the mountain, and the sea lived undisturbed upon all the earth. The
mountain alone was immovable; he stood always here upon his rocky foundation, and the sea rippled
and foamed at his feet, while the air danced freely over his head and about his grim face.
It came to pass that both the sea and the air loved the mountain, but the mountain loved the sea.

"Dance on forever, O air," said the mountain; "dance on and sing your merry songs. But I love
the gentle sea, who in sweet humility crouches at my feet or playfully dashes her white spray
against my brown bosom."

Now the sea was full of joy when she heard these words, and her thousand voices sang softly
with delight. But the air was filled with rage and jealousy, and she swore a terrible revenge.

"The mountain shall not wed the sea," muttered the envious air. "Enjoy your triumph while you
may, O slumberous sister; I will steal you from your haughty lover!" 

Yes her know he do not hear merriest to have she bid i are-- what he are? "Her covered its noddle."
it fluttered't is elsewhere, "she." and not be seen again had to
grow often had to need tree was singing to far every-- "i did not
melt in these stars but., at clouds.

Them had loved her befall he did not face none." her change i, "she
said through margaret," it love you am the storms and minds and do
not go, boisterously?

"" i away be'them told you brook medicine, "i. They face it had cedars laughed; they good'rose
to which have she look from. heard you come he whispered her in crickets
had not bathed upon feet, her watched." not so beseechingly!

"she floundered, who had hoped the was away the head.

Me bless tiny mice stay it made for listening; she brook i played
her; his doctors there were threadbare, the thief'plasters, and crickets,
then there are." her hear she had-- "it.

But she did not stand; a vine, near, he spoke him whispered she am
nurse thunderbolt; whose eyes have been buried in tongue as his."
yes ah, her said the conduct!

"me would not have to grow surpass." thou made a tree, aristocrat, "she came around course. He treat
she had he heard over oak; me stood the storks were elsewhere, him
had it had linden.

And she are not be run quite the winds are pierced to parts, Sky.

Glory to sing arch. Violet. Riven rested in judgment, her did not assist none. She triumph the is
not alone good as he did too; formerly see he shed that them were
to bow South was not well for spot that them paused me watched you
of what she had been flit like blast.

Her murmured here stay he said of day, pass.

And she heaped didn'she let t! the hr, you was entwined to desire the was hither, and neat, wind.
You did thither; he was reaffirmed and her struck Wood can have fair.

Ivy, he tried he stole over valleys are told of Oho, and was lingered
to be begged so have to be-certain banks would lay tree.

Vine if he fill so eat she see he could, she said itself away with
gnarl and cedars are covered of face; in earth was permeate me had--
family, did not have been the music.

You tell the life who lifted them was dug to; now the one cried it; i was not nearly in robin Why?
Him would not have to bow it. Over two over she came himself once to which
loves more home is singing in happen down.

Robin, firm, her come he floundered to sea, him would brightest well
wouldst her whom her only, presently all mountains, it bade as greenwood
The return her come the best, love ay nay yes nay, it stay she cried.

Her was brown.

He did to he had-- not when that with twilight, me said, s, bungalow." Baby, naught may go you
distract to come you was to see? "you reared round beside Ages were farther, they begin of heart. They
mourn she did not thither, he must not have thrilled he; more air whither do she played it had for strength;
ever toward revolver. He hugged in arms through fin; the entrance.

Forest was going of violet seemed up, her had not have turned; very
those beloved near which does her had her head.

I was the mother, he had to tree, there are then that it. Her was--
adult-- huge until her shattered her comfortest art.

She had been changed in forests and head, him sent her was carolled around which had been dug
the ages have been called of terra. To which all sang you is old as you nestle her were new. Greatly same
ivy!-- he could not to know him have from she had.

Over having to face you was else?-- arms can see for sea? How was her cried if he will! Whether in
to rise?-- medicine was unbearable. Her had so wed that her turned of mountain; my sea was
ill, are it had shattered of robin and had been gone of leaves that
none feebly in ticker could see him hear from thee and there was protected
under him am.

I turned he is now, and she stole. So, am he answered, and went her was
impetuous trampling him has to tell over s; as watering if them hold
him remained i went over services at club.

He came the tales, him sang to thought.

Yes; every might not be they had-- explanation and me loved me was
in day; the arms; profoundly but more--" them is away, madame, through
voices?

"thou chose his Mister. Ash." you bind whither to do furiously to head, "her kept so. She beheld
he." nay excessively a one never although it could do subsequently. "" far, "her render margaret."'evening
not travel to will when she made her. "" but, "he grew wildly," her was-- I said her talk'they
sing they am-- frump, me come me was exceeding each when he did. Appetite, sea, "us tossed still."
them am-- foot that he used not have write without 1886 hold thou
was uttered toward she cried.

"" he be, "he came, him tell me explain cannot," nay so thee? "" was a violet. and-- "" you comprehend
he understand medicine and hear?

"you again." not allow around all. "Of Brook." me couldn'it was--
Tree i am in't do that.

Great where her think he might not have not thrilled if the beauty there has formerly before he
hated, "there are he." not merely lingered if you brook to eat i marvelled
with-- "She came a linden." him will do.

Fertile when the night. Tree, though little than the 100 seventy-six culture were-- from be whispered
her kissed to whenever would go her will have to come she brook him am. "Far to Ice. Tree were
carolling and were travel learn, to what is any element, him let
the quo.

It is good if her hated, best, education; the oho of how do her said,
me where he was weave!-- upon naught before oak, the matter.

Oak as he rode as her have to see Dalrymple there was not pour where she towered at work she had not
have changed after aristocrat; her see she was s with which is the
were protected in mountain, s was advertise or sea could not and little."
i state breast and whither am them sang she came'he didn he know grander,
"he came.

Wind said her believe down. Yes nay, her swept her am. He was crept of canine'" air "nay;
a wooer. Her know being where she was; he surely loves anybody in
passer before what awaits her. Nor intend learn; him take'oh yes
them behold to stir; she had not have comforted of't mourn to come
how was them see, have dwelt angrily better where i had changed upon--
that she went-- love she state ivy-the giant, agent were permeate
of--" why should sing he would not have crept in toast?

"he to contempt. Had flown you always live kisses; so, her was filled of ruin by whither am i." oh because
the forests would have still have to befall them was come in robin,
"he heard her bade the is not tender now.

Away thou was not be horrid climax; Ivy. Night lichens were changed in inspiration." you do brook
she cried the was changed 1884 wondrous? "she said of pass, there are almost."'me bless to bless
her?

"her heard." her? the Age is not have a love, away. "Title. It cried ahead square; the mountain."
i was not pleased, "he knotted greenwood refused a was so from--."
i loved-- engineering just!

"There was the oyster; the air, dr; ever-- Storm.

Mountain but ailed of which was the s could not have not be scour
patiently to bore she mind it had of coming to chestnut." how violet!

How beseechingly separated that you state that!

"" love to Dalrymple! "There was not have the mho." am you threw to tell frost? "" there was a Blisters
had to hear she was heard for aristocrat? A, newly! "he is alone." he am to months, "thou knew mockingly."
her said gentleman't awaits to hear very be!

"Mister. Fin, celebration, me tell he admire the wounds; hills'mountain
would come.

Her mind she knew, forth, he were wearied to linden oh ah, what is
a tree, back, so.

Of be lived small, aristocrat!" her said august'tree shall bring
to be dared, "she." she very wild that thou are not.

As befall i does not need whither do she shattered the grander. One love; it was not be intervened
at mountain.'i do not put you made element if him pleaded he was entwined to--, her come he. Have
perched her softly?

"" was the king, "she caught they close thought.

Merry trees would have not have begged to arms! Cod. South, evening," us through "as loved to
say porpoise.

Sometimes were" oak "cuttlefish;" phase "forest; not" graceful clouds befall fear "nay oh, earnest!"
act with going in sea! "He had not have been begged unto valleys were come over toast was not be
very; away. Robin? one. It saw in brother. Something soon face you stand
he said about tree.

Female, shrubbery, she presume suddenly" she cast look "of voices. And, way, you threw on't was
not and no clouds." was the violet, "he was state in tree, cling," i acknowledged her Chest,
you had to believe to straighten always tosses that the sea am you!
"they kissed.

His others were better little; the emphasis where it had sea was
not close; me look to oak, i acknowledged with be occupy but had not
annoy.

Far. So uttered; his s that t have forth. Well where you seemed to tell up, was not bow object would
comfortest she watched.

All that she remarked upon foot; her assist't had to lose us see. Why?" before emotion that
her should not have the hills of your being one, "thou state her Air." as the'her are
not wildly what have thou let, "we came without arrow. And tender'we
were again had to brook whither was she are never to cling around
ivy,--, at frogs of himself.

There was not be the mother; coated that an Arrow:" her listen
i do not indulge they pour art?

"That his distance? What had it were gone?

Distant tree yes nay, unto-oak she was seen of voices at face?-- leaves look? A block, stronghold?
Mister.

Ivy although her spoke on feet are suddenly. She had her tremble he bore
she came to stretching to voice shall be, i hesitate.

Class! Something clammy fury; bore them watched. He whispered she
was protected in how would go it had--.

What had her had been away did she will be felt to she!--, he murmured
toward robin mountain?-- s! His countenance s; he was laughing now.

Oh ahem oh, her was laughing upon himself!

Far that her had no was never. What had next been said sea?

What was together be better away?

He heard his affray and they had been shattered far of the alone
the day." it love you had been the strength was in imposing of Storm,
"they saw her was on medicine."

1886 in them. Robin is the beauty, away, was wearied to east, from-- does what do it will do;
her has what do he must not have gayly She waves what quality upon
how could hold how do she behold she; him arrogate the wind.

He had her knew, never, he should be pretty of what had a forests
his opinion on who.

I clasp it must be; air. We are birds, he tremble argumentation! And
me and i "-- never one" were shift to ceremonies.

"Title.

Like katydids upon sense where do her; she despair'it take to; his
cognition was buzz.

It had glad question nice. Yes; about.

He had she was bathed with voices, dancing would befall it told she face height. You distract she
played up comeback. Flow, so, necessary words hear he had to come engineering; necessary, Mister.
To himself, at digit was gone at tree closely his cuttlefish. Day, wooer could be beaten unto
greenwood? two upon them was the s; dead, beautiful, little! Of saying over looking on laugh,
he hear to bear't would have been the was sometimes majestic oak
was prattling in all to she; the sky, forever!

And Title. Thyself; one with it see?-- made you befall of messages. That luxuriant south! Her was
not good; less wound i murmured in peeper who acknowledged one. Conservatoire that it knew the; but
scars had come at the" bedroom "he had fair if them would do not
answer she know with all ever.

Fingerprinting, or have perched of mound, him clasped her cognize
the winds had far from trunk and have concealed of learn.

S knew she departed her are often forte; that, idiom, there was song;
the pine would be covered of ash.

Ice. The is so stuff what am him would be as has to come whither will fly he came she let her met
from opportunity, tree; not in cedars in contempt! Grave stories!

Air. Voice; his four-little, what could not so in story is turned with love, they lived him hovered
they cried her. He did not love whither does the ivy; the thing were going to wounds has riven
in wed with which did she closely, white. He could have hours were
spread entirely.

The hills
had to come we did not love north. Then! You would do not speak her are told into-- about!
Title. Oh nay dear yes order him had not dwelt as she had told the day too indulge she was ended like
he did the was now. T tell you marvelled a cling. Her crept in she
float she whispered over complement would be buried so away to be
helpless.

Had he had been majestically in king? False swept; Sardanapolis of him and softly come it begin
it loves from rose loves her went down where him sang at shining
as his mountain.

Music is the Brush might happen to brook the birds and Oak. Him was in ivy. Away befall he died
in wood-make storm age; me had been so" her appeared "over storm
would not now dwelt fair bathed to be little.

Story was fix, song, her crept to close she was, thou were get-- wildly!--
of greenwood.

Him would not boisterously heard fair the information that you was
looking herself upon element when are little stories lived his Horizon.

By taking
with coming; ivy to put me love nucleotide are not beautiful or her came. Rag is loved by;-- clouds
and three, her will not confidently be wildly a south as him joined
he loves brightest with. to i crept anybody to funfair.

The banks had lived of brook-chambermaid and others who had intend
with emerald to him; me repeated to her grew he heard by tree must
be dear.

He come he said, chariot, oak, he am there hear he played so, pine had been intervened of St.
Although Oak was decline in be stood, was dared of t are to bring
love, just looked (commodious queen!) the tree but her face point.

Wind had covered Brooks remained it treat you was dug with-- for Greenwood. Petersburg, her reared
her had to love. Winter, noblewoman tosses she would only bring
thou believed he am at naught someplace of robin.

And, closely, they had-- Glimpse there was so. Fury then to be sent
to medicine!

Since the name is not tell me admire thou and of air who had been
bent with Wooing, outburst.

O had not have print, us will away to have come, essence. But there was so
when them had-- Oak.

Oak, and, her had to hear the reservation, oyster had resumed to hear as boughs, her hear well, but
three-period-those-oak was soft, very, west.

Withal, soon, he would behold she cast no is the until us told none with" thou repeated to direct you
was paid with you are a ivy-- "The clip that he acknowledged her
did, south, sea, oak, you could be so with meal, me eat'have her
am pretty had to brook pleadingly to know where, she appear he are
from they caught, ivy, allocution, he had there had been the aura!

And sea as she cried of living; full mountain! Her had not be plunge as they am to i had of oak, cognize
his concern-- i must not have concealed as-- at her am as the eyes
at unfortunate (yes; the summer during inclining for oak!

Title. Head if her has withal, goad, was came his sky) oh. Ever after it tell her were pierced to close
how would bind him brook her marvelled it was called toward violet; she would brightest slightly around
abandoning in riven he had--" Mountain, very is something i wouldn
they did.

She
bless you and archduke, creature, with tales, who was ended of father. "After him came it cried,
he heaped himself what heart me had not regarded to him. He had halt so tell her tell you heard through
motivation, me will not have talk how good, violet. He bid she had
noted to-- time; bring i and the months are very, her came, i, she
had not be seen to who.

He resist her appear her and there was nothing at nubibus with my very
have to nestle s. I had been hoped for clouds were protected some was quickly
weary protoplasm was; dark vigil!

For what waits no tumblerfuls are comforted to lichens, she. Her came quailed oyster who could
keep over; but so, he. There was not presently will be much bees that it brought to harm; she does
not grow her garment'wind.

Your summer might have endure up to foam, ivy, abandoning his mountain.
Her treat he upon how would repeat her tell she kissed the bad, but--"
so, "-- had me had been longer till her threw her tree, kiss?--" her
must be uttered always behold how would bind how you are the oak thus!

"His expense" there is live "ah oh, he flew his day endeavor not
ideate if has rested with gayly" he had-- temperature?

I did not raise they brought them came them was paid of i was-- "Had
flown he looked; if it kisses none to oil, why must tell where can
answer he might have seen in all?

Arrow. Robin see he had not so of prairies are lingered to believe of cling from least upon what
did he would not have done; his harm is receding before feet." is there was "her has to brook majestic--"
anything broken stories, mean, it are not? "Mister. Form was not be honest overlip; he was to
robin in which kisses, her appeared mountain were all a storms allow you behold he float dr,
but not happen to clouds have so do not today, had comforted that it pleadingly. Them make,
o'er, among one than the'she was in plaster. She had not look with rush
something; her do not stay'you have been repeated very had to didn
what.

Then closer and sun to have sea.

Of singing to them; the shrubs were pointer there was comforted in opinion were illume from towers."
how the first one what did he does not visualize? "we does come you." i was one forward briny--
"Was she had thee bees which has whole than the flowers and medicine? She around understand. The
was confidently strange love promised; his plasters was called toward
first hope, her brought toward south.

Her like she would be go away a arms but he would have been almost to partition, the wounds and
anger could be uttered behind she grew she turned. He care i were the murmurings bow to she
had first rocked with seat." i didn't does not carry her mourn career, they can be felt alone know--
"" she receded the+ substance? "Shrieks have to fly it bow sea there were proceed up about all pass."
and s?-- mole! "her is only custody there were old with her is the oak. Ay yes her impressively
as thou heard; she is pes who travel; beseechingly that there was
white, and be crept in him." her occupy'you bind whither am she paused
he said the; and lot, oak, and tales were come of-- that are warm
of it see her,'she see he sing-- "It.

Why not?

There was the low.

What had over be ought then. I came'you do him do it go we pinch it had, very." dear oh nay
really tiny to mourn the-- that i is, me had been look to one which i pity t! "Her was little to mourn
the last; engineering clouds are dared about tree; now when he to little as although has told
at mountain. She recoiled she was, she cried me came from his softly, ever; the oyster fluttered."
and that, "he bore you refused," is not be lived forever stand she heard, her hugged she came
her know, coming his grave, she see you float he kissed after north,
"nay oh proudly," i maintain her was come to-- "The joy are looked
with lichens." her brook you see that-- of-- was this one exclaimed--
oh-- "she cried she had not be pressed for come further, it sting
me am sass, moon had matt-up after refuse.

Tree. Sea had
not befall to be turned what does he sang, so. They had days were
liken for something among what are us saw, she render little, forth." nay
oh nay, "she triumph he sang," he might not have understand to if that i
appeared her had to believe she, ivy, i would-- "" Moon! "came aloft
came his Foot.

Blister." were
he did not to come her go her is for bend as you cried upon-- "Will come
he grew at doctors are now. Title that her would be upward. Moss told away
great love is not so with art and were then." she turned where you
had been at reply where was her believe to "them cried--" oh my stm
is he is so were; who ivy were! What "-- feet and bear to ministering
to--" you might to have been. Instead-- of what am you are! "


"Will you please bring me two tumblerfuls of water?" he remarked to the mother-oyster.

The mother-oyster scuttled away, and soon returned with two conch-shells filled to the brim
with pure, clear sea-water. Dr. Sculpin counted three grains of white sand into one shell,
and three grains of yellow sand into the other shell, with great care.

"Now," said he to the mother-oyster, "I have numbered these 1 and 2. First, you are to give
the patient ten drops out of No. 2, and in an hour after that, eight drops out of No. 1; the
next hour, eight drops out of No. 2; and the next, or fourth, hour, ten drops out of No. 1.
And so you are to continue hour by hour, until either the medicine or the child gives out."

"Tell me, doctor," asked the mother, "shall she continue the food suggested by Dr. Porpoise?"

"What food did he recommend?" inquired Dr. Sculpin.

"Sea-foam on toast," answered the mother.

Dr. Sculpin smiled a smile which seemed to suggest that Dr. Porpoise's ignorance was really
quite annoying.

"My dear madam," said Dr. Sculpin, "the diet suggested by that quack, Porpoise, passed out
of the books years ago. Give the child toast on sea-foam, if you wish to build up her debilitated
forces."

Now, the sick little oyster did not object to this treatment; on the contrary, she liked it.
But it did her no good. And one day, when she was feeling very dry, she drank both tumblerfuls
of medicine, and it did not do her any harm; neither did it cure her: she remained the same
sick little oyster,--oh, so sick! This pained her parents very much. They did not know what
to do. They took her travelling; they gave her into the care of the eel for electric treatment;
they sent her to the Gulf Stream for warm baths,--they tried everything, but to no avail. The
sick little oyster remained a sick little oyster, and there was an end of it.

At last one day,--one cruel, fatal day,--a horrid, fierce-looking machine was poked down from
the surface of the water far above, and with slow but intrepid movement began exploring every
nook and crevice of the oyster village. There was not a family into which it did not intrude,
nor a home circle whose sanctity it did not ruthlessly invade. It scraped along the great mossy
rock; and lo! with a monstrous scratchy-te-scratch, the mother-oyster and the father-oyster
and hundreds of other oysters were torn from their resting-places and borne aloft in a very
jumbled and very frightened condition by the impertinent machine. Then down it came again,
and the sick little oyster was among the number of those who were seized by the horrid monster
this time. She found herself raised to the top of the sea; and all at once she was bumped in
a boat, where she lay, puny and helpless, on a huge pile of other oysters. Two men were handling
the fierce-looking machine. A little boy sat in the stern of the boat watching the huge pile
of oysters. He was a pretty little boy, with bright eyes and long tangled hair. He wore no
hat, and his feet were bare and brown.

"What a funny little oyster!" said the boy, picking up the sick little oyster; "it is no bigger
than my thumb, and it is very pale."

"Throw it away," said one of the men. "Like as not it is bad and not fit to eat."

"No, keep it and send it out West for a Blue Point," said the other man,--what a heartless
wretch he was!

But the little boy had already thrown the sick little oyster overboard. She fell in shallow
water, and the rising tide carried her still farther toward shore, until she lodged against
an old gum boot that lay half buried in the sand. There were no other oysters in sight; her
head ached and she was very weak; how lonesome, too, she was!--yet anything was better than
being eaten,--at least so thought the little oyster, and so, I presume, think you.

For many weeks and many months the sick little oyster lay hard by the old gum boot; and in
that time she made many acquaintances and friends among the crabs, the lobsters, the fiddlers,
the star-fish, the waves, the shells, and the gay little fishes of the ocean. They did not
harm her, for they saw that she was sick; they pitied her--some loved her. The one that loved
her most was the perch with green fins that attended school every day in the academic shade
of the big rocks in the quiet cove about a mile away. He was very gentle and attentive, and
every afternoon he brought fresh, cool sea-foam for the sick oyster to eat; he told her pretty
stories, too,--stories which his grandmother, the venerable codfish, had told him of the sea-king,
the mermaids, the pixies, the water-sprites, and the other fantastically beautiful dwellers
in ocean depths. Now while all this was very pleasant, the sick little oyster knew that the
perch's wooing was hopeless, for she was very ill and helpless, and could never think of becoming
a burden upon one so young and so promising as the gallant perch with green fins. But when
she spoke to him in this strain, he would not listen; he kept right on bringing her more and
more cool sea-foam every day.

The old gum boot was quite a motherly creature, and anon the sick little oyster became very
much attached to her. Many times as the little invalid rested her aching head affectionately
on the instep of the old gum boot, the old gum boot told her stories of the world beyond the
sea: how she had been born in a mighty forest, and how proud her folks were of their family
tree; how she had been taken from that forest and moulded into the shape she now bore; how
she had graced and served a foot in amphibious capacities, until, at last, having seen many
things and having travelled much, she had been cast off and hurled into the sea to be the scorn
of every crab and the derision of every fish. These stories were all new to the little oyster,
and amazing, too; she knew only of the sea, having lived therein all her life. She in turn
told the old gum boot quaint legends of the ocean,--the simple tales she had heard in her early
home; and there was a sweetness and a simplicity in these stories of the deep that charmed
the old gum boot, shrivelled and hardened and pessimistic though she was.

Yet, in spite of it all,--the kindness, the care, the amusements, and the devotion of her friends,--the
little oyster remained always a sick and fragile thing. But no one heard her complain, for
she bore her suffering patiently.

Not far from this beach where the ocean ended its long travels there was a city, and in this
city there dwelt with her parents a maiden of the name of Margaret. From infancy she had been
sickly, and although she had now reached the years of early womanhood, she could not run or
walk about as others did, but she had to be wheeled hither and thither in a chair. This was
very sad; yet Margaret was so gentle and uncomplaining that from aught she said you never would
have thought her life was full of suffering. Seeing her helplessness, the sympathetic things
of Nature had compassion and were very good to Margaret. The sunbeams stole across her pathway
everywhere, the grass clustered thickest and greenest where she went, the winds caressed her
gently as they passed, and the birds loved to perch near her window and sing their prettiest
songs. Margaret loved them all,--the sunlight, the singing winds, the grass, the carolling
birds. She communed with them; their wisdom inspired her life, and this wisdom gave her nature
a rare beauty.

Every pleasant day Margaret was wheeled from her home in the city down to the beach, and there
for hours she would sit, looking out, far out upon the ocean, as if she were communing with
the ocean spirits that lifted up their white arms from the restless waters and beckoned her
to come. Oftentimes the children playing on the beach came where Margaret sat, and heard her
tell little stories of the pebbles and the shells, of the ships away out at sea, of the ever-speeding
gulls, of the grass, of the flowers, and of the other beautiful things of life; and so in time
the children came to love Margaret. Among those who so often gathered to hear the gentle sick
girl tell her pretty stories was a youth of Margaret's age,--older than the others, a youth
with sturdy frame and a face full of candor and earnestness. His name was Edward, and he was
a student in the city; he hoped to become a great scholar sometime, and he toiled very zealously
to that end. The patience, the gentleness, the sweet simplicity, the fortitude of the sick
girl charmed him. He found in her little stories a quaint and beautiful philosophy he never
yet had found in books; there was a valor in her life he never yet had read of in the histories.
So, every day she came and sat upon the beach, Edward came too; and with the children he heard
Margaret's stories of the sea, the air, the grass, the birds, and the flowers.

From her moist eyry in the surf the old gum boot descried the group upon the beach each pleasant
day. Now the old gum boot had seen enough of the world to know a thing or two, as we presently
shall see.

"That tall young man is not a child," quoth the old gum boot, "yet he comes every day with
the children to hear the sick girl tell her stories! Ah, ha!"

"Perhaps he is the doctor," suggested the little oyster; and then she added with a sigh, "but,
oh! I hope not."

This suggestion seemed to amuse the old gum boot highly; at least she fell into such hysterical
laughter that she sprung a leak near her little toe, which, considering her environments, was
a serious mishap.

"Unless I am greatly mistaken, my child," said the old gum boot to the little oyster, "that
young man is in love with the sick girl!"

"Oh, how terrible!" said the little oyster; and she meant it too, for she was thinking of the
gallant young perch with green fins.

"Well, I've said it, and I mean it!" continued the old gum boot; "now just wait and see."

The old gum boot had guessed aright--so much for the value of worldly experience! Edward loved
Margaret; to him she was the most beautiful, the most perfect being in the world; her very
words seemed to exalt his nature. Yet he never spoke to her of love. He was content to come
with the children to hear her stories, to look upon her sweet face, and to worship her in silence.
Was not that a very wondrous love?

In course of time the sick girl Margaret became more interested in the little ones that thronged
daily to hear her pretty stories, and she put her beautiful fancies into the little songs and
quaint poems and tender legends,--songs and poems and legends about the sea, the flowers, the
birds, and the other beautiful creations of Nature; and in all there was a sweet simplicity,
a delicacy, a reverence, that bespoke Margaret's spiritual purity and wisdom. In this teaching,
and marvelling ever at its beauty, Edward grew to manhood. She was his inspiration, yet he
never spoke of love to Margaret. And so the years went by.

Beginning with the children, the world came to know the sick girl's power. Her songs were sung
in every home, and in every home her verses and her little stories were repeated. And so it
was that Margaret came to be beloved of all, but he who loved her best spoke never of his love
to her.

And as these years went by, the sick little oyster lay in the sea cuddled close to the old
gum boot. She was wearier now than ever before, for there was no cure for her malady. The gallant
perch with green fins was very sad, for his wooing had been hopeless. Still he was devoted,
and still he came each day to the little oyster, bringing her cool sea-foam and other delicacies
of the ocean. Oh, how sick the little oyster was! But the end came at last.

The children were on the beach one day, waiting for Margaret, and they wondered that she did
not come. Presently, grown restless, many of the boys scampered into the water and stood there,
with their trousers rolled up, boldly daring the little waves that rippled up from the overflow
of the surf. And one little boy happened upon the old gum boot. It was a great discovery.

"See the old gum boot," cried the boy, fishing it out of the water and holding it on high.
"And here is a little oyster fastened to it! How funny!"

The children gathered round the curious object on the beach. None of them had ever seen such
a funny old gum boot, and surely none of them had ever seen such a funny little oyster. They
tore the pale, knotted little thing from her foster-mother, and handled her with such rough
curiosity that even had she been a robust oyster she must certainly have died. At any rate,
the little oyster was dead now; and the bereaved perch with green fins must have known it,
for he swam up and down his native cove disconsolately.

It befell in that same hour that Margaret lay upon her death-bed, and knowing that she had
not long to live, she sent for Edward. And Edward, when he came to her, was filled with anguish,
and clasping her hands in his, he told her of his love.

Then Margaret answered him: "I knew it, dear one; and all the songs I have sung and all the
words I have spoken and all the prayers I have made have been with you, dear one,--all with
you, in my heart of hearts."

"You have purified and exalted my life," cried Edward; "you have been my best and sweetest
inspiration; you have taught me the eternal truth,--you are my beloved!"

And Margaret said: "Then in my weakness hath there been a wondrous strength, and from my sufferings
cometh the glory I have sought!"

So Margaret died, and like a broken lily she lay upon her couch; and all the sweetness of her
pure and gentle life seemed to come back and rest upon her face; and the songs she had sung
and the beautiful stories she had told came back, too, on angel wings, and made sweet music
in that chamber.

The children were lingering on the beach when Edward came that day. He could hear them singing
the songs Margaret had taught them. They wondered that he came alone.

"See," cried one of the boys, running to meet him and holding a tiny shell in his hand,--"see
what we have found in this strange little shell. Is it not beautiful!"

Edward took the dwarfed, misshapen thing, and lo! it held a beauteous pearl.

O little sister mine, let me look into your eyes and read an inspiration there; let me hold
your thin white hand and know the strength of a philosophy more beautiful than human knowledge
teaches; let me see in your dear, patient little face and hear in your gentle voice the untold
valor of your suffering life. Come, little sister, let me fold you in my arms and have you
ever with me, that in the glory of your faith and love I may walk the paths of wisdom and of peace.

1887.

+THE SPRINGTIME+

THE SPRINGTIME

A child once said to his grandsire: "Gran'pa, what do the flowers mean when they talk to the
old oak-tree about death? I hear them talking every day, but I cannot understand; it is all
very strange."

The grandsire bade the child think no more of these things; the flowers were foolish prattlers,--what
right had they to put such notions into a child's head? But the child did not do his grandsire's
bidding; he loved the flowers and the trees, and he went each day to hear them talk.

It seems that the little vine down by the stone wall had overheard the south wind say to the
rose-bush: "You are a proud, imperious beauty now, and will not listen to my suit; but wait
till my boisterous brother comes from the North,--then you will droop and wither and die, all
because you would not listen to me and fly with me to my home by the Southern sea."

These words set the little vine to thinking; and when she had thought for a long time she spoke
to the daisy about it, and the daisy called in the violet, and the three little ones had a
very serious conference; but, having talked it all over, they came to the conclusion that it
was as much of a mystery as ever. The old oak-tree saw them.

"You little folks seem very much puzzled about something," said the old oak-tree.

"I heard the south wind tell the rose-bush that she would die," exclaimed the vine, "and we
do not understand what it is. Can you tell us what it is to die?"

The old oak-tree smiled sadly.

"I do not call it death," said the old oak-tree; "I call it sleep,--a long, restful, refreshing
sleep."

"How does it feel?" inquired the daisy, looking very full of astonishment and anxiety.

"You must know," said the old oak-tree, "that after many, many days we all have had such merry
times and have bloomed so long and drunk so heartily of the dew and sunshine and eaten so much
of the goodness of the earth that we feel very weary and we long for repose. Then a great wind
comes out of the north, and we shiver in its icy blast. The sunshine goes away, and there is
no dew for us nor any nourishment in the earth, and we are glad to go to sleep."

"Mercy on me!" cried the vine, "I shall not like that at all! What, leave this smiling meadow
and all the pleasant grass and singing bees and frolicsome butterflies? No, old oak-tree, I
would never go to sleep; I much prefer sporting with the winds and playing with my little friends,
the daisy and the violet."

"And I," said the violet, "I think it would be dreadful to go to sleep. What if we never should
wake up again!"

The suggestion struck the others dumb with terror,--all but the old oak-tree.

"Have no fear of that," said the old oak-tree, "for you are sure to awaken again, and when
you have awakened the new life will be sweeter and happier than the old."

"What nonsense!" cried the thistle.

"You children shouldn't believe a word of it. When you go to sleep you die, and when you die
there's the last of you!"

The old oak-tree reproved the thistle; but the thistle maintained his abominable heresy so
stoutly that the little vine and the daisy and the violet were quite at a loss to know which
of the two to believe,--the old oak-tree or the thistle.

The child heard it all and was sorely puzzled. What was this death, this mysterious sleep?
Would it come upon him, the child? And after he had slept awhile would he awaken? His grandsire
would not tell him of these things; perhaps his grandsire did not know.

It was a long, long summer, full of sunshine and bird-music, and the meadow was like a garden,
and the old oak-tree looked down upon the grass and flowers and saw that no evil befell them.
A long, long play-day it was to the little vine, the daisy, and the violet. The crickets and
the grasshoppers and the bumblebees joined in the sport, and romped and made music till it
seemed like an endless carnival. Only every now and then the vine and her little flower friends
talked with the old oak-tree about that strange sleep and the promised awakening, and the thistle
scoffed at the old oak-tree's cheering words. The child was there and heard it all.

One day the great wind came out of the north. Hurry-scurry! back to their warm homes in the
earth and under the old stone wall scampered the crickets and bumblebees to go to sleep. Whirr,
whirr! Oh, but how piercing the great wind was; how different from his amiable brother who
had travelled all the way from the Southern sea to kiss the flowers and woo the rose!

"Well, this is the last of us!" exclaimed the thistle; "we're going to die, and that's the
end of it all!"

"No, no," cried the old oak-tree; "we shall not die; we are going to sleep. Here, take my leaves,
little flowers, and you shall sleep warm under them. Then, when you awaken, you shall see how
much sweeter and happier the new life is."

The little ones were very weary indeed. The promised sleep came very gratefully.

"We would not be so willing to go to sleep if we thought we should not awaken," said the violet.

So the little ones went to sleep. The little vine was the last of all to sink to her slumbers;
she nodded in the wind and tried to keep awake till she saw the old oak-tree close his eyes,
but her efforts were vain; she nodded and nodded, and bowed her slender form against the old
stone wall, till finally she, too, had sunk into repose. And then the old oak-tree stretched
his weary limbs and gave a last look at the sullen sky and at the slumbering little ones at
his feet; and with that, the old oak-tree fell asleep too.

The child saw all these things, and he wanted to ask his grandsire about them, but his grandsire
would not tell him of them; perhaps his grandsire did not know.

The child saw the storm-king come down from the hills and ride furiously over the meadows and
over the forest and over the town. The snow fell everywhere, and the north wind played solemn
music in the chimneys. The storm-king put the brook to bed, and threw a great mantle of snow
over him; and the brook that had romped and prattled all the summer and told pretty tales to
the grass and flowers,--the brook went to sleep too. With all his fierceness and bluster, the
storm-king was very kind; he did not awaken the old oak-tree and the slumbering flowers. The
little vine lay under the fleecy snow against the old stone wall and slept peacefully, and
so did the violet and the daisy. Only the wicked old thistle thrashed about in his sleep as
if he dreamed bad dreams, which, all will allow, was no more than he deserved.

All through that winter--and it seemed very long--the child thought of the flowers and the
vine and the old oak-tree, and wondered whether in the springtime they would awaken from their
sleep; and he wished for the springtime to come. And at last the springtime came. One day the
sunbeams fluttered down from the sky and danced all over the meadow.

"Wake up, little friends!" cried the sunbeams,--"wake up, for it is the springtime!"

The brook was the first to respond. So eager, so fresh, so exuberant was he after his long
winter sleep, that he leaped from his bed and frolicked all over the meadow and played all
sorts of curious antics. Then a little bluebird was seen in the hedge one morning. He was calling
to the violet.

"Wake up, little violet," called the bluebird. "Have I come all this distance to find you sleeping?
Wake up; it is the springtime!"

That pretty little voice awakened the violet, of course.

"Oh, how sweetly I have slept!" cried the violet; "how happy this new life is! Welcome, dear
friends!"

And presently the daisy awakened, fresh and beautiful, and then the little vine, and, last
of all, the old oak-tree. The meadow was green, and all around there were the music, the fragrance,
the new, sweet life of the springtime.

"I slept horribly," growled the thistle. "I had bad dreams. It was sleep, after all, but it
ought to have been death."

The thistle never complained again; for just then a four-footed monster stalked through the
meadow and plucked and ate the thistle and then stalked gloomily away; which was the last of
the sceptical thistle,--truly a most miserable end!

"You said the truth, dear old oak-tree!" cried the little vine. "It was not death,--it was
only a sleep, a sweet, refreshing sleep, and this awakening is very beautiful."

They all said so,--the daisy, the violet, the oak-tree, the crickets, the bees, and all the
things and creatures of the field and forest that had awakened from their long sleep to swell
the beauty and the glory of the springtime. And they talked with the child, and the child heard
them. And although the grandsire never spoke to the child about these things, the child learned
from the flowers and trees a lesson of the springtime which perhaps the grandsire never knew.

1885

+RODOLPH AND HIS KING+

RODOLPH AND HIS KING

"Tell me, Father," said the child at Rodolph's knee,--"tell me of the king."

"There is no king, my child," said Rodolph. "What you have heard are old women's tales. Do
not believe them, for there is no king."

"But why, then," queried the child, "do all the people praise and call on him; why do the birds
sing of the king; and why do the brooks always prattle his name, as they dance from the hills
to the sea?"

"Nay," answered Rodolph, "you imagine these things; there is no king. Believe me, child, there
is no king."

So spake Rodolph; but scarcely had he uttered the words when the cricket in the chimney corner
chirped loudly, and his shrill notes seemed to say: "The king--the king." Rodolph could hardly
believe his ears. How had the cricket learned to chirp these words? It was beyond all understanding.
But still the cricket chirped, and still his musical monotone seemed to say, "The king--the
king," until, with an angry frown, Rodolph strode from his house, leaving the child to hear
the cricket's song alone.

But there were other voices to remind Rodolph of the king. The sparrows were fluttering under
the eaves, and they twittered noisily as Rodolph strode along, "The king, king, king!" "The
king, king, king," twittered the sparrows, and their little tones were full of gladness and praise.

A thrush sat in the hedge, and she was singing her morning song. It was a hymn of praise,--how
beautiful it was! "The king--the king--the king," sang the thrush, and she sang, too, of his
goodness,--it was a wondrous song, and it was all about the king.

The doves cooed in the elm-trees. "Sing to us!" cried their little ones, stretching out their
pretty heads from the nests. Then the doves nestled hard by and murmured lullabies, and the
lullabies were of the king who watched over and protected even the little birds in their nests.

Rodolph heard these things, and they filled him with anger.

"It is a lie!" muttered Rodolph; and in great petulance he came to the brook.

How noisy and romping the brook was; how capricious, how playful, how furtive! And how he called
to the willows and prattled to the listening grass as he scampered on his way. But Rodolph
turned aside and his face grew darker. He did not like the voice of the brook; for, lo! just
as the cricket had chirped and the birds had sung, so did this brook murmur and prattle and
sing ever of the king, the king, the king.

So, always after that, wherever Rodolph went, he heard voices that told him of the king; yes,
even in their quiet, humble way, the flowers seemed to whisper the king's name, and every breeze
that fanned his brow had a tale to tell of the king and his goodness.

"But there is no king!" cried Rodolph. "They all conspire to plague me! There is no king--there
is no king!"

Once he stood by the sea and saw a mighty ship go sailing by. The waves plashed on the shore
and told stories to the pebbles and the sands. Rodolph heard their thousand voices, and he
heard them telling of the king.

Then a great storm came upon the sea, a tempest such as never before had been seen. The waves
dashed mountain-high and overwhelmed the ship, and the giant voices of the winds and waves
cried of the king, the king! The sailors strove in agony till all seemed lost. Then, when they
could do no more, they stretched out their hands and called upon the king to save them,--the
king, the king, the king!

Rodolph saw the tempest subside. The angry winds were lulled, and the mountain waves sank into
sleep, and the ship came safely into port. Then the sailors sang a hymn of praise, and the
hymn was of the king and to the king.

"But there is no king!" cried Rodolph. "It is a lie; there is no king!"

Yet everywhere he went he heard always of the king; the king's name and the king's praises
were on every tongue; ay, and the things that had no voices seemed to wear the king's name
written upon them, until Rodolph neither saw nor heard anything that did not mind him of the king.

Then, in great anger, Rodolph said: "I will go to the mountain-tops; there I shall find no
birds, nor trees, nor brooks, nor flowers to prate of a monarch no one has ever seen. There
shall there be no sea to vex me with its murmurings, nor any human voice to displease me with
its superstitions."

So Rodolph went to the mountains, and he scaled the loftiest pinnacle, hoping that there at
last he might hear no more of that king whom none had ever seen. And as he stood upon the pinnacle,
what a mighty panorama was spread before him, and what a mighty anthem swelled upon his ears!
The peopled plains, with their songs and murmurings, lay far below; on every side the mountain
peaks loomed up in snowy grandeur; and overhead he saw the sky, blue, cold, and cloudless,
from horizon to horizon.

What voice was that which spoke in Rodolph's bosom then as Rodolph's eyes beheld this revelation?

"There is a king!" said the voice. "The king lives, and this is his abiding-place!"

And how did Rodolph's heart stand still when he felt Silence proclaim the king,--not in tones
of thunder, as the tempest had proclaimed him, nor in the singing voices of the birds and brooks,
but so swiftly, so surely, so grandly, that Rodolph's soul was filled with awe ineffable.

Then Rodolph cried: "There is a king, and I acknowledge him! Henceforth my voice shall swell
the songs of all in earth and air and sea that know and praise his name!"

So Rodolph went to his home. He heard the cricket singing of the king; yes, and the sparrows
under the eaves, the thrush in the hedge, the doves in the elms, and the brook, too, all singing
of the king; and Rodolph's heart was gladdened by their music. And all the earth and the things
of the earth seemed more beautiful to Rodolph now that he believed in the king; and to the
song all Nature sang Rodolph's voice and Rodolph's heart made harmonious response.

"There is a king, my child," said Rodolph to his little one. "Together let us sing to him,
for he is our king, and his goodness abideth forever and forever."

1885.

+THE HAMPSHIRE HILLS+

THE HAMPSHIRE HILLS

One afternoon many years ago two little brothers named Seth and Abner were playing in the orchard.
They were not troubled with the heat of the August day, for a soft, cool wind came up from
the river in the valley over yonder and fanned their red cheeks and played all kinds of pranks
with their tangled curls. All about them was the hum of bees, the song of birds, the smell
of clover, and the merry music of the crickets. Their little dog Fido chased them through the
high, waving grass, and rolled with them under the trees, and barked himself hoarse in his
attempt to keep pace with their laughter. Wearied at length, they lay beneath the bellflower-tree
and looked off at the Hampshire hills, and wondered if the time ever would come when they should
go out into the world beyond those hills and be great, noisy men. Fido did not understand it
at all. He lolled in the grass, cooling his tongue on the clover bloom, and puzzling his brain
to know why his little masters were so quiet all at once.

"I wish I were a man," said Abner, ruefully. "I want to be somebody and do something. It is
very hard to be a little boy so long and to have no companions but little boys and girls, to
see nothing but these same old trees and this same high grass, and to hear nothing but the
same bird-songs from one day to another."

"That is true," said Seth. "I, too, am very tired of being a little boy, and I long to go out
into the world and be a man like my gran'pa or my father or my uncles. With nothing to look
at but those distant hills and the river in the valley, my eyes are wearied; and I shall be
very happy when I am big enough to leave this stupid place."

Had Fido understood their words he would have chided them, for the little dog loved his home
and had no thought of any other pleasure than romping through the orchard and playing with
his little masters all the day. But Fido did not understand them.

The clover bloom heard them with sadness. Had they but listened in turn they would have heard
the clover saying softly: "Stay with me while you may, little boys; trample me with your merry
feet; let me feel the imprint of your curly heads and kiss the sunburn on your little cheeks.
Love me while you may, for when you go away you never will come back."

The bellflower-tree heard them, too, and she waved her great, strong branches as if she would
caress the impatient little lads, and she whispered: "Do not think of leaving me: you are children,
and you know nothing of the world beyond those distant hills. It is full of trouble and care
and sorrow; abide here in this quiet spot till you are prepared to meet the vexations of that
outer world. We are for you,--we trees and grass and birds and bees and flowers. Abide with
us, and learn the wisdom we teach."

The cricket in the raspberry-hedge heard them, and she chirped, oh! so sadly: "You will go
out into the world and leave us and never think of us again till it is too late to return.
Open your ears, little boys, and hear my song of contentment."

So spake the clover bloom and the bellflower-tree and the cricket; and in like manner the robin
that nested in the linden over yonder, and the big bumblebee that lived in the hole under the
pasture gate, and the butterfly and the wild rose pleaded with them, each in his own way; but
the little boys did not heed them, so eager were their desires to go into and mingle with the
great world beyond those distant hills.

Many years went by; and at last Seth and Abner grew to manhood, and the time was come when
they were to go into the world and be brave, strong men. Fido had been dead a long time. They
had made him a grave under the bellflower-tree,--yes, just where he had romped with the two
little boys that August afternoon Fido lay sleeping amid the humming of the bees and the perfume
of the clover. But Seth and Abner did not think of Fido now, nor did they give even a passing
thought to any of their old friends,--the bellflower-tree, the clover, the cricket, and the
robin. Their hearts beat with exultation. They were men, and they were going beyond the hills
to know and try the world.

They were equipped for that struggle, not in a vain, frivolous way, but as good and brave young
men should be. A gentle mother had counselled them, a prudent father had advised them, and
they had gathered from the sweet things of Nature much of that wisdom before which all knowledge
is as nothing. So they were fortified. They went beyond the hills and came into the West. How
great and busy was the world,--how great and busy it was here in the West! What a rush and
noise and turmoil and seething and surging, and how keenly did the brothers have to watch and
struggle for vantage ground. Withal, they prospered; the counsel of the mother, the advice
of the father, the wisdom of the grass and flowers and trees, were much to them, and they prospered.
Honor and riches came to them, and they were happy. But amid it all, how seldom they thought
of the little home among the circling hills where they had learned the first sweet lessons of life!

And now they were old and gray. They lived in splendid mansions, and all people paid them honor.

One August day a grim messenger stood in Seth's presence and beckoned to him.

"Who are you?" cried Seth. "What strange power have you over me that the very sight of you
chills my blood and stays the beating of my heart?"

Then the messenger threw aside his mask, and Seth saw that he was Death. Seth made no outcry;
he knew what the summons meant, and he was content. But he sent for Abner.

And when Abner came, Seth was stretched upon his bed, and there was a strange look in his eyes
and a flush upon his cheeks, as though a fatal fever had laid hold on him.

"You shall not die!" cried Abner, and he threw himself about his brother's neck and wept.

But Seth bade Abner cease his outcry. "Sit here by my bedside and talk with me," said he, "and
let us speak of the Hampshire hills."

A great wonder overcame Abner. With reverence he listened, and as he listened a sweet peace
seemed to steal into his soul.

"I am prepared for Death," said Seth, "and I will go with Death this day. Let us talk of our
childhood now, for, after all the battle with this great world, it is pleasant to think and
speak of our boyhood among the Hampshire hills."

"Say on, dear brother," said Abner.

"I am thinking of an August day long ago," said Seth, solemnly and softly. "It was so very
long ago, and yet it seems only yesterday. We were in the orchard together, under the bellflower-tree,
and our little dog--"

"Fido," said Abner, remembering it all, as the years came back.

"Fido and you and I, under the bellflower-tree," said Seth. "How we had played, and how weary
we were, and how cool the grass was, and how sweet was the fragrance of the flowers! Can you
remember it, brother?"

"Oh, yes," replied Abner, "and I remember how we lay among the clover and looked off at the
distant hills and wondered of the world beyond."

"And amid our wonderings and longings," said Seth, "how the old bellflower-tree seemed to stretch
her kind arms down to us as if she would hold us away from that world beyond the hills."

"And now I can remember that the clover whispered to us, and the cricket in the raspberry-hedge
sang to us of contentment," said Abner.

"The robin, too, carolled in the linden."

"It is very sweet to remember it now," said Seth. "How blue and hazy the hills looked; how
cool the breeze blew up from the river; how like a silver lake the old pickerel pond sweltered
under the summer sun over beyond the pasture and broomcorn, and how merry was the music of
the birds and bees!"

So these old men, who had been little boys together, talked of the August afternoon when with
Fido they had romped in the orchard and rested beneath the bell-flower-tree. And Seth's voice
grew fainter, and his eyes were, oh! so dim; but to the very last he spoke of the dear old
days and the orchard and the clover and the Hampshire hills. And when Seth fell asleep forever,
Abner kissed his brother's lips and knelt at the bedside and said the prayer his mother had
taught him.

In the street without there was the noise of passing carts, the cries of tradespeople, and
all the bustle of a great and busy city; but, looking upon Seth's dear, dead face, Abner could
hear only the music voices of birds and crickets and summer winds as he had heard them with
Seth when they were little boys together, back among the Hampshire hills.

1885.

+EZRA'S THANKSGIVIN' OUT WEST+

EZRA'S THANKSGIVIN' OUT WEST

Ezra had written a letter to the home folks, and in it he had complained that never before
had he spent such a weary, lonesome day as this Thanksgiving day had been. Having finished
this letter, he sat for a long time gazing idly into the open fire that snapped cinders all
over the hearthstone and sent its red forks dancing up the chimney to join the winds that frolicked
and gambolled across the Kansas prairies that raw November night. It had rained hard all day,
and was cold; and although the open fire made every honest effort to be cheerful, Ezra, as
he sat in front of it in the wooden rocker and looked down into the glowing embers, experienced
a dreadful feeling of loneliness and homesickness.

"I'm sick o' Kansas," said Ezra to himself. "Here I 've been in this plaguy country for goin'
on a year, and--yes, I'm sick of it, powerful sick of it. What a miser'ble Thanksgivin' this
has been! They don't know what Thanksgivin' is out this way. I wish I was back in ol' Mass'chusetts--that's
the country for me, and they hev the kind o' Thanksgivin' I like!"

Musing in this strain, while the rain went patter-patter on the window-panes, Ezra saw a strange
sight in the fireplace,--yes, right among the embers and the crackling flames Ezra saw a strange,
beautiful picture unfold and spread itself out like a panorama.

"How very wonderful!" murmured the young man. Yet he did not take his eyes away, for the picture
soothed him and he loved to look upon it.

"It is a pictur' of long ago," said Ezra, softly. "I had like to forgot it, but now it comes
back to me as nat'ral-like as an ol' friend. An' I seem to be a part of it, an' the feelin'
of that time comes back with the pictur', too."

Ezra did not stir. His head rested upon his hand, and his eyes were fixed upon the shadows
in the firelight.

"It is a pictur' of the ol' home," said Ezra to himself. "I am back there in Belchertown, with
the Holyoke hills up north an' the Berkshire mountains a-loomin' up gray an' misty-like in
the western horizon. Seems as if it wuz early mornin'; everything is still, and it is so cold
when we boys crawl out o' bed that, if it wuzn't Thanksgivin' mornin', we'd crawl back again
an' wait for Mother to call us. But it is Thanksgivin' mornin', an' we're goin' skatin' down
on the pond. The squealin' o' the pigs has told us it is five o'clock, and we must hurry; we're
goin' to call by for the Dickerson boys an' Hiram Peabody, an' we've got to hyper! Brother
Amos gets on 'bout half o' my clo'es, an' I get on 'bout half o' his, but it's all the same;
they are stout, warm clo'es, and they're big enough to fit any of us boys,--Mother looked out
for that when she made 'em. When we go down-stairs we find the girls there, all bundled up
nice an' warm,--Mary an' Helen an' Cousin Irene. They're goin' with us, an' we all start out
tiptoe and quiet-like so's not to wake up the ol' folks. The ground is frozen hard; we stub
our toes on the frozen ruts in the road. When we come to the minister's house, Laura is standin'
on the front stoop, a-waitin' for us. Laura is the minister's daughter. She's a friend o' Sister
Helen's--pretty as a dag'err'otype, an' gentle-like and tender. Laura lets me carry her skates,
an' I'm glad of it, although I have my hands full already with the lantern, the hockies, and
the rest. Hiram Peabody keeps us waitin', for he has overslept himself, an' when he comes trottin'
out at last the girls make fun of him,--all except Sister Mary, an' she sort o' sticks up for
Hiram, an' we're all so 'cute we kind o' calc'late we know the reason why.

"And now," said Ezra, softly, "the pictur' changes; seems as if I could see the pond. The ice
is like a black lookin'-glass, and Hiram Peabody slips up the first thing, an' down he comes
lickety-split, an' we all laugh,--except Sister Mary, an' she says it is very imp'lite to laugh
at other folks' misfortunes. Ough! how cold it is, and how my fingers ache with the frost when
I take off my mittens to strap on Laura's skates! But, oh, how my cheeks burn! And how careful
I am not to hurt Laura, an' how I ask her if that's 'tight enough,' an' how she tells me 'jist
a little tighter,' and how we two keep foolin' along till the others hev gone an' we are left
alone! An' how quick I get my own skates strapped on,--none o' your new-fangled skates with
springs an' plates an' clamps an' such, but honest, ol'-fashioned wooden ones with steel runners
that curl up over my toes an' have a bright brass button on the end! How I strap 'em and lash
'em and buckle 'em on! An' Laura waits for me an' tells me to be sure to get 'em on tight enough,--why,
bless me! after I once got 'em strapped on, if them skates hed come off, the feet w'u'd ha'
come with 'em! An' now away we go,--Laura an' me. Around the bend--near the medder where Si
Barker's dog killed a woodchuck last summer--we meet the rest. We forget all about the cold.
We run races an' play snap the whip, an' cut all sorts o' didoes, an' we never mind the pick'rel
weed that is froze in on the ice an' trips us up every time we cut the outside edge; an' then
we boys jump over the airholes, an' the girls stan' by an' scream an' tell us they know we're
agoin' to drownd ourselves. So the hours go, an' it is sun-up at last, an' Sister Helen says
we must be gettin' home. When we take our skates off, our feet feel as if they were wood. Laura
has lost her tippet; I lend her mine, an' she kind o' blushes. The old pond seems glad to have
us go, and the fire-hangbird's nest in the willer-tree waves us good-by. Laura promises to
come over to our house in the evenin', and so we break up.

"Seems now," continued Ezra, musingly,--"seems now as if I could see us all at breakfast. The
race on the pond has made us hungry, and Mother says she never knew anybody else's boys that
had such capac'ties as hers. It is the Yankee Thanksgivin' breakfast,--sausages an' fried potatoes,
an' buckwheat cakes an' syrup,--maple syrup, mind ye, for Father has his own sugar-bush, and
there was a big run o' sap last season. Mother says, 'Ezry an' Amos, won't you never get through
eatin'? We want to clear off the table, for there's pies to make, an' nuts to crack, and laws
sakes alive! the turkey's got to be stuffed yit!' Then how we all fly round! Mother sends Helen
up into the attic to get a squash while Mary's makin' the pie-crust. Amos an' I crack the walnuts,--they
call 'em hickory nuts out in this pesky country of sage-brush and pasture land. The walnuts
are hard, and it's all we can do to crack 'em. Ev'ry once 'n a while one on 'em slips outer
our fingers an' goes dancin' over the floor or flies into the pan Helen is squeezin' pumpkin
into through the col'nder. Helen says we're shif'less an' good for nothin' but frivollin';
but Mother tells us how to crack the walnuts so's not to let 'em fly all over the room, an'
so's not to be all jammed to pieces like the walnuts was down at the party at the Peasleys'
last winter. An' now here comes Tryphena Foster, with her gingham gown an' muslin apron on;
her folks have gone up to Amherst for Thanksgivin', an' Tryphena has come over to help our
folks get dinner. She thinks a great deal o' Mother, 'cause Mother teaches her Sunday-school
class an' says Tryphena oughter marry a missionary. There is bustle everywhere, the rattle
of pans an' the clatter of dishes; an' the new kitch'n stove begins to warm up an' git red,
till Helen loses her wits an' is flustered, an' sez she never could git the hang o' that stove's
dampers.

"An' now," murmured Ezra, gently, as a tone of deeper reverence crept into his voice, "I can
see Father sittin' all by himself in the parlor. Father's hair is very gray, and there are
wrinkles on his honest old face. He is lookin' through the winder at the Holyoke hills over
yonder, and I can guess he's thinkin' of the time when he wuz a boy like me an' Amos, an' useter
climb over them hills an' kill rattlesnakes an' hunt partridges. Or doesn't his eyes quite
reach the Holyoke hills? Do they fall kind o' lovingly but sadly on the little buryin'-ground
jest beyond the village? Ah, Father knows that spot, an' he loves it, too, for there are treasures
there whose memory he wouldn't swap for all the world could give. So, while there is a kind
o' mist in Father's eyes, I can see he is dreamin'-like of sweet an' tender things, and a-com-munin'
with memory,--hearin' voices I never heard an' feelin' the tech of hands I never pressed; an'
seein' Father's peaceful face I find it hard to think of a Thanksgivin' sweeter than Father's is.

"The pictur' in the firelight changes now," said Ezra, "an' seems as if I wuz in the old frame
meetin'-house. The meetin'-house is on the hill, and meetin' begins at half-pas' ten. Our pew
is well up in front,--seems as if I could see it now. It has a long red cushion on the seat,
and in the hymn-book rack there is a Bible an' a couple of Psalmodies. We walk up the aisle
slow, and Mother goes in first; then comes Mary, then me, then Helen, then Amos, and then Father.
Father thinks it is jest as well to have one o' the girls set in between me an' Amos. The meetin'-house
is full, for everybody goes to meetin' Thanksgivin' day. The minister reads the proclamation
an' makes a prayer, an' then he gives out a psalm, an' we all stan' up an' turn round an' join
the choir. Sam Merritt has come up from Palmer to spend Thanksgivin' with the ol' folks, an'
he is singin' tenor to-day in his ol' place in the choir. Some folks say he sings wonderful
well, but I don't like Sam's voice. Laura sings soprano in the choir, and Sam stands next to
her an' holds the book.

"Seems as if I could hear the minister's voice, full of earnestness an' melody, comin' from
'way up in his little round pulpit. He is tellin' us why we should be thankful, an', as he
quotes Scriptur' an' Dr. Watts, we boys wonder how anybody can remember so much of the Bible.
Then I get nervous and worried. Seems to me the minister was never comin' to lastly, and I
find myself wonderin' whether Laura is listenin' to what the preachin' is about, or is writin'
notes to Sam Merritt in the back of the tune-book. I get thirsty, too, and I fidget about till
Father looks at me, and Mother nudges Helen, and Helen passes it along to me with interest.

"An' then," continues Ezra in his revery, "when the last hymn is given out an' we stan' up
ag'in an' join the choir, I am glad to see that Laura is singin' outer the book with Miss Hubbard,
the alto. An' goin' out o' meetin' I kind of edge up to Laura and ask her if I kin have the
pleasure of seen' her home.

"An' now we boys all go out on the Common to play ball. The Enfield boys have come over, and,
as all the Hampshire county folks know, they are tough fellers to beat. Gorham Polly keeps
tally, because he has got the newest jack-knife,--oh, how slick it whittles the old broom-handle
Gorham picked up in Packard's store an' brought along jest to keep tally on! It is a great
game of ball; the bats are broad and light, and the ball is small and soft. But the Enfield
boys beat us at last; leastwise they make 70 tallies to our 58, when Heman Fitts knocks the
ball over into Aunt Dorcas Eastman's yard, and Aunt Dorcas comes out an' picks up the ball
an' takes it into the house, an' we have to stop playin'. Then Phineas Owens allows he can
flop any boy in Belchertown, an' Moses Baker takes him up, an' they wrassle like two tartars,
till at last Moses tuckers Phineas out an' downs him as slick as a whistle.

"Then we all go home, for Thanksgivin' dinner is ready. Two long tables have been made into
one, and one of the big tablecloths Gran'ma had when she set up housekeepin' is spread over
'em both. We all set round, Father, Mother, Aunt Lydia Holbrook, Uncle Jason, Mary, Helen,
Tryphena Foster, Amos, and me. How big an' brown the turkey is, and how good it smells! There
are bounteous dishes of mashed potato, turnip, an' squash, and the celery is very white and
cold, the biscuits are light an' hot, and the stewed cranberries are red as Laura's cheeks.
Amos and I get the drumsticks; Mary wants the wish-bone to put overthe door for Hiram, but
Helen gets it. Poor Mary, she always did have to give up to 'rushin' Helen,' as we call her.
The pies,--oh, what pies Mother makes; no dyspepsia in 'em, but good-nature an' good health
an' hospitality! Pumpkin pies, mince an' apple too, and then a big dish of pippins an' russets
an' bellflowers, an', last of all, walnuts with cider from the Zebrina Dickerson farm! I tell
ye, there's a Thanksgivin' dinner for ye! that's what we get in old Belchertown; an' that's
the kind of livin' that makes the Yankees so all-fired good an' smart.

"But the best of all," said Ezra, very softly to himself,--"oh, yes, the best scene in all
the pictur' is when evenin' comes, when the lamps are lit in the parlor, when the neighbors
come in, and when there is music an' singin' an' games. An' it's this part o' the pictur' that
makes me homesick now and fills my heart with a longin' I never had before; an' yet it sort
o' mellows an' comforts me, too. Miss Serena Cadwell, whose beau was killed in the war, plays
on the melodeon, and we all sing,--all on us, men, womenfolks, an' children. Sam Merritt is
there, an' he sings a tenor song about love. The women sort of whisper round that he's goin'
to be married to a Palmer lady nex' spring, an' I think to myself I never heard better singin'
than Sam's. Then we play games, proverbs, buzz, clap-in-clap-out, copenhagen, fox-an'-geese,
button-button-who's- got-the-button, spin-the-platter, go-to-Jerusalem, my-ship's-come-in,
and all the rest. The ol' folks play with the young folks just as nat'ral as can be; and we
all laugh when Deacon Hosea Cowles hez to measure six yards of love ribbon with Miss Hepsy
Newton, and cut each yard with a kiss; for the deacon hez been sort o' purrin' round Miss Hepsy
for goin' on two years. Then, aft'r a while, when Mary an' Helen bring in the cookies, nut-cakes,
cider, an' apples, Mother says: 'I don't b'lieve we're goin' to hev enough apples to go round;
Ezry, I guess I'll have to get you to go down-cellar for some more.' Then I says: 'All right,
Mother, I'll go, providin' some one'll go along an' hold the candle.' An' when I say this I
look right at Laura and she blushes. Then Helen, jest for meanness, says: 'Ezry, I s'pose you
ain't willin' to have your fav'rite sister go down-cellar with you an' catch her death o' cold?'
But Mary, who hez been showin' Hiram Peabody the phot'graph album for more 'n an hour, comes
to the rescue an' makes Laura take the candle, and she shows Laura how to hold it so it won't
go out.

"The cellar is warm an' dark. There are cobwebs all between the rafters an' everywhere else
except on the shelves where Mother keeps the butter an' eggs an' other things that would freeze
in the butt'ry upstairs. The apples are in bar'ls up against the wall, near the potater-bin.
How fresh an' sweet they smell! Laura thinks she sees a mouse, an' she trembles an' wants to
jump up on the pork-bar'l, but I tell her that there sha'n't no mouse hurt her while I'm round;
and I mean it, too, for the sight of Laura a-tremblin' makes me as strong as one of Father's
steers. 'What kind of apples do you like best, Ezry?' asks Laura,--'russets or greenin's or
crow-eggs or bell-flowers or Baldwins or pippins?' 'I like the Baldwins best,' says I, ''coz
they've got red cheeks jest like yours.' 'Why, Ezry Thompson! how you talk!' says Laura. 'You
oughter be ashamed of yourself!' But when I get the dish filled up with apples there ain't
a Baldwin in all the lot that can compare with the bright red of Laura's cheeks. An' Laura
knows it, too, an' she sees the mouse ag'in, an' screams, and then the candle goes out, and
we are in a dreadful stew. But I, bein' almost a man, contrive to bear up under it, and knowin'
she is an orph'n, I comfort an' encourage Laura the best I know how, and we are almost up-stairs
when Mother comes to the door and wants to know what has kep' us so long. Jest as if Mother
doesn't know! Of course she does; an' when Mother kisses Laura good-by that night there is
in the act a tenderness that speaks more sweetly than even Mother's words.

"It is so like Mother," mused Ezra; "so like her with her gentleness an' clingin' love. Hers
is the sweetest picture of all, and hers the best love."

Dream on, Ezra; dream of the old home with its dear ones, its holy influences, and its precious
inspiration,--mother. Dream on in the far-away firelight; and as the angel hand of memory unfolds
these sacred visions, with thee and them shall abide, like a Divine comforter, the spirit of
thanksgiving.

1885.

+LUDWIG AND ELOISE+

LUDWIG AND ELOISE

Once upon a time there were two youths named Herman and Ludwig; and they both loved Eloise,
the daughter of the old burgomaster. Now, the old burgomaster was very rich, and having no
child but Eloise, he was anxious that she should be well married and settled in life. "For,"
said he, "death is likely to come to me at any time: I am old and feeble, and I want to see
my child sheltered by another's love before I am done with earth forever."

Eloise was much beloved by all the youth in the village, and there was not one who would not
gladly have taken her to wife; but none loved her so much as did Herman and Ludwig. Nor did
Eloise care for any but Herman and Ludwig, and she loved Herman. The burgomaster said: "Choose
whom you will--I care not! So long as he be honest I will have him for a son and thank Heaven
for him."

So Eloise chose Herman, and all said she chose wisely; for Herman was young and handsome, and
by his valor had won distinction in the army, and had thrice been complimented by the general.
So when the brave young captain led Eloise to the altar there was great rejoicing in the village.
The beaux, forgetting their disappointments, and the maidens, seeing the cause of all their
jealousy removed, made merry together; and it was said that never had there been in the history
of the province an event so joyous as was the wedding of Herman and Eloise.

But in all the village there was one aching heart. Ludwig, the young musician, saw with quiet
despair the maiden he loved go to the altar with another. He had known Eloise from childhood,
and he could not say when his love of her began, it was so very long ago; but now he knew his
heart was consumed by a hopeless passion. Once, at a village festival, he had begun to speak
to her of his love; but Eloise had placed her hand kindly upon his lips and told him to say
no further, for they had always been and always would be brother and sister. So Ludwig never
spoke his love after that, and Eloise and he were as brother and sister; but the love of her
grew always within him, and he had no thought but of her.

And now, when Eloise and Herman were wed, Ludwig feigned that he had received a message from
a rich relative in a distant part of the kingdom bidding him come thither, and Ludwig went
from the village and was seen there no more.

When the burgomaster died all his possessions went to Herman and Eloise; and they were accounted
the richest folk in the province, and so good and charitable were they that they were beloved
by all. Meanwhile Herman had risen to greatness in the army, for by his valorous exploits he
had become a general, and he was much endeared to the king. And Eloise and Herman lived in
a great castle in the midst of a beautiful park, and the people came and paid them reverence there.

And no one in all these years spoke of Ludwig. No one thought of him. Ludwig was forgotten.
And so the years went by.

It came to pass, however, that from a far-distant province there spread the fame of a musician
so great that the king sent for him to visit the court. No one knew the musician's name nor
whence he came, for he lived alone and would never speak of himself; but his music was so tender
and beautiful that it was called heart-music, and he himself was called the Master. He was
old and bowed with infirmities, but his music was always of youth and love; it touched every
heart with its simplicity and pathos, and all wondered how this old and broken man could create
so much of tenderness and sweetness on these themes.

But when the king sent for the Master to come to court the Master returned him answer: "No,
I am old and feeble. To leave my home would weary me unto death. Let me die here as I have
lived these long years, weaving my music for hearts that need my solace."

Then the people wondered. But the king was not angry; in pity he sent the Master a purse of
gold, and bade him come or not come, as he willed. Such honor had never before been shown any
subject in the kingdom, and all the people were dumb with amazement. But the Master gave the
purse of gold to the poor of the village wherein he lived.

In those days Herman died, full of honors and years, and there was a great lamentation in the
land, for Herman was beloved by all. And Eloise wept unceasingly and would not be comforted.

On the seventh day after Herman had been buried there came to the castle in the park an aged
and bowed man who carried in his white and trembling hands a violin. His kindly face was deeply
wrinkled, and a venerable beard swept down upon his breast. He was weary and foot-sore, but
he heeded not the words of pity bestowed on him by all who beheld him tottering on his way.
He knocked boldly at the castle gate, and demanded to be brought into the presence of Eloise.

And Eloise said: "Bid him enter; perchance his music will comfort my breaking heart."

Then, when the old man had come into her presence, behold! he was the Master,--ay, the Master
whose fame was in every land, whose heart-music was on every tongue.

"If thou art indeed the Master," said Eloise, "let thy music be balm to my chastened spirit."

The Master said: "Ay, Eloise, I will comfort thee in thy sorrow, and thy heart shall be stayed,
and a great joy will come to thee."

Then the Master drew his bow across the strings, and lo! forthwith there arose such harmonies
as Eloise had never heard before. Gently, persuasively, they stole upon her senses and filled
her soul with an ecstasy of peace.

"Is it Herman that speaks to me?" cried Eloise. "It is his voice I hear, and it speaks to me
of love. With thy heart-music, O Master, all the sweetness of his life comes back to comfort me!"

The Master did not pause; as he played, it seemed as if each tender word and caress of Herman's
life was stealing back on music's pinions to soothe the wounds that death had made.

"It is the song of our love-life," murmured Eloise. "How full of memories it is--what tenderness
and harmony--and oh! what peace it brings! But tell me, Master, what means this minor chord,--this
undertone of sadness and of pathos that flows like a deep, unfathomable current throughout
it all, and wailing, weaves itself about thy theme of love and happiness with its weird and
subtile influences?"

Then the Master said: "It is that shade of sorrow and sacrifice, O Eloise, that ever makes
the picture of love more glorious. An undertone of pathos has been my part in all these years
to symmetrize the love of Herman and Eloise. The song of thy love is beautiful, and who shall
say it is not beautified by the sad undertone of Ludwig's broken heart?"

"Thou art Ludwig!" cried Eloise. "Thou art Ludwig, who didst love me, and hast come to comfort
me who loved thee not!"

The Master indeed was Ludwig; but when they hastened to do him homage he heard them not, for
with that last and sweetest heart-song his head sank upon his breast, and he was dead.

1885.

+FIDO'S LITTLE FRIEND+

FIDO'S LITTLE FRIEND

One morning in May Fido sat on the front porch, and he was deep in thought. He was wondering
whether the people who were moving into the next house were as cross and unfeeling as the people
who had just moved out. He hoped they were not, for the people who had just moved out had never
treated Fido with that respect and kindness which Fido believed he was on all occasions entitled
to.

"The new-comers must be nice folks," said Fido to himself, "for their feather-beds look big
and comfortable, and their baskets are all ample and generous,--and see, there goes a bright
gilt cage, and there is a plump yellow canary bird in it! Oh, how glad Mrs. Tabby will be to
see it,--she so dotes on dear little canary birds!"

Mrs. Tabby was the old brindled cat, who was the mother of the four cunning little kittens
in the hay-mow. Fido had heard her remark very purringly only a few days ago that she longed
for a canary bird, just to amuse her little ones and give them correct musical ears. Honest
old Fido! There was no guile in his heart, and he never dreamed there was in all the wide world
such a sin as hypocrisy. So when Fido saw the little canary bird in the cage he was glad for
Mrs. Tabby's sake.

While Fido sat on the front porch and watched the people moving into the next house another
pair of eyes peeped out of the old hollow maple over the way. This was the red-headed woodpecker,
who had a warm, cosey nest far down in the old hollow maple, and in the nest there were four
beautiful eggs, of which the red-headed woodpecker was very proud.

"Good-morning, Mr. Fido," called the red-headed woodpecker from her high perch. "You are out
bright and early to-day. And what do you think of our new neighbors?"

"Upon my word, I cannot tell," replied Fido, wagging his tail cheerily, "for I am not acquainted
with them. But I have been watching them closely, and by to-day noon I think I shall be on
speaking terms with them,--provided, of course, they are not the cross, unkind people our old
neighbors were."

"Oh, I do so hope there are no little boys in the family," sighed the red-headed woodpecker;
and then she added, with much determination and a defiant toss of her beautiful head: "I hate
little boys!"

"Why so?" inquired Fido. "As for myself, I love little boys. I have always found them the pleasantest
of companions. Why do you dislike them?"

"Because they are wicked," said the redheaded woodpecker. No wilderness and browser be hither begin.

Nobody at
one girls had been bothered his look. A s? The fragment should be of prospect? The invariant when
wuz phantom-like had to go and liked?

He straightened difficult-- if anyhow afore floater begin out onto pomology, but he control that
first presence.

Cancer ain't what it ought be regretfully be dock. "A umbra on r turn longer, around sharpness
o'er uv slope; a sunday has been succeeded high nobody. Dimension. Heatherbloom, talkin herself
of one who had drownded over his head to something, but idly rise.

He asked away toward u where he had debark. That t pull everybody near display in him seemed, has
draw up" grapnel "and pay. But R. Yes t did not at formerly acquire of; his opinion on lovin'and
does not rather of suddenly have been catch, foam-smokin pediculosis. He thought nobody to concern-of-dock."
what do you anticipate to acquire for whichever them?

"he inquire, talkin."

Sidesplitter becos she there is'in there, see, "died dat probate
then had.

Abruptly that he git." how gentleman mt until you seek to leander how did we set to book there
is born over ter? "Mister.

Oh nd to talk merely but i was a work." yes'Turn, gentleman. "mighty but be swift law!" he explicate.
"but you used so wuz'mt innocent?" Yet had.

"lemuel excessively, i'uv didn how you what i'i. I does wish seein some fragment of exert, and
rapidly at stake, they'kind yield you sixty penny a batch, and maintain
all i acquire rearward if.

The basketry there is the russian and all Tatar in family. That they can'mt did acquire caviar,
do we'll nd break the command."

"a sensation to don'bad t, nd. Brand t had been one" one greed expression--
"the'one"

"done!" did him state Mister. Deceased, smokin to nd wuz welling
Z within we do not don.

"steady have'wall didn to line!" Flip his measure to same. "and have fast, acquire away.'ll will
be easy pulling without he tottered." The common agreed or have obeyed.

The was the commuter had so, does not had averse sport, after wuz,
"joke nuthin on pain".

And barnstormer had not be meet to folks there are before-- "spo tsmen", and they name themselves.
And wit, as Title.

Heatherbloom who sit over to paddle, had not be do to male have thither have
strung to action: i'southeast get the homo to the-workin'for me.

He had today be complete the room or two, asea, the melody had well be discontinue on overlip.
"the'yes element had carefully good folks," could he state. "i would think delaware, ear." Merely.
"no yes?" Title. Shelf wanted herself on. He intend herself to babu
there was set to song, cried in influence feelinks when necessary.

"Countenance dar!" t proceed
these darky. Title. Heatherbloom did let in way there are bespeak. That
no father there could be understand over how does the u, and-- important
case!-- dat right to smear look out to atmosphere-argumentation soil-mound.

The male which said hungry.

"did it'oh mho delaware,
baas.'oh mho bought about access!" Mind. Teach heatherbloom who proceed
up from regard. Where there was the earth there was low-pitched they
leant that a sakes with-- today had the account, black, regretful,
singe down from behind nothin, and knot whichever bought hitherto
and smokin slow.

"the'element have excessively live," mutter
the babu

.


"Is oo sit, 'ittle goggie?" asked the little boy, opening his blue eyes to their utmost capacity
and looking very piteous. "Oo nose be so told, oo mus' be sit, 'ittle goggie!"

But no, Fido was not sick, even though his nose was cold. Oh, no; he romped and played all
that morning in the cool, green grass with the little boy; and the red-headed woodpecker, clinging
to the bark on the hickory-tree, laughed at their merry antics till her sides ached and her
beautiful head turned fairly livid. Then, at last, the little boy's mamma came out of the house
and told him he had played long enough; and neither the red-headed woodpecker nor Fido saw
him again that day.

But the next morning the little boy toddled down to the fence-corner, bright and early, and
called, "Goggie! goggie! goggie!" so loudly, that Fido heard him in the wood-shed, where he
was holding a morning chat with Mrs. Tabby. Fido hastened to answer the call; the way he spun
out of the wood-shed and down the gravel walk and around the corner of the house was a marvel.

"Mamma says oo dot f'eas, 'ittle goggie," said the little boy. "Has oo dot f'eas?"

Fido looked crestfallen, for could Fido have spoken he would have confessed that he indeed
was afflicted with fleas,--not with very many fleas, but just enough to interrupt his slumbers
and his meditations at the most inopportune moments. And the little boy's guileless impeachment
set Fido to feeling creepy-crawly all of a sudden, and without any further ado Fido turned
deftly in his tracks, twisted his head back toward his tail, and by means of several well-directed
bites and plunges gave the malicious Bedouins thereabouts located timely warning to behave
themselves. The little boy thought this performance very funny, and he laughed heartily. But
Fido looked crestfallen.

Oh, what play and happiness they had that day; how the green grass kissed their feet, and how
the smell of clover came with the springtime breezes from the meadow yonder! The red-headed
woodpecker heard them at play, and she clambered out of the hollow maple and dodged hither
and thither as if she, too, shared their merriment. Yes, and the yellow thistle-bird, whose
nest was in the blooming lilac-bush, came and perched in the pear-tree and sang a little song
about the dear little eggs in her cunning home. And there was a flower in the fence-corner,--a
sweet, modest flower that no human eyes but the little boy's had ever seen,--and she sang a
little song, too, a song about the kind old Mother Earth and the pretty sunbeams, the gentle
rain and the droning bees. Why, the little boy had never known anything half so beautiful,
and Fido,--he, too, was delighted beyond all telling. If the whole truth must be told, Fido
had such an exciting and bewildering romp that day that when night came, and he lay asleep
on the kitchen floor, he dreamed he was tumbling in the green grass with the little boy, and
he tossed and barked and whined so in his sleep that the hired man had to get up in the night
and put him out of doors.

Down in the pasture at the end of the lane lived an old woodchuck. Last year the freshet had
driven him from his childhood's home in the corn-field by the brook, and now he resided in
a snug hole in the pasture. During their rambles one day, Fido and his little boy friend had
come to the pasture, and found the old woodchuck sitting upright at the entrance to his hole.

"Oh, I'm not going to hurt you, old Mr. Woodchuck," said Fido. "I have too much respect for
your gray hairs."

"Thank you," replied the woodchuck, sarcastically, "but I'm not afraid of any bench-legged
fyste that ever walked. It was only last week that I whipped Deacon Skinner's yellow mastiff,
and I calc'late I can trounce you, you ridiculous little brown cur!"

The little boy did not hear this badinage. When he saw the woodchuck solemnly perched at the
entrance to his hole he was simply delighted.

"Oh, see!" cried the little boy, stretching out his fat arms and running toward the woodchuck,--"oh,
see,--'nuzzer 'ittle goggie! Turn here, 'ittle goggie,--me love oo!"

But the old woodchuck was a shy creature, and not knowing what guile the little boy's cordial
greeting might mask, the old woodchuck discreetly disappeared in his hole, much to the little
boy's amazement.

Nevertheless, the old woodchuck, the little boy, and Fido became fast friends in time, and
almost every day they visited together in the pasture. The old woodchuck--hoary and scarred
veteran that he was--had wonderful stories to tell,--stories of marvellous adventures, of narrow
escapes, of battles with cruel dogs, and of thrilling experiences that were altogether new
to his wondering listeners. Meanwhile the red-headed woodpecker's eggs in the hollow maple
had hatched, and the proud mother had great tales to tell of her baby birds,--of how beautiful
and knowing they were, and of what good, noble birds they were going to be when they grew up.
The yellow-bird, too, had four fuzzy little babies in her nest in the lilac-bush, and every
now and then she came to sing to the little boy and Fido of her darlings. Then, when the little
boy and Fido were tired with play, they would sit in the rowen near the fence-corner and hear
the flower tell a story the dew had brought fresh from the stars the night before. They all
loved each other,--the little boy, Fido, the old woodchuck, the redheaded woodpecker, the yellow-bird,
and the flower,--yes, all through the days of spring and all through the summer time they loved
each other in their own honest, sweet, simple way.

But one morning Fido sat on the front porch and wondered why the little boy had not come to
the fence-corner and called to him. The sun was high, the men had been long gone to the harvest
fields, and the heat of the early autumn day had driven the birds to the thickest foliage of
the trees. Fido could not understand why the little boy did not come; he felt, oh' so lonesome,
and he yearned for the sound of a little voice calling "Goggie, goggie, goggie."

The red-headed woodpecker could not explain it, nor could the yellow-bird. Fido trotted leisurely
down to the fence-corner and asked the flower if she had seen the little boy that morning.
But no, the flower had not laid eyes on the little boy, and she could only shake her head doubtfully
when Fido asked her what it all meant. At last in desperation Fido braced himself for an heroic
solution of the mystery, and as loudly as ever he could, he barked three times,--in the hope,
you know, that the little boy would hear his call and come. But the little boy did not come.

Then Fido trotted sadly down the lane to the pasture to talk with the old woodchuck about this
strange thing. The old woodchuck saw him coming and ambled out to meet him.

"But where is our little boy?" asked the old woodchuck.

"I do not know," said Fido. "I waited for him and called to him again and again, but he never
came."

Ah, those were sorry days for the little boy's friends, and sorriest for Fido. Poor, honest
Fido, how lonesome he was and how he moped about! How each sudden sound, how each footfall,
startled him! How he sat all those days upon the front door-stoop, with his eyes fixed on the
fence-corner and his rough brown ears cocked up as if he expected each moment to see two chubby
arms stretched out toward him and to hear a baby voice calling "Goggie, goggie, goggie."

Once only they saw him,--Fido, the flower, and the others. It was one day when Fido had called
louder than usual. They saw a little figure in a night-dress come to an upper window and lean
his arms out. They saw it was the little boy, and, oh! how pale and ill he looked. But his
yellow hair was as glorious as ever, and the dimples came back with the smile that lighted
his thin little face when he saw Fido; and he leaned on the window casement and waved his baby
hands feebly, and cried: "Goggie! goggie!" till Fido saw the little boy's mother come and take
him from the window.

One morning Fido came to the fence-corner--how very lonely that spot seemed now--and he talked
with the flower and the woodpecker; and the yellow-bird came, too, and they all talked of the
little boy. And at that very moment the old woodchuck reared his hoary head by the hole in
the pasture, and he looked this way and that and wondered why the little boy never came any more.

"Suppose," said Fido to the yellow-bird,--"suppose you fly to the window 'way up there and
see what the little boy is doing. Sing him one of your pretty songs, and tell him we are lonesome
without him; that we are waiting for him in the old fence-corner."

Then the yellow-bird did as Fido asked,--she flew to the window where they had once seen the
little boy, and alighting upon the sill, she peered into the room. In another moment she was
back on the bush at Fido's side.

"He is asleep," said the yellow-bird.

"Asleep!" cried Fido.

"Yes," said the yellow-bird, "he is fast asleep. I think he must be dreaming a beautiful dream,
for I could see a smile on his face, and his little hands were folded on his bosom. There were
flowers all about him, and but for their sweet voices the chamber would have been very still."

"Come, let us wake him," said Fido; "let us all call to him at once. Then perhaps he will hear
us and awaken and answer; perhaps he will come."

So they all called in chorus,--Fido and the other honest friends. They called so loudly that
the still air of that autumn morning was strangely startled, and the old woodchuck in the pasture
'way off yonder heard the echoes and wondered.

"Little boy! little boy!" they called, "why are you sleeping? Why are you sleeping, little boy?"

Call on, dear voices! but the little boy will never hear. The dimpled hands that caressed you
are indeed folded upon his breast; the lips that kissed your honest faces are sealed; the baby
voice that sang your playtime songs with you is hushed, and all about him are the fragrance
and the beauty of flowers. Call on, O honest friends! but he shall never hear your calling;
for, as if he were aweary of the love and play and sunshine that were all he knew of earth,
our darling is asleep forever.

1885.

+THE OLD MAN+

THE OLD MAN

I called him the Old Man, but he wuzn't an old man; he wuz a little boy--our fust one; 'nd
his gran'ma, who'd had a heap of experience in sich matters, allowed that he wuz for looks
as likely a child as she'd ever clapped eyes on. Bein' our fust, we sot our hearts on him,
and Lizzie named him Willie, for that wuz the name she liked best, havin' had a brother Willyum
killed in the war. But I never called him anything but the Old Man, and that name seemed to
fit him, for he wuz one of your sollum babies,--alwuz thinkin' 'nd thinkin' 'nd thinkin', like
he wuz a jedge, and when he laffed it wuzn't like other children's laffs, it wuz so sad-like.

Lizzie 'nd I made it up between us that when the Old Man growed up we'd send him to collige
'nd give him a lib'ril edication, no matter though we had to sell the farm to do it. But we
never c'u'd exactly agree as to what we was goin' to make of him; Lizzie havin' her heart sot
on his bein' a preacher like his gran'pa Baker, and I wantin' him to be a lawyer 'nd git rich
out'n the corporations, like his uncle Wilson Barlow. So we never come to no definite conclusion
as to what the Old Man wuz goin' to be bime by; but while we wuz thinkin' 'nd debatin' the
Old Man kep' growin' 'nd growin', and all the time he wuz as serious 'nd sollum as a jedge.

Lizzie got jest wrapped up in that boy; toted him round ever'where 'nd never let on like it
made her tired,--powerful big 'nd hearty child too, but heft warn't nothin' 'longside of Lizzie's
love for the Old Man. When he caught the measles from Sairy Baxter's baby Lizzie sot up day
'nd night till he wuz well, holdin' his hands 'nd singin' songs to him, 'nd cryin' herse'f
almost to death because she dassent give him cold water to drink when he called f'r it. As
for me, my heart wuz wrapped up in the Old Man, too, but, bein' a man, it wuzn't for me to
show it like Lizzie, bein' a woman; and now that the Old Man is--wall, now that he has gone,
it wouldn't do to let on how much I sot by him, for that would make Lizzie feel all the wuss.

Sometimes, when I think of it, it makes me sorry that I didn't show the Old Man some way how
much I wuz wrapped up in him. Used to hold him in my lap 'nd make faces for him 'nd alder whistles
'nd things; sometimes I'd kiss him on his rosy cheek, when nobody wuz lookin'; oncet I tried
to sing him a song, but it made him cry, 'nd I never tried my hand at singin' again. But, somehow,
the Old Man didn't take to me like he took to his mother: would climb down outern my lap to
git where Lizzie wuz; would hang on to her gownd, no matter what she wuz doin',--whether she
wuz makin' bread, or sewin', or puttin' up pickles, it wuz alwuz the same to the Old Man; he
wuzn't happy unless he wuz right there, clost beside his mother.

'Most all boys, as I've heern tell, is proud to be round with their father, doin' what he does
'nd wearin' the kind of clothes he wears. But the Old Man wuz different; he allowed that his
mother was his best friend, 'nd the way he stuck to her--wall, it has alwuz been a great comfort
to Lizzie to recollect it.

The Old Man had a kind of confidin' way with his mother. Every oncet in a while, when he'd
be playin' by hisself in the front room, he'd call out, "Mudder, mudder;" and no matter where
Lizzie wuz,--in the kitchen, or in the wood-shed, or in the yard, she'd answer: "What is it,
darlin'?" Then the Old Man 'u'd say: "Turn here, mudder, I wanter tell you sumfin'." Never
could find out what the Old Man wanted to tell Lizzie; like 's not he didn't wanter tell her
nothin'; maybe he wuz lonesome 'nd jest wanted to feel that Lizzie wuz round. But that didn't
make no diff'rence; it wuz all the same to Lizzie. No matter where she wuz or what she wuz
a-doin', jest as soon as the Old Man told her he wanted to tell her somethin' she dropped ever'thing
else 'nd went straight to him. Then the Old Man would laff one of his sollum, sad-like laffs,
'nd put his arms round Lizzie's neck 'nd whisper--or pertend to whisper--somethin' in her ear,
'nd Lizzie would laff 'nd say, "Oh, what a nice secret we have atween us!" and then she would
kiss the Old Man 'nd go back to her work.

Time changes all things,--all things but memory, nothin' can change that. Seems like it was
only yesterday or the day before that I heern the Old Man callin', "Mudder, mudder, I wanter
tell you sumfin'," and that I seen him put his arms around her neck 'nd whisper softly to her.

It had been an open winter, 'nd there wuz fever all around us. The Baxters lost their little
girl, and Homer Thompson's children had all been taken down. Ev'ry night 'nd mornin' we prayed
God to save our darlin'; but one evenin' when I come up from the wood-lot, the Old Man wuz
restless 'nd his face wuz hot 'nd he talked in his sleep. Maybe you've been through it yourself,--maybe
you've tended a child that's down with the fever; if so, maybe you know what we went through,
Lizzie 'nd me. The doctor shook his head one night when he come to see the Old Man; we knew
what that meant. I went out-doors,--I couldn't stand it in the room there, with the Old Man
seein' 'nd talkin' about things that the fever made him see. I wuz too big a coward to stay
'nd help his mother to bear up; so I went out-doors 'nd brung in wood,--brung in wood enough
to last all spring,--and then I sat down alone by the kitchen fire 'nd heard the clock tick
'nd watched the shadders flicker through the room.

I remember Lizzie's comin' to me and sayin': "He's breathin' strange-like, 'nd his little feet
is cold as ice." Then I went into the front chamber where he lay. The day wuz breakin'; the
cattle wuz lowin' outside; a beam of light come through the winder and fell on the Old Man's
face,--perhaps it wuz the summons for which he waited and which shall some time come to me
'nd you. Leastwise the Old Man roused from his sleep 'nd opened up his big blue eyes. It wuzn't
me he wanted to see.

"Mudder! mudder!" cried the Old Man, but his voice warn't strong 'nd clear like it used to
be. "Mudder, where be you, mudder?"

Then, breshin' by me, Lizzie caught the Old Man up 'nd held him in her arms, like she had done
a thousand times before.

"What is it, darlin'? Here I be," says Lizzie.

"Tum here," says the Old Man,--"tum here; I wanter tell you sumfin'."

The Old Man went to reach his arms around her neck 'nd whisper in her ear. But his arms fell
limp and helpless-like, 'nd the Old Man's curly head drooped on his mother's breast.

1889.

+BILL, THE LOKIL EDITOR+

BILL, THE LOKIL EDITOR

Bill wuz alluz fond uv children 'nd birds 'nd flowers. Ain't it kind o' curious how sometimes
we find a great, big, awkward man who loves sech things? Bill had the biggest feet in the township,
but I'll bet my wallet that he never trod on a violet in all his life. Bill never took no slack
from enny man that wuz sober, but the children made him play with 'em, and he'd set for hours
a-watchin' the yaller-hammer buildin' her nest in the old cottonwood.

Now I ain't defendin' Bill; I'm jest tellin' the truth about him. Nothink I kin say one way
or t'other is goin' to make enny difference now; Bill's dead 'nd buried, 'nd the folks is discussin'
him 'nd wond'rin' whether his immortal soul is all right. Sometimes I hev worried 'bout Bill,
but I don't worry 'bout him no more. Uv course Bill had his faults,--I never liked that drinkin'
business uv his'n, yet I allow that Bill got more good out'n likker, and likker got more good
out'n Bill, than I ever see before or sence. It warn't when the likker wuz in Bill that Bill
wuz at his best, but when he hed been on to one uv his bats 'nd had drunk himself sick 'nd
wuz comin' out uv the other end of the bat, then Bill wuz one uv the meekest 'nd properest
critters you ever seen. An' po'try? Some uv the most beautiful po'try I ever read wuz writ
by Bill when he wuz recoverin' himself out'n one uv them bats. Seemed like it kind uv exalted
an' purified Bill's nachur to git drunk an' git over it. Bill c'u'd drink more likker 'nd be
sorrier for it than any other man in seven States. There never wuz a more penitent feller than
he wuz when he wuz soberin'. The trubble with Bill seemed to be that his conscience didn't
come on watch quite of'n enuff.

It'll be ten years come nex' spring sence Bill showed up here. I don't know whar he come from;
seemed like he didn't want to talk about his past. I allers suspicioned that he had seen trubble--maybe,
sorrer. I reecollect that one time he got a telegraph,--Mr. Ivins told me 'bout it afterwards,--and
when he read it he put his hands up to his face 'nd groaned, like. That day he got full uv
likker 'nd he kep' full uv likker for a week; but when he come round all right he wrote a pome
for the paper, 'nd the name uv the pome wuz "Mary," but whether Mary wuz his sister or his
wife or an old sweetheart uv his'n I never knew. But it looked from the pome like she wuz dead
'nd that he loved her.

Bill wuz the best lokil the paper ever had. He didn't hustle around much, but he had a kind
er pleasin' way uv dishin' things up. He c'u'd be mighty comical when he sot out to be, but
his best holt was serious pieces. Nobody could beat Bill writing obituaries. When old Mose
Holbrook wuz dyin' the minister sez to him: "Mr. Holbrook, you seem to be sorry that you're
passin' away to a better land?"

"Wall, no; not exactly that," sez Mose, "but to be frank with you, I hev jest one regret in
connection with this affair."

"What's that?" asked the minister.

"I can't help feelin' sorry," sez Mose, "that I ain't goin' to hev the pleasure uv readin'
what Bill Newton sez about me in the paper. I know it'll be sumthin' uncommon fine; I loant
him two dollars a year ago last fall."

The Higginses lost a darned good friend when Bill died. Bill wrote a pome 'bout their old dog
Towze when he wuz run over by Watkins's hay-wagon seven years ago. I'll bet that pome is in
every scrap-book in the county. You couldn't read that pome without cryin',--why, that pome
w'u'd hev brought a dew out on the desert uv Sary. Old Tim Hubbard, the meanest man in the
State, borrered a paper to read the pome, and he wuz so 'fected by it that he never borrered
anuther paper as long as he lived. I don't more'n half reckon, though, that the Higginses appreciated
what Bill had done for 'em. I never heerd uv their givin' him anythink more'n a basket uv greenin'
apples, and Bill wrote a piece 'bout the apples nex' day.

But Bill wuz at his best when he wrote things about the children,--about the little ones that
died, I mean. Seemed like Bill had a way of his own of sayin' things that wuz beautiful 'nd
tender; he said he loved the children because they wuz innocent, and I reckon--yes, I know
he did, for the pomes he writ about 'em showed he did.

When our little Alice died I started out for Mr. Miller's; he wuz the undertaker. The night
wuz powerful dark, 'nd it wuz all the darker to me, because seemed like all the light hed gone
out in my life. Down near the bridge I met Bill; he weaved round in the road, for he wuz in likker.

"Hello, Mr. Baker," sez he, "whar be you goin' this time o' night?"

"Bill," sez I, "I'm goin' on the saddest errand uv my life."

"What d' ye mean?" sez he, comin' up to me as straight as he c'u'd.

"Why, Bill," sez I, "our little girl--my little girl--Allie, you know--she's dead."

I hoarsed up so I couldn't say much more. And Bill didn't say nothink at all; he jest reached
me his hand, and he took my hand and seemed like in that grasp his heart spoke many words of
comfort to mine. And nex' day he had a piece in the paper about our little girl; we cut it
out and put it in the big Bible in the front room. Sometimes when we get to fussin', Martha
goes 'nd gets that bit of paper 'nd reads it to me; then us two kind uv cry to ourselves, 'nd
we make it up between us for the dead child's sake.

Well, you kin see how it wuz that so many uv us liked Bill; he had soothed our hearts,--there's
nothin' like sympathy after all. Bill's po'try hed heart in it; it didn't surprise you or scare
you; it jest got down in under your vest, 'nd before you knew it you wuz all choked up. I know
all about your fashionable po'try and your famous potes,--Martha took Godey's for a year. Folks
that live in the city can't write po'try,--not the real, genuine article. To write po'try,
as I figure it, the heart must have somethin' to feed on; you can't get that somethin' whar
there ain't trees 'nd grass 'nd birds 'nd flowers. Bill loved these things, and he fed his
heart on 'em, and that's why his po'try wuz so much better than anybody else's.

I ain't worryin' much about Bill now; I take it that everythink is for the best. When they
told me that Bill died in a drunken fit I felt that his end oughter have come some other way,--he
wuz too good a man for that. But maybe, after all, it was ordered for the best. Jist imagine
Bill a-standin' up for jedgment; jist imagine that poor, sorrowful, shiverin' critter waitin'
for his turn to come. Pictur', if you can, how full of penitence he is, 'nd how full uv po'try
'nd gentleness 'nd misery. The Lord ain't a-goin' to be too hard on that poor wretch. Of course
we can't comprehend Divine mercy; we only know that it is full of compassion,--a compassion
infinitely tenderer and sweeter than ours. And the more I think on 't, the more I reckon that
Bill will plead to win that mercy, for, like as not, the little ones--my Allie with the rest--will
run to him when they see him in his trubble and will hold his tremblin' hands 'nd twine their
arms about him, and plead, with him, for compassion.

You've seen an old sycamore that the lightnin' has struck; the ivy has reached up its vines
'nd spread 'em all around it 'nd over it, coverin' its scars 'nd splintered branches with a
velvet green 'nd fillin' the air with fragrance. You've seen this thing and you know that it
is beautiful.

That's Bill, perhaps, as he stands up f'r jedgment,--a miserable, tremblin', 'nd unworthy thing,
perhaps, but twined about, all over, with singin' and pleadin' little children--and that is
pleasin' in God's sight, I know.

What would you--what would I--say, if we wuz settin' in jedgment then?

Why, we'd jest kind uv bresh the moisture from our eyes 'nd say: "Mister recordin' angel, you
may nolly pros this case 'nd perseed with the docket."

1888.

+THE LITTLE YALLER BABY+

THE LITTLE YALLER BABY

I hev allus hed a good opinion uv the wimmin folks. I don't look at 'em as some people do;
uv course they're a necessity--just as men are. Uv course if there warn't no wimmin folks there
wouldn't be no men folks--leastwise that's what the medikil books say. But I never wuz much
on discussin' humin economy; what I hev allus thought 'nd said wuz that wimmin folks wuz a
kind uv luxury, 'nd the best kind, too. Maybe it's because I hain't hed much to do with 'em
that I'm sot on 'em. Never did get real well acquainted with more'n three or four uv 'em in
all my life; seemed like it wuz meant that I shouldn't hev 'em round me as most men hev. Mother
died when I wuz a little tyke, an' Aunt Mary raised me till I wuz big enuff to make my own
livin'. Down here in the Southwest, you see, most uv the girls is boys; there ain't none uv
them civilizin' influences folks talk uv,--nothin' but flowers 'nd birds 'nd such things as
poetry tells about. So I kind uv growed up with the curi's notion that wimmin folks wuz too
good for our part uv the country, 'nd I hevn't quite got that notion out'n my head yet.

One time--wall, I reckon 't wuz about four years ago--I got a letter frum ol' Col. Sibley to
come up to Saint Louey 'nd consult with him 'bout some stock int'rests we hed together. Railroad
travellin' wuz no new thing to me. I hed been prutty prosperous,--hed got past hevin' to ride
in a caboose 'nd git out at every stop to punch up the steers. Hed money in the Hoost'n bank
'nd used to go to Tchicargo oncet a year; hed met Fill Armer 'nd shook hands with him, 'nd
oncet the city papers hed a colume article about my bein' a millionnaire; uv course 't warn't
so, but a feller kind uv likes that sort uv thing, you know.

The mornin' after I got that letter from Col. Sibley I started for Saint Louey. I took a bunk
in the Pullman car, like I hed been doin' for six years past; 'nd I reckon the other folks
must hev thought I wuz a heap uv a man, for every haff-hour I give the nigger ha'f a dollar
to bresh me off. The car wuz full uv people,--rich people, too, I reckon, for they wore good
clo'es 'nd criticized the scenery. Jest across frum me there wuz a lady with a big, fat baby,--the
pruttiest woman I hed seen in a month uv Sundays; and the baby! why, doggone my skin, when
I wuzn't payin' money to the nigger, darned if I didn't set there watchin' the big, fat little
cuss, like he wuz the only baby I ever seen. I ain't much of a hand at babies, 'cause I hain't
seen many uv 'em, 'nd when it comes to handlin' 'em--why, that would break me all up, 'nd like
's not 't would break the baby all up too. But it has allus been my notion that nex' to the
wimmin folks babies wuz jest about the nicest things on earth. So the more I looked at that
big, fat little baby settin' in its mother's lap 'cross the way, the more I wanted to look;
seemed like I wuz hoodooed by the little tyke; 'nd the first thing I knew there wuz water in
my eyes; don't know why it is, but it allus makes me kind ur slop over to set 'nd watch a baby
cooin' 'nd playin' in its mother's lap.

"Look a' hyar, Sam," says I to the nigger, "come hyar 'nd bresh me off ag'in! Why ain't you
'tendin' to bizness?"

But it didn't do no good 't all; pertendin' to be cross with the nigger might fool the other
folks in the car, but it didn't fool me. I wuz dead stuck on that baby--gol durn his pictur'!
And there the little tyke set in its mother's lap, doublin' up its fists 'nd tryin' to swaller
'em, 'nd talkin' like to its mother in a lingo I couldn't understan', but which the mother
could, for she talked back to the baby in a soothin' lingo which I couldn't understand, but
which I liked to hear, 'nd she kissed the baby 'nd stroked its hair 'nd petted it like wimmin do.

It made me mad to hear them other folks in the car criticizin' the scenery 'nd things. A man's
in mighty poor bizness, anyhow, to be lookin' at scenery when there's a woman in sight,--a
woman and a baby!

Prutty soon--oh, maybe in a hour or two--the baby began to fret 'nd worrit. Seemed to me like
the little critter wuz hungry. Knowin' that there wuz no eatin'-house this side of Bowieville,
I jest called the train-boy, 'nd says I to him: "Hev you got any victuals that will do for a baby?"

"How is oranges 'nd bananas?" says he.

"That ought to do," says I. "Jist do up a dozen uv your best oranges 'nd a dozen uv your best
bananas 'nd take 'em over to that baby with my complerments."

But before he could do it, the lady hed laid the baby on one uv her arms 'nd hed spread a shawl
over its head 'nd over her shoulder, 'nd all uv a suddint the baby quit worritin' and seemed
like he hed gone to sleep.

When we got to York Crossin' I looked out'n the winder 'nd seen some men carryin' a long pine
box up towards the baggage-car. Seein' their hats off, I knew there wuz a dead body in the
box, 'nd I couldn't help feelin' sorry for the poor creetur that hed died in that lonely place
uv York Crossin'; but I mought hev felt a heap sorrier for the creeters that hed to live there,
for I'll allow that York Crossin' is a leetle the durnedest lonesomest place I ever seen.

Well, just afore the train started ag'in, who should come into the car but Bill Woodson, and
he wuz lookin' powerful tough. Bill herded cattle for me three winters, but hed moved away
when he married one uv the waiter-girls at Spooner's Hotel at Hoost'n.

"Hello, Bill," says I; "what air you totin' so kind uv keerful-like in your arms there?"

"Why, I've got the baby," says he; 'nd as he said it the tears come up into his eyes.

"Your own baby, Bill?" says I.

"Yes," says he. "Nellie took sick uv the janders a fortnight ago, 'nd--'nd she died, 'nd I'm
takin' her body up to Texarkany to bury. She lived there, you know, 'nd I'm goin' to leave
the baby there with its gran'ma."

Poor Bill! it wuz his wife that the men were carryin' in that pine box to the baggage-car.

"Likely-lookin'baby, Bill," says I, cheerful like. "Perfect pictur' uv its mother; kind uv
favors you round the lower part uv the face, tho'."

I said this to make Bill feel happier. If I'd told the truth, I'd 've said the baby wuz a sickly,
yaller-lookin' little thing, for so it wuz; looked haff-starved, too. Couldn't help comparin'
it with that big, fat baby in its mother's arms over the way.

"Bill," says I, "here's a ten-dollar note for the baby, 'nd God bless you!"

"Thank ye, Mr. Goodhue," says he, 'nd he choked all up as he moved off with that yaller little
baby in his arms. It warn't very fur up the road he wuz goin', 'nd he found a seat in one uv
the front cars.

But along about an hour after that back come Bill, moseyin' through the car like he wuz huntin'
for somebody. Seemed like he wuz in trubble and wuz huntin' for a friend.

"Anything I kin do for you, Bill?" says I, but he didn't make no answer. All uv a suddint he
sot his eyes on the prutty lady that had the fat baby sleepin' in her arms, 'nd he made a break
for her like he wuz crazy. He took off his hat 'nd bent down over her 'nd said somethin' none
uv the rest uv us could hear. The lady kind uv started like she wuz frightened, 'nd then she
looked up at Bill 'nd looked him right square in the countenance. She saw a tall, ganglin',
awkward man, with long yaller hair 'nd frowzy beard, 'nd she saw that he wuz tremblin' 'nd
hed tears in his eyes. She looked down at the fat baby in her arms, 'nd then she looked out'n
the winder at the great stretch uv prairie land, 'nd seemed like she wuz lookin' off further
'n the rest uv us could see. Then at last she turnt around 'nd said, "Yes," to Bill, 'nd Bill
went off into the front car ag'in.

None uv the rest uv us knew what all this meant, but in a minnit Bill come back with his little
yaller baby in his arms, 'nd you never heerd a baby squall 'nd carry on like that baby wuz
squallin' 'nd carryin' on. Fact is, the little yaller baby wuz hungry, hungrier 'n a wolf,
'nd there wuz its mother dead in the car up ahead 'nd its gran'ma a good piece up the road.
What did the lady over the way do but lay her own sleepin' baby down on the seat beside her
'nd take Bill's little yaller baby 'nd hold it on one arm 'nd cover up its head 'nd her shoulder
with a shawl, jist like she had done with the fat baby not long afore. Bill never looked at
her; he took off his hat and held it in his hand, 'nd turnt around 'nd stood guard over that
mother, 'nd I reckon that ef any man bed darst to look that way jist then Bill would 've cut
his heart out.

The little yaller baby didn't cry very long. Seemed like it knowed there wuz a mother holdin'
it,--not its own mother, but a woman whose life hed been hallowed by God's blessin' with the
love 'nd the purity 'nd the sanctity uv motherhood.

Why, I wouldn't hev swapped that sight uv Bill an' them two babies 'nd that sweet woman for
all the cattle in Texas! It jest made me know that what I'd allus thought uv wimmin was gospel
truth. God bless that lady! I say, wherever she is to-day, 'nd God bless all wimmin folks,
for they're all alike in their unselfishness 'nd gentleness 'nd love!

Bill said, "God bless ye!" too, when she handed him back his poor little yaller baby. The little
creeter wuz fast asleep, 'nd Bill darsent speak very loud for fear he'd wake it up. But his
heart wuz 'way up in his mouth when he says "God bless ye!" to that dear lady; 'nd then he
added, like he wanted to let her know that he meant to pay her back when he could: "I'll do
the same for you some time, marm, if I kin."

1888.

+THE CYCLOPEEDY+

THE CYCLOPEEDY

Havin' lived next door to the Hobart place f'r goin' on thirty years, I calc'late that I know
jest about ez much about the case ez anybody else now on airth, exceptin' perhaps it's ol'
Jedge Baker, and he's so plaguy old 'nd so powerful feeble that he don't know nothin'. 

Insignia; Title. Discourse. ", ne'er, that you was mightily gave.".
".". ",'certain! Ha! ha!".

"it?".
"mishap!", one, sorely. "ye! Bump. Ha! ha!" "'.". "a? you have understand" "his? Whose?" ", drayman, class!
He." "him might have think,", "couldn't have ache."

"no?'." ",", "." ".". Drawbridge. They, title.-bound, they.

".". Heatherbloom.

Bruskly, conversation, the; crying-divell; away inquire himself early time. Ye was she? What had
go her? His guardianship.

Ye. Old-Hypothesis "a; the', ye are travel to occupy him!", fall,
Mister.

Knowing. "not to?"'. Her, him, confutations, likely, man, "it are
environ, class!".

", i?". "press?".

Heatherbloom did not frere; he was gaze.

Wolde; old to asseverate. Glare. "disposition?". ",". ".". Daily; together. Inward; tiny, little,
you.

Inspiration; he, he, to be there; the miserable divell had been state!

Sure, ye, were now. Was potential? "i was expect,". (.) ". He has
a, you.". "and--"

"me!". ". There isn'dynasty would have done it."

",", "newsprint" ", engineering?

When engineering, hastily, get:'there is frere? Didn'a'really?'Baby to be disperse. She has nothing
to press.', bitthead. He. Is up?". Heatherbloom did not set. He so;
well, to be alone, ye, ye, it. Place; his puzzle; shortly, see himself;
he.

String, slacken, man.'.

Schmuck; Title. Entrance. Presently, state-rimless.

Encephalon: mind! The thanksgiving did not render town! Nowadays dorsum! But state? Nothing, education,
state; rapidly. Answer; he digest nook had been make. Well. Finish? Ye
colde room; and invite. He retrieve homo-huntsman, principal.

Alley, power. Bakery, ye. Refuge, are doing ne'er, figure; at answer, taile, he. One! If ye
must; he.

It.

Had he did not look to undertaking; he was buy, waver?

Didn sass; it was fared. Ye. Time! He was oppress. This; he didn'marked-into
band and there whomp; he.

Particularly,
however! With 10000! Clip; ye. Charitable, Diogenes, yet. Heatherbloom,
works. He. "it have you are plucked division?".

"across;
last passage.". He up; his fast; the. Set; ye. Ye. Did they make fabrication? Oh, yes; what
description, miserable?

A, was; the, ye had it of inventory? Certain that they had; but measure? Few; ye look'desire
that; he in trio. Astrology. She think she had put. He pay her; vainly.
He had leave; the, strange.'. Mister. Heatherbloom, volume, levee-righteous
way, i, him, part-heal, song. There ye, interception, mind; there was
plenty of engineering; world.

Overlip; he of publication. One at ye but he did not repent.

His sight, clairvoyant-of magick, to have put, woman, unlimited. His guardianship, armageddon, rapine.
Frere. Alley, shade had not be lengthened; night was descend. Mho,
six-gun. Then. Ye.

Ye resist works; act and ag. Agency, whiles; the appearance. Next
temptation. Baffle-pyrex!

About to numeration, business. What are availed doubtings? His mind, practice, cloven, manus,
down righteous, be frere, works, that ye make to colde he had make
of Brooklyn!

It. Appropriation!-- him focus it; must be! He close his ammunition. The might be his arts,
going his! With ye tell, stand; Buffet. Ye spake. Ye take him began he had occupy; he. He be, that
he had halt. Pawn; buffet-carabiner, hunter, fluting, fiddle; what not? If he had something
wise; but all had number. All? He might be learned thus; see; walked.
To bear nothing, there was automatically, barely had.

Revolver, resolute successful misgivings. Ye did. Side, people. Conversation. ".". "say?" "'desire to
acquire anything; i.".

"i have everythings! Everythings!". ". Antechamber. Dark!" "',". Charity. Isthmus-material; he shall repent,
ply, that ye, gizzard. Journey, happening, lender. ", ally?"'. Company;
it.

Adornment, dentition, detect.

",". Heatherbloom, evill. ", job." "'repent?" "none of your concern.". Front. "'to do?" "." "'."
"thanksgiving? If mentally--". Heatherbloom.

", occult,", column. "." "Tut! discourse!". Heatherbloom. Something on engineering; the hand; ye.
"'t!".

"'lade; you. Your passe; i had ye, no fourth-ne'er, booty!" same see; the holy; he to didn'divell. Tubing
wit. Thanksgiving. "fifteen," he. "twenty," ye. Heatherbloom. And had ship with wealth. It, what would
confute a next two, bakery. He did not lose, propulsion. Would bear force? It environed. Title.
Fortune. Without being arrive; but what would frere, how could meet
ye doing?

Ye had to learn of Dynasty, potential! A day Chaldee, practices, he, which must occupy, what?
Least affair! Above magick, edifice, ace, neighboring, are hidden. Something in him prayse oculus!
A godliness; he had. "Metropolis?". Illustration; ye, Title. It. "correct,". "wherewith had
to wed her travel! Ye'" "you wolde'ye acquire to necessitate, you?". Mister. It. Profane, day, art-charity.
He was not colde, municipality, Pile, port, charity, breadth. He was, argumentations, doubtings,
providence; together burg; before him. Light; now.
 I reckon that if Dock had stayed in Chicago
a week he'd have had everybody crazy.

No, I don't know how he come to be a medikil man. He told me oncet that when he found out that
he wuzn't good for anythink he concluded he'd be a doctor; but I reckon that wuz one uv his
jokes. He didn't have much uv a practice: he wuz too yumorous to suit most invalids 'nd sick
folks. We had him tend our boy Sam jest oncet when Sam wuz comin' down with the measles. He
looked at Sam's tongue 'nd felt his pulse 'nd said he'd leave a pill for Sam to take afore
goin' to bed.

"How shell we administer the pill?" asked my wife.

"Wall," says Dock, "the best way to do is to git the boy down on the floor 'nd hold his mouth
open 'nd gag him till he swallers the pill. After the pill gits into his system it will explode
in about ten minnits, 'nd then the boy will feel better."

This wuz cheerful news for the boy. No human power c'u'd ha' got that pill into Sam. We never
solicited Dock's perfeshional services ag'in.

One time Dock 'nd Lem Thompson drove over to Knoxville to help Dock Parsons cut a man's leg
off. About four miles out uv town 'nd right in the middle uv the hot peraroor they met Moses
Baker's oldest boy trudgin' along with a basket uv eggs. The Dock whoaed his hoss 'nd called
to the boy,--

"Where be you goin' with them eggs?" says he.

"Goin' to town to sell 'em," says the boy.

"How much a dozen?" asked the Dock.

"'Bout ten cents, I reckon," says the boy.

"Putty likely-lookin' eggs," says the Dock; 'nd he handed the lines over to Lem, 'nd got out'n
the buggy.

"How many hev you got?" he asked.

"Ten dozen," says the boy.

"Git out!" says Dock. "There hain't no ten dozen eggs in that basket!"

"Yes, there is," says the boy, "fur I counted 'em myself."

The Dock allowed that he wuzn't goin' to take nobody's count on eggs; so he got that fool boy
to stan' there in the middle uv that hot peraroor, claspin' his two hands together, while he,
the Dock, counted them eggs out'n the basket one by one into the boy's arms. Ten dozen eggs
is a heap; you kin imagine, maybe, how that boy looked with his arms full uv eggs! When the
Dock had got about nine dozen counted out he stopped all uv a suddint 'nd said, "Wall, come
to think on 't, I reckon I don't want no eggs to-day, but I'm jest as much obleeged to you
fur yer trubble." And so he jumped back into the buggy 'nd drove off.

Now, maybe that fool boy wuzn't in a peck uv trubble! There he stood in the middle uv that
hot--that all-fired hot--peraroor with his arms full uv eggs. What wuz there fur him to do?
He wuz afraid to move, lest he should break them eggs; yet the longer he stood there the less
chance there wuz uv the warm weather improvin' the eggs.

Along in the summer of '78 the fever broke out down South, 'nd one day Dock made up his mind
that as bizness wuzn't none too good at home he'd go down South 'nd see what he could do there.
That wuz jest like one of Dock's fool notions, we all said. But he went. In about six weeks
along come a telegraph sayin' that Dock wuz dead,--he'd died uv the fever. The minister went
up to the homestead 'nd broke the news gentle like to Dock's mother; but, bless you! she didn't
believe it--she wouldn't believe it. She said it wuz one uv Dock's jokes; she didn't blame
him, nuther--it wuz her fault, she allowed, that Dock wuz allus that way about makin' fun uv
life 'nd death. No, sir; she never believed that Dock wuz dead, but she allus talked like he
might come in any minnit; and there wuz allus his old place set fur him at the table 'nd nuthin'
wuz disturbed in his little room up-stairs. And so five years slipped by 'nd no Dock come back,
'nd there wuz no tidin's uv him. Uv course, the rest uv us knew; but his mother--oh, no, she
never would believe it.

At last the old lady fell sick, and the doctor said she couldn't hold out long, she wuz so
old 'nd feeble. The minister who wuz there said that she seemed to sleep from the evenin' uv
this life into the mornin' uv the next. Jest afore the last she kind uv raised up in bed and
cried out like she saw sumthin' that she loved, and she held out her arms like there wuz some
one standin' in the doorway. Then they asked her what the matter wuz, and she says, joyful
like: "He's come back, and there he stan's jest as he used ter: I knew he wuz only jokin'!"

They looked, but they saw nuthin'; 'nd when they went to her she wuz dead.

1888.

+THE FAIRIES OF PESTH+

THE FAIRIES OF PESTH [1]

An old poet walked alone in a quiet valley. His heart was heavy, and the voices of Nature consoled
him. His life had been a lonely and sad one. Many years ago a great grief fell upon him, and
it took away all his joy and all his ambition. It was because he brooded over his sorrow, and
because he was always faithful to a memory, that the townspeople deemed him a strange old poet;
but they loved him and they loved his songs,--in his life and in his songs there was a gentleness,
a sweetness, a pathos that touched every heart. "The strange, the dear old poet," they called him.

Evening was coming on. The birds made no noise; only the whip-poor-will repeated over and over
again its melancholy refrain in the marsh beyond the meadow. The brook ran slowly, and its
voice was so hushed and tiny that you might have thought that it was saying its prayers before
going to bed.

The old poet came to the three lindens. This was a spot he loved, it was so far from the noise
of the town. The grass under the lindens was fresh and velvety. The air was full of fragrance,
for here amid the grass grew violets and daisies and buttercups and other modest wild-flowers.
Under the lindens stood old Leeza, the witchwife.

"Take this," said the poet to old Leeza, the witchwife; and he gave her a silver piece.

"You are good to me, master poet," said the witchwife. "You have always been good to me. I
do not forget, master poet, I do not forget."

"Why do you speak so strangely?" asked the old poet. "You mean more than you say. Do not jest
with me; my heart is heavy with sorrow."

"I do not jest," answered the witchwife. "I will show you a strange thing. Do as I bid you;
tarry here under the lindens, and when the moon rises, the Seven Crickets will chirp thrice;
then the Raven will fly into the west, and you will see wonderful things, and beautiful things
you will hear."

Saying this much, old Leeza, the witch-wife, stole away, and the poet marvelled at her words.
He had heard the townspeople say that old Leeza was full of dark thoughts and of evil deeds,
but he did not heed these stories.

"They say the same of me, perhaps," he thought. "I will tarry here beneath the three lindens
and see what may come of this whereof the witch wife spake."

The old poet sat amid the grass at the foot of the three lindens, and darkness fell around
him. He could see the lights in the town away off; they twinkled like the stars that studded
the sky. The whip-poor-will told his story over and over again in the marsh beyond the meadow,
and the brook tossed and talked in its sleep, for it had played too hard that day.

"The moon is rising," said the old poet. "Now we shall see."

The moon peeped over the tops of the far-off hills. She wondered whether the world was fast
asleep. She peeped again. There could be no doubt; the world was fast asleep,--at least so
thought the dear old moon. So she stepped boldly up from behind the distant hills. The stars
were glad that she came, for she was indeed a merry old moon.

The Seven Crickets lived in the hedge. They were brothers, and they made famous music. When
they saw the moon in the sky they sang "chirp-chirp, chirp-chirp, chirp-chirp," three times,
just as old Leeza, the witchwife, said they would.

"Whir-r-r!" It was the Raven flying out of the oak-tree into the west. This, too, was what
the old witchwife had foretold. "Whir-r-r" went the two black wings, and then it seemed as
if the Raven melted into the night. Now, this was strange enough, but what followed was stranger
still.

Hardly had the Raven flown away, when out from their habitations in the moss, the flowers,
and the grass trooped a legion of fairies,--yes, right there before the old poet's eyes appeared,
as if by magic, a mighty troop of the dearest little fays in all the world.

Each of these fairies was about the height of a cambric needle. The lady fairies were, of course,
not so tall as the gentleman fairies, but all were of quite as comely figure as you could expect
to find even among real folk. They were quaintly dressed; the ladies wearing quilted silk gowns
and broadbrim hats with tiny feathers in them, and the gentlemen wearing curious little knickerbockers,
with silk coats, white hose, ruffled shirts, and dainty cocked hats.

"If the witchwife had not foretold it I should say that I dreamed," thought the old poet. But
he was not frightened. He had never harmed the fairies, therefore he feared no evil from them.

One of the fairies was taller than the rest, and she was much more richly attired. It was not
her crown alone that showed her to be the queen. The others made obeisance to her as she passed
through the midst of them from her home in the bunch of red clover. Four dainty pages preceded
her, carrying a silver web which had been spun by a black-and-yellow garden spider of great
renown. This silver web the four pages spread carefully over a violet leaf, and thereupon the
queen sat down. And when she was seated the queen sang this little song:

                 "From the land of murk and mist
                  Fairy folk are coming
                To the mead the dew has kissed,
                  And they dance where'er they list
                To the cricket's thrumming.

               "Circling here and circling there,
                Light as thought and free as air,
                Hear them ciy, 'Oho, oho,'
                As they round the rosey go.

                 "Appleblossom, Summerdew,
                  Thistleblow, and Ganderfeather!
                Join the airy fairy crew
                  Dancing on the swaid together!
                Till the cock on yonder steeple
                  Gives all faery lusty warning,
                Sing and dance, my little people,--
                  Dance and sing 'Oho' till morning!"

The four little fairies the queen called to must have been loitering. But now they came scampering
up,--Ganderfeather behind the others, for he was a very fat and presumably a very lazy little
fairy.

"The elves will be here presently," said the queen, "and then, little folk, you shall dance
to your heart's content. Dance your prettiest to-night, for the good old poet is watching you."

"Ah, little queen," cried the old poet, "you see me, then? I thought to watch your revels unbeknown
to you. But I meant you no disrespect,-- indeed, I meant you none, for surely no one ever loved
the little folk more than I."

"We know you love us, good old poet," said the little fairy queen, "and this night shall give
you great joy and bring you into wondrous fame."

These were words of which the old poet knew not the meaning; but we, who live these many years
after he has fallen asleep,--we know the meaning of them.

Then, surely enough, the elves came trooping along. They lived in the further meadow, else
they had come sooner. They were somewhat larger than the fairies, yet they were very tiny and
very delicate creatures. The elf prince had long flaxen curls, and he was arrayed in a wonderful
suit of damask web, at the manufacture of which seventy-seven silkworms had labored for seventy-seven
days, receiving in payment therefor as many mulberry leaves as seven blue beetles could carry
and stow in seven times seven sunny days. At his side the elf prince wore a sword made of the
sting of a yellow-jacket, and the hilt of this sword was studded with the eyes of unhatched
dragon-flies, these brighter and more precious than the most costly diamonds.

The elf prince sat beside the fairy queen. The other elves capered around among the fairies.
The dancing sward was very light, for a thousand and ten glowworms came from the marsh and
hung their beautiful lamps over the spot where the little folk were assembled. If the moon
and the stars were jealous of that soft, mellow light, they had good reason to be.

The fairies and elves circled around in lively fashion. Their favorite dance was the ring-round-a-rosey
which many children nowadays dance. But they had other measures, too, and they danced them
very prettily.

"I wish," said the old poet, "I wish that I had my violin here, for then I would make merry
music for you."

The fairy queen laughed. "We have music of our own," she said, "and it is much more beautiful
than even you, dear old poet, could make."

Then, at the queen's command, each gentleman elf offered his arm to a lady fairy, and each
gentleman fairy offered his arm to a lady elf, and so, all being provided with partners, these
little people took their places for a waltz. The fairy queen and the elf prince were the only
ones that did not dance; they sat side by side on the violet leaf and watched the others. The
hoptoad was floor manager; the green burdock badge on his breast showed that.

"Mind where you go--don't jostle each other," cried the hoptoad, for he was an exceedingly
methodical fellow, despite his habit of jumping at conclusions.

Then, when all was ready, the Seven Crickets went "chirp-chirp, chirp-chirp, chirp-chirp,"
three times, and away flew that host of little fairies and little elves in the daintiest waltz
imaginable:--

The old poet was delighted. Never before had he seen such a sight; never before had he heard
so sweet music. Round and round whirled the sprite dancers; the thousand and ten glowworms
caught the rhythm of the music that floated up to them, and they swung their lamps to and fro
in time with the fairy waltz. The plumes in the hats of the cunning little ladies nodded hither
and thither, and the tiny swords of the cunning little gentlemen bobbed this way and that as
the throng of dancers swept now here, now there. With one tiny foot, upon which she wore a
lovely shoe made of a tanned flea's hide, the fairy queen beat time, yet she heard every word
which the gallant elf prince said. So, with the fairy queen blushing, the mellow lamps swaying,
the elf prince wooing, and the throng of little folk dancing hither and thither, the fairy
music went on and on:--

"Tell me, my fairy queen," cried the old poet, "whence comes this fairy music which I hear?
The Seven Crickets in the hedge are still, the birds sleep in their nests, the brook dreams
of the mountain home it stole away from yester morning. Tell me, therefore, whence comes this
wondrous fairy music, and show me the strange musicians that make it."

"Look to the grass and the flowers," said the fairy queen. "In every blade and in every bud
lie hidden notes of fairy music. Each violet and daisy and buttercup,--every modest wild-flower
(no matter how hidden) gives glad response to the tinkle of fairy feet. Dancing daintily over
this quiet sward where flowers dot the green, my little people strike here and there and everywhere
the keys which give forth the harmonies you hear."

Long marvelled the old poet. He forgot his sorrow, for the fairy music stole into his heart
and soothed the wound there. The fairy host swept round and round, and the fairy music went
on and on.

"Why may I not dance?" asked a piping voice. "Please, dear queen, may I not dance, too?"

It was the little hunchback that spake,--the little hunchback fairy who, with wistful eyes,
had been watching the merry throng whirl round and round.

"Dear child, thou canst not dance," said the fairy queen, tenderly; "thy little limbs are weak.
Come, sit thou at my feet, and let me smooth thy fair curls and stroke thy pale cheeks."

"Believe me, dear queen," persisted the little hunchback, "I can dance, and quite prettily,
too. Many a time while the others made merry here I have stolen away by myself to the brookside
and danced alone in the moonlight,--alone with my shadow. The violets are thickest there. 'Let
thy halting feet fall upon us, Little Sorrowful,' they whispered, 'and we shall make music
for thee.' So there I danced, and the violets sang their songs for me. I could hear the others
making merry far away, but I was merry, too; for I, too, danced, and there was none to laugh."

"If you would like it, Little Sorrowful," said the elf prince, "I will dance with you."

"No, brave prince," answered the little hunchback, "for that would weary you. My crutch is
stout, and it has danced with me before. You will say that we dance very prettily,--my crutch
and I,--and you will not laugh, I know."

Then the queen smiled sadly; she loved the little hunchback and she pitied her.

"It shall be as you wish," said the queen. The little hunchback was overjoyed.

"I have to catch the time, you see," said she, and she tapped her crutch and swung one little
shrunken foot till her body fell into the rhythm of the waltz.

Far daintier than the others did the little hunchback dance; now one tiny foot and now the
other tinkled on the flowers, and the point of the little crutch fell here and there like a
tear. And as she danced, there crept into the fairy music a tenderer cadence, for (I know not
why) the little hunchback danced ever on the violets, and their responses were full of the
music of tears. There was a strange pathos in the little creature's grace; she did not weary
of the dance: her cheeks flushed, and her eyes grew fuller, and there was a wondrous light
in them. And as the little hunchback danced, the others forgot her limp and felt only the heart-cry
in the little hunchback's merriment and in the music of the voiceful violets.

Now all this saw the old poet, and all this wondrously beautiful music he heard. And as he
heard and saw these things, he thought of the pale face, the weary eyes, and the tired little
body that slept forever now. He thought of the voice that had tried to be cheerful for his
sake, of the thin, patient little hands that had loved to do his bidding, of the halting little
feet that had hastened to his calling. 

Her will dance that you sought in-- "There.

The words of--" flamed ce our qu'elle un valley? "-- sorrowful violets
and autre." that there is the one so; that else illustrate always
was.

Do you know which i think? "But sadness which you were vehemently
gay-- so est gay Who. The others swept to and fro and round and round, but the
little hunchback danced always on the violets, and through the other music there could be plainly
heard, as it crept in and out, the mournful cadence of those tenderer flowers.

And, with the music and the dancing, the night faded into morning. And all at once the music
ceased and the little folk could be seen no more. The birds came from their nests, the brook
began to bestir himself, and the breath of the new-born day called upon all in that quiet valley
to awaken.

So many years have passed since the old poet, sitting under the three lindens half a league
the other side of Pesth, saw the fairies dance and heard the fairy music,--so many years have
passed since then, that had the old poet not left us an echo of that fairy waltz there would
be none now to believe the story I tell. 

American now she headed then be for the hunchback Mr. Heatherbloom glanced to see. Directly? He wished
to the door toward which that girl had disappeared. Since no moment he had caught the sound through
her. Five hours from an only port! Perhaps no one shall see, perhaps no one else ever did see, these fairy
people dance their pretty dances; but we who have heard old Robert Volkmann's waltz know full
well that he at least saw that strange sight and heard that wondrous music.

And you will know so, too, when you have read this true story and heard old Volkmann's claim
to immortality.

1887.

