I contend that Henry VIII. is essentially a realistic and not a symbolic play. Indeed, probably
no English author is less "symbolic" than Shakespeare. "Hamlet" is a play which, to my mind,
does not suffer by the simplest setting; indeed, a severe simplicity of treatment seems to
me to assist rather than to detract from the imaginative development of that masterpiece. But
I hold that, with the exception of certain scenes in "The Tempest," no plays of Shakespeare
are susceptible to what is called "symbolic" treatment. To attempt to present Henry VIII. in
other than a realistic manner would be to ensure absolute failure. Let us take an instance
from the text. By what symbolism can Shakespeare's stage directions in the Trial scene be represented
on the stage?

"A Hall in Blackfriars. Enter two vergers with short silver wands; next them two scribes in
the habit of doctors.... Next them with some small distance, follows a gentleman bearing the
purse with the great seal and a Cardinal's hat; then two priests bearing each a silver cross;
then a gentleman usher bareheaded, accompanied with a sergeant-at-arms bearing a silver mace;
then two gentlemen bearing two great silver pillars; after them, side by side, the two Cardinals,
Wolsey and Campeius; two noblemen with the sword and mace," etc.

I confess my symbolic imagination was completely gravelled, and in the absence of any symbolic
substitute, I have been compelled to fall back on the stage directions.

Yet we are gravely told by the writer of a recent article that "all Shakespeare's plays" lend
themselves of course to such symbolic treatment. We hear, indeed, that the National Theatre
is to be run on symbolic lines. If it be so, then God help the National Theatre--the symbolists
will not. No "ism" ever made a great cause. The National Theatre, to be the dignified memorial
we all hope it may be, will owe its birth, its being and its preservation to the artists, who
alone are the guardians of any art. It is the painter, not the frame-maker, who upholds the
art of painting; it is the poet, not the book-binder, who carries the torch of poetry. It was
the sculptor, and not the owner of the quarry, who made the Venus of Milo. It is sometimes
necessary to re-assert the obvious.

Now there are plays in which symbolism is appropriate--those of Maeterlinck, for instance.
But if, as has been said, Maeterlinck resembles Shakespeare, Shakespeare does not resemble
Maeterlinck. Let us remember that Shakespeare was a humanist, not a symbolist.

The End

The end of the play of Henry VIII. once more illustrates the pageantry of realism, as prescribed
in the elaborate directions as to the christening of the new-born princess.

It is this incident of the christening of the future Queen Elizabeth that brings to an appropriate
close the strange eventful history as depicted in the play of Henry VIII. And thus the injustice
of the world is once more triumphantly vindicated: Wolsey, the devoted servant of the King,
has crept into an ignominious sanctuary; Katharine has been driven to a martyr's doom; the
adulterous union has been blessed by the Court of Bishops; minor poets have sung their blasphemous
pæans in unison. The offspring of Anne Boleyn, over whose head the Shadow of the Axe is already
hovering, has been christened amid the acclamations of the mob; the King paces forth to hold
the child up to the gaze of a shouting populace, accompanied by the Court and the Clergy--trumpets
blare, drums roll, the organ thunders, cannons boom, hymns are sung, the joy bells are pealing.
A lonely figure in black enters weeping. It is the Fool!

CHRONOLOGY OF PUBLIC EVENTS DURING THE LIFETIME OF KING HENRY VIII.

  1491.  Birth of Henry, second son of Henry VII. and Elizabeth of York.

  1501.  Marriage of Arthur, Prince of Wales, eldest son of Henry VII. and
         Elizabeth of York, to Katharine of Aragon, daughter of Ferdinand
         and Isabella of Spain.

  1502.  Death of Arthur, Prince of Wales.

  1509.  Death of King Henry VII.

         Marriage of Henry VIII. at Westminster Abbey with Katharine of
         Aragon, his brother's widow.

         Thomas Wolsey made King's Almoner.

  1511.  Thomas Wolsey called to the King's Council.

         The Holy League established by the Pope.

  1512.  War with France.

  1513.  Battles of the Spurs and of Flodden.

         Wolsey becomes Chief Minister.

  1516.  Wolsey made Legate.

         Dissolution of the Holy League.

  1517.  Luther denounces Indulgences.

  1520.  Henry meets Francis at "Field of Cloth of Gold."

         Luther burns the Pope's Bull.

  1521.  Quarrel of Luther with Henry.

         Henry's book against Luther presented to the Pope.

         Pope Leo confers on Henry the title "Fidei Defensor."

  1522.  Renewal of war with France.

  1523.  Wolsey quarrels with the Commons on question of 20 per cent.
         property tax.

  1525.  Benevolences of one-tenth from the laity and of one-fourth from
         clergy demanded.

         Exaction of Benevolences defeated.

         Peace with France.

  1527.  Henry resolves on a Divorce.

         Sack of Rome.

  1528.  Pope Clement VII. issues a commission to the Cardinals Wolsey and
         Campeggio for a trial of the facts on which Henry's application
         for a divorce was based.

  1529.  Trial of Queen Katharine at Blackfriars' Hall.

         Katharine appeals to Rome.

         Fall of Wolsey. Ministry of Norfolk and Sir Thomas More.

         Rise of Thomas Cromwell.

  1530.  Wolsey arrested for treason.

         Wolsey's death at Leicester Abbey.

  1531.  Henry acknowledged as "Supreme Head of the Church of England."

  1533.  Henry secretly marries Anne Boleyn.

         Cranmer, in Archbishop of Canterbury's Court, declares
         Katharine's marriage invalid and the marriage of Henry and Anne
         lawful. Anne Boleyn crowned Queen in Westminster Abbey.

         Birth of Elizabeth (Queen Elizabeth).

  1535.

         Execution of Sir Thomas More.

  1536.  English Bible issued.

         Dissolution of lesser Monasteries.

         Death of Katharine of Aragon.

         Execution of Anne Boleyn.

         Henry's marriage with Jane Seymour.

  1537.  Birth of Edward VI.

         Death of Jane Seymour.

         Dissolution of greater Monasteries.

  1540.  Henry's marriage with Anne of Cleves.

         Execution of Thomas Cromwell.

         Henry divorces Anne of Cleves.

         Henry's marriage with Catherine Howard.

  1542.  Execution of Catherine Howard.

         Completion of the Tudor Conquest of Ireland.

  1543.  War with France.

         Henry's marriage with Catherine Parr.

  1547.  Death of Henry. Age 55 years and 7 months.

         He reigned 37 years and 9 months.  "The Merry Wives of Windsor."

  1892.  "Hamlet."

  1896.  "King Henry IV." (Part I.)

B.--AT HIS MAJESTY'S THEATRE

  1898.  "Julius Cæsar."

  1899.  "King John."

  1900.  "A Midsummer's Night's Dream."

  1901.  "Twelfth Night."

  1903.  "King Richard II."

  1904.  "The Tempest."

  1905.  "Much Ado About Nothing."

         First Annual Shakespeare Festival:
           "King Richard II."
           "Twelfth Night."
           "The Merry Wives of Windsor."
           "Hamlet."
           "Much Ado About Nothing."
           "Julius Cæsar."

  1906.  "The Winter's Tale."

         "Antony and Cleopatra."

         Second Annual Shakespeare Festival:
           "The Tempest."
           "Hamlet."
           "King Henry IV." (Part I.)
           "Julius Cæsar."
           "The Merry Wives of Windsor."

  1907.  Third Annual Shakespeare Festival:
           "The Tempest."
           "The Winter's Tale."
           "Hamlet."
           "Twelfth Night."
           "Julius Cæsar."
           "The Merry Wives of Windsor."

  1908.  "The Merchant of Venice."

         Fourth Annual Shakespeare Festival:
           "The Merry Wives of Windsor."
           "The Merchant of Venice."
           "Twelfth Night."
           "Hamlet."

  1909.  Fifth Annual Shakespeare Festival:
           "King Richard III."
           "Twelfth Night."
           "The Merry Wives of Windsor."
           "Hamlet."
           "Julius Cæsar."
           "The Merchant of Venice."
           "Macbeth." (Mr. Arthur Bourchier's Company.)
           "Antony and Cleopatra" (Act II., Scene 2).

  1910.  Sixth Annual Shakespeare Festival:
           "The Merry Wives of Windsor."
           "Julius Cæsar."
           "Twelfth Night."
           "Hamlet." (By His Majesty's Theatre Company and by Mr. H. B.
               Irving's Company.)
           "The Merchant of Venice." (By His Majesty's Theatre Company
               and by Mr. Arthur Bourchier's Company.)
           "King Lear." (Mr. Herbert Trench's Company.)
           "The Taming of the Shrew." (Mr. F. R. Benson and Company.)
           "Coriolanus." (Mr. F. R. Benson and Company.)
           "Two Gentlemen of Verona." (The Elizabethan Stage Society's
               Company.)
           "King Henry V." (Mr. Lewis Waller and Company.)
           "King Richard II."
           Scenes from "Macbeth" and "Romeo and Juliet."

  1910.  September 1st, "King Henry VIII."

PRINTED BY CASSELL & COMPANY, LIMITED, LONDON, E.C.

15.311

SPECIAL SERIAL ISSUE

The Century Shakespeare

  Introductions by the famous Shakespearean
  Scholar,
  Dr. FURNIVALL,
  assisted by JOHN MUNRO

FULL NOTES, MAPS, and GLOSSARIES

Commencing with the Henry VIII Edition, published on the eve of His Majesty's Theatre Revival,
the CENTURY SHAKESPEARE WILL BE ISSUED

Weekly in 40 Volumes at 9{D.} net One Volume per week thus affording every reader an opportunity
of obtaining this famous Edition, with its unsurpassable scholarship, at a merely nominal weekly
cost.

Each volume will contain a beautiful Photogravure Frontispiece, reproduced from a Painting
by a FAMOUS ARTIST.

The Henry VIII Volume bears on its cover a Colour Reproduction of Mr. Charles Buchel's picture
of Sir Herbert Tree as "Cardinal Wolsey."

The next volume is "SHAKESPEARE: LIFE AND WORK," by Dr. FURNIVALL and JOHN MUNRO. The most
human document about the Poet yet published.

It contains a beautiful Coloured Reproduction of the famous picture, "ROMEO AND JULIET," by
Frank Dicksee, R.A.

Complete Prospectus free on receipt of a Postcard.

  OF ALL BOOKSELLERS AND NEWSAGENTS
  CASSELL AND CO., LIMITED, LA BELLE SAUVAGE,
  LONDON, E.C.

Footnotes:

[1] Cavendish was Wolsey's faithful secretary, and after his fall wrote the interesting "Life
of Wolsey," one of the manuscript copies of which evidently fell into Shakespeare's hands before
he wrote Henry VIII.

[2] "Pastime with Good Company," composed and written by Henry, is sung in the production at
His Majesty's Theatre.

[3] Hypocras--"A favourite medicated drink, compound of wine, usually red, with spices and sugar."

[4] It is Wolsey's fool to whom is given the final note of the play in the production at His
Majesty's Theatre.

[5] The ceremony of bringing the Blessed Sacrament from the sepulchre where it had lain since
the Good Friday. This took place early on Easter Monday.

