Were you standing on the banks of the Ganges you might, perhaps, in one place see two or three
young men carrying a sick female to the river. If you should ask what they are going to do
with her, perhaps they would reply, We are going to give her up to Gunga, to purify her soul,
that she may go to heaven; for she is our mother. In another place you might see a father and
mother sprinkling a beloved child with muddy water, endeavoring to soothe his dying agonies
by saying, "It is blessed to die by Gunga, my son; to die by Gunga is blessed, my son." In
another place you might see a man descending from a boat with empty water-pans tied around
his neck, which pans, when filled, will drag down the poor creature to the bottom, to be seen
no more. Here is murder in the name of religion. He is a devotee, and has purchased heaven,
as he supposes, by this his last good deed. In another place you might see a person seated
in the water, accompanied by a priest, who pours down the throat of the dying man mud and water,
and cries out, "O mother Gunga, receive his soul." The dying man may be roused to sensibility
by the violence. He may entreat his priest to desist; but his entreaties are drowned. He persists
in pouring the mud and water down his throat, until he is gradually stifled, suffocated--suffocated
in the name of humanity--suffocated in the name of religion.

It happens, sometimes, in cases of sudden and violent attacks of disease, that they cannot
be conveyed to the river before death. Under such circumstances, a bone is preserved, and at
a convenient season is taken down and thrown into the river. This, it is believed, contributes
essentially to the salvation of the deceased.

Sometimes strangers are left on the banks to die, without the ceremony of drinking Ganges water.
Of these, some have been seen creeping along with the flesh half eaten off their bones by the
birds; others with their limbs torn by dogs and jackals, and others partly covered with insects.

After a person is taken down to the river, if he should recover, it is looked upon by his friends
as a great misfortune. He becomes an outcast. Even his own children will not eat with him,
nor offer him the least attention. If they should happen to touch him, they must wash their
bodies, to cleanse them from the pollution which has been contracted. About fifty miles north
of Calcutta, are two villages inhabited entirely by these poor creatures, who have become outcasts
in consequence of their recovery after having been taken down to the Ganges.

At the mouth of the river Hoogly, which is one of the branches of the Ganges, is the island
Sauger, which I saw as we approached Calcutta after having been at sea for one hundred and
twenty-eight days. Now, my dear children, if you come out to India as missionaries, you will
have to sail nearly one hundred and thirty days before you can reach it. Sauger island is the
island where, formerly, hundreds of mothers were in the habit of throwing their children to
the crocodiles, and where these mothers were wont to weep and cry if the crocodiles did not
devour their children before their eyes. Think what a dreadful religion that must be, which
makes mothers so hard-hearted. Did you ever take any corn or Indian meal and throw it to the
chickens? And what did these chickens do? Did they not come around you and eat it? Well, just
in this way the crocodiles would come near those mothers, and devour their children. Here is
a picture of a mother throwing her child to a crocodile.

I am glad to tell you, that the British have put a stop to the sacrifice of children at that
place; but mothers continue to destroy their children elsewhere, and will continue to destroy
them until Christians send the Gospel to them. It is not improbable that vast numbers of children
are annually destroyed in the Ganges. Mothers sacrifice them, in consequence of vows which
they have made. When the time to sacrifice them has come, they take them down to the river,
and encourage them to go out so far that they are taken away by the stream, or they push them
off with their own hands.

I just remarked, that mothers will continue to destroy their children until the Gospel is sent
to them. That the Gospel does prevent such things, the following circumstance will show. Several
years ago, a missionary lady went from New England to India. As she was walking out one morning,
on the banks of the Ganges, she saw a heathen mother weeping. She went up to her, sat down
by her side, put her hand into hers, and asked what was the matter with her. "I have just been
making a basket of flags," said she, "and putting my infant in it--pushing it off into the
river, and drowning it. And my gods are very much pleased with me, because I have done it."
After this missionary lady had heard all she had to say, she told her that her gods were no
gods; that the only true God delights not in such sacrifices, but turns in horror from them;
and that, if she would be happy here and hereafter, she must forsake her sins, and pray to
Jesus Christ, who died to save sinners like herself. This conversation was the means of the
conversion of that mother, and she never again destroyed any of her infants.

Such is the power of the blessed Gospel. And what the Gospel has done once, it can do again.
If Christians will send it to them, with the blessing of God, the time will soon come when
heathen mothers will no more destroy their children. And have you nothing to do in this great
work, my dear children? When you grow up, cannot you go and tell them of the Saviour? Here
is a very pretty hymn about a heathen mother throwing her child to a crocodile.

    See that heathen mother stand
    Where the sacred currents flow,
    With her own maternal hand,
    'Mid the waves her infant throw.

    Hark, I hear the piteous scream--
    Frightful monsters seize their prey,
    Or the dark and bloody stream
    Bears the struggling child away.

    Fainter now, and fainter still,
    Breaks the cry upon the ear;
    But the mother's heart is steel,
    She unmoved that cry can hear.

    Send, O send the Bible there,
    Let its precepts reach the heart;
    She may then her children spare,
    Act the mother's tender part.

I have heard of a little boy who learned this hymn. He was deeply affected by it, and wanted
very much to give something to send the Gospel to India. But he had no money. He was, however,
willing to labor in order to earn some.

About one hundred miles above the mouth of the Hoogly is the city of Calcutta, and about five
hundred miles above that city is the city of Benares. In these cities, as well as in other
places, we see how much the heathen will contribute to support their wretched religion. A rich
native in Calcutta has been known to spend more than one hundred thousand dollars on a single
festival--the festival of the goddess Karle--and more than thirty thousand dollars every year
afterwards during his life, for the same purpose. Not long since, a rich native gave at one
time to his idols more than one million two hundred thousand dollars. And what have Christians
ever done to honor their Saviour, which will bear a comparison with what the heathen do for
their idols? Alas, alas, few Christian men or Christian women, in all the church, are willing
to give even one-tenth of their annual income to the Lord. Most of those who are rich, hoard
up their money, instead of spending it for the purpose of saving souls. And there are many
persons who have never given a farthing to send the Gospel to the heathen. O, what will such
say, when they must meet the heathen at the bar of God?

CHAPTER XIII.

THE GODDESS DURGA.

My dear Children--From what I said, in my last chapter, about the goddess Gunga, you see that
the Hindoos worship goddesses as well as gods. There is another goddess much worshipped the
wife of the god Siva. She has appeared in a thousand forms, with a thousand different names.
Of all these thousand forms, Durga and Karle are the most regarded by the people. I will speak
of Durga first. Of all the festivals in Eastern India, hers is the most celebrated. She has
ten hands, in which she holds an iron club, a trident, a battle-axe, spears, thunderbolts,
etc. Thus armed, she is ever ready to fight with her enemies.

Were you to be present in the city of Calcutta in the month of September, you might everywhere
see the people busy in preparing for the yearly festival of this goddess. Images representing
her you would find in great numbers for sale, as bread or meat is sold. In the houses of the
rich, images are to be found made of gold, silver, brass, copper, crystal, stone, or mixed
metal, which are daily worshipped. These are called permanent images. Besides these, multitudes
of what are called temporary images are made--made merely for the occasion and then destroyed.
They may be made of hay, sticks, clay, wood, or other such things. Their size varies from a
few inches to twenty feet in height. If any persons are too poor to buy one of these images,
they can make them for themselves. When the festival is near at hand, people are seen in every
direction taking the images to their houses. After they are thus supplied, the festival commences.
It lasts fifteen days. The greater part of this time is spent in preparing for the three great
days of worship. Early on the morning of the first of the three great days, the Brahmins proceed
to consecrate the images, or to give them, as they suppose, life and understanding. Until they
are consecrated, they are not thought to be of any value. They are looked upon as senseless.
A wealthy family can always receive the services of one or more Brahmins, and a few of the
poor may unite and secure the services of one of them. At length the solemn hour arrives. The
Brahmin, with the leaves of a sacred tree, comes near the image. With the two forefingers of
his right hand he touches the breast, the two cheeks, the eyes, and the forehead of the image,
at each touch saying the prayer, "Let the spirit of Durga descend and take possession of this
image." By such ceremonies, and by repeating various muntrums, it is supposed that the Brahmins
have the power to bring down the goddess to take possession of the image. Having been thus
consecrated, it is believed to be a proper object of worship. Having eyes, it can now behold
every act of worship which is made; having ears, it can be delighted with music and with songs;
having a nose, it can smell the sweet perfumes which are offered; having a mouth, it can be
delighted with the rich food which is prepared for it.

After the image is consecrated, the worship begins. The devotee comes near the image, and falls
down before it. He then twists himself into a great variety of shapes. Sometimes he sits on
the floor, sometimes he stands, sometimes he looks in one direction, sometimes in another.
Then he sprinkles the idol with holy water, rinses its mouth, washes its feet, wipes it with
a dry cloth, throws flowers over it, puts jewels on it, offers perfumes to it, and finishes
by performing shaashtaangkum.

The worship of the idol is succeeded by a season of carousing, joy, and festivity. On this
occasion, large offerings are made to the idols. A rich native has been known to offer eighty
thousand pounds of sweetmeats, eighty thousand pounds of sugar, a thousand suits of cloth garments,
a thousand suits of silk, a thousand offerings of rice, plantains, and other fruits.

Bloody sacrifices are offered up on such occasions. The king of Nudiya, some time ago, offered
a large number of sheep, goats, and buffaloes on the first day of the feast, and vowed to double
the offering every day; so that the whole number sacrificed amounted to more than sixty-five
thousand. If all the animals slain throughout Hindostan, at the festival of the goddess Durga,
were collected together, they would amount to a much larger number than Solomon offered.

After the worship and offerings have been continued for three days, the festival closes. As
the morning of the first day was devoted to the consecration of the images, the morning of
the fourth is spent in unconsecrating them. This work is done by the Brahmins. They profess,
by various ceremonies, to send back the goddess to her heaven, concluding with a farewell address,
in which they tell her that they expect her to accept of all their services, and return and
pay them a visit again in the coming year. Then all unite in bidding her a sorrowful adieu,
and many seem affected even to the shedding of tears.

Soon afterwards the images are carried forth into the streets, placed on stages or platforms,
and raised on men's shoulders. As the procession moves onward through the streets, accompanied
with music and songs, amid clouds of dust, you might see them waving long hairy brushes to
wipe off the dust, and to keep off the flies and mosquitoes, which might trouble the senseless
images. But where are these processions going? To the banks of the Ganges. And for what purpose?
For the purpose of casting the images into the river. When all the ceremonies connected with
the occasion are finished, those who carry the images suddenly fall upon them, break them to
pieces, and then throw them with violence into the river. After this the people return to their
homes.

I have now given you a specimen of the image-worship of the Hindoos; and how different is it
from the worship which the Bible enjoins. The very reverse of this, as you have seen, marks
the worship of the heathen. They are not satisfied, unless they can have some object before
them, to which they can make their offerings and their prayers. Thus daily are they engaged
in a service which, above all others, is the most offensive and provoking to a holy God--a
service which has caused him to declare, that idolaters shall not enter the kingdom of heaven.
This, too, is the service in which every person, who has never given himself to the Saviour,
is engaged; and, of course, in which you are engaged if you have not given your hearts to him.
Those who think more of their money than they think of Christ, just as certainly worship the
image which is stamped on a dollar or a cent, as the heathen worship their idols. Those who
love their fathers and mothers, and brothers and sisters more than Christ, make these their
idols. And are you, my dear children, yet out of Christ? If so, you have your idols. And what
are these idols? Are they the world and its vanities? Then God is as angry with you as he is
with the heathen, and unless you give up these idols, you too must be lost.

In a tract of mine, published by the American Tract Society, entitled, "Knocking at the Door"--a
tract which I most earnestly entreat you to get and read--you will find an account of the death
of a young lady, who had chosen the world and its vanities as her idols. I was her physician.
After having attended her for about a month, I perceived, one morning, that her disease must
soon prove fatal. I told her that she could not live. She then exclaimed, "Doctor, can I not
live a month?" I informed her that she could not. Again she exclaimed, "Can I not live two
weeks?" She was told that she could not live two weeks. And such a scene of horror followed
as I never before witnessed, and may God be pleased to grant that I may never witness such
another. Until laid upon a dying bed, I fear that she had neglected to think about her soul's
concerns. Now she requested to be taken from it, and placed upon her knees, that she might
call upon God to have mercy upon her. As her case excited much attention, some of the youth
came to see her. These she warned, in the most solemn manner, not to put off repentance, as
she had done, to a dying hour. Looking up at me, on one occasion, she exclaimed, "Doctor, cannot
you save me?" Alas, what could I do for the poor sufferer. Witness, now, how anxious she was
to obtain the favor of that God whom she had hitherto neglected. Yes, so anxious that she requested
her friends not to allow her to sleep, that she might spend every remaining breath in calling
upon God to have mercy upon her. One very affecting circumstance occurred. She requested her
trunk either to be brought to her bedside, or to be opened. From this a ring, which was set
with red garnets, was taken out by herself, or by another, and handed to her. She then called
a young friend to her bedside, put the ring upon her finger, and said to her, "Don't you put
off repentance, as I have done, until a dying hour." That ring is now in my possession. In
less than forty-eight hours after I told her that she could not live, she passed into eternity.
Would that I could show you that mournful countenance, which continued long after the last
spark of life had become extinct; yes, even up to the moment when the lid of her coffin for
ever hid it from our view. Never, never shall I forget it. It was a sad monument of the wreck
within.

Now, my dear children, you would not like to die as, I fear, this young lady died. Well, then,
if you would die differently, you must live differently. You must live for Christ, if you would
die in Christ. And are you Christ's, or are you yet gay and thoughtless--as gay and as thoughtless
as this young lady was, until laid upon her dying bed? If you are so, and if you continue to
remain in this sad condition, your season of sorrow too will certainly come, and it will come
when you expect it not. As the little insect which flies round and round your candle is dazzled
with its brightness, and feels nothing but pleasure, until it unconsciously strikes the blaze
with its little wings, and is swallowed up in the flame; so you are dazzled with the pleasures
of the world, thinking nothing of the flames which may swallow you up in a moment, and put
a stop to all your joys for ever. O, that the death-bed scene of Miss Matthews might have a
happy effect upon you. O, that the solemn warning which she gave to her young friend, not to
put off repentance as she had done, until a dying hour, might continue to sound in your ears,
until you would no longer delay repentance. My dear children, this young lady, though dead,
yet speaketh. She speaks to you. She calls upon you from her tomb--from the eternal world,
to delay repentance no longer. Will you, then, be so mad as to turn a deaf ear to this call?
Will you ever take another sip from the cup of unhallowed pleasure? Will you ever direct your
little feet to the ballroom, or other places of sinful amusement? Will you hereafter prefer
your worldly joys to Christ? O, you must not, you must not. It will not do for you to be lost.
Who, O who can lie down in everlasting burnings? Who can dwell for ever with devouring flames?

CHAPTER XIV.

THE GODDESS KARLE.

My dear Children--In the preceding chapter I spoke of Karle. She, as I there mentioned, is
the wife of Siva, and, like her husband, has the power of destruction. From the images made
of her, it would appear that she is a female, of a black or dark blue color. She has four arms.
In one hand she holds a sword, and in another a human head. Her hair is dishevelled, reaching
down to her feet. Her countenance is most ferocious. Her tongue comes out of her mouth, and
hangs over her chin. She has three eyes, red and fiery. Her lips and eyebrows are streaked
with blood. She has two dead bodies for ear-rings, and wears a girdle around her loins--a girdle
made of bloody hands, which she cut off from the bodies of her enemies. She has a necklace
of skulls, which she took from the bodies of the giants and others killed by her.

Of all the Hindoo divinities, this goddess is the most cruel and revengeful. Such is her thirst
for blood, that being unable at one time to procure any giants for her prey, in order to quench
her thirst, she cut her own throat, that the blood issuing thence might spout into her mouth.
Different acts of worship are performed to appease her. If, for example, a devotee should burn
his body, by applying a burning lamp to it, it would be very pleasing to her. If he should
draw some of his blood and give it to her, or if he should cut off a piece of his flesh and
offer it as a burnt-offering, she would be still move pleased. If he should present whole burnt-offerings
upon the altar, saying, "Hrang, brang, Karle, Karle! O, horrid-toothed goddess, eat, eat; destroy
all the malignant: cut with this axe; bind, bind; seize, seize; drink this blood; spheng, spheng;
secure, secure; salutation to Karle," she would be much delighted. It is said that she will
be pleased for three months, if the people offer her the blood of a crocodile--for a thousand
years, if they offer her the blood of one man, and a hundred thousand years, if they offer
her the blood of three.

