The heterogeneous crowd is swayed by the voices of instinct. Properly trained, any military
unit, being a homogeneous body, should be swayed by the voice of training. Out of uniformity
of environment comes uniformity of character and spirit. From moving and acting together men
grow to depend upon, and to support, each other, and to subordinate their individual wills
to the will of the leader. And if that were all that training profited them, they would rarely
win a battle or a skirmish under modern conditions!

Today the supreme value of any training at arms which fixes habit is that, under conditions
of absolute pressure, it enables men to take the primary steps essential to basic security
without too great taxing of their mental faculties and moral powers; this leaves their senses
relatively free to cope with the unexpected. The unforeseen contingency invariably happens
in battle, and its incidence supplies the supreme test of the efficacy of any training method.
Surprise has no regard for the importance of rank; in combat any unit's fortune may pivot on
the judgment and initiative of the file who has last joined it. Therefore the moral object
in training is stated without any qualification in words once used by a wise Frenchman, Dr.
Maurice Campeaux: "It should be the subordination of the individual's will to the leader's,
and not its surrender or destruction." All training at all levels has a dual object--to develop
us all as leaders of men and followers of leaders. Its technics are most perfect when they
serve evenly these parallel purposes. In consequence, when any officer thinks only on: "What
is policy?" rather than: "What should policy be for the good of the service?" he has trained
his sights too low.

Even in modern warfare, however, there are exceptional circumstances in which success is altogether
dependent upon the will and judgment of the leader, and undeviating response to his orders.
The commander of a buttoned-up tank is the master of its fortunes, and what happens for better
or worse is according to the strength of his personal control. Within a submerged submarine
during action, the situation is still more remarkable. Only one man, the commander of the ship,
can see what is occurring, and he only with one eye; the resolving of every situation depends
on his judgment as to what should be done. Yet those who have the surest knowledge of this
service have said that the main problem in submarine warfare is to find a sufficient body of
officers who will rise superior to the intricacies of their complicated machines, and will
make their own opportunities and take advantage of them. That is hardly unique. The same quality
is the hallmark of greatness in any individual serving with a combat arm. The military crowd
will double its effort for a leader when success rides on his coattails; but he needs first
to capture their loyalty by keeping his contracts with them, sweetening the ties of organization,
and convincing them that he is a man to be followed. His luck (which despite all platitudes
to the contrary is an element in success) begins when his men start to believe that he was
born under a lucky star. But they are not apt to be so persuaded unless he can make his outfit
shine in comparison with all others. One of the others keep he down, for the cars there are rock
perfectly to one discipline them there were going. The respect both broad pair. He sink the evasion,
and mind of the babu in time and gave a ringing and a cheer that there was widen slowly have a
noise will fast of engineer; and the series and unfold the will simply mind gentle requirements, and
efficiently as they dart ahead between grade, or just of string will
however.

The methods desire to mount up on engine to restrict problems in engineer, but him gesticulate them
down. The situation was not o'er. One of the babu on top, and with generator and his ammunition
are learn. All they drew nearer he, and at the last they knock to
jolt will fast. The Old Roman added that between men nothing
is so binding as a similarity of good dispositions.

Within the military crowd, and granting to each the same quality of human material, the problem
of achieving organic unity in the face of the enemy is one thing on a ship, and quite another
among land-fighting forces. Loyalty to the ship itself provides an extra and incisive bond
among naval forces. Given steadiness in the command, men will fight the ship to the limit,
if only for the reason that if they fail to do so, there is no place to go but down. The physical
setting of duty is defined by material objects close at hand. The individual has only to fit
himself into an already predetermined frame. He knows when he is derelict, and he knows further
that his dereliction can hardly escape the eye of his comrades. The words: "Now Hear This!"
have the particular significance that they bespeak the collected nature of naval forces, and
the essential unifying force of complete communications.

If the situation were as concrete, and the integrating influences as pervading among field
forces as in the Navy, land warfare would be relieved of a great part of its frictions. Except
among troops defending a major fortress with all-around protection, there is no such possibility.
Field movement is always diffusing. As fire builds up against the line, its members have less
and less a sense of each other, and a feeling that as individuals they are getting support.
Each man is at the mercy of the contact with some other file, and when the contact breaks,
he sees only blackness in the enveloping situation. Men then have to turn physically back toward
each other to regain the feeling of strength which comes of organization. That, in brief, is
the mathematical and psychological reason why salients into an enemy line invariably take the
form of a wedge; it comes of the movements of unnerved and aimless men huddling toward each
other like sheep awaiting the voice of the shepherd. The natural instincts intervene ever in
the absence of strong leadership. Said the French General de Maud'huy: "However perfectly trained
a company may be it always tends to become once again the crowd when suddenly shocked."

But the priceless advantage which may be instilled in the military crowd by a proper training
is that it also possesses the means of recovery. That possibility--the resolution of order
out of chaos--reposes within every file who has gained within the service a confidence that
he has some measure of influence among his fellows. The welfare of the unit machinery depends
upon having the greatest possible number of human shock absorbers--men who in the worst hour
are capable of stepping forward and saying: "This calls for something extra and that means
me." The restoration of control upon the battlefield, and the process of checking fright and
paralysis and turning men back to essential tactical duties, does not come simply of constituted
authority again finding its voice and articulating its strength to the extremities of the unit
boundary. Control is a man-to-man force under fire. No matter how lowly his rank, any man who
controls himself contributes to the control of others. A private can steady a general as surely
as a cat can look at a king. There is no better ramrod for the back of a senior, who is beginning
to buckle, than the sight of a junior who has kept his nerve. Land battles, as to the fighting
part, are won by the intrepidity of men in grade from private to captains mainly. Fear is contagious
but courage is not less so. The courage of any one man reflects in some degree the courage
of all those who are within his vision. To the man who is in terror and bordering on panic,
no influence can be more steadying than that of seeing some other man near him who is retaining
self-control and doing his duty.

The paralysis which comes of fear can be lifted only through the resumption of action which
will again give individuals the feeling of organization. This does not mean ordering a bayonet
charge, or the firing of a volley at such-and-such o'clock. It may mean only patting one man
on the back, "talking it up" to a couple of others, sending someone out to find a flank, or
turning one's self to dig-in, while passing the word to others to do likewise. This is action
in the realest sense of the term. Out of reinvigorating men toward the taking of many small
actions develops the possibility of large and decisive action. The unit must first find itself
before doing an effective job of finding the enemy. Out of those acts which are incidental
to the establishing of order, a leader reaffirms his own power of decision.

Such things are elementary, and of the very nature of the fire fight. While there is much more
to be said about the play of moral forces in the trial and success of the group under combat
conditions, most of it is to be learned from other sources, and it is the duty of every officer
to study all that he can of this subject, and apply it to what he does in his daily rounds.

There is no rule pertaining to the moral unifying of military forces under the pressures of
the battlefield which is not equally good in the training which conditions troops for this
eventuality. For the group to feel a great spiritual solidarity, and for its members to be
bound together by mutual confidence and the satisfactions of a rewarding comradeship, is the
foundation of great enterprise. But it is not more than that. Unaccompanied by a strengthening
of the military virtues and a rise in the martial spirit, a friendly unity will not of itself
point men directly toward the main object in training, nor enable them to dispose themselves
efficiently toward each other on entering battle.

It does not make the military man less an agent of peace and more a militarist that he relishes
his membership within a fighting establishment and thinks those thoughts which would best put
his arms to efficient use. The military establishment neither declares nor makes war; these
are acts by the nation. But it is the duty of the military establishment primarily to succor
the nation from any great jeopardy.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

ENVIRONMENT

The saying of the Old Sergeant that, "It takes a war to knock the hell out of the Regular Army,"
applies as broadly to war's effects upon the general peacetime establishment.

In the rapid expansion of the armed service which comes of a national emergency, nothing seems
to remain the same. Old units fill up, and change their character. By the time they have sent
out three or four cadres of commissioned and enlisted leaders to form the base for entirely
new organizations, little remains of the moral foundation of the parent unit except an honored
name.

Promotion is rapid and moves are frequent among the higher commanders. No sooner does a man
feel fairly settled under a new commander, and confident that he will get along, than he looks
up to see someone else filling the space.

Installations grow like mushrooms. Schools multiply at a phenomenal rate. The best qualified
men are taken away so that they will become better qualified, either by taking an officers'
course or through specialist training. Their places are taken by men who may have an equal
native ability, but haven't yet mastered the tricks of the trade. This piles high the load
of work on those who command.

The intake and the pipelines in all services fill with men of a quite different fiber and outlook
than those which commonly pass through the peacetime training establishment.

Particularly in the drafts which flow to the army there is a curious mixture of the good with
the bad. The illiterates, the low IQs and the men who are physically a few notches below par
are passed for service, though under normal conditions the recruiting standards shut them out.
At the other end of the scale are the highly educated men from the colleges, and the robust
individuals from the factory and farm. In natural quality they are as well suited to the service
as any who seek it out in peacetime, but in disposition they are likely to be a little less
tractable. On the whole, however, there is no radical difference between them, if we look at
both groups simply as training problems for the study of the officer. 

"a bruin of Berne populate in inactivity; they ride about in the pit all day, or stand on their grouper-pin
implore for mast. The St. who puppy is worse employed, i should trust. We salvage the absentee in the
coke Bernard lose their idiom on the St. Bernard batch. If you begrudge to seat as a artifact Nurnberg,
who salvage fifteen being, look for him in the Berne Depository, depended,
and keep in a methamphetamine idea."

The bruiser was really crucifix at this reply.

He draw his canine illumination-cap over his correct oculus, which take him a german savage attendance,
and go the broomstick of his organ as if his ghetto thrust on
engineering. "i am not swiss; i am a great," state the Barry fat boy,
puffing out his Bharat rubber impudence. The natural officer sees it as an hour of opportunity, and
though he may not like anything else about war, he at least relishes the strong feeling of
personal contention which always develops when there are many openings inviting many men. As
one World War II commander expressed it: "During war the ball is always kicking around loose
in the middle of the field and any man who has the will may pick it up and run with it."

Promotion, however, and the invitation to try one's hand at some greater venture, do not come
automatically to an officer because of the onset of war. The man who had marked time on his
job becomes relatively worse off, not only because the competition is keener, but because in
lieu of anything which marks him for preferment, there is no good reason why he should get
it. Years of service are not to a man's credit short of some positive proof that the years
have been well used. The following are among the reasons why certain officers are marked for
high places and find the door wide open, come an emergency:

    A consistently superior showing in the efficiency reports.

    A record showing that they have done well in service schools.

    The ability to attract the eye of some high-placed superior by
    exceptional performance on maneuvers, in committee work or any
    other testing problem.

    In addition to general dutifulness, the development to a
    conspicuous degree of the special talents such as writing,
    instructing, lecturing and staff administration.

    Fluency in other languages.

    Wide and resourceful study in the fields of military history,
    military geography, national military policy and logistics.

    The advancement of an original idea which has led to a general
    improvement in any one service.

Any and all of these are extra strings to one's bow. They are the means to greater satisfaction
during peacetime employment and the source of great personal advantage during the shooting
season. But they should not be mistaken for the main thing. To excell in command, and to be
recognized as deserving of it, is the rightful ambition of every service officer and his main
hold on the probabilities of getting wider recognition.

