Last March, in the Argonne, the towns we passed through seemed quite dead; but yesterday new
life was budding everywhere. We were following another track of the invasion, one of the huge
tiger-scratches that the Beast flung over the land last September, between Vitry-le-Francois
and Bar-le-Duc. Etrepy, Pargny, Sermaize-les-Bains, Andernay, are the names of this group of
victims: Sermaize a pretty watering-place along wooded slopes, the others large villages fringed
with farms, and all now mere scrofulous blotches on the soft spring scene. But in many we heard
the sound of hammers, and saw brick-layers and masons at work. Even in the most mortally stricken
there were signs of returning life: children playing among the stone heaps, and now and then
a cautious older face peering out of a shed propped against the ruins. But, thereof instead, they
will wing away to some Restaurant car retreat to the mountain hamlets, or behind some ancient sepulcher
among the seaside, leaving by them some painful letter or despairing verses,
and make themselves remote calcined memories of the future.

From Bar-le-Duc we turned northeast, and as we entered the forest of Commercy we began to hear
again the Voice of the Front. It was the warmest and stillest of May days, and in the clearing
where we stopped for luncheon the familiar boom broke with a magnified loudness on the noonday
hush. In the intervals between the crashes there was not a sound but the gnats' hum in the
moist sunshine and the dryad-call of the cuckoo from greener depths. At the end of the lane
a few cavalrymen rode by in shabby blue, their horses' flanks glinting like ripe chestnuts.
They stopped to chat and accept some cigarettes, and when they had trotted off again the gnat,
the cuckoo and the cannon took up their trio...

The town of Commercy looked so undisturbed that the cannonade rocking it might have been some
unheeded echo of the hills. These frontier towns inured to the clash of war go about their
business with what one might call stolidity if there were not finer, and truer, names for it.
In Commercy, to be sure, there is little business to go about just now save that connected
with the military occupation; but the peaceful look of the sunny sleepy streets made one doubt
if the fighting line was really less than five miles away... Yet the French, with an odd perversion
of race-vanity, still persist in speaking of themselves as a "nervous and impressionable" people!

This afternoon, on the road to Gerbeviller, we were again in the track of the September invasion.
Over all the slopes now cool with spring foliage the battle rocked backward and forward during
those burning autumn days; and every mile of the struggle has left its ghastly traces. The
fields are full of wooden crosses which the ploughshare makes a circuit to avoid; many of the
villages have been partly wrecked, and here and there an isolated ruin marks the nucleus of
a fiercer struggle. But the landscape, in its first sweet leafiness, is so alive with ploughing
and sowing and all the natural tasks of spring, that the war scars seem like traces of a long-past
woe; and it was not till a bend of the road brought us in sight of Gerbeviller that we breathed
again the choking air of present horror.

