"I was with Karl when Lassalle visited him, in 1862, and heard what he said then about foolish
attempts to start revolutions by the sword. Lassalle had sent a Captain Schweigert to Karl
a little while before that with a letter, begging Karl to help the Captain raise the money
to buy a lot of guns for an insurrection. Karl had refused to have anything to do with the
scheme, and Lassalle was mad about it. 'Your ways are too slow for me, my dear Marx,' he said.
'Why, it'll take a whole generation to develop a political party of the proletariat strong
enough to do anything.'

"Karl smiled in that quiet way he had and said: 'Yes, it's slow enough, friend Lassalle, slow
enough. But we want brains for the foundation of our revolution--brains, not powder. We must
have patience, lots of patience. Mushrooms grow up in a night and last only a day; oaks take
a hundred years to grow, but the wood lasts a thousand years. And it's oaks we want, not mushrooms.'"

"How like Marx that was, Hans," said the Young Comrade then, "how patient and far-seeing! And
what did Lassalle think of that?"

"He never understood Karl, I think. Anyhow, Karl told me that Lassalle ceased to be his friend
after that meeting. There was no quarrel, you understand, only Lassalle realized that he and
Karl were far apart in their views. 'Lassalle is a clever man all right,' Karl used to say,
'but he wants twelve o'clock at eleven, like an impatient child.' And there's lots of folks
like Lassalle in that respect, my lad; folks that want oaks to grow in a night like mushrooms.

"Well, I stayed in the International until the very last, after the Hague Congress when it
was decided to make New York the headquarters. That was a hard blow to me, lad. It looked to
me as if Karl had made a mistake. I felt that the International was practically killed when
the General Council was moved to America, and told Karl so. But he knew that as well as I did,
only he couldn't help himself.

"'Yes, Hans, I'm afraid you're right. The International can't amount to much under the circumstances.
But it had to be, Hans, it had to be. My health is very poor, and I'm about done for, so far
as fighting is concerned. I simply can't keep on fighting Bakunin and his crowd, Hans, and
if I drop the fight the International will pass into Bakunin's control. And I'd rather see
the organization die in America than live with Bakunin at the head; it's better so, better
so, Hans.' And it was then, when I heard him talk like that, and saw how old-looking he had
grown in a few months, that I knew we must soon lose Karl."

VII

"But he did not die soon--he lived more than ten years after that, Hans," said the Young Comrade.
"And ten years is a good long time."

"Ach, ten years! But what sort of years were they? Tell me that," demanded old Hans with trembling
voice. "Ten years of sickness and misery--ten years of perdition, that's what they were, my
lad! Didn't I see him waste away like a plant whose roots are gnawed by the worms? Didn't I
see his frame shake to pieces almost when that cough took hold of him? Aye, didn't I often
think that I'd be glad to hear that he was dead--glad for his own sake, to think that he was
out of pain at last?

"Yes, he lived ten years, but he was dying all the while. He must have been in pain pretty
nearly all the time, every minute an agony! 'Oh, I'd put an end to it all, Hans, if I didn't
have to finish Capital,' he said to me once as we walked over Hampstead Heath, he leaning upon
my arm. 'It's Hell to suffer so, year after year, but I must finish that book. Nothing I've
ever done means so much as that to the movement, and nobody else can do it. I must live for
that, even though every breath is an agony.'

"But he didn't live to finish his task, after all. It was left for Engels to put the second
and third volumes in shape. A mighty good thing it was for the movement that there was an Engels
to do it, I can tell you. Nobody else could have done it. But Engels was like a twin brother
to Karl. Some of the comrades were a bit jealous sometimes, and used to call Karl and Engels
the 'Siamese twins,' but that made no difference to anybody. If it hadn't been for Engels Karl
wouldn't have lived so long as he did, and half his work would never have been done. I never
got so close to the heart of Engels as I did to Karl, but I loved him for Karl's sake, and
because of the way he always stood by Karl through thick and thin.

"I can't bear to tell about the last couple of years--how I used to find Karl sick abed in
one room and his wife, the lovely Jenny, in another room tortured by cancer. Terrible it was,
and I used to go away from the house hoping that I might hear they were both dead and out of
their misery forever. Only Engels seemed to think that Karl would get better. He got mad as
a hatter when I said one day that Karl couldn't live. But when Jenny died Engels said to me
after the funeral, 'It's all over with Marx now, friend Fritzsche; his life is finished, too.'
And I knew that Engels spoke the truth.

"And then Karl died. He died sitting in his arm chair, about three o'clock in the afternoon
of the fourteenth of March, 1883. I heard the news that evening from Engels and went over to
the house in Maitland Park Road, and that night I saw him stretched out upon the bed, the old
familiar smile upon his lips. I couldn't say a word to Engels or to poor Eleanor Marx--I could
only press their hands in silence and fight to keep back the sobs and tears.

"And then on the Saturday, at noon, he was buried in Highgate Cemetery, in the same grave with
his wife. And while Engels was speaking over the grave, telling what a wonderful philosopher
Karl was, my mind was wandering back over the years to Treves. Once more we were boys playing
together, or fighting because he would play with little Jenny von Westphalen; once more I seemed
to hear Karl telling stories in the schoolyard as in the old days. Once again it seemed as
if we were back in the old town, marching through the streets shouting out the verses Karl
wrote about the old teacher, poor old Herr von Holst.

"And then the scene changed and I was in Bingen with my Barbara, laughing into the faces of
Karl and his Jenny, and Karl was picking the bits of rice from his pockets and laughing at
the joke, while poor Jenny blushed crimson. What Engels said at the grave I couldn't tell;
I didn't hear it at all, for my mind was far away. I could only think of the living Karl, not
of the corpse they were giving back to Mother Earth.

"It seemed to me that the scene changed again, and we were back in Cologne--Karl addressing
the judge and jury, defending the working class, I listening and applauding like mad. And then
the good old Lessner took my arm and led me away.

"Ah, lad, it was terrible, terrible, going home that afternoon and thinking of Karl lying there
in the cold ground. The sun could no longer shine for me, and even Barbara and the little grandchild,
our Barbara's little Gretchen, couldn't cheer me. Karl was a great philosopher, as Engels said
there at the graveside, but he was a greater man, a greater comrade and friend. They talk about
putting up a bronze monument somewhere to keep his memory fresh, but that would be foolish.
Little men's memories can be kept alive by bronze monuments, but such men as Karl need no monuments.
So long as the great struggle for human liberty endures Karl's name will live in the hearts of men.

"Aye, and in the distant ages--when the struggle is over--when happy men and women read with
wondering hearts of the days of pain which we endure--then Karl's name will still be remembered.
Nobody will know then that I, poor old Hans Fritzsche, went to school with Karl; that I played
with him--fought with him--loved him for nearly sixty years. But no matter; they can never
know Karl as I knew him."

Tears ran down the old man's cheeks as he lapsed into silence once more, and the Young Comrade
gently pressed one of the withered and knotted hands to his lips and went out into the night.

       *       *       *       *       *