It was towards the end of July that the poems were published, and they met with a success that
must have been gratifying to those friends who had stood by the poet in his hour of adversity,
and done what they could to ensure subscriptions. In spite of the fact that Burns certainly
looked upon himself as possessed of some poetic abilities, the reception the little volume
met with, and the impression it at once made, must have exceeded his wildest anticipations.
Even yet, however, he did not relinquish the idea of going to America. On the other hand, as
we have seen, the first use he made of the money which publication had brought him, was to
secure a berth in a vessel bound for Jamaica. But he was still compelled by the dramatic uncertainty
of circumstance. The day of sailing was postponed, else had he certainly left his native land.
It was only after Jean Armour had become the mother of twin children that there was any hint
of diffidence about sailing. For his fame had gone beyond the bounds of his native county,
and others than people in his own station had recognised his genius. Mrs. Dunlop of Dunlop
was one of the first to seek the poet's acquaintance, and she became an almost lifelong friend;
through his poems he renewed acquaintance with Mrs. Stewart of Stair. He was 'roosed' by Craigen-Gillan;
Dugald Stewart, the celebrated metaphysician, and one of the best-known names in the learned
and literary circles of Edinburgh, who happened to be spending his vacation at Catrine, not
very far from Mossgiel, invited the poet to dine with him, and on that occasion he 'dinnered
wi' a laird'--Lord Daer. Then came the appreciative letter from Dr. Blacklock to the Rev. George
Lawrie of Loudon, already mentioned. Even this letter might not have proved strong enough to
detain him in Scotland, had it not been that he was disappointed of a second edition of his
poems in Kilmarnock. Other encouragement came from Edinburgh in a very favourable criticism
of his poems in the Edinburgh Magazine. This, taken along with Dr. Blacklock's suggestion about
'a second edition more numerous than the former,' led the poet to believe that his work would
be taken up by any of the Edinburgh publishers. The feelings of a father also urged him to
remain in Scotland; and at length--probably in November--the thought of exile was abandoned.
It was with very different feelings, we may be sure, that he contemplated setting out from
Mossgiel to sojourn for a season in Edinburgh--a name that had ever been associated in his
mind with the best traditions of learning and literature in Scotland.

CHAPTER V

THE EDINBURGH EDITION

Edinburgh towards the close of last century was a very different place from Edinburgh of the
present day. It was then to a certain extent the hub of Scottish society; the centre of learning
and literature; the winter rendezvous of not a few of the nobility and gentry of Scotland.
For in those days it had its society and its season; county families had not altogether abandoned
the custom of keeping their houses in town. All roads did not then lead to London as they do
now, when Edinburgh is a capital in little more than name, and its prestige has become a tradition.
A century ago Edinburgh had all the glamour and fascination of the capital of a no mean country;
to-day it is but the historical capital invested with the glamour and fascination of a departed
glory. The very names of those whom Burns met on his first visit to Edinburgh are part of the
history of the nation. In the University there were at that time, representative of the learning
of the age, Dugald Stewart, Dr. Blair, and Dr. Robertson. David Hume was but recently dead,
and the lustre of his name remained. His great friend, Adam Smith, author of The Wealth of
Nations, was still living; while Henry Mackenzie, The Man of Feeling, the most popular writer
of his day, was editing The Lounger; and Dr. Blacklock, the blind poet, was also a name of
authority in the world of letters. Nor was the Bar, whose magnates have ever figured in the
front rank of Edinburgh society, eclipsed by the literary luminaries of the University. Lord
Monboddo has left a name, which his countrymen are not likely to forget. He was an accomplished,
though eccentric character, whose classical bent was in the direction of Epicurean parties.
His great desire was to revive the traditions of the elegant suppers of classical times. Not
only were music and painting employed to this end, but the tables were wreathed with flowers,
the odour of incense pervaded the room; the wines were of the choicest, served from decanters
of Grecian design. But, perhaps, the chief attraction to Burns in the midst of all this super-refinement
was the presence of 'the heavenly Miss Burnet,' daughter of Lord Monboddo. His genial and sunny
nature made him so great a favourite in his profession, that having been elected Dean of the
Faculty of Advocates in 1786, he was unanimously re-elected every year till 1796, when he was
victorious over Dundas of Arniston, who had been brought forward in opposition to him. The
leader of fashion was the celebrated Duchess of Gordon, who was never absent from a public
place, and 'the later the hour so much the better.' Her amusements--her life, we might say--were
dancing, cards, and company. With such a leader, the season to the very select and elegant
society of Edinburgh was certain to be a time of brilliance and gaiety; while its very exclusiveness,
and the fact that it affected or reflected the literary life of the University and the Bar,
would make it all the more ready to lionise a man like Burns when the opportunity came.

The members of the middle class caught their tone from the upper ranks, and took their nightly
sederunts and morning headaches as privileges they dared aristocratic exclusiveness to deny
them. Douce citizens, merchants, respectable tradesmen, well-to-do lawyers, forgathered when
the labours of the day were done to spend a few hours in some snug back-parlour, where mine
host granted them the privileges and privacy of a club. Such social beings as these, met to
discuss punch, law, and literature, were no less likely than their aristocratic neighbours
to receive Burns with open arms, and once he was in their midst to prolong their sittings in
his honour. Nor was Burns, if he found them honest and hearty fellows, the man to say them
nay. He was eminently a social and sociable being, and in company such as theirs he could unbend
himself as he might not do in the houses of punctilious society. The etiquette of that howff
of the Crochallan Fencibles in the Anchor Close or of Johnnie Dowie's tavern in Libberton's
Wynd was not the etiquette of drawing-rooms; and the poet was free to enliven the hours with
a rattling fire of witty remarks on men and things as he had been wont to do on the bog at
Lochlea, with only a few noteless peasants for audience.

Burns entered Edinburgh on November 28, 1786. He had spent the night after leaving Mossgiel
at the farm of Covington Mains, where the kind-hearted host, Mr. Prentice, had all the farmers
of the parish gathered to meet him. This is of interest as showing the popularity Burns's poems
had already won; while the eagerness of those farmers to see and know the man after they had
read his poems proves most strikingly how straight the poet had gone to the hearts of his readers.
They had recognised the voice of a human being, and heard it gladly. This gathering was convincing
testimony, if such were needed, of the truthfulness and sincerity of his writings. No doubt
Burns, with his great force of understanding, appreciated the welcome of those brother-farmers,
and valued it above the adulation he afterwards received in Edinburgh. The Kilmarnock Edition
was but a few months old, yet here was a gathering of hard-working men, who had read his poems,
we may be sure, from cover to cover, and now they were eager to thank him who had sung the
joys and sorrows of their workaday lives. Of course there was a great banquet, and night wore
into morning before the company dispersed. They had seen the poet face to face, and the man
was greater than his poems.

Next morning he resumed his journey, breakfasting at Carnwath, and reaching Edinburgh in the
evening. He had come, as he tells us, without a letter of introduction in his pocket, and he
took up his abode with John Richmond in Baxter's Close, off the Lawnmarket. He had known Richmond
when he was a clerk with Gavin Hamilton, and had kept up a correspondence with him ever since
he had left Mauchline. The lodging was a humble enough one, the rent being only three shillings
a week; but here Burns lodged all the time he was in Edinburgh, and it was hither he returned
from visiting the houses of the rich and great, to share a bed with his friend and companion
of many a merry meeting at Mauchline.

It would be vain to attempt to describe Burns's feelings during those first few days in Edinburgh.
He had never before been in a larger town than Kilmarnock or Ayr; and now he walked the streets
of Scotland's capital, to him full of history and instinct with the associations of centuries.
This was really the heart of Scotland, the home of heroes who fought and fell for their country,
'the abode of kings of other years.' His sentimental attachment to Jacobitism became more pronounced
as he looked on Holyrood. For Burns, a representative of the strength and weakness of his countrymen,
was no less representative of Scotland's sons in his chivalrous pity for the fate of Queen
Mary and his romantic loyalty to the gallant Prince Charlie. His poetical espousal of the cause
of the luckless Stuarts was purely a matter of sentiment, a kind of pious pity that had little
to do with reason; and in this he was typical of his countrymen even of the present day, who
are loyal to the house of Stuart in song, and in life are loyal subjects of their Queen.

We are told, and we can well believe that for the first few days of his stay he wandered about,
looking down from Arthur's Seat, gazing at the Castle, or contemplating the windows of the
booksellers' shops. We know that he made a special pilgrimage to the grave of Fergusson, and
that in a letter, dated February 6, 1787, he applied to the honourable bailies of Canongate,
Edinburgh, for permission 'to lay a simple stone over his revered ashes'; which petition was
duly considered and graciously granted.

It is related, too, that he visited Ramsay's house, and that he bared his head when he entered.
Burns over and over again, both in prose and verse, turned to these two names with a kind of
fetich worship, that it is difficult to understand. He must have known that, as a poet, he
was immeasurably superior to both. It may have been that their writings first opened his eyes
to the possibilities of the Scots tongue in lyrical and descriptive poetry; and there was something
also which appealed to him in the wretched life of Fergusson.

    'O thou, my elder brother in misfortune,
    By far my elder brother in the Muses.'

His elder brother indeed by some six years! But there is more of reverence than sound judgment
in his estimate of either Ramsay or Fergusson.

Burns, however, had come to Edinburgh with a fixed purpose in view, and it would not do to
waste his time mooning about the streets. To the Earl of Glencairn, mentioned in it, he had
been introduced probably by Mr. Dalrymple of Orangefield, whom he knew both as a brother-mason
and a brother-poet. The Earl had already seen the Kilmarnock Edition of the poems, and now
he not only introduced Burns to William Creech, the leading publisher in Edinburgh, but he
got the members of the Caledonian Hunt to become subscribers for a second edition of the poems.
To Erskine he had been introduced at a meeting of the Canongate Kilwinning Lodge of Freemasons;
and assuredly there was no man living more likely to exert himself in the interests of a genius
like Burns.

Two days after this letter to Gavin Hamilton there appeared in The Lounger Mackenzie's appreciative
notice of the Kilmarnock Edition. This notice has become historical, and at the time of its
appearance it must have been peculiarly gratifying to Burns. He had remarked before, in reference
to the letter from Dr. Blacklock, that the doctor belonged to a class of critics for whose
applause he had not even dared to hope. Now his work was criticised most favourably by the
one who was regarded as the highest authority on literature in Scotland. If a writer was praised
in The Lounger, his fame was assured. He went into the world with the hall-mark of Henry Mackenzie;
and what more was needed? The oracle had spoken, and his decision was final. His pronouncement
would be echoed and re-echoed from end to end of the country. And this great critic claimed
no special indulgence for Burns on the plea of his mean birth or poor education. He saw in
this heaven-taught ploughman a genius of no ordinary rank, a man who possessed the spirit as
well as the fancy of a great poet. He was a poet, and it mattered not whether he had been born
a peasant or a peer. 'His poetry, considered abstractedly and without the apologies arising
from his situation, seems to me fully entitled to command our feelings and obtain our applause....
The power of genius is not less admirable in tracing the manners, than in painting the passions
or in drawing the scenery of nature. That intuitive glance with which a writer like Shakspeare
discerns the character of men, with which he catches the many changing hues of life, forms
a sort of problem in the science of mind, of which it is easier to see the truth than assign
the cause.'

But Mackenzie did more than praise. He pointed out the fact that the author had had a terrible
struggle with poverty all the days of his life, and made an appeal to his country 'to stretch
out her hand and retain the native poet whose wood-notes wild possessed so much excellence.'
There seems little doubt that the concluding words of this notice led Burns for the first time
to hope and believe that, through some influential patron, he might be placed in a position
to face the future without a fear, and to cultivate poetry at his leisure. There is no mistaking
the meaning of Mackenzie's words, and he had evidently used them with the conviction that something
would be done for Burns. Unfortunately, he was mistaken; the poet, at first misled, was slowly
disillusioned and somewhat embittered. 'To repair the wrongs of suffering or neglected merit;
to call forth genius from the obscurity where it had pined indignant, and place it where it
may profit or delight the world--these are exertions which give to wealth an enviable superiority,
to greatness and to patronage a laudable pride.'

To Burns, at the time, such a criticism as this must have been all the more pleasing, inasmuch
as it was the verdict of a man whose best-known work had been one of the poet's favourite books.
We can easily imagine that, under the patronage of Lord Glencairn and Henry Erskine, and after
Mackenzie's generous recognition of his genius, the doors of the best houses in Edinburgh would
be open to him. His letter to John Ballantine, Ayr, written a few days after this criticism
appeared, shows in what circles the poet was then moving. It must have been a great change
for a man to have come straight from the stilts of the plough to be dined and toasted by such
men as Lord Glencairn, Lord Monboddo, and the Hon. Henry Erskine; to be fêted and flattered
by the Duchess of Gordon, the Countess of Glencairn, and Lady Betty Cunningham; to count amongst
his friends Mr. Mackenzie and Professors Stewart and Blair. It would have been little wonder
if his head had been turned by the patronage of the nobility, the deference and attention of
the literary and learned coteries of Edinburgh. But Burns was too sensible to be carried away
by the adulation of a season. A man of his keenness of penetration and clearness of insight
would appreciate the praise of the world at its proper value. He bore himself with becoming
dignity, taking his place in refined society as one who had a right there, without showing
himself either conceitedly aggressive or meanly servile. He took his part in conversation,
but no more than his part, and expressed himself with freedom and decision. His conversation,
in fact, astonished the literati even more than his poems had done. Perhaps they had expected
some uncouth individual who would stammer crop-and-weather commonplaces in a rugged vernacular,
or, worse still, in ungrammatical English; but here was one who held his own with them in speculative
discussion, speaking not only with the eloquence of a poet, but with the readiness, clearness,
and fluency of a man of letters. His pure English diction astonished them, but his acuteness
of reasoning, his intuitive knowledge of men and the world, was altogether beyond their comprehension.
All they had got by years of laborious study this man appeared to have as a natural gift. In
repartee, even, he could more than hold his own with them, and in the presence of ladies could
turn a compliment with the best. 'It needs no effort of imagination,' says Lockhart, 'to conceive
what the sensations of an isolated set of scholars (almost all either clergymen or professors)
must have been in the presence of this big-boned, black-browed, brawny stranger, who, having
forced his way among them from the plough-tail at a single stride, manifested in the whole
strain of his bearing and conversation a most thorough conviction that in the society of the
most eminent men of his nation he was exactly where he was entitled to be.' It was a new world
to Burns, yet he walked about as if he were of old familiar with its ways; he conducted himself
in society like one to the manner born.

All who have left written evidence of Burns's visit to Edinburgh are agreed that he conducted
himself with manliness and dignity, and all have left record of the powerful impression his
conversation made on them. His poems were wonderful; himself was greater than his poems, a
giant in intellect. A ploughman who actually dared to have formed a distinct conception of
the doctrine of association was a miracle before which schools and scholars were dumb. 'The
attentions he received during his stay in town from all ranks and descriptions of persons,
were such as would have turned any head but his own. His dress was perfectly suited to his
station, plain and unpretentious, with a sufficient attention to neatness.' Principal Robertson
has left it on record, that he had scarcely ever met with any man whose conversation displayed
greater vigour than that of Burns. Walter Scott, a youth of some sixteen years at the time,
met Burns at the house of Dr. Adam Ferguson, and was particularly struck with his poetic eye,
'which literally glowed when he spoke with feeling or interest,' and with his forcible conversation.
He insists on the same outstanding characteristics in Burns, his innate dignity, his unaffected
demeanour in company, and brilliancy in conversation. If the learned men of Edinburgh set themselves
to study the character of a genius who upset all their cherished theories of birth and education,
and to chronicle his sayings and doings, Burns at the same time was studying them, gauging
their powers intuitively, telling their limitations at a glance. For he must measure every
man he met, and himself with him. His standard was always the same; every brain was weighed
against his own; but with Burns this was never more than a comparison of capacities. He took
his stand, not by what work he had done, but by what he felt he was capable of doing. And that
is not, and cannot be, the way of the world. In all his letters at this time we see him studying
himself in the circles of fashion and learning. He could look on Robert Burns, as he were another
person, brought from the plough and set down in a world of wealth and refinement, of learning
and wit and beauty. He saw the dangers that beset him, and the temptations to which he was
exposed; he recognised that something more than his poetic abilities was needed to explain
his sudden popularity. He was the vogue, the favourite of a season; but public favour was capricious,
and next year the doors of the great might be closed against him; while patrician dames who
had schemed for his smiles might glance at him with indifferent eyes as at a dismissed servant
once high in favour. His letter to Mrs. Dunlop, dated January 15, may be taken as a just, deliberate,
and clear expression of his views of himself and society at this time. The letter is so quietly
dignified that we may quote at some length. The field of his poetry, rather than the poetry
itself, is the wonder in the eyes of stately society. To the Rev. Mr. Lawrie of Loudon he writes
in a similar strain, and speaks even more emphatically. From all his letters, indeed, at this
time we gather that he saw that novelty had much to do with his present éclat; that the tide
of popularity would recede, and leave him at his leisure to descend to his former situation;
and, above all, that he was prepared for this, come when it would.

All this time he had been busy correcting the proofs of his poems; and now that he was already
assured the edition would be a success, he began to think seriously of the future and of settling
down again as farmer. The appellation of Scottish Bard, he confessed to Mrs. Dunlop, was his
highest pride; to continue to deserve it, his most exalted ambition. He himself, about this
time, estimated that he would clear nearly £300 by authorship, and with that sum he intended
to return to farming. Mr. Miller of Dalswinton had expressed a wish to have Burns as tenant
of one of his farms, and the poet had been already approached on the subject. We also gather
from almost every letter written just before the publication of his poems, that he contemplated
an immediate return 'to his shades.' However, when the Edinburgh Edition came out, April 21,
1787, the poet found that it would be a considerable time before the whole profits accruing
from publication could be paid over to him. Indeed, there was certainly an unnecessary delay
on Creech's part in making a settlement. The first instalment of profits was not sufficient
for leasing and stocking a farm; and during the months that elapsed before the whole profits
were in his hands, Burns made several tours through the Borders and Highlands of Scotland.
This was certainly one of his dearest aims; but these tours were undertaken somewhat under
compulsion, and we doubt not he would much more gladly have gone straight back to farm-life,
and kept these leisurely pilgrimages to a more convenient season. One is not in a mood for
dreaming on battlefields, or wandering in a reverie by romantic rivers, when the future is
unsettled and life is for the time being without an aim. There is something of mystery and
melancholy hanging about these peregrinations, and the cause, it seems to us, is not far to
seek. These months are months of waiting and wearying; he is unsettled, oftentimes moody and
despondent; his bursts of gaiety appear forced, and his muse is well-nigh barren. In the circumstances,
no doubt it was the best thing he could do, to gratify his long-cherished desire of seeing
these places in his native country, whose names were enshrined in song or story. But how much
more pleasant--and more profitable both to the poet himself and the country he loved--had these
journeys been made under more favourable conditions!

The past also as much as the future weighed on the poet's mind. His days had been so fully
occupied in Edinburgh that he had little leisure to think on some dark and dramatic episodes
of Mauchline and Kilmarnock; but now in his wanderings he has time not only to think but to
brood; and we may be sure the face of Bonnie Jean haunted him in dreams, and that his heart
heard again and again the plaintive voices of little children. In several of his letters now
we detect a tone of bitterness, in which we suspect there is more of remorse than of resentment
with the world. He certainly was disappointed that Creech could not pay him in full, but he
must have been gratified with the reception his poems had got. The list of subscribers ran
to thirty-eight pages, and was representative of every class in Scotland. In the words of Cunningham:
'All that coterie influence and individual exertion--all that the noblest and humblest could
do, was done to aid in giving it a kind reception. Creech, too, had announced it through the
booksellers of the land, and it was soon diffused over the country, over the colonies, and
wherever the language was spoken. The literary men of the South seemed even to fly to a height
beyond those of the North. Some hesitated not to call him the Northern Shakspeare.'

This surely was a great achievement for one who, a few months previously, had been skulking
from covert to covert to escape the terrors of a jail. He had hardly dared to hope for the
commendation of the Edinburgh critics, yet he had been received by the best society of the
capital; his genius had been recognised by the highest literary authorities of Scotland; and
now the second edition of his poems was published under auspices that gave it the character
of a national book.

If the poems this volume contained established fully and finally the reputation of the poet,
the subscription list was a no less substantial proof of a generous and enthusiastic appreciation
of his genius on the part of his countrymen. And that Burns must have recognised. A man of
his sound common sense could not have expected more.

CHAPTER VI

BURNS'S TOURS

The Edinburgh Edition having now been published, there was no reason for the poet to prolong
his stay in the city. It was only after being disappointed of a second Kilmarnock Edition of
his poems that he had come to try his fortunes in the capital; and now that his hopes of a
fuller edition and a wider field had been realised, the purpose of his visit was accomplished,
and there was no need to fritter his time away in idleness.

