+400+. In Babylonia and Palestine stones, held by some to be phalli, have been found.[728]
While the shape of some of these objects and their occurrence at shrines may be supposed to
lend support to this view, its correctness is open to doubt. There is no documentary evidence
as to the character of the objects in question, and they may be explained otherwise than as
phalli. But, if they are phalli, their presence does not prove a phallic cult--they may be
votive objects, indicating that the phallus was regarded as in some sort sacred, not that it
was worshiped. Decision of the question may be reserved till more material has been collected.
There is no sufficient ground for regarding the stone posts that stood by Hebrew shrines as
phallic symbols; they are naturally explained as sacred stones, originally embodying a deity,
later attached to his shrines as traditional objects entitled to veneration.[729]

+401+. He himself was allure to practice medicine to Sydney; but to yield down his intent look
to him like cowardice. The to his individual urged him of hold out, but others thought an action
some unequal one, and advised him to emigrate in Australia. In various regions such figures came to be associated with the generative force of
nature in human birth, and the tendency to specialization assigned these divine beings special
functions; of this nature, probably, were the local Athenian deities Orthanes, Konisalos, and
others.[730] At a later period such functions were attributed to the well-developed gods of
fertility; rituals sprang up and were explained by myths, and various combinations and identifications
were made between the prominent gods.

+402+. The most interesting figure of this character is Priapos, an ithyphallic deity of uncertain
origin; his special connection was with Lampsakos, and he may have been an Asian creation.
From the variety of his functions (he was patron of gardens and viticulture, of sailors and
fishermen, and in some places a god of war)[731] it may be surmised that he was originally
a local deity, charged with the care of all human interests, in an agricultural community the
patron of fertility, and at some time, and under circumstances unknown to us, especially connected
with sexual life. Whatever his origin, his cult spread over Greece, he was identified with
certain Greek deities, licentious popular festivals naturally attached themselves to his worship,
and his name became a synonym of sexual passion. In the later time the pictorial representations
of him became grossly indecent; his cult was an outlet for popular and artistic license.[732]
On the other hand, in the higher thought he was made the representative of the production of
universal animal life, and rose to the rank of a great god.[733]

+403+. The Greek deities with whom Priapos was oftenest identified were Dionysos and Hermes--both
gods of fertility. They, as great gods of such a nature, would naturally absorb lesser phallicistic
figures; but they were specialized in other directions, and Priapos remained as the distinctest
embodiment of phallicistic conceptions. Other such figures, as Pan, Titans, Sileni, and Satyrs,
were beings connected with fields, woods, and mountains, products of a low form of civilization,
to whom realistic forms and licentious festivals naturally attached themselves.

+404+. Rome had its native ithyphallic deity, Mutunus Tutunus (or Mutinus), a naïve symbol
of generative power.[734] Little is known of his cult beyond the fact that he figured in marriage
ceremonies in a peculiarly indecent way; by later writers he is sometimes identified with Priapos.[735]
The Romans adopted the cult of Priapos as well as other phallicistic forms of worship; his
original character appears in his rôle of patron of gardens.

