THE GIRL AT COBHURST

                          BY FRANK R. STOCKTON

                                  1898

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

        I. DR. TOLBRIDGE
       II. MISS PANNEY
      III. BROTHER AND SISTER
       IV. THE HOME
        V. PANNEYOPATHY
       VI. MRS. TOLBRIDGE'S CALLERS
      VII. DORA BANNISTER TAKES TIME AND A MARE BY THE FORELOCK
     VIII. MRS. TOLBRIDGE'S REPORT IS NOT ACCEPTED
       IX. JOHN WESLEY AND LORENZO DOW AT LUNCHEON
        X. A SILK GOWN AND A BOTTLE
       XI. TWO GIRLS AND A CALF
      XII. TO EAT WITH THE FAMILY
     XIII. DORA'S NEW MIND
      XIV. GOOD-NIGHT
       XV. MISS PANNEY IS AROUSED TO HELP AND HINDER
      XVI. "KEEP HER TO HELP YOU"
     XVII. JUDITH PACEWALK'S TEABERRY GOWN
    XVIII. BLARNEY FLUFF
      XIX. MISS PANNEY IS "TOOK SUDDEN"
       XX. THE TEABERRY GOWN IS TOO LARGE
      XXI. THE DRANES AND THEIR QUARTERS
     XXII. A TRESPASS
    XXIII. THE HAVERLEY FINANCES AND MRS. ROBINSON
     XXIV. THE DOCTOR'S MISSION
      XXV. BOMBSHELLS AND BROMIDE
     XXVI. DORA COMES AND SEES
    XXVII. "IT COULDN'T BE BETTER THAN THAT"
   XXVIII. THE GAME IS CALLED
     XXIX. HYPOTHESIS AND INNUENDO
      XXX. A CONFIDENTIAL ANNOUNCEMENT
     XXXI. THE TEABERRY GOWN IS DONNED
    XXXII. MISS PANNEY FEELS SHE MUST CHANGE HER PLANS
   XXXIII. LA FLEUR LOOKS FUTUREWARD
    XXXIV. A PLAN WHICH SEEMS TO SUIT EVERYBODY
     XXXV. 

"Did you see him for so loved, Anne Lena?"

She sat up and looked at me as if it needed to meditate on this question. Then she said slowly:
"I do not know it - that's all the same."

I stayed a while with her, and she gradually became calmer. You promised
me courage to take me and our mother's sake, she wanted to work, they
wanted in the small business the old Wieb the initial learning of
the state budget so that it once as a housekeeper can earn their bread.
 His wife was delighted
to see him; he had not been at home since noon of the preceding day.

"Yes," said he, as he took off his gloves and overcoat, "the Pardell boy is better, but I found
him in a desperate condition."

"I knew that," said Mrs. Tolbridge, "when you told me in your note that you would be obliged
to stay with him all night."

The doctor now walked into his study, changed his overcoat for a well-worn smoking-jacket,
and seated himself in an easy chair before the fire. His wife sat by him.

"Thank you," he said, in answer to her inquiries, "but I do not want anything to eat. After
I had gone my round this morning I went back to the Pardells, and had my dinner there. The
boy is doing very well. No, I was not up all night. I had some hours' sleep on the big sofa."

"Which doesn't count for much," said his wife.

"It counts for some hours," he replied, "and Mrs. Pardell did not sleep at all."

Dr. Tolbridge, a man of moderate height, and compactly built, with some touches of gray in
his full, short beard, and all the light of youth in his blue eyes, had been for years the
leading physician in and about Thorbury. He lived on the outskirts of the little town, but
the lines of his practice extended in every direction into the surrounding country.

The doctor's wife was younger than he was; she had a high opinion of him, and had learned to
diagnose him, mentally, morally, and physically, with considerable correctness. It may be asserted,
in fact, that the doctor seldom made a diagnosis of a patient as exact as those she made of
him. But then it must be remembered that she had only one person to exert her skill upon, while
he had many.

The Tolbridge house was one of the best in the town, but the family was small. There was but
one child, a boy of fourteen, who was now away at school. The doctor had readjusted the logs
upon the andirons, and was just putting the tongs in their place when a maidservant came in.

"There's a boy here, sir," she said, "from Miss Panney. She's sent for you in a hurry."

In the same instant the doctor and his wife turned in their chairs and fixed their eyes upon
the servant, but there was nothing remarkable about her; she had delivered her message and
stood waiting. The doctor's fists were clenched and there was a glitter in his eye. He seemed
on the point of saying something in a loud voice, but he changed his mind, and quietly said,
"Tell the boy to come here," and turned back to the fire. Then, when the girl had gone, he
struck his fist upon his knee and ejaculated, "Confound Miss Panney!"

"Harry!" exclaimed his wife, "you should not speak of your patients in that way, but I agree
with you perfectly;" and then, addressing the boy, who had just entered, and who stood by the
door, "Do you mean to say that there is anything serious the matter with Miss Panney?" she
said severely. "Does she really want to see the doctor immediately?"

"That's what they told me, ma'am," said the boy, looking about him at the books and the furniture.
"They told me that she was took bad, and that I must come here first to tell the doctor to
come right away, and if he wasn't at home to leave that message."

"How did you come?" asked Mrs. Tolbridge; "on horseback?"

"No, ma'am; with a wagon."

"You could have come a great deal quicker without the wagon," said she.

"Oh, yes, but then I've got to stop at the store going back."

"That will do," said Mrs. Tolbridge; "you can go now and attend to your other business."

The doctor was quietly looking into the fire, and as his wife turned to him he gave a little snort.

"I was just beginning to get up enough energy," he remarked, "to think of putting on my slippers."

"Well, put them on," said she, in a very decided tone.

"No," replied the doctor, "that will not do; of course I must go to her."

"You mustn't do anything of the kind!" exclaimed Mrs. Tolbridge, her eyes sparkling. "How many
times by night and by day has that woman called you away on a fool's errand? It is likely as
not that there is nothing more the matter with her than there is with me. She has no right
to worry the life out of you in this way. She ought to have gone to heaven long ago."

"You shouldn't talk of my patients in that way, Kitty," said the doctor; "and in the opinion
of a good many of her neighbors the old lady is not bound for heaven."

"I don't care where she is going, but one thing is certain: you are not going to her this afternoon.
You are not fit for it." After a while I noticed a man coming down on the side of the dike and go to meet
us on the paths. It was the postman who twice for a week the farm owner's letters from the
city took. I felt like Anne Lene hastened her steps, When he came near us. "Do you have something
for me, Carsten?" she asked, searching in her voice in vain to conceal an inner restlessness.

The
messenger flipped around in his leather bag between the letters.

"For this time not dear lady, "he finally said with an embarrassed friendliness by the repealed
Flap dropped again over his bag. He liked that answer has often been have. Anne Lene silent for
a moment. "It's good, Carsten," said she, "you can first go with us and eat dinner "- you seemed
to have reached their migration destination.; for they repented at the words, and we went with
the messenger back to the court. Dusk had already fallen considerably. From the Ackerstueck on which
we passed, one heard the sounds of short Brachvoegel that lay hidden in the furrows, and sometimes
Lapwing flew screaming in front of us, and in the pastures the cattle stood in the dark, unrecognizable
Masses together .-- We were on the way back, as it is done in agreement, not a word another
change, and as we were already reached in the dark on the hill, took Anne Lene my hand. "Good night,
Marx" she said, "forgive me, I'm tired, I must sleep, you know, you come very soon once again
out to us "with these words! they came in the front door, and soon I heard she went up the stairs
to her room.

I went to the old courtiers, in the company of the messenger in the
oven for her Evening tea sat.

Wieb away for a moment to bring up a light Anne Lene; then they forced me to participate in their
meal, and I had to tell and tell . Let About it, it was getting late, so I did not go back to the city.
I asked my old friend, aufzuschuetten me a stray in her room, and strolled While this was happening,
out into the garden.
 Then he arose, put on his
slippers, drew up the soft cushioned sofa, and lay down for a nap.

In about half an hour he was aroused by the announcement that Miss Bannister had called to see him.

Long practice in that sort of thing made him wake in an instant, and the young lady who was
ushered into the study had no idea that she had disturbed the nap of a tired man. She was a
very pretty girl, handsomely dressed; she had large blue eyes, and a very gentle and sweet
expression, tinged, however, by an anxious sadness.

"Who is sick, Miss Dora?" asked the doctor, quickly, as he shook hands with her.

She did not seem to understand him. "Nobody," she said. "That is, I have come to see you about
myself."

"Oh," said he, "pray take a seat. I imagined from your face," he continued, with a smile, "that
some one of your family was in desperate need of a doctor."

"No," said she, "it is I. For a long time I have thought of consulting you, and to-day I felt
I must come."

"And what is the matter?" he asked.

"Doctor," said she, a tear forcing itself into each of her beautiful eyes, "I believe I am
losing my mind."

"Indeed," said the doctor; "and how is your general health?"

"Oh, that's all right," answered Miss Dora. "I do not think there is the least thing the matter
with me that way. It is all my mind. It has been failing me for a good while."

"How?" he asked. "What are the symptoms?"

"Oh, there are ever so many of them," she said; "I can't think of them all. I have lost all
interest in everything in this world. You remember how much interest I used to take in things?"

"Indeed I do," said he.

"The world is getting to be all a blank to me," she said; "everything is blank."

"Your meals?" he asked.

"No," she said. "Of course I must eat to live."

"And sleep?"

"Oh, I sleep well enough. Indeed, I wish I could sleep all the time, so that I could not know
how the world--at least its pleasures and affections--are passing away from me. All this is
dreadful, doctor, when you come to think of it. I have thought and thought and thought about
it, until it has become perfectly plain to me that I am losing my mind."

Dr. Tolbridge looked into the fire.

"Well," said he, presently, "I am glad to hear it."

Miss Dora sprang to her feet.

"Oh, sit down," said he, "and let me explain myself. My advice is, if you lose your mind, don't
mind the loss. It really will do you good. That sounds hard and cruel, doesn't it? But wait
a bit. It often happens that the minds of young people are like their first teeth--what are
called milk teeth, you know. These minds and these teeth do very well for a time, but after
a while they become unable to perform the services which will be demanded of them, and they
are shed, or at least they ought to be. Sometimes, of course, they have to be extracted."

"Nonsense, doctor," said the young lady, smiling in spite of herself, "you cannot extract a mind."

"Well, perhaps not exactly that," he answered, "but we can help it to be absorbed and to disappear,
and so make a way for the strong, vigorous mind of maturity, which is certain to succeed it.
All this has happened and is happening to you, Miss Dora. You have lost your milk mind, and
the sooner it is gone the better. You will be delighted with the one that succeeds it. Now
then, can you give me an idea about how angry you are?"

"I am not angry at all," she replied, "but I feel humiliated. You think my mental sufferings
are all fanciful."

"Oh, no," said the doctor; "to continue the dental simile, they are the last aches of your
youthful mentality, forced to make way for the intellect of a woman."

Miss Bannister looked out of the window for a few moments.

"Doctor," she then said, "I do not believe there is any one else who knows me, who would tell
me that I have the mind of a child."

"Oh, no," replied Dr. Tolbridge, "for it is not likely that there is any one else to whom you
have made the fact known."

There was a quick flush on the face of Miss Dora, and a flash in her blue eyes, and she reached
out her hand toward her muff which lay on the table beside her, but she changed her purpose
and drew back her hand. The doctor looked at her with a smile.

"You were just on the point of jumping up and leaving the room without a word, weren't you?"

"Yes, I was," said she, "and I have a great mind to do it now, but first I must--"

"Miss Dora," said the doctor, "I am delighted. Actually you are cutting your new mind. Before
you can realize the fact, you will have it all full-formed and ready for use. Let me see; this
is the ninth of March; bad roads; bad weather; no walking; no driving; nothing inspiriting;
disagreeable in doors and out. I think the full change will occur within three weeks. By the
end of this month, you will not only have forgotten that your milk mind has troubled you, but
that the world was ever blank, and that your joys and affections were ever on the point of
passing away from you. You will then be the brave-hearted, bright-spirited woman that Nature
intended you to be, after she had passed you through some of the preliminary stages."

The flush on the face of Miss Dora gradually passed away as she listened to this speech.

She rose. "Doctor," said she, "I like that better than what you have been saying. Anyway, I
shall not be angry, and I shall wait three weeks and see what happens, and if everything is
all wrong then, the responsibility will rest on you."

"Very good," said he, "I agree to the terms. It is a bargain."

Now Miss Dora seemed troubled again. She took up her muff, put it down, drew her furs about
her, then let them fall again, and finally turned toward the physician, who had also risen.

"Doctor," she said, "I don't want you to put this visit in the family bill. I wish to--to attend
to it myself. How much should I pay you?" and she took out her little pocketbook.

Dr. Tolbridge put his hands behind him.

"This case is out of my usual line of practice," he said, "and my ordinary schedule of fees
does not apply to it. For advice such as I have given you I never charge money. I take nothing
but cats."

"What!" exclaimed Miss Dora; "what on earth do you mean?"

"I mean cats," he replied, "or rather kittens. I am very fond of kittens, and at present we
have not one in the house. So, if you have a kitten--"

"Dr. Tolbridge," cried Miss Dora, her eyes sparkling, "do you really mean that? Would you truly
like to have an Angora kitten?"

"That is exactly the breed I want," he answered.

"Why, I have five," she said; "they are only four days old, and perfect beauties. I shall be
charmed to give you one, and I will pick out the very prettiest for you. As soon as it is old
enough, I will bring it to you, already named, and with a ribbon on its neck. What color would
you like the ribbon to be?"

"For Angoras, blue," he said; "I shall be so glad to have a kitten like that; but remember
that you must not bring it to me until its eyes are opened, and it has--"

"Doctor," interrupted Miss Dora, raising her forefinger, "you were just on the point of saying,
'and has shed its milk mind.' Now I am going away before you make me angry again."

When his patient had gone, Dr. Tolbridge put another log on the fire, shook up the cushions
of the sofa, and lay down to continue his nap.

CHAPTER II

MISS PANNEY

The Witton family, distant relatives of Miss Panney, with whom she had lived for many years,
resided on a farm in the hilly country above Thorbury, and when Mrs. Tolbridge had rattled
through the town, she found the country road very rough and bad--hard and bumpy in some places,
and soft and muddy in others; but Buckskin was in fine spirits and pulled her bravely on.

When she reached the Witton house she left the horse in charge of the boy, and opening the
hall door, went directly up to Miss Panney's room. Knocking, she waited some little time for
an answer, and then was told, in a clear, high voice, to come in. The room was large and well
lighted. Against one of the walls stood a high-posted bed with a canopy, and on one of the
pillows of the bed appeared the head of an elderly woman, the skin darkened and wrinkled by
time, the nose aquiline, and the black eyes very sharp and quick of movement. This head was
surrounded by the frills of a freshly laundered night-cap, and the smooth white coverlid was
drawn up close under its chin.

"Upon my word," exclaimed the person in the bed, "is that you, Mrs. Tolbridge? I thought it
was the doctor."

"I don't wonder at that, Miss Panney," said Mrs. Tolbridge. "At times we have very much the
same sort of knock."

"But where is the doctor?" asked the old lady.

"I hope he is at home and asleep," was the reply. "He has been working very hard lately, and
was up the greater part of last night. He was coming here when he received your message, but
I told him he should not do it; I would come myself, and if I found it absolutely necessary
that you should see him, I would let him know. And now what is the trouble, Miss Panney?"

Miss Panney fixed her eyes steadfastly upon her visitor, who had taken a seat by the bedside.

"Catherine Tolbridge," said she, "do you know what will happen to you, if you don't look out?
You'll lose that man."

"Lose him!" exclaimed the other.

"Yes, just that," replied the old lady; "I have seen it over and over again. Down they drop,
right in the middle of their harness. And the stouter and sturdier they are, the worse it is
for them; they think they can do anything, and they do it. I'll back a skinny doctor against
a burly one, any day. He knows there are things he can't do. He doesn't try, and he keeps afloat."

"That is exactly what I am trying to do," said the doctor's wife, "and if those are your opinions,
Miss Panney, don't you think that the doctor's patients ought to have a regard for his health,
and that they ought not to make him come to them in all sorts of weather, and at all hours
of the day, unless there is something serious the matter with them? Now I don't believe there
is anything serious the matter with you today."

"There is always something serious the matter with a person of my age," said Miss Panney, "and
as for Dr. Tolbridge's visits to me doing him any harm, it is all stuff and nonsense. They
do him good; they rest him; they brighten him up. He's never livelier than when he is with
me. He doesn't have to hang over me all the night, giving me this and that, to keep the breath
in my body, when he ought to be taking the rest that he needs more than any of us."

Mrs. Tolbridge laughed. "No, indeed," said she, "he never has to do anything of that kind for
you. I believe you are the healthiest patient he has."

