STUDIES IN SPERMATOGENESIS

PART II.

(PAGES 33-74. PLATES VIII-XV.)

A COMPARATIVE STUDY OF THE HETEROCHROMOSOMES IN CERTAIN SPECIES OF COLEOPTERA, HEMIPTERA AND
LEPIDOPTERA, WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO

SEX DETERMINATION.

BY N. M. STEVENS

WASHINGTON, D. C.: Published by the Carnegie Institution of Washington October, 1906

CARNEGIE INSTITUTION OF WASHINGTON

PUBLICATION NO. 36, PART II.

FROM THE PRESS OF THE WILKENS-SHEIRY PRINTING CO. WASHINGTON, D. C.

STUDIES IN SPERMATOGENESIS.--II.

INTRODUCTION.

In Part I of this series of papers, the spermatogenesis of five species belonging to four different
orders of insects was considered. In two species of Orthoptera an "accessory chromosome" was
found; in Tenebrio molitor, one of the Coleoptera, an unequal pair of chromosomes was described;
in the other species no heterochromosomes were discovered. The apparent bearing of the chromosome
conditions in Tenebrio molitor on the problem of sex determination has led to a further investigation
of the germ cells of the Coleoptera. One of the Hemiptera homoptera and two of the Lepidoptera
have also been examined for comparison with the Coleoptera and the Hemiptera heteroptera.

METHODS.

As a result of previous experience with similar material, only two general methods of fixing
and staining have been employed: (1) Fixation in Flemming's strong solution or Hermann's platino-aceto-osmic,
followed by either Heidenhain's iron-hæmatoxylin or Hermann's safranin-gentian staining method
(Arch. f. mikr. Anat. 1889). (2) Fixation after Gilson's mercuro-nitric formula, followed by
iron-hæmatoxylin, Delafield's hæmatoxylin and orange G, Auerbach's combination of methyl green
and acid fuchsin, or thionin.

The iron-hæmatoxylin with either mode of fixation gives by far the most satisfactory preparations
for general study. The other stains were used mainly for the purpose of distinguishing between
heterochromosomes and plasmosomes in resting stages of the nucleus.

COLEOPTERA.

Trirhabda virgata (Family Chrysomelidæ).

Two species of Trirhabda were found in larval, pupal, and adult stage on Solidago sempervirens,
one at Harpswell, Maine, the other at Woods Hole, Massachusetts. The adult insects of the two
species differ slightly in size and color, the germ cells mainly in the number of chromosomes,
Trirhabda virgata having 28 and Trirhabda canadense 30 in spermatogonia and somatic cells.

In Trirhabda virgata, the metaphase of a spermatogonial mitosis (plate VIII, fig. 3) contains
28 chromosomes, one of which, as in Tenebrio molitor is very much smaller than any of the others.
The maternal homologue of the small chromosome is, as later stages show, one of the largest
chromosomes. In Tenebrio the unequal pair could not be distinguished in the growth stages of
the spermatocytes. In Trirhabda it has not been detected in the synizesis stage (fig. 4), but
in the later growth stages (figs. 5-7) this pair is conspicuous in preparations stained by
the various methods cited above, while the spireme is pale and inconspicuous. The size of the
heterochromosome pair varies considerably at different times in the growth period, and in some
nuclei (fig. 7) both chromosomes appear to be attached to a plasmosome. The ordinary chromosomes
assume the form of rings and crosses in the prophase of the first maturation mitosis (fig.
8), but usually appear in the spindle as dumb-bells or occasionally as tetrads (fig. 10), or
crosses (fig. 11). The unsymmetrical pair is plainly seen in figures 9 and 11, but is not distinguishable
in a polar view of the metaphase (fig. 13). In the anaphase (figs. 14-16) the larger and the
smaller components of the pair separate as in Tenebrio. This is, therefore, clearly a reducing
division as far as this pair is concerned, and probably for all of the other pairs, though
neither the synapsis stage nor the prophase forms are so clear on this point as in some of
the other species studied. Figures 17 and 18 show metaphases of the two classes of second spermatocytes,
the chromosomes varying somewhat in form in different preparations and even in different cysts
of the same preparation. An early anaphase of this mitosis is shown in figure 19; here the
small chromosome is already divided. It was impossible to find good polar views of the daughter
plates in the two classes of second spermatocytes, but it is evident from figure 19 and other
similar views of the second spermatocyte spindle that, as in Tenebrio, one-half of the spermatids
will contain one of the derivatives of the small chromosome, the other half one of the products
of its larger homologue.

Sections of male pupæ were examined for equatorial plates of somatic mitoses. Figure 1 is a
specimen of such plates. As might be expected, this figure resembles quite closely the spermatogonial
equatorial plate (fig. 3) in number, form, and size of chromosomes, the small one being present
in both. Figure 2 is from the follicle of a young egg; here we find 28 chromosomes, but no
small one. The chromosome corresponding to the larger member of the unequal pair in the male
evidently has a homologue of equal size in the female. The chromosome relations in the male
and female somatic cells are therefore the same as in Tenebrio molitor, and must have been
brought about by the development of a male from an egg fertilized by a spermatozoön containing
the small chromosome, and a female from an egg fertilized by a spermatozoön containing the
larger heterochromosome.

Trirhabda canadense.

In Trirhabda canadense the spermatogonial chromosomes are invariably smaller than in T. virgata,
but similar size relations prevail. The spermatogonial plate (fig. 21) contains 30 chromosomes,
29 large and 1 extremely small. In the growth stages the association of the two unequally paired
chromosomes with a rather large plasmosome is more evident than in T. virgata (figs. 22-23).
In this species the unequal pair is more often found at a different level from the other chromosomes
in the early metaphase of the first maturation mitosis (fig. 24), but it later comes into the
plate with the other chromosomes (figs. 25-27), and divides earlier than most of the other
bivalents (fig. 27). In a polar view of this metaphase the largest chromosome often appears
double (fig. 28); in a front view it is a tetrad as in T. virgata, figure 10. Figure 29 is
the equatorial plate of a metaphase in which the larger component of the unequal pair has been
removed in sectioning. The daughter plates of a first spermatocyte in anaphase (fig. 30) show
the separation of the components of the heterochromosome pair; and equatorial plates of the
resulting two classes of second spermatocytes (fig. 31) show the same conditions. Figures 32
and 33 are prophases of the second division, figure 33 showing the small chromosome ready for
metakinesis. It was impossible here also to get good drawings of daughter plates of the second
spermatocytes to show the content of the two classes of spermatozoa, but there is no doubt
that all of the chromosomes divide in the second mitosis, giving one class of spermatids containing
the small chromosome, the other class its larger homologue.

No male somatic cells were found in mitosis, but they would, if found, show the same conditions
as in the spermatogonia. One of many good equatorial plates from egg follicles (fig. 20) shows
30 large chromosomes, indicating an equal pair in place of the unequal pair of the male.

Chelymorpha argus (Family Chrysomelidæ).

This species was found in larval and adult stages on Convolvulus arvensis at Harpswell, Maine,
in July and August. It shows the same conditions as Trirhabda and Tenebrio, so far as the unequal
pair of chromosomes is concerned, and is especially favorable for study of synapsis stages.
The number of chromosomes in the spermatogonia (plate IX, fig. 36) is 22. Here the components
of the unequal pair are the small spherical chromosome and one of the several chromosomes third
in size, forming a comparatively small unsymmetrical bivalent (figs. 47-49). The spermatogonia
occupy the outer end of each follicle, and next to them comes a layer of cysts in which the
chromosomes from the last spermatogonial division are closely massed in the form of short deeply
staining loops at one side of the nuclear space (fig. 37). Following this synizesis stage comes
one in which some of the short loops have straightened, their free ends extending out into
the nuclear space (figs. 38 and 39). Figure 40 shows the nucleus of a slightly later stage
in which the free ends of two straightened chromosomes are on the point of uniting. In figures
41 and 42 the point of union of homologous chromosomes is indicated in some cases by a knob,
in others by a sharply acute angle. In a slightly later stage (fig. 43), when all of the short
loops have straightened and united in pairs, the point of union is no longer visible, all of
the loops being rounded at the bend and of equal thickness throughout. My attention was first
called to this method of synapsis by the conspicuous difference in number and length of loops
in the synizesis stage compared with the later bouquet stage just before the spireme is formed.
Following the synapsis stage shown in figure 43 comes one in which the loops lose their polarized
arrangement and unite to form a continuous spireme (figs. 44 and 45). In this form, the heterochromosome
pair could not be distinguished until the spireme stage, and it is, therefore, uncertain whether
these chromosomes remain condensed after the last spermatogonial divisions and are hidden among
the massed and deeply staining loops of the synizesis and synapsis stages, or whether they
pass through the same synaptic phases as the other chromosomes, condensing and remaining isolated
at the beginning of the spireme stage. An early prophase of the first maturation mitosis (fig.
46) shows segments of the spireme longitudinally split, and in some cases transformed into
crosses which show a transverse division also. Most of the equal bivalents have the dumb-bell
form in the spindle (figs. 47-49). One is ring-shaped, the ring being formed by union of the
free ends of the segment so that the spindle fibers are attached to the middle of each univalent
chromosome (fig. 49). This method of ring formation, like that described by Montgomery ('03)
for the Amphibia, is of very frequent occurrence in the spermatocytes of the Coleoptera. The
dumb-bells are so bent at the ends (fig. 52) that the spindle fibers, here also, are attached
at or near the center of each univalent component of a bivalent chromosome, and the separated,
univalent chromosomes go to the poles of the spindle in the form of Vs. As in Tenebrio the
heterochromosome pair is late about coming into the equatorial plate (figs. 47-48), but it
does finally take its position with the others (fig. 49) and separates into its component parts
somewhat earlier than the other bivalents (figs. 52, 53). Figures 50 and 51 show polar views
of the metaphase, the smaller element (x) being the unequal pair. The chromosomes in late anaphase
are too much crowded to give clear drawings. As in all the beetles so far studied there is
no rest stage between the two maturation divisions, but the late anaphase of the first mitosis
passes over quickly into the second spindle. Figures 54 and 55 are typical equatorial plates
of the second division, one showing the small chromosome (s), the other its mate more nearly
spherical than the others (l). An anaphase including the small chromosome is shown in figure
56. As in the species previously described the spermatozoa are evidently dimorphic.

Female somatic equatorial plates from egg follicles are shown in figures 34 and 35; 22 chromosomes
are present and no one is without an equal mate.

Odontota dorsalis (Family Chrysomelidæ).

Odontota dorsalis is a small leaf-beetle found on Robinia pseudacacia. The chromosomes are
comparatively few in number, 16 in the spermatogonia (figs. 58 and 59), and of immense size
when one considers the smallness of the beetle. In some of the spermatogonial cysts many of
the chromosomes are V-shaped as in figure 58, while in others all, with the exception of the
small one, are rod-shaped as in figure 59, which looks like a hemipteran equatorial plate.
The spermatogonial resting nucleus (fig. 60) contains a large plasmosome (p), but no condensed
chromatin. The synizesis and synapsis stages are similar to those in Chelymorpha (figs. 61
and 62). The spireme stage (figs. 63, 64) contains, in addition to the pale spireme, a very
conspicuous group consisting of a large plasmosome with a large and a small chromosome attached
to it. In the prophase, before the nuclear membrane has disappeared, this group is easily distinguished
from the other dumb-bell and ring-shaped bivalents (figs. 65-67). In preparations much destained
(fig. 67) the small chromosome component of the group retains the stain longer than the larger
one. The spindle in prophase (fig. 68) is much elongated and the 8 chromosomes are often spread
out upon it so as to be easily counted. In the early metaphase the parachute-like heterochromosome
group is always nearer one pole of the spindle (plate X, figs. 69 and 70). The equatorial plate
often shows both the larger component of the pair and the plasmosome (fig. 71). Figures 72-74
show the metakinesis of the heterochromosome bivalent. In figure 74 the two unequal elements
are completely separated and the plasmosome has disappeared. The equatorial plates of the two
resulting kinds of second spermatocytes appear in figures 75 and 76. In the anaphase of the
second division all of the chromosomes are divided quantitatively as may be seen in figures
77 and 78. A few dividing male somatic cells were found in the walls of the testis. Figure
57 (plate IX) is an equatorial plate from one of these. The chromosomes are like those of the
spermatogonia (figs. 58 and 59), 15 large and 1 small. No dividing female somatic cells were found.

A few drawings of developing spermatids are given to show the transformations of a peculiar
body which seems to be characteristic of insect spermatids. Figure 79 is a very young spermatid
showing only diffuse chromatin in the nucleus. The nucleus soon enlarges (fig. 80) and a large
dense body (n) appears which stains like chromatin with various staining media. A little later
(fig. 81) the chromatin forms a homogeneous, more or less hemispherical or sometimes crescent-shaped
mass which stains an even gray in iron-hæmatoxylin. In addition the nucleus contains a body
(n) smaller than in the preceding stage, but staining the same. As the nucleus condenses and
elongates to form the sperm head, a light region containing this deeply staining body is seen
on one side (figs. 82, 83). A little later the body is divided into two, which appear sometimes
spherical (fig. 84), sometimes elongated (fig. 85). As the sperm head elongates still more,
approaching maturity, these bodies diminish in size (figs. 86, 87) and ultimately disappear.
A cross section of the sperm head at such a stage as figure 87 shows the chromatin in crescent
shape with material which stains very little within (fig. 88). The chromatin-like body described
above was observed in Tenebrio in a stage corresponding to figure 81, and it was thought that
the larger body seen in some cases and the smaller one in others might be the larger and smaller
heterochromosomes, but a study of this element in more favorable material disproves that supposition
by showing that the different sizes are merely different phases in the evolution of the body.
Throughout its history it stains like dense chromatin, and my only suggestion as to its origin
is that it seems, from a study of this and other species of beetles, to be a derivative of
the chromatin of the spermatid, increasing in size for a time, then decreasing, and finally
breaking up into granules and dissolving in the karyolymph. Whether it has any function connected
with the development of the spermatozoön, or whether it is merely material rejected from the
chromosomes, as in many cases in oögenesis, one can only surmise.

In one testis a peculiar abnormality was found. In all of the perfect spermatogonial plates
two small chromosomes were present (figs. 89, 90). Nineteen such plates were counted in five
different cysts. All of the equatorial plates of the first spermatocytes showed 8 chromosomes,
as usual. In a few favorable growth stages (fig. 91) the two small chromosomes were seen to
be combined with the larger heterochromosome and a plasmosome, and one first spermatocyte spindle
was found in which the same combination could be clearly seen (fig. 92). All of the second
spermatocyte metaphases in which a small chromosome occurred, contained two small ones, making
9 in all (fig. 93). The others contained 8 large chromosomes, as usual. The only explanation
suggested by the conditions is that somewhere in its history, the small chromosome had undergone
an extra division, and that ever afterward the two products behaved like the one small heterochromosome
of a normal individual. The chief interest in this abnormality centers in the fact that the
two small chromosomes of this specimen behave exactly like the usual single one, emphasizing
the individuality of this particular heterochromosome. Both evidently have the same individual
characteristics and affinities as the one in other cases.

Epilachna borealis (Family Coccinellidæ).

Epilachna borealis was found in abundance on squash vines at Woods Hole, Massachusetts, in
September. The testes, unlike those of most of the Coleoptera, consist of many free follicles
similar to those of the Orthoptera. The germ glands were rather far advanced, but some good
spermatogonial and spermatocyte cysts were found. In figure 94, a spermatogonial metaphase,
the small chromosome is shown with 17 larger ones. The heterochromosome pair appears in condensed
form in the spireme stage (fig. 95), and again in the first maturation spindle (figs. 96, 97).
The varying forms of the ordinary chromosomes are shown in figure 98. Figures 99 and 100 are
equatorial plates of the first mitosis. The unequal pair is shown by itself in figure 101,
and the separation of the heterochromosomes is seen in figure 102. Equatorial plates of the
second division, one containing the small chromosome (b), are shown in figure 103. A prophase
of the same division (fig. 104) proves that the small chromosome divides quantitatively like
the others. It was interesting to find here and there in this material whole cysts in which
the nuclei were like those described by Paulmier ('99) for Anasa tristis (plate XIII, fig.
14) as cells which were being transformed to serve as food for the glowing spermatids (figs.
105, 106). The only occasional appearance of these cysts seems to me to preclude their being
a special dispensation to furnish the spermatids with nutrition during their transformation.
Their appearance and size make me suspect that they are giant spermatids due to the failure
of one of the spermatogonial or spermatocyte mitoses. The smaller chromatin body seems to correspond
to that described for the spermatids of Odontota dorsalis.

Euphoria inda (Family Scarabæidæ).

Of Euphoria inda only one male was captured, but the numerous testes furnished abundant material
in desirable stages. The spermatogonial equatorial plate (fig. 107) contains 20 chromosomes
of which the two smallest (l and s) form the unequal pair. The resting spermatogonium contains
a two-lobed plasmosome (fig. 108). The growth stages are similar to those in Tenebrio in showing
no distinct bouquet stage, but there is a spireme stage in which the heterochromosome pair
is clearly seen (fig. 109). Figure 110 (plate XI) is an early prophase, and figure 111 one
in which the unequal pair appears with a tetrad and several dumb-bell forms. The prophase of
the spindle, as in Odontota, is much elongated (fig. 112). In figures 113-116 the small heterochromosome
pair is shown in various positions with reference to the other chromosomes of the metaphase
of the first spermatocyte. Figure 117 shows it more deeply stained than the others in the equatorial
plate. This pair divides in advance of the others, and the larger and smaller elements are
plainly seen nearer the poles in anaphase than the other univalent chromosomes (figs. 118-120).
Daughter plates of the first spermatocyte are shown in figure 121, and equatorial plates of
the second spermatocyte in figure 123. Figure 122 shows the telophase of the first division
with the spindle for the second division forming. In figures 124 and 125 we have daughter plates
of the two classes of second spermatocytes, showing the content of the two equal classes of
dimorphic spermatozoa, as this was shown in Tenebrio. Figures 126 and 127 are anaphases showing
the division of the heterochromosomes (l and s). Figures 128-130 are early stages in the development
of the spermatid showing the chromatin nucleolus (n) in various phases.

Blepharida rhois (Family Chrysomelidæ).

The testes were rather too far advanced when this material was collected and no dividing spermatogonia
were present. The growth stages (figs. 131, 132) show a faintly staining spireme and a heterochromosome
group similar to that of Odontota, a large and a small chromosome attached to a large plasmosome.
The spireme appears to go directly over by condensation and segmentation into the dumb-bell-shaped
figures seen in the first maturation spindle (figs. 133, 134), though cross-shaped bivalents
occasionally occur (fig. 135). The heterochromosome pair, slightly separated by plasmosome
material, is usually found at the periphery of the plate (figs. 133-136). Figure 137 is an
exceptional anaphase in which the heterochromosome elements are not mingled with the polar
masses of chromatin. Figures 138 a and b are equatorial plates of the second mitosis, and figures
139 and 140 are pairs of daughter plates from second spermatocytes showing again the dimorphism
of the spermatozoa as to their chromatin content. As in several of the forms studied, material
was collected for examination of the somatic cells, but no favorable cases of mitosis were
to be found.

Silpha americana (Family Silphidæ).

