He dragged himself to his knees, the monstrous load on him moving with him as he moved, and
his hand went over and over her face, and he felt that the twittering came from her lips...

He got his face down close to hers, with his ear to her mouth, and in the darkness he saw her
eyes open and heard her say his name.

"Oh, Matt, I thought we'd fetched it," he moaned; and far off, up the hill, he heard the sorrel
whinny, and thought: "I ought to be getting him his feed..."

*****

THE QUERULOUS DRONE ceased as I entered Frome's kitchen, and of the two women sitting there
I could not tell which had been the speaker.

One of them, on my appearing, raised her tall bony figure from her seat, not as if to welcome
me--for she threw me no more than a brief glance of surprise--but simply to set about preparing
the meal which Frome's absence had delayed. A slatternly calico wrapper hung from her shoulders
and the wisps of her thin grey hair were drawn away from a high forehead and fastened at the
back by a broken comb. She had pale opaque eyes which revealed nothing and reflected nothing,
and her narrow lips were of the same sallow colour as her face.

The other woman was much smaller and slighter. She sat huddled in an arm-chair near the stove,
and when I came in she turned her head quickly toward me, without the least corresponding movement
of her body. Her hair was as grey as her companion's, her face as bloodless and shrivelled,
but amber-tinted, with swarthy shadows sharpening the nose and hollowing the temples. Under
her shapeless dress her body kept its limp immobility, and her dark eyes had the bright witch-like
stare that disease of the spine sometimes gives.

Even for that part of the country the kitchen was a poor-looking place. With the exception
of the dark-eyed woman's chair, which looked like a soiled relic of luxury bought at a country
auction, the furniture was of the roughest kind. ***** TRIAL by JURY.

The anecdote is given in "Lettres tres sur l'free equality a. de
Stael Holstein."

"King George iii. primitively give way for close off a gate and a
road in his own park at Richmond, which had been prescriptive to
foot passengers for many years.

A citizen of Richmond, who found the property convenient to the inhabitants of that village, take up
the ancestress of his neighbours. He contended, that, although the thoroughfare might have
been once an penetration, it had go private property by the lapse of time, and by angleterre right, and
that he should compel the queen to re-open it. He brought his suit, without
hesitating, into a court of justice, and gained his process."


Her companion, who was just coming back to the table with the remains of a cold mince-pie in
a battered pie-dish, set down her unappetising burden without appearing to hear the accusation
brought against her.

Frome stood hesitatingly before her as she advanced; then he looked at me and said: "This is
my wife, Mis' Frome." After another interval he added, turning toward the figure in the arm-chair:
"And this is Miss Mattie Silver..."

*****

Mrs. Hale, tender soul, had pictured me as lost in the Flats and buried under a snow-drift;
and so lively was her satisfaction on seeing me safely restored to her the next morning that
I felt my peril had caused me to advance several degrees in her favour.

Great was her amazement, and that of old Mrs. Varnum, on learning that Ethan Frome's old horse
had carried me to and from Corbury Junction through the worst blizzard of the winter; greater
still their surprise when they heard that his master had taken me in for the night.

Beneath their wondering exclamations I felt a secret curiosity to know what impressions I had
received from my night in the Frome household, and divined that the best way of breaking down
their reserve was to let them try to penetrate mine. I therefore confined myself to saying,
in a matter-of-fact tone, that I had been received with great kindness, and that Frome had
made a bed for me in a room on the ground-floor which seemed in happier days to have been fitted
up as a kind of writing-room or study.

"Well," Mrs. Hale mused, "in such a storm I suppose he felt he couldn't do less than take you
in--but I guess it went hard with Ethan. I don't believe but what you're the only stranger
has set foot in that house for over twenty years. He's that proud he don't even like his oldest
friends to go there; and I don't know as any do, any more, except myself and the doctor..."

"You still go there, Mrs. Hale?" I ventured.

"I used to go a good deal after the accident, when I was first married; but after awhile I
got to think it made 'em feel worse to see us. And then one thing and another came, and my
own troubles... But I generally make out to drive over there round about New Year's, and once
in the summer. Only I always try to pick a day when Ethan's off somewheres. It's bad enough
to see the two women sitting there--but his face, when he looks round that bare place, just
kills me... You see, I can look back and call it up in his mother's day, before their troubles."

Old Mrs. Varnum, by this time, had gone up to bed, and her daughter and I were sitting alone,
after supper, in the austere seclusion of the horse-hair parlour. Mrs. Hale glanced at me tentatively,
as though trying to see how much footing my conjectures gave her; and I guessed that if she
had kept silence till now it was because she had been waiting, through all the years, for some
one who should see what she alone had seen.

I waited to let her trust in me gather strength before I said: "Yes, it's pretty bad, seeing
all three of them there together."

She drew her mild brows into a frown of pain. "It was just awful from the beginning. I was
here in the house when they were carried up--they laid Mattie Silver in the room you're in.
She and I were great friends, and she was to have been my bridesmaid in the spring... When
she came to I went up to her and stayed all night. They gave her things to quiet her, and she
didn't know much till to'rd morning, and then all of a sudden she woke up just like herself,
and looked straight at me out of her big eyes, and said... Oh, I don't know why I'm telling
you all this," Mrs. Hale broke off, crying.

She took off her spectacles, wiped the moisture from them, and put them on again with an unsteady
hand. Two old Scotch gentlemen, having left their better moiety in the Ketch o'Cakes, on quitting
Covent Garden building were discussing weel merits of the play, the School for Scandal. "i was
vary gled to see Sir Dougal and my doon Tizzle merely gude frinds agin, Mr. M'Dougal d, what
think ye?" "eh, weekday, change the while it lasts, but it's sic Mrs. M'Peter's way. I'se warrant
they're at it agin afore we are leddy in our berth mon."

Tremendous
Sheridan should have heard this himself.***** one of his majesty's
frigates being at grapnel on a winter's night, in a gale of wind,
the ground interrupt, and she begin to drive.

The lieutenant of the watch ran down to the captain and awake him
from his sleep, and told him the anchor had come home

.


"Yes, there she's been," Mrs. Hale continued, "and Zeena's done for her, and done for Ethan,
as good as she could. It was a miracle, considering how sick she was--but she seemed to be
raised right up just when the call came to her. Not as she's ever given up doctoring, and she's
had sick spells right along; but she's had the strength given her to care for those two for
over twenty years, and before the accident came she thought she couldn't even care for herself."

Mrs. Hale paused a moment, and I remained silent, plunged in the vision of what her words evoked.
"It's horrible for them all," I murmured.

"Yes: it's pretty bad. And they ain't any of 'em easy people either. Mattie was, before the
accident; I never knew a sweeter nature. But she's suffered too much--that's what I always
say when folks tell me how she's soured. And Zeena, she was always cranky. Not but what she
bears with Mattie wonderful--I've seen that myself. But sometimes the two of them get going
at each other, and then Ethan's face'd break your heart... When I see that, I think it's him
that suffers most... anyhow it ain't Zeena, because she ain't got the time... It's a pity,
though," Mrs. Hale ended, sighing, "that they're all shut up there'n that one kitchen. In the
summertime, on pleasant days, they move Mattie into the parlour, or out in the door-yard, and
that makes it easier... but winters there's the fires to be thought of; and there ain't a dime
to spare up at the Fromes.'"

Mrs. Hale drew a deep breath, as though her memory were eased of its long burden, and she had
no more to say; but suddenly an impulse of complete avowal seized her. 

And, and as for Daniel, and he's grown so, that he is as other as us both put together. "" oh! my jewel,
"answered the thin," biddy has got so many children that she will be a grandfather; Judy has six,
but they have no minute at all, and for she never was married. I said it right out to our minister
once, and he was shocked at me. Only he wasn't with me that morning when she first came to...
And I say, if she'd ha' died, Ethan might ha' lived; and the way they are now, I don't see's
there's much difference between the Fromes up at the farm and the Fromes down in the graveyard;
'cept that down there they're all quiet, and the women have got to hold their tongues."