My niece Liddy is now happily settled for life; and captain Lismahago has taken Tabby off my
hands; so that I have nothing further to do, but to comfort my friend Baynard, and provide
for my son Loyd, who is also fairly joined to Mrs Winifred Jenkins. You are an excellent genius
at hints. -- Dr Arbuthnot was but a type of Dr Lewis in that respect. What you observe of the
vestry-clerk deserves consideration. -- I make no doubt but Matthew Loyd is well enough qualified
for the office; but, at present, you must find room for him in the house. -- His incorruptible
honesty and indefatigable care will be serviceable in superintending the oeconomy of my farm;
tho' I don't mean that he shall interfere with Barns, of whom I have no cause to complain.
-- I am just returned with Baynard, from a second trip to his house, where every thing is regulated
to his satisfaction. -- He could not, however, review the apartments without tears and lamentation,
so that he is not yet in a condition to be left alone; therefore I will not part with him till
the spring, when he intends to plunge into the avocations of husbandry, which will at once
employ and amuse his attention. -- Charles Dennison has promised to stay with him a fortnight,
to set him fairly afloat in his improvements; and Jack Wilson will see him from time to time;
besides, he has a few friends in the country, whom his new plan of life will not exclude from
his society. -- In less than a year, I make no doubt, but he will find himself perfectly at
ease both in his mind and body, for the one had dangerously affected the other; and I shall
enjoy the exquisite pleasure of seeing my friend rescued from misery and contempt.

Mrs Willis being determined to return with her daughter, in a few days, to Gloucester, our
plan has undergone some alteration. Jery has persuaded his brother-in-law to carry his wife
to Bath; and I believe his parents will accompany him thither. -- For my part, I have no intention
to take that route. -- It must be something very extraordinary that will induce me to revisit
either Bath or London. -- My sister and her husband, Baynard and I, will take leave of them
at Gloucester, and make the best of our way to Brambleton hall, where I desire you will prepare
a good chine and turkey for our Christmas dinner. -- You must also employ your medical skill
in defending me from the attacks of the gout, that I may be in good case to receive the rest
of our company, who promise to visit us in their return from the Bath. -- As I have laid in
a considerable stock of health, it is to be hoped you will not have much trouble with me in
the way of physic, but I intend to work you on the side of exercise. -- I have got an excellent
fowling-piece from Mr Lismahago, who is a keen sportsman, and we shall take the heath in all
weathers. -- That this scheme of life may be prosecuted the more effectually, I intend to renounce
all sedentary amusements, particularly that of writing long letters; a resolution, which, had
I taken it sooner, might have saved you the trouble which you have lately taken in reading
the tedious epistles of

MATT. BRAMBLE NOV. 20.

To Mrs GWYLLIM, at Brambleton-hall.

GOOD MRS GWYLLIM,

Heaven, for wise porpuses, hath ordained that I should change my name and citation in life,
so that I am not to be considered any more as manager of my brother's family; but as I cannot
surrender up my stewardship till I have settled with you and Williams, I desire you will get
your accunts ready for inspection, as we are coming home without further delay. -- My spouse,
the captain, being subject to rummaticks, I beg you will take great care to have the blew chamber,
up two pair of stairs, well warmed for his reception. -- Let the sashes be secured, the crevices
stopt, the carpets laid, and the beds well tousled. -- Mrs Loyd, late Jenkins, being married
to a relation of the family, cannot remain in the capacity of a sarvant; therefore, I wish
you would cast about for some creditable body to be with me in her room -- If she can spin,
and is mistress of plain-work, so much the better -- but she must not expect extravagant wages
-- having a family of my own, I must be more occumenical than ever. No more at present, but rests

Your loving friend, TAB. LISMAHAGO NOV. 20.

To Mrs MARY JONES, at Brambleton-hall.

MRS JONES,

Providinch hath bin pleased to make great halteration in the pasture of our affairs. -- We
were yesterday three kiple chined, by the grease of God, in the holy bands of mattermoney,
and I now subscrive myself Loyd at your sarvice. -- All the parish allowed that young 'squire
Dallison and his bride was a comely pear for to see. -- As for madam Lashtniheygo, you nose
her picklearities -- her head, to be sure, was fintastical; and her spouse had rapt her with
a long marokin furze cloak from the land of the selvidges, thof they say it is of immense bally.
-- The captain himself had a huge hassock of air, with three tails, and a tum- tawdry coat,
boddered with sulfur. -- Wan said he was a monkey-bank; and the ould bottler swore he was the
born imich of Titidall. -- For my part, I says nothing, being as how the captain has done the
handsome thing by me. -- Mr Loyd was dressed in a lite frog, and checket with gould binding;
and thof he don't enter in caparison with great folks of quality, yet he has got as good blood
in his veins as arrow privat 'squire in the county; and then his pursing is far from contentible.
-- Your humble sarvant had on a plain pea-green tabby sack, with my Runnela cap, ruff toupee,
and side curls. -- They said, I was the very moral of lady Rickmanstone, but not so pale --
that may well be, for her ladyship is my elder by seven good years and more. -- Now, Mrs Mary,
our satiety is to suppurate -- Mr Millfart goes to Bath along with the Dallisons, and the rest
of us push home to Wales, to pass our Chrishmarsh at Brampleton-hall -- As our apartments is
to be the yallow pepper, in the thurd story, pray carry my things thither. -- Present my cumpliments
to Mrs Gwyllim, and I hope she and I will live upon dissent terms of civility. -- Being, by
God's blessing, removed to a higher spear, you'll excuse my being familiar with the lower sarvants
of the family; but, as I trust you'll behave respectful, and keep a proper distance, you may
always depend upon the good will and purtection of

Yours, W. LOYD Nov. 20.

FINIS.