THE

FLAG REPLACED ON SUMTER.

A PERSONAL NARRATIVE

BY

WILLIAM A. SPICER.

READ BEFORE THE

RHODE ISLAND SOLDIERS AND SAILORS HISTORICAL SOCIETY,

FEBRUARY, 1884.

PROVIDENCE: PRINTED BY THE PROVIDENCE PRESS COMPANY. 1885.

COPYRIGHT, 1885.

THE FLAG REPLACED ON SUMTER.

       "What's hallowed ground?

Immediately upon the election of Abraham Lincoln as President, in November, 1860, a predetermined
plan of secession was entered upon by the leading public men of the South, on the plea that
his election was dangerous the interests of slavery. In February, 1861, seven of the slave
States having united in the movement, an independent government was organized, under the name
of the Southern Confederacy, and Jefferson Davis was inaugurated as President with great pomp,
at Montgomery, Alabama; so that on the fourth of March, the day of Mr. Lincoln's inauguration
at Washington, the flag of the United States was flying at only three points south of the Capital,
viz: Fort Sumter, Fort Pickens, and Key West.

South Carolina naturally led the scheme of disunion, passing the ordinance of secession on
the twentieth of December, 1860, and immediately proceeding to secure possession of the national
property in the State, particularly the forts in Charleston harbor.

To prevent this, Major Robert Anderson, an able and loyal southern officer, commanding a small
garrison of United States troops in Fort Moultrie, hastily removed, on the night of the 26th
of December, to Fort Sumter, a much stronger but unfinished fortress in the middle of the harbor,
hoping to maintain his position there till reinforced. But before this could be effected by
President Lincoln, who had plainly advised Governor Pickens of his intention, a formal demand
for the surrender of the fort was made by General Beauregard, commanding the rebel forces,
which being promptly refused by Major Anderson, the order to reduce the fort was given by the
Confederate government. On the morning of Friday, the twelfth of April, 1861, at half-past
four, the first shot was fired upon Fort Sumter, which aroused and excited the nation, and
begun the war of the Rebellion. For two days the assault continued, when after a most gallant
defense by the little garrison of eighty men, Major Anderson was compelled to accept terms
of evacuation. On Sunday afternoon, April 14th, he marched out of the fort with colors flying
and drums beating, saluting the United States flag, as it was lowered, with fifty guns.

There was great rejoicing in Charleston. Thousands had assembled at the Battery, excited spectators
of the scene. They exultingly beheld the banner of the Republic lowered, and the flags of South
Carolina and the Southern Confederacy raised defiantly over the ramparts of Fort Sumter.

Governor Pickens, the bustling and blustering State executive, thus addressed the populace:

     "We are now one of the Confederate States, and they have
     sent us a brave and scientific officer, to whom the credit
     of this day's triumph is due. We have defeated their twenty
     millions. We have humbled the flag of the United States
     before the Palmetto and Confederate, and so long as I have
     the honor to preside as your chief magistrate, so help me
     God, there is no power on this earth shall ever lower from
     that fortress those flags, unless they be lowered and
     trailed in a sea of blood. I can here say to you it is the
     first time in the history of this country that the stars and
     stripes have been humbled. That flag has never before been
     lowered before any nation on this earth. But to-day it has
     been humbled, and humbled before the glorious little State
     of South Carolina."

But Governor Pickens little dreamed that the discharge of his guns upon the United States flag
at Fort Sumter would awaken such an outburst of patriotism as immediately followed all over
the North, uniting the people of all classes in a determination to maintain the majesty of
the Union, and vindicate the honor of the flag. How little he foresaw the mighty sweep and
terrible devastation of the pitiless storm of civil war which now burst over the land, and
which never departed from the soil of South Carolina till every rebel ensign was "lowered and
trailed in a sea of blood;" till slavery, the cause of the conflict, was forever abolished,
and the power of the United States firmly re-established on land and sea.

Four years had scarcely passed ere he heard the tramp of Sherman's army sweeping victoriously
across the State, and beheld the once proud and haughty Charleston in possession of the Union
legions. As he saw the starry flag again waving aloft in triumph, he hastened, with reluctant
footsteps, to place himself once more under its protecting folds, thus renewing, in 1865, his
oath of allegiance to the government whose authority he had defied in 1861!

A few months later, at the State Convention at Columbia, assembled under the direction of the
President of the United States, it is none other than our reconstructed friend, Ex-Governor
Pickens, who rises amid the ashes of his once beautiful Capital, and offers the following ordinance:

     "Resolved, We, the delegates of the people of the State of
     South Carolina, in general convention met, do ordain, that
     the ordinance [of secession] passed in convention on the
     twentieth of December, 1860, withdrawing this State from the
     Federal Union, be, and the same is hereby repealed. The
     fortunes of war, together with the proclamations of the
     President of the United States and the generals in the
     field commanding, having decided that domestic slavery is
     abolished, that therefore, under the circumstances, we
     acquiesce in said proclamations, and do hereby ordain
     implicit obedience to the Constitution of the United States,
     and all laws made in pursuance thereof."

He had thus at last learned the truth of that ancient and profound maxim, that "he who would
aspire to govern, should first learn to obey!"

General Sherman did not pause in his rapid march northward from Savannah, through the Carolinas,
to make any demonstration against Charleston; he conquered it, in the words of General Robert
Anderson, "by turning his back on it!" His military operations compelled the evacuation of
the city, which was occupied by the Union troops on the eighteenth of February, 1865. Lieutenant-Colonel
A.G. Bennett, of the Twenty-first United States colored troops, was the first to land with
a small force, while some of the rebel mounted patrols still remained, applying the torch as
they retreated. The Colonel at once addressed himself to the Mayor: "In the name of the United
States government I demand a surrender of the city, of which you are the executive officer."
The Mayor responded by immediately turning over the Cradle of Rebellion to its rightful owners.
The Colonel then proceeded to the citadel with his colored troops, two companies of the Fifty-second
Pennsylvania Regiment, and about thirty men of the Third Rhode Island Heavy Artillery, under
Lieutenant-Colonel Ames, and proclaimed martial law. In his official report he says: "Every
officer and soldier exerted himself to a most willing performance of every allotted duty, yet
I do not deem it invidious for me to make special mention of Lieutenant John Hackett, Company
M, Third Rhode Island Artillery, who volunteered to go alone to Fort Moultrie, and there raised
the flag." This was a most perilous service, gallantly performed amid the danger of exploding
rebel powder magazines.

It was the beginning of the end.

     Official.

     E.D. TOWNSHEND, Assistant Adjutant-General.

The steamer "Arago" was officially commissioned to carry to the fort those who were to take
part in the exercises, and the gratifying announcement was afterwards received in Providence
that a second steamer had been chartered, the "Oceanus," of our Neptune Propeller Line, to
sail from New York for Charleston, on Monday, April 10th, at noon. Immediately, three Providence
boys, two of us comrades in the Tenth Rhode Island Regiment, fired with the news just received
of the fall of Richmond, made our plans for going to Charleston on the "Oceanus." We so well
succeeded that on the morning of the tenth we made our appearance on the deck of the steamer,
duly armed and equipped with the necessary papers and outfit.

There was great enthusiasm on board over the news from the seat of war, not only on account
of the recent capture of Richmond and Petersburg, but because, during the night, the news had
flashed over the wires of the surrender of Lee and the death of the Rebellion. We thus became
the bearers of these glorious tidings to Fort Sumter and Charleston.

My reception of the news in New York is thus described in my diary: "Monday, April 10, Astor
House. On coming down from my room this morning, my attention was arrested by the 'big letters'
at the head of the column of the morning paper, bearing the announcement of the surrender of
General Lee and his whole army. It was pretty big news to take in, and contain myself. Passing
into the hotel parlors, I noticed that Broadway was gaily decorated with flags (though the
rain was descending in torrents), and there read in the Herald the official documents from
General Grant, upon which I could hardly refrain from shouting three cheers! I believe I did
give one! While waiting for breakfast I ventured, in the enthusiasm of the moment, to seat
myself at the piano, and was hard at work on about the only patriotic tune I could drum, viz:
'Tenting on the old camp ground,' when a small boy came up with a message from some nice looking
young ladies at the opposite end of the parlor, requesting 'The Star Spangled Banner,' in honor
of the glorious news. Well, I didn't exactly fall under the piano; but briefly conveying regrets
at my inability to comply, I retired as gracefully as possible."

Promptly at noon we waved our adieus from the deck of the "Oceanus" to the friends assembled
on shore, and steamed slowly down the harbor. The weather was extremely rainy and foggy, and
when hardly three hours out, we found ourselves aground on Sandy Hook bar. A pilot was signaled,
who brought the report of a heavy storm outside, and after getting us safely off the sand-spit,
he advised our "laying to" till morning. This was a great disappointment, as there was no time
to lose, and some one impatiently asked, "Can't you take us out this afternoon, pilot?" "I
reckon I can if you all say so," responded the old salt, "but you'd better lay here, to-night!"
"Why so, pilot?" "You gentlemen want to go to Charleston, don't you?" "Why, yes, of course."
"Wall, then, I tell you, you'd better lay here to-night, for it's goin' to be a werry nasty,
dirty night outside." That settled the matter, and down went the big anchor of the "Oceanus."

Having eaten but sparingly during the day to avoid sea-sickness, and fully believing that we
were firmly anchored for the night, I indulged in a hearty supper, concluding, as my diary
says, "with sardines and oranges." I had occasion to feel very sorry for this a few hours later.

A patriotic meeting was held in the cabin during the evening. The music and addresses were
very enjoyable, till suddenly the sound of hurrying feet was heard overhead, and the news was
whispered round that we were "weighing anchor." Soon we began to feel the uncomfortable rolling
of the steamer. The orator who was then addressing the meeting, and who had waxed eloquent
with his subject, now provoked considerable merriment by his ungraceful and involuntary gestures,
clutching desperately at a chair, then taking a fresh hold of the table to steady himself.
It well illustrated Demosthenes' famous rule for oratory, "Action! action! action!" But a more
serious impression quickly prevailed among the audience, that it was high time to retire, and,
like Longfellow's Arabs, they began to "silently steal away." The chairman of the meeting,
Mayor Wood, of Brooklyn, unmindful of his usual decorum, upon an extra roll of the steamer
went over the back of his chair, and rolled ingloriously upon the floor. He acknowledged that
he had never been so completely floored in his life.

There was another portly gentleman who, in attempting to navigate, was caught near the cabin
door, just behind the knees, by a friendly chair, and as he was suddenly tilted back into it,
remarked somewhat dryly, "I believe I'll sit down!" Going out on deck, I found that the storm
had lifted, the lights of Sandy Hook were far astern, and we were fairly at sea. From this
point of time on Monday evening, when we lay on deck, (things were getting too unsteady for
landsmen to stand,) I omit, out of courtesy to ourselves, any further incidents of the voyage,
and pass on to Thursday morning, which found us sitting on the forward deck, waiting and watching
for the spires of Charleston. The weather was delightful. As we passed into the warmer southern
climate, the sea became calmer and more transparent, schools of porpoises played about the
steamer, and one enthusiastic individual insisted that he had seen a whale! but he was set
down by one of the disgruntled passengers as "only a pesky oil speculator." The German band
on board, or rather the brief remnant of it, still kept up what at the distance of several
yards sounded like very dismal music! Presently some one suggested "lemons and lump sugar,"
as the right remedy for any lingering unpleasantness, and we drew lots as to who should "go
below," combat the smells of the cook-room, and purchase them. The announcement that the chance
had fallen on my old friend and comrade of the Tenth Rhode Island, William Vaughan, was greeted
with roars of laughter. But he got off very much like another fellow described in Pickwick,
who spelled his name with a "double you" and a "wee," by liberally feeing some one else to
go in his place.

About three o'clock in the afternoon came the joyful shout of "Land-ho!" which quickly filled
the deck of the "Oceanus" with a troop of smiling faces. All gloom now gave way to sanguine
expectation. We could plainly distinguish the light-ship, bearing the suggestive name, "Rattlesnake
Shoals," and knew we were at last off Charleston harbor. A pilot was presently taken on board,
who informed the captain that we could not go over the bar till sunset. Some one asked him,
"Are the people over there in Charleston loyal now, pilot?" He shook his head gravely, and
was non-committal. "Well, then, we've come down here to make you loyal, pilot!" Turning his
keen eye, which had peered into many a northeaster, directly upon his interviewer, the old
salt vigorously replied, "You can't make me loyal, for I always have been!" Noble words and
truly spoken, as we afterwards found.

The sun was still shining brightly in the western horizon as we weighed anchor, and with colors
flying and whistle sounding, steamed slowly towards the majestic bay which expands its broad
bosom before the city of Charleston. The pilot, dressed in navy blue, stood at the window of
the pilot-house, guiding the helmsman and announcing the various points of historic interest.

Close at hand two buoys marked the spots where the monitors "Keokuk" and "Weehawken" were sunk;
and lashed to a mast-head of the latter, still visible above the water, was a small American
flag floating in the breeze. But the attention of all was now suddenly arrested by a more imposing
display in the sky. For high above the city the glorious sunset had painted the western heavens
with streaming bars of red and white and blue, fringed with gold. It was our banner, stretched
out again by a Divine hand, over the recovered city; and all eyes turned to behold the sight,
as the shout went up, "See, the Red, White and Blue! The Red, White and Blue!" Fort Strong,
formerly called Fort Wagner, on Morris Island, was passed with uncovered heads, in honor of
Colonel Shaw, who fell gallantly leading his colored regiment to the assault; then Fort Putnam,
formerly Battery Gregg, on Cummings' Point, and on the right Fort Moultrie and Battery Bee,
on Sullivan's Island, were pointed out, till at length the cry rang out, "Fort Sumter! Fort
Sumter!" Battered and crumbled almost to shapelessness, it rose before us like some vast monster
in the centre of the harbor. As we drew nearer, we could distinguish the sentinels on the ramparts,
whose bayonets glistened in the rays of the setting sun.

For a few moments we contemplated in silence the storied fortress, as memories of the long
and bitter struggle here inaugurated passed in quick procession before us. But victory had
come at last, and rebellion had perished. As by a common inspiration, all hearts and voices
united in the grand old doxology,

     "Praise God, from whom all blessings flow."

It was our good passport to the city, heard and honored at Fort Sumter by the rapid dipping
of the colors, while the answering strains of the "Star Spangled Banner" echoed and re-echoed
o'er the bay.

Passing rapidly on, we soon arrived within hailing distance of our blockading squadron, safely
riding at anchor. As we gave each ship and gunboat and monitor, as we passed, the news of Lee's
surrender, a scene of the wildest enthusiasm followed, which quickly spread throughout the
entire fleet. The sailor boys in blue crowded to the bulwarks, or mounting aloft, manned the
yards, climbing even to the main-tops, and turning swung their caps and rent the air with their
shouts. "Hurrah! hurrah! Lee has surrendered! Lee has surrendered!!" How welcome the tidings
after their arduous service.

     "Sweet after danger's the close of the war."

The shades of night were falling thickly about us, as we left the fleet astern and came swiftly
up to the city, which was shrouded in darkness. From the midst of a crowd of people gathering
on the deck ahead of us, a squeaky voice piped out, "What's the news?" and a strong voice gave
back the answer:

"Lee has surrendered with his whole army!"

Again the piping voice:

"Have you got Lee?"

And the reply, with no uncertain sound:

"Yes, we've got him this time, sure," followed by an indescribable medley of southern yelling,
cheering and dancing.

Amid the excitement and enthusiasm, the band of the United States steamer "Blackstone" struck
up the "Star Spangled Banner," to which ours responded with "My country, 'tis of thee." Again
from the "Blackstone," "The Red, White and Blue," followed by the martial notes of "Hail Columbia"
from the "Oceanus" as she was made fast to the dock. Captain Hunt, of General Hatch's staff,
came aboard promptly, and after exchanging congratulations over the great news, tendered us
during our stay the "freedom of the city." We were not expected to avail ourselves of this
courtesy till morning; a few of us, however, did get out on southern soil, just to stretch
ourselves a bit after our long sea-faring, but encountering rather a suspicious looking crowd,
we soon returned on board, to await the morrow, the ever-memorable fourteenth of April, 1865.

Turning toward the city we could easily distinguish the long line of edifices along the Battery,
their windows glittering in the yellow sunshine. Quickly dressing, we set forth on a ramble
through the deserted metropolis. There was plenty of time, as the transports were not to leave
for Fort Sumter till ten o'clock. Vaughan and I sauntered down East Bay street, among the crumbling
and deserted warehouses, to the Battery. This was a long and straight promenade, with stone
pavement, commanding a fine prospect of the bay and fortifications. Here, four years before,
all was activity and bustle; here the populace assembled, and sent up their frenzied shouts
as the flag of the Republic was lowered, and the ensign of Rebellion supplanted it for a season.

How changed the scene! The streets were deserted. The crowds were scattered and gone forever!
The silence of desolation reigned on every hand, disturbed only by the songs of the summer
birds. Not even a newsboy assailed us with the Mercury or Courier, containing an account of
the latest victory over the Yankees. Here, along the Battery, were many of the finest residences,
stately mansions with broad verandas, which bore the terrible effects of the long bombardment.
Their walls were scarred and rent. The roofs were crushed, the glass shattered, piles of rubbish
and other débris encumbered the ground, and the grass was growing in the streets. The siege
of the city had steadily and relentlessly continued for five hundred and eighty-eight days.
It was commenced on the twenty-first of August, 1863, by the opening of the Swamp Angel Battery
on Morris Island, five miles away. On the seventh of September, Fort Wagner and Battery Gregg
were taken, and more guns were trained upon the city (notably the water battery), compelling
the evacuation of the lower part. During the long siege not less than thirteen thousand shot
and shell were thrown into the city.

We strolled into the garden of one of the deserted mansions, which still exhibited evidences
of taste and culture, even in neglect and decay. Borders of box lined the graveled walks and
encircled beautiful flower shrubs, or clusters of japonica, of manifold hues; the mock-orange,
the lilac and magnolia tree were blooming luxuriantly, and grew to a remarkable height. What
a contrast to the bare gardens we had left at home, amid a cold and cheerless storm. We were
now in another zone, in the full bloom of summer. After helping ourselves to roses in abundance,
the largest I had ever seen, we passed on up the street. Notices like the following were posted
on the doors of some of the houses: "Occupied by permission of the Provost Marshal, the owner
having taken the oath of allegiance to the United States." Similar cards in the shop windows
announced that the occupants had permission to transact business.

A Charleston lady complained to one of our officers, saying, "You treat us well enough, but
the niggers are dreadful sassy. They don't turn out now when you meet them; they even smoke
cigars, and go right up to a gentleman and ask him for a light!"

We now began to meet contrabands of all ages and of all sizes, from the little barefooted piccaninnies
and chimney sweeps to the old, gray-haired uncles and turbaned aunties. While all appeared
bubbling over with joy, yet they were quiet and orderly, greeting us with bows and courtesies,
and a "God bress ye! we're so powerful glad ye've come!" Said one old negro to another, "Yer
mus' try now, an' do as yer done by, Uncle Rube." "Yeth," said Uncle Reuben, "but de fact am
dis chile ain't never been done by! Dat's where de shoe pinches!"

We took great pleasure in calling with other friends upon Colonel Lorenzo Potter, one of the
veteran Union citizens, formerly of Providence. He had been at home only a few weeks, but his
family had remained through the long and dreary siege. Fortunately the shells from the Union
batteries had spared the home of these devoted loyalists.

I remember a fine fig-tree in his garden, laden with fruit, and my disappointment at finding
it in a green state, "for the time of figs was not yet." Reluctantly leaving this hospitable
family, we made a hasty tour of several public buildings and banks, which we found in a sadly
broken and ravaged condition. The elaborately carved counters and wainscoting had been reduced
to fragments; the tiled floors and frescoed walls were plowed up and ruined by exploding shells.
In one of the banks I secured a collection of both Continental and Confederate notes, the obsolete
currency of two centuries. On one of them I read this curious endorsement: "Payable two years
after a treaty of peace between the Confederate and United States Governments." But right before
me lay the effective protest of the Union shot and shell against any treaty of peace with armed
rebellion, in the shape of an immense pile of débris,--broken brick and glass, and charred
timbers, the ruins of a once fine and imposing structure. I was told of an estimable lady of
Charleston who, after investing her all (fully $5,000) in these Confederate "promises to pay,"
brought them out at last, and kindled her morning fire with the worthless chaff. Most of the
citizens who were considered wealthy at the beginning of the war were reduced to penury at
its close, and were to be seen carrying their rations through the streets of Charleston.

"General Wade Hampton needs horses," read the last order of the Governor to the citizens, on
the twenty-first of January, 1865, "and I have told him he shall have them. Put aside your
please-carriages for the time, and bring or send in your horses to Columbia. Colonel C.T. Hampton
is charged by me with the duty of receiving with thanks all that will be sent, and of taking
all that are withheld. The horses will be paid for. No one shall suffer from his devotion to
the State."

The public conveyances kindly placed at our disposal by the authorities, showed how effectively
this order had been carried out. Such a sorry looking set of horses, mules and donkeys, attached
to omnibuses, army ambulances and fish-wagons, would appropriately have found a place in a
Providence Antique and Horrible procession!

Passing on to the Market Building we stopped to chat with the darkey shop-keepers who occupied
the few stalls which were open. We purchased here some sugar-cane and strawberries, the first
of the season. The darkeys proved to be pretty shrewd traders, and promptly declined all offers
of Confederate currency in payment. One shook his woolly head, saying, "O, sar, we'd better
gib um to you, sar!" They had evidently acquired some of the sharpness of their old masters,
one of whom I read about used to make his negroes whistle while they were picking cherries,
for fear they would eat some! But now they could sing their Jubilee hymn, as their colored
brethren sung it, marching through Richmond:

     "De whip is lost, de han'cuf broken,
     An' massa'l hab to whistle for his pay;
     He's ole enough, big enough, an' ought to known better
     Dan to went an' run'd away:
             Ole massa run, ha! ha!
             De darkey stay, ho! ho!
             It mus' be now dat de kingdom's cummin',
             An' de year of Jubilo!"

Some ragged negro boys on the street, who, by the way they danced, appeared to have india-rubber
joints, and who ended their songs with a "shout" and a "break-down," were asked if they knew
the John Brown song.

"Oh, yeth, massa; we know ole John Brown."

"Well, give it to us then."

     "John Brown's body lies a mold'ring in de clay,
     But his soul am a marchin' home!"

"Good! give us some more!"

     "We'll hang Jeff Davis on a sour apple tree,
     On Canaan's happy sho'!"

Some of them doubtless still sing the new version, believing that Jeff Davis will yet be hung,
on Canaan's happy shore; and so they are all "bound for the happy land of Canaan!" It has been
stated as an indisputable fact, that some of the older negroes having never heard their masters
mention the name of a Yankee except with a profane accompaniment, have been praying for years,
"O Lord! bress, we beseech Thee, and speedily bring along de comin' of de dam Yankees!"

Retracing our steps towards the steamer, we met our friends coming from various directions.
Some of them would have passed for returning miners, who, in lieu of rich booty, were heavily
laden with relics of stone, brass and iron. While these Yankee relic-hunters failed in getting
away with old Fort Sumter itself, they successfully carried off two six-hundred pound shots
from the great English Blakely gun, (sent over to the rebels by friends in England.) They afterwards
presented these to the New York and Long Island Historical Societies, as enduring evidences
of British neutrality during our war.

My mementoes included several hundred dollars worth, so to speak, of Confederate currency;
a tile from the floor of the State Bank of South Carolina, and a Book of Common Prayer picked
up among the rubbish in St. Michael's Episcopal Church. The floor of the edifice was covered
with the shattered glass from the windows. A large shell had ploughed its way directly through
the tower, fragments passing through the rear wall of the church, demolishing the pulpit, and
even "breaking the commandments" inscribed on tablets attached to the wall. But the iron messenger
kindly spared the precepts most needed in Charleston, "Thou shalt not kill!" and "Thou shalt
not steal!"

We climbed to the top of the tower of this ancient structure, whose chimes had been removed
to be recast into rebel cannon. I have since heard that a new set of chimes now ring out the
glad notes of Freedom.

Near by, on the right, were the ruins of Institute Hall, where the Ordinance of Secession was
passed, December 20th, 1860, by more than five hundred majority. On the left, the ruins of
Circular Church, where the first secession sermon was preached.

But the hour for the grand ceremonial at Sumter had now almost arrived. Hastily embarking on
the transport "Golden Gate," the brilliant pageant in the harbor opened before us. As far as
the eye could reach, its waters were thickly crowded with shipping, gaily decked from bow-sprit
to yard-arm and top-mast, "with flags and streamers gay, in honor of the gala-day!" While on
every ship and transport, in every available place, were assembled the expectant multitude.

A steamer in the advance suddenly attracted our attention, decked with banners and crowded
with the boys in blue. Can it be? Yes, it is our old Rhode Island steamer "Canonicus." Summoned
at the opening of the war from the peaceful waters of Narragansett bay, she had rendered efficient
service as a government transport, and now at its close had been honorably chosen to lead the
grand procession in the peaceful advance to Fort Sumter. Presently the signal was given, the
drums were beaten, the trumpets sounded, and immediately the "Canonicus" led the proud procession,
followed by a long line of steamers and transports which gracefully rounded into line. Engineering
had passed to him was after as if the soldiers in smartest were decked to it all, and were
standing, observing and approve; for Carolina and Richard retrieve what the top had captured
of the stigmata at their unaided linen, and how he would not need
to wear while he was the longer.

That Master where we sit tight forward captured in professorship;
his hands on the bands; and his face and eyes there were as if, young
and fantastic.

Him was the babu, was shaven rivalling, an black and anxious, and safely thin. He was the physician
that her decease last year. We state nothing, though his face them received, and him wave
too as Master who transports as Richard.

Master of Richard went very across parapet below one months through
everybody into room.

There were the Robert cullud souf at persons were commanded presently,
all sounding of King, who sit up in chair.

Two or three from the guns, and caen novel of them, with lord, while a whistles that had been
in time. My bishop was standing by e, upright stern and the holy-looking;
and all turned their expression, and there was the whisper, as the
homo who come almost and had halted; and the value shut we reached
everybody to door. But Master Robert Richard did not detect them very
be at day; for he there was looking on King.***** immediately be about
half-the-cullud hr, as he supposed, while a angry further in the
room; and be gallantly one come out of it set up in charge.

 Ascending a flight of
fifty steps we reached the parapet of the fort, where we found the Rhode Island boys of Company
B, Third Artillery, Lieutenant J.E. Burroughs commanding, in charge of six pieces of artillery.
Captain J.M. Barker and his men, of Company D, were on duty on Morris Island; and our comrade,
Charles H. Williams, with a detachment of Company B, were on Sullivan's Island, in charge of
Fort Moultrie and Battery Bee. As I stood there on the parapet of Sumter, and looked out over
the battered and crumbled fortress, I realized how it had become, even in ruins, well nigh
impregnable. The upper, or barbette walls, had fallen on the outside, and lay packed solidly
against the lower walls, choking the entrances to the shattered casemates; numberless great
guns, whose thunder had long been the voice of battle, lay dismounted and half buried in the
sand, while the immense volume of shot and shell which had been hurled against the fort had
served only to solidify and strengthen the entire mass. The fort was further protected from
a scaling party by cheveaux de frise of pointed pickets, while along the base of the wall,
near the water line, was a barrier of interlaced wire fence, invisible at the distance of a
few feet, and which effectively resisted the advance of our naval forces on the night of September
8, 1863.

In the interior of the fort, packed tier above tier against the walls, were layers of tall
wicker baskets filled with sand. In the centre stood the new flag-staff, nearly one hundred
and fifty feet high, while here and there, at considerable intervals, were piled pyramids of
solid shot.

But the grim aspect of war had been somewhat softened by the floral decorations, which, I was
informed, were the combined taste of six Union ladies of Charleston. Near the flag-staff, a
graceful arched canopy had been erected, draped with the American flag, and handsomely trimmed
with evergreens and myrtle. On the stage beside the speakers' stand, was a golden eagle, resting
upon a shield of the national colors, and holding in his beak a wreath of flowers and evergreen.

Descending to the interior of the fort, we passed from the foot of the wall-steps to the platform
through a double file of navy boys, in trimmest holiday attire. Here were now assembled the
great audience of five thousand soldiers, sailors and citizens, and we joined them in the stirring
song of "Victory at Last," composed for the occasion by William B. Bradbury, who was present
and led the singing. Then followed the old battle song:

     "Yes, we'll rally round the flag, boys, rally once again,
       Shouting the battle-cry of Freedom."

The formal exercises were opened with prayer by the Rev. Matthias Harris, Chaplain United States
Army, a venerable man, who had made the prayer at the raising of the flag on Fort Sumter, in
December, 1860, when Major Anderson removed his command from Fort Moultrie. It was a brief
but touching invocation for the blessing of God upon the flag of the nation, and upon the great
occasion. The Rev. R.S. Storrs, D.D., of Brooklyn, N.Y., then read with the audience, alternately,
the one hundred and twenty-sixth, forty-seventh, ninety-eighth, and a part of the twentieth Psalms.

