We had now developed so many more ideas than we could possibly use that the labour of deciding
among them was the next thing to be done. Each of us stood out boldly for her own project,--even
Francesca clinging, from sheer wilfulness, to her worthless and absurd itineraries,--until,
in order to bring the matter to any sort of decision, somebody suggested that we consult Benella;
which reminds me that you have not yet the pleasure of Benella's acquaintance.

Chapter III. We sight a derelict.

     'O Bay of Dublin, my heart you're troublin',
      Your beauty haunts me like a fever dream.'
                                         Lady Dufferin.

To perform the introduction properly I must go back a day or two. We had elected to cross to
Dublin directly from Scotland, an easy night journey. Accordingly we embarked in a steamer
called the Prince or the King of something or other, the name being many degrees more princely
or kingly than the craft itself. Because this is a sign of secure inheritance.

And you? What have you dreamt?

Me?
Last night, that we met with a black bull.

Well, that means we will discover a hidden treasure...Look, who says
that this old house that was once occupied by wealthy merchants it
is not inside a partition wall or in a good pot from the bigwigs.

I have heard tell that in the
past century a few powerful cloth merchants lived here and when they
died...none of the money was found. It may be that it is walled up. There
have been cases, many cases.

I am certain there is money
on this estate. But, to know where demonstrates these (indinos)hid
it. Is there no way to find out?

I do not know..murmured Benina, letting his mind wander toward the
oriental incantations proposed by Almudena.

And if it is not in the walls, under the tiles in the kitchen or
pantry can it be that those men hid it, believing that they could
enjoy it in the next life.

.. Perhaps.. Bt it is more likely that it is in the walls, or a supposition
that it is in the roof, between the beams.

I think you are right.

All the same, it can be above, rather than below. I assure you that
when the floor was strong in the hallways and dining room, they swept
through the mansion as if it would collapse, I believe I hear a little
noise... as if the metals are tinkling.

Did you
feel it? Yes, ma'am. And if not, try the same, now. He takes a walk
through the bedroom, stomping and we hear...Benina did as the woman
said, with no less conviction and faith that she, in effect...they
heard a metallic clang, which could only come from enormous quantities
of silver and gold (surely, more gold than silver)embedded in the
old factory.


The boat was met by a crowd of ragged gossoons, most of them barefooted, some of them stockingless,
and in men's shoes, and several of them with flowers in their unspeakable hats and caps. There
were no cabs or jaunting cars because we had not been expected so early, and the jarveys were
in attendance on the Holyhead steamer. It was while I was searching for a piece of lost luggage
that I saw the stewardess assisting a young woman off the gang plank, and leading her toward
a pile of wool bags on the dock. She sank helplessly on one of them, and leaned her head on
another. As the night had been one calculated to disturb the physical equilibrium of a poor
sailor, and the breakfast of a character to discourage the stoutest stomach, I gave her a careless
thought of pity and speedily forgot her. Was it denial? Was it burgeoning patriotism? I declared my amazement,
and said "Since you came to Tablanca, I have be committed to seeing
visions to that purpose.

I know what you have told me, and I know that another has left little
to support it."
.