"Here's a famous place for a canter, Miss Fairlegh," exclaimed Lawless; "lean a little more
towards me--that's right. Are you ready?--just tickle her neck with the whip--not too hard--jerk
the rein slightly--gently, mare, gently!--there's a good horse, that's it! Eh! don't ~334~~
you see she settles into her pace as quietly as a rocking-horse--oh! she's a sweet thing for
a feather-weight;" and restraining the plunging of the fiery animal he rode, he leaned over,
and patted the Arab's arched neck, as they went off at an easy canter.

I was about to follow their example, but observing that Oaklands delayed putting his horse
in motion, it occurred to me that this being the first ride he had taken since his illness,
the exertion might possibly be too much for his strength; I waited, therefore, till he joined
me, when I inquired whether he felt any ill effects from the unwonted exertion.

"No," was the reply. "I feel an odd kind of fluttering in my side, but it is only weakness."

"Had you not better give it up for to-day, and let me ride back with you? I dare say Lawless
would not care about hunting for once, and would see Fanny home."

"I will not go back!" he replied sternly; then checking himself, he added in a milder tone,
"I mean to say it is not necessary--really I do not feel ill--besides, it was only a passing
sensation, and is already nearly gone."

He paused for a moment, and then continued, "How very dictatorial and disagreeable Lawless
has grown of late, and what absurd nonsense he does talk when he is in the society of ladies!
I wonder your sister can tolerate it." "She not only tolerates it," returned I, slightly piqued
at the contemptuous tone in which he spoke of Lawless, "but is excessively amused by it; why,
she said last night he was quite delightful."

"I gave her credit for better taste," was Oaklands' reply; and striking his horse impatiently
with the spur, he dashed forward, and in a few moments we had rejoined the others.

"I hope illness has not soured Harry's temper, but he certainly appears more prone to take
offence than in former days," was my inward comment, as I pondered over his last words. "I
am afraid Fanny has annoyed him; I must speak to her, and give her a hint to be more careful
for the future."

Half an hour's brisk riding brought us to the outskirts of a broad common, a great portion
of which was covered by the gorse or furze from which it took its name. Around the sides of
this were gathered from sixty to eighty well-mounted men, either collected in groups, to discuss
the various topics of local interest which occupy the minds of country gentlemen, or riding
up and down in parties of two and three together, impatient for the ~335~~ commencement of
their morning's sport; while, in a small clear space, nearly in the centre of the furze-brake,
were stationed the hounds, with the huntsman and whippers-in. "There!" exclaimed Lawless, "look
at that! Talk about operas and exhibitions! where will you find an exhibition as well worth
seeing as that is? I call that a sight for an empress. Now are not you glad I made you come,
Miss Fairlegh?"

"The red coats look very gay and picturesque, certainly," replied Fanny; "and what loves of
horses, with their satin skins glistening in the sunshine! But I wish Rose Alba would not prick
up her ears in that way; I'm rather frightened."

While Lawless was endeavouring to convince her there was no danger, and that he was able and
willing to frustrate any nefarious designs which might enter into the graceful little head
of the white Arab, a young man rode up to Oaklands, and shaking him warmly by the hand, congratulated
him on being once more on horseback.

