

GAS HELP

This refers to more than stump speech-making.  The old Romans drove through solid rock numerous
tunnels similar to the one for draining Lago de Celano, fifty miles east of Rome.  This one
was three and a half miles long, through solid rock, and every chip cost a blow of a human
arm to dislodge it.  Of course the process was very slow.

We do works vastly greater.  We drive tunnels three times as long for double-track railways
through rock that is held down by an Alp.  We use common air to drill the holes and a thin
gas to break the rock.  The Mont Cenis tunnel required the removal of 900,000 cubic yards of
rock. Near Dover, England, 1,000,000,000 tons of cliff were torn down and scattered over fifteen
acres in an instant.  How was it done?  By gas.

There are a dozen kinds of solids which can be handled--some of them frozen, thawed, soaked
in water, with impunity--but let a spark of fire touch them and they break into vast volumes
of uncontrollable gas that will rend the heart out of a mountain in order to expand.

Gunpowder was first used in 1350; so the old Romans knew nothing of its power.  They flung
javelins a few rods by the strength of the arm; we throw great iron shells, starting with an
initial velocity of fifteen hundred feet a second and going ten miles.  The air pressure against
the front of a fifteen-inch shell going at that speed is 2,865 pounds. That ton and a half
of resistance of gas in front must be much more than overcome by gas behind.

But the least use of explosives is in war; not over ten per cent is so used.  The Mont Cenis
tunnel took enough for 200,000,000 musket cartridges.  As much as 2,000 kegs have been fired
at once in California to loosen up gravel for mining, and 23 tons were exploded at once under
Hell Gate, at New York.

How strong is this gas?  As strong as you please.  Steam is sometimes worked at a pressure
of 400 pounds to the inch, but not usually over 100 pounds.  It would be no use to turn steam
into a hole drilled in rock.  The ordinary pressure of exploded gas is 80,000 pounds to the
square inch.  It can be made many times more forceful.  It works as well in water, under the
sea, or makes earthquakes in oil wells 2,000 feet deep, as under mountains.

The wildest imagination of Scheherezade never dreamed in Arabian Nights of genii that had a
tithe of the power of these real forces. Her genii shut up in bottles had to wait centuries
for some fisherman to let them out.

NATURAL AFFECTION OF METALS

"Sacra fames auri."  The hunger for gold, which in men is called accursed, in metals is justly
called sacred.

In all the water of the sea there is gold--about 400 tons in a cubic mile--in very much of
the soil, some in all Philadelphia clay, in the Pactolian sands of every river where Midas
has bathed, and in many rocks of the earth.  But it is so fine and so mixed with other substances
that in many cases it cannot be seen.  Look at the ore from a mine that is giving its owners
millions of dollars.  Not a speck of gold can be seen.  How can it be secured?  Set a trap
for it.  Put down something that has an affinity--voracious appetite, unslakable thirst, metallic
affection--for gold, and they will come together.

We have heard of potable gold--"potabile aurum."  There are metals to which all gold is drinkable.
Mercury is one of them.  Cut transverse channels, or nail little cleats across a wooden chute
for carrying water.  Put mercury in the grooves or before the cleats, and shovel auriferous
gravel and sand into the rushing water.  The mercury will bibulously drink into itself all
the fine invisible gold, while the unaffectionate sand goes on, bereaved of its wealth.

Put gold-bearing quartz under an upright log shod with iron.  Lift and drop the log a few hundred
times on the rock, until it is crushed so fine that it flows over the edge of the trough with
constantly going water, and an amalgam of mercury spread over the inclined way down which the
endusted water flows will drink up all the gold by force of natural affection therefor.

Neither can the gold be seen in the mercury.  But it is there.  Squeeze the mercury through
chamois skin.  An amalgam, mostly gold, refuses to go through.  Or apply heat.  The mercury
flies away as vapor and the gold remains.

If thou seekest for wisdom as for silver, and searchest for her as for hid treasure, thou shalt
find.

NATURAL AFFECTION BETWEEN METAL AND LIQUID

A little boy had a silver mug that he prized very highly, as it was the gift of his grandfather.
The boy was not born with a silver spoon in his mouth, but, what was much better, he had a
mug often filled with what he needed.

One day he dipped it into a glass jar of what seemed to him water, and letting go of it saw
it go to the bottom.  He went to find his father to fish it out for him.  When he came back
his heavy solid mug looked as if it were made of the skeleton leaves of the forest when the
green chlorophyll has decayed away in the winter and left only the gauzy veins and veinlets
through which the leaves were made.  Soon even this fretwork was gone, and there was no sign
of it to be seen.  The liquid had eaten or drank the solid metal up, particle by particle.
The liquid was nitric acid.

The poor little boy had often seen salt, and especially sugar, absorbed in water, but never
his  precious solid silver mug, and the bright tears rolled down his cheeks freely.

But his father thought of two things: First, that the blue tint told him that the jeweler had
sold for silver to the grandfather a mug that was part copper; and secondly, that he would
put some common salt into the nitric acid--which it liked so much better than silver that it
dropped the silver, just as a boy might drop bread when he sought to fill his hands with cake.

So the father recovered the invisible silver and made it into a precious mug again.

NATURAL AFFECTION OP METAL AND GAS

A man was waked up one night in a strange house by a noise he could not understand.  He wanted
a light, and wanted it very much, but he had no matches that would take fire by the heat of
friction.  He knew of many other ways of starting a fire.  If water gets to the cargo of lime
in a vessel it sets the ship on fire.  It is of no use to try to put it out by water, for it
only makes more heat.  He knew that dried alum and sugar suitably mixed would burst into flame
if exposed to the air; that nitric acid and oil of turpentine would take fire if mixed; that
flint struck by steel would start fire enough to explode a powder magazine; and that Elijah
called down from heaven a kind of fire that burned twelve "barrels" of water as easily as ordinary
water puts out ordinary fire.  But he had none of these ways of lighting his candle at hand--not
even the last.

So he took a bit of potassium metal, bright as silver, out of a bottle of naphtha, put it in
the candle wick, touched it with a bit of dripping ice, and so lighted his candle.

The potassium was so avaricious of oxygen that it decomposed the water to get it.  Indeed,
it was a case of mutual affection.  The oxygen preferred the company of potassium to that of
the hydrogen in the water, and went to it even at the risk of being burned.

I was so interested in seeing a bit of silver-like metal and water take fire as they touched
that I forgot all about the occasion of the noise.

HINT HELP

Benjamin C. B. Tilghman, of Philadelphia, once went into the lighthouse at Cape May, and, observing
that the window glass was translucent rather than transparent, asked the keeper why he put
ground glass in the windows.  "We do not," said the keeper.  "We put in the clear glass, and
the wind blows the sand against it and roughens the outer surface like ground glass."  The
answer was to him like the falling apple to Newton.  He put on his thinking cap and went out.
It was better than the cap of Fortunatus to him.  He thought, "If nature does this, why cannot
I make a fiercer blast, let sand trickle into it, and so hurl a million little hammers at the
glass, and grind it more swiftly than we do on stones with a stream of wet sand added?"

He tried jets of steam and of air with sand, and found that he could roughen a pane of glass
almost instantly.  By coating a part of the glass with hot beeswax, applied with a brush, through
a stencil, or covering it with paper cut into any desired figures, he could engrave the most
delicate and intricate patterns as readily as if plain.  Glass is often made all white, except
a very thin coating of brilliant colored glass on one side.  This he could cut through, leaving
letters of brilliant color and the general surface white, or vice versa.

Seal cutting is a very delicate and difficult art, old as the Pharaohs. Protect the surface
that is to be left, and the sand blast will cut out the required design neatly and swiftly.

There is no known substance, not even corundum, hard enough to resist the swift impact of myriads
of little stones.

It will cut more granite into shape in an hour than a man can in a day.

Surely no one will be sorry to learn that General Tilghman sold part of his patents, taken
out in October, 1870, for $400,000, and receives the untold benefits of the rest to this day.
So much for thinking.

Nature gives thousands of hints.  Some can take them; some can only take the other thing. 
The hints are greatly preferred by nature and man.

CREATIONS NOW IN PROGRESS

The forces of creation are yet in full play.  Who can direct them? Rewards greater than Tilghman's
await the thinker.  We are permitted not only to think God's thoughts after him, but to do
his works. "Greater works than these that I do shall he do who believeth on me," says the Greatest
Worker.  Great profit incites to do the work noted below.

Carbon as charcoal is worth about six cents a bushel; as plumbago, for lead pencils or for
the bicycle chain, it is worth more; as diamond it has been sold for $500,000 for less than
an ounce, and that was regarded as less than half its value.  Such a stone is so valuable that
$15,000 has been spent in grinding and polishing its surface.  The glazier pays $5.00 for a
bit of carbon so small that it would take about ten thousand of them to make an ounce.

Why is there such a difference in value?  Simply arrangement and compactness.  Can we so enormously
enhance the value of a bushel of charcoal by arrangement and compression?  Not very satisfactorily
as yet.  We can apply almost limitless pressure, but that does not make diamonds.  Every particle
must go to its place by some law and force we have not yet attained the mastery of.

We do not know and control the law and force in nature that would enable us to say to a few
million bricks, stones, bits of glass, etc., "Fly up through earth, water, and air, and combine
into a perfect palace, with walls, buttresses, towers, and windows all in exact architectural
harmony."  But there is such a law and force for crystals, if not for palaces.  There is wisdom
to originate and power to manage such a force.  It does not take masses of rock and stick them
together, nor even particles from a fluid, but atoms from a gas.  Atoms as fine as those of
air must be taken and put in their place, one by one, under enormous pressure, to have the
resulting crystal as compact as a diamond.

The force of crystallization is used by us in many inferior ways, as in making crystals of
rock candy, sulphur, salt, etc., but for the making of diamonds it is too much for us, except
in a small way.

While we cannot yet use the force that builds large white diamonds we can use the diamonds
themselves.  Set a number of them around a section of an iron tube, place it against a rock,
at the surface or deep down in a mine, cause it to revolve rapidly by machinery, and it will
bore into the rock, leaving a core.  Force in water, to remove the dust and chips, and the
diamond teeth will eat their way hundreds of feet in any direction; and by examining the extracted
core miners can tell what sort of ore there is hundreds of feet in advance.  Hence, they go
only where they know that value lies.

SOME CURIOUS BEHAVIORS OF ATOMS

Ultimate atoms of matter are asserted to be impenetrable.  That is, if a mass of them really
touched each other, that mass would not be condensible by any force.  But atoms of matter do
not touch.  It is thinkable, but not demonstrable, that condensation might go on till there
were no discernible substance left, only force.

Matter exists in three states: solid, liquid, and gas.  It is thought that all matter may be
passed through the three stages--iron being capable of being volatilized, and gases condensed
to liquids and solids--the chief difference of these states being greater or less distance
between the constituent atoms and molecules.  In gas the particles are distant from each other,
like gnats flying in the air; in liquids, distant as men passing in a busy street; in solids,
as men in a congregation, so sparse that each can easily move about.  The congregation can
easily disperse to the rarity of those walking in the street, and the men in the street condense
to the density of the congregation.  So, matter can change in going from solids to liquids
and gases, or vice versa.  The behavior of atoms in the process is surpassingly interesting.

Gold changes its density, and therefore its thickness, between the two dies of the mint that
make it money.  How do the particles behave as they snuggle up closer to each other?

Take a piece of iron wire and bend it.  The atoms on the inner side become nearer together,
those on the outside farther apart.  Twist it. The outer particles revolve on each other; those
of the middle do not move.  They assume and maintain their new relations.

Hang a weight on a wire.  It does not stretch like a rubber thread, but it stretches.  Eight
wires were tested as to their tensile strength. They gave an average of forty-five pounds,
and an elongation averaging nineteen per cent of the total length.  Then a wire of the same
kind was given time to adjust itself to its new and trying circumstances. Forty pounds were
hung on one day, three pounds more the next day, and so on, increasing the weights by diminishing
quantities, till in sixty days it carried fifty-seven pounds.  So it seems that exercise strengthened
the wire nearly twenty-seven per cent.

While those atoms are hustling about, lengthening the wire and getting a better grip on one
another, they grow warm with the exercise.  Hold a thick rubber band against your lip--suddenly
stretch it.  The lip easily perceives the greater heat.  After a few moments let it contract.
The greater coldness is equally perceptible.

A wire suspending thirty-nine pounds being twisted ninety-five full turns lengthened itself
one sixteen-hundredth of its length.  Being further twisted by twenty-five turns it shortened
itself one fourth of its previous elongation.  During the twisting some sections took far more
torsion than others.  A steel wire supporting thirty-nine pounds was twisted one hundred and
twenty times and then allowed to untwist at will.  It let out only thirty-eight turns and retained
eighty-two in the new permanent relation of particles.  A wire has been known to accommodate
itself to nearly fourteen hundred twists, and still the atoms did not let go of each other.
They slid about on each other as freely as the atoms of water, but they still held on.  It
is easier to conceive of these atoms sliding about, making the wire thinner and longer, when
we consider that it is the opinion of our best physicists that molecules made of atoms are
never still.  Masses of matter may be still, but not the constituent elements.  They are always
in intensest activity, like a mass of bees--those inside coming out, outside ones going in--but
the mass remains the same.

The atoms of water behave extraordinarily.  I know of a boiler and pipes for heating a house.
When the fire was applied and the temperature was changed from that of the street to two hundred
degrees, it was easy to see that there was a whole barrel more of it than when it was let into
the boiler.  It had been swollen by the heat, but it was nothing but water.

Mobile, flexible, and yielding as water seems to be, it has an obstinacy quite remarkable.
It was for a long time supposed to be absolutely incompressible.  It is nearly so.  A pressure
that would reduce air to one hundredth of its bulk would not discernibly affect water.  Put
a ton weight on a cubic inch of water; it does not flinch nor perceptibly shrink, yet the atoms
of water do not fill the space they occupy.  They object to being crowded.  They make no objection
to having other matter come in and possess the space unoccupied by them.

Air so much enjoys its free, agile state, leaping over hills and plains, kissing a thousand
flowers, that it greatly objects to being condensed to a liquid.  First we must take away all
the heat.  Two hundred and ten degrees of heat changes water to steam filling 1,728 times as
much space.  No amount of pressure will condense steam to water unless the heat is removed.
So take heat away from air till it is more than two hundred degrees below zero, and then a
pressure of about two hundred atmospheres (14.7 pounds each) changes common air to fluid. 
It fights desperately against condensation, growing hot with the effort, and it maintains its
resilience for years at any point of pressure short of the final surrender that gives up to
become liquid.

Perhaps sometime we shall have the pure air of the mountains or the sea condensed to fluid
and sold by the quart to the dwellers in the city, to be expanded into air once more.

The marvel is not greater that gas is able to sustain itself under the awful pressure with
its particles in extreme dispersion, than that what we call solids should have their molecules
in a mazy dance and yet keep their strength.

Since this world, in power, fineness, finish, beauty, and adaptations, not only surpasses our
accomplishment, but also is past our finding out to its perfection, it must have been made
by One stronger, finer, and wiser than we are.

MOBILITY OF SEEMING SOLIDS

When a human breath, or the white jet of a steam whistle, or the black cough of a locomotive
smokestack is projected into the air it is easy to see that the air is mobile.  Its particles
easily roll over one another in voluminously infolding wreaths.  The same is seen in water.
The crest of a wave falls over a portion of air, imprisoning it for a moment, and the mingled
air and water of different densities prevent the light of the sun or sky from going straight
down into the black depths and being lost, but by being reflected and turned back it shows
like beautiful white lace, constantly created and dissolved with a thousandfold more beauty
than any that ever came from human hands.  All the three shifting elements of the swift creations
are mobile.  This seems to be the case because these elements are not solid.  The particles
have plenty of room to play about each other, to execute mazy dances and minuets with vastly
more space than substance.

Extend the thought a little.  Things that seem to us most solid are equally mobile.  An iron
wire seems solid.  It is so; some parts much more so than others.  The surface that has been
in closest contact with the die as the wire was drawn through, reducing its size by one half,
perhaps, is vastly more dense than the inner parts that have not been so condensed.  File away
one tenth of a wire, taking it all from the surface, and you weaken the tensile strength of
the wire one half.

But, dense and solid as this iron is, its particles are as mobile within certain limits as
the particles of air.  An electric message sent through a mile of wire is not anything transmitted;
matter is not transferred, but the particles are set to dancing in wavy motion from end to
end.  Particles are leaping within ordered limits and according to regular laws as really as
the clouds swirl and the air trembles into song through the throat of a singer.  When a wire
is made sensitive by electricity the breath of a child can make it vibrate from end to end,
ensouled with the child's laughter or fancies.  Nay, more, and far more wonderful, the wire
will be sensitive to the number of vibrations of a certain note of music, and no receiver at
the other end will gather up its sensitive tremblings unless it is pitched to the keynote of
the vibrations sent.  In this way eight sets of vibrations have been sent on one wire both
ways at the same time, and no set of signals has in any way interfered with the completeness
and audibility of the rest. Sixteen sets of waltzes were being performed at one and the same
time by the particles of one wire without confusion.  Because the air is transmitting the notes
of an organ from the loft to the opposite end of the church, it is not incapable of bringing
the sound of a voice in an opposite direction to the organist from the other end of the church.

The extreme mobility of steel is seen when the red-hot metal is plunged into water.  Instantly
every particle takes a new position, making it a hundredfold more hard than before it was heated.
But these particles of transferred steel are still mobile.   A man's razor does not cut smoothly.
It is dull, or has a ragged edge that is more inclined to draw tears than cut hairs.  He draws
the razor over the tender palm of his hand a few times, rearranges the particles of the edge
and builds them out into a sharper form.  Then the razor returns to the lip with the dainty
touch of a kiss instead of a saw.  Or the tearful man dips the razor in hot water and the particles
run out to make a wider blade and, of course, a thinner, sharper edge.  Drop the tire of a
wagon wheel into a circular fire.  As the heat increases each particle says to its neighbor,
"Please stand a little further off; this more than July heat is uncomfortable."  So the close
friends stand a little further apart, lengthening the tire an inch or two.  Then, being taken
out of the fire and put on the wheel and cooled, the particles snuggle up together again, holding
the wheel with a grip of cold iron.  Mobile and loose, with plenty of room to play, as the
particles have, neither wire nor tire loses its tensile strength.  They hold together, whether
arms are locked around each other's waist, or hand clasps hand in farther reach.  What change
has come to iron when it has been made red or white hot?  Its particles have simply been mobilized.
It differs from cold iron as an army in barracks and forts differs from an army mobilized.
Nothing has been added but movement.  There is no caloric substance.  Heat is a mode of motion.
The particles of iron have been made to vibrate among themselves.  When the rapidity of movement
reaches four hundred and sixty millions of millions of vibrations per second it so affects
the eye that we say it is red-hot.  When other systems of vibration have been added for yellow,
etc., up to seven hundred and thirty millions of millions for the violet, and all continue
in full play, the eye perceives what we call white heat.  It is a simple illustration of the
readiness of seeming solids to vibrate with almost infinite swiftness.

I have been to-day in what is to me a kind of heaven below--the workshop of my much-loved friend,
John A. Brashear, in Allegheny, Pa. He easily makes and measures things to one four-hundred-thousandth
of an inch of accuracy.  I put my hand for a few seconds on a great piece of glass three inches
thick.  The human heat raised a lump detectable by his measurements.  We were testing a piece
of glass half an inch thick; and five inches in diameter.  I put my two thumbnails at the two
sides as it rested on its bed, and could see at once that I had compressed the glass to a shorter
diameter.  We twisted it in so many ways that I said, "That is a piece of glass putty."  And
yet it was the firmest texture possible to secure.  Great lenses are so sensitive that one
cannot go near them without throwing them discernibly out of shape. It were easy to show that
there is no solid earth nor immovable mountains.  I came away saying to my friend, "I am glad
God lets you into so much of his finest thinking."  He is a mechanic, not a theologian.  This
foremost man in the world in his fine department was lately but a "greasy mechanic," an engineer
in a rolling mill.

But for elasticity and mobility nothing approaches the celestial ether. Its vibrations reach
into millions of millions per second, and its wave-lengths for extreme red light are only .0000266
of an inch long, and for extreme violet still less--.0000167 of an inch.

It is easier molding hot iron than cold, mobile things than immobile. This world has been made
elastic, ready to take new forms.  New creations are easy, for man, even--much more so for God.

No less is it true of atoms.  In him all things live and move.  Such intense activities could
not be without an infinite God immanent in matter.

THE NEXT WORLD TO CONQUER

Man's next realm of conquest is the celestial ether.  It has higher powers, greater intensities,
and quicker activities than any realm he has yet attempted.

When the emissory or corpuscular theory of light had to be abandoned a medium for light's interplay
between worlds had to be conceived.  The existence of an all-pervasive medium called the luminiferous
ether was launched as a theory.  Its reality has been so far demonstrated that but very few
doubters remain.

What facts of its conditions and powers can be known?  It differs almost totally from our conceptions
of matter.  Of the eighteen necessary properties of matter perhaps only one, extension, can
be predicated of it.  It is unlimited, all-pervasive; even where worlds are non-attractive,
does not accumulate about suns or other bodies; has no structure, chemical relations, nor inertia;
is not heatable, and is not cognizable by any of our present senses.  Does it not take us one
step toward an apprehension of the revealed condition of spirit?

Recall its actual activities.  Two hundred and fifty-eight vibrations of air per second produce
on the ear the sensation we call do, or C of the soprano scale; five hundred and sixteen give
the upper C, or an octave above.  So the sound runs up in air till, above, say, thirty-five
thousand vibrations per second, there is plenty of sound inaudible to our ears.  But not inaudible
to finer ears.  To them the morning stars sing together in mighty chorus:

  "Forever singing as they shine,
  'The hand that made us is divine.'"

Electricity has as great a variety of vibrations as sound.  Since some kinds of electricity
do not readily pass through space devoid of air, though light and heat do, it seems likely
that some of the lower intensities and slower vibrations of electricity are not in ether but
in air.  Certainly some of the higher intensities are in ether. Between two hundred and four
hundred millions of millions of vibrations of ether per second are the different sorts of heat.
Between four hundred and eight hundred vibrations are the different colors of light. Beyond
eight hundred vibrations there is plenty of light, invisible to our eyes, known as chemical
rays and probably the Roentgen rays. Beyond these are there vibrations for thought-transference?
Who knoweth?

These familiar facts are called up to show the almost infinite capacities and intensities of
the ether.  Matter is more forceful, as it is less dense.  Rock is solid, and has little force
except obstinate resistance.  Steam is rarer and more forceful.  Gases suddenly born of dynamite
touched by fire in the rock under a mountain have the tremendous pressure of eighty thousand
pounds to the square inch. Ether is so rare that its density, compared with water, is represented
by a decimal fraction with twenty-seven ciphers before it.

When the worlds navigate this sea, do they plow through it as a ship through the waves, forcing
them aside, or as a sieve letting the water through it?  Doubtless the sieve is the better
symbol.  Certainly the vibrations flow through solid glass and most solid diamond.  To be sure,
they are a little hampered by the solid substance.  The speed of light is reduced from one
hundred and eighty thousand miles a second in space to one hundred and twenty thousand in glass.
If ether can so readily go through such solids, no wonder that a spirit body could appear to
the disciples, "the doors being shut."

Marvelous discoveries in the capacities of ether have been made lately. In 1842 Joseph Henry
found that electric waves in the top of his house provoked action in a wire circuit in the
cellar, through two floors and ceilings, without wire connections.  More than twenty years
ago Professor Loomis, of the United States coast survey, telegraphed twenty miles between mountains
by electric impulses sent from kites.  Last year Mr. Preece, the cable being broken, sent,
without wires, one hundred and fifty-six messages between the mainland and the island of Mull,
a distance of four and a half miles.  Marconi, an Italian, has sent recognizable signals through
seven or eight thick walls of the London post-office, and three fourths of a mile through a
hill. Jagadis Chunder Bose, of India, has fired a pistol by an electric vibration seventy-five
feet away and through more than four feet of masonry.  Since brick does not elastically vibrate
to such infinitesimal impulses as electric waves, ether must.  It has already been proven that
one can telegraph to a flying train from the overhead wires.  Ether is a far better medium
of transmission than iron.  A wire will now carry eight messages each way, at the same time,
without interference.  What will not the more facile ether do?

Such are some of the first vague suggestions of a realm of power and knowledge not yet explored.
They are mere auroral hints of a new dawn. The full day is yet to shine.

Like timid children, we have peered into the schoolhouse--afraid of the unknown master.  If
we will but enter we shall find that the Master is our Father, and that he has fitted up this
house, out of his own infinite wisdom, skill, and love, that we may be like him in wisdom and
power as well as in love.

OUR ENJOYMENT OF NATURE'S FORCES

We are a fighting race; not because we enjoy fights, but we enjoy the exercise of force.  In
early times when we knew of no forces to handle but our own, and no object to exercise them
on but our fellow-men, there were feuds, tyrannies, wars, and general desolation.  In the Thirty
Years' War the population of Germany was starved and murdered down from sixteen millions to
less than five millions.

But since we have found field, room, and ample verge for the play of our forces in material
realms, and have acquired mastery of the superb forces of nature, we have come to an era of
peace.  We can now use our forces and those of nature with as real a sense of dominion and
mastery on material things, resulting in comfort, as formerly on our fellow-men, resulting
in ruin.  We now devote to the conquest of nature what we once devoted to the conquest of men.
There is a fascination in looking on force and its results.  Some men never stand in the presence
of an engine in full play without a feeling of reverence, as if they stood in the presence
of God--and they do.

The turning to these forces is a characteristic of our age that makes it an age of adventure
and discovery.  The heart of equatorial Africa has been explored, and soon the poles will hold
no undiscovered secrets.

Among the great monuments of power the mountains stand supreme.  All the cohesions, chemical
affinities, affections of metals, liquids, and gases are in full play, and the measureless
power of gravitation.  And yet higher forces have chasmed, veined, infiltrated, disintegrated,
molded, bent the rocky strata like sheets of paper, and lifted the whole mass miles in air
as if it were a mere bubble of gas.

The study of these powers is one of the fascinations of our time.  Let me ask you to enjoy
with me several of the greatest manifestations of force on this world of ours.

THE MONTE ROSA

Many of us in America know little of one of the great subjects of thought and endeavor in Europe.
We are occasionally surprised by hearing that such a man fell into a crevasse, or that four
men were killed on the Matterhorn, or five on the Lyskamm, and others elsewhere, and we wonder
why they went there.  The Alps are a great object of interest to all Europe.  I have now before
me a catalogue of 1,478 works on the Alps for sale by one bookseller.  It seems incredible.
In this list are over a dozen volumes describing different ascents of a single mountain, and
that not the most difficult.  There are publications of learned societies on geology, entomology,
paleontology, botany, and one volume of Philosophical and Religious Walks about Mont Blanc.
The geology of the Alps is a most perplexing problem.  The summit of the Jungfrau, for example,
consists of gneiss granite, but two masses of Jura limestone have been thrust into it, and
their ends folded over.

It is the habit, of the Germans especially, to send students into the Alps with a case for
flowers, a net for butterflies, and a box for bugs.  Every rod is a schoolhouse.  They speak
of the "snow mountains" with ardent affection.  Every Englishman, having no mountains at home,
speaks and feels as if he owned the Alps.  He, however, cares less for their flowers, bugs,
and butterflies than for their qualities as a gymnasium and a measure of his physical ability.
The name of every mountain or pass he has climbed is duly burnt into his Alpenstock, and the
said stock, well burnt over, is his pride in travel and a grand testimonial of his ability at home.

