It would be too tedious to mention in detail the other ships built for the White Star line.
The Adriatic and Celtic were made 17 feet 6 inches longer than the Oceanic, and a little sharper,
being 437 feet 6 inches keel, 41 feet beam, and 32 feet hold. The success of the Company had
been so great under the able management of Ismay, Imrie and Co., and they had secured so large
a share of the passengers and cargo, as well as of the mails passing between Liverpool and
New York, that it was found necessary to build two still larger and faster vessels--the Britannic
and Germanic: these were 455 feet in length; 45 feet in beam; and of 5000 indicated horse-power.
The Britannic was in the first instance constructed with the propeller fitted to work below
the line of keel when in deep water, by which means the "racing" of the engines was avoided.
When approaching shallow water, the propeller was raised by steam-power to the ordinary position
without any necessity for stopping the engines during the operation.  Although there was an
increase of speed by this means through the uniform revolutions of the machinery in the heaviest
sea, yet there was an objectionable amount of vibration at certain parts of the vessel, so
that we found it necessary to return to the ordinary fixed propeller, working in the line of
direction of the vessel.  Comfort at sea is of even more importance than speed; and although
we had succeeded in four small steamers working on the new principle, it was found better to
continue in the larger ships to resort to the established modes of propulsion.  It may happen
that at some future period the new method may yet be adopted with complete success.

Meanwhile competition went on with other companies.  Monopoly cannot exist between England
and America.  Our plans were followed; and sharper boats and heavier power became the rule
of the day.  But increase of horse-power of engines means increase of heating surface and largely
increased boilers, when we reach the vanishing point of profit, after which there is nothing
left but speed and expense.  It may be possible to fill a ship with boilers, and to save a
few hours in the passage from Liverpool to New York by a tremendous expenditure of coal; but
whether that will answer the purpose of any body of shareholders must be left for the future
to determine.

"Brute force" may be still further employed.  It is quite possible that recent "large strides"
towards a more speedy transit across the Atlantic may have been made "in the dark."

The last ships we have constructed for Ismay, Imrie and Co. have been of comparatively moderate
dimensions and power--the Arabic and Coptic, 430 feet long; and the Ionic and Boric, 440 feet
long, all of 2700 indicated horse-power.  These are large cargo steamers, with a moderate amount
of saloon accommodation, and a large space for emigrants.  Some of these are now engaged in
crossing the Pacific, whilst others are engaged in the line from London to New Zealand; the
latter being specially fitted up for carrying frozen meat.

To return to the operations of the Belfast shipbuilding yard.  A serious accident occurred
in the autumn of 1867 to the mail paddle-steamer the Wolf, belonging to the Messrs. Burns,
of Glasgow. When passing out of the Lough, about eight miles from Belfast, she was run into
by another steamer.  She was cut down and sank, and there she lay in about seven fathoms of
water; the top of her funnel and masts being only visible at low tide.  She was in a dangerous
position for all vessels navigating the entrance to the port, and it was necessary that she
should be removed, either by dynamite, gunpowder, or some other process. Divers were sent down
to examine the ship, and the injury done to her being found to be slight, the owners conferred
with us as to the possibility of lifting her and bringing her into port. Though such a process
had never before been accomplished, yet knowing her structure well, and finding that we might
rely upon smooth water for about a week or two in summer, we determined to do what we could
to lift the sunken vessel to the surface.

We calculated the probable weight of the vessel, and had a number of air-tanks expressly built
for her floatation.  These were secured to the ship with chains and hooks, the latter being
inserted through the side lights in her sheer strake.  Early in the following summer everything
was ready.  The air-tanks were prepared and rafted together. Powerful screws were attached
to each chain, with hand-pumps for emptying the tanks, together with a steam tender fitted
with cooking appliances, berths and stores, for all hands engaged in the enterprise. We succeeded
in attaching the hooks and chains by means of divers; the chains being ready coiled on deck.
But the weather, which before seemed to be settled, now gave way.  No sooner had we got the
pair of big tanks secured to the after body, than a fierce north-north-easterly gale set in,
and we had to run for it, leaving the tanks partly filled, in order to lessen the strain on
everything.

When the gale had settled, we returned again, and found that no harm had been done.  The remainder
of the hooks were properly attached to the rest of the tanks, the chains were screwed tightly
up, and the tanks were pumped clear.  Then the tide rose; and before high water we had the
great satisfaction of getting the body of the vessel under weigh, and towing her about a cable's
length from her old bed.  At each tide's work she was lifted higher and higher, and towed into
shallower water towards Belfast; until at length we had her, after eight days, safely in the
harbour, ready to enter the graving dock,--not more ready, however, than we all were for our
beds, for we had neither undressed nor shaved during that anxious time.  Indeed, our friends
scarcely recognised us on our return home.

The result of the enterprise was this.  The clean cut made into the bow of the ship by the
collision was soon repaired.  The crop of oysters with which she was incrusted gave place to
the scraper and the paintbrush.  The Wolf came out of the dock to the satisfaction both of
the owners and underwriters; and she was soon "ready for the road," nothing the worse for her
ten months' immersion.[2]

Meanwhile the building of new iron ships went on in the Queen's Island. We were employed by
another Liverpool Company--the British Shipowners' Company, Limited--to supply some large steamers.
The British Empire, of 3361 gross tonnage, was the same class of vessel as those of the White
Star line, but fuller, being intended for cargo.  Though originally intended for the Eastern
trade, this vessel was eventually placed on the Liverpool and Philadelphia line; and her working
proved so satisfactory that five more vessels were ordered like her, which were chartered to
the American Company.

The Liverpool agents, Messrs. Richardson, Spence, and Co., having purchased the Cunard steamer
Russia, sent her over to us to be lengthened 70 feet, and entirely refitted--another proof
of the rapid change which owners of merchant ships now found it necessary to adopt in view
of the requirements of modern traffic.

Another Liverpool firm, the Messrs. T. and J. Brocklebank, of world-wide repute for their fine
East Indiamen, having given up building for themselves at their yard at Whitehaven, commissioned
us to build for them the Alexandria, and Baroda, which were shortly followed by the Candahar
and Tenasserim.  And continuing to have a faith in the future of big iron sailing ships, they
further employed us to build for them two of yet greater tonnage, the Belfast and the Majestic.

Indeed, there is a future for sailing ships, notwithstanding the recent development of steam
power.  Sailing ships can still hold their own, especially in the transport of heavy merchandise
for great distances. They can be built more cheaply than steamers; they can be worked more
economically, because they require no expenditure on coal, nor on wages of engineers; besides,
the space occupied in steamers by machinery is entirely occupied by merchandise, all of which
pays its quota of freight.  Another thing may be mentioned: the telegraph enables the fact
of the sailing of a vessel, with its cargo on board, to be communicated from Calcutta or San
Francisco to Liverpool, and from that moment the cargo becomes as marketable as if it were
on the spot. There are cases, indeed, where the freight by sailing ship is even greater than
by steamer, as the charge for warehousing at home is saved, and in the meantime the cargo while
at sea is negotiable.

We have accordingly, during the last few years, built some of the largest iron and steel sailing
ships that have ever gone to sea. The aim has been to give them great carrying capacity and
fair speed, with economy of working; and the use of steel, both in the hull and the rigging,
facilitates the attainment of these objects.  In 1882 and 1883, we built and launched four
of these steel and iron sailing ships--the Waiter H. Wilson, the W. J. Pirrie, the Fingal,
and the Lord Wolseley--each of nearly 3000 tons register, with four masts,--the owners being
Mr. Lawther, of Belfast; Mr. Martin, of Dublin; and the Irish Shipowners Company.

Besides these and other sailing ships, we have built for Messrs. Ismay, Imrie and Co. the Garfield,
of 2347 registered tonnage; for Messrs. Thomas Dixon and Son, the Lord Downshire (2322); and
for Messrs. Bullock's Bay Line, the Bay of Panama (2365).

In 1880 we took in another piece of the land reclaimed by the Belfast Harbour Trust; and there,
in close proximity to the ship-yard, we manufacture all the machinery required for the service
of the steamers constructed by our firm.  In this way we are able to do everything "within
ourselves"; and the whole land now occupied by the works comprises about forty acres, with
ten building slips suitable for the largest vessels.

It remains for me to mention a Belfast firm, which has done so much for the town.  I mean the
Messrs. J.P. Corry and Co., who have always been amongst our best friends.  We built for them
their first iron sailing vessel, the Jane Porter, in 1860, and since then they have never failed
us.  They successfully established their "Star" line of sailing clippers from London to Calcutta,
all of which were built here.  They subsequently gave us orders for yet larger vessels, in
the Star of France and the Star of Italy.  In all, we have built for that firm eleven of their
well-known "Star" ships.

We have built five ships for the Asiatic Steam Navigation Company, Limited, each of from 1650
to 2059 tons gross; and we are now building for them two ships, each of about 3000 tons gross.
In 1883 we launched thirteen iron and steel vessels, of a registered tonnage of over 30,000
tons.  Out of eleven ships now building, seven are of steel.

Such is a brief and summary account of the means by which we have been enabled to establish
a new branch of industry in Belfast. It has been accomplished simply by energy and hard work.
We have been well-supported by the skilled labour of our artisans; we have been backed by the
capital and the enterprise of England; and we believe that if all true patriots would go and
do likewise, there would be nothing to fear for the prosperity and success of Ireland.

Footnotes for Chapter XI.

[1] Although Mr. Harland took no further steps with his lifeboat, the project seems well worthy
of a fair trial.  We had lately the pleasure of seeing the model launched and tried on the
lake behind Mr. Harland's residence at Ormiston, near Belfast.  The cylindrical lifeboat kept
perfectly water-tight, and though thrown into the water in many different positions--sometimes
tumbled in on its prow, at other times on its back (the deck being undermost), it invariably
righted itself. The screws fore and aft worked well, and were capable of being turned by human
labour or by steam power.  Now that such large freights of passengers are carried by ocean-going
ships, it would seem necessary that some such method should be adopted of preserving life at
sea; for ordinary lifeboats, which are so subject to destructive damage, are often of little
use in fires or shipwrecks, or other accidents on the ocean.

[2] A full account is given in the Illustrated London News of the 21st of October, 1868, with
illustrations, of the raising of the Wolf; and another, more scientific, is given in the Engineer
of the 16th of October, of the same year.

CHAPTER XII.  It seems to me that one does not need to know anything more than the twenty-four
letters to learn everything else that one wishes."--Edmund Stone to the Duke of Argyll. ('Pursuit
of Knowledge under Difficulties.')

"The British Census proper reckons twenty-seven and a half million in the home countries. 
What makes this census important is the quality of the units that compose it.  They are free
forcible men, in a country where life is safe, and has reached the greatest value.  They give
the bias to the current age; and that not by chance or by mass, but by their character, and
by the number of individuals among them of personal ability."--Emerson: English Traits.

From Belfast to the Highlands of Scotland is an easy route by steamers and railways.  While
at Birnam, near Dunkeld, I was reminded of some remarkable characters in the neighbourhood.
After the publication of the 'Scotch Naturalist' and 'Robert Dick,' I received numerous letters
informing me of many self-taught botanists and students of nature, quite as interesting as
the subjects of my memoirs.  Among others, there was John Duncan, the botanist weaver of Aberdeen,
whose interesting life has since been done justice to by Mr. Jolly; and John Sim of Perth,
first a shepherd boy, then a soldier, and towards the close of his life a poet and a botanist,
whose life, I was told, was "as interesting as a romance."

There was also Alexander Croall, Custodian of the Smith Institute at Stirling, an admirable
naturalist and botanist.  He was originally a hard-working parish schoolmaster, near Montrose.
During his holiday wanderings he collected plants for his extensive herbarium.  His accomplishments
having come under the notice of the late Sir William Hooker, he was selected by that gentleman
to prepare sets of the Plants of Braemar for the Queen and Prince Albert, which he did to their
entire satisfaction.  He gave up his school-mastership for an ill-paid but more congenial occupation,
that of Librarian to the Derby Museum and Herbarium. Some years ago, he was appointed to his
present position of Custodian to the Smith Institute--perhaps the best provincial museum and
art gallery in Scotland.

I could not, however, enter into the history of these remarkable persons; though I understand
there is a probability of Mr. Croall giving his scientific recollections to the world.  He
has already brought out a beautiful work, in four volumes, 'British Seaweeds, Nature-printed;'
and anything connected with his biography will be looked forward to with interest.

Among the other persons brought to my notice, years ago, were Astronomers in humble life. 
For instance, I received a letter from John Grierson, keeper of the Girdleness Lighthouse,
near Aberdeen, mentioning one of these persons as "an extraordinary character." "William Ballingall,"
he said, "is a weaver in the town of Lower Largo, Fifeshire; and from his early days he has
made astronomy the subject of passionate study.  I used to spend my school vacation at Largo,
and have frequently heard him expound upon his favourite subject.  I believe that very high
opinions have been expressed by scientific gentlemen regarding Ballingall's attainments.  They
were no doubt surprised that an individual with but a very limited amount of education, and
whose hours of labour were from five in the morning until ten or eleven at night, should be
able to acquire so much knowledge on so profound a subject.  Had he possessed a fair amount
of education, and an assortment of scientific instruments and books, the world would have heard
more about him.  Should you ever find yourself," my correspondent concludes, "in his neighbourhood,
and have a few hours to spare, you would have no reason to regret the time spent in his company."
I could not, however, arrange to pay the proposed visit to Largo; but I found that I could,
without inconvenience, visit another astronomer in the neighbourhood of Dunkeld.

In January 1879 I received a letter from Sheriff Barclay, of Perth, to the following effect:
"Knowing the deep interest you take in genius and merit in humble ranks, I beg to state to
you an extraordinary case. John Robertson is a railway porter at Coupar Angus station.  From
early youth he has made the heavens his study.  Night after night he looks above, and from
his small earnings he has provided himself with a telescope which cost him about 30L.  He sends
notices of his observations to the scientific journals, under the modest initials of 'J.R.'
He is a great favourite with the public; and it is said that he has made some observations
in celestial phenomena not before noticed. It does occur to me that he should have a wider
field for his favourite study.  In connection with an observatory, his services would be invaluable."

Nearly five years had elapsed since the receipt of this letter, and I had done nothing to put
myself in communication with the Coupar Angus astronomer.  Strange to say, his existence was
again recalled to my notice by Professor Grainger Stewart, of Edinburgh.  He said that if I
was in the neighbourhood I ought to call upon him, and that he would receive me kindly.  His
duty, he said, was to act as porter at the station, and to shout the name of the place as the
trains passed.  I wrote to John Robertson accordingly, and received a reply stating that he
would be glad to see me, and inclosing a photograph, in which I recognised a good, honest,
sensible face, with his person inclosed in the usual station porter's garb, "C.R. 1446."

I started from Dunkeld, and reached Coupar Angus in due time.  As I approached the station,
I heard the porter calling out, "Coupar Angus! change here for Blairgowrie!"[1]  It was the
voice of John Robertson.

I descended from the train, and addressed him at once:  after the photograph there could be
no mistaking him.  An arrangement for a meeting was made, and he called upon me in the evening.
I invited him to such hospitality as the inn afforded; but he would have nothing.  "I am much
obliged to you," he said; "but it always does me harm."  I knew at once what the "it" meant.
Then he invited me to his house in Causewayend Street.  I found his cottage clean and comfortable,
presided over by an evidently clever wife.  He took me into his sitting-room, where I inspected
his drawings of the sun-spots, made in colour on a large scale. In all his statements he was
perfectly modest and unpretending. The following is his story, so far as I can recollect, in
his own words:--

"Yes; I certainly take a great interest in astronomy, but I have done nothing in it worthy
of notice.  I am scarcely worthy to be called a day labourer in the science.  I am very well
known hereabouts, especially to the travelling public; but I must say that they think a great
deal more of me than I deserve.

"What made me first devote my attention to the subject of astronomy? Well, if I can trace it
to one thing more than another, it was to some evening lectures delivered by the late Dr. Dick,
of Broughty Ferry, to the men employed at the Craigs' Bleachfield Works, near Montrose, where
I then worked, about the year 1848.  Dr. Dick was an excellent lecturer, and I listened to
him with attention.  His instructions were fully impressed upon our minds by Mr. Cooper, the
teacher of the evening school, which I attended.  After giving the young lads employed at the
works their lessons in arithmetic, he would come out with us into the night--and it was generally
late when we separated--and show us the principal constellations, and the planets above the
horizon. It was a wonderful sight; yet we were told that these hundreds upon hundreds of stars,
as far as the eye could see, were but a mere vestige of the creation amidst which we lived.
I got to know the names of some of the constellations the Greater Bear, with 'the pointers'
which pointed to the Pole Star, Orion with his belt, the Twins, the Pleiades, and other prominent
objects in the heavens.  It was a source of constant wonder and surprise.

"When I left the Bleachfield Works, I went to Inverury, to the North of Scotland Railway, which
was then in course of formation; and for many years, being immersed in work, I thought comparatively
little of astronomy.  It remained, however, a pleasant memory.  It was only after coming to
this neighbourhood in 1854, when the railway to Blairgowrie was under construction, that I
began to read up a little, during my leisure hours, on the subject of astronomy.  I got married
the year after, since which time I have lived in this house.

"I became a member of a reading-room club, and read all the works of Dr. Dick that the library
contained:  his 'Treatise on the Solar System,' his 'Practical Astronomer,' and other works.
There were also some very good  popular works to which I was indebted for amusement as well
as instruction:  Chambers's 'Information for the People,' Cassell's 'Popular Educator,' and
a very interesting series of articles in the 'Leisure Hour,' by Edwin Dunkin of the Royal Observatory,
Greenwich.  These last papers were accompanied by maps of the chief constellations, so that
I had a renewed opportunity of becoming a little better acquainted with the geography of the
heavens.

"I began to have a wish for a telescope, by means of which I might be able to see a little
more than with my naked eyes.  But I found that I could not get anything of much use, short
of 20L. I could not for a long time feel justified in spending so much money for my own personal
enjoyment.  My children were then young and dependent upon me.  They required to attend school--for
education is a thing that parents must not neglect, with a view to the future.  However, about
the year 1875, my attention was called to a cheap instrument advertised by Solomon--what he
called his '5L. telescope.' I purchased one, and it tantalised me; for the power of the instrument
was such as to teach me nothing of the surface of the planets.  After using it for about two
years, I sold it to a student, and then found that I had accumulated enough savings to enable
me to buy my present instrument.  Will you come into the next room and look at it?"

I went accordingly into the adjoining room, and looked at the new telescope.  It was taken
from its case, put upon its tripod, and looked in beautiful condition.  It is a refractor,
made by Cooke and Sons of York.  The object glass is three inches; the focal length forty-three
inches; and the telescope, when drawn out, with the pancratic eyepiece attached, is about four
feet.  It was made after Mr. Robertson's directions, and is a sort of combination of instruments.

"Even that instrument," he proceeded, "good as it is for the money, tantalises me yet.  A look
through a fixed equatorial, such as every large observatory is furnished with is a glorious
view.  I shall never forget the sight that I got when at Dunecht Observatory, to which I was
invited through the kindness of Dr. Copeland, the Earl of Crawford and Balcarres' principal
astronomer.

"You ask me what I have done in astronomical research?  I am sorry to say I have been able
to do little except to gratify my own curiosity; and even then, as I say, I have been much
tantalised.  I have watched the spots on the sun from day to day through obscured glasses,
since the year 1878, and made many drawings of them.  Mr. Rand Capron, the astronomer, of Guildown,
Guildford, desired to see these drawings, and after expressing his satisfaction with them,
he sent them to Mr. Christie, Astronomer Royal, Greenwich.  Although photographs of the solar
surface were preferred, Mr. Capron thought that my sketches might supply gaps in the partially
cloudy days, as well as details which might not appear on the photographic plates.  I received
a very kind letter from Mr. Christie, in which he said that it would be very difficult to make
the results obtained from drawings, however accurate, at all comparable with those derived
from photographs; especially as regards the accurate size of the spots as compared with the
diameter of the sun.  And no doubt he is right.

"What, do I suppose, is the cause of these spots in the sun? Well, that is a very difficult
question to answer.  Changes are constantly going on at the sun's surface, or, I may rather
say, in the sun's interior, and making themselves apparent at the surface.  Sometimes they
go on with enormous activity; at other times they are more quiet.  They recur alternately in
periods of seven or eight weeks, while these again are also subject to a period of about eleven
years--that is, the short recurring outbursts go on for some years, when they attain a maximum,
from which they go on decreasing.  I may say that we are now (August 1883) at, or very near,
a maximum epoch.  There is no doubt that this period has an intimate connection with our auroral
displays; but I don't think that the influence sun-spots have on light or heat is perceptible.
Whatever influence they possess would be felt alike on the whole terrestrial globe.  We have
wet, dry, cold, and warm years, but they are never general.  The kind of season which prevails
in one country is often quite reversed in another perhaps in the adjacent one. Not so with
our auroral displays.  They are universal on both sides of the globe; and from pole to pole
the magnetic needle trembles during their continuance.  Some authorities are of opinion that
these eleven-year cycles are subject to a larger cycle, but sun-spot observations have not
existed long enough to determine this point.  For myself, I have a great difficulty in forming
an opinion.  I have very little doubt that the spots are depressions on the surface of the
sun. This is more apparent when the spot is on the limb.  I have often seen the edge very rugged
and uneven when groups of large spots were about to come round on the east side.  I have communicated
some of my observations to 'The Observatory,' the monthly review of astronomy, edited by Mr.
Christie, now Astronomer Royal,[2] as well as to The Scotsmam, and some of our local papers.[3]

"I have also taken up the observation of variable stars in a limited portion of the heavens.
That, and 'hunting for comets' is about all the real astronomical work that an amateur can
do nowadays in our climate, with a three-inch telescope.  I am greatly indebted to the Earl
of Crawford and Balcarres, who regularly sends me circulars of all astronomical discoveries,
both in this and foreign countries.  I will give an instance of the usefulness of these circulars.
On the morning of the 4th of October, 1880, a comet was discovered by Hartwig, of Strasburg,
in the constellation of Corona.  He telegraphed it to Dunecht Observatory, fifteen miles from
Aberdeen.  The circulars announcing the discovery were printed and despatched by post to various
astronomers.  My circular reached me by 7 P.M., and, the night being favourable, I directed
my telescope upon the part of the heavens indicated, and found the comet almost at once--that
is, within fifteen hours of the date of its discovery at Strasburg.

"In April, 1878, a large meteor was observed in broad daylight, passing from south to north,
and falling it was supposed, about twenty miles south of Ballater.  Mr. A. S. Herschel, Professor
of Physics in the College of Science, 'Newcastle-on-Tyne, published a letter in The Scotsmam,
intimating his desire to be informed of the particulars of the meteor's flight by those who
had seen it. As I was one of those who had observed the splendid meteor flash northwards almost
under the face of the bright sun (at 10.25 A.M.), I sent the Professor a full account of what
I had seen, for which he professed his strong obligations. This led to a very pleasant correspondence
with Professor Herschel. After this, I devoted considerable attention to meteors, and sent
many contributions to 'The Observatory' on the subject.[4]

"You ask me what are the hours at which I make my observations? I am due at the railway station
at six in the morning, and I leave at six in the evening; but I have two hours during the day
for meals and rest. Sometimes I get a glance at the heavens in the winter mornings when the
sky is clear, hunting for comets. My observations on the sun are usually made twice a day during
my meal hours, or in the early morning or late at evening in summer, while the sun is visible.
Yes, you are right; I try and make the best use of my time.  It is much too short for all that
I propose to do.  My evenings are my own.  When the heavens are clear, I watch them; when obscured,
there are my books and letters.

"Dr. Alexander Brown, of Arbroath, is one of my correspondents. I have sent him my drawings
of the rings of Saturn, of Jupiter's belt and satellites.  Dr. Ralph Copeland, of Dunecht,
is also a very good friend and adviser.  Occasionally, too, I send accounts of solar disturbances,
comet a within sight, eclipses, and occultations, to the Scotsman, the Dundee Evening Telegraph
and Evening News, or to the Blairgowrie Advertiser.  Besides, I am the local observer of meteorology,
and communicate regularly with Mr. Symons.  These things entirely fill up my time.

"Do I intend always to remain a railway porter?  Oh, yes; I am very comfortable! The company
are very kind to me, and I hope I serve them faithfully.  It is true Sheriff Barclay has, without
my knowledge, recommended me to several well-known astronomers as an observer.  But at my time
of life changes are not to be desired.  I am quite satisfied to go on as I am doing.  My young
people are growing up, and are willing to work for themselves. But come, sir," he concluded,
"come into the garden, and look at the moon through my telescope."

We went into the garden accordingly, but a cloud was over the moon, and we could not see it.
At the top of the garden was the self-registering barometer, the pitcher to measure the rainfall,
and the other apparatus necessary to enable the "Diagram of barometer, thermometer, rain, and
wind" to be conducted, so far as Coupar Angus is concerned.  This Mr. Robertson has done for
four years past.  As the hour was late, and as I knew that my entertainer must be up by six
next morning, I took my leave.

A man's character often exhibits itself in his amusements.  One must have a high respect for
the character of John Robertson, who looks at the manner in which he spends his spare time.
His astronomical work is altogether a labour of love.  It is his hobby; and the working man
may have his hobby as well as the rich.  In his case he is never less idle than when idle.
Some may think that he is casting his bread upon the waters, and that he may find it after
many days.  But it is not with this object that he carries on his leisure-hour pursuits.  Some
have tried--sheriff Barclay among others[5]--to obtain appointments for him in connection with
astronomical observation; others to secure advancement for him in his own line.  But he is
a man who is satisfied with his lot--one of the rarest things on earth. Perhaps it is by looking
so much up to the heavens that he has been enabled to obtain his portion of contentment.

Next morning I found him busy at the station, making arrangements for the departure of the
passenger train for Perth, and evidently upon the best of terms with everybody.  And here I
leave John Robertson, the contented Coupar Angus astronomer.

Some years ago I received from my friend Mr. Nasmyth a letter of introduction to the late Mr.
Cooke of York, while the latter was still living.  I did not present it at the time; but I
now proposed to visit, on my return homewards, the establishment which he had founded at York
for the manufacture of telescopes and other optical instruments. Indeed, what a man may do
for himself as well as for science, cannot be better illustrated than by the life of this remarkable
man.

Mr. Nasmyth says that he had an account from Cooke himself of his small beginnings.  He was
originally a shoemaker in a small country village. Many a man has risen to distinction from
a shoemaker's seat.  Bulwer, in his 'What will He do with It?' has discussed the difference
between shoemakers and tailors.  "The one is thrown upon his own resources, the other works
in the company of his fellows:  the one thinks, the other communicates. Cooke was a man of
natural ability, and he made the best use of his powers.  Opportunity, sooner or later, comes
to nearly all who work and wait, and are duly persevering.  Shoemaking was not found very productive;
and Cooke, being fairly educated as well as self-educated, opened a village school.  He succeeded
tolerably well. He taught himself geometry and mathematics, and daily application made him
more perfect in his studies.  In course of time an extraordinary ambition took possession of
him: no less than the construction of a reflecting telescope of six inches diameter.  The idea
would not let him rest until he had accomplished his purpose.  He cast and polished the speculum
with great labour; but just as he was about to finish it, the casting broke! What was to be
done?  About one-fifth had broken away, but still there remained a large piece, which he proceeded
to grind down to a proper diameter.  His perseverance was rewarded by the possession of a 3
1/2 inch speculum, which by his rare skill he worked into a reflecting telescope of very good
quality.

He was, however, so much annoyed by the treacherously brittle nature of the speculum metal
that he abandoned its use, and betook himself to glass.  He found that before he could make
a good achromatic telescope it was necessary that he should calculate his curves from data
depending upon the nature of the glass.  He accordingly proceeded to study the optical laws
of refraction, in which his knowledge of geometry and mathematics greatly helped him.  And
in course of time, by his rare and exquisite manipulative skill, he succeeded in constructing
a four-inch refractor, or achromatic telescope, of admirable defining power.

The excellence of his first works became noised abroad. Astronomical observers took an interest
in him; and friends began to gather round him, amongst others the late Professor Phillips and
the Rev. Vernon Harcourt, Dean of York.  Cooke received an order for a telescope like his own;
then he received other orders.  At last he gave up teaching, and took to telescope making.
He advanced step by step; and like a practical, thoughtful man, he invented special tools and
machinery for the purpose of grinding and polishing his glasses.  He opened a shop in York,
and established himself as a professed maker of telescopes.  He added to this the business
of a general optician, his wife attending to the sale in the shop, while he himself attended
to the workshop.

Such was the excellence of his work that the demand for his telescopes largely increased. 
They were not only better manufactured, but greatly cheaper than those which had before been
in common use.  Three of the London makers had before possessed a monopoly of the business;
but now the trade was thrown open by the enterprise of Cooke of York.  He proceeded to erect
a complete factory--the Buckingham Street works. His brother took charge of the grinding and
polishing of the lenses, while his sons attended to the mechanism of the workshop; but Cooke
himself was the master spirit of the whole concern. Everything that he did was good and accurate.
His clocks were about the best that could be made.  He carried out his clock-making business
with the same zeal that he devoted to the perfection of his achromatic telescopes.  His work
was always first-rate.  There was no scamping about it. Everything that he did was thoroughly
good and honest.  His 4 1/4-inch equatorials are perfect gems; and his admirable achromatics,
many of them of the largest class, are known all over the world.  Altogether, Thomas Cooke
was a remarkable instance of the power of Self-Help.

Such was the story of his Life, as communicated by Mr. Nasmyth. I was afterwards enabled, through
the kind assistance of his widow, Mrs. Cooke, whom I saw at Saltburn, in Yorkshire, to add
a few particulars to his biography.

"My husband," she said, "was the son of a working shoemaker at Pocklington, in the East Riding.
He was born in 1807.  His father's circumstances were so straitened that he was not able to
do much for him; but he sent him to the National school, where he received some education.
He remained there for about two years, and then he was put to his father's trade.  But he greatly
disliked shoemaking, and longed to get away from it.  He liked the sun, the sky, and the open
air.  He was eager to be a sailor, and, having heard of the voyages of Captain Cook, he wished
to go to sea.  He spent his spare hours in learning navigation, that he might be a good seaman.
But when he was ready to set out for Hull, the entreaties and tears of his mother prevailed
on him to give up the project; and then he had to consider what he should do to maintain himself
at home.

"He proceeded with his self-education, and with such small aids as he could procure, he gathered
together a good deal of knowledge.  He thought that he might be able to teach others. Everybody
liked him, for his diligence, his application, and his good sense.  At the age of seventeen
he was employed to teach the sons of the neighbouring farmers.  He succeeded so well that in
the following year he opened a village school at Beilby.  He went on educating himself, and
learnt a little of everything.  He next removed his school to Kirpenbeck, near Stamford Bridge;
and it was there," proceeded Mrs. Cooke, "that I got to know him, for I was one of his pupils."

"He first learned mathematics by buying an old volume at a bookstall, with a spare shilling.
That was before he began to teach.  He also got odd sheets, and read other books about geometry
and mathematics, before he could buy them; for he had very little to spare.  He studied and
learnt as much as he could.

He was very anxious to get an insight into knowledge.  He studied optics before he had any
teaching.  Then he tried to turn his knowledge to account.  While at Kirpenbeck he made his
first object-glass out of a thick tumbler bottom.  He ground the glass cleverly by hand; then
he got a piece of tin and soldered it together, and mounted the object-glass in it so as to
form a telescope.

"He next got a situation at the Rev. Mr. Shapkley's school in Micklegate, York, where he taught
mathematics.  He also taught in ladies' schools in the city, and did what he could to make
a little income.  Our intimacy had increased, and we had arranged to get married.  He was twenty-four,
and I was nineteen, when we were happily united.  I was then his pupil for life.

"Professor Phillips saw his first telescope, with the object-glass made out of the thick tumbler
bottom, and he was so much pleased with it that my husband made it over to him.  But he also
got an order for another, from Mr. Gray, solicitor, more by way of encouragement than because
Mr. Gray wanted it, for he was a most kind man.  The object-glass was of four-inch aperture,
and when mounted the defining power was found excellent.  My husband was so successful with
his telescopes that he went on from smaller to greater, and at length he began to think of
devoting himself to optics altogether.  His knowledge of mathematics had led him on, and friends
were always ready to encourage him in his pursuits.

"During this time he had continued his teaching at the school in the day-time; and he also
taught on his own account the sons of gentlemen in the evening: amongst others the sons of
Dr. Wake and Dr. Belcomb, both medical men.  He was only making about 100L. a year, and his
family was increasing.  It was necessary to be very economical, and I was careful of everything.
At length my uncle Milner agreed to advance about 100L. as a loan.  A shop was taken in Stonegate
in 1836, and provided with optical instruments.  I attended to the shop, while my husband worked
in the back premises.  To bring in a little ready money, I also took in lodgers.

"My husband now devoted himself entirely to telescope making and optics.  But he took in other
work.  His pumps were considered excellent; and he furnished all those used at the pump-room,
Harrogate. His clocks, telescope-driving[6] and others, were of the best.  He commenced turret-clock
making in 1852, and made many improvements in them.  We had by that time removed to Coney Street;
and in 1855 the Buckingham Works were established, where a large number of first-rate workmen
were employed.  A place was also taken in Southampton Street, London, in 1868, for the sale
of the instruments manufactured at York."

Thus far Mrs. Cooke.  It may be added that Thomas Cooke revived the art of making refracting
telescopes in England.  Since the discovery by Dollond, in 1758, of the relation between the
refractive and dispersive powers of different kinds of glass, and the invention by that distinguished
optician of the achromatic telescope, the manufacture of that instrument had been confined
to England, where the best flint glass was made.  But through the short-sighted policy of the
Government, an exorbitant duty was placed upon the manufacture of flint glass, and the English
trade was almost entirely stamped out.  We had accordingly to look to foreign countries for
the further improvement of the achromatic telescope, which Dollond had so much advanced.

A humble mechanic of Brenetz, in the Canton of Neufchatel, Switzerland, named Guinaud, having
directed his attention to the manufacture of flint glass towards the close of last century,
at length succeeded, after persevering efforts, in producing masses of that substance perfectly
free from stain, and therefore adapted for the construction of the object-glasses of telescopes.

Frauenhofer, the Bavarian optician, having just begun business, heard of the wonderful success
of Guinaud, and induced the Swiss mechanic to leave Brenetz and enter into partnership with
him at Munich in 1805.

The result was perfectly successful; and the new firm turned out some of the largest object-glasses
which had until then been made.  With one of these instruments, having an aperture of 9.9 inches,
Struve, the Russian astronomer, made some of his greatest discoveries.  Frauenhofer was succeeded
by Merz and Mahler, who carried out his views, and turned out the famous refractors of Pulkowa
Observatory in Russia, and of Harvard University in the United States.  These last two telescopes
contained object-glasses of fifteen inches aperture.

The pernicious impost upon flint glass having at length been removed by the English Government,
an opportunity was afforded to our native opticians to recover the supremacy which they had
so long lost.  It is to Thomas Cooke, more than to any other person, that we owe the recovery
of this manufacture.  Mr. Lockyer, writing in 1878, says: "The two largest and most perfectly
mounted refractors on the German form at present in existence are those at Gateshead and Washington,
U.S.  The former belongs to Mr. Newall, a gentleman who, connected with those who were among
the first to recognise the genius of our great English optician, Cooke, did not hesitate to
risk thousands of pounds in one great experiment, the success of which will have a most important
bearing upon the astronomy of the future."[7]

The progress which Mr. Cooke made in his enterprise was slow but steady.  Shortly after he
began business as an optician, he became dissatisfied with the method of hand-polishing, and
made arrangements to polish the object-glasses by machinery worked by steam power.  By this
means he secured perfect accuracy of figure.  He was also able to turn out a large quantity
of glasses, so as to furnish astronomers in all parts of the world with telescopes of admirable
defining power, at a comparatively moderate price.  In all his works he endeavoured to introduce
simplicity.  He left his mark on nearly every astronomical instrument.  He found the equatorial
comparatively clumsy; he left it nearly perfect.  His beautiful "dividing machine," for marking
divisions on the circles, four feet in diameter and altogether self-acting--which divides to
five minutes and reads off to five seconds is not the least of his triumphs.

The following are some of his more important achromatic telescopes.  In 1850, when he had been
fourteen years in business, he furnished his earliest patron, Professor Phillips, with an equatorial
telescope of 6 1/4 inches aperture.  His second (of 6 1/8) was supplied two years later, to
James Wigglesworth of Wakefield.  William Gray, Solicitor, of York, one of his earliest friends,
bought a 6 1/2-inch telescope in 1853. In the following year, Professor Pritchard of Oxford
was supplied with a 6 1/2-inch.  The other important instruments were as follows: in 1854,
Dr. Fisher, Liverpool, 6 inches; in 1855, H. L. Patterson, Gateshead, 7 1/4 inches; in 1858,
J. G. Barclay, Layton, Essex, 7 1/4 inches; in 1857, Isaac Fletcher, Cockermouth, 9 1/4 inches;
in 1858, Sir W. Keith Murray, Ochtertyre, Crieff, 9 inches; in 1859, Captain Jacob, 9 inches;
in 1860, James Nasmyth, Penshurst, 8 inches; in 1861, another telescope to J. G. Barclay, 10
inches; in 1864, the Rev. W. R. Dawes, Haddenham, Berks, 8 inches; and in 1867, Edward Crossley,
Bermerside, Halifax, 9 3/8 inches.

In 1855 Mr. Cooke obtained a silver medal at the first Paris Exhibition for a six-inch equatorial
telescope.[8]  This was the highest prize awarded.  A few years later he was invited to Osborne
by the late Prince Albert, to discuss with his Royal Highness the particulars of an equatorial
mounting with a clock movement, for which he subsequently received the order.  On its completion
he superintended the erection of the telescope, and had the honour of directing it to several
of the celestial objects for the Queen and the Princess Alice, and answered their many interesting
questions as to the stars and planets within sight.

Mr. Cooke was put to his mettle towards the close of his life.  A contest had long prevailed
among telescope makers as to who should turn out the largest refracting instrument.  The two
telescopes of fifteen inches aperture, prepared by Merz and Mahler, of Munich, were the largest
then in existence.  Their size was thought quite extraordinary. But in 1846, Mr. Alvan Clark,
of Cambridgeport, Massachusetts, U.S., spent his leisure hour's in constructing small telescopes.[9]
He was not an optician, nor a mathematician, but a portrait painter.  He possessed, however,
enough knowledge of optics and of mechanics, to enable him to make and judge a telescope. 
He spent some ten years in grinding lenses, and was at length enabled to produce objectives
equal in quality to any ever made.

In 1853, the Rev. W. E. Dawes--one of Mr. Cooke's customers--purchased an object-glass from
Mr. Clark.  It was so satisfactory that he ordered several others, and finally an entire telescope.
The American artist then began to be appreciated in his own country.  In 1860 he received an
order for a refractor of eighteen inches aperture, three inches greater than the largest which
had up to that time been made.  This telescope was intended for the Observatory of Mississippi;
but the Civil War prevented its being removed to the South; and the telescope was sold to the
Astronomical Society of Chicago and mounted in the Observatory of that city.

And now comes in the rivalry of Mr. Cooke of York, or rather of his patron, Mr. Newall of Gateshead.
At the Great Exhibition of London, in 1862, two large circular blocks of glass, about two inches
thick and twenty-six inches in diameter, were shown by the manufacturers, Messrs. Chance of
Birmingham.  These discs were found to be of perfect quality, and suitable for object-glasses
of the best kind.  At the close of the Exhibition, they were purchased by Mr. Newall, and transferred
to the workshops of Messrs. Cooke and Sons at York.  To grind and polish and mount these discs
was found a work of great labour and difficulty.  Mr. Lockyer says, "such an achievement marks
an epoch in telescopic astronomy, and the skill of Mr. Cooke and the munificence of Mr. Newall
will long be remembered."

When finished, the object-glass had an aperture of nearly twenty-five inches, and was of much
greater power than the eighteen-inch Chicago instrument.  The length of the tube was about
thirty-two feet.  The cast-iron pillar supporting the whole was nineteen feet in height from
the ground, and the weight of the whole instrument was about six tons. In preparing this telescope,
nearly everything, from its extraordinary size, had to be specially arranged.[10]  The great
anxiety involved in these arrangements, and the constant study and application told heavily
upon Mr. Cooke, and though the instrument wanted only a few touches to make it complete, his
health broke down, and he died on the 19th of October, 1868, at the comparatively early age
of sixty-two.

Mr. Cooke's death was felt, in a measure, to be a national loss. His science and skill had
restored to England the prominent position she had held in the time of Dollond; and, had he
lived, even more might have been expected from him.  We believe that the Gold Medal and Fellowship
of the Royal Society were waiting for him; but, as one of his friends said to his widow, "neither
worth nor talent avails when the great ordeal is presented to us."  In a letter from Professor
Pritchard, he said: "Your husband has left his mark upon his age.  No optician of modern times
has gained a higher reputation; and I for one do not hesitate to call his loss national; for
he cannot be replaced at present by any one else in his own peculiar line.  I shall carry the
recollection of the affectionate esteem in which I held Thomas Cooke with me to my grave. 
Alas! that he should be cut off just at the moment when he was about to reap the rewards due
to his unrivalled excellence.  I have said that F.R.S. and medals were to be his.  But he is,
we fondly trust, in a better and higher state than that of earthly distinction.  Best assured,
your husband's name must ever be associated with the really great men of his day.  Those who
knew him will ever cherish his memory."

Mr. Cooke left behind him the great works which he founded in Buckingham Street, York.  They
still give employment to a large number of skilled and intelligent artizans.  There I found
many important works in progress,--the manufacture of theodolites, of prismatic compasses (for
surveying), of Bolton's range finder, and of telescopes above all.  In the factory yard was
the commencement of the Observatory for Greenwich, to contain the late Mr. Lassell's splendid
two feet Newtonian reflecting telescope, which has been presented to the nation. Mr. Cooke's
spirit still haunts the works, which are carried on with the skill, the vigour, and the perseverance,
transmitted by him to his sons.

While at York, I was informed by Mr. Wigglesworth, the partner of Messrs. Cooke, of an energetic
young astronomer at Bainbridge, in the mountain-district of Yorkshire, who had not only been
able to make a telescope of his own, but was an excellent photographer. He was not yet thirty
years of age, but had encountered and conquered many difficulties.  This is a sort of character
which is more often to be met with in remote country places than in thickly-peopled cities.
In the country a man is more of an individual; in a city he is only one of a multitude.  The
country boy has to rely upon himself, and has to work in comparative solitude, while the city
boy is distracted by excitements.  Life in the country is full of practical teachings; whereas
life in the city may be degraded by frivolities and pleasures, which are too often the foes
of work.  Hence we have usually to go to out-of-the-way corners of the country for our hardest
brain-workers. Contact with the earth is a great restorer of power; and it is to the country
folks that we must ever look for the recuperative power of the nation as regards health, vigour,
and manliness.

Bainbridge is a remote country village, situated among the high lands or Fells on the north-western
border of Yorkshire.  The mountains there send out great projecting buttresses into the dales;
and the waters rush down from the hills, and form waterfalls or Forces, which Turner has done
so much to illustrate.  The river Bain runs into the Yore at Bainbridge, which is supposed
to be the site of an old Roman station. Over the door of the Grammar School is a mermaid, said
to have been found in a camp on the top of Addleborough, a remarkable limestone hill which
rises to the south-east of Bainbridge.  It is in this grammar-school that we find the subject
of this little autobiography. He must be allowed to tell the story of his life--which he describes
as 'Work: Good, Bad, and Indifferent--in his own words:

"I was born on November 20th, 1853.  In my childhood I suffered from ill-health.  My parents
let me play about in the open air, and did not put me to school until I had turned my sixth
year. One day, playing in the shoemaker's shop, William Farrel asked me if I knew my letters.
I answered 'No.'  He then took down a primer from a shelf, and began to teach me the alphabet,
at the same time amusing me by likening the letters to familiar objects in his shop.  I soon
learned to read, and in about six weeks I surprised my father by reading from an easy book
which the shoemaker had given me.

"My father then took me into the school, of which he was master, and my education may be said
fairly to have begun.  My progress, however, was very slow partly owing to ill-health, but
more, I must acknowledge, to carelessness and inattention.  In fact, during the first four
years I was at school, I learnt very little of anything, with the exception of reciting verses,
which I seemed to learn without any mental effort.  My memory became very retentive.  I found
that by attentively reading half a page of print, or more, from any of the school-books, I
could repeat the whole of it without missing a word.  I can scarcely explain how I did it;
but I think it was by paying strict attention to the words as words, and forming a mental picture
of the paragraphs as they were grouped in the book.  Certain, I am, that their sense never
made much impression on me, for, when questioned by the teacher, I was always sent to the bottom
of the class, though apparently I had learned my exercise to perfection.

"When I was twelve years old, I made the acquaintance of a very ingenious boy, who came to
our school.  Samuel Bridge was a born mechanic.  Though only a year older than myself, such
was his ability in the use of tools, that he could construct a model of any machine that he
saw.  He awakened in me a love of mechanical construction, and together we made models of colliery
winding-frames, iron-rolling mills, trip-hammers, and water-wheels.  Some of them were not
mere toys, but constructed to scale, and were really good working models.  This love of mechanical
construction has never left me, and I shall always remember with affection Samuel Bridge, who
first taught me to use the hammer and file.  The last I heard of him was in 1875, when he passed
his examination as a schoolmaster, in honours, and was at the head of his list.

"During the next two years, when between twelve and fourteen, I made comparatively slow progress
at school.  I remember having to write out the fourth commandment from memory.  The teacher
counted twenty-three mistakes in ten lines of my writing.  It will be seen from this, that,
as regards learning, I continued heedless and backward.  About this time, my father, who was
a good violinist, took me under his tuition. He made me practice on the violin about an hour
and a half a day.  I continued this for a long time.  But the result was failure.  I hated
the violin, and would never play unless compelled to do so.  I suppose the secret was that
I had no 'ear.'

"It was different with subjects more to my mind.  Looking over my father's books one day, I
came upon Gregory's 'Handbook of Inorganic Chemistry,' and began reading it.  I was fascinated
with the book, and studied it morning, noon, and night--in fact, every time when I could snatch
a few minutes.  I really believe that at one time I could have repeated the whole of the book
from memory.  Now I found the value of arithmetic, and set to work in earnest on proportion,
vulgar and decimal fractions, and, in fact, everything in school work that I could turn to
account in the science of chemistry.  The result of this sudden application was that I was
seized with an illness.  For some months I had incessant headache; my hair became dried up,
then turned grey, and finally came off.  Weighing myself shortly after my recovery, at the
age of fifteen, I found that I just balanced fifty-six pounds.  I took up mensuration, then
astronomy, working at them slowly, but giving the bulk of my spare time to chemistry.

"In the year 1869, when I was sixteen years old, I came across Cuthbert Bede's book, entitled
'Photographic Pleasures.' It is an amusing book, giving an account of the rise and progress
of photography, and at the same time having a good-natured laugh at it.  I read the book carefully,
and took up photography as an amusement, using some apparatus which belonged to my father,
who had at one time dabbled in the art.  I was soon able to take fair photographs.  I then
decided to try photography as a business.  I was apprenticed to a photographer, and spent four
years with him--one year at Northallerton, and three at Darlington.  When my employer removed
to Darlington, I joined the School of Art there.

"Having read an account of the experiments of M. E. Becquerel, a French savant, on photographing
in the colours of nature, my curiosity was awakened.  I carefully repeated his experiments,
and convinced myself that he was correct.  I continued my experiments in heliochromy for a
period of about two years, during which time I made many photographs in colours, and discovered
a method of developing the coloured image, which enabled me to shorten the exposure to one-fortieth
of the previously-required time.  During these experiments, I came upon some curious results,
which, I think, might puzzle our scientific men to account for.  For instance, I proved the
existence of black light, or rays of such a nature as to turn the rose-coloured surface of
the sensitive-plate black--that is, rays reflected from the black paint of drapery, produced
black in the picture, and not the effect of darkness. I was, like Becquerel, unable to fix
the coloured image without destroying the colours; though the plates would keep a long while
in the dark, and could be examined in a subdued, though not in a strong light.  The coloured
image was faint, but the colours came out with great truth and delicacy.

"I began to attend the School of Art at Darlington on the 6th of March, 1872.  I found, on
attempting to draw, that I had naturally a correct eye and hand; and I made such progress,
that when the students' drawings were examined, previously to sending them up to South Kensington,
all my work was approved.  I was then set to draw from the cast in chalk, although I had only
been at the school for a month.  I tried for all the four subjects at the May examination,
and was fortunate enough to pass three of them, and obtained as a prize Packett's 'Sciography.'
I worked hard during the next year, and sent up seventeen works; for one of these, the 'Venus
de Milo,' I gained a studentship.

"I then commenced the study of human anatomy, and began water-colour painting, reading all
the works upon art on which I could lay my hand. At the May examination of 1873, I completed
my second-grade certificate, and at the end of the year of my studentship, I accepted the office
of teacher in the School of Art.  This art-training created in me a sort of disgust for photography,
as I saw that the science of photography had really very little genuine art in it, and was
more allied to a mechanical pursuit than to an artistic one.  Now, when I look back on my past
ideas, I clearly see that a great deal of this disgust was due to my ignorance and self-conceit.

"In 1874, I commenced painting in tempora, and then in oil, copying the pictures lent to the
school from the South Kensington Art Library.  I worked also from still life, and began sketching
from nature in oil and water-colours, sometimes selling my work to help me to buy materials
for art-work and scientific experiments.  I was, however, able to do very little in the following
year, as I was at home suffering from sciatica.  For nine months I could not stand erect, but
had to hobble about with a stick.  This illness caused me to give up my teachership.

"Early in 1876 I returned to Darlington.  I went on with my art studies and the science of
chemistry; though I went no further in heliochromy. I pushed forward with anatomy.  I sent
about fifteen works to South Kensington, and gained as my third-grade prize in list A the 'Dictionary
of Terms used in Art' by Thomas Fairholt, which I found a very useful work.  Towards the end
of the year, my father, whose health was declining, sent for me home to assist him in the school.
I now commenced the study of Algebra and Euclid in good earnest, but found it tough work. 
My father, though a fair mathematician, was unable to give me any instruction; for he had been
seized with paralysis, from which he never recovered.  Before he died, he recommended me to
try for a schoolmaster's certificate; and I promised him that I would.  I obtained a situation
as master of a small village school, not under Government inspection; and I studied during
the year, and obtained a second class certificate at the Durham Diocesan College at Christmas,
1877.  Early in the following year, the school was placed under Government inspection, and
became a little more remunerative.

"I now went on with chemical analysis, making my own apparatus. Requiring an intense heat on
a small scale, I invented a furnace that burnt petroleum oil.  It was blown by compressed air.
After many failures, I eventually succeeded in bringing it to such perfection that in 7 1/2
minutes it would bring four ounces of steel into a perfectly liquefied state.  I next commenced
the study of electricity and magnetism; and then acoustics, light, and heat.  I constructed
all my apparatus myself, and acquired the art of glass-blowing, in order to make my own chemical
apparatus, and thus save expense.

"I then went on with Algebra and Euclid, and took up plane trigonometry; but I devoted most
of my time to electricity and magnetism.  I constructed various scientific apparatus--a syren,
telephones, microphones, an Edison's megaphone, as well as an electrometer, and a machine for
covering electric wire with cotton or silk.  A friend having lent me a work on artificial memory,
I began to study it; but the work led me into nothing but confusion, and I soon found that
if I did not give it up, I should be left with no memory at all.  I still went an sketching
from Nature, not so much as a study, but as a means of recruiting my health, which was far
from being good. At the beginning of 1881 I obtained my present situation as assistant master
at the Yorebridge Grammar School, of which the Rev. W. Balderston, M.A., is principal.

"Soon after I became settled here, I spent some of my leisure time in reading Emerson's 'Optics,'
a work I bought at an old bookstall.  I was not very successful with it, owing to my deficient
mathematical knowledge.  On the May Science Examinations of 1881 taking place at Newcastle-on-Tyne,
applied for permission to sit, and obtained four tickets for the following subjects:--Mathematics,
Electricity and Magnetism, Acoustics, Light and Heat, and Physiography.  During the preceding
month I had read up the first three subjects, but, being pressed for time, I gave up the idea
of taking physiography.  However, on the last night of the examinations, I had some conversation
with one of the students as to the subjects required for physiography.  He said, 'You want
a little knowledge of everything in a scientific way, and nothing much of anything.' I determined
to try, for 'nothing much of anything' suited me exactly.  I rose early next morning, and as
soon as the shops were open I went and bought a book on the subject, 'Outlines of Physiography,'
by W. Lawson, F.R.G.S.  I read it all day, and at night sat for the examination.  The results
of my examinations were, failure in mathematics, but second class advanced grade certificates
in all the others.  I do not attach any credit to passing in physiography, but merely relate
the circumstance as curiously showing what can be done by a good 'cram.'

"The failure in mathematics caused me to take the subject 'by the horns,' to see what I could
do with it.  I began by going over quadratic equations, and I gradually solved the whole of
those given in Todhunter's larger 'Algebra.' Then I re-read the progressions, permutations,
combinations; the binomial theorem, with indices and surds; the logarithmic theorem and series,
converging and diverging.  I got Todhunter's larger 'Plane Trigonometry,' and read it, with
the theorems contained in it; then his 'Spherical Trigonometry;' his 'Analytical Geometry,
of Two Dimensions,' and 'Conics.' I next obtained De Morgan's 'Differential and Integral Calculus,'
then Woolhouse's, and lastly, Todhunter's.  I found this department of mathematics difficult
and perplexing to the last degree; but I mastered it sufficiently to turn it to some account.
This last mathematical course represents eighteen months of hard work, and I often sat up the
whole night through.  One result of the application was a permanent injury to my sight.

"Wanting some object on which to apply my newly-acquired mathematical knowledge, I determined
to construct an astronomical telescope.  I got Airy's 'Geometrical Optics,' and read it through.
Then I searched through all my English Mechanic (a scientific paper that I take), and prepared
for my work by reading all the literature on the subject that I could obtain.  I bought two
discs of glass, of 6 1/2 inches diameter, and began to grind them to a spherical curve 12 feet
radius.  I got them hollowed out, but failed in fining them through lack of skill. This occurred
six times in succession; but at the seventh time the polish came up beautifully, with scarcely
a scratch upon the surface. Stopping my work one night, and it being starlight, I thought I
would try the mirror on a star.  I had a wooden frame ready for the purpose, which the carpenter
had made for me. Judge of my surprise and delight when I found that the star disc enlarged
nearly in the same manner from each side of the focal point, thus making it extremely probable
that I had accidentally hit on a near approach to the parabola in the curve of my mirror. And
such proved to be the case.  I have the mirror still, and its performance is very good indeed.

"I went no further with this mirror, for fear or spoiling it.  It is very slightly grey in
the centre, but not sufficiently so as to materially injure its performance.  I mounted it
in a wooden tube, placed it on a wooden stand, and used it for a time thus mounted; but getting
disgusted with the tremor and inconvenience I had to put up with, I resolved to construct for
it an iron equatorial stand.  I made my patterns, got them cast, turned and fitted them myself,
grinding all the working parts together with emery and oil, and fitted a tangent-screw motion
to drive the instrument in right ascension.  Now I found the instrument a pleasure to use;
and I determined to add to it divided circles, and to accurately adjust it to the meridian.
I made my circles of well-seasoned mahogany, with slips of paper on their edges, dividing them
with my drawing instruments, and varnishing them to keep out the wet.  I shall never forget
that sunny afternoon upon which I computed the hour-angle for Jupiter, and set the instrument
so that by calculation Jupiter should pass through the field of the instrument at 1h. 25m.
15s.  With my watch in my hand, and my eye to the eye-piece, I waited for the orb.  When his
glorious face appeared, almost in a direct line for the centre of the field, I could not contain
my joy, but shouted out as loudly as I could,--greatly to the astonishment of old George Johnson,
the miller, who happened to be in the field where I had planted my stand!

"Now, though I had obtained what I wanted--a fairly good instrument,--still I was not quite
satisfied; as I had produced it by a fortunate chance, and not by skill alone.  I therefore
set to work again on the other disc of glass, to try if I could finish it in such a way as
to excel the first one.  After nearly a year's work I found that I could only succeed in equalling
it. But then, during this time, I had removed the working of mirrors from mere chance to a
fair amount of certainty.  By bringing my mathematical knowledge to bear on the subject, I
had devised a method of testing and measuring my work which, I am happy to say, has been fairly
successful, and has enabled me to produce the spherical, elliptic, parabolic, or hyperbolic
curve in my mirrors, with almost unvarying success.  The study of the practical working of
specula and lenses has also absorbed a good deal of my spare time during the last two years,
and the work involved has been scarcely less difficult.  Altogether, I consider this last year
(1882-3) to mark the busiest period of my life.

"It will be observed that I have only given an account of those branches of study in which
I have put to practical test the deductions from theoretical reasoning.  I am at present engaged
on the theory of the achromatic object-glass, with regard to spherical chromatism--a subject
upon which, I believe, nearly all our text-books are silent, but one nevertheless of vital
importance to the optician.  I can only proceed very slowly with it, on account of having to
grind and figure lenses for every step of the theory, to keep myself in the right track; as
mere theorizing is apt to lead one very much astray, unless it be checked by constant experiment.
For this particular subject, lenses must be ground firstly to spherical, and then to curves
of conic sections, so as to eliminate spherical aberration from each lens; so that it will
be observed that this subject is not without its difficulties.

"About a month ago (September, 1883), I determined to put to the test the statement of some
of our theorists, that the surface of a rotating fluid is either a parabola or a hyperbola.
I found by experiment that it is neither, but an approximation to the tractrix (a modification
of the catenary), if anything definite; as indeed one, on thinking over the matter, might feel
certain it would be--the tractrix being the curve of least friction.

"In astronomy, I have really done very little beyond mere algebraical working of the fundamental
theorems, and a little casual observation of the telescope.  So far, I must own, I have taken
more pleasure in the theory and construction of the telescope, than in its use."

Such is Samuel Lancaster's history of the growth and development of his mind.  I do not think
there is anything more interesting in the 'Pursuit of Knowledge under Difficulties.' His life
has been a gallant endeavour to win further knowledge, though too much at the expense of a
constitution originally delicate.  He pursues science with patience and determination, and
wooes truth with the ardour of a lover.  Eulogy of his character would here be unnecessary;
but, if he takes due care of his health, we shall hear more of him.[11]

More astronomers in humble life!  There seems to to be no end of them. There must be a great
fascination in looking up to the heavens, and seeing those wondrous worlds careering in the
far-off infinite.  Let me look back to the names I have introduced in this chapter of autobiography.
First, there was my worthy porter friend at Coupar Angus station, enjoying himself with his
three-inch object-glass.  Then there was the shoemaker and teacher, and eventually the first-rate
maker of achromatic instruments.  Look also at the persons whom he supplied with his best telescopes.
Among them we find princes, baronets, clergymen, professors, doctors, solicitors, manufacturers,
and inventors.  Then we come to the portrait painter, who acquired the highest supremacy in
the art of telescope making; then to Mr. Lassell, the retired brewer, whose daughters presented
his instrument to the nation; and, lastly, to the extraordinary young schoolmaster of Bainbridge,
in Yorkshire.  And now before I conclude this last chapter, I have to relate perhaps the most
extraordinary story of all--that of another astronomer in humble life, in the person of a slate
counter at Port Penrhyn, Bangor, North Wales.

While at Birnam, I received a letter from my old friend the Rev. Charles Wicksteed, formerly
of Leeds, calling my attention to this case, and inclosing an extract from the letter of a
young lady, one of his correspondents at Bangor.  In that letter she said: "What you write
of Mr. Christmas Evans reminds me very much of a visit I paid a few evenings ago to an old
man in Upper Bangor.  He works on the Quay, but has a very decided taste for astronomy, his
leisure time being spent in its study, with a great part of his earnings.  I went there with
some friends to see an immense telescope, which he has made almost entirely without aid, preparing
the glasses as far as possible himself, and sending them away merely to have their concavity
changed.  He showed us all his treasures with the greatest delight, explaining in English,
but substituting Welsh when at a loss.  He has scarcely ever been at school, but has learnt
English entirely from books.  Among other things he showed us were a Greek Testament and a
Hebrew Bible, both of which he can read.  His largest telescope, which is several yards long,
he has named 'Jumbo,' and through it he told us he saw the snowcap on the pole of Mars.  He
had another smaller telescope, made by himself, and had a spectroscope in process of making.
He is now quite old, but his delight in his studies is still unbounded and unabated. It seems
so sad that he has had no right opportunity for developing his talent."

Mr. Wicksteed was very much interested in the case, and called my attention to it, that I might
add the story to my repertory of self-helping men.  While at York I received a communication
from Miss Grace Ellis, the young lady in question, informing me of the name of the astronomer--John
Jones, Albert Street, Upper Bangor--and intimating that he would be glad to see me any evening
after six.  As railways have had the effect of bringing places very close together in point
of time--making of Britain, as it were, one great town--and as the autumn was brilliant, and
the holiday season not at an end, I had no difficulty in diverging from my journey, and taking
Bangor on my way homeward. Starting from York in the morning, and passing through Leeds, Manchester,
and Chester, I reached Bangor in the afternoon, and had my first interview with Mr. Jones that
very evening.

I found him, as Miss Grace Ellis had described, active, vigorous, and intelligent; his stature
short, his face well-formed, his eyes keen and bright.  I was first shown into his little parlour
downstairs, furnished  with his books and some of his instruments; I was then taken to his
tiny room upstairs, where he had his big reflecting telescope, by means of which he had seen,
through the chamber window, the snowcap of Mars.  He is so fond of philology that I found he
had no fewer than twenty-six dictionaries, all bought out of his own earnings.  "I am fond
of all knowledge," he said--"of Reuben, Dan, and Issachar; but I have a favourite, a Benjamin,
and that is Astronomy.  I would sell all of them into Egypt, but preserve my Benjamin."  His
story is briefly as follows:--

"I was born at Bryngwyn Bach, Anglesey, in 1818, and I am sixty-five years old.  I got the
little education I have, when a boy.  Owen Owen, who was a cousin of my mother's, kept a school
at a chapel in the village of Dwyrain, in Anglesey.  It was said of Owen that he never had
more than a quarter of a year's schooling, so that he could not teach me much.  I went to his
school at seven, and remained with him about a year.  Then he left; and some time afterwards
I went for a short period to an old preacher's school, at Brynsieneyn chapel.  There I learnt
but little, the teacher being negligent.  He allowed the children to play together too much,
and he punished them for slight offences, making them obstinate and disheartened.  But I remember
his once saying to the other children, that I ran through my little lesson 'like a coach.'
However, when I was about twelve years old, my father died, and in losing him I lost almost
all the little I had learnt during the short periods I had been at school.  Then I went to
work for the farmers.

"In this state of ignorance I remained for years, until the time came when on Sunday I used
to saddle the old black mare for Cadwalladr Williams, the Calvinist Methodist preacher, at
Pen Ceint, Anglesey; and after he had ridden away, I used to hide in his library during the
sermon, and there I learnt a little that I shall not soon forget.  In that way I had many a
draught of knowledge, as it were, by stealth. Having a strong taste for music, I was much attracted
by choral singing; and on Sundays and in the evenings I tried to copy out airs from different
books, and accustomed my hand a little to writing.  This tendency was, however, choked within
me by too much work with the cattle, and by other farm labour.  In a word, I had but little
fair weather in my search for knowledge.  One thing enticed me from another, to the detriment
of my plans; some fair Eve often standing with an apple in hand, tempting me to taste of that.

"The old preacher's books at Pen Ceint were in Welsh.  I had not yet learned English, but tried
to learn it by comparing one line in the English New Testament with the same line in the Welsh.
This was the Hamiltonian method, and the way in which I learnt most languages.  I first got
an idea of astronomy from reading 'The Solar System,' by Dr. Dick, translated into Welsh by
Eleazar Roberts of Liverpool.  That book I found on Sundays in the preacher's library; and
many a sublime thought it gave me.  It was comparatively easy to understand.

"When I was about thirty I was taken very ill, and could no longer work.  I then went to Bangor
to consult Dr. Humphrys. After I got better I found work at the Port at 12s. a week.  I was
employed in counting the slates, or loading the ships in the harbour from the railway trucks.
I lodged in Fwn Deg, near where Hugh Williams, Gatehouse, then kept a navigation school for
young sailors.  I learnt navigation, and soon made considerable progress.  I also learnt a
little arithmetic.  At first nearly all the young men were more advanced than myself; but before
I left matters were different, and the Scripture words became verified--"the last shall be
first."  I remained with Hugh Williams six months and a half.  During that time I went twice
through the 'Tutor's Assistant,' and a month before I left I was taught mensuration.  That
is all the education I received, and the greater part of it was during my by-hours.

"I got to know English pretty well, though Welsh was the language of those about me.  From
easy books I went to those more difficult.  I was helped in my pronunciation of English by
comparing the words with the phonetic alphabet, as published by Thomas Gee of Denbigh, in 1853.
With my spare earnings I bought books, especially when my wages began to rise.  Mr. Wyatt,
the steward, was very kind, and raised my pay from time to time at his pleasure.  I suppose
I was willing, correct, and faithful.  I improved my knowledge by reading books on astronomy.
I got, amongst others, 'The Mechanism of the Heavens,' by Denison Olmstead, an American; a
very understandable book.  Learning English, which was a foreign language to me, led me to
learn other languages.  I took pleasure in finding out the roots or radixes of words, and from
time to time I added foreign dictionaries to my little library.  But I took most pleasure in
astronomy.

"The perusal of Sir John Herschel's 'Outlines of Astronomy,' and of his 'Treatise on the Telescope,'
set my mind on fire.  I conceived the idea of making a telescope of my own, for I could not
buy one.  While reading the Mechanics' Magazine I observed the accounts of men who made telescopes.
Why should not I do the same?  Of course it was a matter of great difficulty to one who knew
comparatively little of the use of tools.  But I had a willing mind and willing hands.  So
I set to work. I think I made my first telescope about twenty years ago.  It was thirty-six
inches long, and the tube was made of pasteboard.  I got the glasses from Liverpool for 4s.
6d.  Captain Owens, of the ship Talacra, bought them.  He also bought for me, at a bookstall,
the Greek Lexicon and the Greek New Testament, for which he paid 7s. 6d.  With my new telescope
I could see Jupiter's four satellites, the craters on the moon, and some of the double stars.
It was a wonderful pleasure to me.

"But I was not satisfied with the instrument.  I wanted a bigger and a more perfect one.  I
sold it and got new glasses from Solomon of London, who was always ready to trust me.  I think
it was about the year 1868 that I began to make a reflecting telescope.  I got a rough disc
of glass, from St. Helens, of ten inches diameter.  It took me from nine to ten days to grind
and polish it ready for parabolising and silvering.  I did this by hand labour with the aid
of emery, but without a lathe.  I finally used rouge instead of emery in grinding down the
glass, until I could see my face in the mirror quite plain.  I then sent the 8 3/16 inch disc
to Mr. George Calver, of Chelmsford, to turn my spherical curve to a parabolic curve, and to
silver the mirror, for which I paid him 5L.  I mounted this in my timber tube; the focus was
ten feet.  When everything was complete I tried my instrument on the sky, and found it to have
good defining power.  The diameter of the other glass I have made is a little under six inches.

"You ask me if their performance satisfies me?  Well; I have compared my six-inch reflector
with a 4 1/4 inch refractor, through my window, with a power of 100 and 140.  I can't say which
was the best.  But if out on a clear night I think my reflector would take more power than
the refractor.  However that may be, I saw the snowcap on the planet Mars quite plain; and
it is satisfactory to me so far.  With respect to the 8 3/16 inch glass, I am not quite satisfied
with it yet; but I am making improvements, and I believe it will reward my labour in the end."

Besides these instruments John Jones has an equatorial which is mounted on a tripod stand,
made by himself.  It contains the right ascension, declination, and azimuth index, all neatly
carved upon slate.  In his spectroscope he makes his prisms out of the skylights used in vessels.
These he grinds down to suit his purpose.  I have not been able to go into the complete detail
of the manner in which he effects the grinding of his glasses. It is perhaps too technical
to be illustrated in words, which are full of focuses, parabolas, and convexities.  But enough
may be gathered from the above account to give an idea of the wonderful tenacity of this aged
student, who counts his slates into the ships by day, and devotes his evenings to the perfecting
of his astronomical instruments.  But not only is he an astronomer and a philologist; he is
also a bard, and his poetry is much admired in the district.  He writes in Welsh, not in English,
and signs himself "Ioan, of Bryngwyn Bach," the place where he was born. Indeed, he is still
at a loss for words when he speaks in English.  He usually interlards his conversation with
passages in Welsh, which is his mother-tongue.  A friend has, however, done me the favour to
translate two of John Jones's poems into English. The first is 'The Telescope':--

  "To Heaven it points, where rules the Sun
  In golden gall'ries bright;
  And the pale Moon in silver rays
  Makes dalliance in the night.

  "It sweeps with eagle glances
  The sky, its myriad throng,
  That myriad throng to marshal
  And bring to us their song.

  "Orb upon orb it follows
  As oft they intertwine,
  And worlds in vast processions
  As if in battle line.

  "It loves all things created,
  To follow and to trace;
  And never fears to penetrate
  The dark abyss of space."

The next is to 'The Comet':--

  "A maiden fair, with light of stars bedecked,
  Starts out of space at Jove's command;
  With visage wild, and long dishevelled hair,
  Speeds she along her starry course;
  The hosts of heaven regards she not,--
  Fain would she scorn them all except her father Sol,
  Whose mighty influence her headlong course doth all control."

The following translation may also be given: it shows that the bard is not without a spice
of wit.  A fellow-workman teased him to write some lines; when John Jones, in a seemingly innocent
manner, put some questions, and ascertained that he had once been a tailor.  Accordingly this
epigram was written, and appeared in the local paper the week after: "To a quondam Tailor,
now a Slate-teller":--

  "To thread and needle now good-bye,
  With slates I aim at riches;
  The scissors will I ne'er more ply,
  Nor make, but order, breeches."[12]

The bi-lingual speech is the great educational difficulty of Wales.  To get an entrance into
literature and science requires a knowledge of English; or, if not of English, then of French
or German.  But the Welsh language stands in the way.  Few literary or scientific works are
translated into Welsh.  Hence the great educational difficulty continues, and is maintained
from year to year by patriotism and Eisteddfods.

Possibly the difficulties to be encountered may occasionally evoke unusual powers of study;
but this can only occur in exceptional cases. While at Bangor Mr. Cadwalladr Davies read to
me the letter of a student and professor, whose passion for knowledge is of an extraordinary
character.  While examined before the Parliamentary Committee appointed to inquire into the
condition of intermediate and higher education in Wales and Monmouthshire, Mr. Davies gave
evidence relating to this and other remarkable cases, of which the following is an abstract,
condensed by himself:--

"The night schools in the quarry districts have been doing a very great work; and, if the Committee
will allow me, I will read an extract from a letter which I received from Mr. Bradley Jones,
master of the Board Schools at Llanarmon, near Mold, Flintshire, who some years ago kept a
very flourishing night school in the neighbourhood.  He says: 'During the whole of the time
(fourteen years) that I was at Carneddi, I carried on these schools, and I believe I have had
more experience of such institutions than any teacher in North Wales.  For several years about
120 scholars used to attend the Carneddi night school in the winter months, four evenings a
week.  Nearly all were quarrymen, from fourteen to twenty-one years of age, and engaged at
work from 7 A.M. to 5.30 P.M.  So intense was their desire for education that some of them
had to walk a distance of two or even three miles to school. These, besides working hard all
day, had to walk six miles in the one case and nine in the other before school-time, in addition
to the walk home afterwards.  Several of them used to attend all the year round, even coming
to me for lessons in summer before going to work, as well as in the evening.  Indeed, so anxious
were some of them, that they would often come for lessons as early as five o'clock in the morning.
This may appear almost incredible, but any of the managers of the Carneddi School could corroborate
the statement.'

"I have now in my mind's eye," continues Mr. Bradley, "several of these young men, who, by
dint of indefatigable labour and self-denial, ultimately qualified themselves for posts in
which a good education is a sine qua non.  Some of them are to-day quarry managers, professional
men, certificated teachers, and ministers of the Gospel.  Five of them are at the present time
students at Bala College.  One got a situation in the Glasgow Post Office as letter-carrier.
During his leisure hours he attended the lectures at one of the medical schools of that city,
and in course of time gained his diploma.  He is now practising as a surgeon, and I understand
with signal success.  This gentleman worked in the Penrhyn Quarry until he was twenty years
old.  I could give many more instances of the resolute and self-denying spirit with which the
young quarrymen of Bethesda sought to educate themselves.  The teachers of the other schools
in that neighbourhood could give similar examples, for during the winter months there used
to be no less than 300 evening scholars under instruction in the different schools.  The Bethesda
booksellers could tell a tale that would surprise our English friends. I have been informed
by one of them that he has sold to young quarrymen an immense number of such works as Lord
Macaulay's, Stuart Mill's, and Professor Fawcett's; and it is no uncommon sight to find these
and similar works read and studied by the young quarrymen during the dinner hour."

"I can give," proceeds Mr. Cadwalladr Davies, "one remarkable instance to show the struggles
which young Welshmen have to undertake in order to get education.  The boy in question, the
son of 'poor but honest parents,' left the small national school of his native village when
he was 12 1/2 years of age, and then followed his father's occupation of shoemaking until he
was 16 1/2 years of age.  After working hard at his trade for four years, he, his brother,
and two fellow apprentices, formed themselves into a sort of club to learn shorthand, the whole
matter being kept a profound secret.  They had no teachers, and they met at the gas-works,
sitting opposite the retorts on a bench supported at each end with bricks.  They did not penetrate
far into the mysteries of Welsh shorthand; they soon abandoned the attempt, and induced the
village schoolmaster to open a night school.

"This, however, did not last long.  The young Crispin was returning late one night from Llanrwst
in company with a lad of the same age, and both having heard much of the blessings of education
from a Scotch lady who took a kindly interest in them, their ambition was inflamed, and they
entered into a solemn compact that they would thenceforward devote themselves body and soul
to the attainment of an academical degree. Yet they were both poor.  One was but a shoemaker's
apprentice, while the other was a pupil teacher earning but a miserable weekly pittance. One
could do the parts of speech; the other could not.  One had struggled with the pans asinorum;
the other had never seen it.  I may mention that the young pupil teacher is now a curate in
the Church of England.  He is a graduate of Cambridge University and a prizeman of Clare College.
But to return to the little shoemaker.

"After returning home from Llanrwst, he disburthened his heart to his mother, and told her
that shoemaking, which until now he had pursued with extraordinary zest, could no longer interest
him. His mother, who was equal to the emergency, sent the boy to a teacher of the old school,
who had himself worked his way from the plough.  After the exercise of considerable diplomacy,
an arrangement was arrived at whereby the youth was to go to school on Mondays, Wednesdays,
and Fridays, and make shoes during the remaining days of the week.  This suited him admirably.
That very night he seized upon a geography, and began to learn the counties of England and
Wales.  The fear of failure never left him for two hours together, except when he slept.  The
plan of work was faithfully kept; though by this time shoemaking had lost its charms.  He shortened
his sleeping hours, and rose at any moment that he awoke--at two, three, or four in the morning.
He got his brother, who had been plodding with him over shorthand, to study horticulture, and
fruit and vegetable culture; and that brother shortly after took a high place in an examination
held by the Royal Horticultural Society.  For a time, however, they worked together; and often
did their mother get up at four o'clock in the depth of winter, light their fire, and return
to bed after calling them up to the work of self-culture.  Even this did not satisfy their
devouring ambition. There was a bed in the workshop, and they obtained permission to sleep
there.  Then they followed their own plans.  The young gardener would sit up till one or two
in the morning, and wake his brother, who had gone to bed as soon as he had given up work the
night before.

Now he got up and studied through the small hours of the morning until the time came when he
had to transfer his industry to shoemaking, or go to school on the appointed days after the
distant eight o'clock had come.  His brother had got worn out. Early sleep seemed to be the
best. They then both went to bed about eight o'clock, and got the policeman to call them up
before retiring himself.

"So the struggle went on, until the faithful old schoolmaster thought that his young pupil
might try the examination at the Bangor Normal College.  He was now eighteen years of age;
and it was eighteen months since the time when he began to learn the counties of England and
Wales.  He went to Bangor, rigged out in his brother's coat and waistcoat, which were better
than his own; and with his brother's watch in his pocket to time himself in his examinations.
He went through his examination, but returned home thinking he had failed.  Nevertheless, he
had in the meantime, on the strength of a certificate which he had obtained six months before,
in an examination held by the Society of Arts and Sciences in Liverpool, applied for a situation
as teacher in a grammar-school at Ormskirk in Lancashire.  He succeeded in his application,
and had been there for only eight days when he received a letter from Mr. Rowlands, Principal
of the Bangor Normal College, informing him that he had passed at the head of the list, and
was the highest non-pupil teacher examined by the British and Foreign Society. Having obtained
permission from his master to leave, he packed his clothes and his few books.  He had not enough
money to carry him home; but, unasked, the master of the school gave him 10s.  He arrived home
about three o'clock on a Sunday morning, after a walk of eleven miles over a lonely road from
the place where the train had stopped.  He reeled on the way, and found the country reeling
too.  He had been sleeping eight nights in a damp bed.  Six weeks of the Bangor Session passed,
and during that time he had been delirious, and was too weak to sit up in bed.  But the second
time he crossed the threshold of his home he made for Bangor and got back his "position," which
was all important to him, and he kept it all through.

"Having finished his course at Bangor he went to keep a school at Brynaman; he endeavoured
to study but could not.  After two years he gave up the school, and with 60L. saved he faced
the world once more. There was a scholarship of the value of 40L. a year, for three years,
attached to one of the Scotch Universities, to be competed for.  He knew the Latin Grammar,
and had, with help, translated one of the books of Caesar.  Of Greek he knew nothing, save
the letters and the first declension of nouns; but in May he began to read in earnest at a
farmhouse.  He worked every day from 6 A.M. to 12 P.M. with only an hour's intermission.  He
studied the six Latin and two Greek books prescribed; he did some Latin composition unaided;
brushed up his mathematics; and learnt something of the history of Greece and Rome. In October,
after five months of hard work, he underwent an examination for the scholarship, and obtained
it; beating his opponent by twenty-eight marks in a thousand.  He then went up to the Scotch
University and passed all the examinations for his ordinary M.A. degree in two years and a
half.  On his first arrival at the University he found that he could not sleep; but he wearily
yet victoriously plodded on; took a prize in Greek, then the first prize in philosophy, the
second prize in logic, the medal in English literature, and a few other prizes.

"He had 40L. when he first arrived in Scotland; and he carried away with him a similar sum
to Germany, whither he went to study for honours in philosophy.  He returned home with little
in his pocket, borrowing money to go to Scotland, where he sat for honours and for the scholarship.
He got his first honours, and what was more important at the time, money to go on with.  He
now lives on the scholarship which he took at that time; is an assistant professor; and, in
a fortnight, will begin a course of lectures for ladies in connection with his university.
Writing to me a few days ago,[13] he says, 'My health, broken down with my last struggle, is
quite restored, and I live with the hope of working on.  Many have worked more constantly,
but few have worked more intensely.  I found kindness on every hand always, but had I failed
in a single instance I should have met with entire bankruptcy. The failure would have been
ruinous.... I thank God for the struggle, but would not like to see a dog try it again.  There
are droves of lads in Wales that would creep up but they cannot.  Poverty has too heavy a hand
for them.'"

The gentleman whose brief history is thus summarily given by Mr. Davies, is now well known
as a professor of philosophy; and, if his health be spared, he will become still better known.
He is the author of several important works on 'Moral Philosophy,' published by a leading London
firm; and more works are announced from his pen.  The victorious struggle for knowledge which
we have recounted might possibly be equalled, but it could not possibly be surpassed.  There
are, however, as Mr. Davies related to the Parliamentary Committee, many instances of Welsh
students--most of them originally quarrymen--who keep themselves at school by means of the
savings effected from manual labour, "in frequent cases eked out and helped by the kindness
of friends and neighbours," who struggle up through many difficulties, and eventually achieve
success in the best sense of the term.  "One young man"--as the teacher of a grammar-school,
within two miles of Bangor, related to Mr. Davies--"who came to me from the quarry some time
ago, was a gold medallist at Edinburgh last winter;" and contributions are readily made by
the quarrymen to help forward any young man who displays an earnest desire for knowledge in
science and literature.

It is a remarkable fact that the quarrymen of Carnarvonshire have voluntarily contributed large
sums of money towards the establishment of the University College in North Wales--the quarry
districts in that county having contributed to that fund, in the course of three years, mostly
in half-crown subscriptions, not less than 508L. 4s. 4d.--"a fact," says Mr. Davies, "without
its parallel in the history of the education of any country;" the most striking feature being,
that these collections were made in support of an institution from which the quarrymen could
only very remotely derive any benefit.

While I was at Bangor, on the 24th of August, 1883, the news arrived that the Committee of
Selection had determined that Bangor should be the site for the intended North Wales University
College.  The news rapidly spread, and great rejoicings prevailed throughout the borough, which
had just been incorporated.  The volunteer band played through the streets; the church bells
rang merry peals; and gay flags were displayed from nearly every window.  There never was such
a triumphant display before in the cause of University education.

As Mr. Cadwalladr Davies observed at the banquet, which took place on the following day: "The
establishment of the new institution will mark the dawn of a new era in the history of the
Welsh people.  He looked to it, not only as a means of imparting academical knowledge to the
students within its walls, but also as a means of raising the intellectual and moral tone of
the whole people.  They were fond of quoting the saying of a great English writer, that there
was something Grecian in the Celtic race, and that the Celtic was the refining element in the
British character; but such remarks, often accompanied as they were with offensive comparisons
from Eisteddfod platforms, would in future be put to the test, for they would, with their new
educational machinery, be placed on a footing of perfect equality with the Scotch and the Irish
people."

And here must come to an end the character history of my autumn tour in Ireland, Scotland,
Yorkshire, and Wales.  I had not the remotest intention when setting out of collecting information
and writing down my recollections of the journey.  But the persons I met, and the information
I received, were of no small interest--at least to myself; and I trust that the reader will
derive as much pleasure from perusing my observations as I have had in collecting and writing
them down.  I do think that the remarkable persons whose history and characters I have endeavoured,
however briefly, to sketch, will be found to afford many valuable and important lessons of
Self-Help; and to illustrate how the moral and industrial foundations of a country may be built
up and established.

Footnotes for Chapter XII.

[1] A "poet," who dates from "New York, March 1883," has published seven stanzas, entitled
"Change here for Blairgowrie," from which we take the following:--

  "From early morn till late at e'en,
  John's honest face is to be seen,
  Bustling about the trains between,
  Be 't sunshine or be 't showery;
  And as each one stops at his door,
  He greets it with the well-known roar
  Of 'Change here for Blairgowrie.'
  Even when the still and drowsy night
  Has drawn the curtains of our sight,
  John's watchful eyes become more bright,
  And take another glow'r aye
  Thro' yon blue dome of sparkling stars
  Where Venus bright and ruddy Mars
  Shine down upon Blairgowrie.
  He kens each jinkin' comet's track,
  And when it's likely to come back,
  When they have tails, and when they lack--
  In heaven the waggish power aye;
  When Jupiter's belt buckle hings,
  And the Pyx mark on Saturn's rings,
  He sees from near Blairgowrie."

[2] The Observatory, No. 61, p. 146; and No. 68, p. 371.

[3] In an article on the subject in the Dundee Evening Telegraph, Mr. Robertson observes: 
"If our finite minds were more capable of comprehension, what a glorious view of the grandeur
of the Deity would be displayed to us in the contemplation of the centre and source of light
and heat to the solar system.  The force requisite to pour such continuous floods to the remotest
parts of the system must ever baffle the mind of man to grasp.  But we are not to sit down
in indolence: our duty is to inquire into Nature's works, though we can never exhaust the field.
Our minds cannot imagine motion without some Power moving through the medium of some subordinate
agency, ever acting on the sun, to send such floods of light and heat to our otherwise cold
and dark terrestrial ball; but it is the overwhelming magnitude of such power that we are incapable
of comprehending.  The agency necessary to throw out the floods of flame seen during the few
moments of a total eclipse of the sun, and the power requisite to burst open a cavity in its
surface, such as could entirely engulph our earth, will ever set all the thinking capacity
of man at nought."

[4] The Observatory, Nos. 34, 42, 45, 49, and 58.

[5] We regret to say that Sheriff Barclay died a few months ago, greatly respected by all who
knew him.

[6] Sir E. Denison Beckett, in his Rudimentary Treatise on clocks and Watches and Bells, has
given an instance or the telescope-driving clock, invented by Mr. Cooke (p. 213).

[7] J. Norman Lockyer, F.R.S.--Stargazing, Past and Present, p. 302.

[8] This excellent instrument is now in the possession of my son-in-law, Dr. Hartree, of Leigh,
near Tunbridge.

[9] An interesting account of Mr. Alvan Clark is given in Professor Newcomb's 'Popular Astronomy,'
p. 137.

[10] A photographic representation of this remarkable telescope is given as the frontispiece
to Mr. Lockyer's Stargazing, Past and Present; and a full description of the instrument is
given in the text of the same work.  This refracting telescope did not long remain the largest.
Mr. Alvan Clark was commissioned to erect a larger equatorial for Washington Observatory; the
object-glass (the rough disks of which were also furnished by Messrs. Chance of Birmingham)
exceeding in aperture that of Mr. Cooke's by only one inch.  This was finished and mounted
in November, 1873.  Another instrument of similar size and power was manufactured by Mr. Clark
for the University of Virginia. But these instruments did not long maintain their supremacy.
In 1881, Mr. Howard Grubb, of Dublin, manufactured a still larger instrument for the Austrian
Government--the object-glass being of twenty-seven inches aperture.  But Mr. Alvan Clark was
not to be beaten.  In 1882, he supplied the Russian Government with the largest refracting
telescope in existence the object-glass being of thirty inches diameter.  Even this, however,
is to be surpassed by the lens which Mr. Clark has in hand for the Lick Observatory (California),
which is to have a clear aperture of three feet in diameter.

[11] Since the above passage was written and in type, I have seen (in September 1884) the reflecting
telescope referred to at pp. 357-8.  It was mounted on its cast-iron equatorial stand, and
at work in the field adjoining the village green at Bainbridge, Yorkshire.  The mirror of the
telescope is 8 inches in diameter; its focal length, 5 feet; and the tube in which it is mounted,
about 6 feet long.  The instrument seemed to me to have an excellent defining power.

But Mr. Lancaster, like every eager astronomer, is anxious for further improvements.  He considers
the achromatic telescope the king of instruments, and is now engaged in testing convex optical
surfaces, with a view to achieving a telescope of that description.  The chief difficulty is
the heavy charge for the circular blocks of flint glass requisite for the work which he meditates.
"That," he says, "is the great difficulty with amateurs of my class."  He has, however, already
contrived and constructed a machine for grinding and polishing the lenses in an accurate convex
form, and it works quite satisfactorily. Mr. Lancaster makes his own tools.  From the raw material,
whether of glass or steel, he produces the work required.  As to tools, all that he requires
is a bar of steel and fire; his fertile brain and busy hands do the rest.  I looked into the
little workshop behind his sitting-room, and found it full of ingenious adaptations.  The turning
lathe occupies a considerable part of it; but when he requires more space, the village smith
with his stithy, and the miller with his water-power, are always ready to help him.  His tools,
though not showy, are effective.  His best lenses are made by himself:  those which he buys
are not to be depended upon.  The best flint glass is obtained from Paris in blocks, which
he divides, grinds, and polishes to perfect form.

I was attracted by a newly made machine, placed on a table in the sitting-room; and on inquiry
found that its object was to grind and polish lenses.  Mr. Lancaster explained that the difficulty
to be overcome in a good machine, is to make the emery cut the surface equally from centre
to edge of the lens, so that the lens will neither lengthen nor shorten the curve during its
production.  To quote his words:  "This  really involves the problem of the 'three bodies,'
or disturbing forces so celebrated in dynamical mathematics, and it is further complicated
by another quantity, the 'coefficient of attrition,' or work done by the grinding material,
as well as the mischief done by capillary attraction and nodal points of superimposed curves
in the path of the tool.  These complications tend to cause rings or waves of unequal wear
in the surface of the glass, and ruin the defining power of the lens, which depends upon the
uniformity of its curve.  As the outcome of much practical experiment, combined with mathematical
research, I settled upon the ratio of speed between the sheave of the lens-tool guide and the
turn-table; between whose limits the practical equalization of wear (or cut of the emery) might
with the greater facility be adjusted, by means of varying the stroke and eccentricity of the
tool.  As the result of these considerations in the construction of the machine, the surface
of the glass 'comes up' regularly all over the lens; and the polishing only takes a few minutes'
work--thus keeping the truth of surface gained by using a rigid tool."

The machine in question consists of a revolving sheave or ring, with a sliding strip across
its diameter; the said strip having a slot and clamping screw at one end, and a hole towards
the other, through which passes the axis of the tool used in forming the lens,--the slot in
the strip allowing the tool to give any stroke from 0 to 1.25 inch.  The lens is carried on
a revolving turn-table, with an arrangement to allow the axis of the lens to coincide with
the axis of the table.  The ratio of speed between the sheave and turn-table is arranged by
belt and properly sized pulleys, and the whole can be driven either by hand or by power. The
sheave merely serves as a guide to the tool in its path, and the lens may either be worked
on the turn-table or upon a chuck attached to the tool rod.  The work upon the lens is thus
to a great extent independent of the error of the machine through shaking, or bad fitting,
or wear; and the only part of the machine which requires really first-class work is the axis
of the turn-table, which (in this machine) is a conical bearing at top, with steel centre below,--the
bearing turned, hardened, and then ground up true, and run in anti-friction metal.  Other details
might be given, but these are probably enough for present purposes.  We hope, at some future
time, for a special detail of Mr. Lancaster's interesting investigations, from his own mind
and pen.

[12] The translations are made by W. Cadwalladr Davies, Esq.

[13] This evidence was given by Mr. W. Cadwalladr Davies on the 28th October, 1880.