How they were allowed to remain so is still, after all the explanations that have been given,
incomprehensible. Two officers with sixty hussars, all well disposed and loyal, were in a side
street of the town waiting for their arrival, of which they were not aware. Six of the troopers
actually passed the travelers in the street as they were proceeding to the mayor's house, but
no one, not even the queen, appealed to them for succor; or they could have released them without
an effort, for Drouet's whole party consisted of no more than eight unarmed men. And when,
an hour afterward, the officers in command learned that the king was in the town in the hands
of his enemies, instead of at once delivering him, they were seized with a panic: they would
not take on themselves the responsibility of acting without express orders, but galloped back
to De Bouillé to report the state of affairs. In less than an hour three more detachments,
amounting in all to above one hundred men, also reached the town; and their commanders did
make their way to the king, and asked his orders. He could only reply that he was a prisoner,
and had no orders to give; and not one of the officers had the sense to perceive that the fact
of his announcing himself a prisoner was in itself an order to deliver him. 

Protected in a legitimate enterprise by the government, he has set himself up as a manufacturer
of shoes. Since he is in control of the enterprise, it is he who pays the land-owner, the
capitalist, and the laborers, for their respective contributions
toward the finished shoes.

The amounts received by the individuals coöperating with the entrepreneur are not, however,
arbitrarily determined. The entrepreneur must bow to economic law, and give these individuals
what free competition in industry sets as a proper reward for their respective services. Let us examine
into this conformity to economic law.

86. THE LAND-OWNER RECEIVES RENT.-- The land-owner is rewarded because he extends the use of
land to the entrepreneur. A land-owner could not be expected to, and will not, allow the entrepreneur
free use of this land. The land-owner must therefore be paid for the use of the land. The entrepreneur,
on the other hand, is able and willing to pay for the use of the land because upon it he expects
to build a factory in which to manufacture shoes. He therefore pays the land-owner an amount
of money called rent. The amount of rent paid for a piece of land depends partly upon how much
the entrepreneur wants the land, and partly upon the available supply of land of the type wanted.
This is equivalent to saying that rent is determined by the interaction of the two forces of supply
and demand.

87.

THE CAPITALIST RECEIVES INTEREST.-- Besides land, the entrepreneur needs machinery, office
equipment, raw materials, the services of laborers, and numerous other aids in production. Let
us assume that the entrepreneur borrows of a capitalist the money required to procure these necessities.
The entrepreneur can afford to pay interest for the use of this money, since with the aid of the
goods and services which it will buy, he can produce more shoes than would otherwise be possible.
Not only can he afford to pay interest, but he is obliged to pay it, since otherwise he could
not secure the required loan. Though some people tend carelessly to overlook this fact, saving
and abstinence are necessary to the accumulation of money. The individual who has money, therefore,
cannot be expected to allow the entrepreneur to use it without payment, especially not when, as
we have just seen, the entrepreneur can acquire wealth by the use of the goods and services which
that money will buy.

The amount of interest which the capitalist receives for the use of his money will depend, as
will rent, upon the law of supply and demand. If there is a large amount of funds available for
investment, and at the same time few borrowers, then a given capitalist must be content to accept
a relatively low rate of interest, lest his refusal cause the entrepreneur to close a bargain
with a competing capitalist. If, on the other hand, available funds are scarce and entrepreneurs
are greatly in need of money, then capitalists are at an advantage and entrepreneurs must
offer relatively high rates of interest.

88. THE LABORERS RECEIVE WAGES.-- The payment which the laborers receive for their part in the
production of the shoes is called wages. Since the laborers help in shoe manufacture, the
employer can afford to pay them. Not only can he afford to pay them, but he must pay them. Otherwise
the laborers would not work for this particular entrepreneur, but, in a freely competitive market,
would offer their services to a competing employer.

Wages, like rent and interest, depend upon the conditions of supply and demand. If, in comparison
with other aids in production, the services of laborers are wanted badly, and if, at the same time,
there is a scarcity of the desired type of labor, then wages will be high. If, on the other
hand, there is an over supply of laborers, and also a small demand for that type of labor, then
wages will tend to be low.

89. THE GOVERNMENT RECEIVES TAXES.-- In addition to paying the land-owner, the capitalist, and
the laborers for their share in producing the shoes, the entrepreneur must pay taxes to the
government. These taxes may be considered as payment for that maintenance of law and order without
which the economical manufacture of shoes would be impossible.

The share which goes to the government is determined by a unique method: the government does not
try to secure as large a share of the product as possible, but strives, on the contrary, to
exact as little as possible, and still meet its expenses. The subject of taxation requires special
treatment [Footnote: See Chapter XXXII.] and does not, therefore, call for further mention in this
chapter.

90. THE ENTREPRENEUR RECEIVES PROFITS.-- That share of the income derived from the sale of the shoes
which goes to the entrepreneur is called profits. It is only fair that the entrepreneur receive some
reward, for it is he who conceived the idea of shoe manufacture and then carried out the project.
Without his efforts the land-owner, the capitalist, and the laborers would not have combined
in this enterprise, with the result that there would have been fewer shoes in the community.
Fewer shoes would probably mean more expensive shoes.

And not only does the entrepreneur deserve some reward for thus adding to the well-being of
the community, but if he did not receive that reward, he would not go to the trouble of initiating
and maintaining a shoe manufacturing establishment.

The share going to the entrepreneur is determined less exactly than is the share of the land-owner,
the capitalist, and the laborers. In dividing up the income of the business, the shoe manufacturer
must, in an important sense, put himself last. Before there are finished shoes to sell, he
must pay the land-owner rent, the capitalist interest, and the laborers wages. Before he is
allowed to count out his own share he must also pay taxes to the government, pay insurance
on his plant, and set aside an amount sufficient to keep his buildings and machinery in repair.
He cannot evade the payment of rent, interest, or wages on the plea that these payments will
diminish his profits. He has contracted to pay the landlord, the capitalist, and the laborers,
and he must fulfill that contract. If, after paying all of his expenses, there is anything left,
the entrepreneur retains it as profits. Sometimes this share is very large, sometimes it is
so small as to force the entrepreneur out of business. In any case, the chief risks and responsibilities
of the whole enterprise are concentrated upon the entrepreneur, rather than upon the land-owner,
the capitalist, or the laborers.

91. THE DETERMINANTS OF EACH SHARE.-- To sum up, the share of the joint industrial income going
respectively to the land-owner, the capitalist, and the laborers is determined by the interaction
of the forces of supply and demand, operating under conditions of free competition. The entrepreneur's
demand for land, labor, or capital will depend upon whether or not he sees an opportunity,
under a particular set of circumstances, to add to his product by
the employment of each or all of these factors.

Where the supply of laborers is large, relatively to demand, the promised product of any one laborer
is likely to be relatively small, and in this case the entrepreneur or employer will be unwilling
or even unable to offer a particular laborer high wages. Under these circumstances the competition
of the many laborers for the few jobs will accordingly bring about lower wages. Where, on the
other hand, the supply of laborers is small, relatively to demand, the chances that a particular
laborer will be able to add to the product are relatively great, and the competition of employers
for laborers will result in higher wages. The same reasoning is applicable to rent and interest.
The automatic operation of the law of supply and demand, functioning in a freely competitive
market, determines the shares which go to land, labor, and capital. The share going to the
individual entrepreneur is, as has already been pointed out, a residual
share, i. e. what is left over.

QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT 1.

What is meant by the distribution of industrial income? 2.

Why was this distribution of relatively small importance prior to
the Industrial Revolution? 3.

In
what way did the Industrial Revolution accentuate the importance
of the problem of distribution? 4.

What
are the chief difficulties which confront the student of this problem?
5.

What belief has given rise to the charge of injustice in the distribution
of wealth? 6.

Explain the significance of the entrepreneur in distribution. 7.

What is the nature of rent? 8.

Why does the capitalist receive interest? 9.

Why does the laborer receive wages? 10.

What is the government's share in distribution? 11.

Or all of the following: 2.

Carver, Elementary Economics, chapters xxx and xxxi.

3.

King, Wealth and Income of the People of the United States, chapter
vii.

4. Thompson, Elementary Economics, chapters xx to xxiv inclusive.

QUESTIONS ON THE REQUIRED READINGS 1. What is meant by non-competing
groups?

(Thompson, page 296.) 2.

What are the chief causes of the difference in wages in different
occupations?

(Carver, page 268.) 3. Upon what factors does the efficiency of the laborer depend? (Thompson,
page 303.) 4.

What is the functional theory of wages? (Carver, pages 261-- 262.) 5.

Have wages increased or decreased since 1850? (King, page 173.) 6.

What is the relation of risk to interest? (Thompson, pages 351--
353.) 7.

What is meant by the term "unearned increment"? (Thompson, pages
335-- 337.) 8.

Define profits. (King, pages 155-- 156.) 9. Have profits increased
since 1880?

(King, page 177.) 10.

Name some of the characteristics of the business man.

(Thompson, pages 357-- 358.) TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT I 1.

Select for study some common commodity which passes through all or
most of the stages of manufacture in your community, as, for example,
a hammer, a shoe, flour or canned goods.

Make a list of the various individuals who are connected with the
production of this commodity.

By whom are these various individuals paid? Does it appear to you that their services bear
a close relation to the sums which they receive? Explain fully. 2. Select for study a plot of
land which the owner has leased to a tenant in your community. Why is the tenant willing to pay
rent for this plot? Why is he able to pay rent? Do you believe that under the existing circumstances
he would be able to pay an increase of 10% in the rent?

An increase of 50%? Explain. 3. Select for study an enterprise in your community in which the
employer utilizes various groups of workmen. Classify the workmen on the basis of the amount of
wages received. Why does the employer pay some high wages and others low wages? 4. Select for study
a successful entrepreneur in your community.

Outline, either as the result of hearsay, or personal interviews with him, the qualities to which
he apparently owes his success. 5. Make a study of an enterprise in your community which has either
recently failed, or which is not now in a thriving condition.

Attempt to discover the reasons for the failure to progress. II 6. The law of variable proportions.
(Carver, Elementary Economics, chapter xxix.) 7. The nature of income.

(King,
Wealth and Income of the People of the United States, chapter v.)
8. Relation of public education to income.

(Thompson, Elementary Economics, pages 299-303.) 9.

Reasons for the scarcity of capital.

(Carver, Elementary Economics, chapter xxxvi.) 10. The productivity
of capital.

(Taussig, Principles of Economics, vol. ii, chapter xxxviii.) 11.
Historical changes in the rate of interest.

(Bullock, Selected Readings in Economics, pages 563-568.) 12. The
rent of land.

(Carver, Elementary Economics, chapter xxxiii.) 13. Causes of the
scarcity of labor.

(Carver, Elementary Economics, pages 270-271.) 14. Historical changes
in the rate of wages.

(Bullock,
Selected Readings in Economics, pages 533-543.) 15. The nature of profits. (Carver, Elementary
Economics, chapter xxxvi.) 16.

Relation of profits to risk. (Taussig, Principles of Economics, vol.
ii, chapter xlix, section 1.) 17.

Qualities of a successful entrepreneur. (Taussig, Principles of Economics,
vol. ii, chapter xlix, sections 3 and 4.) 18.

Motives of business activity. The government's share in distribution.

(Carver,
Elementary Economics, chapter xxxvii.) CHAPTER X BASES OF THE CAPITALISTIC
SYSTEM 92.

THE "CAPITALISTIC SYSTEM."-- Modern industry is sometimes said to be headless, because the numerous
individuals engaged in it are not systematically controlled or directed
by a single agency.

It is often said to be planless, since laborers, employers, and other industrial agents concentrate
upon their individual desires and needs, rather than upon the needs
of the community or nation as a whole.

And yet there is in modern industry a certain regularity of outline, and a general tendency to
follow the economic laws discussed in the preceding three chapters.

This circumstance prevents us from concluding that our industrial
life is entirely a haphazard affair.

It may, indeed, be said that we have an industrial system.

Because of the great importance in it of capital, this system is commonly known as the "capitalistic
system." The underlying principles of this system have already been mentioned or implied; nevertheless
it will be to our interest in this chapter to develop and organize these
principles so as to indicate just how they constitute the bases of capitalism.
93.

ATTITUDE OF GOVERNMENT TOWARD INDUSTRY.-- "It is the duty of the government," Gladstone once said,
"to make it easy for the people to do right, and difficult for them to do wrong." According to
the theory of the capitalistic system, that is "right" which renders the individual and the community
stronger, happier, and more prosperous in useful pursuits, while that is "wrong" which weakens
or demoralizes the citizen and the community. The chief economic function of government is thus
to discourage men from harmful and destructive acts, and to encourage
them in activities which are helpful and productive. Professor Carver
points out that the method by which animals get their living is either
destructive, deceptive, persuasive, or productive.

Any
one of these four methods may at least temporarily increase the well-being of
the individual, but only the productive method is certain to benefit
the community as well. A good government will therefore seek to prevent
people from advancing their individual interests by killing, robbing,
or deceiving their fellows. This suppression of violence and fraud
leaves open to individuals only the productive method of getting a living,
so that they cannot benefit themselves without at the same time adding
to the prosperity of the community. From the standpoint of capitalism,
thus, a good government maintains an attitude toward industry which
is primarily negative: such a government hampers the economic activities
of individuals very little or not at all, so long as they do not practice
harmful methods of getting a living.

94. PRIVATE PROPERTY.--
Most men are self-centered. In even a highly developed society, men ordinarily
will not work consistently except in their own behalf, or in the behalf
of a very few people for whom they care intensely. This instinct of
self-interest is the kernel of industrial progress, but it can result
in material prosperity only when government suppresses violence and
fraud. The lowest savages are undoubtedly self-centered, but so long
as they must rely upon brute force to retain their possessions, there
is little inducement to acquire wealth. It is only when law suppresses
robbery and fraud, and otherwise protects the individual in his property
rights, that the acquisitive instinct will cause him to exert himself
in productive ways. Because it satisfies the individual's desire to
secure the good things of life, the institution of private property
is the greatest known spur to economic activity, It is only in those
countries where individuals are protected in their property rights
that we find an active, progressive, and prosperous people.

95.
ENFORCEMENT OF CONTRACTS.-- We have already seen that among the members of
a modern industrial society there is a high degree of interdependence,
corresponding, in an important sense, to the interdependence between
the parts of a machine. As we have seen, the typical individual in industry
is a specialist, concentrating upon one particular kind of work, and depending
upon his fellows to supply him with goods and services which he cannot
supply for himself. Now, such a condition of interdependence could never
have arisen were it not for the fact that government fosters the spirit
of confidence among individuals. Many persons can be trusted to fulfill
the agreements or contracts which they make with their fellows, but
many cannot. A prime function of government, therefore, is to enforce contracts
entered into voluntarily and in legal form. This is clearly essential to our
material prosperity, for if men are to rely upon the word of those who
sell them goods or services, or to whom they sell goods or services, all
of the individuals concerned must be dependable. 96. COMPETITION.--
A good government will shunt men into productive activities, and
it will insist upon the fulfilment of lawful contracts.

Subject to these two limitations, individuals are relatively
free to seek their own well-being. But an earmark of economic goods is
scarcity, that is, there are at a given time and place fewer of them than are desired.
Men must therefore compete with one another for goods and services. The
lower animals compete for food with tooth and claw; among civilized
men government tries to raise competition to an ethical plane by tending
to suppress all but the productive methods of competition. Where competition
is so restricted and safeguarded, advocates of capitalism assert that
the results are overwhelmingly good. Where there is free competition,
i. e. free competition in productive enterprise, employers commonly
pay their laborers as high a wage as they feel is justified under the
particular circumstances, lest their workmen abandon them for rival employers.
Under similar conditions, laborers will generally endeavor to render the
best possible service, so that the employer will prefer them to other
laborers. This assumes, of course, that competition is effective, i. e., that
there is neither an oversupply or an undersupply of either employers
or employees.

Where, again, there is free competition
in productive enterprise, the price of commodities produced by a given
concern cannot rise too far, for consumers will either buy those commodities
of rival producers, or will use substitutes. If, on the other hand,
prices drop so low that producers make little or no profits, they
will withdraw from business. Free and effective competition thus means
rivalry in satisfying wants, that rivalry being engaged in for the
sake of private gain. Competition tends to harmonize the interests of
the individual with the interests of the community, by making the success
of the individual depend primarily upon what he accomplishes for
his fellows.

97. VALUE UNDER CONDITIONS
OF FREE COMPETITION.-- In a competitive market, as we have seen, value
depends upon scarcity and utility. No one will ordinarily pay for a commodity
unless it will satisfy his wants, i. e. unless it has utility. But
even though a commodity has utility, no one will ordinarily pay for
it unless it is so scarce that he cannot get as much of it as he
wishes without paying for it. Air, for example, has great utility,
but it is so abundant that it can ordinarily be secured without payment.
Hence it has no value. Price, the measure of value in terms of money,
will be determined, under conditions of free competition, by the interaction
of utility and scarcity.

Diamonds are
high in price because they satisfy intense desires and are scarce; bread is
cheap because while possessing great utility, it is relatively abundant.
Skilled labor receives high wages because in addition to its utility it is
relatively scarce; unskilled labor often receives low wages because
while possessing utility it is relatively abundant.

This principle is
of the very greatest consequence, and in considering the programs of industrial
reform we shall come back to it again. 98. It was in reality
a resolution to exclude from the new Assembly not only every one who had any parliamentary
or legislative experience, but also all the adherents or friends of the throne, and to place
the coming elections wholly in the power of the Jacobins. Robespierre was willing to be excluded
himself from a conviction, that, with such an Assembly as would surely be returned, the Jacobin
Club would practically exercise all the power of the State. But the Constitutional party, who
saw that it was aimed at them, opposed it with great vigor; and would probably have been able
to defeat it if the Royalist members who still retained their seats would have consented to
join them. Unhappily the queen took the opposite view. With far more acuteness, penetration,
and fertility of imagination than are usually given to women, or to men either, she had still
in some degree the defect common to her sex, of being prone to confine her views to one side
of a question; and to overrule her reason by her feelings and prejudices. Though she acknowledged
the service which Barnave had rendered by defeating those who had wished to bring the king
and herself to trial, she, nevertheless, still regarded the Constitutionalists in general with
deep distrust as the party which desired to lower, and had lowered, the authority and dignity
of the throne; and, viewing the whole Assembly with not unnatural antipathy, she fancied that
one composed wholly of new members could not possibly be, more unfriendly to the king's person
and government, and might probably be far better disposed toward them. She easily brought the
king to adopt her views, and exerted the whole of her influence to secure the passing of the
decree, sending agents to canvass those deputies who were opposed to it. With the Royalist
members, the Extreme Right, her voice was law, and, by the unnatural union of them and the
Jacobins, the resolution was carried.

It is the more singular that she should have been willing thus, as it were, to proscribe the
members of the present Assembly, because, in a very remarkable letter which she wrote to her
brother the emperor at the end of July, she founds the hopes for the future, which she expresses
with a degree of sanguineness which can hardly fail to be thought strange when the events of
June are remembered, on the conduct of the Assembly itself. The letter is too long to quote
at full length, but a few extracts from it will help us in our task of forming a proper estimate
of her character, from the unreserved exposition which it contains of her feelings, both past
and present, with her views and hopes for the future, even while she keenly appreciates the
difficulties of the king's position; and from the unabated eagerness for the welfare of France
which it displays in every reflection and suggestion. That she still considers the imperial
alliance of great importance to the welfare of both nations will surprise no one. The suspension
of the royal authority which the Assembly had decreed on the 26th of June had been removed
on the decision that the king was not to be proceeded against. Yet her first sentence shows
that she was still subjected to cruel and lawless tyranny, which even hindered her correspondence
with her own relations. A queen might have expected to be able to write in security to another
sovereign; a sister to a brother; but La Fayette and those in authority regarded the rights
of neither royalty nor kindred.

"A friend, my dear brother, has undertaken to convey this letter to you, for I myself have
no means of giving you news of my health. I will not enter into details of what preceded our
departure. You have already known all the reasons for it. During the events which befell us
on our journey, and in the situation in which we were immediately after our return to Paris,
I was profoundly distressed. After I recovered from the first shock of the agitation which
they produced, I set myself to work to reflect on what I had seen; and I have endeavored to
form a clear idea of what, in the actual state of affairs, the king's interests are, and what
the conduct is which they prescribe to me. My ideas have been formed by a combination of motives
which I will proceed to explain to you.

"...The situation of affairs here has greatly changed since our journey. The National Assembly
was divided into a multitude of parties. Far from order being re-established, every day seemed
to diminish the power of the law. The king, deprived of all authority, did not even see any
possibility of recovering it on the completion of the Constitution through the influence of
the Assembly, since that body itself was every day losing more the respect of the people. In
short, it was impossible to see any end to disorder.

"To-day, circumstances present much more hope. The men who have the greatest influence in affairs
are united together, and have openly declared for the preservation of the monarchy and the
king, and for the re-establishment of order. Since their union, the efforts of the seditious
have been defeated by a great superiority of strength. The Assembly has acquired a consistency
and an authority in every part of the kingdom, which it seems disposed to use to establish
the observance of the laws and to put an end to the Revolution. At this moment the most moderate
men, who have never ceased to be opposed to revolutionary acts, are uniting, because they see
in union the only prospect of enjoying in safety what the Revolution has left them, and of
putting an end to the troubles of which they dread the continuance. In short, every thing seems
at this moment to contribute to put an end to the agitations and commotions to which France
has been given over for the last two years. This termination of them, however, natural and
possible as it is, will not give the Government the degree of force and authority which I regard
as necessary; but it will preserve us from greater misfortunes; it will place us in a situation
of greater tranquillity, and, when men's minds have recovered from their present intoxication,
perhaps they will see the usefulness of giving the royal authority a greater range.

"This, in the course which matters are now taking, is what one can foresee for the future,
and I compare this result with what we could promise ourselves from a line of conduct opposed
to the wishes which the nation displays. In that ease I see an absolute impossibility of obtaining
any thing except by the employment of a superior force; and on this last supposition I will
say nothing of the personal dangers which the king, my son, and I myself may have to encounter.
But what could be the consequences but some enterprise, the issue of which is uncertain, and
the ultimate result of which, whatever it might be, presents disasters such as one can not
endure to contemplate? The army is in a bad state from want of leaders and of subordination;
but the kingdom is full of armed men, and their imagination is so inflamed that it is impossible
to foresee what they might do, and the number of victims who might be sacrificed.... It is
impossible, when one sees what is going on here, to calculate what might be the effects of
their despair. I only see, in the events which might arise out of such an attempt, but very
doubtful prospects of success, and the certainty of great miseries for every one....

"If the Revolution should be terminated in the manner of which I have spoken, then it will
be important that the king shall acquire, in a solid manner, the confidence and consideration
which alone can give a real strength to the royal authority. No means are so well calculated
to procure them for him as the influence which we might have over one of your resolutions[6]
which would contribute to insure peace to France, and to dispel disquietude, which are so much
the more grievous for the whole world, that they are among the principal obstacles to the re-establishment
of public tranquillity. The share which in that way we should have in the termination of these
troubles would win over to us all men of moderate temper, while the others, especially the
chiefs of the Revolution, would attach themselves to us because of the sincere and efficacious
inclination which we should have shown to conduct matters to the end, which they all wish for.
Your own interests seem to me also to have a place in this system of conduct. The National
Assembly, before separating, will desire, in concert with the king, to determine the alliances
to which France is to continue attached; and the power of Europe which shall be the first to
recognize the Constitution, after it has been accepted by the king, will undoubtedly be the
one with which the Assembly will be inclined to form the closest alliance; and to these general
views I might add the means which I myself have to dispose men's minds to maintain this alliance--
means which will be extremely strengthened, if you share my view of the present circumstances.

"I can not doubt that the chiefs of the Revolution, who have supported the king in the last
crisis, will be desirous to assure to him the consideration and respect necessary to the exercise
of his authority, and that they will see in a close alliance of France with that power with
which he is connected by ties of blood, a means of combining his dignity with the interests
of the nation, and in that way of consolidating and strengthening a Constitution of which they
all agree that the majesty of the king is one essential foundation.

"I do not know if, independently of all other reasons, the king will not find in that feeling
and in the inclinations of the nation, when it has recovered its calmness, more deference,
and a temper more favorable to him, than he could expect from the majority of those Frenchmen
who are at present out of the kingdom.[7]"

And a letter which she wrote to Mercy a fortnight later is perhaps even more worthy of attention,
as supplying abundant proof, if proof were needed, of the good-will and good faith which were
the leading principles of herself and the king in all their dealings with the Assembly. Since
her letter to her brother, matters had been proceeding rapidly. She had found some means of
treating more directly than on any previous occasion, not only with Barnave, but with the far
more unscrupulous A. Lameth; and the Assembly had made such progress in completing the Constitution
that it was on the point of submitting it to the king for his acceptance. We have seen in Marie
Antoinette's letter to the emperor that she was convinced of the necessity of Louis signifying
that acceptance, and she adhered to that view of the policy to be pursued, though the last
touches given to the Constitution had rendered many of its articles far more unreasonable than
she had anticipated, and though the great English statesman, Burke, whose "Reflections" of
the preceding year had naturally caused him to be regarded as one of the ablest advisers on
whom she could rely, forwarded to her an earnest exhortation to induce her husband to reject
it. He implored her "to have nothing to do with traitors." Using the argument which, to one
so sensitive for her honor as Marie Antoinette, was well calculated to exert an almost irresistible
influence over her mind, he declared that "her resolution at this most critical moment was
to decide whether her glory was to be maintained, and her distresses to cease, or whether" "I
feel the same way," said Mr. O'Meagher, "exactly the same way. I'm just boiling over with enthusiasm
for reform."

"Then our sympathies and desires are common. Now, if I could feel sure that I ought to run
again in the interest of reform--"

"You've done so much already," Mr. O'Meagher hastily put in, "you've sacrificed so heavily that
I don't think it would be fair to ask it of you."

"N-no," said the Mayor, dubiously, "I suppose it wouldn't, now, would
it?"

"Of course not."

"And yet I don't like to run away from the call, so to speak, of
duty."

"Don't be worried about that."

"But I am worried, O'Meagher.

I can't help it. By every mail I am receiving hundreds of letters from the best citizens of New-York,
urging me to let my name be used. Deputations wait on me constantly with the same request, and, as you
know, they are going to hold a mass-meeting to-morrow night, and they threaten to nominate me,
whether or no. What can I do? I tell them I don't want to run, that my private business has
already suffered by neglect, but they answer imploring me not to desert the cause of reform just
when it needs me most. It is very embarrassing." "Very," said Mr.
O'Meagher.

"It's astonishing how thoughtless people are. But they wouldn't be so hard on you if they knew how you
were fixed." "That's just it.

They don't know, and I don't want to appear selfish."

Mr. O'Meagher coughed, not because he needed to cough, but for want
of something better to do.

"The
Tammany ticket," Mr. Ruse continued, "will be hotly opposed this year, and I'm bound to say
that I don't think it is sufficiently identified with reform. They tell me you are going to
nominate Wimples for the Supreme Court. Wimples is a good lawyer, but he has no reform record. Neither
has Colonel Bellows, whom you talk of for District-Attorney. McBoodle for Sheriff does not
appeal to reformers. Bierbocker for Register might get the German vote, but how could reformers
support a common butcher?

I don't know whom you think of for my place, but it seems to me that there's only one way to
save your ticket from defeat and that is to indorse the candidate for Mayor presented by the
citizens'mass-meeting to-morrow night. That would make success certain. The public would
praise your noble fidelity to reform, and you'd sweep the city! Think of it, Mr. O'Meagher!
What a glorious, what a golden opportunity!"

"My eyes are as wide open as the next man's for golden opportunities, Mr. Ruse," replied Mr.
O'Meagher. "But the question is, who will be nominated."

"Well,'hem! of course I can't definitely say. I'm trying to get them to take some new man. But
if they should insist on nominating me, I'm afraid I'd have to-- h'm, what-- what do you think
I'd have to do?"

"Well, being a pious man and a reformer, I should think you'd at
least have to pray over it."

The Hon. Perfidius Ruse gave a keen, quick glance at the Hon. Doyle O'Meagher, and slightly
frowned.

"I should certainly consider it with care," he said stiffly.

"So should I."

"Is that all you will say?"

"No, I'll say more," and he picked up the sheet of paper on which he had written the names of the
Tammany candidates. "Look here," he continued. "This is my list of nominees. The space for
the head of the ticket is still blank. I have not told any one whom I mean to present for the
Mayoralty, but I will promise you now to insert there the name of the man nominated by your
Citizens'meeting to-morrow night."

"Whoever he may be?"

"Whoever he may be."

"And I may rely on that?"

"Did I ever tell you anything you couldn't rely on?"

"No."

"All right. Good-by."

They shook hands, and Mr. Ruse departed wearing an expansive smile. As he left the room, Mr. O'Meagher
smiled also and picked up his pen. "I may as well fill in the name now," he said softly, "and
save time," and with great precision he proceeded to write: "For Mayor, the Hon. Doyle O'Meagher.
Assessed in the sum of--" but there he stopped. "We'll consider that
later," he said.

The personal history of the Hon. Doyle O'Meagher strikingly proves how slight an influence is
exerted in this young republic by social prestige and vulgar wealth, and how inevitably certain
are the rewards of virtue, industry, and ability. I am credibly told that Mr. O'Meagher first
opened his eyes in a little ten by twelve earth cabin in the County Kerry, Ireland, though I can
not profess to have seen the cabin.

Being from his earliest youth of a reflective disposition, he became impressed, when but a small
lad, with the conviction that thirteen people, three pigs, seven chickens, and five ducks formed
too numerous a population for a cabin of those dimensions. In the silent watches of the night,
with his head on a duck and a pig on his stomach, he had frequently revolved this idea in his
young but apt mind, and at last, though not in any spirit of petulance, he formed the resolution
which gave shape and purpose to his later career.

He had communicated to his father his peculiar views about the crowded
condition of the cabin.

"Begob, Doyley, me bye," the old man had replied, "Oi've bin thinkin'o'that. Whin the ould sow
litters, Doyley, it's sore perplexhed we'll be fer shlapin'room. Divil a wan o'me knows how fer
to sarcumvint the throuble widout we takes you, Doyley, an'the young pigs, an'shtrings ye all up
o'nights ferninst the wall."

Doyle waited developments with a heavy heart, and when they came and he found that it required all
the fingers on both his hands wherewith to calculate their number, he took down his hat, dashed
the unbidden tear from his eyes, and made the best of his way to
Queenstown.

The opportunity is not here afforded for an extended review of the
stages of progress by which Mr. O'Meagher, having landed in New York,
finally secured almost a sovereign influence in its municipal affairs,
and yet they are too interesting to justify their entire omission.

He first won a place in the hearts of the American people by discovering to them his wonderful fistic
attainments. From small and unnoted rings, he steadily and grandly rose until the newspapers overflowed
with the details of his battles with the eminent Mr. Muldoon, with Four-Fingered Jake, with the
Canarsie Bantam, with Billy the Beat, and with other equally distinguished gentlemen of equally
portentous titles, and at last none was to be found capable of withstanding the onslaught of
the aroused Mr. O'Meagher. When he went forth in dress-array, belts and buckles and chains and
plates of gold armored him from head to heel, and diamonds as large as pigeons'eggs blazed
resplendently from every available nook and corner all over his muscular
expanse.

Mr. O'Meagher's retirement from the ring was rendered inevitable by the fact that no one would enter
it with him, and he found himself compelled to employ his talents in other fields of labor.
Reduced to this extremity, he resolved to go into politics, and as an earnest of this intention
he fitted up a new and gorgeous saloon. It was a novelty in its way, with its tiled floors,
its decorated walls, its costly and beautiful paintings, its rare tapestries, its statues in
bronze and marble, its heavy, oaken bar, and its pyramid of the finest cut glass-- and when he
threw it open to the public he celebrated the occasion by formally accepting a Tammany nomination
for Congress.

In the halls of the National Legislature, Mr. O'Meagher soon let it be known that he cared
not who made the country's laws, so long as a fair proportion of his constituents were supplied
with places and pensions, and his aggressive and successful championship of this principle soon
won for him a proud position in the councils of his party. He was a friend of the common people,
and the commoner the people the friendlier he was, until, having clearly established his claims
to leadership, in obedience to the summons of his organization, he gave himself up to the management
of its destinies.

It was as the Boss of Tammany Hall that Mr. Doyle O'Meagher's genius attained its largest and
highest development. Notwithstanding the opposition of rival factions engaged in bitter competition
with Tammany, Mr. O'Meagher contrived to let out the offices at larger commission rates than Tammany
had ever received before. Under no previous Boss had Tammany's heelers enjoyed such vast opportunities
for "business." It was all in vain that envious and less-gifted bosses sought to undermine and
depose him. Steadily and courageously he pursued his policy of reducing the labor of self-government
to individual citizens until he had placed their taxes at a maximum and their trouble at a minimum.
They had but to pay, Mr. O'Meagher did all the piping and all the
dancing too.

He was in capital humor now as he dropped the pen with which he had written his own name as that
of the Mayoralty candidate for whom he had finally decided to throw his important influence,
and when a boy entered with the information that Major Tuff was below, the Hon. Doyle O'Meagher
was actually whistling.

"Tuff," he said. "Good, I'm wanting Tuff. Send Tuff up."

Tuff entered. Tuff's hat was new and high and shiny. Tuff's hair was all aglow with bear's grease.
Tuff's eyes were small and snappy. Tuff's nose was flat and wide and snubby. Tuff's cheeks
were big and bony. Tuff's cigar was long and black. Tuff's lips were thick and extensive.
Tuff's neck was huge and short. Tuff's coat was a heavy blue one that did for an overcoat,
too. Tuff wore diamonds as big as his knuckles. Tuff's scarf was red. Tuff's waistcoat was
yellow, and every color known to the spectroscope was employed to
make up Tuff's copious trousers.

"Well,"
said Tuff, "I'm on deck."

"Thank you, Major. How are things looking?"

"Dey couldn't be better. I got t'irty-six tenement houses wid at leas'two hundered woters to
de house. Dey's two t'ousan'Eyetalians, five hunered niggers, more'n a t'ousan'Poles, and de res'is
all kinds. An'every dern one of em's eddicated!" "Educated!

Really, you don't mean it?" "Eddicated!

You kin betcher boots. De performin'dogs in the circus aint a patch to dem free and intelligent Amerikin citerzens.
I got'em trained so dat at de menshun of de word'reform'dey all busts out in one gran'roar er
ent'oosiasm. I had eight hunered of'em a-practisin'in de assembly rooms over Paddy Coogan's saloon
las'night. I tole'em de louder dey yelled when I said de word'reform'de more beer dey'd get w'en de
lectur was done. Some of'em was disposed ter stick out for de beer fust, an'said dey could
do deir bes'shoutin'w'en dey was loaded. But my princerple is work fust, den go ter de cashier.
So I made'em a speech."

I sez:'Feller-citerzens: Dis is de lan'er de free an'de home er de brav,'an'den I give a motion
wot means'stamp de feet.'Dey all stamped like dey was clog-dancers. Den I cleared me t'roat
an'perceeded:'Dis is de haven of de oppressed, de pore an'de unforchernit from all shores.'I
give de signal wot means cheers, an'dey yelled for two minits.'Dis is our berloved Ameriky!'sez I,'where
no tyrant's heel is ever knowed,'sez I,'where all men is ekal,'sez I,'an'where we, feller-citerzens,
un'er de gallorious banner of REFORM--'an'at dat word, dey all jes'got up on deir feet an'stamped,
an'yelled, an'waved deir hats an'coats till you'd er t'ought dey was a Legislatur'of lunatics.
Oh, I got'em in good shape-- doncher bodder about me. "" Ahem, "said Mr. O'Meagher thoughtfully,
as he cracked his finger-joints and puffed on his cigar."

You've done well, Tuff, excellent. Ah, Tuff, there's going to be a meeting in the Cooper Union to-morrow
night. The people that are getting it up-- er, well, I'm afraid they're not very friendly to me,
Tuff. The doors open at seven. Now, do you think the proceedings would be interesting enough to
your friends for them to attend in such numbers as will fill the hall, Tuff? "" Say no more,
Mr. O'Meagher, dey'll be dere. "" In large numbers, Tuff? "" Dey'll
jam de hall.

"" Early, Tuff? "" By half-past six. "" Good.

I think you'll find the policemen on duty there very good fellows.

You might see me to-morrow morning, Tuff, and I'll have something
for you.

"VI. THE HON. DOYLE O'MEAGHER.

(CONCLUDED.) All bedecked with light and all ablaze with color, the
Cooper Union was fast filling up with the friends of Reform.

So enormous had the crowds in Astor Place become that, although the hour was early, Colonel Sneekins
had wisely concluded to wait no longer, but at once to let them in.

They poured through the wide doorways in abundant streams, while
Colonel Sneekins led the superb brass band of the 7th Regiment, done
up in startling uniforms and carrying along with it a tremendous battery
of horns and drums, to its place in the gallery.

Colonel Machiavelli Sneekins sustained an important relation to the
Reform movement, and at this Grand Rally of Non-Partisan Citizens
in the Interest of Reform, he had, with great propriety, selected
himself to be Master of Ceremonies.

Colonel Sneekins was a non-partisan citizen.

He looked upon partisanship as the curse of the Republic, and in his more enthusiastic moments
had declared that if he could have his way about it, any man so hopelessly dead to the nobler
impulses of the human heart as to confess himself a partisan should be declared guilty of a felony and
confined for a proper period of years at hard labor. What the country called for, according to Colonel
Sneekins, was Reform. The first step in bringing about the triumph of Reform was to put all the offices
in the hands of Reformers.

If the public wished to intoxicate its eyes with the spectacle of the kind of men who would
then administer the Government, it had but to look upon him. He was a Reformer. As a Reformer he was
in possession of a lucrative municipal office, wherein he was mightily prospering, and which
for the honor and glory of Reform he was willing to retain. Colonel Sneekins was the leading spirit
of this citizens'movement. He had prepared the call of the meeting. He had obtained the 1500 signatures
now appended to it, representing estimable business men who, in observing that useful maxim of trade,"
We strive to please, "esteemed it one of their functions to sign
all the petitions that came along.

Colonel Sneekins had hired the hall and the band; had made up from the City Directory a formidable
list of Vice-Presidents and Secretaries; had secured the orators, and finally had arranged for
the attendance of a sufficient audience. In perfecting these details he had had the valuable
assistance of other distinguished Reformers and non-partisan citizens. Editor Hacker, of The New York
Daily Sting, had boomed the movement with great zeal and effectiveness. General Divvy, the ex-Governor
of South Carolina, who had grown wealthy reforming that State and
had thereafter naturally come to be regarded as an authority on all
matters connected with reform, had written an earnest letter commending
the rally as one of the most important steps that had ever been taken
in the direction of pure and frugal government.

The Rev. Dr. Lillipad Froth, from his pulpit in the Memorial Church of the Sacred Vanities,
had taken occasion to say that great results to the community might be expected from the success
of this patriotic enterprise, and ex-Congressman Van Shyster, being interviewed by a reporter
of The Sting, after expressing his unqualified opinion that all political parties were utterly
corrupt and abandoned, whereof his opportunity of judging had certainly been excellent, since he
had suffered numerous defeats as the candidate of each of them successively, emphatically declared that
he saw no hope for the city except in the cause this meeting was called to foster. No definite
purpose had been expressed in the published call as to what should
be done at the Rally, but Colonel Sneekins's plans were fully matured.

The Hon. Doyle O'Meagher, the Boss of Tammany Hall, had promised that his organization should indorse
for the office of Mayor the nominee presented by the Reformers. As to the identity of their
candidate there was but one mind among the Reformers. Who should he be but that champion
of Reform, the Hon. Perfidius Ruse? Mr. Ruse was not an experiment. He had already served as
the City's Chief Magistrate, and had filled many remunerative offices with Reformers. Being
of a modest and retiring disposition, he was now holding aloof from the honors sought to be thrust
upon him. He had begged his friends to take some new candidate, he
had pleaded his well-known dislike of office and the pressing demands of
his private affairs. But, nevertheless, zealous as he was in the Reform
cause, he had consented to furnish a delegation of 500 citizens from
his morocco factories in Hoboken to swell the Grand Rally in the Cooper
Union, and had given his friend, Colonel Sneekins, an ample check
wherewith to procure portraits and pamphlets presenting to the public
the features and the services of the Hon. Perfidius Ruse.

It was Colonel Sneekins's intention totally to disregard Mr. Ruse's
plea for rest from official cares, and as he now from behind the wings
contemplated the great crowd that was surging into the Cooper Union,
he rubbed his hands and gleamed his teeth with such intensity of emotion
that the Rev. Dr. Lillipad Froth, who was standing near by, felt his
flesh a-creeping.

It was certainly an extraordinary crowd. It had assembled almost in an instant. Scarcely had
the policemen taken their places at the doors of the Cooper Union when a bulky, variegated young
man stepped up to one of them." Hello! "he said." Hello, Meejor, "responded the officer." When'll
yer open de door? "" Air ye wantin't'git in, Meejor? "" Doncher know I got a gang to-night? "" So
ye have, Meejor, so ye have. Oi was hearin'about it, av coorse. It's the Tim Tuff Assowseashun,
aint it? "" Now, looker yere! "said Tuff sharply," Aincher got no orders'bout dis meetin'? "" Oi
have that, Meejor. Oi was towld that you an'some friends av yourn moight be a-wantin'seats, an'Oi
was ter see that ye got'em. "" Dat's all right, den. Me an'my frien's'll be along in about ten
minutes, an'dey'll be enough of us ter fill de hall, an'dere's one t'ing yer wants ter keep
in yer head, and dat's dis-- ef me an'my frien's don't get a chance ter jam dis house before anybody
else is'lowed inside de door, de Hon'able Doyle O'Meagher'll be wantin'ter
know de reason why! "Having thus delivered himself Tuff sauntered down
the Bowery, and presently from all points of the compass a tremendous
rabble began to pour into Astor Place and to mass itself in front
of the Cooper Union.

Tuff himself reappeared in a few moments, and when Colonel Sneekins gave the signal for the doors
to be opened Tuff and his friends took easy and complete possession
of the house. Meanwhile the Hon. Perfidius Ruse stood in a little
room at the rear of the stage receiving the invited guests of the
occasion.

Mr.
Pickles, the well-known Broome Street grocer, assumed a look of intense
morality and importance, as the Mayor asked him how he did and expressed
his gratification at seeing the honored name of Pickles-- a power
in the commercial world-- enrolled among the friends of reform.

The appearance of General Divvy put the Mayor in quite a flutter,
and when the General told him that he positively must consent to run
again, and that he was the only hope of the Reformers, the Mayor was
much affected."

I fear I am, "he replied, with
a mournful shake of the head, as much as to say what a commentary
that was on the absence of virtue in public life.

Editor Hacker was equally earnest in his appeals.

He said the Mayor must come
right out, and referred to a conversation he had had with the President
only last week, in which the President had confidentially said he
was as much in favor of Reform as ever.

Dr. Punk, who stands at the very head of the medical profession,
informed the Rev. Lillipad Froth that it was his deliberate opinion,
should Mr. Ruse desert them in this crisis, all would be over.

Something like dismay
was created by the ominous remark of ex-Congressman Van Shyster that
others might do as they pleased, but as for him, his mind was made
up.

At this critical juncture the Hon. Erastus Spiggott,
the orator of the evening, opportunely arrived, and upon being told
that Mr. Ruse was still hesitating, he boldly declared that the only
thing to do was to take the bull by the horns.

Fired by the cheers elicited by this
observation, he proceeded to say that the occasion which had brought
together the large and representative body of citizens assembled
in the hall beyond, and waiting only for the opportunity to indorse
the wise and safe and honorable administration of Mayor Ruse (loud
cheers) and to place him again in nomination, would live in history.

(Cries of" good! good! ") That vast
and intelligent audience was not there to record the edict of corrupt
and selfish bosses, but as thoughtful, independent, and patriotic citizens,
free from the shackles of partisanship (loud applause), they had come
together to promote the honor and the prosperity of this imperial metropolis.
Mr. Spiggott was entirely satisfied that among them there was no
division of sentiment as to the course that should be pursued to secure
this noble end.

They knew as
well as he, as well as any of the gentlemen about him now, that the
Reform cause stood in peril of but one misfortune-- the retirement of
the great, unselfish, popular, and devoted man who had already led
the Reformers to victory. (Rapturous applause.) He did not fail to appreciate
the modesty that led Mr. Ruse to undervalue his magnificent services to
the city.

He could well understand his (Mr. Ruse's)
desire to return to his counting-room and his fireside free of the burdens
and anxieties incident to a great trust. But-- and here Mr. Spiggott's
bosom swelled and his eyes flashed with a noble fire-- he was not here
to-night to consider Mr. Ruse's feelings and wishes; he was here, as
they all were, in the discharge of a public duty. (Cheers.) That duty
required of Mr. Ruse an act of self-sacrifice. He must accept the nomination.
He could not, he would not dare desert the Banner of Reform. (Cheers.)
Mr. Spiggott paused, wiped his brow and his eyeglasses, and continued. He
might say in this small and select company of Reformers what it might
be imprudent to assert later in the evening, when he came to address
the great assembly in the outer hall, that the outcome of this meeting
was being keenly watched by the spoilsmen.

They were a cunning and sagacious lot. The
one thing they most dreaded was the very thing this meeting was going
to do.

He had the best reasons for knowing
that Boss O'Meagher mightily desired to nominate a candidate of his
own at the Tammany Hall convention. Who had been selected by this
unprincipled partisan, this arrogant and odious dictator (loud and
long applause), he did not know. But he was certain to be a partisan, a
spoilsman, a tool of Tammany Hall and its corrupt boss. Mr. Ruse's nomination
to-night would deal a deadly blow to that plot. Tammany Hall would
not dare risk the defeat of its entire ticket by nominating a candidate against
the Hon. Perfidius Ruse. (Immense enthusiasm.) Indeed, Mr. Spiggott
had reason to believe that Boss O'Meagher, cunning trickster that he was,
would seek to avail himself of Mr Ruse's popularity and would indorse
the nominee of this meeting. Writing the same week to her brother, Marie Antoinette, with a confidence which
could only spring from a sincere attachment to the whole nation, reiterated her old opinion
that "the good citizens and good people had always in their hearts been friendly to the king
and herself;[2]" and expressed her belief that since the acceptance of the Constitution the
people "had again learned to trust them." She was "far from giving herself up to a blind confidence.
She knew that the disaffected had not abandoned their treasonable purposes; but, as the king
and she herself were resolved to unite themselves in sincere good faith to the people, it was
impossible but that, when their real feelings were known, the bulk of the people should return
to them. The mischief was that the well-meaning knew not how to act in concert."

It did seem as if she were correct in her estimate of the feelings of the citizens, when, in
the evening of the day on which Louis had opened the Assembly, the whole royal family, including
the two children, went to the opera; and, as if with express design to ratify the loyal language
of the president of the Assembly, the whole audience greeted them with a most enthusiastic
reception. More than once they interrupted the performance with loud cheers for both king and
queen; and as the pleasure of children is always an attractive sight, they sympathized especially
with the delight of the little dauphin, their future king, as they all then thought him, who,
being new to such a spectacle, only took his eyes off the stage to imitate the gestures of
the actors to his mother, and draw her attention to them.

In more than one of her letters the queen had vehemently deplored the want of a stronger ministry
than of late had been in the king's service. It was a natural complaint, though in fact the
ability or want of ability displayed by the ministers was a matter of but slight practical
importance, so completely had the Assembly engrossed the whole power of the State; but in the
course of the autumn some changes were made, one of which for a time certainly added to the
comfort of the sovereigns. M. Montmorin retired; M. de Lessart was transferred to his office;
and M. Bertrand de Moleville, who was entirely new to official life, became the minister of
marine. The whole kingdom did not contain a man more attached to the king and queen. CHARLIE
SCOTT; OR, THERE'S TIME ENOUGH.***** CHAPTER I. A SHIP AT LAST.

"This has been a hard month for me," thought Morley Scott, the pilot,
as he stood shading his eyes from the sun, and gazing anxiously out
at sea.

He hoped to have caught a glimpse of ships in the distance, for the
winds had been very contrary lately.

Many ships had been obliged to pass by the harbour, unable to get
in, and the pilots had found very little to do.

"That looks well," he thought, brightening up, as he saw a busy little
steam-tug puffing along with a ship in tow; he knew a pilot would
soon be wanted to bring it safely into the docks.

He had not stood many minutes, trying to make out the ship, when
he heard his name called, and turning round, he saw a boy running
towards him.

"Here's the Refuge at last, Morley Scott," said the boy; "they want you on board directly, because they
are coming in to-night." Morley Scott put his hand in his pocket, and gave the lad the customary
sixpence for his good tidings. "It's almost the last," he said with a smile, pointing to the
sixpence; "but still the news is cheap at that."

"I should think it is," said the boy, as he ran off laughing. Morley Scott walked quickly along
the pier until he came up to a row of boys, who were sitting on the edge of the wall, fishing. He
stood for a moment to watch them with an expression of amusement in his good-natured face. They
sat perfectly still, afraid to speak or move, and scarcely daring
to breathe, lest they should frighten away the fish; each boy watching
his own and his neighbour's line with feverish anxiety.

Suddenly one little fellow, in a state of great excitement, began tugging
at his line.

"Now then, Charlie Scott," called a big boy, who seemed to be the head of the party, "what are you pulling
in that line for again? That is the third time in less than ten minutes; how is it likely we
can catch anything?"

All the boys joined in a low chorus of "Yes, indeed!"

"A pretty fellow he is to fish!" "Serves us right for letting him come with us." The fact was,
the boys had been very unsuccessful that afternoon; they had taken nothing, and it was a relief
to have some one to lay the blame upon. "I am sure there's something this time, though," said Charlie,
still pulling away. His manner was so confident, that the boys became interested in spite
of themselves, and several nearly lost their balance, craning out their necks to see beyond each other.
At last up came the hook, with a jerk that sent Charlie backwards;
it had been entangled in a large piece of seaweed, that gave way suddenly
just as he got it to the surface.

"It's very strange," he said, as he examined the hook minutely, longing to find something alive,
no matter how small. "It's very strange; I'm always feeling something, and yet I never catch
anything."

"I tell you what it is, young Scott, if you don't mind what you're
about, you'll both feel something and catch something soon that you
won't like, perhaps," grumbled the big boy.

"Here, Charlie," called Morley Scott, seeing there was likely to be a quarrel, "I want you to
run on an errand for me." Charlie looked round, and seeing his father, he jumped up readily. To tell the
truth, he was not sorry of the excuse to give up his fishing; he
had been thoroughly tired of it for the last quarter of an hour, although
he did not like to own it to the other boys.

He was a bright, happy-looking little fellow, about eight years of age, with light, waving hair,
merry blue eyes, and sunburnt face. "What is it, father?" he asked. "I want you to run and find uncle
John; tell him that the Refuge is lying off at sea, waiting for us.

Ask him to come with you, because they want to be into the docks to-night." Away ran Charlie with his
message, and soon returned with uncle John. All three then made their way to the docks, where a
number of small boats were moored. "Do take me with you, father," pleaded Charlie, as the two men
jumped into one of the boats and prepared to push off.

"No, no, Charlie, not this time," said his father; "remember you have your lessons to learn; besides,
I dare say you have not had your tea."

"Oh, I can learn my lessons when I come back, and I've got a large bun here," he said, lifting
up his jacket to show it; "uncle John bought it for me as we came
along.

Please do let me go, it's so miserable now, when you are away; I never like to go home, Mrs.
Wood is so cross." "Well, jump in then," said his father, with a sigh; he knew how the boy
missed his kind, gentle mother. She had been dead nearly six months, and since then Charlie and
he seemed to have been without a home. When his wife died Morley Scott scarcely knew what to do for
the best.

He had no relation who could take charge of Charlie and of his house,
so he thought it would be best to sell his furniture and go to lodgings.

It seems he had not been very fortunate in his choice, for according to Charlie's account Mrs.
Wood, the landlady, was often ill-tempered.

The two men took their oars, and began to pull in the direction of the ship that was lying out
some distance from the harbour.

Charlie had found himself a snug little corner in the stern of the boat, and was enjoying himself
thoroughly in a quiet way, catching at the bits of floating seaweed
and chips, spreading his fingers out like the arches of a miniature
bridge, and letting the water rush through them, occasionally munching
at his huge bun by way of variation.

For a wonder Charlie's busy tongue was still; he saw by his father's countenance that he was
not in a mood for talking.

It wore a troubled, saddened expression; he was living over the old sorrow that Charlie's words had called
up. His uncle, too, seemed in deep thought, and rowed on in silence; although they were unconscious
of it, perhaps, there is no doubt that all three felt the influence
of that beautiful calm summer evening.

The rich hues of the setting sun were gradually fading out from the sky, yet wonderful shades of
crimson, rose colour, and gold, still lingered lovingly amongst the clouds, and rested upon the waters.
All the bustle of the town had been left far behind; there was nothing to break the silence but the
measured plash of the oars, and the soft rippling and murmuring
of the water as the little boat rode lightly over the waves.

As Charlie gazed up at the glorious sky, he began to wonder where the sun went to every night,
and how it was that there were always such lovely colours in the
sky just where it disappeared; at last he came to the conclusion that
the sun went into heaven, and that beautiful golden and rose-coloured
light streamed out when the door was opened.

Charlie liked this idea so much, that he was quite disappointed when he learned afterwards
that it was not the case. "What a grand place heaven must be!" thought Charlie, remembering what
he had heard at Sunday school. "How splendid God's angels must look, floating about in that beautiful
light, with their white robes and crowns of gold!" Charlie went on thinking and thinking much in
the same strain, until at last the ship was neared.

Morley Scott brought in his oars with a sudden movement, and springing up in the boat, hailed the
ship, "Refuge ahoy!" CHAPTER II. GOING HOME. It is more than hour
since we left Morley Scott hailing the Refuge.

How is it that the ship has not been moved yet? And here is the little boat turned homeward, and
strangers have the charge of it. Is Charlie asleep, that he lies there so pale and still?
he has not moved once since we looked.

And that something lying in the boat, covered by a ship's colour, what can it be? The night air
is damp and chill, and the sea looks grey and deadly in the twilight. One of the sailors leans
forward to look at Charlie. "Poor little one," he murmurs, in a kind but sad tone. "I wish
we were yonder," said the other sailor, moving his head in the direction of the town. "I don't
like the look of that boy at all; it may only be fainting, but it
looks to me more like death than anything else."

It was almost dark when they reached the harbour. "You stay with
the boat," said the sailor who spoke just before, "and I'll go up
into the town and see about help." A man who had noticed their arrival
sauntered up, curious to know if anything was the matter. "Morley
Scott and his brother are drowned." In answer to the man's anxious
questions, the sailor told him that when Scott's boat came along-side
the ship a rope was thrown to them as usual to be made fast, and,
unfortunately, both Scott and his brother sprang forward to catch
it; the boat gave a violent lurch, and in a moment they were plunged
into the sea, Morley Scott's head striking the ship's side as he
fell.

His brother was never seen again; they supposed he must have come up underneath the ship, and so
met certain death.

Morley Scott's body they recovered, and had brought with them in the boat. The sad news that two men
had been drowned soon spread, and before long many anxious, awe-stricken faces were gazing down
into the boat at the object which lay terribly still, covered by the ship's colour. When poor little
Charlie was lifted up, many a mother, with tears in her eyes, love
in her heart, and thoughts of the little ones at home, pressed forward
with offers to take the boy.

One woman was even more eager than the rest: "Let me have him," she said; "he is like my own
child that I lost last year come back again," and trembling with,
emotion, she took poor Charlie, who was still unconscious, in her
arms.

"I'll carry him home for you, Mrs. Heedman," said one of the men,
kindly; "it's a good way to your house, and you'd find him heavy before
you got there."

When Charlie awoke, as he thought, from sleep, he found himself,
to his great astonishment, in a neat little bed with white curtains
and counterpane.

A small table stood near, with a glass, and bottles of medicine, such as he remembered to have
seen when his mother was ill; and opposite his bed hung a picture of the finding of Moses. It was
very strange: Charlie rubbed his eyes, thinking he could not be quite
awake, surely, and looked again; but the things were still there.

Then he tried to remember what happened before he went to sleep, but his head felt so weak and
light that he could not think. He put his hand out and felt the curtains; they were real enough.
Just as he was making up his mind that he would try to sit up and
look about the room, the door was gently opened, and a pleasant face
peeped in.

Charlie remembered at once that it was good, kind Mrs. Heedman, who used to come and see his mother
when she was ill. She seemed surprised and glad to see that he knew
her, and coming quickly up to him, gave him a kiss, put his pillow
to rights, and told him he must not get up yet.

"I feel very tired, Mrs. Heedman," said Charlie languidly; "have I
been asleep long?"

"You have been very ill, dear," she answered, gently, "so ill that you did not know any one for
a few days.

Are you glad I brought you here to this nice little bed, to take
care of you?"

"Oh yes, thank you," said Charlie, earnestly. Mrs. Heedman saw that he was thinking and trying
to remember something, so to change the current of his thoughts she
poured out his medicine, and handed it to him.

"Now drink this up, like a good boy," she said, "then I will bring
you some beef tea soon."

Charlie rather unwillingly, and with a wry face, drank the mixture.

As he gave her back the glass, his eye rested on a picture that had been hidden before by the curtain;
it was a ship and some small boats at sea. In a moment the something that he had been trying to
remember flashed upon him, and burying his face in the pillow to shut out the picture, he sobbed
out, "Oh, father, father!" Mrs. Heedman stood quietly by, waiting until the first burst of grief
was over, and asking in her heart for the help of God's Holy Spirit to teach her what she had best
say to comfort him.

Presently the heavy sobs almost ceased; but Charlie did not move
or speak.

She took his hand in hers smoothing and caressing it, as if to assure him of her sympathy. "Charlie
dear," she said gently, "it is very sad, and very hard to bear, is it not?" Charlie did not
speak.

She sat down beside him, still keeping his hand in hers, and went on speaking. "Last year, when my
own dear little boy died-- you remember Tom, don't you, Charlie? Well, when he was taken from me,
I thought my heart would have broken; it seemed as if I should never be happy again. I felt sad and
ill, and weary of everything, just as you feel now." Charlie turned towards her, and looked interested.
"For some weeks I was very unhappy, and thought no one had such a
trouble as mine; but afterwards I learned how wrong it was of me to
find fault with God's will; and when I began to count up all the blessings
I had received, and remembered all that my dear Lord Jesus Christ
had done and suffered for me, I felt sure that He who loved me so
much would not let me suffer any pain or sorrow that was not necessary
for my good."

Charlie was listening attentively; he quite understood all Mrs. Heedman said. His mother had often read to
him out of the Bible, and spoken to him of the Saviour.

Mrs. Heedman went on: "You must remember, Charlie, that you are now one of God's very dear children.
We are all His children, but He has especial love and care for those whom He has been obliged
to leave without any earthly parents. God promises in His own holy book, the Bible, that He will
be'a Father to the fatherless;'that He will relieve the fatherless;
that He will help the fatherless; and that if the fatherless cry unto
Him, He will surely hear their cry.

When you are stronger, I will find the passages and read them to you, and many others that are
very comforting. Now it is quite time that you had your beef tea; I will get it for you, and
then we can talk again." Charlie thought the beef tea was delicious; he was already beginning
to feel that relish for savoury food that most fever patients experience when they are recovering.
"It's very nice," he kept repeating; and every now and then Mrs. Heedman met his blue eyes
gazing into hers with a thoughtful, inquiring sort of look. At last
he said, "Mrs. Heedman, do you think it was God who put it into your
heart to bring me here and be so kind to me?"

"Yes,
Charlie, I am sure of it." "Then I'm quite sure that God loves me," said
Charlie, energetically. "I can't help crying when I think about father,"
as he burst into another flood of tears; "but," he added, "I will
try not to think any more that it was not kind of God to let him be
drowned and leave me by myself.

I was thinking so a little while since;" and dropping
his voice, he went on, "I want you, please, to tell me all about
it-- where father is, and uncle John.

I saw them lift some one out of
the water, dead, but I forget what happened after." Mrs. Heedman
told him as gently and as kindly as she could about his father's funeral;
who arranged it, and where he was buried, and that his uncle's body
had not been found.

"When you are better, Charlie, we will go and
see the grave, and you shall set some flowers on it." "When I am a man,"
burst in Charlie, "I shall buy a beautiful tombstone for it." Even without their advice he would have rejected the decree against
the priests, as one absolutely incompatible with his reverence for religion and its ministers;
and his conduct on this subject supplies one more striking parallel to the history of the great
English rebellion; since there can hardly be a more precise resemblance between events occurring
in different ages and different countries than is afforded by the resistance made by Charles
to the last vote of the London Parliament against the bishops, and this resistance of Louis
to the will of the Assembly on behalf of the priests, and by the fatal effect which, in each
case, their conscientious and courageous determination had upon the fortunes of the two sovereigns.

Louis therefore put his veto on both the decrees, with the exception of that clause in the
act against the emigrants which summoned his brothers to return to the kingdom. But, that no
one might pretend to fancy that he either approved of the conduct of the emigrants or sympathized
with their principles or designs, he issued a circular letter to the governors of the different
sea-ports, in which he remonstrated most earnestly with the sailors, numbers of whom, as it
was reported in Paris, were preparing to follow their example. He pointed out in it that those
who thus deserted their country mistook their duty to that country, to him as their king, and
to themselves; that the present aspect of the nation, desirous to return to order and to submission
to the law, removed every pretext for such conduct. He set before them his own example, and
bid them remain at their posts, as he was remaining at his; and, in language more impressive
than that of command, he exhorted them not to turn a deaf ear to his prayers; and at the same
time he addressed letters to the electors of Trèves and Mayence, and to the other petty German
princes whose territories, bordering on the Rhine, were the principal resort of the emigrants,
requiring them to cease to give them shelter, and announcing that if they should refuse to
remove them from their dominions he should consider their refusal a sufficient ground for war;
while, to show that he did not intend this menace to be a dead letter, he soon afterward announced
to the Assembly that he had ordered a powerful army of a hundred and fifty thousand men to
be moved toward the frontier, under the command of Marshal Luckner, Marshal Rochambeau, and
General La Fayette, and he invited the members to vote a levy of fifty thousand more men to
raise the force of the nation to its full complement.

War of some kind--foreign war, civil war, or both combined--had apparently become inevitable;
and Marie Antoinette deceived herself if she thought that the armed congress of sovereigns,
for which she was above all things anxious, could lead to any other result. In any ease, a
congress must have produced one consequence which she deprecated as much as any other, a waste
of time, while, as she truly said, her enemies never wasted a moment. Nor, with the very different
views of the policy to be pursued, which the emperor and the King of Prussia entertained (Frederick
being an advocate of an armed intervention in the affairs of France, which Leopold opposed
as impracticable, and, if practicable, impolitic), was it easy to see how a congress could
have brought those monarchs to agree on any united system of action. But all projects of that
kind necessarily fell to the ground in consequence of the death of the emperor, which took
place, after a very short illness, on the 1st of March, 1792; and before the end of the same
month the royal family lost another warm friend in Gustavus of Sweden, who was assassinated
in the very midst of preparations which he confidently hoped might contribute to deliver his
brother sovereign from his troubles.

Marie Antoinette spoke truly when she said that the enemies of the crown never lost time. The
very prospect of war increased the divisions of the Assembly, since the Jacobins were undisguisedly
averse to it. Not one of their body had any reputation for skill in arms, so that in the event
of war it was evident that the chief commands, both in army and navy, must be conferred on
persons unconnected with them; while the Girondins, though, as far as was yet known, equally
destitute of members possessed of any military ability, looked on war as favorable to their
designs, whatever might be the issue of a campaign. They were above all things eager for the
destruction of the monarchy, and they reckoned that if the French army were victorious, its
success would disable those who were most willing and might be most able to support the throne;
while, if the enemy should prevail, it would be easy to represent their triumph as the fruit
of the mismanagement, if not of the treachery, of the king's generals and ministers; and the
opposition of these two parties was at this time so notorious that the queen thought it favorable
to the king, since each would be eager to preserve him as a possible ally against its adversaries.
It is for her husband's and her child's safety that she expresses anxiety, never for her own.
With respect to herself her uniform language is that of fearlessness. She does not for a moment
conceal from her correspondents her sense of the dangers which surround her. She has not only
open hostility to fear, but treachery, which is far worse; and she declares that "a perpetual
imprisonment in a solitary tower on the sea-shore would be a less cruel fate than that which
she daily endures from the wickedness of her enemies and the weakness of her friends. Every
thing menaces an inevitable catastrophe; but she is prepared for every thing. She has learned
from her mother not to fear death. That may as well come to-day as to-morrow. She only fears
for her dear children, and for those she loves; and high among those whom she loves she places
her sister-in-law Elizabeth, who is always an angel aiding her to support her sorrows, and
who, with her poor, dear children, never quits her.[1]"

A long continuance of sorrows and fears, such as had now for nearly three years pressed upon
the writer of this letter, would so wear away and break down ordinary souls that, when a crisis
came, they would be found wholly unequal to grapple with it; and we may therefore the better
form some idea of the strength of mind and almost superhuman fortitude of this admirable queen,
if, from time to time, we fix our attention on these not exaggerated complaints, for indeed
the misfortunes that elicited them admit of no exaggeration; and then remember that, after
so long a period of such uninterrupted suffering, her spirit was so far from being broken,
that, as increasing dangers and horrors thickened around her, her courage seemed to increase
also. "It's all right," said the matron. "I'm sorry to trouble you so much, but I have to be
very careful."

"You needn't apologize. Now can I go?"

"Yes."

She adjusted her hat and proceeded through the long corridors out into the prison yard, and thence
into the old prison where Tulitz was confined. The guard who had sent her Tulitz's letter led
her to his cell, and brought a stool for her to sit upon outside
his grated iron door.

"My ravissante Corinne!" cried Tulitz.

She put her fingers through the bars, and he bent to kiss them, coming, as he did so, in contact
with two little files of the hardest steel.

"Diable!" he said.

"I had them in my hat. I made them serve as the stems of these lilies."

"Ze woman she make ze wily t'ing. How young and charmante she seem for one so like ze fox!
Ah, Corinne, my sweetest lofe--"

"You don't mean that."

"Not mean him! Mon Dieu! How can you haf ze heart to say ze cruel
word.

Corinne, you are ze only frient I haf in ze whole bad worlt."

"Yes, I know that. But not the only wife."

"Why you torture me so, Corinne?"

"I wont. We'll let it go. You need me, I suppose?"

"You use all ze cold word, Corinne. I neet you! Oui, oui, I efer neet you. I neet you ven I
stay from you ze longest. I neet you ven ze bad come into my heart and drive out ze good and
tender, and leave only ze hard, and make me crazy and full of dream of fortune. Zen I am out
of myself and den I neet you ze most, Corinne. Zat I haf been cruel and vicked, I know, but
I am punish now. Now, I neet you in my despair, but if you come to speak bitter, I am sorry to haf
send for you."

"I'll not be bitter, Tulitz. I don't believe you love me, and I never will believe it again.
So don't say tender things. They only make me sad. Tell me what--"

"You do pelief I lofe you."

"No."

"Chérie."

"Don't, Tulitz!"

"You know I haf a so hot blood. It tingle viz lofe for you and I am sane. Zen I dream. I see
some strange sight-- power, money, ze people at my feet-- ze people I hate, bah! I see zem all
bend. Zen I am insane and my very lofe make me vorse. Ah, Corinne, if you see my heart, you
vould not speak so cold. If I could preak zis iron door zat bar me from you and draw you close
to me, Corinne, vere you could feel ze quick beat zat say,'lofe! lofe! lofe!'-- if I could
take your hand and kees--"

"Tulitz!"

"My sveetheart!"

"Hush, please, Tulitz. Don't say those things now. I can't stand them. I shall scream. Tulitz,
I love you so!"

"Ah, I know zat. You haf no dream zat rob you of your mind. And I shall haf no more soon. Ven
ze trial come, and ze shury make me guilty, and ze shudge--"

"No! no! You must escape."

"Ze reech escape, little von. Ze poor nefer. Zat is law. Ha! ha! you know not law. Law is ze science
by vich a man who has money do as he tam please and snap his finger-- so!
and shrug his shoulder-- so! and say,'You not like it?

Vat I care, Monsieur?'and by vich ze poor man, vedder he guilty or not, haf no single chance,
not von, to escape. I haf not efen ze two huntret tollaire zat gif
me my liberty till ze trial come."

"Neither
have I, Tulitz, and the only way I can get it is to part with something I love better than-- never
mind, you shall have the two hundred dollars."

"You mean our ring, Corinne?"

"Yes."

"You shall not sell ze ring. Nefer!"

"But I must. We will get it back."

"No, I forbid! I stay here first." Corinne's face fairly glowed with
tenderness.

"Let me do as I think best, darling," she said. "The first thing is to get you out of this wretched
place. Now tell me all about it."

He told her all, or, at least, all he needed to tell, and she left him with the understanding that
she should meet the guard in the City Hall Park two hours later and arrange about the bail-bond
with a man whom he should present to her. She hurried up-town and collected in her lodgings half
a dozen valuable pieces of jewelry. These she took to a pawnshop and upon them she realized something
more than the sum necessary to obtain Tulitz's bondsman. At the appointed hour she was walking
leisurely through the Park, and soon found herself approaching two men. One she recognized as the
guard. The other was an elderly man dressed in a black suit of broadcloth which, in its time, had been
very fine indeed.

But it was made for him when he was younger and less corpulent than now, and he bulged it out
in a way that was trying to the stitches and the buttons. His silk hat was shiny, but exceedingly
worn, and the boots upon his feet, despite his creditable efforts to make them appear at all possible
advantage, were in a rebellious humor, like a glum soldier in need of sleep. His hair was bushy
and gray, and his mustache meant to be gray, too, but his habit of chewing the ends of his cigars had
resulted in its taking on a yellow border.

"Dis is the gen'l'man wot'll go on Mr. Tulitz's bond, mum," said
the guard. "His name's Rivers."

"Madam
Tulitz, I am your humble and obedient servant. Colonel Rivers, Colonel Edward Lawrence Rivers,
and most happy in this unfortunate emergency to serve you. I have read in the papers of M. Tulitz's
disagreeable-- er-- situation. It is a gross outrage. The bail is$ 5000, this gentleman tells me.
Infamous, perfectly infamous! The idea of requiring such a bond for so trivial an affair. When
I was in Congress I introduced an Amendment to the Constitution providing that no bail should
be demanded in excess of$ 500. It didn't get through; the capitalistic influence was too much
for me. However, I'd just as lief, to tell the truth, go on M. Tulitz's
bond for five thousand as for one.

I know he'll be where he's wanted when the time comes, and if he isn't, the bail-bond will.
They'll have that to console themselves with, anyway."

"Where are we to go?" asked Corinne.

"To the police court. I'll show you; but when we get there you mustn't ask me any questions.
Ask anybody else but me. I'm always very ignorant in the police court-- never know anything, except
my answers to the surety examination.

Those I always learn by heart. Now--" he turned to the guard, and said parenthetically, "All
right, my boy," whereupon the guard disappeared. "Now, just take my arm, if you please; you needn't
be afraid, ha! ha! I'm old, and wont hurt you. You see, we must be friends, old friends. Bless
you, my child, I've known you from a baby, knew your father before you, dear old boy, and promised
him on his dying bed I'd be a father to his-- er-- by the way, my
dear, what's your name?"

"Corinne. Do you want my maiden name?"

"No, never mind that. I always supply a maiden name myself when I deal with ladies, on the ground,
you see, that it's much better to keep real names out of bail-bonds, even where they don't
signify. In fact, the less real you put in, anyhow, the better. My signature must be on as many
as a thousand bail-bonds first and last, in this city, Boston, Chicago, San Francisco, and other
places, and I've never yet experienced the slightest trouble. I think my good fortune is almost
wholly due to the circumstance that I never repeat myself. I always tell a new story every
time."

"Do they know you at the place where we're going?"

"I fervently hope they don't, my dear. It wouldn't do M. Tulitz any good, or me either, if they
did. No, no, you must introduce me. I am your friend, your lifelong friend, Colonel Edward Lawrence
Rivers. I am a retired merchant. Formerly I dealt in hides-- perhaps you had better say in
skins, my dear; on second thought, it might be more appropriate to say in skins, and then
again it would be more accurate. I like to tell the truth when I can conveniently and without
prejudice to the rights of the defendant. If I haven't dealt in skins as much as any other man on
the face of the earth, then I don't know what a skin is.

Ha! ha! my dear, I think that's pretty good for an old man whose wits are nearly given out with
the work that has been imposed upon them. Let me say right here that the clerk of the court is a
knowing fellow, and you want to mind your p's and q's. You want to be very confiding and affectionate
in your manner toward me, and I'll do all the rest."

"Is there any danger, sir? Will we be found out? Oh dear! I'm dreadfully
nervous."

"Well, now, you needn't be, my child, you needn't be. I've had a great deal of experience in delicate
matters of this kind, and I guess we'll fetch your husband out all right. As for the danger,
it's all mine, and as for getting found out, that will come in due time, probably; but when
it comes we'll all of us endeavor to view it from a remote standpoint, where we can do so,
I dare say, with comparative equanimity. So keep up your spirits, my dear, and trust to your
old friend, the friend of your childhood, Colonel the Hon. Edward Lawrence Rivers, formerly
a dealer in skins. Ah, here we are!

Just take a look at my necktie, child. Is it tied all right? And is my diamond pin there? No?
Well, where the mischief can it be? Ah, yes, here it is in my pocket. My jewel cases are all
portable. There! Now, we're ready. Look timid, my child, but confident in the final triumph of
your just and righteous cause. Come on."

They entered the court-room. Seated in an inclosure in the custody of an officer was the Baron
Tulitz. His sharp face lighted when he saw them approaching, and, as Corinne took her seat by
his side, he pressed her hand. Presently his case was called, and his lawyer arose to offer bail.
He presented Colonel Rivers. The old man was a spectacle of grave decorum. He answered the questions
put to him about his residence, his family, his place of business and his property, which
he conveniently located in Staten Island, Niagara County, Jersey
City, and Morrisania.

He was worth$ 300,000. He owed nothing. He displayed his deeds. He had never been a bondsman
before. He didn't know Tulitz, but was willing to risk the bail to restore peace to the troubled
mind of this poor little child, the orphan of his old friend and neighbor. Never was there
a bondsman offered more unfamiliar with the forms and ceremonies
necessary to the record of the recognizance.

He had to be told where he should sign, and even then he started to put his name in the wrong
place. But at last it was done, and Tulitz was free.

Corinne's eyes were full of tears when the old man gently drew her arm within his and led her
from the court-room, with Tulitz and his lawyer following. He walked with them as far as Broadway,
and then he turned to say good-by. He kissed her hand gallantly,
and called Tulitz aside.

"Skip!" he said, "and be quick about it!"

IX.

MR. McCAFFERTY.

An incident of the late municipal election has recently come within my knowledge, which I hasten
to communicate to the public, in the hope that an investigation will be ordered by the Legislature,
and, if the facts be as they are represented here (this being a faithful record of what I
have been credibly told), in the further hope that the men who have tampered with the honor
of Dennie McCafferty and his friend, The Croak, will speedily be
brought to justice.

Late one night toward the close of September Dennie was walking down Houston Street toward the
Bowery, when he suddenly espied The Croak walking up Houston Street toward Broadway. As suddenly
The Croak espied him, and both stopped short. They looked at one another long and intently, and
then Dennie wheeled around and without a word led the way into a
saloon near at hand.

"Dice!" said he to the bartender. He rattled the box and threw. "Three
fives!" he cried.

The Croak handled the dice-box with great deliberation. Presently he rolled the ivories out.
"Three sixes," he said slowly, "an'I'll take a pony er brandy."

"That settles it!" cried Dennie joyously. "It's you, Croaker, sure pop. My eyes did not deceive
me. I thought they had, Croaker. I thought I must be laboring under a mental strain. When I
saw you coming up the street I says to myself,'That's The Croak.'Then I took another look, and
says,'No, it can't be.

The Croak's in Joliet doing three years for working the sawdust.'Then I looked again and I says,'It
must be The Croak. There's his cock-eye looking straight at me through the wooden Indian in front of
the cigar-store across the street.'Then I looked once more, and says,'But it can't be. Three years
can't have passed since The Croak and I were dealing faro in old McGlory's.'Once again I looked,
and I says,'If it's The Croak, he'll chuck a bigger dice than mine and stick me for drinks,
and he'll take a pony of brandy.'There's the dice, there's the pony, and there's The Croak. Drink hearty!"
They lifted their glasses and poured down the liquor, and Dennie
continued, "How'd you get out, Croaker?"

"Served me term," said The Croak shortly. "What! Then is it three years? Well, well, how the snows
and the blossoms come and go.

We're growing old, Croaker.

We're nearing the time when the fleeting show will have flet. And hanged if I can see that we're growing
any wiser, or better, or richer-- hey? Thirty cents! Ye gods, Croaker, that man says thirty cents!
Thirty cents, and my entire capital is a lonely ten-cent piece that I kept for luck. Thirty cents,
and my last collateral security hocked and the ticket lost! Croaker, I'm in despair." The Croak dived
into his trowsers pocket, took out a small roll of bills, handed
one to the bartender and another-- a ten-dollar greenback-- to Dennie.

"Dear
boy!" said Dennie, expanding into smiles. "What an uncommon comfort you
are, Croaker. Virtues such as yours reconcile me to a further struggle
with this cold and selfish world.

It has used me pretty hard since I saw you last, Croaker. Not long after you left for the--
er-- West I met an elderly gentleman from Bumville, whom I thought I recognized as a Mr. Huckster.
I spoke to him, but found myself in error. He said his name wasn't Huckster, of Bumville, but Bogle,
of Bogle's Cross Roads. I apologized, left him, and at the corner whom should I see but Tommy, the
Tick. Incidentally I mentioned to Tommy the curious circumstance of my having mistaken Mr. Bogle, of
Bogle's Cross Roads, for Mr. Huckster, of Bumville."'Bogle!'said Tommy.'Bogle! Why, I know Bogle well. He's
a great friend of my uncle's.'Whereupon Tommy hurried off after Bogle. I am not even yet informed
as to what took place between Bogle and Tommy, further than that
they struck up a warm and agreeable acquaintance; that they stopped
in at a dozen places on their way up-town; that poor old Bogle got
drunk and happy; that they went somewhere and took chances in a raffle,
and that they got into a dispute over$ 2000 which Bogle said Tommy
had helped to cheat him out of.

A couple of Byrnes's malignant minions arrested Tommy, and not satisfied with that act of tyranny and
oppression, they actually came to my lonely lodgings and arrested me. What for? you ask in blank amazement.
Has an honest and industrious American citizen no rights? Must it ever be that the poor and downtrodden
are sacrificed to glut the maw of that ten-fold tyrant at Police Headquarters? They charged me
with larceny, with working the confidence game, and despite my protestations
and the eloquence of my learned counsel, who cost me my last nickel,
a hard-hearted and idiotic jury convicted me, and that sandy-haired
old flint at the General Sessions gave me a year and six months in
Sing Sing.

Now, Croaker, when you live in a land where such outrages are committed upon a man simply because
he is poor, you wonder what your fathers fought and bled and died for, don't you, Croaker?
"" I dunno'bout dat, Dennie, but'f I cud talk like er you I'd bin an Eyetalian Prince by dis
time, wid a title wot ud reach across dis room an'jewels ter match, "and The Croak looked at his
friend in undisguised admiration. But Dennie's humor was pensive." Croaker, "said he, drawing the ten-dollar
bill out of his pocket and nodding suggestively to the bartender," look out there in the street.
See that banner stretched from house to house. It reads:'Liberty and Equality! Labor Must Have
the Fruits of Labor!'Now what infernal lies those are! There's no liberty here; and as for equality,
that cop blinking in here through the window really believes he owns the town. That stuff about
labor is all humbug-- molasses for flies.

They're going to have an election to choose a President shortly. What's an election, Croaker?
It's political faro, that's all. The politicians run the bank. Honest fellows, like you and
me, run up against it and get taken in.
The crowd that does the most cheating gets the pot. Ah, Croaker, what are
we coming to? "This thought was too much for Dennie. He threw back
his head and solaced himself with brandy." As I remarked a moment ago,
Croaker, "he said," I have just returned from-- er-- up the river. You
have just returned from-- er-- the West. Our bosoms are heaving with
hopes for the future. We want to earn an honest living. But when
we come to think of what there is left for us to do by which we can regain the proud
position we once had in the community, we find ourselves enveloped
in clouds. "" I was t'inking er sumpin', Dennie, "The Croak replied,
reflectively," jess when I caught sight er you. Your speakin'bout polertics
makes me t'ink of it some more. W'y not get up a'sociashun? "" A what? ""
A'sociashun. Ev'rybody's workin'de perlitical racket now; w'y not take
a hack at it, too? "" Anything, Croaker, anything to give me an honest
penny.

But I don't quite catch on. "" Dey's two coveys runnin'fer Alderman
over on de Eas'Side. One of'em's Boozy-- you knows Boozy. He keeps a
place in de Bowery. De udder's a Dutchman, name er Bockerheisen. Boozy's
de County Democracy man, Bockerheisen's de Tammany. Less git up a'sociashun.
You'll be president an'do de talkin.'I'll be treasurer an'hol'de cash.
"" Croaker, you may not be eloquent, but you have a genius all your
own.

I
begin dimly to perceive what you are driving at. I must think this
over. Meet me here to-morrow at noon. "The district in which the great
fight between Boozy and Bockerheisen was to occur was close and doubtful.

Great interests were at stake in the election.

Colonel
Boozy and Mr. Bockerheisen were personal enemies. Their saloons were
not far apart as to distance, and each felt that his business, as
well as his political future, depended on his success in this campaign.

A third candidate, a Republican, was in
the field, but small attention was paid to him.

A few days after Dennie and
The Croak had their chance meeting in Houston Street, Dennie walked into
Colonel Boozy's saloon. Boozy stood by the bar in gorgeous array." How are
you, Colonel? "said Dennie." It's McCafferty! "cried the Colonel," an'as
hearty as ever. As smilin', too, an'ready, I'm hopin', ter take a han'in
the fight fer his ould frind.

"" I am that, Colonel. How's it going? "" Shmokin'hot,
Dennie, an'divil a wan o'me knows whose end o'the poker is hottest. ""
It's your end, Colonel, that generates the heat, and Dutchy's end
that does the burning.

""
There's poorer wit than yours, Dennie, out of the insane asylums. I'll
shtow that away in me mind an'fire it off in the Boord the nexht
time I make a speech. If I had your brains, lad, I'd a made more out av'em
than you have. "" You've done well enough with your own, "said Dennie."
They tell me it's been a good year for business in the Board, Colonel.
"" Not over-good, Dennie. The office aint what it was once. It useter
be that ye cud make a nate pile in wan terrum, but now wid the assessmints
an'the price of gettin'there, yer lucky if ye come out aven. "" The
trouble is that you fool away your money, Colonel.

You
ought not to hand over to every bummer that comes along.

You should be discreet. There's a big
floating vote in this district, and you can float still more into it
if you go about it the right way.

"The Colonel looked
curiously into Dennie's ingenuous blue eyes, and said with an indifferent
air," Ye mought be right, and then agin ye moughtn't. ""

Oh, certainly, we don't know as much before election
as we do after. "" Is yer mind workin', Dennie?

Air ye figgerin'at somethin'?
"" Oh, no; I happened to meet The Croak this morning-- you know The
Croak, he's in the green-goods line?

"" Do I
know him? Me name's kep'on his bail-bond as reg'lar as on the parish
book. "" Yes, of course; well, I met him, as I was saying, and, to
make a long story short, I found that Bockerheisen had got hold of him,
and they've packed a lot of tenement-houses with Poles and Italians
and organized an association.

There are about 600 of them. Dutchy keeps them in beer,
and that's about all they want, you know.

"Colonel
Boozy had been about to drink a glass of beer as Dennie began this
communication. He had raised the glass to his lips, but it got no further.
His eyes began to bulge and his nose to widen, his forehead to contract
and his jaws to close, and when Dennie stopped and drained off his
amber glass, the Alderman was standing stiff with stupefied rage.

He recovered
speech and motion shortly, however, and both came surging upon him
in a flood. He fetched his heavy beer-glass down upon the bar with
a furious blow, and a volley of oaths such as only a New York Alderman
can utter shot forth like slugs from a Gatling gun.

When this cyclone
of rage had passed away he was left pensive. Dennie, who had remained cool
and sympathetic during the exhibition, now observed:" It is as you
say, Colonel, very wicked in Dutchy thus to seek to win by fraud what
he never could get on his merits.

It is also most
ungrateful in The Croak. Well, I've told you what the facts are.

You'll know
how to manage them. So-long, "and Dennie started for the street.

But the Colonel detained
him." Don't be goin'yet, Dennie, "he said." I want ter talk this bizness over
wid ye.

Come intil the back room, Dennie. "They adjourned into a little
private room at the rear of the bar, and the Alderman drew from a
closet a bottle of wine, a couple of glasses, and a box of cigars."

Dennie, "he said nervously," we must bate'em.
That Dootch pookah aint the fool he looks. Things is feelin'shaky,
an'you mus'undo yer wits fer me an'set'em a-warkin'. If the Dootchy kin
hev a'sosheashin, I kin, too. If he kin run in Poles an'Eyetalyans,
I kin run in niggers an'Jerseymen. "Dennie contemplated a knot-hole
in the floor for several minutes."

No, Colonel, "he said, at last," that wont do. There's
a limit to the number of repeaters that can be brought into the district.
If we fetch too many, there'll be trouble. Dutchy has put up a job
with the police, too, I'm told; they're all training with Tammany
now. Besides, if you get up your gang of six or seven hundred, you don't
make anything; you only offset his gang. You must buy The Croak; that'll
be cheaper and more effective. Then you'll get your association and
Dutchy will get nothing. You will be making him pay for your votes.
"Boozy grasped Dennie's hand admiringly." It's a great head ye have,
Dennie, wid a power o'brains in it an'a talent fer shpakin'' em out.
I'll l'ave the fixin'av it in your hands.

Ye'll see The Croak, Dennie, an'get his figgers,
an'harkee, Dennie, if ye air thrue to me, Dennie, ye'll be makin'a fri'nd,
d'ye moind! "While Dennie was thus engaged with Boozy, The Croak
was occupied in effecting a similar arrangement with Mr. Bockerheisen.
In a few gloomy but well-chosen words, for The Croak, though a mournful,
was yet a vigorous, talker, he explained to Bockerheisen that a wicked
conspiracy had been entered into by Boozy and McCafferty to bring
about his defeat by fraud, and he urged that Mr. Bockerheisen" get
on to'em "without delay."

Dot I vill! "said the German
savagely," I giv you two huntered tolars for der names of der men
vat dot Poozy mitout der law registers!

" He had sanctioned the dismissal of the Constitutional Guard, and the
formation of the new body of troops, which, no one doubted, was intended to be used against
himself; but he was as firmly convinced as ever that his religious duty bound him to refuse
his assent to the decree against the priests, and he refused to do a violence to his conscience,
and to commit what he regarded as a sin. But this very decree was the one which Dumouriez regarded
as the most dangerous one for him to reject, as being that which the Assembly was most firmly
resolved to make law; and, as his most vigorous remonstrances failed to shake the king's resolution
on this point, he resigned his post as a minister, and repaired to the Flemish frontier to
take the command of the army, which greatly needed an able leader.

CHAPTER XXXV.

The Insurrection of June 20th.

Both Jacobins and Girondins felt that the departure of Dumouriez from Paris had removed a formidable
obstacle from their path, and they at once began to hurry forward the preparations for their
meditated insurrection. The general gave in his resignation on the 15th of June, and the 20th
was fixed for an attack on the palace, by which its contrivers designed to effect the overthrow
of the throne, if not the destruction of the entire royal family. It was organized with unusual
deliberation. The meetings of conspirators were attended not only by the Girondin leaders,
to whom Madame Roland had recently added a new recruit, a young barrister from the South, named
Barbaroux, remarkable for his personal beauty, and, as was soon seen, for a pitiless hardness
of heart, and energetic delight in deeds of cruelty that, even in that blood-thirsty company,
was equaled by few; with them met all those as yet most notorious for ferocity--Danton and
Legendre, the founders of the Cordeliers; Marat, daily, in his obscene and blasphemous newspaper,
clamoring for wholesale bloodshed; Santerre, odious as the sanguinary leader of the very first
outbreaks of the Revolution; Rotondo, already, as we have seen, detected in attempting to assassinate
the queen; and Pétion, who thus repaid her preference of him to La Fayette, which had placed
him in the mayoralty, whose duties he was now betraying. Some, too, bore a part in the foul
conspiracy as partisans of the Duc d'Orléans, who were generally understood to have instructions
to be lavish of their master's gold, the vile prince hoping that the result of the outbreak
would be the assassination of his cousin, and his own elevation to the vacant throne. In their
speeches they gave Louis the name of Monsieur Veto, in allusion to the still legal exercise
of his prerogative, by which he had sought to protect the priests; while the queen was called
Madame Veto, though in fact she had finally joined Dumouriez in urging her husband to give
his royal assent to the decree against them, not, as thinking it on any pretense justifiable,
but as believing, with the general, in the impossibility of maintaining its rejection. Yet
nothing could more completely prove the absolute innocence and unimpeachable good faith of
both king and queen than the act of his enemies in giving them this nickname; so clear an evidence
was it that they could allege nothing more odious against them than the possession by Louis,
in a most modified degree, of a prerogative which, without any modification at all, has in
every country been at all times regarded as indispensable to, and inseparable from, royalty;
and the exercise of it for the defense of a body of men of whom none could deny the entire
harmlessness.

On the night of the 19th the appointed leaders of the different bands into which the insurgents
were to be divided separated; the watch-word, "Destruction to the palace," was given out; and
all Paris waited in anxious terror for the events of the morrow. Louis was as well aware as
any of the citizens of the intended attack, and prepared for it as for death. On the afternoon
of the 19th he wrote to his confessor to desire him to come to him at once. "He had never,"
he said, "had such need of his consolations. He had done with this world, and his thoughts
were now fixed on Heaven alone. Great calamities were announced for the morrow; but he felt
that he had courage to meet them." And after the holy man had left him, as he gazed on the
setting sun he once more gave utterance to his forebodings. "Who can tell," said he, "whether
it be not the last that I shall ever see?" The Royalists felt his danger almost as keenly as
himself, but were powerless to prevent it by any means of their own. The Duke de Liancourt,
who had some title to be listened to by the Revolutionary party, since no one had been more
zealous in promoting the most violent measures of the first Assembly, pressed earnestly on
Pétion that his duty as mayor bound him to call out the National Guards, and so prevent the
intended outbreak, but was answered by sarcasms and insults; while Vergniaud, from the tribune
of the Assembly itself, dared to deride all who apprehended danger.

On the morning of the 20th, daylight had scarcely dawned when twenty thousand men, the greater
part of whom were armed with some weapon or other--muskets, pikes, hatchets, crowbars, and
even spits from the cook-shops forming part of their equipment--assembled on the place where
the Bastile had stood. Santerre was already there on horseback as their appointed leader; and,
when all were collected and marshaled in three divisions, they began their march. One division
had for its chief the Marquis de St. Huruge, an intimate friend and adherent of the Duc d'Orléans;
at the head of another, a woman of notorious infamy, known as La Belle Liégeoise, clad in male
attire, rode astride upon a cannon; while, as it advanced, the crowd was every moment swelled
by vast bodies of recruits, among whom were numbers of women, whose imprecations in ferocity
and foulness surpassed even the foulest threats of the men.

The ostensible object of the procession was to present petitions to the king and the Assembly
on the dismissal of Roland and his colleagues from the administration, and on the refusal of
the royal assent to the decree against the priests. The real design of those who had organized
it was more truthfully shown by the banners and emblems borne aloft in the ranks. "Beware the
Lamp,[1]" was the inscription on one. "Death to Veto and his wife," was read upon another.
A gang of butchers carried a calf's heart on the point of a pike, with "The Heart of an Aristocrat"
for a motto. A band of crossing-sweepers, or of men who professed to be such, though the fineness
of their linen was inconsistent with the rags which were their outward garments, had for their
standard a pair of ragged breeches, with the inscription, "Tremble, tyrants; here are the Sans-culottes."
One gang of ruffians carried a model of a guillotine. Another bore aloft a miniature gallows
with an effigy of the queen herself hanging from it. So great was the crowd that it was nearly
three in the afternoon before the head of it reached the Assembly, where its approach had raised
a debate on the propriety of receiving any petition at all which was to be presented in so
menacing a guise; M. Roederer, the procurator-syndic, or chief legal officer of the department
of Paris, recommending its rejection, on the ground that such a procession was illegal, not
only because of its avowed object of forcing its way to the king, but also because it was likely
to lead into acts of violence even if it had not premeditated them.

His arguments were earnestly supported by the constitutionalists, and opposed and ridiculed
by Vergniaud. But before the discussion was over, the rioters, who had now reached the hall,
took the decision into their own hands, forced open the door, and put forward a spokesman to
read what they called a petition, but which was in truth a sanguinary denunciation of those
whom it proclaimed the enemies of the nation, and of whom it demanded that "the land should
be purged." Insolent and ferocious as it was, it, however, coincided with the feelings of the
Girondins, who were now the masters of the Assembly. One orator carried a motion that the petitioners
should receive what were called the honors of the Assembly; or, in other words, should be allowed
to enter the hall with their arms and defile before them. They poured in with exulting uproar.
Songs, half blood-thirsty and half obscene, gestures indicative some of murder, some of debauchery,
cries of "Vive la nation!" interspersed with inarticulate yells, were the sounds, the guillotine
and the queen upon the gallows were the sights, which were thought in character with the legislature
of a people which still claimed to be regarded as the pattern of civilization by all Europe.
Evening approached before the last of the rabble had passed through the hall; and by that time
the leading ranks were in front of the Tuileries.

There were but scanty means of resisting them. A few companies of the National Guard formed
the whole protection of the palace; and with them the agents of Orleans and the Girondins had
been briskly tampering all the morning. Many had been seduced. A few remained firm in their
loyalty; but those on whom the royal family had the best reason to rely were a band of gentlemen,
with the veteran Marshal de Noailles at their head, who had repaired to the Tuileries in the
morning to furnish to their sovereign such defense as could be found in their loyal and devoted
gallantry. Some of them besides the old marshal, the Count d'Hervilly, who had commanded the
cavalry of the Constitutional Guard, and M. d'Acloque, an officer of the National Guard, brought
military experience to aid their valor, and made such arrangements as the time and character
of the building rendered practicable to keep the rioters at bay. But the utmost bravery of
such a handful of men, for they were no more, and even the more solid resistance of iron gates
and barriers, were unavailing against the thousands that assailed them. Exasperated at finding
the gates closed against them, the rioters began to beat upon them with sledge-hammers. Presently
they were joined by Sergent and Panis, two of the municipal magistrates, who ordered the sentinels
to open the gates to the sovereign people. The sentinels fled; the gates were opened or broken
down; the mob seized one of the cannons which stood in the Place du Carrousel, carried it up
the stairs of the palace, and planted it against the door of the royal apartments; and, while
they shouted out a demand that the king should show himself, they began to batter the door
as before they had battered the gates, and threatened, if it should not yield to their hatchets,
to blow it down with cannon-shot.

Fear of personal danger was not one of the king's weaknesses. The hatchets beat down the outer
door, and, as it fell, he came forth from the room behind, and with unruffled countenance accosted
the ruffians who were pouring through it. His sister, the Princess Elizabeth, was at his side.
He had charged those around him to keep the queen back; and she, knowing how special an object
of the popular hatred and fury she was, with a fortitude beyond that which defies death, remained
out of sight lest she should add to his danger. For a moment the mob, respecting, in spite
of themselves, the calm heroism with which they were confronted, paused in their onset; but
those in front were pushed on by those behind, and pikes were leveled and blows were aimed
at both the king and the princess, whom they mistook for the queen. At first there were but
one or two attendants at the king's side, but they were faithful and brave men. One struck
down a ruffian who was lifting his weapon to aim a blow at Louis himself. A pike was even leveled
at his sister, when her equerry, M. Bousquet, too far off to bring her the aid of his right
hand, called out, "Spare the princess." Delicate as were her frame and features, Elizabeth
was worthy of her blood, and as dauntless as the rest. She turned to her preserver almost reproachfully:
"Why did you undeceive him? it might have saved the queen." But after a few seconds, Acloque
with some grenadiers of the National Guard on whom he could still rely, hastened up by a back
staircase to defend his sovereign; and, with the aid of some of the gentlemen who had come
with the Marshal de Noailles, drew the king back into a recess formed by a window; and raised
a rampart of benches in front of him, and one still more trustworthy of their own bodies. "If dey
was ter make a mistake about de ballots, an's'posen'stead of deir bein'hisn dey happens to be yourn, den
if dey're cast fer you dey wont count fer him, will dey?"

Mr. Bockerheisen turned his head around and stared at The Croak in an evidently painful effort
to grasp the idea.

"If Boozy t'inks dey're his wotes--"

"Yah," said Bockerheisen reflectively.

"And pays all de heavy'spences of uniforms an'beer--"

"Yah," said Bockerheisen, with an affable smile.

"But w'en dey comes to wote--"

"Yah," said Bockerheisen, opening his eyes.

"Deir ballots don't hev his tickets in'em--"

"Yah!" said Bockerheisen quickly.

"But has yourn instead--"

"Yah-ah!" said Bockerheisen, rubbing his hands.

"Den an'in dat case who does dey count fer?"

Mr. Bockerheisen leaned his head upon his hand, which was supported by the bar against which they
were standing, slowly closed one eye, and murmured, "Yah-ah-ah."

"I t'ought you'd see de p'int w'en I got it out right," said The
Croak.

"How you do somedings like dot?"

"Dat aint fer me to say," The Croak diffidently remarked. "But dey do tell me dat dat McCafferty
has a grudge agin Boozy, an if you wants me ter ask him ter drop in yere an hev a talk wid ye,
I'll do it."

Mr. Bockerheisen did not fail to express the satisfaction he would have in seeing Mr. McCafferty,
and Mr. McCafferty did not fail to give him that happiness. The association sprang quickly into being,
and its rolls soon showed a membership of nearly 700 voters. Two copies of the rolls were taken,
one for submission to Alderman Boozy and one to Mr. Bockerheisen. This was in the nature of tangible
evidence that the association was in actual existence. In further proof of this important fact,
the association with banners representing it to be the Michael J. Boozy Campaign Club marched
past the saloon of Mr. Bockerheisen every other night, and the next night, avoiding Mr. Bockerheisen's,
it was led in gorgeous array past the saloon of Colonel Boozy, labeled the Karl Augustus Bockerheisen
Club. As Mr. Bockerheisen looked out and saw Colonel Boozy's association, and realized that
whereas Boozy was planting and McCafferty was watering, yet he was to gather the increase, a High
German smile would come upon his poetic countenance, and he would bite his finger-nails rapturously.
And, on the other hand, as Colonel Boozy heard the drums and fifes of the Bockerheisen Club, and saw
its transparency glowing in the street, he would summon all his friends to the bar to take a
drink with him. It is said that even before election day, however, the relations between Dennie
and the Colonel on the one hand, and between The Croak and Bockerheisen, on the other, became
painfully strained. It is said that Boozy was compelled to mortgage two of his houses to support
Bockerheisen's club, and that Bockerheisen's wife had to borrow nearly$ 10,000 from her brother,
a rich brewer, before Bockerheisen's wild anxiety to pay the expenses of Boozy's club was satisfied.
Dennie acknowledged to the Colonel a couple of days before the election that he had found
The Croak a hard man to deal with, and that it had been vastly more expensive to make the arrangement
than he had supposed it would be. The Croak's manner, as I have said, was always subdued, if
not actually sad, and in the presence of Bockerheisen, as the election drew near, he seemed
to be so utterly woe-begone and discouraged that the German told his wife he hadn't the heart
to quarrel with him about having let McCafferty cost so much money. Besides, as the Colonel
remarked to Mrs. Boozy on the night before election, when she told him he had let that bad man,
McCafferty, ruin him entirely, and as Bockerheisen said to Mrs. Bockerheisen
when she warned him that that ugly-looking Croak would be calling
for her watch and weddingring next-- as they both remarked, "What is
the difference if I get the votes of the association?

Business will be good in the Board of Aldermen next year, and I can
make it up."

Who did get the votes of the association I'm sure I can't say. All I know is that the Republican
candidate was elected, and a Central Office detective who haunts the Forty-second Street depot
reported at Headquarters on Election Day night that he had seen Dennie McCafferty, wearing evening
dress and a single glass in his left eye, and Tozie Monks, The Croak, dressed as Dennie's valet,
board the six o'clock train for Chicago and the West.

X. MR. MADDLEDOCK.

Mr. Maddledock did not like to wait, and, least of all, for dinner.

Wobbles knew that, and when he heard the soft gong of the clock in the lower hall beat seven times,
and reflected that while four guests had been bidden to dinner only three had yet come, Wobbles
was agitated. Mrs. Throcton, Mr. Maddledock's sister, and Miss Annie Throcton had arrived
and were just coming downstairs from the dressing-room. Mr. Linden was in the parlor with Miss
Maddledock, both looking as if all they asked was to be let alone. Mr. Maddledock was in the
library walking up and down in a way that Wobbles could but look upon as ominous. Again, and
for the fifth time in two minutes, Wobbles made a careful calculation upon his fingers, but
to save his unhappy soul he could not bring five persons to tally with six chairs. And in the mean
while, Mr. Maddledock's step in the library grew sharper in its sound and quicker in its motion. There
was nothing vulgar about Mr. Maddledock.

His tall, erect figure, his gray eyes, his clearly cut, correct features,
his low voice, his utter want of passion, and his quiet, resolute
habit of bending everything and everybody as it suited him to bend
them, told upon people differently.

Some said he was handsome and courtly, others insisted that he was sinister-looking and cruel. Which
were right I shall not undertake to say. Whether it was a lion or a snake in him that fascinated,
it is certainly true that he impressed every one who knew him. In some respects his influence was very
singular. He seemed to throw out a strange devitalizing force that acted as well upon inanimate
as upon animate things. The new buffet had not been in the dining-room six months before it looked
as ancient as the Louis XIV. pier-glass in the upper hall. This subtle influence of Mr. Maddledock had
wrought a curious effect upon the whole house. It oxydized the frescoes on the walls. It subdued
the varied shades of color that streamed in from the stained-glass windows. It gave a deeper richness
to the velvet carpets and mellowed the lace curtains that hung from the parlor casements into a creamy
tint. Mr. Maddledock's figure was faultless.

From head to heels he was adjusted with mathematical nicety. Every organ in his
shapely body did its work silently, easily, accurately.

Silver-gray hair covered his head, falling gracefully away from a parting in the middle of it.
It never seemed to grow long, and yet it never looked as if it had
been cut.

Mr. Maddledock's eyes were his most striking feature. Absolutely unaffected by either glare
or shadow, neither dilating nor contracting, they remained ever clear, large, gray, and cold.
No mark or line in his face indicated care or any of the burdens that usually depress and trouble
men. If such things were felt in his experience their force was spent long before they had contrived
to mar his unruffled countenance. Though the house had tumbled before his eyes, by not a single vibration
would his complacent voice have been intensified. He never suffered his feelings to escape his
control.

Occasionally, to be sure, he might curl his lip, or lift his eyebrows, or depress the corners of
his mouth. When deeply moved he might go so far as to diffuse a nipping frost around him, but no
angry words ever fell from his lips. Five, seven, ten, fifteen, twenty minutes had passed since
the hall clock had sounded the hour and Wobbles's temperature had
risen to the degree which borders on apoplexy.

What might have happened is dreadful to conjecture had not Dinks, the housekeeper, come to his
relief with the sagacious counsel that he wait no longer, but boldly inform Miss Emily that dinner
was served.

Wobbles was just on the point of acting upon this advice when the library call rang, and he hurried
to respond. "You said this note was left here by a tall man, didn't
you, Wobbles?" said Mr. Maddledock.

"Yezzur," said Wobbles. "And he said he would call for an answer?"
"Yezzur, at seven be the clock, zur." "But it's past seven, Wobbles?"
"Yezzur, most'arf an howr, most'arf." "That will do, Wobbles-- and
yet, stay.

Did you ask his name?" "Yezzur. Hi did, zur, and'e says, sezee,'Chops,'sezee,'you need more salt,'sezee,'go
back to the gridiron,'sezee."

"Well, that's curious," said Mr. Maddledock; "was he sober?" "'E'med
be in cups, zur, but they be quiet uns."

"Yes-- well,
if he calls during dinner, Wobbles, you may show him into the office
and stay with him, Wobbles, until I come."

"Yezzur, hexackly, zur, I see, zur.

Dinner is served, zur, but Mr. Torbert be not come.

Shall I tell Miss Emily?"

"Yes, to be sure. How absurd of Torbert!

Why, it's quite late.

When I go into the parlor, which will be in another minute, Wobbles you may announce dinner." Wobbles
bowed himself away and Mr. Maddledock sat himself down.

He picked up the note to which he had just referred, and read it
through carefully.

Then he rubbed his eyeglass, stroked his nose reflectively, crumpled
the note in his hand, and tossed it into the grate fire before him.

He rose and stood watching it burn. "Only two things are possible," he said, quietly. "I must
shoot him or pay him, and I don't feel entirely certain which I'd
better do."

Then he walked into the parlor. "You're almost as bad as Mr. Torbert, father," said Miss Maddledock.
"I've been waiting long enough for you, and now we'll all go to dinner."

"Torbert's late, is he?" said Mr. Maddledock, as if this were the first he had heard of it, bowing
gravely to the others. "How's that, Linden?"

"I'm sure I can't account for it at all, sir," answered the young man. "We took breakfast together,
and at that hour he was in full possession of his faculties. His watch was doing its accustomed duty,
and there was no sign of any such condition in or about him as would suggest the possibility of preposterous
behavior like this." "Perhaps his business keeps him," said Miss Maddledock amiably. "Ho, ho,"
chuckled Mrs. Throcton, in her jolly way, "if he depended on that
to keep him, he'd be ill kept, indeed."

"Why, mamma," said Miss Throcton, reprovingly, "how can you?"

"And why not, Nancy, my child? Bless me! how perfectly absurd to think of Torbert, all jewels
and bangs, with a business.

I'll leave it to Mr. Linden if he ever earned a penny in his life." "But that is not the test of having
a business, dear Mrs. Throcton," Linden replied.

"I know some wonderfully busy men, whose earnings wouldn't keep a pug dog." "Now more than likely something's
the matter with his clothes," remarked plump Miss Nancy, in tones of deep sympathy. "I've often been
late because I couldn't get into mine." "While we speculate the dinner cools," said Miss Maddledock
suggestively.

"Father, will you give your arm to Mrs. Throcton?

Mr. Linden, there stands Miss Nancy. I will go alone and mourn for Mr. Torbert." "Now, this is
really too bad," said Linden, when they were seated at the table.

"It is a form of social misconduct which goes right at the bottom
of Torbert's character.

When he comes I'll tell him the story of a friend of mine who never was late for dinner in his
life, and who consequently--" "Died!" interrupted Mrs. Throcton.
"I know he did.

Any
man who never was late for dinner in his life must in the nature of things have had a short
time to live." "Come to think of it," said Linden, "he did die, and
I never suspected why before.

He was the last man in the world whom I should have thought the dread angel would want." "Oh,
you never can tell," Mrs. Throcton cheerily declared. "It's all luck,
pure luck.

This man died because it isn't in fate for any man who is never late to dinner to live long,
but still living is all luck.

If the'dread angel,'as you call him, happens to look your way and
fancies you, why, off you go-- plunk! like a frog in the pond."

Mrs. Throcton had scarcely concluded this genial doctrine before the belated guest, all bows,
smiles, and graceful attitudes, was rendering homage to Miss Maddledock. "Sir!" she said, "you
will kindly observe that my aspect is severe. You are indicted for--
for-- what is he indicted for, Mr. Linden?"

Linden
was a lawyer, and he answered promptly: "For violating Section One of the Code of Prandial Procedure,
which defines tardiness at dinner as a felony punishable by banishment
from all social festivities at the house where offense is given, for
a period of not less than two nor more than five years."

"You hear the-- the-- what are you, Mr. Linden-- something horrid, aren't you?" "He is, or his
looks belie him," interjaculated Torbert.

"The prosecutor, your Honor," replied Linden, "prepared, with regard
to this prisoner, to be as horrid as I look." "May it please the Court,"
began Torbert, with mock gravity, "I find myself the victim of an
unfortunate situation, and not a conscious and willing offender against
the Prandial Code. Justice is all I ask. More I have no need for.

Less
I am confident your Honor never fails to render." "Now, Mr. Prosecutor,
where's my judicial temperament gone that you compliment me upon so often?"
demanded Miss Maddledock, turning sharply to the lawyer.

"I had it a moment ago, together with a frown;
where have they gone?" "They will return directly I call your Honor's
attention to the flagrant nature of the prisoner's crime," said Linden--
"a crime so utterly atrocious--"

"True, you do well to remind me. Justice you called
for, sir. Very well. Justice you shall have. Go on!" "Your Honor is
most gracious. That part of the indictment which charges me with having
an engagement to dine with your Honor at seven P. M. is admitted.
I left my house in plenty of time, but--"

Mrs. Throcton
(sotto voce).-- Does the prisoner live in Harlem? Miss Nancy.-- Or
in Hoboken?

The
Court (with great dignity)-- If the prisoner is going to put his
trust in the saving grace of the elevated cars or the tardy ferry,
the Court would prefer not to delay its consommé listening to such
trivial excuses.

The Court's soup
is growing cold. A roar of laughter greeted this observation, and Mr.
Linden remarked, "The prosecutor feels it his duty to suggest that
the prisoner enter a plea of guilty, and throw himself at once upon
the Court's mercy."

"The distinguished assistants to the prosecutor,"
said Torbert, turning with an extravagant bow toward Mrs. Throcton and Miss
Nancy, "think to throw contempt upon the defense by associating it
with Harlem and Hoboken. Let them beware. Let them not tempt me to
extremities.

There are insults which even
my forbearing spirit will not meekly endure. Had they said Hackensack--"
The Court-- Well, what then? "Then, your Honor, I should have objected;
and had your Honor ruled against me, I should have been reluctantly
compelled to demand an exception!

But let
me come at once to my defense. My offense, if offense it is, was caused
by the necessity which was imposed upon me of unharnessing a man."
"What!"

"Of unharnessing a man, please your Honor! A man coming
north and a horse going east endeavored to cross the street at a
given point, at one and the same moment.

It proved an
impossibility, and they-- er-- intersected." "Dreadful!" cried Miss
Maddledock. "It so impressed me, else I had not dared to risk your Honor's
displeasure by pausing to unharness the man."

Mrs. Throcton, merry soul that she
usually was, had grown quite serious when Torbert spoke of a collision
and an accident.

Her voice was earnest as she said, "Now, Mr. Torbert, stop your jesting
right away and tell us what you mean."

"It was as
I have said, and all done in a second," Torbert replied. "You never
can tell just how a thing like that is done, you know. The horse was
a runaway. It must have come some distance, for it had broken away from the
vehicle to which it had been attached, and its torn harness was held
upon it by only one or two feeble straps.

The man was a tall, queer-looking
fellow, rather seedily dressed, and possibly not quite sober. He had
been walking just ahead of me for several blocks. I can't say what
it was about him that first attracted my attention.

Possibly it was a peculiarity
in his walk." Mr. Maddledock, who had not spoken a word since they
sat down to dinner, now glanced up, and said, in an inquiring tone,
"A peculiarity in his walk?" "Yes," answered Torbert, dropping into his
seat and picking up his oyster fork, "and I am somewhat at a loss
to describe it. I don't think he was lame, or wooden-legged, or afflicted
with any hip trouble.

As
I recall the step now, it seems to me that it was merely a habit.

I think he took a long and then a short step,
long and short, long and short." "Um," said Mr. Maddledock. "Just as
he approached the crossing where the accident occurred he turned his head,
and I don't think I ever saw a more Mephistophelean countenance. The
only thing that broke the dark-angel shape of his face was his nose,
and that, with slight alterations, would have made an excellent shepherd's
crook."

Mr. Maddledock took up his wine-glass and drained it at a single
quaff.

"A shepherd's crook,"
he repeated; "an odd nose, truly." "He was an odd-looking fellow all
over," Torbert continued, "odd and bad. I never was more disagreeably
impressed with a human face in my life.

Well, when
we reached the corner we both heard the clatter of the horse's hoofs
on the cobbles and looked up.

He was coming on at a fearful rate, and people
were shouting at him in a way that must have increased his frenzy.

Quite
a crowd had collected, and this fellow and I were jostled forward
upon the crossing. I shouted to the crowd not to push us, and pressed back
with all my strength. He was just ahead of me. He had two means of escape--
to hold back as I had done, or to dash forward.

He hesitated, and that second's pause was fatal.

He now repeated by word of mouth the statements and arguments which he had previously advanced
in writing, with the addition of a denunciation of the recent insurrection and its authors,
whom, he insisted, the Assembly was bound instantly to prosecute. His speech was not ill received;
for the Constitutionalists, who knew what he designed to say, had mustered in full force, and
had packed the galleries beforehand with hired clappers; and many even of the Deputies who
did not belong to that party cheered him, so obvious to all but the most desperate was the
danger to the whole State, if Santerre and his brigands should be allowed to become its masters.
But they cared little for a barren indignation which had no more effectual weapon than reproaches.
He had said enough to exasperate, but had not done enough to intimidate; while those whom he
denounced had greater boldness and presence of mind than he, and had the forces on which they
relied for support at hand and available. They instantly turned the latter on himself, and
in their turn denounced him for having left his army without leave. He was frightened, or at
least perplexed, by such a charge. He made no reply, but seemed like one stupefied; and it
was only through the eloquence of one of his friends, M. Ramond, that he was saved from the
impeachment with which Guadet and Vergniaud openly threatened him for quitting the army without
leave.

Ramond's oratory succeeded in carrying through the Assembly a motion in his favor, and several
companies of the National Guard and a vast multitude of the citizens showed their sympathy
with his views by escorting him with acclamations to his hotel. But neither their evident inclination
to support him, nor even the danger with which he himself had been threatened, could give him
resolution and firmness in action. For a moment he made a demonstration as if he were prepared
to secure the success of his designs by force. He proposed that the king should the next morning
review Acloque's companies of the National Guard, after which he himself would harangue them
on their duty to the king and Constitution. But the Girondins persuaded Pétion to exert his
authority, as mayor, to prohibit the review. La Fayette was weak enough to submit to the prohibition;
and, quickened, it is said, by intelligence that Pétion was preparing to arrest him, the next
day retired in haste from Paris and rejoined the army.

He had done the king nothing but harm. He had shown to all the world that though the Royalists
and Constitutionalists might still be numerically the stronger party, for all purposes of action
they were by far the weaker. He had encouraged those whom he had intended to daunt, and strengthened
those whom he had hoped to crush; and they, in consequence, proceeded in their treasons with
greater boldness and openness than ever. Marie Antoinette, as we have seen, had expressed her
belief that they designed to assassinate Louis, and she now employed herself, as she had done
once before, in quilting him a waistcoat of thickness sufficient to resist a dagger or a bullet;
though so incessant was the watch which was set on all their movements that it was with the
greatest difficulty that she could find an opportunity of trying it on him. But it was not
the king, but she herself, who was the victim whom the traitors proposed to take off in such
a manner; and in the second week of July a man was detected at the foot of the staircase leading
to her apartments, disguised as a grenadier, and sufficiently equipped with murderous weapons. Just
now, Mr. Gallivant was in very poor circumstances-- a condition of things all the more hardly
felt because it succeeded, and succeeded suddenly, upon a period of bewildering prosperity.
Early in the year 1888 it was observed that Mr. Gallivant's dark
red mustaches were curling away at the ends with a lightness and vivacity
that they only displayed when things were going well.

The quality of the curl in the ends of his mustaches invariably indicated to his friends the
state of the market. They could tell exactly whether stocks were up or down and how much so. The
sensitive rhododendron is not more surely responsive to the temperature of its environment than
was the curl in Mr. Gallivant's mustaches to the tale of the ticker.

In no other way, mark you, did he reveal his interest in the Street and its doings. By not a
single quaver was the cheeriness of his snatchy, racy, merry voice affected. By not the fraction of
an inch nor a second was his gay little trot altered. But when the ends of his mustache stood
out straight, his friends, no matter how slight was their acquaintance with financial matters,
knew they were safe in concluding that the country was going to the dogs, while, on the other hand,
when those same mustaches finished off in a sprightly little twist, the fact that we were living
under a wise and beneficent dispensation was too clear for argument.

Early in 1888, as I said before, Mr. Gallivant's mustaches began to curl. They became elastic.
They twisted themselves this way and that in graceful good-humor. They twined themselves lovingly
about his nose and danced in constant ecstasy. Mr. Gallivant's office in the Equitable Building
saw less and less of him. He left his lodgings in Harlem and took a suite of large and beautiful
apartments in a fashionable hotel. Every afternoon he drove a pair
of superb black horses over the Boulevard and through the Park.

All his friends were happy. They asked and it was given them. He lavished diamond buttons and
scarf-pins among them as if he were a prince and they were pugilists. He got up a party and
made a palace-car excursion to the Yellowstone Park. He purchased a stock-farm in California. He
hired a steam yacht and cruised in the Baltic. From the middle of March until the end of September
he used the world as if it were his.

But then, a change came o'er the spirit of his red mustaches. They ceased to sport about his nose.
They were distinctly less playful than they had been, and by degrees they became positively
stiff. In the mean time, Mr. Gallivant had returned to his law office. He had also gone back
to live in Harlem, and one night last December he shut himself in his room-- a hall bed-chamber
on the third floor, rear-- sat himself upon the only chair at hand, stretched his legs in front
of him, thrust his hands in his pockets, and murmured: "I feel curiously
like writing an essay on the'Vanity of Human Wishes'!"

Let me see, let me see, "he continued in a ruminating tone," what's
to be done?

"He ran his hands through his pockets and produced a handful of change.

Inspired by this success he rose and went to the closet and continued his search through a choice
collection of coats, waistcoats, and trowsers that hung upon its hooks." Nine dollars and seventy-six
cents! "he said, when he had counted the proceeds of his investigation." Well, I've had a great variety
of ups and downs in my short but checkered career, but I never thought the sum total of my cash
assets would be expressed in nine dollars and seventy-six cents! After all, life is but an insubstantial
pageant, so I think I'll take a pony of brandy and go to bed. "The next day Mr. Gallivant was
at his office bright and early.

His face shone with its perennial radiance, but his mustache told
a cheerless tale.

Mr. Gallivant had a number of principles. That which led all the rest was his steadfast refusal to
borrow money. He sat down to the contemplation of ways and means, therefore, without the usual
recourse taken by impecunious gentlemen with a large circle of wealthy acquaintances to relieve
temporary embarrassments. He drew his check-book from his desk and made a careful calculation." There's the judgment
and costs in the Gauber case, "he said," the interest of Robbins's mortgage, the$ 3000 paid to
settle Riker vs. Buckmaster, and the money Hunt paid my client Frabsley. Deduct these from my balance
in bank, and I have left of my own money the munificent sum of$ 2.17. There's no way out of it--
I must draw on Thwicket! "It must be owned that in the privacy of his office this conclusion
brought something very like a frown upon Mr. Gallivant's brow."

It'll ruin me! "he said." It'll show Thwicket that I'm as dry as Mother Hubbard's pantry, and
when a man loses credit with his broker he might as well shut up shop. But, gad! there's no
other way. I must have that balance, positively must, can't wait an hour longer. I've got$ 380
with Thwicket--$ 380, all that remains of-- well never mind, there's no use grumbling over what's gone.
I had a royal good time while it lasted, so I'll just think of the
good time and not of what it took to get it. But that$ 380!

H'm, I'll step down and see Thwicket! "Mr. Gallivant slid into his overcoat, prinked up his scarlet
tie, and walked breezily into Wall Street.

He chanced to meet Thwicket on the street, and they greeted each other effusively." Where under
the sun have you been for the last month or so? "exclaimed the broker."
I haven't seen a thing of you.

"" Oh, I've been around, "answered Mr. Gallivant, with a general wave of the hand. Mr. Thwicket's face
assumed a reproachful look."

Oh, no, "said Gallivant, responsively," I haven't been doing business
with anybody else.

Fact is, old fellow, I think I've got a bit flustered.

I don't seem able to get the hang of the market. Gad, I've lost a whole fortune since September-- must
have lost every dollar of a hundred thousand. Now I can't go on like that forever, you know.
I give you my word of honor I couldn't stand another such loss. It would put me in a hole. "" Nonsense!
"said Thwicket;" come, walk down to the office and we'll talk it
over.

By the way, where are you living now? I dropped in at your hotel
and they said you'd given up your rooms and gone into the country.

Queer time o'year to go to the country? "" Um-- well, dunno'bout that. Found my rooms stuffy.
Like country, sleighing, skating, ice yachting, don't you know. Fine air, healthy. Think I'll
buy a place up the Hudson. Fact is, negotiating now. "" Really?

How's your stock farm? "" Oh, sold it long'go. Got tired of it. Can't play with one toy forever, you
know. How's the market? "" It looks to me a little queer to-day, "replied the broker." That's
it!

That's what I say.

That's the reason I haven't been in lately. Found I was getting rattled.

More I figured, further away I got from real conditions. ""

It's time to try again. "" H'm; not so sure. "" Luck must change. "" Think so? "" Oh, I'm certain.
"" How's Hollyoke Central selling? "" It closed yesterday at 86-3/ 4.

"" Good time to buy. ""

I doubt that, Mr. Gallivant.

It seems to be slowly going the wrong way for buying.

But you might sell to advantage.

"" There, now, that shows you.

I tell you I'm rattled.

You see, the very first thing I suggest you discourage.

Think I'd better hold off.

"They had now reached the broker's office, in which Mr. Gallivant was presently ensconced at ease."
You are right, "said Thwicket, handing out a case of cigars," in
saying that the market is queer.

Something very curious has got hold of it. As you know, I avoid giving advice to my customers,
and I'm not going to advise you; but if you will notice the state
of affairs with regard to Snapshot Consolidated, you will see something
that ought to make you open your eyes.

"" What is it? "" Didn't you read the market reports in this morning's
papers? ""

Haven't looked at a market report for three weeks. "" I guess that explains why you don't understand
the situation, then. Well, Snapshot Consolidated opened at 42. At about noon it began to mount,
and it rose peg by peg till it closed at 57-1/ 2. Now, what do you think of that? "" I think
it's a warning for discreet men like me to keep away from Snapshot.

I have
no overweening desire to monkey with Mr. Gould, Thwicket.

"Mr. Gallivant jingled the remnant of six or seven dollars in his
pocket and softly added," He has more money than I. ""

You're your own best judge, of course.

But if that stock opens this morning above the point at which it closed
last night, there's going to be more fun to-day in Wall Street than
we've had for many a year.

It looks to me like a rock-ribbed corner. "Mr. Juniper Gallivant bowed his head as if in deep
reflection.

As a matter of fact, he was fermenting with excitement. He looked at his watch. It was within fifteen
minutes of the time for the Exchange to open." A corner! "he softly exclaimed to himself." A
corner, ye gods! and my balance in the Chemical Bank is$ 2.17.

A corner, and I not in it! "Mr. Gallivant's fingers began to itch viciously, and the perspiration
broke out copiously under his thick red hair. By a great struggle he managed to suppress
all outward signs of his emotion, while he continued to commune with
his own mind."

It's no use, "he thought." I must give up all idea of laying in with a corner when I haven't got money
enough to set up a decent champagne supper. No, I must draw that$ 380, and the question is, how to
do it and keep my credit good. Ha! an idea strikes me!

"He turned quietly to the broker and said aloud:" Give me a pen,
Thwicket!

"He
took a blank check from his pocket-book-- a check on the Chemical Bank, wherein$ 2.17 reposed peacefully
to his credit." I don't think you have very much money of mine here, Thwicket? "he continued, as he
slowly wrote the date-line in the check." Don't think we have. Robert, what is Mr. Gallivant's balance?
"The clerk turned over his ledger and presently replied:" Mr. Gallivant has a credit of$ 382.22.
"" I don't think we'll bother with Snapshot Consolidated, Thwicket. Truth is, I'm afraid of it.
My wits haven't been working right here lately.

But I'll just give you a check for$ 20,000, and you can buy me a nice little block of Michigan
Border-- say a hundred shares, just to see how the cat jumps, you
know.

"Thwicket took the check, but with a troubled air." My dear Gallivant,
"he said," why do a thing like that?

I'm very glad to have another order from you, but I don't want to
see a valuable customer like you lose any more money.

Michigan Border was doing very well a month ago, but it is declining
now, and for good reasons.

Let's
take a flyer in Snapshot! "" Hand me that check! "said Mr. Gallivant in a most decisive tone
and with a profoundly irritated air." Hand it back, Thwicket! Hand it right over, and draw me a
check for my balance of$ 382.22. I'm going to cut the d-- d Gordian knot and get out of this! No use talking,
my head's all bemuddled.'F I was to go into the Street to-day I'd
lose my whole fortune.

Now, don't argue with me, old man, I'm out of sorts, and the best thing for me to do is to stop right
short till I get clear-headed again. Draw me that check. Let me have every penny I've got on your books. I'm
going up to my place in the country and spend a month reading Greek plays. If anything'll calm
me, that will. "The broker looked vastly disappointed, but smiled
consentingly.

He returned the$ 20,000 check, which Mr. Gallivant tore to pieces with a great show of nervousness
and irritation, and in another moment, possessed of his precious$ 382.22, he departed gloomily.
But a long and cheery smile, that reached nearly to the tips of his
mustache and almost sufficed to give them a faint curl, spread itself
over his face as he turned from Wall Street into Broadway.

He caressed the check with his fingers and softly observed," H'm, I flatter myself that was well
done. I have the money, and Thwicket has an abiding confidence in my wealth,-- but oh, ye gods! what
would I give to be able to put my fine Italian hand into that Snapshot corner! "Mr. Gallivant
returned to his office and endeavored to fasten his attention upon
the records of a title search prepared by his clerk, but he found
himself ever going over the figures, 57-1/ 2, 57-1/ 2, 57-1/ 2."

Heavens!
"he said presently," I can't stand this any longer. I must see the ticker. I must find out
how it opened to-day. Gad, I'll go crazy if I sit here all day mumbling'57-1/ 2!'"He started up and
had half put on his coat, when the office door was flung open and
Thwicket rushed in breathless."

Seventy-two, "he shouted wildly." Opened at sixty-five! Leaped right up to 68, then to 70, then
to 72. Now's your chance, old man. Say the word and say it quick. Never mind about the$ 20,000. We'll
settle up when the day is over, and every second you lose now will
cost you hundreds of dollars.

It's sure to go to 160. Don't keep me waiting-- say the word? "Mr. Gallivant jammed his hands
deep into his pockets to prevent their betraying his excitement,
and hemmed and hawed."

Do you really think it's worth while, Thwicket! "" Great guns, man! You make me-- "" Now, don't
be nervous, Thwicket. When I trust a man to spend my money for me I want him cool and calm. ""
But you're losing valuable time!

It's jumping up every minute. The Exchange has gone wild! Everybody's in a furor. You can make a
mint if you go right in. "" All right, drive ahead. But use judgment,
Thwicket.

Remember I don't want to invest more than$ 20,000, and you should preserve your equanim-- "But Thwicket
was gone, and when the door closed behind him Mr. Gallivant gave
a leap from the floor where he stood to the sofa eight feet away!

Then he leaped back. Then he picked up a pair of dumb-bells and swung them fiercely at the imminent
risk of his head and the furniture of the room. Then finally he drew from his desk a bottle of brandy
and took a long, strong pull." Ah, "he said, smacking his lips," now I'll get ready and go to the
street and watch the tumult.

"Disposing, as soon as he could, of the correspondence on his desk, he presently made his way to
Thwicket's office.

The broker was still at the Stock Exchange.

He grabbed at the tapes and looked for Snapshot.

There was nothing on them but Snapshot."

Snap. Col. 93, "" Snap. Col. 96-3/ 8, "" Snap.

Col. "-- even as he stood by the ticker and watched the machine roll out its stream of white paper--" Snap.
Col. 108! "Mr. Gallivant's eyes blurred.

He felt queer in his knees. The perspiration broke out fiercely all over his plump little body." Why the
mischief doesn't Thwicket come in?

"he murmured." Why don't he sell and get out of this? Ten, twenty, thirty-- great guns! I've made$
50,000 already! It can't go on like this much longer. It'll break in half an hour,'gad, I know it will--
I feel it in my bones! If Thwicket doesn't sell inside of thirty minutes I'm a goner, and what's worse,
he'll be a goner with me! What's this! 117! By the great horn spoon,
I must get hold of Thwicket!

Thwicket! Thwicket! My kingdom for Thwicket!

"Mr. Gallivant
dropped the tapes and rushed frantically into the street and across to the entrance of the Exchange.
He dispatched a messenger across the floor to find his broker, but who could find which in that tumultuous
mob? The Exchange floor was crowded with a crazy body of yelling men, their faces boiled into crimson,
their eyes glowing with a fierce fire, their hats banged out of shape, their coats in many cases
torn into shreds, jostling, tumbling, jumping, stretching all over
each other in riotous confusion.

Fat men were being squeezed into pancakes, little men were being covered out of sight, tall men
were being clambered upon as if their manifest destiny were to serve as poles, and every man of them,
big, short, thin, fat, lank, and heavy, was flourishing his arms in the air and howling at the top
of his voice! Mr. Gallivant's messenger returned in a few moments with the report that Mr. Thwicket
could not be found. Quivering with excitement, Mr. Gallivant started forth in further search.
At the door of the Exchange he met his office-boy, who told him the broker was searching for him high
and low-- had been at the office and was now in the Savarin café.

Thither Mr. Gallivant rushed as fast as his legs could carry him, only to learn that Thwicket had
just gone out asking every man he met if he had seen Gallivant. The lawyer was in despair. He
glanced at the ticker--" Snap. Col. 134-1/ 2! "" Heavens! "he shrieked," will nobody seize that crazy
Thwicket and hold him till I come! "He ran at full speed to the broker's office. Thwicket
had left two minutes before, having learned that Gallivant was at the Savarin. He turned around again
and started once more to dash forth, when he saw the broker coming along in reckless haste.
In an instant Mr. Gallivant was all repose-- all serenity and ease. He dropped quietly into
a chair and picked up the morning paper. In rushed Thwicket, disheveled,
frantic, breathless." At last! "he cried." It's 136. It'll break in
another ten minutes!

Hadn't I better get from under? ""
Still excited, Thwicket? "answered Mr. Gallivant reproachfully." My dear
boy, I'm afraid you've not got a proper hold upon yourself. Yes,
probably you'd better unload. Perhaps now's as good a moment as any.
But be-- "Thwicket did not wait for the rest. He fled. When he returned
half an hour later his face was radiant, but his collar wilted." Sold!
"he cried," at 148, and busted at 152! "By a quick, spontaneous motion,
Mr. Gallivant's mustaches drew themselves in a loving curl around his
nose, but for the rest he was merely cheery-- gently cheery-- as
he always was."

You've done
very well, Thwicket, "he said commendingly." You've quite justified my
confidence.

You're a knowing fellow, and I'll-- er-- what's the proceeds?
"" A hundred and thirteen thousand-- rather a fair day's work. ""
That it is. Send around your check for the hundred, and let the thirteen
stay on account. By-by, I'll see you again in a day or two.

"Mr. Gallivant
walked out into the street upon his usual ramble." Strikes me, "he said
musingly," that I ought to do something handsome for Thwicket now--
I really ought. My profit is$ 113,000.

I doubt if his will reach even$
500. That doesn't look quite fair, seeing that he did the business
all on his own money.

The deuce
of it is, though, that it's demoralizing to make presents to your
brokers. After all, business is business! "VIII. TULITZ. With the circumstances
that brought Tulitz into trouble we have nothing to do.

Indeed,
whatever I may have known about them once I have long ago forgotten.
I seem to remember, but very vaguely, that he stabbed somebody, though,
at the same time, I find in my memory an impression that he forged
somebody's name.

This I distinctly recall, that the
amount of bail in which he was held was$ 5000-- a circumstance strongly
confirmatory of the notion that his assault was upon life and not
upon property.

In this excellent country, where property rights are guarded
with great zeal and care, and the surplus population is large, we charge
more for the liberty of forgers than of murderers.

Had Tulitz committed forgery, his bail bond
would scarcely have been less than$ 10,000.

Since, beyond all question, it was only$ 5000, I think
I must be right in the idea that he stabbed a man. It was in default
of that sum,$ 5000, that Tulitz, commonly called the Baron Tulitz,
alias d'Ercevenne, commonly called the Marquis d'Ercevenne, was committed
to the Tombs Prison to await the action of the Grand Jury.

At this time Tulitz-- I call him Tulitz without intending
any partiality for that name over the alias of d'Ercevenne, but merely
because Tulitz is a shorter word to write. I doubt if he had any
preference between them himself, except in the way of business. He was
just as likely, other things being equal, to present his card bearing
the words" M. le Marquis d'Ercevenne, "as his other card with the
words upon it" Freiherr von Tulitz.

"It has been remarked frequently that when he was the Baron his tone
and manner were exceedingly French, while when he was the Marquis
he spoke with a distinct German accent.

None of his acquaintances was able to account for this.

But as I
was saying, when Tulitz was sent to the Tombs he was in hard luck.
Formerly he had whipped the social trout-stream with great success.
As the Marquis he had composed some pretty odes, had led the German
at Mrs. de Folly's assembly, had driven to Hempstead with the Coaching
Club, and had been seen in Mrs. Castor's box at the opera. As the
Baron Tulitz, he had attended the races, and had been a frequenter of
all the great gaming resorts. The newspapers called him a" plunger,
"and a story went the rounds, in which he was represented to have wrecked
a pool-seller, who thereupon committed suicide. The Baron always denied
this story, which the Marquis often repeated. Indeed the Marquis was often
quoted to the Baron as an authority for it. But the tide had turned,
and now Tulitz was on his back with never a friend to help him."
Fi't'ousan'tollaire!

"he exclaimed, as
the Justice fixed his bail, blending both his French and his German
accent with strict impartiality," V'y you not make him den, dwenty, a huntret
t'ousandt! "A penniless prisoner in the Tombs is not an object of
much consideration, as Tulitz discovered to his profound disgust. For
two days he paced his cell with the restless, incessant tread of a
caged hyena. He disdainfully rejected the beef soup, the hunk of bread
and the black coffee served to him more or less frequently, and for
two days and nights he neither ate nor spoke. The Tombs cells are built
of thick stone, entered through a heavy iron door, that is provided
with a small grating. Tulitz's cell was on the second tier. Around
this tier extends a narrow gallery, along which the guard walks every
now and then, to see that all is as it should be. The guard annoyed
Tulitz. Every time he passed he would peer in and give a sort of
grunt.

This became painfully
exasperating to the Baron. Late in the afternoon of the second day
of his imprisonment, Tulitz, desperate with hunger, rage, and despair,
sat down upon the stool in his cell and glared viciously at the grating.
The guard's face was there." Ha! "cried Tulitz, in a shrill voice,"
keep avay! You tink I von tam mouse, and you ze cat, hey? You sit
outside ze cage viz your claw out and your tail stiff, ready to pounce
on ze mouse. Mon Dieu! How I hate! "The guard unlocked the iron door
and stepped inside." Don't make sech a racket over nawthin', "he said." De
warden says yer gotter do some eatin'. "" I kill ze warden if he keep
not his mechant chute! "" Wotcher goin'ter do? Starve? "" If I choose
starve, how you prevent him, hey?

How make you me eat? Voilà,
bête! "Tulitz drew himself to his full height, turned up his shirt-sleeves
and bared his great, muscular arm." Oh, all right, "said the guard."
It's all one to me. Starve if yer wanter. I'm agreeable. "" I vant
notting, rien, rien! "said Tulitz."

I vant to be leave alone.
"" Dat aint much. Mos'people wat comes here is more graspin'. Mos'people
wants ter git out. " It was only once or twice that he could even be brought to utter a
few words of acknowledgment to those who treated him with respect, of expostulation to those
who insulted and threatened him; and presently, pale, and, as it seemed, exhausted with that
slight effort, he returned to his apartments.

The queen was almost in despair. She told Madame de Campan that all was lost; that the king
had shown no energy; that such a review as that had done harm rather than good. All that could
now be done was for her to show herself not wanting to the occasion, nor to him. Her courage
rose with the imminence of the danger. Those who beheld her, as with dilating eyes and heightened
color she listened to the unceasing tumult, and, repressing every appearance of alarm, strove
with unabated energy to rouse her husband, and to fortify the good disposition of the loyal
friends around her, have described in terms of enthusiastic admiration the majestic dignity
of her demeanor at this trying moment. She had need of all her presence of mind; for even among
those who were most faithful to her dissensions were springing up. At the first alarm Marshal
de Mailly and his company of gallant nobles and gentlemen had hastened to her side; but the
National Guards were jealous of them. It seemed as if they expected to be allowed to remain
nearest to the royal person; and the soldiers disdained to yield the post of honor to men who
were not in uniform, and whom, as they were mostly in court dress, they even disliked as aristocrats.
They besought the queen to dismiss them. "Never!" she replied; and, trusting rather that the
example of their self-sacrificing devotion might stimulate those who thus complained, and full
of that royal magnanimity which feels that it confers honor on those whom it trusts, and that
it has a right to look for the loyalty of its servants even to the death, she added, "They
will serve with you, and share your dangers. They will fight with you in the van, in the rear,
where you will. They will show you how men can die for their king."

But meanwhile the insurgents were rapidly approaching the palace, and already the tramp of
the leading column might be heard. The tocsin had continued its ominous sound throughout the
night, and at six in the morning the main body of the insurgents, twenty thousand strong, and
well armed--for the new council had opened to them the stores of the arsenal-- began their
march under the command of Santerre. As they advanced they were joined by the Marseillese,
who had been quartered in a barrack near the Hall of the Cordeliers, and their numbers were
further swelled by thousands of the populace. Soon after eight they reached the Carrousel,
forced the gates, and pressed on to the royal court, the National Guard and Swiss falling back
before them to the entrance to the royal apartments, where the more confined space seemed to
afford a better prospect of making an effectual resistance.

But already the palace was deserted by those who were the intended objects of the attack. Roederer,
and one or two of the municipal magistrates, in whom the indignity with which the new commissioners
of the sections had treated them had excited a feeling of personal indignation, had been actively
endeavoring to rouse the National Guards to an energetic resistance; but they had wholly failed.
Those who listened to them most favorably would only promise to defend themselves if attacked,
while some of the artillery-men drew the charges from their guns and extinguished their matches.
Roederer, whom the strange vicissitudes of the crisis had for the moment rendered the king's
chief adviser, though there seems no reason to doubt his good faith, was not a man of that
fiery courage which hopes against hope, and can stimulate waverers by its example. He saw that
if the rioters should succeed in storming the palace, and should find the king and his family
there, the moment that made them masters of their persons would be the last of their lives
and of the monarchy. He returned into the palace to represent to Louis the utter hopelessness
of making any defense, and to recommend him, as his sole resource, to claim the protection
of the Assembly. The queen, who, to use her own words, would have preferred being nailed to
the walls of the palace to seeking a refuge which she deemed degrading, pointed to the soldiers,
and showed by her gestures that they were the only protectors whom it became them to look to.
Roederer assured her that they could not he relied on. She seemed unconvinced. He almost forgot
his respect in his earnestness. "If you refuse, madame, you will be guilty of the blood of
the king, of your two children; you will destroy yourself, and every soul within the palace."
While she was still hesitating between her feeling of shame and her anxiety for those dearest
to her, the king gave the word. "Let us go," said he. "Let us give this last proof of our devotion
to the Constitution." The princess spoke. "Could Roederer answer for the king's life?" He affirmed
that he would answer for it with his own. The queen repeated the question. "Madame," he replied,
"we will answer for dying at your side--that is all that we can promise." "Let us go," said
Louis, and moved toward the door. Even at the last moment, one officer, M. Boscari, commander
of a battalion of the National Guard, known as that of Les Filles St. Thomas, whose loyalty
no disaster had ever been able to shake, implored him to change his mind. His men, united to
the Swiss, would be able, he said, to cut a way for the royal family to the Rouen road; the
insurgents were all on the other side of the city, and nothing could resist him. But again,
as on all previous occasions, Louis rejected the brave advice. He pleaded the risk to which
he should expose those dearest to him, and led them to almost certain death in committing them
to the Assembly. Some of De Mailly's gentlemen gathered round him to accompany him; but such
an escort seemed to Roederer likely to provoke additional animosity, and at his entreaty Louis
trusted himself to a company of his faithful Swiss and to a detachment of the National Guard,
who formed themselves into an escort to conduct him to the Assembly, whose hall looked into
one side of the palace garden.

The minister for foreign affairs walked at his side. The queen leaned on the arm of M. Dubouchage,
the minister of marine, and with the other hand led the dauphin. The Princess Elizabeth and
the princess royal followed with another minister. And thus, with the Princess de Lamballe,
Madame de Tourzel, and one or two other ministers and attendants, the royal family left the
palace of their ancestors, which only one of them was ever to behold again. As they quit the
saloon, moved down the stairs, and crossed the garden, their every step was one toward a downfall
and a destruction which could never be retraced. Marie Antoinette felt it to be so, and, as
she reached the foot of the staircase, cast restless and anxious glances around, looking perhaps
even then for any prospect of succor or of effectual resistance which might present itself.
One of the Swiss misunderstood her, and with rude fidelity endeavored to encourage her. "Fear
nothing, madame," said he, "your majesty is surrounded by honest citizens." She laid her hand
on her heart. "I do fear nothing," and passed on without another word.

As they crossed the garden the king broke the silence. "How unusually early," he remarked,
"the leaves fall this year!" To those who heard him, the bareness which he remarked seemed
an omen of the fate which awaited himself, about to be stripped of his royal dignity; perhaps
even, like some superfluous crowder of the grove, to fall beneath the axe. The Assembly had
already been deliberating whether it should invite him to take refuge with them when they heard
that he was approaching. It was instantly voted that a deputation should be sent to meet him,
which, after a few words of respectful salutation, fell in behind. A vast crowd was collected
outside the doors of the hall. They hooted the king, and, still more bitterly, the queen, as
they advanced. "Down with Veto!" was the chief cry; but mingled with it were still more unmanly
insults, invoking more especially death on all the women. But the Guards kept the mob at a
distance, though when they reached the hall the Jacobins made an effort to deprive them of
that protection. They declared that it was illegal for soldiers to enter the hall, as indeed
it was; yet without them the princes must at the last moment have been exposed to all the fury
of the mob. At this critical moment Roederer showed both fidelity and presence of mind. He
implored the deputies to suspend the law which forbade the entrance of the troops, and, while
the Jacobins were reviling him and his proposal, he pretended to suppose that it had been agreed
to, and led forward a detachment of soldiers who cleared the way. Look there to find your bad
and ugly ideals! Give me your hand, Mr. Cinch. Thus, with our hands clasped, will our spiritual
understandings commune. Together we will pursue our investigations into the recesses of your
ethereal nature, and with the clean new broom of inspired reason,
will we sweep away the dusty cobwebs of bad ideals!

"Mr. Cinch heaved a huge sigh! But he shut his eyes vigorously, and received into his big hard fist
the Scientist's little white one, and murmured," All right, mum;
whip up lively.

"" Our bodies are but ghosts, "said the Scientist," combinations of symbols. The combinations change
as the soul that they symbolize changes. I look at your body and it tells me of your soul.
I see a soul full of doubt and darkness, and the doubt and darkness are symbolized in the curved
and ugly form of your legs. Brush away the doubt! Dispel the darkness! Aspire toward the Life
of the Spirit, and as your aspirations are tenacious they will draw your legs into the shape which,
like the spirit it typifies, will be all beauty. Does your soul respond,
Mr. Cinch?

"" Well, mum, I dunno. I'm trying hard, but-- ""

Ah, there is unbelief there. I see it-- a black mountain-cloud of unbelief. Faith, Mr. Cinch,
is the ethical law of gravitation. You already feel its influence. It draws you to the Spiritual
Center of Essence. Your soul still walks in the shadow, but toward the light. You are being drawn
away from the doubt. Don't you feel yourself being drawn, Mr. Cinch?

"" I b'lieve I do, mum; I really b'lieve I do. That left leg give
a kinder twitch just as you spoke.

""
Of course it did! Of course it did! You are in the sea of Infinite Thought, floating, floating like a chip
on the water. The evil ways of falsehood, doubt and unbelief are trying to beat you away from the
Current of Truth,-- but no! it shall not be! I will stand by to fight them back, and to urge
on those other waves that will bear you into the current. One is approaching now-- the Wave of Harmony.
It touches you gently, lifts you on its crystal bosom, and, ere it leaves to do the same duty to
another floating chip, it moves you many paces nearer to the current. And now, as you rest,
another comes. Lo, it is intercepted by the discordant ripples of suspicion, and a struggle ensues!
But, look! Oh, prythee look! From the white caps of conflict the wave, larger, purer than ever, emerges,
and comes on apace. It is the Wave of Joy! It moves quickly! It takes you upon its sparkling
crest! Whence the diamond lights of happiness flash! Merrily flash! It heaves you swiftly on! On!
On! Ah! Yes! Nearer! Nearer still! One more impulse and you are there! It lifts its glittering form
again! And NOW!-- Oh, Mr. Cinch! you are in the Current! the CURRENT! Do you not feel its swift influence?
The Current of Truth! Brightly, joyously, swiftly does this Spiritual Gulf Stream bear you toward
the Great Central Calm! Ah!-- ah!

"The Scientist was evidently in a great state of excitement. Her voice had risen to a keen soprano
key, and her eyes sparkled wildly. When she had finally succeeded in getting Mr. Cinch into
the Current, she fell back in her chair, quite exhausted.

Neither spoke for several minutes, and then Miss Beeks finally said:" Open your eyes, Mr. Cinch!
"The old man looked at her with evident curiosity." You talk beautiful, "he said, earnestly,"
and I really think I feel better!

"" Don't say'feel,'Mr. Cinch. Cultivate thought and not sensation. I know you are better and that
means, of course, that the supposititious curvature of your limbs, never real, is less apparent.
You must put yourself under my treatment from this moment. The advantage gained already must not
be lost. You must not go home, or to business, or out of this room until your mind is thoroughly
healed. You must not get out of the Current until you are safely
in the Calm Centre.

"***** It was the fourth day after her husband's strange disappearance,
and Mrs. Cinch was seated in the back parlor of her desolate house,
receiving spiritual consolation from an elderly clerical gentleman."

Oh, sir, "she was saying," he was such a good man, so gentle and easy to get along with. He had
no harsh words, no matter how much he had to bear. And I'm fearful it was a good deal, Mr. Groaner,
I'm fearful it was a good deal. "Mr. Groaner sighed with much feeling, and said she must not repine,
adding in a comforting way that the world was full of sorrow." Yes, "said Mrs. Cinch, as though
greatly consoled by that fact," I know it.

We all have our burdens and I s'pose we need'em. "" Indeed we do, Sister Cinch, "Mr. Groaner
replied," but for our burdens we should grow vain and worldly.

"This disastrous result being in Mrs. Cinch's case rendered less menacing through the supposed death
of her partner, the good man proceeded to show her the necessity
of" bearing up, "and of counting all things good, and of drawing from
these mournful visitations the valuable lesson that earthly affections
are empty and void.

Much had been accomplished toward reconciling her to the unhappy situation when a familiar click
was heard in the front door latch.

Mrs. Cinch started. The click was repeated and then the door was flung open, and a heavy footfall sounded
in the hallway." William! "cried Mrs. Cinch." It's William, Brother Groaner! Help me up! Help me
to run and meet him! William, my dear, good, sweet, bow-legged old William! O, Brother Groaner,
I shall go crazy with happiness!

Hear his old feet, stuck on them dear bow-legs of his, making a sound that I'd know'mong ten
thousand! Come along, Brother Groaner, come long.

"They got into the hall with as much speed as possible, and there,
coming toward them was Mr. Cinch, his round face lighted with a peaceful
smile.

He paused, and there was something in his manner and attitude that caused them to pause as well.
He brought his pudgy feet closely together and straightened his figure
to its loftiest possibility, as if to call attention to its perfect
beauty."

Maria, my dear, "he said, in deep, low tones," I float in the Calm Centre of Infinite Truth.
"A look of profound alarm came upon Mrs. Cinch's face, and she glanced at the Rev. Mr. Groaner.
He shook his head sadly.

Mr. Cinch observed the dubious looks and he hastened to dispel them." I am in harmony with the
Universal Mind, "he said." Look at them legs!

"They looked." Yes, William, "answered Mrs. Cinch, profoundly disturbed," I see them legs, and dear,
sweet, precious old legs they are, William, and if I ever said they wasn't, I told a story and
goodness knows I've suffered enough for it in the last three days and nights. I love them cunning
old legs, William, better'n all the rest of you put together, and I don't care where you're
floating nor what you're in harmony with, I only just know you're
back again with the same beautiful, chubby, round old legs you took
away, and I'm downright crying happy, and the rounder they gets the
more I'll love them!

"And, unable longer to restrain herself, the good old lady rushed upon
him and hugged him black and blue.

Mr. Cinch may still be floating in the Calm Centre of Infinite Truth, or he may not. He may still
be in harmony with the Universal Mind or he may not.

He hasn't mentioned lately.

But this is sure truth-- that wherever he floats, Mrs. Cinch is floating
with him, and whatever else he may be in harmony with he is certainly
in harmony with her.

He wobbles and toddles up and down just as he used to do, but never a word does he hear to the prejudice
of his legs. And whether they be as crooked as a ram's horn or as straight as a rifle-barrel, he can't
see them and she won't-- so what's the odds, anyhow? XIII. GRANDMOTHER CRUNCHER. Tony Scollop's great
point was enterprise. When he looked at anything it was always with the query running through
his mind, how can this be turned to account? The beauty of utility was the beauty which Tony's eyes
detected and which his heart valued. There may be a want of true
and pure sentiment in this way of considering the world and its contents,
but Tony's lot had been cast in a sphere where necessity encroaches
upon sentiment.

Bread was dear and babies cheap in the tenement where Tony was born, and his character was greatly
affected by this circumstance.

And yet Tony was not unmindful of the fact that sentiment is a powerful stimulant. As such, he prized
it. His acute perception disclosed to him that people would pay freely to have their sentiments
fed, and Tony was willing to do almost anything not specifically mentioned in the Criminal Code,
for pay. It had been early impressed upon his mind that the profitable sentiments of a great proportion
of mankind were reached through their curiosity. This lesson was first enforced upon Tony by a
Monkey. The monkey was a particularly clever knave. He was in the retinue consisting, besides himself,
of a woman, two babies, a hand-organ and a tin-cup, appertaining
to a dusky Neapolitan who infested the tenement district in which
Tony's boyhood was spent.

That monkey had on several occasions seduced a penny from Tony's
unwilling hand.

Thereby he had earned Tony's respect and had caused Tony's reflections
to dwell upon him.

That monkey had a large place in the circumstances which led Tony to go into the dime-museum business.
As a dime-museum manager, to which exalted station Tony finally arose and in which he was now engaged,
he was a remarkable success.

He seemed to have found just the field for his talents. They led him into a great variety of speculations,
but from one and all he emerged plethoric with dimes. His museum had
grown until it now occupied the three floors of one of the largest
buildings in the Bowery.

It was in the very height of his great career, when his enterprise was most conspicuous, his curiosities
most numerous, his patronage most extensive, and his self-appreciation
most complete and complacent, that he was called upon to face a singular
emergency.

A gentleman in Hoboken had boiled his mother-in-law. It is of no moment now why he had boiled
his mother-in-law, though at the time the consideration of this question had filled columns upon
columns of the daily newspapers. There had been a controversy between the gentleman and his
mother-in-law, prolonged and distracting, and the long and short of a very painful conjunction of
circumstances is that the gentleman had felt himself reduced to the necessity of doing something
serious to his mother-in-law, and, thus moved, he had boiled her.

It would have been wiser, doubtless, had he taken some other course,
though that is a matter of judgment into which I refrain from going.

The only fact needful to be mentioned here is that the event had taken up a vast amount of
space in the papers, which had printed large maps of the room wherein the boiling had occurred,
together with striking pictures of the gentleman, the mother-in-law, the kettle in which the boiling
had been done, the cat which usually slept in the kettle, and other important accessories of the
event.

Among
these was the gentleman's grand-mother, a venerable lady living in Wisconsin, who, upon being
informed that her grandson was in jail for boiling his mother-in-law, had come on to Hoboken
to comfort him. She was met at the depot by a considerable company of reporters, and by Mr.
Tony Scollop, who, with an enterprise all his own, provided a coach for her, went with her to the jail,
remained during the sad interview that took place with her unhappy
grandson, and gave her a gorgeous bouquet with which to assuage her
grief.

He took her to a hotel, and did not leave her until she had signed a ten weeks'contract to appear in his
dime museum. These, with many other facts illustrative of Tony's generosity and gentle sympathy, appeared
in many of the newspapers the next day.

Whatever may have been their general effect, there were bosoms in
which they produced disagreeable sensations, and among these was the
bosom of Billy O'Fake, the Wild Man from Borneo.

Indeed Mr. O'Fake was positively angry when he saw that Grandmother Cruncher was to be exhibited
from the same platform with himself. He stuck his pipe in his mouth, his hat on his head, and his feet
on the footboard of his bed, and said emphatically that he be domned if he'd shtand the loikes
av this gran'mother business any more at all. It had gone the laste bit too fur, an', bedad,
he'd lay the hull matter before the Brotherhood and Sisterhood of Animated Frakes that blissid marnin'!
The more Mr. O'Fake thought it over the more outraged his feelings became. At last, unable longer
to contain himself, he strode from his room, descended into the Bowery, passed into East Broadway,
and clambered aloft to the fifth story of a rickety flat. There he knocked loudly at a door
and responded in something of violent haste to the invitation to enter. Seated in one corner
of the room, over a small, red-hot stove, was a queer-looking little man. There was a tin plate
on the stove from which the odor of melting cheese arose, and mingling
with the odor of burning tobacco, contributed from the little man's
pipe, burdened the atmosphere with dense and by no means delightful
fumes.

The little man had a fork in one hand and a mug of beer in the other and he was snatching the cheese
from the plate, shoving it into his mouth and washing it down with the beer at a rate and with
a disregard of heat and cold that were wonderful to observe. He was anything but a pretty little
man. His head was big and his body small and his legs very short and very thick. He sat upon
a keg, the top of which he quite amply covered, but his feet came scarcely half-way to the floor.
His gray eyes twinkled from holes sunk far into his head, and twinkled so brightly that you
had to look at them, but so sharply that you wouldn't if you could have helped it. He peeked quickly
at Mr. O'Fake, and cried in a shrill voice:" Hi! hi! Billy! Come in an'sit
down! "" Sit, is it? Where? "said Billy." Vhere?

"repeated the queer little man." If I vos to tell you vhere, Billy, your hingenuity vouldn't be drored
out. Von o'the uses of hexperience, Billy, is to dror hout the hingenuity. You're lookin'summat
doleful, Billy. Cheer hup, me boy, cheer hup! I'd like to inwite you to this'ere feast, but there's
honly von'elp o'cheese left, an'honly von svaller of beer. But pull hout yer pipe an'-- vot's
on yer mind, Billy? "Mr. O'Fake was standing with his back against the
door, his arms folded, his hat on the side of his head, and an ominous
expression on his face."

Have ye seen the marnin'papers, Runty? "he inquired." Papers, Billy, papers? Vot do I vant wid
the papers. No, Billy, I shuns'em.

No man can be a'abitchual reader huv the papers, Billy, vidout comin'to a bad hend. "Mr. O'Fake drew
from his pocket a copy of" The Daily Bazoo, "and pointing at a certain paragraph, said:" Rade thot,
Runty! "The queer little man stuck his fork under the tin plate and flipped it off the stove upon
the floor, heedless of Mr. O'Fake's wishes."

Hexcuse me, Billy, "he said," I never wiolate my princerples. I'ave no use for papers an'I never
reads'em. Wot's it say? "" Bedad, I'll tell ye pwhat it says. It says outrage. It says another
wan o'thim ould women has come bechune me an'me daily bread. It says that Tony Scollop's been and
hired some ould hag av a gran'mother to shtep in an'discredit the
perfession.

I was a lad av tin years, sor, when I furst shtepped upon the boords av a doime moosaum in the
well-known characther av the Son av the Cannibal King. From that day to this, sor, I have exhibited
my charrums to the deloighted eyes av the populus fer tin cints per
look.

I have been a Zulu Chafetain, a Tattooed Grake, a Noted Malay Pirate, a Bushman from Australier,
an'afther a public career which there ben't no better, I am to this day, sor, to this day a Wild Man
from Barneo. Widout the natcheral advantages which a ginerous Heaven has besthowed upon you,
sor, or upon my honored frind, Misther Kwang, the Chinaze Giant, or upon Maddlemerzelle Bristelli,
the bearded Woman, or upon Ko-ko, the T'ree-Headed Girrul,-- widout
sich natcheral advantages, sor, for to raise me at wanst to the front
rank av Frakes, my coorse has been wan av worruk, sor.

That worruk has been done; my name as the greatest living Wild Man
from Barneo is writ, sor, in letthers av goold upon fame's highest
pin-- er, pinister!

There, sor, it is to-day, and shall I now-- ""

Billy, "replied the queer little man," you shall not. Your vords is werry booterful an'werry true. This'ere
bizness of bringin'in Nurse Connellys, an'Marie Wan Zandts, an'the huncles an'hants an'neffies an'nieces
an'gran'mothers belonging to influential murderers an'Young Napoleons uv Finance an'sich, is a-puttin'the
persitions uv legitermate Freaks in peril. I speaks as the Gran'Worthy Sublime an'Mighty Past High
Master uv the Brother'ood an'Sister'ood uv Hanimated Freaks, an'I
says hit vont'do!

Our rights an'liberties is not thus to be er-- is they, Billy? "" Sor, they air not. They-- "" Vell,
then, Billy, you shall come before the Brother'ood an'say so.

You shall say it this werry mornin'vith your best langwidge.

Vith that tongue o'yours, Billy, an'that'ere himposin'presence, ef you honly ad'a crook in yer back or ef
yer heye vos honly in the middle uv yer'ed, Billy, you'd be the leadin'Freak
on herth!

"With this genial and deserved tribute, which Mr. O'Fake received most graciously, the dwarf tumbled
from his keg, which tumbled also in its turn, raked a heavy overcoat
and a rough fur cap from a dark closet, and having got himself into
them, he begged Billy to accompany him without delay.

The Brotherhood and Sisterhood of Animated Freaks was and is one of the most important and distinguished
of the labor organizations of New York. Its membership is composed, as its name implies, of the ladies
and gentlemen actually engaged in the entertainment of the public
by the exhibition of their interesting bodies.

Its purposes are to encourage social pleasures among its members, and to protect them against the
encroachments of domineering managers. Such an organization was made necessary by the continued
aggressions of the managerial classes, who were led by their unbridled greed to resort to all
kinds of unjust expedients whereby to grind down and trample under foot the poor and needy
Freak. This sort of foul injustice went on from year to year, rendering the Freaks more and more
dependent on the opulent and tyrannical managers, until the wrongs resultant from it cried
to heaven for vengeance. At last, from the depths of their misery the Freaks arose and with one
masterful effort they threw off their base shackles and declared themselves
free. It was truly a majestic movement. The Brotherhood was firmly established
in all parts of America and Great Britain, and it duly resolved that
no one should hereafter be a Freak, or be tolerated in the society
of Freaks, who was not a member of the Brotherhood in good standing.
It resolved that no manager should employ any one claiming to be a Freak
who was not thus rendered legitimate. It resolved to various purports,
and in phrases most solemn the majesty of the manhood and womanhood
of the freakly profession was vindicated. The managers, of course,
retaliated in kind.

They organized a trust. They classified
the Freaks and rated them. The relations between labor and capital
engaged in the museum industry became thereby greatly strained, but
as yet no actual rupture had occurred. All hoped in the public interest
to avert such a catastrophe, but each side felt that a fierce struggle
was imminent. Only some such incident as had been supplied in the enterprising
stroke of business accomplished by Tony Scollop was needed to fan the
sparks of resentment into a flame. The flame was already burning in
the bosom of Mr. Billy O'Fake, and when he and the dwarf reached
the Brotherhood's headquarters they were ready to perform the functions
of a torch.

The Executive Council of the Brotherhood, District No. 6, F. I. M.
X. T. S. Z., was about to hold a meeting.

The Council was composed of seven
eminent Freaks-- Sim Boles, the Double-Jointed Wonder; Bony Perkins,
the Ossified Man; Duffer Leech, the Man with the Phenomenal Skull;
Miss Tilly Boles, the Beautiful Mermaid of the Southern Sea; Mrs.
Smock, the Bearded Circassian Beauty; Mr. Billy O'Fake, the Wild Man
from Borneo, and the President of the Brotherhood, Runty, the Dwarf.

These ladies and gentlemen were the leaders,
nay, the fathers and mothers of the organization, distinguished for
their sagacity, resolution and prudence. The arrival of Mr. O'Fake
and the Dwarf completed the council, which proceeded promptly to business.
Runty took the chair, and in a few earnest and well-chosen words,
he dispatched the Ossified Man for a pitcher of beer.

The transaction of
other routine business occupied the attention of the council for a
brief while, but it soon gave way to the pressing business of the hour.
This came in the shape of a resolution presented by Mr. O'Fake, in these
words: Whereas, Mr. T. Scollop, manager of the Universal Dime Museum
of Natural Wonders, has seen fit to involve our honorable profession
in disgrace by the employment for exhibition as an Animated Freak of
Grandmother Cruncher, so called; and, Whereas, The said Grandmother
Cruncher is not a member of this Honorable Brotherhood, nor a Freak, but
merely a person of vulgar notoriety; and, Whereas, The said employment
by the said T. Scollop of the said Female is in violation of Paragraph
13 of Article 210 of Section 306 of Chapter 194 of Book 8 of the Constitution
and By-Laws of this Honorable Brotherhood, therefore be it, RESOLVED,
That a committee of three members of this Council be appointed by the
Grand Worthy Sublime and Mighty Past High Master to see the said T. Scollop
and to inform him of the displeasure which his course herein set
forth has excited in this Council, and to insist upon the immediate
discharge of the said Cruncher.
At two dinner was served, and regularly at that hour the odious Santerre, with two other ruffians
of the same stamp, whom he called his aids-de-camp, visited them to make sure of their presence
and to inspect their rooms; and Cléry remarked that the queen never broke her disdainful silence
to him, though Louis often spoke to him, generally to receive some answer of brutal insult.
After dinner, Louis and Marie Antoinette would play piquet or backgammon; as, while they were
thus engaged, the vigilance of their keepers relaxed, and the noise of shuffling the cards
or rattling the dice afforded them opportunities of saying a few words in whispers to one another,
which at other times would have been overheard. In the evening the queen and the Princess Elizabeth
read aloud, the books chosen being chiefly works of history, or the masterpieces of Corneille
and Racine, as being most suitable to form the minds and tastes of the children; and sometimes
Louis himself would seek to divert them from their sorrows by asking the children riddles,
and finding some amusement in their attempts to solve them. At bed-time the queen herself made
the dauphin say his prayers, teaching him especially the duty of praying for others, for the
Princess de Lamballe, and for Madame de Tourzel, his governess; though even those petitions
the poor boy was compelled to utter in whispers, lest, if they were repeated to the Municipal
Council, he should bring ruin on those whom he regarded as friends. At ten the family separated
for the night, a sentinel making his bed across the door of each of their chambers, to prevent
the possibility of any escape.

In this way they passed a fortnight, when the monotony of their lives was fearfully disturbed.
The Jacobins had established their ascendency. They had created a Revolutionary Tribunal, which
at once began its course of wholesale condemnation, sending almost every one who was brought
before it to the scaffold with merely a form of trial; the guillotine being erected, as it
was said, en permanence, that the deaths of the victims might never be delayed for want of
means to execute them; while, that a succession of victims might never be wanting, Danton,
in his new character of Minister of Justice, instituted a search of every house for arms or
papers, or any thing which might afford evidence or even suggest a suspicion that the owners
disliked or feared the new authorities.

But it was not enough to strike terror into all the peaceful citizens. The Girondins had always
been objects of jealous rivalry to the Jacobins. Fanatical and relentless as they were in their
cruelty, they had recently given proofs that they disapproved of the furious blood-thirstiness
that was beginning to decimate the city, and they had carried the Assembly with them in a vote
for the dissolution of the new Municipal Council. At the same time, intelligence of the Prussian
successes readied the capital, intelligence which, it seemed possible, might animate the Royalists
to some fresh effort; and, lest they should find means of reconciling themselves to Vergniaud
and his party, the Jacobins and Cordeliers resolved to give both a lesson by a deed of blood
which should strike terror into them. We may spare ourselves the pain of relating the horrors
of the September massacre, when, for more than four days, gangs of men worse than devils, and
of women unsexed by profligacy and cruelty till they had become worse even than the men, gave
themselves up to the work of indiscriminate slaughter, deluging the streets with blood, and
where they could spare time, aggravating the pangs of death by superfluous tortures. It will
be sufficient for our purpose to record the fate of one of the most innocent of all the victims,
who owed her death to the fact that she had long been the queen's most chosen friend, and whose
murder was gloated over with special ferocity by the monsters who perpetrated it, as enabling
them to inflict an additional pang on her wretched friend and mistress.

Madame de Lamballe, as we have seen, had accompanied the queen to the Temple on the first day
of her captivity, and had subsequently been removed to one of the city prisons known as La
Force. It was on the prisoners in the different places of confinement that the work of death
was to be done: and she had been specially marked out for slaughter, not solely because she
was beloved by Marie Antoinette, but also, it was understood, because, as she was very rich,
and sister-in-law to the Duc d'Orléans, that detestable prince desired to add her inheritance
to his OWD already vast riches. She was dragged before Hébert, one of the foulest of the Jacobin
crew, who had taken his seat at the gate of the prison to preside over the trials, as they
were called, of the prisoners in La Force. "Swear," said he, "devotion to liberty and to the
nation, and hatred to the king and queen, and you shall live." "I will take the first oath,"
she replied, "but the second never; it is not in my heart. The king and queen I have ever loved
and honored." Almost before she had finished speaking she was pushed into the gate-way. One
ruffian struck her from behind with his sabre. She fell. They tore her into pieces. A letter
of the queen's fell from her hair, in which she had hidden it. The sight of it redoubled the
assassins' fury. They stuck her head on a pike, and carried it in triumph to the Palais Royal
to display it to D'Orléans, who was feasting with some of the companions of his daily orgies,
and then proceeded to the Temple to brandish it before the eyes of the queen.

It was about three o'clock.[4] Dinner had just been removed, and the king and queen were sitting
down to play backgammon, when horrid shouts were heard in the street. One of the soldiers on
guard in the room, who had not yet laid aside every feeling of humanity, closed the window
and even drew the curtain. Another of different temper insisted that Louis should come to the
window and show himself. As the uproar increased, the queen rose from her seat, and the king
asked what was the matter. "Well," said the man, "since you wish to know, they want to show
you the head of Madame de Lamballe." No event that had yet occurred had struck the queen with
such anguish. The uproar increased. Those who bore the head had wished even to force the doors,
and bring their trophy, still bleeding, into the very room where the royal family were, and
were only prevented by a compromise which permitted them to parade it round their tower in
triumph. As the shouts died away, Pétion's secretary arrived with a small sum of money which
had been issued for the king's use. He noticed that the queen stood all the time that he was
in the room, and fancied she assumed that attitude out of respect to the mayor. She had never
stirred since she had heard of the princess's death, but had stood rooted, as it were, to the
ground, stupefied and speechless with horror and anguish. It was long before she could be restored;
and all through the night the rest of the princesses, if at least they could have slept, was
broken by her sobs, which never ceased.

As time passed on, the prospects of the unhappy prisoners became still more gloomy. On the
21st of September the Convention met, and its first act was to abolish royalty and declare
the government a republic, and an officer was instantly sent to make proclamation of the event
under the Temple walls; and, as if the establishment of a republic authorized an increase of
insolence on the part of the guards of the prisoners, the insults to which they were subjected
grew more frequent and more gross. Sentences both menacing and indecent were written on the
walls where they must catch their eye: the soldiers puffed their tobacco-smoke in the queen's
face as she passed, or placed their seats in the passages so much in her way that she could
hardly avoid stumbling over their legs as she went down to the garden. Ven I see you und you
dot money gif me, I say'Dis man he haf soul! He shall be save.'Den I say more as dot. I say he shall
join his hand mit me. He shall print him, den million copies, send him de vorlt ofer, in all
der lankviches, to all der peoples. Dink uf dot! You shall be great Anarchist as I. Ve go
down mit fame togedder!

"He paused for Mr. O'Royster's reply, trembling with fanatical excitement. The reply was somewhat
slow in coming. Mr. O'Royster, when his companion began to talk, had leaned his head on his arm
and closed his eyes. He had preserved this attitude throughout the address and was now breathing
hard."

Vell! "said Bludoffski, impatiently.

Mr. O'Royster drew a more resonant breath, long, deep and mellow."

He sleep! "cried Bludoffski, in scornful fury." Der tog!

He sleep ven I tell him-- "He sprang up, ran across the room and returned with a huge carving-knife."
I vill kill him! "he cried, and, indeed, made start to do it. But as suddenly he checked himself,
tossed the knife on the floor, muttering," Bah, he not fit to kill, "and opened the door into
the saloon. The Anarchist meeting had ended, but several persons were still sitting around the tables,
drinking beer. He called to two of these, and said, in a tone of
almost pitiful despair:" Take dot man home.

I not know who he vas. I not know vere he lif. Somebotty fin'oud. Look his pockets insite. Ask
der boleecemans. Do any dings, but take him avay. He haf no soul, no mind, no heart, no noddings!
"IV. MAGGIE.

Wrapped in contemplation and but little else, probably because his
stock of contemplation largely exceeded his stock of else, Mr. Dootleby
wandered down the Bowery.

Midnight sounded out from the spire in St. Mark's Church just as
Mr. Dootleby, having come from Broadway through Astor Place, turned
about at the Cooper Union.

There was a touch of melancholy in Mr. Dootleby's expression as he looked down the big, brilliant
Bowery, glowing with the light of a hundred electric burners and myriads of gas-jets, and seething
with unnatural activity. He stopped a moment in the shadow thrown by the booth of a coffee and
cake vender, and looked attentively into the faces of the throngs
that passed him.

He seemed to be thinking hard. In truth, it is a suggestive place, is the Bowery. Day and night are
all the same to it. It never gets up and it never goes to bed. It never takes a holiday. It never
keeps Lent. It indulges in no sentiments. It acknowl-edges no authority that bids it remember
the Sabbath Day to keep it holy. But from year's end to year's end it bubbles, and boils, and seethes,
and frets while the daylight lasts, and in the glare of its brighter
night it plunges headlong into carousal!

Mr. Dootleby had a great habit of walking at night, though he seldom came down town so far
as this. His apartments were in Harlem, and usually, after he had taken his dinner and played a rubber
of whist, he found himself sufficiently exercised by a stroll as far as Forty-second Street. But to-night
he felt a trifle restless, and journeyed on. Though his hair was nearly white and his face
somewhat deeply furrowed, Mr. Dootleby's tall heavy figure stood
straight toward the zenith, and moved with an ease and celerity that
many a younger man had envied.

With
his antecedents I am not entirely familiar, but they say he was always eccentric. I, for my part,
shall like him none the less for this. They say he was rich once, but that he never knew how
to take care of his money, and what part of it he did not give away slipped off of its own accord.
They say he was past fifty when he married, and his bride was a young
woman, and when they went off together he was as frisky as a young
fellow of twenty-three.

Then, they say, she died, and after that he took but little interest in things, spending his time
chiefly in such amiable pursuits as the entertainment of the children playing in Central Park, and
the writing of an occasional article for the scientific papers, on" The Peculiar Behavior of
Alloys. "Despite the dinginess of his costume, Mr. Dootleby was a handsome old man, and he looked
very out of place on the Bowery. Not that good looks are wanting in the Bowery, for many
a crownless Cleopatra mingles with its crowds.

But Mr. Dootleby, as he stood in the shadow of the coffee-vender's booth, seemed to be the one
kind of being necessarily incongruous with the midnight Bowery spectacle. Mr. Dootleby stood and
looked for full twenty minutes. In some of the faces that passed him he saw only a careless
sensuality brightened by the flush of excitement. Others, somewhat
older, were full of brazen coarseness, and others, older still, bore
that pitiful look of hopeless regret, quickly changing to one that
says as plainly as can be that the time for thinking and caring has
gone.

Upon many was stamped the brand of inborn infamy, their only inheritance. Some hunted souls went
by, their manner jaded and hapless, their steps nervous and irresolute, and their eyes sweeping
the streets before them, never resting, never closed. A few as they passed scowled at him-- even at him,
as if there were not one in all this world upon whom they had not declared war. Want had marked
most of them with unmistakable lines, and crossing these were often
others telling that they knew no better than they did.

Mr. Dootleby watched awhile and then went on, pausing occasionally at the corners to peer through
the dark side streets, up at the big tenement-houses-- those ugly nurseries of vice-- from whose
black shadows came many of these that had been christened into crime. But in the Bowery itself
there was no gloomy spot. Light streamed from every window, and flooded the pavements. The street-cars
whirled along. Even the bony creatures that drew them caught the
spirit of this feverish thoroughfare.

From every other doorway, shielded by cloth or wicker screens, came the sounds of twanging harps and
scraping fiddles, the click of glasses and the shrill chatter and laughter of discordant voices.
Here and there, in front of a bewildering canvas, upon which, in the gayest of gay colors,
mountainous fat women, prodigious giants, scaly mermaids, wild men from Zululand, living skeletons,
and three-headed girls were painted, stood clamorous gentlemen in
tights, urgently importuning passers-by to enter the establishments
they represented, whereof the glories and mysteries could be but too
feebly told in words.

And upon the sidewalks all about him, swarms of itinerant musicians, instantaneous photographers,
dealers in bric-a-brac, toilet articles, precious stones, soda water, and other needful and nutritious
wares, urged themselves upon Mr. Dootleby's attention. He walked leisurely on, moralizing as he
went, until he had passed Chatham Square, and had got into the somberer district below. He
turned a corner somewhere, thinking to walk around the block and find his way back into the
Bowery.

But the more corners he rounded the more he found ever at his elbow, and the conviction began
to make its way into his mind that he had lost his bearings. The block in which he was now wandering
was quite dark and dismal, save for a single gas-jet hanging almost
hidden within a dirty globe, over some steep steps that led into a
cellar.

Mr. Dootleby concluded to stop there and ask his way. As he approached the cellar, he heard what seemed
to be cries of distress. They grew more distinct, and accompanying them
were the dull sounds of blows and the harsh accents of a man's voice,
evidently permeated with rage. Mr. Dootleby ran down the steps and
flung the door open, presenting his eyes with a spectacle that made
his blood run cold. The room was long and narrow.

At one end and near the door was a bar fitted up with a few black bottles and broken tumblers, a
keg or two of beer, and some boxes of cigars. Along the walls stood a couple of benches, and
further on were half a dozen little rooms, partitioned from each
other, all opening into the bar-room.

On the benches six girls were lolling about, dressed in gaudy tights, and with them were three or four
men. The room was hot to suffocation, and the smell from the dim and dirty lamps that stood
on each end of the bar, together with the foul tobacco-smoke with which the atmosphere was saturated,
combined to make the place disgusting and poisonous.

All
these conditions Mr. Dootleby took in at his first glance, and his second fell upon two figures
in the center of the room, from whom had proceded the noises he had heard. One was that of a girl
cowering on her knees and moaning in a voice from which reason had clearly departed. A big, unconscionably
brutal-looking man stood over her, holding her down by her hair,
which, braided in a single plait, was wound about his hand.

He had just thrown the stick upon the floor with which he had been beating her, and was drawing from
the stove a red-hot poker.

Mr. Dootleby was not of an excitable temperament ordinarily, but his senses were so affected
by the horrors he saw and the pestilential air he breathed that his head began to swim, and
only by an especial draft upon his resolution was he able to command himself. There was a pause
consequent upon his entrance, and his quick eyes made good use of it. He saw that the girl had
already been half murdered, and that her assailant was a short, thick-set old man, with the
eyes of a snake and the neck of a bull. He saw that the men on the bench, all beastly specimens,
were contemplating her torture with an indifference that would have shamed the grossest savage.
Several of the women, too-- the older ones-- were looking on with scarcely
the sign of a protest in their faces, and only one, a mere child,
seemed to feel a genuine sense of terror and sympathy.

Mr. Dootleby threw open his coat, tightened his grasp on his walking-stick, and said, very
quietly:" What are you doing? "The fellow wheeled quickly around. He looked with intense malice
at Mr. Dootleby, and then shouted at one of the women," Why didencher lock de door like I toljer, you
fool? "Mr. Dootleby did not wait for either of these questions to be answered. He sprang into
action with all the agility and ferocity of a young panther. The handle of his cane was a huge knob
of carved ivory.

He brought it directly on the head of the ruffian in a blow of tremendous force, and as the
fellow staggered, Mr. Dootleby grasped the poker, turning it so that its heated end touched his
antagonist's arm. Of course, the man loosened his hold, and in an instant more dropped upon
the floor.

Then Mr. Dootleby, keenly alive to the necessity of improving every second, caught the prostrate girl
by the arm and threw her behind him toward the open door." Run for your life! "he said. But she
didn't run. She couldn't run, and while she was struggling to get upon her feet, the fellow recovered
himself and emitted a roar that acted on her terrified soul as if
it had been a blow.

She fell incontinently upon her back in a dead swoon. Mr. Dootleby's situation was perilous. He
had hoped by a sudden and overwhelming attack to stun the man and
get the girl out into the street.

But
the man's quick recovery and the girl's exhaustion left him in almost as bad a situation as ever,
and he glanced apprehensively at the party upon the benches.

They had scarcely stirred! One of the men, indeed, had risen, and was standing with his hands in his
pockets and something in the nature of an amused smile upon his face.
The others had so far shifted their positions as to be the better
able to see whatever went on, and only one of them manifested the
slightest desire to take a hand in the proceedings.

This was the little girl of twelve or fourteen. She was intensely excited, and in the moment's
pause that succeeded Mr. Dootleby's onslaught she dashed across the room, and lifting the head
of the unconscious girl, rested it on her knee, and stroked it soothingly." Good for you, my child!
"said Mr. Dootleby." Try to bring her to. "The hideous old scoundrel, as he now turned again
to confront Mr. Dootleby, was more hideous than ever. Blood from the wound in his head was
trickling over his face, into which the fury of a legion of devils was concentrated." Sissy! "he
bellowed," go back to yer bench! "" Don't do it, my child, "said Mr. Dootleby." You're all
right.

Run outside if it gets too dangerous for you in here. "The fellow gathered himself together, evidently
intending to dash past Mr. Dootleby toward the bar beyond. But Mr. Dootleby lifted the poker ominously."
Stand back! "he cried.

A slight chuckle came from the man who had risen from the bench." Dey don't seem ter be no flies
on dis party, Pete! "he said, with a broad grin. Pete's answer was a scowl and an oath." W'y doncher
come on, an'help me do him up? "he snorted." Wot ud be de use? I t'ink he kin get away wid you,
Pete, an'I wanter see de fun.

He's chain lightnin', ole man, an'you better be sure of yer holt. "" I'll give all dere is on
him if you'll help, Dick! "said Pete. Mr. Dootleby took his watch, his gold pencil, and a dollar
or so in change from his pockets, and tossed them toward Dick." That's all I've got, "he
said." Now, let us alone. "Dick slid the coins in his pocket and carefully examined the gold watch."
Dere's a good'eal er sportin'blood in de old gen'l'man, Pete; a good'eal er sportin'blood, "he
remarked, with the utmost cheerfulness." Bein'a sportin'man myself I ainter goin'back on a frien'.
"" You're goin'back on your word fast enough!

"said Pete bitterly." No, I aint. I toljer I wouldn't bodder you.

I didn't guarantee nobody else. You sed she was yourn, and you was goin'to make her promise
to quit young Swiggsy. I offered to match you five dollars agin de gurl, an'I said if you was to win I wouldn't
trouble you. You said if I winned I could have her. All right.

I lost, an'I give up my good money. Den you went ter work wallopin'de gurl. You'd er kilt her if dis
covey hadn't er lit in.

All right, dat wasn't no fault er mine. An'fur all me, he kin stick dat blazin'iron clear down
yer t'roat, an'I'll set yere an'take it in widout winkin'.

"Mr. Dootleby listened intently to this speech. It afforded him an inkling of the situation." Is this girl
your daughter? "he said. Pete was in no humor to parley.

He could only growl and swear.

When he had relieved himself without, enlightening Mr. Dootleby,
Dick spoke again."

She ain't
nobody's darter, ole gent, but he sez she's his gurl. She been keepin'comp'ny
wid young Swiggsy, an'she wont promise not ter. Dat's de whole biznuss.
De harder he walloped, de more she wouldn't promise.

"Mr. Dootleby felt in his arms the strength of a whole army
corps."

Look here, "he said to Dick," will you promise me fair play?
"" Dey wont nobody interfere widjer, "Dick replied."

I'll be
de empire, an'I t'ink I kin referee a mill'long er de bes'.

Sail right in, ole
gent. The gurl stan's fer de di'mun'belt. If you knocks out yer man,
she's yourn. If he licks you, an'has any strength left, he kin go on wid
his wallopin'. "" Sissy's "soothing hand and the fresh air coming through
the door had brought back life into the girl's limp body.

She was still weak and
prostrate, lying at full length on the floor, with her head supported
upon Sissy's shoulder.

She was a brilliant type
of the ignorant and vicious population which overflows the tenements
in certain downtown districts and furnishes the largest element in the
city's criminal society. Her eyes were large, and must have been, under
better conditions, full of light and expression. Even now, when great
lumps, dark and burning with inflammation, stood out upon her forehead,
and heavy sashes of black circled her eyes, while all the rest of
her face was white and bloodless and cruelly distorted with pain--
even now there was a kind of beauty about her that gave her rank
above the class to which conditions, more forceful than laws, condemned
her.

Condemned? Yes, condemned; why
not? What did she know of the science of morals, of souls, or revelations,
or higher laws?

Who
had ever mentioned these things to her.

What had she to do with questions
of right and wrong? What was right to her but gratification, or wrong
but want?

What was passion but
nature pent up, or crime but congested nature suddenly set free? She
spoke a Christian tongue. She wore a Christian dress. Her heart answered
to the same emotions that quicken or deaden the beat of other breasts.

She had tears
to shed, hopes to excite, passions to burn, desires to gratify. Nature
had denied her none of the faculties that give beauty, and grace
and dignity and sweetness to another.

Even as she lay
stretched on the floor of a dive in the heart of a Christian city,
but remoter from influences that encourage the good and repress the
bad in her nature than if she were standing in the darkest jungle
of Africa-- even there, degraded, ignorant, and infinitely wretched,
she was a martyr to the very virtues, truth and constancy, of which
she knew the least! And at last Jarjayes and Toulan were forced to abandon the
idea of effecting the escape of the whole family, though they were still confident that they
could accomplish that of the queen, which they regarded as the most important, since it was
plain that it was she who was in the most immediate danger. Elizabeth, as disinterested as
herself, besought her to embrace their offers, and to let her and the children, as being less
obnoxious to the Jacobins, take their chance of some subsequent means of escape, or perhaps
even mercy.

But such a flight was forbidden alike by Marie Antoinette's sense of duty and by her sense
of honor, if indeed the two were ever separated in her mind. My husban'was teacher. He never was
a slave. His father bought freedom through a blacksmith shop, some
way.

"I had a nice weddin'. My dress was white and trimmed with blue ribbon. My second day dress was
white with red dots. I had a beautiful veil and a wreath and'bout two, three waiters for table
dat day."

My mother was nearly white. Brighter than me. We lef'my father in Virginia. I was jus'as white as
de chillen I played with. I used to be plum bright, but here lately
I'm gettin'awful dark.

"My husban'was of a mixture, like you call bright ginger-cake color.
I don'know where he got his learnin'. I feel so bad since he's gone
to Glory."

Now I'm ole, de Lord has taken care of me. He put that
spirit in people to look after ole folks and now my chillen look after
me. It gave the gospel to all nations, as the power of God unto salvation
to every man that believeth.

The one, and only, question in the Judgment is, What have I done for myself? What are the deeds done
in my body? the deeds which I have done. De other white folks called we'uns de petted
niggers. There am'bout 30 old and young niggers and'bout 20 piccaninnies too little to work, and
de nuss cares for dem while dey mammies works. "I's
gwine'splain how it am managed on Massa Haley's plantation. Rely upon it that I feel the kindness and the force of your
arguments as far as my own interest is concerned, and that I feel that the opportunity can
not recur. But I could enjoy nothing if I were to leave my children; and this idea prevents
me from even regretting my decision.[5]" 

He tells me that I can do nothing, and you tell me that I can do nothing; and, now, what in the
h— l do you want me to do?” Such inconsistent teaching was always repugnant to common sense and
natural reason. There are many persons yet teaching the old falsehood that man is passive in his
conversion, notwithstanding the fact that men are imperatively commanded to convert— turn, that
their sins may be blotted out. Men are yet found in some Protestant pulpits who spend a great
deal of their time praying the Lord to convert sinners. It is often the case, in their own
estimation, that the Lord gives no heed to their prayers; but this
has happened so frequently that it does not seem to trouble them. In
the summer of the next year it was found in his possession, its history was ascertained, and
he was sent to the scaffold for the sole offense of having and valuing a relic of his murdered
sovereign.

