He came up gasping. The cool immersion had astonishingly revived him. He felt a renewal of
his strength, and he had been cast by luck into a place from which it took no more than the
moderate effort of an able swimmer to reach shore. Point Old stood at an angle to the smashing
seas, making a sheltered bight behind it, and into this bight the flooding tide set in a slow
eddy. MacRae had only to keep himself afloat.

In five minutes his feet touched on a gravel beach. He walked dripping out of the languid swell
that ran from the turbulence outside and turned to look back. The sloop had lodged on the rock,
bilged by the ragged granite. The mast was down, mast and sodden sails swinging at the end
of a stay as each sea swept over the rock with a hissing roar.

MacRae climbed to higher ground. He sat down beside a stunted, leaning fir and watched his
boat go. It was soon done. A bigger sea than most tore the battered hull loose, lifted it high,
let it drop. The crack of breaking timbers cut through the boom of the surf. The next sea swept
the rock clear, and the broken, twisted hull floated awash. Caught in the tidal eddy it began
its slow journey to join the vast accumulation of driftwood on the beach.

MacRae glanced along the island shore. He knew that shore slightly,--a bald, cliffy stretch
notched with rocky pockets in which the surf beat itself into dirty foam. If he had grounded
anywhere in that mile of headland north of Point Old, his bones would have been broken like
the timbers of his sloop.

But his eyes did not linger there nor his thoughts upon shipwreck and sudden death. His gaze
turned across the Gulf to a tongue of land outthrusting from the long purple reach of Vancouver
Island. Behind that point lay the Morton estate, and beside the Morton boundaries, matching
them mile for mile in wealth of virgin timber and fertile meadow, spread the Gower lands.

His face, streaked and blotched with drying bloodstains, scarred with a red gash that split
his cheek from the hair above one ear to a corner of his mouth, hardened into ugly lines. His
eyes burned again.

This happened many years ago, long before a harassed world had to reckon with bourgeois and
Bolshevik, when profiteer and pacifist had not yet become words to fill the mouths of men,
and not even the politicians had thought of saving the world for democracy. Yet men and women
were strangely as they are now. A generation may change its manners, its outward seeming; it
does not change in its loving and hating, in its fundamental passions, its inherent reactions.

MacRae's face worked. His lips quivered as he stared across the troubled sea. He lifted his
hands in a swift gesture of appeal.

"O God," he cried, "curse and blast them in all their ways and enterprises if they deal with
her as they have dealt with me."

CHAPTER I

The House in Cradle Bay

On an afternoon in the first week of November, 1918, under a sky bank full of murky cloud and
an air freighted with a chill which threatened untimely snow, a man came rowing up along the
western side of Squitty Island and turned into Cradle Bay, which lies under the lee of Point
Old. He was a young man, almost boyish-looking. He had on a pair of fine tan shoes, brown overalls,
a new gray mackinaw coat buttoned to his chin. He was bareheaded. Also he wore a patch of pink
celluloid over his right eye.

When he turned into the small half-moon bight, he let up on his oars and drifted, staring with
a touch of surprise at a white cottage-roofed house with wide porches sitting amid an acre
square of bright green lawn on a gentle slope that ran up from a narrow beach backed by a low
sea-wall of stone where the gravel ended and the earth began.

"Hm-m-m," he muttered. "It wasn't built yesterday, either. Funny he never mentioned that."

He pushed on the oars and the boat slid nearer shore, the man's eyes still steadfast on the
house. It stood out bold against the grass and the deeper green of the forest behind. Back
of it opened a hillside brown with dead ferns, dotted with great solitary firs and gnarly branched
arbutus.

No life appeared there. The chimneys were dead. Two moorings bobbed in the bay, but there was
no craft save a white rowboat hauled high above tidewater and canted on its side.

"I wonder, now." He spoke again.

While he wondered and pushed his boat slowly in on the gravel, a low pr-r-r and a sibilant
ripple of water caused him to look behind. A high-bowed, shining mahogany cruiser, seventy
feet or more over all, rounded the point and headed into the bay. The smooth sea parted with
a whistling sound where her brass-shod stem split it like a knife. She slowed down from this
trainlike speed, stopped, picked up a mooring, made fast. The swell from her rolled in, swashing
heavily on the beach.

The man in the rowboat turned his attention to the cruiser. There were people aboard to the
number of a dozen, men and women, clustered on her flush afterdeck. He could hear the clatter
of their tongues, low ripples of laughter, through all of which ran the impatient note of a
male voice issuing peremptory orders.

The cruiser blew her whistle repeatedly,--shrill, imperative blasts. The man in the rowboat
smiled. The air was very still. Sounds carry over quiet water as if telephoned. He could not
help hearing what was said.

"Wise management," he observed ironically, under his breath.

The power yacht, it seemed, had not so much as a dinghy aboard.

A figure on the deck detached itself from the group and waved a beckoning hand to the rowboat.

The rower hesitated, frowning. Then he shrugged his shoulders and pulled out and alongside.
The deck crew lowered a set of steps.

"Take a couple of us ashore, will you?" He was addressed by a short, stout man. He was very
round and pink of face, very well dressed, and by the manner in which he spoke to the others,
and the glances he cast ashore, a person of some consequence in great impatience.

The young man laid his rowboat against the steps.

"Climb in," he said briefly.

"You, Smith, come along," the round-faced one addressed a youth in tight blue jersey and peaked
cap.

The deck boy climbed obediently down. A girl in white duck and heavy blue sweater put her foot
on the steps.

"I think I shall go too, papa," she said.

Her father nodded and followed her.

The rowboat nosed in beside the end of a narrow float that ran from the sea wall. The boy in
the jersey sprang out, reached a steadying hand to his employer. The girl stepped lightly to
the planked logs.

"Give the boy a lift on that boat to the chuck, will you?" the stout person made further request,
indicating the white boat bottom up on shore.

A queer expression gleamed momentarily in the eyes of the boatman. But it passed. He did not
speak, but made for the dinghy, followed by the hand from the yacht. They turned the boat over,
slid it down and afloat. The sailor got in and began to ship his oars.

The man and the girl stood by till this was done. Then the girl turned away. The man extended
his hand.

"Thanks," he said curtly.

The other's hand had involuntarily moved. The short, stout man dropped a silver dollar in it,
swung on his heel and followed his daughter,--passed her, in fact, for she had only taken a
step or two and halted.

The young fellow eyed the silver coin in his hand with an expression that passed from astonishment
to anger and broke at last into a smile of sheer amusement. He jiggled the coin, staring at
it thoughtfully. Then he faced about on the jerseyed youth about to dip his blades.

"Smith," he said, "I suppose if I heaved this silver dollar out into the chuck you'd think
I was crazy."

The youth only stared at him.

"You don't object to tips, do you, Smith?" the man in the mackinaw inquired.

"Gee, no," the boy observed. "Ain't you got no use for money?"

"Not this kind. You take it and buy smokes."

He flipped the dollar into the dinghy. It fell clinking on the slatted floor and the youth
salvaged it, looked it over, put it in his pocket.

"Gee," he said. "Any time a guy hands me money, I keep it, believe me."

His gaze rested curiously on the man with the patch over his eye. His familiar grin faded.
He touched his cap.

"Thank y', sir."

He heaved on his oars. The boat slid out. The man stood watching, hands deep in his pockets.
A displeased look replaced the amused smile as his glance rested a second on the rich man's
toy of polished mahogany and shining brass. Then he turned to look again at the house up the
slope and found the girl at his elbow.

He did not know if she had overheard him, and he did not at the moment care. He met her glance
with one as impersonal as her own.

"I'm afraid I must apologize for my father," she said simply. "I hope you aren't offended.
It was awfully good of you to bring us ashore."

"That's quite all right," he answered casually. "Why should I be offended? When a roughneck
does something for you, it's proper to hand him some of your loose change. Perfectly natural."

"But you aren't anything of the sort," she said frankly. "I feel sure you resent being tipped
for an act of courtesy. It was very thoughtless of papa."

"Some people are so used to greasing their way with money that they'll hand St. Peter a ten-dollar
bill when they pass the heavenly gates," he observed. "But it really doesn't matter. Tell me
something. Whose house is that, and how long has it been there?"

"Ours," she answered. "Two years. We stay here a good deal in the summer."

"Ours, I daresay, means Horace A. Gower," he remarked. "Pardon my curiosity, but you see I
used to know this place rather well. I've been away for some time. Things seem to have changed
a bit."

"You're just back from overseas?" she asked quickly.

He nodded. She looked at him with livelier interest.

"I'm no wounded hero," he forestalled the inevitable question. "I merely happened to get a
splinter of wood in one eye, so I have leave until it gets well."

"If you are merely on leave, why are you not in uniform?" she asked quickly, in a puzzled tone.

"I am," he replied shortly. "Only it is covered up with overalls and mackinaw. Well, I must
be off. Good-by, Miss Gower."

He pushed his boat off the beach, rowed to the opposite side of the bay, and hauled the small
craft up over a log. Then he took his bag in hand and climbed the rise that lifted to the backbone
of Point Old. Halfway up he turned to look briefly backward over beach and yacht and house,
up the veranda steps of which the girl in the blue sweater was now climbing.

"It's queer," he muttered.

He went on. In another minute he was on the ridge. The Gulf opened out, a dead dull gray. The
skies were hidden behind drab clouds. The air was clammy, cold, hushed, as if the god of storms
were gathering his breath for a great effort.

And Jack MacRae himself, when he topped the height which gave clear vision for many miles of
shore and sea, drew a deep breath and halted for a long look at many familiar things.

He had been gone nearly four years. It seemed to him but yesterday that he left. The picture
was unchanged,--save for that white cottage in its square of green. He stared at that with
a doubtful expression, then his uncovered eye came back to the long sweep of the Gulf, to the
brown cliffs spreading away in a ragged line along a kelp-strewn shore. He put down the bag
and seated himself on a mossy rock close by a stunted, leaning fir and stared about him like
a man who has come a great way to see something and means to look his fill.

CHAPTER II

His Own Country

Squitty Island lies in the Gulf of Georgia midway between a mainland made of mountains like
the Alps, the Andes, and the Himalayas all jumbled together and all rising sheer from the sea,
and the low delta-like shore of Vancouver Island. Southward from Squitty the Gulf runs in a
thirty-mile width for nearly a hundred miles to the San Juan islands in American waters, beyond
which opens the sheltered beauty of Puget Sound. Squitty is six miles wide and ten miles long,
a blob of granite covered with fir and cedar forest, with certain parklike patches of open
grassland on the southern end, and a hump of a mountain lifting two thousand feet in its middle.

The southeastern end of Squitty--barring the tide rips off Cape Mudge--is the dirtiest place
in the Gulf for small craft in blowy weather. The surges that heave up off a hundred miles
of sea tortured by a southeast gale break thunderously against Squitty's low cliffs. These
walls face the marching breakers with a grim, unchanging front. There is nothing hospitable
in this aspect of Squitty. It is an ugly shore to have on the lee in a blow.

Yet it is not so forbidding as it seems. The prevailing summer winds on the Gulf are westerly.
Gales of uncommon fierceness roar out of the northwest in fall and early winter. At such times
the storms split on Squitty Island, leaving a restful calm under those brown, kelp-fringed
cliffs. Many a small coaster has crept thankfully into that lee out of the whitecapped turmoil
on either side, to lie there through a night that was wild outside, watching the Ballenas light
twenty miles away on a pile of bare rocks winking and blinking its warning to less fortunate
craft. Tugs, fishing boats, salmon trollers, beach-combing launches, all that mosquito fleet
which gets its bread upon the waters and learns bar, shoal, reef, and anchorage thoroughly
in the getting,--these knew that besides the half-moon bight called Cradle Bay, upon which
fronted Horace Gower's summer home, there opened also a secure, bottle-necked cove less than
a mile northward from Point Old.

By day a stranger could only mark the entrance by eagle watch from a course close inshore.
By night even those who knew the place as they knew the palm of their hand had to feel their
way in. But once inside, a man could lie down in his bunk and sleep soundly, though a southeaster
whistled and moaned, and the seas roared smoking into the narrow mouth. No ripple of that troubled
the inside of Squitty Cove. It was a finger of the sea thrust straight into the land, a finger
three hundred yards long, forty yards wide, with an entrance so narrow that a man could heave
a sounding lead across it, and that entrance so masked by a rock about the bigness of a six-room
house that one holding the channel could touch the rock with a pike pole as he passed in. There
was a mud bottom, twenty-foot depth at low tide, and a little stream of cold fresh water brawling
in at the head. A cliff walled it on the south. A low, grassy hill dotted with solitary firs,
red-barked arbutus, and clumps of wild cherry formed its northern boundary. And all around
the mouth, in every nook and crevice, driftwood of every size and shape lay in great heaps,
cast high above tidewater by the big storms.

So Squitty had the three prime requisites for a harbor,--secure anchorage, fresh water, and
firewood. There was good fertile land, too, behind the Cove,--low valleys that ran the length
of the island. There were settlers here and there, but these settlers were not the folk who
intermittently frequented Squitty Cove. The settlers stayed on their land, battling with stumps,
clearing away the ancient forest, tilling the soil. Those to whom Squitty Cove gave soundest
sleep and keenest joy were tillers of the sea. Off Point Old a rock brown with seaweed, ringed
with a bed of kelp, lifted its ugly head now to the one good, blue-gray eye of Jack MacRae,
the same rock upon which Donald MacRae's sloop broke her back before Jack MacRae was born.
It was a sunken menace at any stage of water, heartily cursed by the fishermen. In the years
between, the rock had acquired a name not written on the Admiralty charts. The hydrographers
would look puzzled and shake their heads if one asked where in the Gulf waters lay Poor Man's Rock.

But Poor Man's Rock it is. Greek and Japanese, Spaniard and Italian, American and Canadian--and
there are many of each--who follow the silver-sided salmon when they run in the Gulf of Georgia,
these know that Poor Man's Rock lies half a cable south southwest of Point Old on Squitty Island.
Most of them know, too, why it is called Poor Man's Rock.

Under certain conditions of sea and sky the Rock is as lonely and forbidding a spot as ever
a ship's timbers were broken upon. Point Old thrusts out like the stubby thumb on a clenched
first. The Rock and the outer nib of the Point are haunted by quarreling flocks of gulls and
coots and the black Siwash duck with his stumpy wings and brilliant yellow bill. The southeaster
sends endless battalions of waves rolling up there when it blows. These rear white heads over
the Rock and burst on the Point with shuddering impact and showers of spray. When the sky is
dull and gray, and the wind whips the stunted trees on the Point--trees that lean inland with
branches all twisted to the landward side from pressure of many gales in their growing years--and
the surf is booming out its basso harmonies, the Rock is no place for a fisherman. Even the
gulls desert it then.

But in good weather, in the season, the blueback and spring salmon swim in vast schools across
the end of Squitty. They feed upon small fish, baby herring, tiny darting atoms of finny life
that swarm in countless numbers. What these inch-long fishes feed upon no man knows, but they
begin to show in the Gulf early in spring. The water is alive with them,--minute, darting streaks
of silver. The salmon follow these schools, pursuing, swallowing, eating to live. Seal and
dogfish follow the salmon. Shark and the giant blackfish follow dogfish and seal. And man follows
them all, pursuing and killing that he himself may live.

Around Poor Man's Rock the tide sets strongly at certain stages of ebb and flood. The cliffs
north of Point Old and the area immediately surrounding the Rock are thick strewn with kelp.
In these brown patches of seaweed the tiny fish, the schools of baby herring, take refuge from
their restless enemy, the swift and voracious salmon.

For years Pacific Coast salmon have been taken by net and trap, to the profit of the salmon
packers and the satisfaction of those who cannot get fish save out of tin cans. The salmon
swarmed in millions on their way to spawn in fresh-water streams. They were plentiful and cheap.
But even before the war came to send the price of linen-mesh net beyond most fishermen's pocketbooks,
men had discovered that salmon could be taken commercially by trolling lines. The lordly spring,
which attains to seventy pounds, the small, swift blueback, and the fighting coho could all
be lured to a hook on a wobbling bit of silver or brass at the end of a long line weighted
with lead to keep it at a certain depth behind a moving boat. From a single line over the stern
it was but a logical step to two, four, even six lines spaced on slender poles boomed out on
each side of a power launch,--once the fisherman learned that with this gear he could take
salmon in open water. So trolling was launched. Odd trollers grew to trolling fleets. A new
method became established in the salmon industry.

But there are places where the salmon run and a gasboat trolling her battery of lines cannot
go without loss of gear. The power boats cannot troll in shallows. They cannot operate in kelp
without fouling. So they hold to deep open water and leave the kelp and shoals to the rowboats.

And that is how Poor Man's Rock got its name. In the kelp that surrounded it and the greater
beds that fringed Point Old, the small feed sought refuge from the salmon and the salmon pursued
them there among the weedy granite and the boulders, even into shallows where their back fins
cleft the surface as they dashed after the little herring. The foul ground and the tidal currents
that swept by the Rock held no danger to the gear of a rowboat troller. He fished a single
short line with a pound or so of lead. He could stop dead in a boat length if his line fouled.
So he pursued the salmon as the salmon pursued the little fish among the kelp and boulders.

Only a poor man trolled in a rowboat, tugging at the oars hour after hour without cabin shelter
from wind and sun and rain, unable to face even such weather as a thirty by eight-foot gasboat
could easily fish in, unable to follow the salmon run when it shifted from one point to another
on the Gulf. The rowboat trollers must pick a camp ashore by a likely ground and stay there.
If the salmon left they could only wait till another run began. Whereas the power boat could
hear of schooling salmon forty miles away and be on the spot in seven hours' steaming.

Poor Man's Rock had given many a man his chance. Nearly always salmon could be taken there
by a rowboat. And because for many years old men, men with lean purses, men with a rowboat,
a few dollars, and a hunger for independence, had camped in Squitty Cove and fished the Squitty
headlands and seldom failed to take salmon around the Rock, the name had clung to that brown
hummock of granite lifting out of the sea at half tide. From April to November, any day a rowboat
could live outside the Cove, there would be half a dozen, eight, ten, more or less, of these
solitary rowers bending to their oars, circling the Rock.

Now and again one of these would hastily drop his oars, stand up, and haul in his line hand
over hand. There would be a splashing and splattering on the surface, a bright silver fish
leaping and threshing the water, to land at last with a plop! in the boat. Whereupon the fisherman
would hurriedly strike this dynamic, glistening fish over the head with a short, thick club,
lest his struggles snarl the line, after which he would put out his spoon and bend to the oars
again. It was a daylight and dusk job, a matter of infinite patience and hard work, cold and
wet at times, and in midsummer the blaze of a scorching sun and the eye-dazzling glitter of
reflected light.

But a man must live. Some who came to the Cove trolled long and skillfully, and were lucky
enough to gain a power troller in the end, to live on beans and fish, and keep a strangle hold
on every dollar that came in until with a cabin boat powered with gas they joined the trolling
fleet and became nomads. They fared well enough then. Their taking at once grew beyond a rowboat's
scope. They could see new country, hearken to the lure of distant fishing grounds. There was
the sport of gambling on wind and weather, on the price of fish or the number of the catch.
If one locality displeased them they could shift to another, while the rowboat men were chained
perforce to the monotony of the same camp, the same cliffs, the same old weary round.

Sometimes Squitty Cove harbored thirty or forty of these power trollers. They would make their
night anchorage there while the trolling held good, filling the Cove with talk and laughter
and a fine sprinkle of lights when dark closed in. With failing catches, or the first breath
of a southeaster that would lock them in the Cove while it blew, they would be up and away,--to
the top end of Squitty, to Yellow Rock, to Cape Lazo, anywhere that salmon might be found.

And the rowboat men would lie in their tents and split-cedar lean-tos, cursing the weather,
the salmon that would not bite, grumbling at their lot.

There were two or three rowboat men who had fished the Cove almost since Jack MacRae could
remember,--old men, fishermen who had shot their bolt, who dwelt in small cabins by the Cove,
living somehow from salmon run to salmon run, content if the season's catch netted three hundred
dollars. All they could hope for was a living. They had become fixtures there.

Jack MacRae looked down from the bald tip of Point Old with an eager gleam in his uncovered
eye. There was the Rock with a slow swell lapping over it. There was an old withered Portuguese
he knew in a green dugout, Long Tom Spence rowing behind the Portuguese, and they carrying
on a shouted conversation. He picked out Doug Sproul among three others he did not know,--and
there was not a man under fifty among them.

Three hundred yards offshore half a dozen power trollers wheeled and counterwheeled, working
an eddy. He could see them haul the lines hand over hand, casting the hooked fish up into the
hold with an easy swing. The salmon were biting.

It was all familiar to Jack MacRae. He knew every nook and cranny on Squitty Island, every
phase and mood and color of the sea. It is a grim birthplace that leaves a man without some
sentiment for the place where he was born. Point Old, Squitty Cove, Poor Man's Rock had been
the boundaries of his world for a long time. In so far as he had ever played, he had played there.

He looked for another familiar figure or two, without noting them.

"The fish are biting fast for this time of year," he reflected. "It's a wonder dad and Peter
Ferrara aren't out. And I never knew Bill Munro to miss anything like this."

He looked a little longer, over across the tip of Sangster Island two miles westward, with
its Elephant's Head,--the extended trunk of which was a treacherous reef bared only at low
tide. He looked at the Elephant's unwinking eye, which was a twenty-foot hole through a hump
of sandstone, and smiled. He had fished for salmon along the kelp beds there and dug clams
under the eye of the Elephant long, long ago. It did seem a long time ago that he had been
a youngster in overalls, adventuring alone in a dugout about these bold headlands.

He rose at last. The November wind chilled him through the heavy mackinaw. He looked back at
the Gower cottage, like a snowflake in a setting of emerald; he looked at the Gower yacht;
and the puzzled frown returned to his face.

Then he picked up his bag and walked rapidly along the brow of the cliffs toward Squitty Cove.

CHAPTER III

The Flutter of Sable Wings

A path took form on the mossy rock as Jack MacRae strode on. He followed this over patches
of grass, by lone firs and small thickets, until it brought him out on the rim of the Cove.
He stood a second on the cliffy north wall to look down on the quiet harbor. It was bare of
craft, save that upon the beach two or three rowboats lay hauled out. On the farther side a
low, rambling house of logs showed behind a clump of firs. Smoke lifted from its stone chimney.

MacRae smiled reminiscently at this and moved on. His objective lay at the Cove's head, on
the little creek which came whispering down from the high land behind. He gained this in another
two hundred yards, coming to a square house built, like its neighbor, of stout logs with a
high-pitched roof, a patch of ragged grass in front, and a picket-fenced area at the back in
which stood apple trees and cherry and plum, gaunt-limbed trees all bare of leaf and fruit.
Ivy wound up the corners of the house. Sturdy rosebushes stood before it, and the dead vines
of sweet peas bleached on their trellises.

It had the look of an old place--as age is reckoned in so new a country--old and bearing the
marks of many years' labor bestowed to make it what it was. Even from a distance it bore a
homelike air. MacRae's face lightened at the sight. His step quickened. He had come a long
way to get home.

Across the front of the house extended a wide porch which gave a look at the Cove through a
thin screen of maple and alder. From the grass-bordered walk of beach gravel half a dozen steps
lifted to the floor level. As MacRae set foot on the lower step a girl came out on the porch.

MacRae stopped. The girl did not see him. Her eyes were fixed questioningly on the sea that
stretched away beyond the narrow mouth of the Cove. As she looked she drew one hand wearily
across her forehead, tucking back a vagrant strand of dusky hair. MacRae watched her a moment.
The quick, pleased smile that leaped to his face faded to soberness.

"Hello, Dolly," he said softly.

She started. Her dark eyes turned to him, and an inexpressible relief glowed in them. She held
up one hand in a gesture that warned silence,--and by that time MacRae had come up the steps
to her side and seized both her hands in his. She looked at him speechlessly, a curious passivity
in her attitude. He saw that her eyes were wet.

"What's wrong, Dolly?" he asked. "Aren't you glad to see Johnny come marching home? Where's dad?"

"Glad?" she echoed. "I never was so glad to see any one in my life. Oh, Johnny MacRae, I wish
you'd come sooner. Your father's a sick man. We've done our best, but I'm afraid it's not good
enough."

"He's in bed, I suppose," said MacRae. "Well, I'll go in and see him. Maybe it'll cheer the
old boy up to see me back."

"He won't know you," the girl murmured. "You mustn't disturb him just now, anyway. He has fallen
into a doze. When he comes out of that he'll likely be delirious."

"Good Lord," MacRae whispered, "as bad as that! What is it?"

"The flu," Dolly said quietly. "Everybody has been having it. Old Bill Munro died in his shack
a week ago."

"Has dad had a doctor?"

The girl nodded.

"Harper from Nanaimo came day before yesterday. He left medicine and directions; he can't come
again. He has more cases than he can handle over there."

They went through the front door into a big, rudely furnished room with a very old and worn
rug on the floor, a few pieces of heavy furniture, and bare, uncurtained windows. A heap of
wood blazed in an open cobblestone fireplace.

MacRae stopped short just within the threshold. Through a door slightly ajar came the sound
of stertorous breathing, intermittent in its volume, now barely audible, again rising to a
labored harshness. He listened, a look of dismayed concern gathering on his face. He had heard
men in the last stages of exhaustion from wounds and disease breathe in that horribly distressed
fashion.

He stood a while uncertainly. Then he laid off his mackinaw, walked softly to the bedroom door,
looked in. After a minute of silent watching he drew back. The girl had seated herself in a
chair. MacRae sat down facing her.

"I never saw dad so thin and old-looking," he muttered. "Why, his hair is nearly white. He's
a wreck. How long has he been sick?"

"Four days," Dolly answered. "But he hasn't grown old and thin in four days, Jack. He's been
going downhill for months. Too much work. Too much worry also, I think--out there around the
Rock every morning at daylight, every evening till dark. It hasn't been a good season for the
rowboats."

MacRae stirred uneasily in his chair. He didn't understand why his father should have to drudge
in a trolling boat. They had always fished salmon, so far back as he could recall, but never
of stark necessity. He nursed his chin in his hand and thought. Mostly he thought with a constricted
feeling in his throat of how frail and old his father had grown, the slow-smiling, slow-speaking
man who had been father and mother and chum to him since he was an urchin in knee breeches.
He recalled him at their parting on a Vancouver railway platform,--tall and rugged, a lean,
muscular, middle-aged man, bidding his son a restrained farewell with a longing look in his
eyes. Now he was a wasted shadow. Jack MacRae shivered. He seemed to hear the sable angel's
wing-beats over the house.

He looked up at the girl at last.

"You're worn out, aren't you, Dolly?" he said. "Have you been caring for him alone?"

"Uncle Peter helped," she answered. "But I've stayed up and worried, and I am tired, of course.
It isn't a very cheerful home-coming, is it, Jack? And he was so pleased when he got your cable
from London. Poor old man!"

MacRae got up suddenly. But the clatter of his shoes on the floor recalled him to himself.
He sat down again.

"I've got to do something," he asserted.

"There's nothing you can do," Dolly Ferrara said wistfully. "He can't be moved. You can't get
a doctor or a nurse. The country's full of people down with the flu. There's only one chance
and I've taken that. I wrote a message to Doctor Laidlaw--you remember he used to come here
every summer to fish--and Uncle Peter went across to Sechelt to wire it. I think he'll come
if he can, or send some one, don't you? They were such good friends."

"That was a good idea," MacRae nodded. "Laidlaw will certainly come if it's possible."

"And I can keep cool cloths on his head and feed him broth and give him the stuff Doctor Harper
left. He said it depended mostly on his own resisting power. If he could throw it off he would.
If not--"

She turned her palms out expressively.

"How did you come?" she asked presently.

"Across from Qualicum in a fish carrier to Folly Bay. I borrowed a boat at the Bay and rowed up."

"You must be hungry," she said. "I'll get you something to eat."

"I don't feel much like eating,"--MacRae followed her into the kitchen--"but I can drink a
cup of tea."

He sat on a corner of the kitchen table while she busied herself with the kettle and teapot,
marveling that in four years everything should apparently remain the same and still suffer
such grievous change. There was an air of forlornness about the house which hurt him. The place
had run down, as the sands of his father's life were running down. Of the things unchanged
the girl he watched was one. Yet as he looked with keener appraisal, he saw that Dolly Ferrara
too had changed.

Her dusky cloud of hair was as of old; her wide, dark eyes still mirrored faithfully every
shift of feeling, and her incomparable creamy skin was more beautiful than ever. Moving, she
had lost none of her lithe grace. And though she had met him as if it had been only yesterday
they parted, still there was a difference which somehow eluded him. He could feel it, but it
was not to be defined. It struck him for the first time that many who had never seen a battlefield,
never heard a screaming shell, nor shuddered at the agony of a dressing station, might still
have suffered by and of and through the reactions of war.

They drank their tea and ate a slice of toast in silence. MacRae's comrades in France had called
him "Silent" John, because of his lapses into concentrated thought, his habit of a close mouth
when he was hurt or troubled or uncertain. One of the things for which he had liked Dolly Ferrara
had been her possession of the same trait, uncommon in a girl. She could sit on the cliffs
or lie with him in a rowboat lifting and falling in the Gulf swell, staring at the sea and
the sky and the wheeling gulls, dreaming and keeping her dreams shyly to herself,--as he did.
They did not always need words for understanding. And so they did not talk now for the sake
of talking, pour out words lest silence bring embarrassment. Dolly sat resting her chin in
one hand, looking at him impersonally, yet critically, he felt. He smoked a cigarette and held
his peace until the labored breathing of the sick man changed to disjointed, muttering, incoherent
fragments of speech.

