Mr. Wirt required the questions to be written out in proper form before he could answer them.
Mr. Grice employed Tyson, who drew up a series of questions, based upon the Constitution of
the United States, and relating to the rights and citizenship of the free black. He carried
the questions to Mr. Wirt, who, glancing over them, said, "Really, sir, my position as an officer
under the government renders it a delicate matter for me to answer these questions as they
should be answered, but I'll tell you what to do: they should be answered, and by the best
legal talent in the land; do you go to Philadelphia, and present my name to Horace Binney,
and he will give you an answer satisfactory to you, and which will command the greatest respect
throughout the land." Mr. Grice went to Philadelphia, and presented the questions and request
to Horace Binney. This gentleman pleaded age and poor eyesight, but told Mr. Grice that if
he would call on John Sargent he would get answers of requisite character and weight. He called
on John Sargent, who promptly agreed to answer the questions if Mr. Binney would allow his
name to be associated as an authority in the replies. Mr. Binney again declined, and so the
matter fell through. This is what Mr. Grice terms his "Dred Scott case" and so it was.

He attended the convention of 1832, but by some informality, or a want of credentials, was
not permitted to sit as full member!--Saul ejected from among the prophets!--Yet he was heard
on the subject of rights, and the doctrine of "our rights," as well as the first colored convention,
are due to the same man.

In 1832, chagrined at the colored people of the United States, he migrated to Hayti, where,
until 1843, he pursued the business of carver and gilder. In the latter year he was appointed
Director of Public Works in Port-au-Prince, which office he held until two years ago. He is
also engaged in, and has wide knowledge of machinery and engineering. Every two or three years
he visits New York, and is welcomed to the arcana of such men as James J. Mapes, the Bensons,
Dunhams, and at the various works where steam and iron obey human ingenuity in our city. He
is at present in this city, lodging at the house of the widow of his old friend and coadjutor,
Thomas L. Jinnings, 133 Reade street. We have availed ourselves of his presence among us to
glean from him the statements which we have imperfectly put together in this article.

We cannot dismiss this subject without the remark, of peculiar pertinence at this moment, that
it would have been better for our people had Mr. Grice never left these United States. The
twenty-seven years he has passed in Hayti, although not without their mark on the fortunes
of that island, are yet with out such mark as he would have made in the land and upon the institutions
among which he was born. So early as his thirty-second year, before he had reached his intellectual
prime, he had inaugurated two of the leading ideas on which our people have since acted, conventions
to consider and alleviate their grievances, and the struggle for legal rights. If he did such
things in early youth, what might he not have done with the full force and bent of his matured
intellect? And where, in the wide world, in what region, or under what sun, could he so effectually
have labored to elevate the black man as on this soil and under American institutions?

So profoundly are we opposed to the favorite doctrine of the Puritans and their co-workers,
the colonizationists--Ubi Libertas, ibi Patria--that we could almost beseech Divine Providence
to reverse some past events and to fling back into the heart of Virginia and Maryland their
Sam Wards, Highland Garnets, J.W. Penningtons, Frederick Douglasses, and the twenty thousand
who now shout hosannas in Canada--and we would soon see some stirring in the direction of Ubi
Patria, ibi Libertas.--Anglo-African Magazine, October, 1859.

The following statement in relation to the colored schools in said city and county is respectfully
presented by the New York Society for the Promotion of Education among Colored Children:

  1. The number of colored children in the city and county of
    New York (estimated in 1855, from the census of 1850), between
    the ages of 4 and 17 years                                   3,000

    a. Average attendance of colored children at public
    schools in 1855                                         913

    Average attendance of colored children in
    corporate schools supported by school funds
    (Colored Orphan Asylum)                                 240
                                                           ----  1,153

    b. Proportion of average attendance in public
    schools of colored children to whole number
    of same is as 1 to 2.60.

  2. The number of white children in the city of New
    York in 1855 (estimated as above), between the ages of
    4 and 17 years                                             159,000

    a. Average attendance of white children in public
    schools in 1855                                      43,858

    Average attendance of white children in
    corporate schools supported by public
    funds                                                 2,826
                                                         ------ 46,684

    b. Proportion of average attendance of white children
    in public schools to whole number of same
    is as 1 to 3.40.

  3.

  4. The number of colored children attending private schools
    in the city of New York, 125.

    a. The number of white children attending private
    schools in 1850, census gave 10,560, which number has since
    been increased by the establishment of Catholic parochial
    schools, estimated in 1856, 17,560.

    b. The proportion of colored children attending private
    schools to white children attending same, is as 1 to 140.

    c. But the average attendance of colored children in all
    schools is about the same as that of the white in proportion,
    that is to say, as many colored children attend the
    public schools as do whites attend both public and private
    schools, in proportion to the whole number of each class
    of children.

  Locality, capability, etc., of colored schools.

  1. The Board of Education, since its organization, has
    expended in sites and buildings for white schools $1,600,000.

    b. The Board of Education has expended for sites and
    buildings for colored schools (addition to building leased
    19 Thomas), $1,000.

    c. The two schoolhouses in possession of the Board
    now used for colored children were assigned to same by
    the Old Public School Society.

  2. The proportion of colored children to white children
    attending public schools is as 1 to 40.

    a. The sum expended on school buildings and sites of
    colored and white schools by the Board of Education is as
    1 to 1,600.

  3. a. Schoolhouse No. 1, for colored children, is an old
    building, erected in 1820 by the New York Manumission Society
    as a school for colored children, in Mulberry street, in a poor
    but decent locality. It has two departments, one male and one
    female; it consists of two stories only, and has two small
    recitation rooms on each floor, but as primary as well as grammar
    children attend each department, much difficulty and confusion
    arises from the want of class room for the respective studies.
    The building covers only part of the lot, and as it is, the best
    attended and among the best taught of the colored schools, a
    new and ample school building, erected in this place, would
    prove a great attraction, and could be amply filled by children.

    b. Schoolhouse No. 2, erected in Laurens street more
    than twenty years ago for colored children by the Public
    School Society, is in one of the lowest and filthiest
    neighborhoods, and hence, although it has competent teachers
    in the male and female departments, and a separate primary
    department, the attendance has always been slender,
    and will be until the school is removed to a neighborhood
    where children may be sent without danger to their morals.

    c. School No. 3, for colored children, in Yorkville, is
    an old building, is well attended, and deserves, in connection
    with Schoolhouse No. 4, in Harlem, a new building midway
    between the present localities.

    d. Schoolhouse No. 5, for colored children, is an old
    building, leased at No. 19 Thomas street, a most degraded
    neighborhood, full of filth and vice; yet the attendance on
    this school, and the excellence of its teachers, earn for it the
    need of a new site and new building.

    e. Schoolhouse No. 6, for colored children, is in Broadway,
    near 37th street, in a dwelling house leased and fitted
    up for a school, in which there is always four feet of water
    in the cellar. The attendance good.

Yet Mr. Superintendent Kiddle, at a general examination of colored schools held in July last
(for silver medals awarded by the society now addressing your honorable body) declared the
reading and spelling equal to that of any schools in the city.

But if in the judgment of your honorable body common schools are not thus common to all, then
we earnestly pray you to recommend to the Legislature such action as shall cause the Board
of Education of this city to erect at least two well-appointed modern grammar schools for colored
children on suitable sites, in respectable localities, so that the attendance of colored children
may be increased and their minds be elevated in like manner as the happy experience of the
honorable Board of Education has been in the matter of white children.

In addition to the excellent impulse to colored youth which these new grammar schools would
give, they will have the additional argument of actual economy; the children will be taught
with far less expense in two such schoolhouses than in the half dozen hovels into which they
are now driven. It is a costly piece of injustice which educates the white scholar in a palace
at $10 per year and the colored pupil in a hovel at $17 or $18 per annum.

Taxes, etc., of colored population of the city.

No proposition can be more reasonable than that they who pay taxes for schools and schoolhouses
should be provided with schools and schoolhouses. The colored population of this city, in proportion
to their numbers, pay their full share of the general and therefore of the school taxes. There
are about nine thousand adults of both sexes; of these over three thousand are householders,
rent-payers, and therefore tax-payers, in that sense of the word in which owners make tax-payers
of their poor tenants. The colored laboring man, with an income of $200 a year, who pays $72
per year for a room and bedroom, is really in proportion to his means a larger tax-payer than
the millionaire whose tax rate is thousands of dollars. But directly, also, do the colored
people pay taxes. From examinations carefully made, the undersigned affirm that there are in
the city at least 1,000 colored persons who own and pay taxes on real estate.

     Taxed real estate in the city of New York owned
       by colored persons                            $1,400,000
     Untaxed by colored persons (churches)              250,000
     Personal estate                                    710,000
     Money in savings banks                           1,121,000
                                                    -----------
                                                     $3,481,000

These figures indicate that in proportion to their numbers, the colored population of this
city pay a fair share of the school taxes, and that they have been most unjustly dealt with.
Their money has been used to purchase sites and erect and fit up schoolhouses for white children,
whilst their own children are driven into miserable edifices in disgraceful localities. Surely,
the white population of the city are too able, too generous, too just, any longer to suffer
this miserable robbing of their colored fellow-citizens for the benefit of white children.

Praying that your honorable commission will take due notice of these facts, and recommend such
remedy as shall seem to you best,

We have the honor to be, in behalf of the New York Society for the Promotion of Education among
Colored Citizens,

Most respectfully yours,

CHARLES B. RAY, President. PHILIP A. WHITE, Secretary. New York City, December 28, 1857.

"Do you think I'll make a soldier?" is the opening line of one of those delightful spirituals,
originating among the slaves in the far South. I first heard it sung in the Saint James Methodist
Church, corner of Spring and Coming Streets, Charleston, South Carolina, immediately after
the close of the war. It was sung by a vast congregation to a gentle, swinging air, with nothing
of the martial about it, and was accompanied by a swaying of the body to the time of the music.
Occasionally there would be the "curtesys" peculiar to the South Carolina slave of the low
country, which consists in a stooping of the body by bending the knees only, the head remaining
erect, a movement which takes the place of the bow among equals. The older ladies, with heads
adorned with the ever-present Madras kerchief, often tied in the most becoming and tasteful
manner, and faces aglow with an enthusiasm that bespoke a life within sustained by visions
of spiritual things, would often be seen to shake hands and add a word of greeting and hope
which would impart a charm and meaning to the singing far above what the humble words of the
song without these accessories could convey. As the rich chorus of matchless voices poured
out in perfect time and tune, "Rise, shine, and give God the glory," the thoughts of earthly
freedom, of freedom from sin, and finally of freedom from the toils, cares and sorrows of earth
to be baptized into the joys of heaven, all seemed to blend into the many colored but harmonious
strain. The singing of the simple hearted trustful, emancipated slave! Shall we ever hear the
like again on earth? Alas, that the high hopes and glowing prophecies of that auspicious hour
have been so deferred that the hearts of millions have been made sick!

I do not know when this "soldier" song had its birth, but it may have sprung out of the perplexity
of the slave's mind as he contemplated the raging conflict and saw himself drawn nearer and
nearer to the field of strife. Whether in this song the "present predominates," and the query,
therefore, has a strong primary reference to carnal weapons and to garments dyed in blood;
whether the singer invites an opinion as to his fitness to engage in the war for Freedom--it
may not be possible to determine. The "year of Jubilee," coming in the same song in connection
with the purpose for which the singer is to be made a soldier, gives clearer illustration of
that combination of the present and future which Mr. Higginson says was always present in the
spirituals of that period, if it shows no more. When it is remembered that at that time Charleston
was literally trodden under foot by black soldiers in bright uniforms, whose coming seemed
to the colored people of that city like a dream too good to be true, it is not hard to believe
that this song had much of the present in it, and owed its birth to the circumstances of war.

Singularly enough the song makes the Negro ask the exact question which had been asked about
him from the earliest days of our history as a nation, a question which in some form confronts
him still. The question, as the song has it, is not one of fact, but one of opinion. It is
not: Will I make a soldier? but: Do you think I will make a soldier? It is one thing to "make
a soldier," another thing to have men think so. The question of fact was settled a century
ago; the question of opinion is still unsettled. The Negro soldier, hero of five hundred battlefields,
with medals and honors resting upon his breast, with the endorsement of the highest military
authority of the nation, with Port Hudson, El Caney and San Juan behind him, is still expected
by too many to stand and await the verdict of thought, from persons who never did "think" he
would make a soldier, and who never will think so. As well expect the excited animal of the
ring to think in the presence of the red rag of the toreador as to expect them to think on
the subject of the Negro soldier. They can curse, and rant, when they see the stalwart Negro
in uniform, but it is too much to ask them to think. To them the Negro can be a fiend, a brute,
but never a soldier.

To John G. Whittier and to William C. Nell are we indebted for the earliest recital of the
heroic deeds of the colored American in the Wars of the Revolution and 1812. Whittier contributed
an article on this subject to the "National Era" in 1847, and five or six years later Nell
published his pamphlet on "Colored Patriots," a booklet recently reprinted by the African Methodist
Episcopal Church. It is a useful contribution, showing as it does the rising and spreading
abroad of that spirit which appreciates military effort and valor; and while recognizing the
glory that came to American arms in the period described, honestly seeks to place some of that
glory upon the deserving brow of a race then enslaved and despised. The book is unpretentious
and aims to relate the facts in a straight-forward way, unaccompanied by any of the charms
of tasteful presentation. Its author, however, is deserving our thanks, and the book marks
an important stage in the development of the colored American. His mind was turning toward
the creation of the soldier--the formation of armies.

There are other evidences that the mind of the colored man was at this time turning towards
arms. In 1852 Doctor Pennington, one of the most learned colored men of his times, having received
his Degree in Divinity from Heidelberg, delivered an address before a mass convention of colored
citizens of Ohio, held in Cleveland, in which he spoke principally of the colored soldier.
During the convention the "Cleveland Light Artillery" fired a salute, and on the platform were
seated several veteran colored men, some of them, particularly Mr. John Julius, of Pittsburg,
Pa., taking part in the speech-making. Mr. Nell says: "Within recent period several companies
of colored men in New York city have enrolled themselves a la militaire," and quotes from the
New York Tribune of August, 1852, as follows:

     "COLORED SOLDIERS.--Among the many parades within a few days
     we noticed yesterday a soldierly-looking company of colored
     men, on their way homeward from a target or parade drill.
     They looked like men, handled their arms like men, and
     should occasion demand, we presume they would fight like
     men."

In Boston, New Haven, New Bedford and other places efforts were made during the decade from
1850 to 1860 to manifest this rising military spirit by appropriate organization, but the efforts
were not always successful. In some cases the prejudices of the whites put every possible obstacle
in the way of the colored young men who attempted to array themselves as soldiers.

The martial spirit is not foreign to the Negro character, as has been abundantly proved in
both ancient and modern times. Williams, in his admirable history of the Negro as well as in
his "Negro Troops in the Rebellion," has shown at considerable length that the Negro has been
a soldier from earliest times, serving in large numbers in the Egyptian army long before the
beginning of the Christian era. We know that without any great modification in character, runaway
slaves developed excellent fighting qualities as Maroons, in Trinidad, British Guiana, St.
Domingo and in Florida. But it was in Hayti that the unmixed Negro rose to the full dignity
of a modern soldier, creating and leading armies, conducting and carrying on war, treating
with enemies and receiving surrenders, complying fully with the rules of civilized warfare,
and evolving finally a Toussaint, whose military genius his most bitter enemies were compelled
to recognize--Toussaint, who to the high qualities of the soldier added also the higher qualities
of statesmanship. With Napoleon, Cromwell and Washington, the three great commanders of modern
times who have joined to high military talent eminent ability in the art of civil government,
we must also class Toussaint L'Ouverteur, the black soldier of the Antilles. Thiers, the prejudiced
attorney of Napoleon, declares nevertheless that Toussaint possessed wonderful talent for government,
and the fact ever remains that under his benign rule all classes were pacified and San Domingo
was made to blossom as the rose. In the armies of Menelek, in the armies of France, in the
armies of England, as well as in the organization of the Zulu and Kaffir tribes the Negro has
shown himself a soldier. If the Afro-American should fail in this particular it will not be
because of any lack of the military element in the African side of his character, or for any
lack of "remorseless military audacity" in the original Negro, as the historian, Williams,
expresses it.

In our own Revolutionary War, the Negro, then but partially civilized, and classed with "vagabonds,"
held everywhere as a slave, and everywhere distrusted, against protest and enactment, made
his way into the patriot army, fighting side by side with his white compatriots from Lexington
to Yorktown. On the morning of April 19th, 1775, when the British re-enforcements were preparing
to leave Boston for Lexington, a Negro soldier who had served in the French war, commanded
a small body of West Cambridge "exempts" and captured Lord Percy's supply train with its military
escort and the officer in command. As a rule the Negro soldiers were distributed among the
regiments, thirty or forty to a regiment, and did not serve in separate organizations. Bishop
J.P. Campbell, of the African Methodist Church, was accustomed to say "both of my grandfathers
served in the Revolutionary War." In Varnum's Brigade, however, there was a Negro regiment
and of it Scribner's history, 1897, says, speaking of the battle of Rhode Island: "None behaved
better than Greene's colored regiment, which three times repulsed the furious charges of veteran
Hessians." Williams says: "The black regiment was one of three that prevented the enemy from
turning the flank of the American army. These black troops were doubtless regarded as the weak
spot of the line, but they were not."

The colony of Massachusetts alone furnished 67,907 men for the Revolutionary War, while all
the colonies together south of Pennsylvania furnished but 50,493, hence the sentiment prevailing
in Massachusetts would naturally be very powerful in determining any question pertaining to
the army. When the country sprang to arms in response to that shot fired at Lexington, the
echoes of which, poetically speaking, were heard around the world, the free Negroes of every
Northern colony rallied with their white neighbors. They were in the fight at Lexington and
at Bunker Hill, but when Washington came to take command of the army he soon gave orders that
no Negroes should be enlisted. He was sustained in this position by a council of war and by
a committee of conference in which were representatives from Rhode Island, Connecticut and
Massachusetts, and it was agreed that Negroes be rejected altogether. The American Negro's
persistency in pressing himself where he is not wanted but where he is eminently needed began
right there. Within six weeks so many colored men applied for enlistment, and those that had
been put out of the army raised such a clamor that Washington changed his policy, and the Negro,
who of all America's population contended for the privilege of shouldering a gun to fight for
American liberty, was allowed a place in the Continental Army, the first national army organized
on this soil, ante-dating the national flag. The Negro soldier helped to evolve the national
standard and was in the ranks of the fighting men over whom it first unfolded its broad stripes
and glittering stars.

It is in place here to mention a legion of free mulattoes and blacks from the Island of St.
Domingo, a full account of whose services is appended to this section, who fought under D'Estaing
with great distinction in the siege of Savannah, their bravery at that time saving the patriot
army from annihilation.

When the Revolutionary War had closed the brave black soldier who had fought to give to the
world a new flag whose every star should be a star of hope to the oppressed, and whose trinity
of colors should symbolize Liberty, Equality and Fraternity, found his race, and in some instances
himself personally, encased in a cruel and stubborn slavery. For the soldier himself special
provision had been made in both Northern and Southern colonies, but it was not always hearty
or effective. The act, though apparently so fair on its face, and interlarded as it is with
patriotic and moral phrases, is nevertheless very narrow and technical, liberating only those
who enlisted by the appointment and direction of their owners, and who were accepted as substitutes,
and who came out of the army with good discharges. It is not hard to see that even under this
act many an ex-soldier might end his days in slavery. The Negro had joined in the fight for
freedom and when victory is won finds himself a slave. He was both a slave and a soldier, too
often, during the war; and now at its close may be both a veteran and a slave.

The second war with Great Britain broke out with an incident in which the Negro in the navy
was especially conspicuous. Three of these were Negroes and one white. The Negroes were finally
dismissed with a reprimand and the white man hanged. Five years later hostilities began on
land and no opposition was manifested toward the employment of Negro soldiers. Laws were passed,
especially in New York, authorizing the formation of regiments of blacks with white officers.
It is remarkable that although the successful insurrection of St. Domingo was so recent, and
many refugees from that country at that time were in the United States, and our country had
also but lately come into possession of a large French element by the Louisiana purchase, there
was no fear of a servile insurrection in this country. The free colored men of New Orleans,
under the proclamation of the narrow-minded Jackson, rallied to the defence of that city and
bore themselves with commendable valor in that useless battle. The war closed, however, and
the glory of the Negro soldier who fought in it soon expired in the dismal gloom of a race-slavery
becoming daily more wide-spread and hopeless.

John Brown's movement was military in character and contemplated the creation of an army of
liberated slaves; but its early suppression prevented any display of Negro valor or genius.
Its leader must ever receive the homage due those who are so moved by the woes of others as
to overlook all considerations of policy and personal risk. As a plot for the destruction of
life it fell far short of the Nat Turner insurrection which swept off fifty-seven persons within
a few hours. In purpose the two episodes agree. They both aim at the liberation of the slave;
both were led by fanatics, the reflex production of the cruelty of slavery, and both ended
in the melancholy death of their heroic leaders. Turner's was the insurrection of the slave
and was not free from the mad violence of revenge; Brown's was the insurrection of the friend
of the slave, and was governed by the high and noble purpose of freedom. The insurrections
of Denmark Vesey in South Carolina, in 1822, and of Nat Turner, in Virginia, in 1831, show
conclusively that the Negro slave possessed the courage, the cunning, the secretiveness and
the intelligence to fight for his freedom. These two attempts were sufficiently broad and intelligent,
when taken into consideration with the enforced ignorance of the slave, to prove the Negro
even in his forlorn condition capable of daring great things. Of the probable thousands who
were engaged in the Denmark Vesey insurrection, only fifteen were convicted, and these died
heroically without revealing anything connected with the plot. Forty-three years later I met
the son of Denmark Vesey, who rejoiced in the efforts of his noble father, and regarded his
death on the gallows as a holy sacrifice to the cause of freedom. Turner describes his fight
as follows: "The white men, eighteen in number, approached us to about one hundred yards, when
one of them fired, and I discovered about half of them retreating. I then ordered my men to
fire and rush on them. The few remaining stood their ground until we approached within fifty
yards, when they fired and retreated. We pursued and overtook some of them whom we thought
we left dead. After pursuing them about two hundred yards, and rising a little hill, I discovered
they were met by another party, and had halted and were reloading their guns. Thinking that
those who retreated first and the party who fired on us at fifty or sixty yards distant had
all only fallen back to meet others with ammunition, as I saw them reloading their guns, and
more coming up than I saw at first, and several of my bravest men being wounded, the others
became panic struck and scattered over the field. The white men pursued and fired on us several
times. Hark had his horse shot under him, and I caught another for him that was running by
me; five or six of my men were wounded, but none left on the field. Finding myself defeated
here, I instantly determined to go through a private way and cross the Nottoway River at Cypress
Bridge, three miles below Jerusalem, and attack that place in the rear, as I expected they
would look for me on the other road, and I had a great desire to get there to procure arms
and ammunition. After going a short distance in this private way, accompanied by about twenty
men, I overtook two or three who told me the others were dispersed in every direction. After
trying in vain to collect a sufficient force to proceed to Jerusalem, I determined to return,
as I was sure they would make back to their old neighborhood, where they would rejoin me, make
new recruits, and come down again. On my way back I called on Mrs. Thomas', Mrs. Spencer's
and several other places. We stopped at Major Ridley's quarters for the night, and being joined
by four of his men, with the recruits made since my defeat, we mustered now about forty strong.

After placing out sentinels, I lay down to sleep, but was quickly aroused by a great racket.
Starting up I found some mounted and others in great confusion, one of the sentinels having
given the alarm that we were about to be attacked. I ordered some to ride around and reconnoitre,
and on their return the others being more alarmed, not knowing who they were, fled in different
ways, so that I was reduced to about twenty again. With this I determined to attempt to recruit,
and proceed on to rally in the neighborhood I had left."[6]

No one can read this account, which is thoroughly supported by contemporary testimony, without
seeing in this poor misguided slave the elements of a vigorous captain. Failing in his efforts
he made his escape and remained for two months in hiding in the vicinity of his pursuers. One
concerned in his prosecution says: "It has been said that he was ignorant and cowardly and
that his object was to murder and rob for the purpose of obtaining money to make his escape.
It is notorious that he was never known to have a dollar in his life, to swear an oath, or
drink a drop of spirits. As to his ignorance, he certainly never had the advantages of education,
but he can read and write (it was taught him by his parents) and for natural intelligence and
quickness of apprehension, is surpassed by few men I have ever seen. As to his being a coward,
his reason as given for not resisting Mr. Phipps shows the decision of his character."[7]

The War of the Rebellion, now called the Civil War, effected the last and tremendous step in
the transition of the American Negro from the position of a slave under the Republic to that
of a soldier in its armies. Both under officers of his own race at Port Hudson and under white
officers on a hundred battlefields, the Negro in arms proved himself a worthy foeman against
the bravest and sternest enemies that ever assailed our nation's flag, and a worthy comrade
of the Union's best defenders. Thirty-six thousand eight hundred and forty-seven of them gave
their lives in that awful conflict. The entire race on this continent and those of allied blood
throughout the world are indebted to the soldier-historian, Honorable George W. Williams, for
the eloquent story of their service in the Union Army, and for the presentation of the high
testimonials to the valor and worthiness of the colored soldier as given by the highest military
authority of the century. From Chapter XVI of his book, "Negro Troops in the Rebellion," the
paragraphs appended at the close of this chapter are quoted.

A.

HOW THE BLACK ST. DOMINGO LEGION SAVED THE PATRIOT ARMY IN THE SIEGE OF SAVANNAH, 1779.

The siege and attempted reduction of Savannah by the combined French and American forces is
one of the events of our revolutionary war, upon which our historians care little to dwell.
Because it reflects but little glory upon the American arms, and resulted so disastrously to
the American cause, its important historic character and connections have been allowed to fade
from general sight; and it stands in the ordinary school text-books, much as an affair of shame.

From this brief sketch the reader is at liberty to infer that the attack was unwise if not
fool-hardy; that the battle was unimportant; and that the conduct of Count D'Estaing immediately
after the battle was unkind, if not unjust, to the Americans. While the paragraph does not
pretend to tell the whole truth, what it does tell ought to be the truth; and this ought to
be told in such a way as to give correct impressions. The attack upon Savannah was well-planned
and thoroughly well considered; and it failed only because the works were so ably defended,
chiefly by British regulars, under brave and skillful officers. In a remote way, which it is
the purpose of this paper to trace, that sanguinary struggle had a wider bearing upon the progress
of liberty in the Western World than any other one battle fought during the Revolution.

But first let us listen to the story of the battle itself. Colonel Campbell with a force of
three thousand men, captured Savannah in December, 1778; and in the January following, General
Prevost arrived, and by March had established a sort of civil government in Georgia, Savannah
being the capital. In April, the American general, Lincoln, feeble in more senses than one,
perhaps, began a movement against Savannah by way of Augusta; but Prevost, aware of his purpose,
crossed into South Carolina and attempted an attack upon Charleston. Finding the city too well
defended, he contented himself with ravaging the plantations over a wide extent of adjacent
country, and returned to Savannah laden with rich spoils, among which were included three thousand
slaves, of whose labor he made good use later.

The patriots of the South now awaited in hope the coming of the French fleet; and on the first
of September, Count D'Estaing appeared suddenly on the coast of Georgia with thirty-three sail,
surprised and captured four British warships, and announced to the government of South Carolina
his readiness to assist in the recapture of Savannah. He urged as a condition, however, that
his ships should not be detained long off so dangerous a coast, as is was now the hurricane
season, and there was neither harbor, road, nor offing for their protection.

By means of small vessels sent from Charleston he effected a landing in ten days, and four
days thereafter, on the 16th, he summoned the garrison to surrender to the arms of France.
Although this demand was made in the name of France for the plain reason that the American
army was not yet upon the spot, the loyalists did not fail to make it a pretext for the accusation
that the French were desirous of making conquests in the war on their own account. In the meantime
Lincoln with the regular troops, was hurrying toward Savannah, and had issued orders for the
militia to rendezvous at the same place; and the militia full of hope of a speedy, if not of
a bloodless conquest, were entering upon this campaign with more than ordinary enthusiasm.

During the time that the fleet had been off the coast, and especially since the landing, the
British had been very busy in putting the city in a high state of defence, and in making efforts
to strengthen the garrison. Lieutenant-colonel Cruger, who had a small force at Sunbury, the
last place in Georgia that had been captured by the British, and Lieutenant-colonel Maitland
who was commanding a considerable force at Beaufort, were ordered to report in haste with their
commands at Savannah. On the 16th, when the summons to surrender was received by Prevost, Maitland
had not arrived, but was hourly expected. Prevost asked for a delay of twenty-four hours to
consider the proposal, which delay was granted; and on that very evening, Maitland with his
force arrived at Dawfuskie. Finding the river in the possession of the French, his course for
a time seemed effectually cut off. By the merest chance he fell in with some Negro fishermen
who informed him of a passage known as Wall's cut, through Scull's creek, navigable for small
boats. A favoring tide and a dense fog enabled him to conduct his command unperceived by the
French, through this route, and thus arrive in Savannah on the afternoon of the 17th, before
the expiration of the twenty-four hours. General Prevost had gained his point; and now believing
himself able to resist an assault, declined the summons to surrender. Two armed ships and four
transports were sunk in the channel of the river below the city, and a boom in the same place
laid entirely across the river; while several small boats were sunk above the town, thus rendering
it impossible for the city to be approached by water.

On the day of the summons to surrender, although the works were otherwise well advanced, there
were not ten cannon mounted in the lines of Savannah; but from that time until the day of assault,
the men of the garrison, with the slaves they had captured, worked day and night to get the
defences of the city in the highest state of excellence. Major Moncrief, chief of the engineers,
is credited with placing in position more than eighty cannons in a short time after the call
to surrender had been received.

The city itself at this time was but a mere village of frame buildings and unpaved streets.
Viewed as facing its assailants, it was protected in its rear, or upon its north side, by the
Savannah river; and on its west side by a thick swamp or morass, which communicated with the
river above the city. The exposed sides were those of the east and south. These faced an open
country which for several miles was entirely clear of woods. This exposed portion of the city
was well protected by an unbroken line of defences extending from the river back to the swamp,
the right and left extremes of the line consisting of strong redoubts, while the centre was
made up of seamen's batteries in front, with impalements and traverses thrown up to protect
the troops from the fire of the besiegers. The whole extent of the works was faced with an
ample abattis.

To be still more particular: there were three redoubts on the right of the line, and on the
right of them quite near the swamp, was a sailor's battery of nine pounders, covered by a company
of the British legion. The left redoubt of these three, was known as the Springhill redoubt;
and proved to be the objective of the final assault. Between it and the centre, was another
sailor's battery behind which were posted the grenadiers of the 60th regiment, with the marines
which had been landed from the warships. On the left of the line near the river were two redoubts,
strongly constructed, with a massy frame of green spongy wood, filled in with sand, and mounted
with heavy cannon. The centre, or space between these groups of redoubts, was composed, as
has been said, of lighter but nevertheless very effective works, and was strongly garrisoned.

Having thus scanned the works, let us now take a glance at the men who are to defend them.
As all of the assaulting forces are not made up of Americans, so all of the defenders are not
foreigners. The centre redoubt of the triplet on the right, was garrisoned by two companies
of militia, with the North Carolina regiment to support them; Captains Roworth and Wylie, with
the provincial corps of King's Rangers, were posted in the redoubt on the right; and Captain
Tawse with his corps of provincial dragons, dismounted, in the left or Springhill redoubt,
supported by the South Caroline regiment. The whole of this force on the right of the line,
was under the command of the gallant Lieutenant-colonel Maitland; and it was this force that
made the charge that barely failed of annihilating the American army. On the left of the line,
the Georgia loyalists garrisoned one of those massy wooden sand-filled redoubts; while in the
centre, cheek by jowl so to speak, with two battalions of the seventy-first regiment, and two
regiments of Hessians, stood the New York Volunteers. All of these corps were ready to act
as circumstances should require and to support any part of the line that might be attacked.
The Negroes who worked on these defences were under the direction of Major Moncrief.

The French troops had landed below the city and were formed facing the British lines, with
the river on their right. On their left, later, assembled the American troops. The final dispositions
were concluded by September 22nd, and were as follows: The American troops under Lincoln formed
the left of the line, their left resting upon the swamp and the entire division facing the
Springhill redoubt and her two sister defences; then came the division of M. de Noailles, composed
of nine hundred men. D'Estaing's division of one thousand men beside the artillery, came next,
and formed the centre of the French army. On D'Estaing's right was Count Dillon's division
of nine hundred men; on the right of Dillon were the powder magazine, cattle depot, and a small
field hospital; on the right of the depot and a little in advance, were Dejean's dragoons,
numbering fifty men; upon the same alignment and to the right of the dragoons were Rouvrais'
Volunteer Chasseurs, numbering seven hundred and fifty men; still further on to the right and
two hundred yards in advance of Rouvrais, was Framais, comanding the Grenadier Volunteers,
and two hundred men besides, his right resting upon the swampy wood that bordered the river,
thus completely closing in the city on the land side. The frigate, La Truite, and two galleys,
lay within cannon shot of the town, and with the aid of the armed store ship, La Bricole, and
the frigate, La Chimere, effectually cut off all communication by water.

On the 23rd, both the French and the Americans opened their trenches; and on the 24th, a small
detachment of the besieged made a sortie against the French. The attack was easily repulsed,
but the French pursuing, approached so near the entrenchments of the enemy that they were fired
upon and several were killed. On the night of the 27th another sortie was made which threw
the besiegers into some confusion and caused the French and Americans to fire upon each other.
Cannonading continued with but little result until October 8th.

The engineers were now of the opinion that a speedy reduction of the city could not be accomplished
by regular approaches; and the naval officers were very anxious about the fleet, both because
of the dangers to which it was exposed from the sea, and also because with so many men ashore
it was in especial danger of being attacked and captured by British men-of-war. These representations
agreeing altogether with D'Estaing's previously expressed wishes to leave the coast as soon
as possible, induced that officer and General Lincoln to decide upon an attempt to storm the
British works at once. It is quite probable that this had been the purpose as a last resort
from the first. The preservation of the fleet was, however, the powerful factor in determining
the time and character of the assault upon Savannah.

On the night of the eighth, Major L'Enfant, with a detachment attempted to set fire to the
abattis in order to clear the way for the assault, but failed to through the dampness of the
wood. The plan of the assault may be quite accurately obtained from the orders given to the
American troops on the evening of the 8th by General Lincoln and from the inferences to be
drawn from the events of the morning of the 9th as they are recorded in history. At least two
of the historians who have left us accounts of the seige, Ramsey and McCall, were present at
the time, and their accounts may be regarded as original authority. General Lincoln's orders
were as follows:

     "Evening Orders. By General Lincoln.
     Watchword--Lewis.

     "The soldiers will be immediately supplied with 40 rounds of
     cartridges, a spare flint, and have their arms in good
     order. The infantry destined for the attack of Savannah will
     be divided into two bodies; first composed of the light
     troops under the command of Colonel Laurens; the second, of
     the continental battalions and the first battalion of the
     Charleston militia, except the grenadiers, who are to join
     the light troops. The whole will parade at 1 o'clock, near
     the left of the line, and march by platoons. The guards of
     the camp will be formed of the invalids, and be charged to
     keep the fires as usual in camp.

     "The cavalry under the command of Count Pulaski, will parade
     at the same time with the infantry and follow the left
     column of the French troops, precede the column of the
     American light troops; they will endeavor to penetrate the
     enemy's lines between the battery on the left of Springhill
     redoubt, and the next towards the river; having effected
     this, will pass to the left towards Yamacraw and secure such
     parties of the enemy as may be lodged in that quarter.

     "The artillery will parade at the same time, follow the
     French artillery, and remain with the corps de reserve until
     they receive further orders.

     "The whole will be ready by the time appointed, with the
     utmost silence and punctuality; and be ready to march the
     instant Count Dillon and General Lincoln shall order.

     "The light troops who are to follow the cavalry, will
     attempt to enter the redoubt on the left of the Springhill,
     by escalade if possible; if not by entrance into it, they
     are to be supported if necessary by the first South Carolina
     regiment; in the meantime the column will proceed with the
     lines to the left of the Springhill battery.

     "The light troops having succeeded against the redoubt will
     proceed to the left and attempt the several works between
     that and the river.

     "The column will move to the left of the French troops,
     taking care not to interfere with them.

     "The light troops having carried the work towards the river
     will form on the left of the column.

     "It is especially forbidden to fire a single gun before the
     redoubts are carried; or for any soldier to quit his rank to
     plunder without an order for that purpose; any who shall
     presume to transgress in either of these respects shall be
     reputed a disobeyer of military orders which is punishable
     with death.

     "The militia of the first and second brigades, General
     Williamson's and the second battalion of the Charleston
     militia will parade immediately under the command of General
     Huger; after draughting five hundred of them the remander of
     them will go into the trenches and put themselves under the
     commanding officer there; with the 500 he will march to the
     left of the enemy's line, remain as near them as he possibly
     can without being seen, until four o'clock in the morning,
     at which time the troops in the trenches will begin an
     attack upon the enemy; he will then advance and make his
     attack as near the river as possible; though this is only
     meant as a feint, yet should a favorable opportunity offer,
     he will improve it and push into the town.

     "In case of a repulse after taking Springhill redoubt, the
     troops will retreat and rally in the rear of redoubt; if it
     cannot be effected that way, it must be attempted by the
     same route at which they entered.

     "The second place of rallying (or the first if the redoubt
     should not be carried) will be at the Jews' burying-ground,
     where the reserve will be placed; if these two halts should
     not be effected, they will retire towards camp.

     "The troops will carry in their hats a piece of white paper
     by which they will be distinguished."

General Huger with his five hundred militia, covered by the river swamp, crept quite close
to the enemy's lines and delivered his attack as directed. Its purpose was to draw attention
to that quarter and if possible cause a weakening of the strength in the left centre of the
line. What its real effect was, there is now no means of knowing.

Count Dillon, who during the siege had been on D'Estaing's right, and who appears to have been
second in command in the French army, in this assault was placed in command of a second attacking
column. His purpose was to move to the right of General Huger, and keeping in the edge of the
swamps along the river, steal past the enemy's batteries on the left, and attack him in the
rear. Bancroft describes the results of his efforts as follows: "The column under Count Dillon,
which was to have attacked the rear of the British lines, became entangled in a swamp of which
it should only have skirted the edge was helplessly exposed to the British batteries and could
not even be formed." Here were the two strong sand-filled redoubts, mounted with heavy cannon,
and these may have been the batteries that stopped Dillon's column. Balch describes it as an
attempt to "penetrate into the city by galloping between the redoubts." It was the anticipation
of the Crimean "Charge of the Light Brigade;" only in this case, no one blundered; it was simply
a desperate chance. Cannon were to the right, left, and front, and the heroic charge proved
in vain; the noble Pole fell, banner[8] in hand, pierced with a mortal wound--another foreign
martyr to our dearly bought freedom.

The cavalry dash having failed, that much of the general plan was blotted out. The feints may
have been understood; it is said a sergeant of the Charleston Grenadiers deserted during the
night of the 8th and gave the whole plan of the attack to General Prevost, so that he knew
just where to strengthen his lines. The feints were effectually checked by the garrison on
the left, twenty-eight of the Americans being killed: while Dillon's column was stopped by
the batteries near the river. This state of affairs allowed the whole of Maitland's force to
protect the Springhill redoubt and that part of the line which was most threatened. The Springhill
redoubt, as has been stated, was occupied by the South Carolina regiment and a corps of dragoons.
This circumstance may account for the fact, that while the three hundred and fifty Charleston
militia occupied a most exposed position in the attacking column, only one man among them was
killed and but six wounded. The battery on the left of this redoubt was garrisoned by grenadiers
and marines.

The attacking column now advanced boldly, under the command of D'Estaing and Lincoln, the Americans
consisting of six hundred continental troops and three hundred and fifty Charleston militia,
being on the left, while the centre and right were made up of the French forces. They were
met with so severe and steady a fire that the head of the column was soon thrown into confusion.
They endured this fire for fifty-five minutes, returning it as best they could, although many
of the men had no opportunity to fire at all. Two American standards and one French standard,
were placed on the British works, but their bearers were instantly killed. It being found impossible
to carry any part of the works, a general retreat was ordered. Of the six hundred continental
troops, more than one-third had fallen, and about one-fifth of the French. The Charleston militia
had not suffered, although they had bravely borne their part in the assault, and it had certainly
been no fault of theirs if their brethren behind the embankments had not fired upon them. Count
D'Estaing had received two wounds, one in the thigh, and being unable to move, was saved by
the young naval lieutenant Truguet. Ramsey gives the losses of the battle as follows: French
soldiers 760; officers 61; Americans 312; total 1133.

As the army began its retreat, Lieutenant-colonel Maitland with the grenadiers and marines,
who were incorporated with the grenadiers, charged its rear with the purpose of accomplishing
its annihilation. It was then that there occurred the most brilliant feat of the day, and one
of the bravest ever performed by foreign troops in the American cause. In the army of D'Estaing
was a legion of black and mulatto freedmen, known as Fontages Legion, commanded by Vicount
de Fontages, a brave and experienced officer. The strength of this legion is given variously
from six hundred to over eight hundred men. This legion met the fierce charge of Maitland and
saved the retreating army.

In an official record prepared in Paris, now before me, are these words: "This legion saved
the army at Savannah by bravely covering its retreat. Among the blacks who rendered signal
services at that time were: Andre, Beauvais, Rigaud, Villatte, Beauregard, Lambert, who latterly
became generals under the convention, including Henri Christophe, the future king of Haiti."
This quotation is taken from a paper secured by the Honorable Richard Rush, our minister to
Paris in 1849, and is preserved in the Pennsylvania Historical Society. Henri Christophe received
a dangerous gunshot wound in Savannah. Balch says in speaking of Fontages at Savannah: "He
commanded there a legion of mulattoes, according to my manuscript, of more than eight hundred
men, and saved the army after the useless assault on the fortifications, by bravely covering
the retreat."

It was this legion that formed the connecting link between the siege of Savannah and the wide
development of republican liberty on the Western continent, which followed early in the present
century. In order to show this connection and the sequences, it will be necessary to sketch
in brief the history of this remarkable body of men, especially that of the prominent individuals
who distinguished themselves at Savannah.

In 1779 the French colony of Saint Domingo was in a state of peace, the population then consisting
of white slave-holders, mulatto and black freedmen (affranchis), and slaves. Count D'Estaing
received orders to recruit men from Saint Domingo for the auxiliary army; and there being no
question of color raised, received into the service a legion of colored freedmen. There had
been for years a colored militia in Saint Domingo, and as early as 1716, the Marquis de Chateau
Morant, then governor of the colony, made one Vincent the Captain-general of all the colored
militia in the vicinity of the Cape. This Captain Vincent died in 1780 at the reputed age of
120 years. He was certainly of great age, for he had been in the siege of Carthegenia in 1697,
was taken prisoner, afterwards liberated by exchange and presented to Louis XIV, and fought
in the German war under Villars. Moreau de St. Mery, in his description of Vincent, incidentally
mentions the Savannah expedition. He says: "I saw him (Vincent) the year preceding his death,
recalling his ancient prowess to the men of color who were enrolling themselves for the expedition
to Savannah; and showing in his descendants who were among the first to offer themselves, that
he had transmitted his valor. Vincent, the good Captain Vincent, had a most pleasing countenance;
and the contrast of his black skin with his white hair produced an effect that always commanded
respect." Madiou, another Haytian historian of the highest respectability says: "A crowd of
young men, black and colored, enlisted with the French troops and left for the continent. They
covered themselves with glory in the siege of Savannah, under the orders of Count D'Estaing."

What effect this experience had upon these volunteers may be inferred from their subsequent
history. Robin says: "These men who contributed their mite toward American independence, had
still their mothers and sisters in slavery; and they themselves were subject to humiliating
discriminations. Should not France have expected from that very moment, that they would soon
use in their own cause, those very arms which they had learned so well to use in the interests
of others?" Madiou says: "On their return to Saint Domingo they demanded for their brothers
the enjoyment of political rights." Beauvais went to Europe and served in the army of France;
but returned to fight for liberty in Hayti, and was Captain-general in 1791; Rigaud, Lambert
and Christophe wrote their names--not in the sand. These are the men who dared to stir Saint
Domingo, under whose influence Hayti became the first country of the New World, after the United
States, to throw off European rule. The connection between the siege of Savannah and the independence
of Hayti is traced, both as to its spirit, and physically, through the black legion that on
that occasion saved the American army. How this connection is traced to the republics of South
America, I will allow a Haytian statesman and man of letters, honored both at home and abroad,
to relate. I translate from a work published in Paris in 1885:

"The illustrious Bolivar, liberator and founder of five republics in South America, undertook
in 1811 his great work of shaking off the yoke of Spain, and of securing the independence of
those immense countries which swelled the pride of the catholic crown--but failed. Stripped
of all resources he took flight and repaired to Jamaica, where he implored in vain of the governor
of that island, the help of England. Almost in despair, and without means, he resolved to visit
Hayti, and appeal to the generosity of the black Republic for the help necessary to again undertake
that work of liberation which had gone to pieces in his hands. Never was there a more solemn
hour for any man--and that man the representative of the destiny of South America! Could he
hope for success? After the English, who had every interest in the destruction of Spanish colonial
power, had treated him with so much indifference, could he hope that a new-born nation, weak,
with microscopic territory, and still guarding anxiously its own ill-recognized independence,
would risk itself in an enterprise hazardous as the one he represented? Full of doubt he came;
but Petion gave him a most cordial welcome.

"Taking the precautions that a legitimate sentiment of prudence dictated at that delicate moment
of our national existence, the government of Port-au-Prince put to the disposition of the hero
of Boyaca and Carabobo, all the elements of which he had need--and Bolivar needed everything.
Men, arms and money were generously given him. Petion did not wish to act openly for fear of
compromising himself with the Spanish government; it was arranged that the men should embark
secretly as volunteers; and that no mention of Hayti should ever be made in any official act
of Venezuela."

Bolivar's first expedition with his Haytian volunteers was a failure; returning to the island
he procured reinforcements and made a second descent which was brilliantly successful. Haytian
arms, money and men turned Bolivar's disasters to victory; and the spirit of Western liberty
marched on to the redemption of South America. The liberation of Mexico and all Central America,
followed as a matter of course; and the ground was thus cleared for the practical application
of that Continentalism enunciated in the Monroe doctrine.

The black men of the Antilles who fought in the siege of Savannah, enjoy unquestionably the
proud historical distinction of being the physical conductors that bore away from our altars
the sacred fire of liberty to rekindle it in their own land; and also of becoming the humble
but important link that served to unite the Two Americas in the bond of enlightened independence.

T.G. STEWARD, U.S.A.

Note:--In the preparation of the above paper I have been greatly assisted by the Honorable
L.J. Janvier, Charge d'affairs d' Haiti, in London; by Right Reverend James Theodore Holly,
bishop of Hayti, and by Messrs. Charles and Frank Rudolph Steward of Harvard University. To
all of these gentlemen my thanks are here expressed. T.G.S.

Paper read at the session of the Negro Academy, Washington, D.C., 1898.

B.

EXTRACTS FROM CHAPTER XVI "NEGRO TROOPS IN THE REBELLION"--WILLIAMS.

Adjutant-General Thomas in a letter to Senator Wilson, May 30, 1864, says: "Experience proves
that they manage heavy guns very well. Their fighting qualities have also been fully tested
a number of times, and I am yet to hear of the first case where they did not fully stand up
to their work."

Major-General James G. Blunt writing of the battle of Honey Springs, Arkansas, said of Negro
troops: "The Negroes (First Colored Regiment) were too much for the enemy, and let me here
say that I never saw such fighting as was done by that Negro regiment. They fought like veterans,
with a coolness and valor that is unsurpassed. They preserved their line perfect throughout
the whole engagement, and although in the hottest of the fight, they never once faltered. Too
much praise cannot be awarded them for their gallantry. The question that Negroes will fight
is settled; besides, they make better soldiers in every respect than any troops I have ever
had under my command."

General Thomas J. Morgan, speaking of the courage of Negro troops in the battle of Nashville,
and its effect upon Major-General George H. Thomas, says: "Those who fell nearest the enemy's
works were colored. General Thomas spoke very feelingly of the sight which met his eye as he
rode over the field, and he confessed that the Negro had fully vindicated his bravery, and
wiped from his mind the last vestige of prejudice and doubt."

FOOTNOTES:

[6] Confession of Nat Turner, Anglo-African Magazine, Vol. 1, p. 338, 1859.

[7] Ibid.

[8] The presentation of this banner by the Moravian Nuns of Bethlehem forms the text of the
poem by Longfellow beginning--

    When the dying flame of day
    Through the chancel shot its ray,
    Far the glimmering tapers shed
    Faint light on the cowled head;
    And the censer burning swung
    Where, before the altar, hung
    The crimson banner, that with prayer
    Had been consecrated there.
    And the nuns' sweet hymn was heard the while,
    Sung low in the dint, mysterious aisle,
      "Take thy banner! may it wave
      Proudly o'er the good and brave;
      When the battle's distant wail
      Breaks the Sabbath of our vale,
      When the cannon's music thrills
      To the hearts of those lone hills.
      When the spear in conflict shakes,
      And the strong lance shivering breaks.

           *       *       *       *       *

      "Take thy banner! and if e'er
      Thou should'st press the soldier's bier
      And the muffled drum shall beat
      To the tread of mournful feet,
      Then the crimson flag shall be
      Martial cloak and shroud for thee."
    The warrior took that banner proud,
    And it was his martial cloak and shroud.

CHAPTER III.

THE BLACK REGULARS OF THE ARMY OF INVASION IN THE SPANISH-AMERICAN WAR.

     Organization of Negro Regiments in the Regular Army--First
     Move in the War--Chickamauga and Tampa--Note.

Altogether the colored soldiers in the Civil War took part and sustained casualties in two
hundred and fifty-one different engagements and came out of the prolonged conflict with their
character so well established that up to the present hour they have been able to hold an important
place in the Regular Army of the United States. No regiment of colored troops in the service
was more renowned at the close of the war or has secured a more advantageous position in the
history of that period than the Fifty-fourth Massachusetts Regiment of Infantry. Recruited
among the free colored people of the North, many of them coming from Ohio, it was remarkable
for the intelligence and character of its men, and for the high purpose and noble bearing of
its officers. Being granted but half the pay per month given to white soldiers, the regiment
to a man, for eighteen months refused to receive one cent from the Government. This was a spectacle
that the country could not longer stand. One thousand volunteers fighting the country's battles
without any compensation rather than submit to a discrimination fatal to their manhood, aroused
such a sentiment that Congress was compelled to put them on the pay-roll on equal footing with
all other soldiers. By them the question of the black soldier's pay and rations was settled
in the Army of the United States for all time. Every soldier, indeed every man in the army,
except the chaplain, now draws the pay of his grade without regard to color, hair or race.
By the time these lines reach the public eye it is to be hoped that even the chaplain will
be lifted from his exceptional position and given the pay belonging to his rank as captain.

(February 2, 1901, the bill became a law giving chaplains the full pay of their grade.)

More than 185,000 blacks, all told, served in the army of the Union during the War of the Rebellion,
and the losses from their ranks of men killed in battle were as heavy as from the white troops.
Their bravery was everywhere recognized, and in the short time in which they were employed,
several rose to commissions.

Perhaps the most notable act performed by a colored American during the war was the capture
and delivery to the United States forces of the rebel steamer Planter, by Robert Smalls, of
Charleston. Smalls was employed as pilot on the Planter, a rebel transport, and was entirely
familiar with the harbors and inlets, of which there are many, on the South Atlantic coast.
On May 13, 1862, the Planter came to her wharf in Charleston, and at night all the white officers
went ashore, leaving a colored crew of eight men on board in charge of Smalls. Smalls hastily
got his wife and three children on board, and at 2 o'clock on the morning of the 14th steamed
out into the harbor, passing the Confederate forts by giving the proper signals, and when fairly
out of reach, as daylight came, he ran up the Stars and Stripes and headed his course directly
toward the Union fleet, into whose hands he soon surrendered himself and his ship. The act
caused much favorable comment and Robert Smalls became quite a hero. His subsequent career
has been in keeping with the high promise indicated by this bold dash for liberty, and his
name has received additional lustre from gallant services performed in the war after, and in
positions of distinguished honor and responsibility in civil life. The Planter, after being
accepted by the United States, became a despatch boat, and Smalls demonstrating by skill and
bravery his fitness for the position, was finally, as an act of imperative justice, made her
commander.

With the close of the Revolutionary War the prejudice against a standing army was so great
that the army was reduced to scarce six hundred men, and the Negro as a soldier dropped out
of existence. When the War of 1812 closed sentiment with regard to the army had made but little
advancement, and consequently no place in the service was left for Negro soldiers. In the navy
the Negro still lingered, doing service in the lower grades, and keeping up the succession
from the black heroes of '76 and 1812. When the War of the Rebellion closed the country had
advanced so far as to see both the necessity of a standing army, and the fitness of the Negro
to form a part of the army; and from this position it has never receded, and if the lessons
of the Cuban campaign are rightly heeded, it is not likely to recede therefrom. The value of
the Regular Army and of the Black Regular were both proven to an absolute demonstration in
that thin line of blue that compelled the surrender of Santiago.

In July, 1866, Congress passed an act adding eight new regiments of infantry and four of calvary
to the nineteen regiments of infantry and six of calvary of which those arms of the Regular
Army were at that time composed, thus making the permanent establishment to consist of five
regiments of artillery, twenty-seven of infantry, and ten of cavalry. Of the eight new infantry
regiments to be formed, four were to be composed of colored men; and of the four proposed for
the calvary arm, two were to be of colored men. The President was empowered by the act also
to appoint a chaplain for each of the six regiments of colored troops. Under this law the Ninth
and Tenth Cavalry Regiments were organized.

In 1869 the infantry suffered further reduction, and the four colored regiments organized under
the law of 1866, numbered respectively the 38th, 39th, 40th and 41st, were consolidated into
two regiments, and numbered the 24th and 25th--the 38th and 41st becoming the former, and the
39th and 40th the latter. Previous to this consolidation the numbers between the old 19th and
the 38th, which was the lowest number borne by the new colored regiments, were filled in by
dividing the old three batallion regiments in the service, and making of the second and third
batallions of these regiments new regiments. The whole infantry arm, by the law of 1869, was
compressed into twenty-five regiments, and in that condition the army remains to the present,
to wit:[9] Ten regiments of cavalry, five of artillery and twenty-five of infantry.

The number of men in a company and the number of companies in a regiment have varied greatly
within the past few months. Just previous to the breaking out of the war a regiment of infantry
consisted of eight companies of about sixty men each, and two skeletonized companies and the
band--the whole organization carrying about five hundred men; now a regiment of infantry consists
of twelve companies of 106 men each and with the non-commissioned staff numbers twelve hundred
and seventy-four men.

Since 1869, or for a period of thirty years, the colored American has been represented in the
Regular Army by these four regiments and during this time these regiments have borne more than
their proportionate share in hard frontier service, including all sorts of Indian campaigning
and much severe guard and fatigue duty. The men have conducted themselves so worthily as to
receive from the highest military authority the credit of being among our best troops. General
Miles and General Merritt,[10] with others who were active leaders in the Indian wars of the
West, have been unstinting in their praise of the valor and skill of colored soldiers. They
proved themselves not only good individual fighters, but in some instances non-commissioned
officers exhibited marked coolness and ability in command.[11]

From 1869 to the beginning of the Hispano-American War there were in the Regular Army at some
time, as commissioned officers, the following colored men, all from West Point, all serving
with the cavalry, and none rising higher than first-lieutenant, viz: John H. Alexander, H.O.
Flipper and Charles Young. H.O. Flipper was dismissed; Alexander died, and Young became major
in the volunteer service, and was placed in command of the Ninth Battalion of Ohio Volunteers,
discharging the duties of his position in such a manner as to command general satisfaction
from his superior officers.[12]

These colored men while cadets at West Point endured hardships disgraceful to their country,
and when entering the army were not given that cordial welcome by their brother officers, becoming
an "officer and gentleman," both to give and to receive. Of course there were some noble exceptions,
and this class of officers seems to be steadily increasing, so that now it is no longer necessary,
even on the ground of expediency, to strive to adhere to the rule of only white men for army
officers. Of Alexander and Young it can be said they have acquitted themselves well, the former
enjoying the confidence and esteem of his associates up to the time of his early death--an
event which caused deep regret--and the latter so impressing the Governor of his State and
the President as to secure for himself the responsible position which he, at the time of this
writing, so worthily fills. Besides these line officers, five colored chaplains have been appointed,
all of whom have served successfully, one, however, being dismissed by court-martial after
many years of really meritorious service, an event to be regretted, but by no means without
parallel.

Brief sketches of the history of these four colored regiments, as well as of the others, have
been recently made by members of them and published in the Journal of the Military Service
Institution and subsequently in a large and beautiful volume edited by Brigadier-General Theo.
F. Rodenbough and Major William L. Haskin, published by the Institution and designated "The
Army of the United States," a most valuable book of reference. From the sketches contained
therein the following summary is given.

The Twenty-fourth Infantry was organized, as we have seen, from the 38th and 41st Regiments,
these two regiments being at the time distributed in New Mexico, Louisiana and Texas, and the
regiment remained in Texas from the time of its organization in 1869 until 1880. Its first
Lieutenant-Colonel was William R. Shafter. It was from this regiment and the Tenth Cavalry
that the escort of Paymaster Wham was selected which made so brave a stand against a band of
robbers that attacked the paymaster that several of them were given medals for distinguished
gallantry, and others certificates of merit. The Twenty-fifth Infantry was organized in New
Orleans out of the 39th, that was brought from North Carolina for that purpose, and the 40th,
that was then in Louisiana. It was organized during the month of April, 1869, and early in
1870 moved to Texas, where it remained ten years. In 1880 it moved to the Department of Dakota
and remained in the Northwest until it took the road for the Cuban war.

The Ninth Cavalry was organized in New Orleans during the winter of 1866-67. Its first Colonel
was Edward Hatch and its first Lieutenant-Colonel Wesley Merritt. From 1867 to 1890 it was
in almost constant Indian warfare, distinguishing itself by daring and hardihood. From 1890
to the opening of the Cuban war it remained in Utah and Nebraska, engaging in but one important
campaign, that against hostile Sioux during the winter of 1890-91, in which, says the historian:
"The regiment was the first in the field, in November, and the last to leave, late in the following
March, after spending the winter, the latter part of which was terrible in its severity, under
canvas."

The Tenth Calvary was organized under the same law as was the Ninth, and at the same time.
Its place of rendezvous was Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, and its first Colonel, Benjamin H. Grierson.
This regiment was the backbone of the Geronimo campaign force, and it finally succeeded in
the capture of that wily warrior. The regiment remained in the Southwest until 1893, when it
moved to Montana, and remained there until ordered to Chickamauga for the war.

These four regiments were finely officered, well drilled and well experienced in camp and field,
particularly the cavalry regiments, and it was of them that General Merritt said: "I have always
found them brave in battle." With such training and experience they were well fitted to take
their place in that selected host of fighting men which afterwards became the Fifth Army Corps,
placed under command of Major-General William R. Shafter, the first Lieutenant-Colonel of the
Twenty-fourth Infantry.

When the news of the blowing up of our great battleship Maine, in the harbor of Havana, with
the almost total loss of her crew, flashed over the country, carrying sadness to hundreds of
homes, and arousing feelings of deepest indignation whether justly or unjustly, it was easy
to predict that we should soon be involved in war with Spain. The Cuban question, already chronic,
had by speeches of Senators Thurston and Proctor been brought to such a stage of aggravation
that it needed only an incident to set the war element in motion. That incident was furnished
by the destruction of the Maine. Thenceforth there was no power in the land sufficient to curb
the rapidly swelling tide of popular hate, which manifested itself in the un-Christian but
truly significant mottoes: "Remember the Maine," "Avenge the Maine," and "To hell with Spain."
These were the outbreathings of popular fury, and they represented a spirit quite like that
of the mob, which was not to be yielded to implicitly, but which could not be directly opposed.

The President did all in his power to stay this element of our population and to lead the country
to a more befitting attitude. He and his advisers argued that Spain was to be resisted, and
fought if necessary, not on account of the Maine, not in the spirit of revenge, but in the
interest of humanity, and upon principles sanctioned even by our holy religion. On behalf of
the starving reconcentrados, and in aid of the noble Cuban patriot, we might justly arm and
equip ourselves for the purpose of driving Spanish rule from the Western Hemisphere.

This view appealed to all lovers of freedom, to all true patriots, and to the Christian and
philanthropist. It also afforded a superb opportunity for the old leaders in the South, who
were not entirely relieved from the taint of secession, to come out and reconsecrate themselves
to the country and her flag. Hence, Southern statesmen, who were utterly opposed to Negroes
or colored men having any share in ruling at home, became very enthusiastic over the aspirations
of the colored Cuban patriots and soldiers. The supporters, followers, and in a sense, devotees
of Maceo and Gomez, were worthy of our aid. The same men, actuated by the same principles,
in the Carolinas, in Louisiana or in Mississippi, would have been pronounced by the same authorities
worthy of death.

The nation was, however, led into war simply to liberate Cuba from the iniquitous and cruel
yoke of Spain, and to save thousands of impoverished Cubans from death by starvation. Great
care was taken not to recognize the Cuban government in any form, and it seemed to be understood
that we were to do the fighting both with our navy and our army, the Cubans being invited to
co-operate with us, rather than that we should co-operate with them. We were to be the liberators
and saviors of a people crushed to the very gates of death. Such was the platform upon which
our nation stood before the world when the first orders went forth for the mobilization of
its forces for war. It was a position worthy our history and character and gave to our national
flag a prouder meaning than ever. Its character as the emblem of freedom shone out with awe-inspiring
brilliancy amid the concourse of nations.

While there was such a clamor for war in the newspapers and in the public speeches of statesmen,
both in and out of Congress, it is remarkable that the utmost serenity prevailed in the army.
Officers and men were ready to fight if the stern necessity came, but they were not so eager
for the death-game as were the numerous editors' whose papers were getting out extras every
half-hour. It was argued by the officers of rank that the Maine incident added nothing whatever
to the Cuban question; that it did not involve the Spanish Government; that the whole subject
might well be left to arbitration, and full respect should be given to Spain's disclaimer.
It was also held that to rush into a war in order to prevent a few people from starving, might
not relieve them, and at the same time would certainly cost the lives of many innocent men.
Spain was revising her policy, and the benevolence of the United States would soon bring bread
to the door of every needy Cuban. Such remarks and arguments as these were used by men who
had fought through one war and were ready to fight, through another if they must; but who were
willing to go to any reasonable length to prevent it; and yet the men who used such arguments
beforehand and manifested such a shrinking from carnage, are among those to whom the short
Spanish War brought distinction and promotion. To their honor be it said that the war which
gave them fresh laurels was in no sense brought about through their instigation.

As chaplain of the Twenty-fifth Infantry, stationed with the headquarters of the regiment at
Fort Missoula, where we had been for ten years, the call for the war met me in the midst of
my preparations for Easter service. One young man, then Private Thomas C. Butler, who was practicing
a difficult solo for the occasion, before the year closed became a Second Lieutenant, having
distinguished himself in battle; the janitor, who cared for my singing books, and who was my
chief school teacher, Private French Payne, always polite and everywhere efficient, met his
death from a Spanish bullet while on the reserve before bloody El Caney.

It was on a bright day during the latter part of March and near the close of the day as I was
looking out of the front window of my quarters that I saw the trumpeter of the guard come out
of the Adjutant's office with a dispatch in his hand and start on a brisk run toward the quarters
of the Commanding Officer. I immediately divined what was in the wind, but kept quiet. In a
few minutes "officers' call" was sounded, and all the officers of the post hastened to the
administration building to learn the news.

When all were assembled the Commanding Officer desired to know of each company officer how
much time he would need to have his company ready to move from the post to go to a permanent
station elsewhere, and from all officers how much time they would require to have their families
ready to quit the station. The answers generally were that all could be ready within a week.
It was finally agreed, however, to ask for ten days.

Immediately the work of preparation began, although none knew where the regiment was to go.
At this time the order, so far as it was understood at the garrison, was, that two companies
were to go to Key West, Florida, and the other companies of the regiment to Dry Tortugas. One
officer, Lieutenant V.A. Caldell, early saw through the haze and said: "It means that we will
all eventually land in Cuba." While we were packing, rumors flew through the garrison, as indeed
through the country, thick and fast, and our destination was changed three or four times a
day. One hour we would be going to Key West, the next to St. Augustine, the next to Tortugas.
In this confusion I asked an old frontier officer where he thought we would really go. Regarding
himself as an indicator and always capable of seeing the amusing side of a subject, he replied:
"I p'int toward Texas." Such was the state of uncertainty as to destination, and yet all the
time the greatest activity prevailed in making ready for departure. Finally definite orders
came that we were to store our furniture in the large gymnasium hall at the post and prepare
to go in camp at Chickamauga Park, Georgia.

Our regiment was at the time stationed as follows: Headquarters, four companies and the band
at Fort Missoula; two companies at Fort Harrison, near Helena, and two companies at Fort Assinniboine,
all in Montana. The arrangements contemplated moving the regiment in two sections, one composed
of the Missoula troops to go over the Northern Pacific Railroad, the other of the Fort Harrison
and Fort Assinniboine troops to go over the Great Northern Railroad, all to arrive in St. Paul
about the same time.

On the 10th of April, Easter Sunday, the battalion at Fort Missoula marched out of post quite
early in the morning, and at Bitter Root Station took the cars for their long journey. Officers
and men were all furnished sleeping accommodations on the train. Arriving in the city of Missoula,
for the gratification of the citizens and perhaps to avoid strain on the bridge crossing the
Missoula River, the men were disembarked from the train and marched through the principal streets
to the depot, the citizens generally turning out to see them off. Many were the compliments
paid officers and men by the good people of Missoula, none perhaps more pleasing than that
furnished by a written testimonial to the regret experienced at the departure of the regiment,
signed by all the ministers of the city.

As the Twenty-fifth was the first regiment to move in the preparation for war, its progress
from Montana to Chickamauga was a marked event, attracting the attention of both the daily
and illustrated press. All along the route they were greeted with enthusiastic crowds, who
fully believed the war with Spain had begun. In St. Paul, in Chicago, in Terre Haute, in Nashville,
and in Chattanooga the crowds assembled to greet the black regulars who were first to bear
forward the Starry Banner of Union and Freedom against a foreign foe. What could be more significant,
or more fitting, than that these black soldiers, drilled up to the highest standard of modern
warfare, cool, brave and confident, themselves a proof of American liberty, should be called
first to the front in a war against oppression? Their martial tread and fearless bearing proclaimed
what the better genius of our great government meant for all men dwelling beneath the protection
of its honored flag.

As the Twenty-fifth Infantry was the first regiment to leave its station, so six companies
of it were first to go into camp on the historic grounds of Chickamauga. Two companies were
separated from the regiment at Chattanooga and forwarded to Key West where they took station
under the command of Lieutenant-Colonel A.S. Daggett. The remaining six companies, under command
of Colonel A.S. Burt, were conducted by General Boynton to a choice spot on the grounds, where
they pitched camp, their tents being the first erected in that mobilization of troops which
preceded the Cuban invasion, and theirs being really the first camp of the war.

Soon came the Ninth Cavalry, the Tenth Cavalry and the Twenty-fourth Infantry. While these
were assembling there arrived on the ground also many white regiments, cavalry, artillery and
infantry, and it was pleasing to see the fraternity that prevailed among black and white regulars.
This was especially noticeable between the Twenty-fifth and Twelfth. In brigading the regiments
no attention whatever was paid to the race or color of the men. The black infantry regiments
were placed in two brigades, and the black cavalry likewise, and they can be followed through
the fortunes of the war in the official records by their regimental numbers. During their stay
in Chickamauga, and at Key West and Tampa, the Southern newspapers indulged in considerable
malicious abuse of colored soldiers, and some people of this section made complaints of their
conduct, but the previous good character of the regiments and the violent tone of the accusations,
taken together with the well-known prejudices of the Southern people, prevented their complaints
from having very great weight. The black soldiers held their place in the army chosen for the
invasion of Cuba, and for that purpose were soon ordered to assemble in Tampa.

From the 10th of April, when the war movement began with the march of the Twenty-fifth Infantry
out of its Montana stations, until June 14th, when the Army of Invasion cleared Tampa for Cuba--not
quite two months--the whole energy of the War Department had been employed in preparing the
army for the work before it. The beginning of the war is officially given as April 21st, from
which time onward it was declared a state of war existed between Spain and the United States,
but warlike movements on our side were begun fully ten days earlier, and begun with a grim
definiteness that presaged much more than a practice march or spring manoeuver.

After arriving at Chickamauga all heavy baggage was shipped away for storage, and all officers
and men were required to reduce their field equipage to the minimum; the object being to have
the least possible amount of luggage, in order that the greatest possible amount of fighting
material might be carried. Even with all this preparation going on some officers were indulging
the hope that the troops might remain in camps, perfecting themselves in drill, until September,
or October, before they should be called upon to embark for Cuba. This, however, was not to
be, and it is perhaps well that it was not, as the suffering and mortality in the home camps
were almost equal to that endured by the troops in Cuba. The suffering at home, also, seemed
more disheartening, because it appeared to be useless, and could not be charged to any important
changes in conditions or climate. It was perhaps in the interest of humanity that this war,
waged for humanity's sake, should have been pushed forward from its first step to its last,
with the greatest possible dispatch, and that just enough men on our side were sent to the
front, and no more. It is still a good saying that all is well that ends well.

The Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park, the place where our troops assembled
on their march to Cuba, beautiful by nature, especially in the full season of spring when the
black soldiers arrived there, and adorned also by art, has, next to Gettysburg, the most prominent
place among the historic battle-fields of the Civil War. As a park it was established by an
act of Congress approved August 19, 1890, and contains seven thousand acres of rolling land,
partly cleared and partly covered with oak and pine timber. Beautiful broad roads wind their
way to all parts of the ground, along which are placed large tablets recording the events of
those dreadful days in the autumn of 1863, when Americans faced Americans in bloody, determined
strife. Monuments, judiciously placed, speak with a mute eloquence to the passer-by and tell
of the valor displayed by some regiment or battery, or point to the spot where some lofty hero
gave up his life. The whole park is a monument, however, and its definite purpose is to preserve
and suitably mark "for historical and professional military study the fields of some of the
most remarkable manoeuvres and most brilliant fighting in the War of the Rebellion." The battles
commemorated by this great park are those of Chickamauga, fought on September 19-20, and the
battles around Chattanooga, November 23-25, 1863. The battle of Chickamauga was fought by the
Army of the Cumberland, commanded by Major-General W.S. Rosecrans, on the Union side, and the
Army of Tennessee, commanded by General Braxton Bragg, on the side of the Confederates. The
total effective strength of the Union forces in this battle was little less than 60,000 men,
that of the Confederates about 70,000. The total Union loss was 16,179 men, a number about
equal to the army led by Shatter against Santiago. Of the number reported as lost, 1,656 were
killed, or as many as were lost in killed, wounded and missing in the Cuban campaign. The Confederate
losses were 17,804, 2,389 being killed, making on both sides a total killed of 4,045, equivalent
to the entire voting population of a city of over twenty thousand inhabitants. General Grant,
who commanded the Union forces in the battles around Chattanooga, thus sums up the results:
"In this battle the Union army numbered in round figures about 60,000 men; we lost 752 killed,
4,713 wounded and 350 captured or missing. The rebel loss was much greater in the aggregate,
as we captured and sent North to be rationed there over 6,100 prisoners. Forty pieces of artillery,
over seven thousand stand of small arms, many caissons, artillery wagons and baggage wagons
fell into our hands. The probabilities are that our loss in killed was the heavier as we were
the attacking party. The enemy reported his loss in killed at 361, but as he reported his missing
at 4,146, while we held over 6,000 of them as prisoners, and there must have been hundreds,
if not thousands, who deserted, but little reliance can be placed upon this report."

In the battle of Chickamauga, when "four-fifths of the Union Army had crumbled into wild confusion,"
and Rosecrans was intent only on saving the fragments, General Thomas, who had commanded the
Federal left during the two days' conflict, and had borne the brunt of the fight, still held
his position. To him General James A. Garfield reported. General Gordon Granger, without orders,
brought up the reserves, and Thomas, replacing his lines, held the ground until nightfall,
when he was joined by Sheridan. Bragg won and held the field, but Thomas effectually blocked
his way to Chattanooga, securing to himself immediately the title of the "Rock of Chickamauga."
His wonderful resolution stayed the tide of a victory dearly bought and actually won, and prevented
the victors from grasping the object for which they had fought. In honor of this stubborn valor,
and in recognition of this high expression of American tenacity, the camp established in Chickamauga
Park by the assembling army was called Camp George H. Thomas.

The stay of the colored regulars at Camp George H. Thomas was short, but it was long enough
for certain newspapers of Chattanooga to give expression to their dislike to negro troops in
general and to those in their proximity especially. The Washington Post, also, ever faithful
to its unsavory trust, lent its influence to this work of defamation. The leading papers, however,
both of Chattanooga and the South generally, spoke out in rather conciliatory and patronizing
tones, and "sought to restrain the people of their section from compromising their brilliant
display of patriotism by contemptuous flings at the nation's true and tried soldiers.

The 24th Infantry and the 9th Cavalry soon left for Tampa, Florida, whither they were followed
by the 10th Cavalry and the 25th Infantry, thus bringing the entire colored element of the
army together to prepare for embarkation. The work done at Tampa is thus described officially
by Lieutenant-Colonel Daggett in general orders addressed to the 25th Infantry, which he at
that time commanded. On August 11th, with headquarters near Santiago, after the great battles
had been fought and won, he thus reviewed the work of the regiment: "Gathered from three different
stations, many of you strangers to each other, you assembled as a regiment for the first time
in more than twenty-eight years, on May 7, 1898, at Tampa, Florida. There you endeavored to
solidify and prepare yourselves, as far as the oppressive weather would permit, for the work
that appeared to be before you." What is here said of the 25th might have been said with equal
propriety of all the regular troops assembled at Tampa.

In the meantime events were ripening with great rapidity. The historic "first gun" had been
fired, and the United States made the first naval capture of the war on April 22, the coast
trader Buena Ventura having surrendered to the American gunboat Nashville. On the same day
the blockade of Cuban ports was declared and on the day following a call was issued for 125,000
volunteers. On May 20th the news that a Spanish fleet under command of Admiral Cervera had
arrived at Santiago was officially confirmed, and a speedy movement to Cuba was determined upon.

Almost the entire Regular Army with several volunteer regiments were organized into an Army
of Invasion and placed under the command of Major-General W.R. Shafter with orders to prepare
immediately for embarkation, and on the 7th and 10th of June this army went on board the transports.
For seven days the troops lay cooped up on the vessels awaiting orders to sail, a rumor having
gained circulation that certain Spanish gunboats were hovering around in Cuban waters awaiting
to swoop down upon the crowded transports. While the Army of Invasion was sweltering in the
ships lying at anchor off Port Tampa, a small body of American marines made a landing at Guantanamo,
and on June 12th fought the first battle between Americans and Spaniards on Cuban soil. In
this first battle four Americans were killed. The next day, June 13th, General Shafter's army
containing the four colored regiments, excepting those left behind to guard property, sailed
for Cuba.[13]

The whole number of men and officers in the expedition, including those that came on transports
from Mobile, amounted to about seventeen thousand men, loaded on twenty-seven transports. The
colored regiments were assigned to brigades as follows: The Ninth Cavalry was joined with the
Third and Sixth Cavalry and placed under command of Colonel Carrol; the Tenth Cavalry was joined
with the Rough Riders and First Regular Cavalry and fell under the command of General Young;
the Twenty-fourth Infantry was joined with the Ninth and Thirteenth Infantry and the brigade
placed under command of Colonel Worth and assigned to the division commanded by General Kent,
who, until his promotion as Brigadier-General of Volunteers, had been Colonel of the Twenty-fourth;
the Twenty-fifth Infantry was joined with the First and Fourth Infantry and the brigade placed
under command of Colonel Evans Miles, who had formerly been Major of the Twenty-fifth. All
of the colored regiments were thus happily placed so that they should be in pleasant soldierly
competition with the very best troops the country ever put in the field, and this arrangement
at the start proves how strongly the black regular had entrenched himself in the confidence
of our great commanders.

Thus sailed from Port Tampa the major part of our little army of trained and seasoned soldiers,
representative of the skill and daring of the nation.[14] In physique, almost every man was
an athlete, and while but few had seen actual war beyond an occasional skirmish with Indians,
all excepting the few volunteers, had passed through a long process of training in the various
details of marching, camping and fighting in their annual exercises in minor tactics. For the
first time in history the nation is going abroad, by its army, to occupy the territory of a
foreign foe, in a contest with a trans-Atlantic power. The unsuccessful invasions of Canada
during the Revolutionary War and the War of 1812 can hardly be brought in comparison with this
movement over sea. The departure of Decatur with his nine ships of war to the Barbary States
had in view only the establishment of proper civil relations between those petty, half-civilized
countries and the United States. The sailing of General Shafter's army was only one movement
in a comprehensive war against the Kingdom of Spain. More than a month earlier Commodore Dewey,
acting under orders, had destroyed a fleet of eleven war ships in the Philippines. The purpose
of the war was to relieve the Cubans from an inhumane warfare with their mother country, and
to restore to that unhappy island a stable government in harmony with the ideas of liberty
and justice.

Up to the breaking out of the Spanish War the American policy with respect to Europe had been
one of isolation. Some efforts had been made to consolidate the sentiment of the Western world,
but it had never been successful. The fraternity of the American Republics and the attempted
construction of a Pan-American policy had been thus far unfulfilled dreams. Canada was much
nearer to the United States, geographically and socially, than even Mexico, although the latter
is a republic. England, in Europe, was nearer than Brazil. The day came in 1898, when the United
States could no longer remain in political seclusion nor bury herself in an impossible federation.
Washington's advice against becoming involved in European affairs, as well as the direct corrollary
of the Monroe Doctrine, were to be laid aside and the United States was to speak out to the
world. The business of a European nation had become our business; in the face of all the world
we resolved to invade her territory in the interest of humanity; to face about upon our own
traditions and dare the opinions and arms of the trans-Atlantic world by openly launching upon
the new policy of armed intervention in another's quarrel.

While the troops were mobilizing at Tampa preparatory to embarking for Cuba the question came
up as to why there were no colored men in the artillery arm of the service, and the answer
given by a Regular Army officer was, that the Negro had not brains enough for the management
of heavy guns. It was a trifling assertion, of course, but at this period of the Negro's history
it must not be allowed to pass unnoticed. We know that white men of all races and nationalities
can serve big guns, and if the Negro cannot, it must be because of some marked difference between
him and them. The officer said it was a difference in "brains," i.e., a mental difference.
Just how the problem of aiming and firing a big gun differs from that of aiming and firing
small arms is not so easily explained. In both, the questions of velocity, gravitation, wind
and resistance are to be considered and these are largely settled by mechanism, the adjustment
of which is readily learned; hence the assumption that a Negro cannot learn it is purely gratuitous.
Several of the best rifle shots known on this continent are Negroes; and it was a Negro who
summerized the whole philosophy of rifle shooting in the statement that it all consists in
knowing where to aim, and how to pull--in knowing just what value to assign to gravitation,
drift of the bullet and force of the wind, and then in being able to pull the trigger of the
piece without disturbing the aim thus judiciously determined. This includes all there is in
the final science and art of firing a rifle. If the Negro can thus master the revolver, the
carbine and the rifle, why may he not master the field piece or siege gun?

But an ounce of fact in such things is worth more than many volumes of idle speculation, and
it is remarkable that facts so recent, so numerous, and so near at hand, should escape the
notice of those who question the Negro's ability to serve the artillery organizations. Negro
artillery, both light and heavy, fought in fifteen battles in the Civil War with average effectiveness;
and some of those who fought against them must either admit the value of the Negro artilleryman
or acknowledge their own inefficiency. General Fitz-Hugh Lee failed to capture a Negro battery
after making most vigorous attempts to that end. This attempt to raise a doubt as to the Negro's
ability to serve in the artillery arm is akin to, and less excusable, than that other groundless
assertion, that Negro officers cannot command troops, an assertion which in this country amounts
to saying that the United States cannot command its army. Both of these assertions have been
emphatically answered in fact, the former as shown above, and the latter as will be shown later
in this volume. These assertions are only temporary covers, behind which discomfitted and retreating
prejudice is able to make a brief stand, while the black hero of five hundred battle-fields,
marches proudly by, disdaining to lower his gun to fire a shot on a foe so unworthy. When the
Second Massachusetts Volunteers sent up their hearty cheers of welcome to the gallant old Twenty-fifth,
as that solid column fresh from El Caney swung past its camp, I remarked to Sergeant Harris,
of the Twenty-fifth: "Those men think you are soldiers." "They know we are soldiers," was his
reply. When the people of this country, like the members of that Massachusetts regiment, come
to know that its black men in uniform are soldiers, plain soldiers, with the same interests
and feelings as other soldiers, of as much value to the government and entitled from it to
the same attention and rewards, then a great step toward the solution of the prodigious problem
now confronting us will have been taken.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Note.--"I had often heard that the physique of the men of
     our regular army was very remarkable, but the first time I
     saw any large body of them, which was at Tampa, they
     surpassed my highest expectations. It is not, however, to be
     wondered at that, for every recruit who is accepted, on the
     average thirty-four are rejected, and that, of course, the
     men who present themselves to the recruiting officer already
     represent a physical 'elite'; but it was very pleasant to
     see and be assured, as I was at Tampa, by the evidences of
     my own eyes and the tape measure, that there is not a guard
     regiment of either the Russian, German or English army, of
     whose remarkable physique we have heard so much, that can
     compare physically, not with the best of our men, but simply
     with the average of the men of our regular army."--Bonsal.

FOOTNOTES:

[9] The army has been reorganized since. See Register.

[10] "My experience in this direction since the war is beyond that of any officer of my rank
in the army. For ten years I had the honor of being lieutenant-colonel of the Ninth Cavalry,
and during most of that service I commanded garrisons composed in part of the Ninth Cavalry
and other organizations of cavalry and infantry. I have always found the colored race represented
in the army obedient, intelligent and zealous in the discharge of duty, brave in battle, easily
disciplined, and most efficient in the care of their horses, arms and equipments. The non-commissioned
officers have habitually shown the qualities for control in their position which marked them
as faithful and sensible in the discharge of their duties. I take pleasure in bearing witness
as above in the interest of the race you represent." WESLEY MERRITT.

[11] See chapter on Colored Officers.

[12] Young is now captain in the Ninth Cavalry.--T.G.S.

[13] The colored regulars were embarked on the following named ships: The 9th Cavalry on the
Miami, in company with the 6th Infantry; the 10th Cavalry on the Leona, in company with the
1st Cavalry; the 24th Infantry on the City of Washington, in company with one battalion of
the 21st Infantry; the 25th infantry on board the Concho, in company with the 4th Infantry.

[14] See Note, at the close of this chapter.

CHAPTER IV.

BRIEF SKETCH OF SPANISH HISTORY.

The following brief sketch of Spain, its era of greatness, the causes leading thereto, and
the reasons for its rapid decline, will be of interest to the reader at this point in the narrative,
as it will bring into view the other side of the impending conflict:

Spain, the first in rank among the second-rate powers of Europe, by reason of her possessions
in the West Indies, especially Cuba, may be regarded as quite a near neighbor, and because
of her connection with the discovery and settlement of the continent, as well as the commanding
part she at one time played in the world's politics, her history cannot but awaken within the
breasts of Americans a most lively interest.

As a geographical and political fact, Spain dates from the earliest times, and the Spanish
people gather within themselves the blood and the traditions of the three great continents
of the Old World--Europe, Asia and Africa--united to produce the mighty Spaniard of the 15th
and 16th centuries. It would be an interesting subject for the anthropologist to trace the
construction of that people who are so often spoken of as possessing the pure blood of Castile,
and as the facts should be brought to view, another proud fiction would dissipate in thin air,
as we should see the Spaniard arising to take his place among the most mixed of mankind.

The Spain that we are considering now is the Spain that gradually emerged from a chaos of conflicting
elements into the unity of a Christian nation. The dismal war between creeds gave way to the
greater conflict between religions, when Cross and Crescent contended for supremacy, and this
too had passed. The four stalwart Christian provinces of Leon, Castile, Aragon and Navarre
had become the four pillars of support to a national throne and Ferdinand and Isabella were
reigning. Spain has now apparently passed the narrows and is crossing the bar with prow set
toward the open sea. She ends her war with the Moors at the same time that England ends her
wars of the Roses, and the battle of Bosworth's field may be classed with the capitulation
of Granada. Both nations confront a future of about equal promise and may be rated as on equal
footing, as this new era of the world opens to view.

What was this new era? Printing had been invented, commerce had arisen, gunpowder had come
into use, the feudal system was passing, royal authority had become paramount, and Spain was
giving to the world its first lessons in what was early stigmatized as the "knavish calling
of diplomacy."

Now began the halcyon days of Spain, and what a breed of men she produced! Read the story of
their conquests in Mexico and Peru, as told with so much skill and taste by our own Prescott;
or read of the grandeur of her national character, and the wonderful valor of her troops, and
the almost marvelous skill of her Alexander of Parma, and her Spinola, as described by our
great Motley, and you will see something of the moral and national glory of that Spain which
under Charles V and Philip II awed the world into respectful silence.

Who but men of iron, under a commander of steel, could have conducted to a successful issue
the awful siege of Antwerp, and by a discipline more dreadful than death, kept for so many
years, armed control of the country of the brave Netherlanders? A Farnese was there, who could
support and command an army, carry Philip and his puerile idiosyncrasies upon his back and
meet the fury of an outraged people who were fighting on their own soil for all that man holds
dear. Never was wretched cause so ably led, never were such splendid talents so unworthily
employed.

Alexander of Parma, Cortez, the Pizarros, were representatives of that form of human character
that Spain especially developed. Skill and daring were brought out in dazzling splendor, and
success followed their movements. Take a brief survey of the Empire under Charles V: Himself
Emperor of Germany; his son married to the Queen of England; Turkey repulsed; France humbled,
and all Europe practically within his grasp. And what was Spain outside of Europe? In America
she possessed territory covering sixty degrees of latitude, owning Mexico, Central America,
Venezuela, New Granada, Peru and Chili, with vast parts of North America, and the islands of
Cuba, Jamaica and St. Domingo. In Africa and Asia she had large possessions--in a word, the
energies of the world were at her feet. The silver and gold of America, the manufactures and
commerce of the Netherlands, combined to make her the richest of nations.

The limits of the present purpose do not permit an exhaustive presentation of her material
strength in detail, nor are the means at hand for making such an exhibit. We must be content
with a general picture, quoted directly from Motley. He says:

"Look at the broad magnificent Spanish Peninsula, stretching across eight degrees of latitude
and ten of longtitude, commanding the Atlantic and the Mediterranean, with a genial climate,
warmed in winter by the vast furnace of Africa, and protected from the scorching heats of summer
by shady mountain and forest, and temperate breezes from either ocean. A generous southern
territory, flowing with oil and wine, and all the richest gifts of a bountiful nature--splendid
cities--the new and daily expanding Madrid, rich in the trophies of the most artistic period
of the modern world; Cadiz, as populous at that day as London, seated by the straits where
the ancient and modern systems of traffic were blending like the mingling of the two oceans;
Granada, the ancient, wealthy seat of the fallen Moors; Toledo, Valladolid, and Lisbon, chief
city of the recently conquered kingdom of Portugal, counting with its suburbs a larger population
than any city excepting Paris, in Europe, the mother of distant colonies, and the capital of
the rapidly-developing traffic with both the Indies--these were some of the treasures of Spain
herself. But she possessed Sicily also, the better portion of Italy, and important dependencies
in Africa, while the famous maritime discoveries of the age had all enured to her aggrandizement.
The world seemed suddenly to have expanded its wings from East to West, only to bear the fortunate
Spanish Empire to the most dizzy heights of wealth and power. The most accomplished generals,
the most disciplined and daring infantry the world has ever known, the best equipped and most
extensive navy, royal and mercantile, of the age, were at the absolute command of the sovereign.
Such was Spain."

Such is not Spain to-day. A quite recent writer, speaking of Spain before the war, said, that
although Spain in extent holds the sixth place in the European states, "it really now subsists
merely by the sufferance of stronger nations." Thus has that nation, which three centuries
ago dominated the world, lost both its position and its energy.

Without attempting to sketch chronologically, either this rise or this decline, let us rather
direct our efforts to an inquiry into the causes of both the one and the other.

In attempting to explain the greatness of Spain we must give first place to the vigor of the
Spanish race. The great Spaniard was a mighty compound. He had the blood of Rome mingled with
the awful torrent that gave birth to the soulless Goths and Vandals. In him also flowed the
hot blood of the Moors. He was both sturdy and fiery; he had the fervor of the South with the
tenacity of the North; the pride of the Roman with the passion of the Moor. The Spanish race
was emphatically a rich race.

And then we must remember that this race had been forged in war. Century after century, from
the earliest times, they had lived with their arms in their hands. First came the long war
between the Arian Vandals, and the Trinitarian natives; then the seven-hundred-year war with
the followers of Mahomed. The whole mission of life to them was to fight.

Naturally there was developed in the people at large the most complete unification and subjection.
Individualism gave place almost entirely to the common weal, and the spectacle was presented
of a nation with no political questions. Maccaulay maintains that human nature is such that
aggregations of men will always show the two principles of radicalism and conservatism, and
that two parties will exist in consequence, one composed of those who are ever looking to a
brighter future, the other of those who are ever seeking to restore a delightful past; but
no such phenomena appear in the ascending period of Spain's history. The whole nation moved
as an organized army, steadily forward, until its zenith was reached. This solidity was a marked
element of its strength.

Mr. Buckle recognizes this, and accounts for the harmonious movements of the nation by the
influence of two leading principles, which he is pleased to call superstition and loyalty.
The Arab invasion had pressed upon the Christians with such force that it was only by the strictest
discipline that the latter had managed to survive. To secure such discipline, and at the same
time supply the people with the steady enthusiasm necessary to support a war from century to
century, all the terrors and all the glories that could be derived from religion were employed.
The church and the state, the prince and the priest, became as one, and loyalty and religion,
devotion to the standard and to the cross, were but different names for the same principles
and actions. Hence Spain emerged to greatness without the least dream of liberty of either
person, conscience or thought. Her rallying cry was: For the Prince and the Church; not, For
God and Liberty. She went up to greatness the most loyal and the most religious of nations;
but Liberty, Justice and Truth were not upon her banners.

Look over the territory settled and conquered by her, and what do we see? Columbus, sailing
under Spain, names the first land he discovers San Salvador; the first settlement made in this
country is St. Augustine; the second, Sante Fe. Look down over the southern half of our continent
and such names as Espirito Santo, Corpus Christi, San Diego, San Juan, San Jose, San Domingo
attest the religious zeal of the conquerors. They were missionaries of the Cross, robbing the
people of their gold and paying them off with religion.

Steadfast in the faith and sturdy in her loyalty, Spain resisted all innovations with respect
to her religious beliefs, and all insurrections against her government. Her Alva and her Torquemada
but illustrated how strong was her conservatism, while her Isabella and her Philip II show
how grand and comprehensive and how persistent was her aggressiveness, under the idea of spreading
and upholding the true faith. She not only meant to hold all she had of wealth and power, but
she aspired to universal dominion; already chief, she desired to be sole, and this in the interest
and name of the Holy Church.

The Reformation did not disturb Spain; it was crushed out within twenty years. The spirit of
liberty that had been growing in England since Bosworth's Field, and that was manifesting itself
in Germany and the Netherlands, and that had begun to quiver even in France, did not dare stir
itself in Spain. Spain was united, or rather, was solidity itself, and this solidity was both
its strength and its death. England was not so united, and England went steadily onward and
upward; but Spain's unity destroyed her, because it practically destroyed individualism and
presented the strange paradox of a strong nation of weak men.

As a machine Spain in the sixteenth century was a marvel of power; as an aggregation of thinking
men, it was even then contemptible. Ferdinand, Charles V and Philip II were able and illustrious
rulers, and they appeared at a time when their several characters could tell on the immediate
fortunes of Spain. They were warriors, and the nation was entirely warlike. During this period
the Spaniard overran the earth, not that he might till the soil, but that he might rob the
man who did. With one hand he was raking in the gold and silver of Mexico and Peru; with the
other confiscating the profits of the trade and manufactures of the Low Countries--and all
in the name of the Great God and Saints!

How was Spain overthrown? The answer is a short one. Spain, under Philip II staked her all
upon a religious war against the awakening age. She met the Reformation within her own borders
and extinguished it; but thought had broken loose from its chains and was abroad in the earth.
England had turned Protestant, and Elizabeth was on the throne; Denmark, Norway and Sweden,
indeed all countries except Spain and Italy had heard the echoes from Luther's trumpet blast.
Italy furnished the religion, and Spain the powder, in this unequal fight between the Old and
the New. Spain was not merely the representative of the old, she WAS the old, and she armed
her whole strength in its behalf.

Here was a religion separated from all moral principle and devoid of all softening sentiment--its
most appropriate formula being, death to all heretics. Death--not to tyrants, not to oppressors,
not to robbers and men-stealers--but death to heretics. It was this that equipped her Armada.

The people were too loyal and too pious to THINK, and so were hurled in a solid mass against
the armed thought of the coming age, and a mighty nation crumbled as in a day. With the destruction
of her Armada her warlike ascendancy passed and she had nothing to put in its place. She had
not tillers of the soil, mechanics or skilled merchants. Business was taking the place of war
all over the world, but Spain knew only religion and war, hence worsted in her only field,
she was doomed.

From the days of Philip II her decline was rapid. Her territory slipped from her as rapidly
as it had been acquired. Her great domains on our soil are now the seat of thriving communities
of English-speaking people. The whole continent of South America has thrown off her yoke, though
still retaining her language, and our troops now embarked from Port Tampa are destined to wrest
from her the two only remaining colonies subject to her sway in the Western World,--Cuba and
Porto Rico. With all her losses hitherto, Spain has not learned wisdom. Antagonistic to truth
and liberty, she seems to sit in the shadow of death, hugging the delusions that have betrayed
her, while all other people of earth are pressing onward toward light and liberty.

The struggle in Cuba had been going on for years, and in that colony of less than two millions
of inhabitants, many of whom were Spaniards, there was now an army four times as large as the
standing army of the United States. Against this army and against the Government of Spain a
revolt had been carried on previous to the present outbreak for a period of ten years, and
which had been settled by concessions on the part of the home government. The present revolt
was of two years' standing when our government decided to interfere. The Cubans had maintained
disorder, if they had not carried on war; and they had declined to be pacified. In their army
they experienced no color difficulties. Gomez, Maceo and Quintin Banderas were generals honored
and loved, Maceo especially coming to be the hero and idol of the insurgents of all classes.
And it can truthfully be said that no man in either the Cuban or Spanish army, in all the Cuban
struggle previous to our intervention, has earned a loftier fame as patriot, soldier and man
of noble mould than ANTONIO MACEO.

Cuba, by far the most advanced of all the West Indian colonies; Cuba, essentially Spanish,
was destined to be the battle ground between our troops and the veterans of Spain. The question
to be settled was that of Spain's sovereignty. Spain's right to rule over the colonies of Cuba
and Porto Rico was disputed by the United States, and this question, and this alone, is to
be settled by force of arms. Further than this, the issue does not go. The dictum of America
is: Spain shall not rule. The questions of Annexation, Expansion and Imperialism were not before
us as we launched our forces to drive Spain out of the West Indies. The Cuban flag was closely
associated with our own standard popularly, and "Cuba Libre" was a wide-spread sentiment in
June, 1898. "We are ready to help the Cubans gain their liberty" was the honest expression
of thousands who felt they were going forward in a war for others.

"The passage to Santiago was generally smooth and uneventful," says General Shafter in his
official report. The monotonous days passed in the harbor at Port Tampa, while waiting for
orders to sail, were unusually trying to the men. They were relieved somewhat by bathing, swimming,
gaming and chatting on the coming events. A soldier who was in one of the colored regiments
describes the inside life of one of the transports as follows: "After some miles of railroad
travel and much hustling we were put on board the transport. I say on board, but it is simply
because we cannot use the terms under board. We were huddled together below two other regiments
and under the water line, in the dirtiest, closest, most sickening place imaginable. For about
fifteen days we were on the water in this dirty hole, but being soldiers we were compelled
to accept this without a murmur. We ate corn beef and canned tomatoes with our hard bread until
we were anything but half way pleased. In the fifth or sixth day out to sea the water furnished
us became muddy or dirty and well flavored with salt, and remained so during the rest of the
journey. Then, the ship's cooks, knowing well our condition made it convenient to themselves
to sell us a glass of clean ice water and a small piece of bread and tainted meat for the sum
of seventy-five cents, or one dollar, as the case might be."

A passage from Port Tampa, around the eastern end of Cuba, through the Windward Passage, even
in June, is ordinarily pleasant. On the deck of a clean steamer, protected from the sun's rays
by a friendly awning, it may be put down as nearly an ideal pleasure trip; but crowded into
freight ships as these men were, many of them clad in thick and uncomfortable clothing, reduced
to the uninviting travel ration, compelled to spend most of the time below decks, occupied
with thoughts of home and friends, and beset with forebodings of coming events, it was very
far from being to them a pastime. Of the thousands who are going to Cuba to magnify the American
flag, not all will return. Occasionally the gay music of the bands would relieve the dull routine
and cause the spirits to rise under the effects of some enlivening waltz or stirring patriotic
air; or entering a school of flying fish the men would be entertained to see these broad-finned
creatures dart from the waves like arrows from the bow, and after a graceful flight of perhaps
near two hundred yards drop again into the sea; but taken altogether it was a voyage that furnishes
little for the historian.

The transports were so arranged as to present an interesting and picturesque spectacle as they
departed from our shores on their ocean march. Forming in three columns, with a distance of
about 1,000 yards between the columns, and the vessels in the columns being distanced from
one another about 400 yards, the fleet was convoyed from Port Tampa by small naval vessels
until it reached a point between the Dry Tortugas and Key West. Here it was met by the noble
battleship Indiana and nine other war vessels, thus making a convoy altogether of fifteen fighting
craft. Transports and convoy now made an armada of more than forty ships, armed and manned
by the audacious modern republic whose flag waved from every masthead. Thus spreading out over
miles of smooth sea, moving quietly along by steam, carrying in its arms the flower of the
American army, every man of which was an athlete, this fleet announced to the world the grim
purpose of a nation aroused.

The weather from the time of leaving Port Tampa continued fine until the fleet entered the
passage between the western coast of Hayti and the eastern end of Cuba, known as the Windward
Passage, when the breeze freshened and a rough sea began, continuing more or less up to the
time of landing. Rounding this eastern coast of Cuba the fleet headed its course westerly and
on the morning of the 20th was able to determine its position as being off Guantanamo Bay,
about fifty miles east of Santiago. Here, eight days before, the first battle on Cuban soil,
in which four American marines were killed, had been fought. About noon on the same day, the
fleet came to a halt off Santiago harbor, or a little to the west of the entrance to it, and
Admiral Sampson came on board. He and General Shafter soon after went ashore to consult the
Cuban General, Garcia, who was known to be in that vicinity with about 4,000 well armed troops.

The voyage over, and the men having been crowded together on shipboard for nearly two weeks,
it was now expedient to get them on shore as soon as possible. But it was necessary to find
out beforehand what defences were along the coast, and what forces of the enemy were likely
to be encountered in landing. The fleet lay off from the shore about a mile, and it was no
small undertaking to convey the 17,000 men on board with all their arms and equipments to the
shore in small boats over a rough sea, especially should the landing be disputed. It was to
arrange for the landing and also to map out a general plan of campaign that the three great
leaders, Shafter, Sampson and Garcia met at Aserradores on the afternoon of June 20th as the
American fleet stood guard over the harbor of Santiago.

General Garcia was already aware of the coming of the fleet, having received a message from
Major-General Miles two weeks previous. The letter of General Miles ran as follows:

     Headquarters of the Army,
     In the Field, Tampa, Fla., June 2, 1898.

     Dear General:--I am very glad to have received your
     officers, General Enrique Collazo and Lieut.-Col. Carlos
     Hernandez, the latter of whom returns to-night with our best
     wishes for your success.

     It would be a very great assistance if you could have as
     large a force as possible in the vicinity of the harbor of
     Santiago de Cuba, and communicate any information by signals
     which Colonel Hernandez will explain to you either to our
     navy or to our army on its arrival, which we hope will be
     before many days.

     It would also assist us very much if you could drive in and
     harass any Spanish troops near or in Santiago de Cuba,
     threatening or attacking them at all points, and preventing,
     by every means, any possible re-enforcement coming to that
     garrison. While this is being done, and before the arrival
     of our army, if you can seize and hold any commanding
     position to the east or west of Santiago de Cuba, or both,
     that would be advantageous for the use of our artillery, it
     will be exceedingly gratifying to us."

To this General Garcia replied that he would "take measures at once to carry out your (Miles')
recommendation, but concentration of forces will require some time. Roads bad and Cubans scattered.
Will march without delay." Admiral Sampson also cabled the Secretary of the Navy that Garcia
"regards his (Miles') wishes and suggestions as orders, and immediately will take measures
to concentrate forces at the points indicated, but he is unable to do so as early as desired
on account of his expedition at Banes Port, Cuba, but will march without delay. All of his
subordinates are ordered to assist to disembark the United States troops and to place themselves
under orders." It was in compliance with these requests that General Garcia had the five thousand
troops so near Santiago at the time he welcomed Shafter and Sampson to his camp, as mentioned
above, and there is every necessary evidence that these Cuban troops took part in the fight
about Santiago. Says General Miles of Garcia: "He had troops in the rear as well as on both
sides of the garrison at Santiago before the arrival of our troops."

