Our march to and from Romney was in midwinter in the month of January, 1862.  It was the coldest
winter known to the oldest inhabitant of these regions.  Situated in the most mountainous country
in Virginia, and away up near the Maryland and Pennsylvania line, the storm king seemed to
rule in all of his majesty and power.  Snow and rain and sleet and tempest seemed to ride and
laugh and shriek and howl and moan and groan in all their fury and wrath.  The soldiers on
this march got very much discouraged and disheartened.  As they marched along icicles hung
from their clothing, guns, and knapsacks; many were badly frost bitten, and I heard of many
freezing to death along the road side.  My feet peeled off like a peeled onion on that march,
and I have not recovered from its effects to this day.  The snow and ice on the ground being
packed by the soldiers tramping, the horses hitched to the artillery wagons were continually
slipping and sliding and falling and wounding themselves and sometimes killing their riders. Faust quiets more fondly than reasons, and finally arranges an appointment
with her.

Here are details on which we dare not enforce decisions. No doubt it is admirable force Goethe's
creative, so real that we are introduced to Margarita and for that surrounds art of candor,
that, notwithstanding all its faults, continues to seem pure and innocent, as if he had evil
in it a god who steals responsibility and free will. Love has been the work of love and not the devil,
but in the direction it takes so beautiful passion, and the devil is involved. No wonder God has
made the same permission to try to Fausto, no wonder he is bound with him. Crimes are needed;
matter is born and is increasing the tragic terror; but despite this, and despite a lot of
evil has to be in the story that such a role does the devil, no one could have excused the detail
of narcotics, Margarita given by her mother during the night to unveil and not surprised at
arms of his beloved? Although Margaret has the certainty that evil will not narcotics his mother,
is not horrible yet to be given, and then have your hand in that violent dream in that mockery
of death, as she has with the man she loves? In all manner of sins are the most and least. No
missing women who tease their mothers and their husbands, but we are certain that for every
cent, just will not discard a the use of narcotics. Even the most conscienceless libertines figure
we have to hurry by all means, and though will not find any, they will stop before proposing
scared her friends this way of numbing the mother or husband to have them then peacefully. Moreover,
Margarita, who was alone in the house of Martha, unscrupulous woman and all was paid, what need was to
infuse his mother sleep?

We say that infanticide is worse, that infanticide is the most heinous of crimes; but infanticide
was necessary to motivate the torture of Margarita, whose goodness is safe thanks to delirium.
Mad, throws his son into a pond, where they drowned, while her mother deliberately gives narcotics
throughout the clearing of his trial, and without the narcotic remove or put the argument or
development of the action. Is a refinement of mischief realism and sinful, and is entirely useless
to spare.  I felt grand, glorious, peculiar; beautiful things began to play
and dance around my head, and I supposed I must have dropped to sleep or something, when I
felt Schwartz grab me, and give me a shake, and at the same time raised his gun and fired,
and yelled out at the top of his voice, "Here is your mule."  The next instant a volley of
minnie balls was scattering the snow all around us.  I tried to walk, but my pants and boots
were stiff and frozen, and the blood had ceased to circulate in my lower limbs.  But Schwartz
kept on firing, and at every fire he would yell out, "Yer is yer mool!"  Pfifer could not speak
English, and I reckon he said "Here is your mule" in Dutch.  About the same time we were hailed
from three Confederate officers, at full gallop right toward us, not to shoot.  And as they
galloped up to us and thundered right across the bridge, we discovered it was Stonewall Jackson
and two of his staff. At the same time the Yankee cavalry charged us, and we, too, ran back
across the bridge.

STANDING PICKET ON THE POTOMAC

Leaving Winchester, we continued up the valley.

The night before the attack on Bath or Berkly Springs, there fell the largest snow I ever saw.

Stonewall Jackson had seventeen thousand soldiers at his command. The Yankees were fortified
at Bath.  An attack was ordered, our regiment marched upon top of a mountain overlooking the
movements of both armies in the valley below.  About 4 o'clock one grand charge and rush was
made, and the Yankees were routed and skedaddled.

By some circumstance or other, Lieutenant J. Lee Bullock came in command of the First Tennessee
Regiment.  But Lee was not a graduate of West Point, you see.

The Federals had left some spiked batteries on the hill side, as we were informed by an old
citizen, and Lee, anxious to capture a battery, gave the new and peculiar command of, "Soldiers,
you are ordered to go forward and capture a battery; just piroute up that hill; piroute, march.
Forward, men; piroute carefully."  The boys "pirouted" as best they could.  It may have been
a new command, and not laid down in Hardee's or Scott's tactics; but Lee was speaking plain
English, and we understood his meaning perfectly, and even at this late day I have no doubt
that every soldier who heard the command thought it a legal and technical term used by military
graduates to go forward and capture a battery.

At this place (Bath), a beautiful young lady ran across the street. I have seen many beautiful
and pretty women in my life, but she was the prettiest one I ever saw.  Were you to ask any
member of the First Tennessee Regiment who was the prettiest woman he ever saw, he would unhesitatingly
answer that he saw her at Berkly Springs during the war, and he would continue the tale, and
tell you of Lee Bullock's piroute and Stonewall Jackson's charge.

We rushed down to the big spring bursting out of the mountain side, and it was hot enough to
cook an egg.  Never did I see soldiers more surprised.  The water was so hot we could not drink it. When Michael is calmed down nerves and found
himself alone in his room, he felt great remorse, had acted ungenerous, after all, the same
fault he had his uncle in the waste: to remember the sad face that embarrassed and I felt so sorry
and regret that Deep unreasonably offended him, he could not sleep all night.

The income that was left was enough to live with relative ease and even luxury hotels in Madrid.
He took over management of the houses and put order in their spending, trying not however,
that his uncle is not without certain pleasures without which the gentleman did not understand
existence. And continued to live happy and content in the best harmony.

Miguel's friendship with his old school and inn, Mendoza had been cooled a bit in recent years, rather
the effect of separation that had mediated because including any grounds for disappointment.
When they were in college or in the street they spoke tenderly and walked together if Michael
was not an urgent thing to do. Some sometimes in days of trouble, Mendoza used to stop by
his friend's house and ask about few dollars.

Moreover, no deviation sometimes months without seeing.

Shortly after finishing the race, Mendoza, every day was better looking and apply to harder to look
like one, wanted to make opposition to a formal spaces, vacancies on the Board of State. Resolved
before he came to talking to Miguel, who encouraged him and promised much take advantage of their
relationships to get what he wanted. Miguel frequented high society and was a friend of several
political figures, it was known in the halls and at the University Riverita the name, and was
generally beloved for his sympathetic figure, although meager, and its frank and funny treatment.
Mendoza made to end its pursuit of questions, and it was only medium, so that even getting the best,
very wary of taking number, which brought him very downcast and discouraged. However, when he
reached the second exercise, which consisted write locked in for twenty-four hours, a dissertation
on a topic chosen from three and then answer the objections that might make him two companions,
he thought saving; asked to please Michael, in whose talent he trusted very much, that it is written.
There need for them to avail themselves of a ruse. At the time it was contained, Rivera was there,
heard about the theme and ran to get into the University library, where in a few hours striving
to consult books and wit, wrote a long and scholarly discourse. The problem was that came
into the hands of Mendoza. To achieve this was to haunt the late At night the building of the
Councils, gave a shrill whistle, like a lover to warn his girlfriend, and soon cautiously
opened a window upstairs and saw a thread silk floating in the air, Miguel manuscript and
hastily tied the thread started dragging it up.

The next morning was full of anxiety to witness the exercise of his friend. This, that dissertation
was copied in large letters, the sign read with intonation and not a little device; the judges
were surprised so much erudition and pleasant style, he did not suspect existed. When the time
came, however, to answer objections, declined well, not knowing rather than referring to his speech,
struggled in vain to find some new argument for the thesis. Despite this and the median period of
questions, the court paid not common knowledge that he had shown, he adopted the exercises. Then
was when Michael came into play all his friends to get the minister to grant him one of the
seats, the largest in the Council, its partner hotel, it was one of the least worked on the
case. Finally, after many twists and turns, promises and anxieties, Mendoza was named high official
advisory body with twelve thousand pieces of salary, although was not very fat, had the job the advantage
of being fixed, and the capital, and very CONSCIOUS to befriend the heroes of politics and
administration, under whose aegis is as only you can make a fortune in Spain. The son of the surgeon
was, then, franchise, or what is the same, had secured its modus vivendi. The victory was celebrated
by the two friends with dinner and toasts were fervent in her and
swore eternal fidelity.

Shortly after this incident, another occurred in the life of Miguel that gave rise to changes important
in it. We have said that he had entered in good standing in society,
which is per man was entertaining and fun, and enjoyed all the privileges
that wealth and ingenuity usually granted in the capital.  The witnesses all testified against
him, charges and specifications were read, and by the rules of war he had to be shot to death
by musketry.  The Advocate- General for the prosecution made the opening speech.  He read the
law in a plain, straightforward manner, and said that for a soldier to go to sleep at his post
of duty, while so much depended upon him, was the most culpable of all crimes, and the most
inexcusable.  I trembled in my boots, for on several occasions I knew I had taken a short nap,
even on the very outpost.  The Advocate-General went on further to say, that the picket was
the sentinel that held the lives of his countrymen and the liberty of his country in his hands,
and it mattered not what may have been his record in the past.  At one moment he had forfeited
his life to his country.  For discipline's sake, if for nothing else, you gentlemen that make
up this court-martial find the prisoner guilty.  It is necessary for you to be firm, gentlemen,
for upon your decision depends the safety of our country.  When he had finished, thinks I to
myself, "Gone up the spout, sure; we will have a first-class funeral here before night."

Well, as to the lawyer who defended him, I cannot now remember his speeches; but he represented
a fair-haired boy leaving his home and family, telling his father and aged mother and darling
little sister farewell, and spoke of his proud step, though a mere boy, going to defend his
country and his loved ones; but at one weak moment, when nature, tasked and taxed beyond the
bounds of human endurance, could stand no longer, and upon the still and silent picket post,
when the whole army was hushed in slumber, what wonder is it that he, too, may have fallen
asleep while at his post of duty.

Some of you gentlemen of this court-martial may have sons, may have brothers; yes, even fathers,
in the army.  Where are they tonight? You love your children, or your brother or father.  This
mere youth has a father and mother and sister away back in Tennessee.  They are willing to
give him to his country.  But oh! gentlemen, let the word go back to Tennessee that he died
upon the battlefield, and not by the hands of his own comrades for being asleep at his post
of duty.  I cannot now remember the speeches, but one thing I do know, that he was acquitted,
and I was glad of it.

"THE DEATH WATCH"

One more scene I can remember.  Kind friends--you that know nothing of a soldier's life--I
ask you in all candor not to doubt the following lines in this sketch.  You have no doubt read
of the old Roman soldier found amid the ruins of Pompeii, who had stood there for sixteen hundred
years, and when he was excavated was found at his post with his gun clasped in his skeleton
hands.  You believe this because it is written in history. I have heard politicians tell it.
I have heard it told from the sacred desk.  It is true; no one doubts it.

Now, were I to tell something that happened in this nineteenth century exactly similar, you
would hardly believe it.  But whether you believe it or not, it is for you to say.  At a little
village called Hampshire Crossing, our regiment was ordered to go to a little stream called
St. John's Run, to relieve the 14th Georgia Regiment and the 3rd Arkansas.  I cannot tell the
facts as I desire to.  In fact, my hand trembles so, and my feelings are so overcome, that
it is hard for me to write at all.  But we went to the place that we were ordered to go to,
and when we arrived there we found the guard sure enough.  If I remember correctly, there were
just eleven of them.  Some were sitting down and some were lying down; but each and every one
was as cold and as hard frozen as the icicles that hung from their hands and faces and clothing--
dead!  They had died at their post of duty.  Two of them, a little in advance of the others,
were standing with their guns in their hands, as cold and as hard frozen as a monument of marble--standing
sentinel with loaded guns in their frozen hands!  The tale is told.  Were they true men?  Does
He who noteth the sparrow's fall, and numbers the hairs of our heads, have any interest in
one like ourselves?  Yes; He doeth all things well.  Not a sparrow falls to the ground without
His consent.

VIRGINIA, FAREWELL

After having served through all the valley campaign, and marched through all the wonders of
Northwest Virginia, and being associated with the army of Virginia, it was with sorrow and
regret that we bade farewell to "Old Virginia's shore," to go to other fields of blood and
carnage and death. We had learned to love Virginia; we love her now.  The people were kind
and good to us.  They divided their last crust of bread and rasher of bacon with us.  We loved
Lee, we loved Jackson; we loved the name, association and people of Virginia.  Hatton, Forbes,
Anderson, Gilliam, Govan, Loring, Ashby and Schumaker were names with which we had been long
associated.  We hated to leave all our old comrades behind us.  We felt that we were proving
recreant to the instincts of our own manhood, and that we were leaving those who had stood
by us on the march and battlefield when they most needed our help.  We knew the 7th and 14th
Tennessee regiments; we knew the 3rd Arkansas, the 14th Georgia, and 42nd Virginia regiments.
Their names were as familiar as household words. We were about to leave the bones of Joe Bynum
and Gus Allen and Patrick Hanly.  We were about to bid farewell to every tender association
that we had formed with the good people of Virginia, and to our old associates among the soldiers
of the Grand Army of Virginia.  Virginia, farewell! Away back yonder, in good old Tennessee,
our homes and loved ones are being robbed and insulted, our fields laid waste, our cities sacked,
and our people slain.  Duty as well as patriotism calls us back to our native home, to try
and defend it, as best we can, against an invading army of our then enemies; and, Virginia,
once more we bid you a long farewell!

CHAPTER II

SHILOH

This was the first big battle in which our regiment had ever been engaged.  I do not pretend
to tell of what command distinguished itself; of heroes; of blood and wounds; of shrieks and
groans; of brilliant charges; of cannon captured, etc.  I was but a private soldier, and if
I happened to look to see if I could find out anything, "Eyes right, guide center," was the
order.  "Close up, guide right, halt, forward, right oblique, left oblique, halt, forward,
guide center, eyes right, dress up promptly in the rear, steady, double quick, charge bayonets,
fire at will," is about all that a private soldier ever knows of a battle. This crime was impossible
  any compromise, and the army, which had halted on the shores of
  Ygarapey, advanced to the Ibicuy, paths impassable, and the rigor
  of winter. The lack of pasture and the exhaustion it caused the
  horses, forced the Spanish army to go back to the jump-boy,
  and this retrograde motion, breaking the hostilities, emboldened
  Indians, who came forward to hostilities.
  

  Moreover Gomez Freyre had been caught in the forests of Yacuì, where
  he learned Andonaegui withdrawal, while rebels, whose greatest
  hatred was against the Portuguese, were à challenge to the Rio Pardo.
  These partial seizures, which the chiefs were attributed win
  allies, ended in a armistice unless Gomez did not conclude
  with Freyre chiefs in their camp Yacuí River [3].
  

  Irritated by such cowardice and incompetence, Brigadier D. Josè
  Joaquin de Viana, Governor of Montevideo, flew to Camp Freyre
  to urge that broke as soon as these truces shameful. The
  words in this bizarre official awoke the value of their companions,
  who, under his direction and auspices, defeated in the first shock
  to the Indians near Batovi, where the General himself with a pistol
  shot down the Sepé famous leader.
  

  Succeeded to the command of the rebels the mayor, or chief the
  town of Concepcion, Nicolas Nanguirù, better known in history
  of these riots under the name of Nicholas I, which said he took
  the kingship.
We could hear the shout of the charge and the incessant roar of the guns, the rattle of the
musketry, and knew that the contending forces were engaged in a breast to breast struggle.
But cheering news continued to come back. Every one who passed would be hailed with, "Well,
what news from the front?"  "Well, boys, we are driving 'em.  We have captured all their encampments,
everything that they had, and all their provisions and army stores, and everything."

As we were advancing to the attack and to support the Alabama brigade in our front, and which
had given way and were stricken with fear, some of the boys of our regiment would laugh at
them, and ask what they were running for, and would commence to say "Flicker! flicker! flicker!"
like the bird called the yellowhammer, "Flicker! flicker! flicker!" As we advanced, on the
edge of the battlefield, we saw a big fat colonel of the 23rd Tennessee regiment badly wounded,
whose name, if I remember correctly, was Matt. Martin.  He said to us, "Give 'em goss, boys.
That's right, my brave First Tennessee.  Give 'em Hail Columbia!" We halted but a moment, and
said I, "Colonel, where are you wounded?" He answered in a deep bass voice, "My son, I am wounded
in the arm, in the leg, in the head, in the body, and in another place which I have a delicacy
in mentioning."  That is what the gallant old Colonel said. Advancing a little further on,
we saw General Albert Sidney Johnson surrounded by his staff and Governor Harris, of Tennessee. Items of other peoples, after having
  sung solemnly yesterday to EVE responsory by the captain
  and the soldiers in the valley where was the pastor of souls,
  and estándose before him, began to back. Having walked a little,
  there was an browser, and said that the Portuguese called
  their horses, and meanwhile they promised freedom of the captives,
  but those had already walked so much that until after vespers, but
  not even the next day could be coupled: for as the Johannine they
  had many, already had crossed the Rio Curutuy, many Luisistas, who
  had also walked a lot, could not to meet the people scattered, and
  rather it reused.
    It all seemed to me a dream; I seemed to be in a sort
of haze, when siz, siz, siz, the minnie balls from the Yankee line began to whistle around
our ears, and I thought of the Irishman when he said, "Sure enough, those fellows are shooting
bullets!"

Down would drop first one fellow and then another, either killed or wounded, when we were ordered
to charge bayonets.  I had been feeling mean all the morning as if I had stolen a sheep, but
when the order to charge was given, I got happy.  I felt happier than a fellow does when he
professes religion at a big Methodist camp-meeting. Margarita sings the beautiful song. In his room his head is spinning, following his soul, showing
that he is completely owned and completely overtaken by her friendship and love. He thinks he has
no will but Margarita's.  Discharge after discharge was poured into the retreating line.
The Federal dead and wounded covered the ground.

