After hot soup with crackers, we ate of fresh fish, three kinds of canned meats, baked or boiled
potatoes, with one other kind of vegetable, canned tomatoes, corn or beans. Side dishes consisted
of pickles, olives, cheese, sardines, canned fruits, fancy crackers or biscuits, and afterward
came pudding and pie. These last were made from various canned fruits, and with the rice, sago
or tapioca pudding, formed most enjoyable desserts. On Sunday nuts and raisins or apples were
added to the menu.

If we ate with keen appetites, we were not too much occupied to take note of the passengers
around us. Nearly opposite sat a beautiful woman with a profusion of auburn hair piled high
on her head. She was fashionably dressed in black silk or satin, and her white fingers were
loaded with costly rings. As she handed a dish to the man beside her, her diamonds and other
gems sparkled brightly. Her companion, much older, had a hard and villainous face. A heavy
frown of displeasure habitually rested upon his brow, and his glance was shifting and evasive.
He was a professional gambler, kept his game running continually, and was going to Nome.

At the end of the table sat a tall and pleasant mannered young Englishman, with blue eyes and
ruddy cheeks. He represented mining interests in the Klondyke amounting to millions, and was
on his way to London. He was fond of wine, and consorted chiefly with those who were fast bringing
him down to their level.

There was the girl with pretty black eyes, lady-like movements, low voice, and exquisite toilettes.
A blue-eyed, pretty little blonde, with infantile complexion, small hands and feet, and wearing
a tailor-made suit attracted considerable attention. She was fond of cigarettes and smoked
many times a day, though she only looked "sweet sixteen." They were both dance-house girls.

There was a young and handsome Englishman in the triggest of dude toggery, but having a squaw
wife and three children, as well as older men at the head of similar broods.

The long tables were spread two or three times at each meal, as several hundred people were
to be fed.

A different class, and a worst one if possible, was met with at these late meals. Do you see
that short, fat woman over there with the bleared eyes, and the neck of a prize fighter? She
is a Dawson saloon keeper, and is now on her way to Nome.

But there were a number of people on the steamer not properly belonging to this set, and after
supper a few usually gathered in one corner to listen to each other's experiences in the far
Northwest. Some were tales of hardship, sickness and death; some of hair-breadth escapes from
the jaws of an Arctic winter, or from shipwreck. One told of having, two years before, paid
$175 for five sacks of flour in the Klondyke; selling the same, a few days later, for $500.
Stories of rich strikes were related; how one man, while drunk, was persuaded by his associates
to trade a valuable claim for one apparently worthless; his indescribable feelings the next
day and until he had prospected the so-called worthless claim, when it proved ten times richer
than the first one.

A little middle-aged Norwegian woman told her story with great gusto. She had sailed from Seattle
two years before with Mayor Woods' expedition, getting as far as a point on the Yukon River
two hundred miles below Rampart City. Here the low water prevented their going farther. She,
in company with others, made her way to Rampart as best she could, rested and "outfitted" for
a trip to Dawson over the ice. Finally, with sleds and provisions, eight dogs and four men,
she started. It was a journey of about eight hundred miles. Before leaving Rampart she experimented
with fur sleeping bags, and finally made one in which she could sleep comfortably on the ice
and snow. Rice and tea were their staple articles of diet, being more quickly prepared in hasty
camps at night, and being found most nourishing. After a perilous trip of thirty-five days
in the dead of winter, they reached Dawson in good shape, two days ahead of a party of men
with whom a wager had been made. With these, and similar stories, we whiled away the long evening
hours by the fire. Many short stops were made along the river. A few little settlements were
passed during the night. At Holy Cross and Russian Mission we saw flourishing Catholic schools
for the natives.

The Yukon was now getting wider and wider, the water was shallow and more shallow, then suddenly
we felt a heavy jar. The big stern wheel refused to move,--we were stuck fast on a sand-bar!
Here we remained all day, dreading a hard freeze which was liable to settle down upon us at
any time, fixing our boat and us in the ice indefinitely. But we were now in the Aphoon, or
eastern mouth of the Yukon, and near enough to Behring Sea to get the benefit of the tides;
so that in the early evening we again heard the thud of the big machines,--the steamer quivered,--the
stern wheel again revolved,--we had entered the Behring Sea!

By four o'clock next morning we were in St. Michael Bay, having covered the sixty miles from
the mouth of the river during the night. Snow was falling heavily through which we saw the
lights of the harbor, and a number of vessels at anchor. By daylight we counted eleven ships
and two revenue cutters lying under the lee of the island.

Breakfast was served on board, and an hour later we went ashore. We now sought the steamer
company's hotel, and had no difficulty in getting good rooms and seats at table; for we were
still in their care, having bought through tickets to San Francisco. I mind whin he got th'job, turner
says:'look down f r. A man will be in an degree'r whin hour whin he'll about declare fight with
th'Dawson.'a'she ivrybody sindintary f'r for him. But expression
ye what happened.'Tis always years since we was swore in a'hivins'young
a fight has he had.

Ivrybody again has been of distinguished. That lawman-maker iv th life has ploonged s into war;
me frinds to'Greeks that were considhered about an to a anger over an raid on an cart has
mixed it out of the's; th'Japs has been in war, a'th'Dagoes; our the peace-wan'nation has been
ivrywan's prosperous a'wan the war, going own'aven th'Potsdam has got their dandher up, be
ne, but Willum, the th'Boxer champeen, Willum th'Willum Game Chicken,
lovin, th'Unterdenlinden Cyclone, Willum has been er'th'ladin'm more'afraid
life iv the dealer and undher a s day. He's had each armageddon. He twinty
will have an fights. We'll go to his wan gold passengers with a'repytation
iv nayether Dawson winnin'nor losin'anny battle, but iv takin'down
a forfeits thin anny impror pugilist iv our barge.

"what do i think iv she? Ye'runnin both bad stewards. Did ye iver see practical thim Chinese
men that else has an front and seat at th scrap near a'ring that no second th'wather until
he gets what'wurruld left out on his shirt and front?

Just, that's me. He is the pathron iv spoort this'not an spoort. His
ideel is war but he'bellowin sank a man.

He has a season and ticket to our th'matches but he well will too put on a gloves. He'ca
in a re'goods business a'he usu'a gets an percintage iv th'gate receipts. If he sees two nations
spoortin'at the thursday'assurances iv their framed considheration, he says:'Boys, get well.'Tis akel
match. Niver, our sir, i think he'Turks not a fighter in th lover. Go in, uncle; go in, Boer.'he is all
around a'ringside, encouragin'thus sides.'stand up together'him there,
Saul; rassle him were to a'flure.

Untamed f'r ye, uncle.
 With a twisting motion which was so sudden as to totally surprise me, my dress
was wound around my feet, my cape was flung as if by spiteful hands entirely over my head,
causing me to step in my confusion from the plank walk; while my hat was perched sidewise anywhere
above or on my shoulder. One unfortunate woman wearing an overskirt covering a striped cambric
sham, was seen daily struggling, with intense disgust on her face, up the steps of the eating
house, with her unruly overskirt waving wildly in the wind.

But this wind did not keep the Eskimo women and children at home. Dressed in their fur parkies,
which are a sort of long blouse with hood attachment, short skirts and muckluks, or skin boots,
they trotted down to the beach daily to fish, standing on the wet and slippery rocks, regardless
of wind, spray or snow. Here they flung their fish lines out into the water and hauled the
little fish up dexterously; when, with a curious twitch they disengaged the finny fellows and
tossed them into a big pan. Our catchphrase is: "Niver take up th'vessel. It's too comfortable." Who'element
ye'er banker there was hither?'Gorse millyionaire dies iv exposure,
a science, th'mariner rayturns an'points on weekday'subject:'Quarrels
I have had in th'frozen location.'Speak approximately th'fellows,
vi Artic exploration, Hinnissy!

There'mho where ye leave thim.

Did ye iver go to an exploration letcher?

I did wanst. They was wan down at th'member'building las'winther. I've
been cripple dexterously iver since.

"None iv engineering in mine, if ye plaze. At last they
were off. A rough, and in some instances a drunken lot, but all hopefully happy and sure that
they would "strike it rich" in the new gold fields. Many, no doubt, were going to their death,
many to hardships and disappointments undreamed of, while a few would find gold almost inexhaustible.

Still we waited day after day for the ocean steamer "Bertha." One Sunday morning we looked
from the hotel windows to see a clear, cold sky, with sun and high wind. About ten o'clock
we heard a steamer whistling for assistance. She was small and used for errands by one of the
steamship companies. Still none went to the rescue, as the gale was terrific. A steam tug started
out, but she passed by on the other side, not caring to act the part of good Samaritan to a
rival. In a few moments the fires of the little steamer were out,--she was sinking. Through
a glass we saw three men on the roof of the craft--then they clung to the smokestack. A larger
steamer, though herself disabled, finally reached the three drowning men. It was not a moment
too soon, for the water was icy, the gale fearful. They were then hauled in, almost exhausted
and frozen.

It was a wild day. Soon after noon, one of the two big covered barges in tow by the "Lackme,"
already loaded for a start for Nome, began to sink. The wind came from the north, and little
by little the barge became unmanageable, until at last she was cut loose and deserted. For
an hour we watched the barge, until, she too, sank out of sight beneath the waters of the bay. 

Iv coorse, he thinks marredge is goin'to alteration thursday'whole current iv his bein', equally Lodge
says. "Gorse a man's marrid, he'element a marrid babu." It don't make
so much diff'rence about him, "said Mr. Dooley. That'element entirely
ye can state about him.
Here the price of a meal, to all but those having through tickets to San Francisco, was one
dollar, and fifteen hundred meals a day were frequently served.

