     [Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Perigord, born at Paris, 1754, was
     descended from the counts of Perigord.  Rendered lame by an
     accident, he entered the clergy, and in 1788 became Bishop of Autun.
     In the States-General he sided with the Revolution.  During the
     Reign of Terror he visited England and the United States.  Recalled
     in 1796, he became minister of foreign affairs under the Directory,
     which post he retained under the Consulate.  In 1806 he was made
     Prince of Benevento.  He soon fell into disgrace.  Sided with the
     Bourbons in 1814, and was minister at the congress of Vienna,
     president of the council, and minister under the king.  Died 1838.
     --TRANS.]

giving his hand to Madame Bonaparte, had the honor of presenting to her, one after another,
the members of the Diplomatic Corps, not according to their names, but that of the courts they
represented.  He then made with her the tour of the two saloons, and the circuit of the second
was only half finished when the First Consul entered without being announced.  He was dressed
in a very plain uniform, with a tricolored silk scarf, with fringes of the same around his
waist.  He wore close-fitting pantaloons of white cassimere, and top-boots, and held his hat
in his hand.  This plain dress, in the midst of the embroidered coats loaded with cordons and
orders worn by the ambassadors and foreign dignitaries, presented a contrast as striking as
the toilette of Madame Bonaparte compared with that of the other ladies present.

Before relating how I exchanged the service of Madame Bonaparte for that of the chief of state,
and a sojourn at Malmaison for the second campaign of Italy, I think I should pause to recall
one or two incidents which belong to the time spent in the service of Madame Bonaparte.  She
loved to sit up late, and, when almost everybody else had retired, to play a game of billiards,
or more often of backgammon.  It happened on one occasion that, having dismissed every one
else, and not yet being sleepy, she asked if I knew how to play billiards, and upon my replying
in the affirmative, requested me with charming grace to play with her; and I had often afterwards
the honor of doing so.  Although I had some skill, I always managed to let her beat me, which
pleased her exceedingly.  If this was flattery, I must admit it; but I would have done the
same towards any other woman, whatever her rank and her relation to me, had she been even half
as lovely as was Madame Bonaparte.

The concierge of Malmaison, who possessed the entire confidence of his employers, among other
means of precaution and watchfulness conceived by him in order to protect the residence and
person of the First Consul from any sudden attack, had trained for the chateau several large
dogs, among which were two very handsome Newfoundlands.  Work on the improvements of Malmaison
went on incessantly, and a large number of workmen lodged there at night, who were carefully
warned not to venture out alone; but one night as some of the watchdogs were with the workmen
in their lodgings, and allowed themselves to be caressed, their apparent docility encouraged
one of these men to attempt the imprudence of venturing out.  Believing that the surest way
to avoid danger was to put himself under the protection of one of those powerful animals, he
took one of them with him, and in a very friendly manner they passed out of the door together;
but no sooner had they reached the outside, than the dog sprang upon his unfortunate companion
and threw him down.  The cries of the poor workman brought some of the guard, who ran to his
aid.  Just in time; for the dog was holding him fast to the ground, and had seized him by the
throat.  He was rescued, badly wounded.  Madame Bonaparte, when she was informed of this accident,
had him nursed till perfectly cured, and gave him a handsome gratuity, but recommended him
to be more prudent in the future.

Every moment that the First Consul could snatch from affairs of state he passed at Malmaison.
The evening of each decadii

     [Under the Republic, Sunday was abolished.  A decade of ten days
     was substituted for the week; and the decadi, or tenth day, took the
     place of the Sabbath.--TRANS.]

was a time of expectation and joy at the chateau.  Madame Bonaparte sent domestics on horseback
and on foot to meet her husband, and often went herself, accompanied by her daughter and her
Malmaison friends.  When not on duty, I went myself and alone:  for everybody felt for the
First Consul the same affection, and experienced in regard to him the same anxiety; and such
was the bitterness and boldness of his enemies that the road, though short, between Paris and
Malmaison was full of dangers and snares.  We knew that many plans had been laid to kidnap
him on this road, and that these attempts might be renewed.  The most dangerous spot was the
quarries of Nanterre, of which I have already spoken; so they were carefully examined, and
guarded by his followers each day on which the First Consul was to pass, and finally the depressions
nearest the road were filled up.  The First Consul was gratified by our devotion to him, and
gave us proofs of his satisfaction, though he himself seemed always free from fear or uneasiness.
Very often, indeed, he mildly ridiculed our anxiety, and would relate very seriously to the
good Josephine what a narrow escape he had on the road; how men of a sinister appearance had
shown themselves many times on his way; how one of them had had the boldness to aim at him,
etc.  And when he saw her well frightened, he would burst out laughing, give her some taps
or kisses on her cheek and neck, saying to her, "Have no fear, little goose; they would not
dare."  On these "days of furlough," as he called them, he was occupied more with his private
affairs than with those of state; but never could he remain idle.  He would make them pull
down, put up again, build, enlarge, set out, prune, incessantly, both in the chateau and in
the park, while he examined the bills of expenses, estimated receipts, and ordered economies.
Time passed quickly in all these occupations; and the moment soon came when it was necessary
to return, and, as he expressed it, put on again the yoke of misery.

CHAPTER IV.

