MY BELOVED POILUS"

THESE HOME LETTERS FROM AN AMERICAN GIRL, DAUGHTER OF A RETIRED GENERAL OF THE U. S. ARMY,
GIVING HER TRAINED SERVICES, CARING FOR THE WOUNDED IN FRANCE AT AN ARMY AMBULANCE AND SUCCORING
DISTRESS WHEREVER SHE MEETS IT, ARE PUBLISHED BY HER FRIENDS WITHOUT HER KNOWLEDGE. SIMPLY
AND SOLELY TO RAISE MONEY TO AID HER IN HER WORK WHICH BEGAN ON THE 4th DAY OF AUGUST, 1914.

EVERY DOLLAR RECEIVED FROM THE SALE OF THE BOOK, LESS BARE COST OF PRINTING AND EXPRESS CHARGES,
GOES TO THE FUND.

                            St. John, N. B.
                  BARNES & CO., Limited, PUBLISHERS.
                                  1917

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Assistance of all Booksellers and Stationers is Solicited in Pushing this Work. Price One
Dollar. Single Copies by Mail Postage Paid. Address "Poilus," Box 163, St. John, N. B. Hospital
Contributions will be received and acknowledged by A. C. Skelton, Manager Bank of British North
America, St. John, N. B.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               Copyright.

                         Canada, March 2, 1917.
                      United States, March, 1917.

                     First Edition, March 15, 1917.
                    Second Edition, April 15, 1917.

                             Engravings by
                   F. C. Wesley Co., St. John, N. B.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                PREFACE.

When Florence Nightingale began her great work in the hospital wards at Scutari in 1854, she
little realised how far-reaching would be the effect of her noble self-sacrificing efforts. The
sap of this as well as of delicate palms is found to be the simplest and easiest remedy that
can be employed in removing constipation for persons of other habit, especially European females.--
Voigt's Suburbanus Calcuttensis. Her fine example is being emulated to-day by hundreds of thousands of brave women
who are devoting themselves to the wounded, the sick and the dying in countless hospital wards.

All too little is known of what these devoted nurses have done and are doing. Some day the
whole story will be given to the world; and the hearts of all will be thrilled by stirring
deeds of love and bravery. In the meantime it is pleasing and comforting to catch fleeting
glimpses of a portion of the work as depicted in this sheaf of letters, now issued under the
title of "My Beloved Poilus," written from the Front by a brave American nurse.

Two outstanding features give special merit to these letters. They were not written for publication,
but for an intimate circle of relatives and friends. And because of this they are not artificial,
but are free and graceful, with homely touches here and there which add so much to their value.
Amidst the incessant roar of mighty guns; surrounded by the wounded and the dying; shivering
at times with cold, and wearied almost to the point of exhaustion, these letters were hurriedly
penned. No time had she for finely-turned phrases. Neither were they necessary. The simple
statements appeal more to the heart than most eloquent words.

These letters will bring great comfort to many who have loved ones at the Front. They will
tell them something of the careful sympathetic treatment the wounded receive. The glimpses
given here and there, of the efforts made by surgeons and nurses alike to administer relief,
and as far as possible to assuage the suffering of the wounded, should prove most comforting.
What efforts are made to cheer the patients, and to brighten their lot, and what personal interest
is taken in their welfare, are incidentally revealed in these letters. For instance, "The men
had a wonderful Christmas Day (1916). They were like a happy lot of children. We decorated
the ward with flags, holly and mistletoe, and paper flowers that the men made, and a tree in
each ward."

How these letters bring home to us the terrible tragedy that is going on far across the ocean.
And yet mingled with the feeling of sadness is the spirit of inspiration which comes from the
thought of those brave men who are offering themselves to maintain the right, and the devoted
women who are ministering to their needs. Our heads bow with reverence, and our hearts thrill
with pride, when we think of them. But we must do more than think and feel; we must do our
part in supporting them and upholding their hands. They have given their all. They can do no
more, and dare we do less?

                                                H. A. CODY,
                                                Rector St. James Church.

                                Author of "Rod of the Lone Patrol,"
                                "Frontiersman,"
                                "If any Man Sin,"
                                Etc., Etc.

St. John, N. B., February 19th, 1917.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                              INTRODUCTION

The writer of these letters, a graduate of McGill College, and the Presbyterian Hospital, New
York, left New York in the Spring of 1914 with a patient, for the Continent, finally locating
at Divonne-Les-Bains, France, near the Swiss border, where they were on August 1st, when war
broke out. She immediately began giving her assistance in "Red Cross" work, continuing same
until the latter part of November, when she returned with her patient to New York--made a hurried
visit to her home in St. John and after Christmas returned to again take up the work which
these letters describe.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          "MY BELOVED POILUS"

                                              Divonne-les-bains, France,
                                                         August 2, 1914.

DEAR MOTHER:

The awful war we have all been dreading is upon us--France is Mobilizing. At five o'clock yesterday
morning the tocsin sounded from the Mairie (village hall) and men, women, and children all
flocked to hear the proclamation which the Mayor of the village read. It called upon all of
military age--between twenty years and fifty years--to march at once, and inside of twenty-four
hours five hundred men had gone, they knew not where. The bravery of these villagers--men and
women--is remarkable, and not to be forgotten. No murmuring, no complaining,--just, "Ma Patrie,"
tying up the little bundle--so little--and going; none left but old men, women and children.

We have started teaching the women and girls to make bandages, sponges, etc., for the hospital
which will be needed here.

                                              Divonne-Les-Bains, France.
                                                        August 23, 1914.

Your letter came yesterday--twenty days on the way--but I was fortunate to get it at all; so
many of these poor people, whose nearest and dearest have gone to fight for their country,
have had no word from them since they marched away, and they do not know where they are.

From this little village 500 men left the first day of mobilization; there is not a family
who has not some one gone, and from some both fathers and sons have gone, as the age limit
is from twenty to fifty years.

I am filled with admiration and respect for these people. The courage of both the men and women
is remarkable. There is no hesitation, and no grumbling, and everyone tries to do whatever
he or she can to help the cause. 

The stars are entirely independent of man: not so the children of Flora. Few can doat upon the remote
flowers of the sky as many of us doat in the flowers at our feet.
We tend upon and cherish them with a parental pride. All the horses and motors
had been taken by the Government for the army, so she started at eleven o'clock at night, all
by her self, and got here about five in the morning--her son left at seven, so she had two
hours with him. While there are such mothers in France she cannot fall. There are many such
stories I might tell you, but I have not the time.

The "Red Cross" has started a branch hospital here, and I have been helping them to get it
in order. It is just about ready now, and we may get soldiers any day.

I have classes every morning and find many of the women very quick to learn the rudiments of
nursing. Every one in the place is making supplies and our sitting room is a sort of depot
where they come for work.

If my patient is as well in October as she is now I am going to stay and give my services to
the "Red Cross." If I have to go home with her I will come back--I would be a coward and deserter
if I did not do all I could for these poor brave people.

                                                       October 25, 1914.

Another Sunday--but this is cold and rainy--the days slip by so quickly I cannot keep track
of them. We have only two soldiers left at the hospital--they tell us every day that others
are coming. The country all about is perfectly beautiful with the autumn coloring. We do not
see any of the horrors of the war here. If it were not for the tales that come to us from outside,
and for the poor broken men who come back, we would not know it was going on. There are very
enthusiastic accounts of the Canadians in all the English papers.

                                         PARIS, about February 15, 1915.

Back safely in Paris after taking my patient to New York and a short visit home, which now
seems like a dream.

I have been spending a lot of time at the American Ambulance this week, but have not gone out
to stay as yet, as I still have to see some other small hospitals and had to go to the Clearing
House to make arrangements for sending supplies, which I brought from home and New York, to
different places.

I have seen quite a number of operations, and as X-ray pictures are taken of all the cases
there is no time wasted in hunting for a bullet; they get the bullet out in about two minutes.
They are using Dr. Criles' anæsthetic--nitrous oxide gas and oxygen--it has no bad effects
whatever. The patients come out of it at once as soon as the mask is taken off, and there is
no nausea or illness at all; and most of them go off laughing, for they cannot believe that
it is all over,--they feel so well; but oh, mother, it is awful to see the sad things that
have happened. In some cases there are only pieces of men left. One young chap, twenty-one
years old, has lost both legs. At first he did not want to live, but now he is beginning to
take an interest in things and is being fitted for wooden legs.

The dental department has done wonderful work. They build up the frame work of the face and
jaws and then the surgeons finish the work by making new noses and lips and eyelids. I thought
I had seen a good many wonderful things, but I did not believe it possible to make any thing
human out of some of the pieces of faces that were left, and in some of the cases they even
get rid of the scars. Photos are taken when they first come in, and then in the various stages
of recovery. One of the worst cases I saw the last day I was out. He has to have one more operation
to fill in a small hole in one side of his nose and then he will be all right.

