Up to the present time, Julien de Buxieres had not been spoiled by Fortune's gifts.  His parents,
who had died prematurely, had left him nothing.  He lived in a very mediocre style on his slender
salary as comptroller of direct contributions, and, although twenty-seven years old, was housed
like a supernumerary in a small furnished room on the second floor above the ground.  At this
time his physique was that of a young man of medium height, slight, pale, and nervous, sensitive
in disposition, reserved and introspective in habit.  His delicate features, his intelligent
forehead surmounted by soft chestnut hair, his pathetic blue eyes, his curved, dissatisfied
mouth, shaded by a slight, dark moustache, indicated a melancholy, unquiet temperament and
precocious moral fatigue.

There are some men who never have had any childhood, or rather, whose childhood never has had
its happy time of laughter.  Julien was one of these.  That which imparts to childhood its
charm and enjoyment is the warm and tender atmosphere of the home; the constant and continued
caressing of a mother; the gentle and intimate creations of one's native country where, by
degrees, the senses awaken to the marvellous sights of the outer world; where the alternating
seasons in their course first arouse the student's ambition and cause the heart of the adolescent
youth to thrill with emotion; where every street corner, every tree, every turn of the soil,
has some history to relate.  Julien had had no experiences of this peaceful family life, during
which are stored up such treasures of childhood's recollections.  He was the son of a government
official, who had been trotted over all France at the caprice of the administration, and he
had never known, so to speak, any associations of the land in which he was born, or the hearth
on which he was raised. Chance had located his birth in a small town among the Pyrenees, and
when he was two years old he had been transplanted to one of the industrial cities of Artois.
At the end of two years more came another removal to one of the midland towns, and thus his
tender childhood had been buffeted about, from east to west, from north to south, taking root
nowhere. All he could remember of these early years was an unpleasant impression of hasty packing
and removal, of long journeys by diligence, and of uncomfortable resettling.  His mother had
died just as he was entering upon his eighth year; his father, absorbed in official work, and
not caring to leave the child to the management of servants, had placed him at that early age
in a college directed by priests.  Julien thus passed his second term of childhood, and his
boyhood was spent behind these stern, gloomy walls, bending resignedly under a discipline which,
though gentle, was narrow and suspicious, and allowed little scope for personal development.
He obtained only occasional glimpses of nature during the monotonous daily walks across a flat,
meaningless country.  At very rare intervals, one of his father's colleagues would take him
visiting; but these stiff and ceremonious calls only left a wearisome sensation of restraint
and dull fatigue.  During the long vacation he used to rejoin his father, whom he almost always
found in a new residence.  The poor man had alighted there for a time, like a bird on a tree;
and among these continually shifting scenes, the lad had felt himself more than ever a stranger
among strangers; so that he experienced always a secret though joyless satisfaction in returning
to the cloisters of the St. Hilaire college and submitting himself to the yoke of the paternal
but inflexible discipline of the Church.

He was naturally inclined, by the tenderness of his nature, toward a devotional life, and accepted
with blind confidence the religious and moral teaching of the reverend fathers.  A doctrine
which preached separation from profane things; the attractions of a meditative and pious life,
and mistrust of the world and its perilous pleasures, harmonized with the shy and melancholy
timidity of his nature.  Human beings, especially women, inspired him with secret aversion,
which was increased by consciousness of his awkwardness and remissness whenever he found himself
in the society of women or young girls.

The beauties of nature did not affect him; the flowers in the springtime, the glories of the
summer sun, the rich coloring of autumn skies, having no connection in his mind with any joyous
recollection, left him cold and unmoved; he even professed an almost hostile indifference to
such purely material sights as disturbing and dangerous to the inner life.  He lived within
himself and could not see beyond.

His mind, imbued with a mystic idealism, delighted itself in solitary reading or in meditations
in the house of prayer.  The only emotion he ever betrayed was caused by the organ music accompanying
the hymnal plain-song, and by the pomp of religious ceremony.

At the age of eighteen, he left the St. Hilaire college in order to prepare his baccalaureate,
and his father, becoming alarmed at his increasing moodiness and mysticism, endeavored to infuse
into him the tastes and habits of a man of the world by introducing him into the society of
his equals in the town where he lived; but the twig was already bent, and the young man yielded
with bad grace to the change of regime; the amusements they offered were either wearisome or
repugnant to him.  He would wander aimlessly through the salons where they were playing whist,
where the ladies played show pieces at the piano, and where they spoke a language he did not
understand.  He was quite aware of his worldly inaptitude, and that he was considered awkward,
dull, and ill-tempered, and the knowledge of this fact paralyzed and frightened him still more.
He could not disguise his feeling of ennui sufficiently to prevent the provincial circles from
being greatly offended; they declared unanimously that young de Buxieres was a bear, and decided
to leave him alone.  The death of his father, which happened just as the youth was beginning
his official cares, put a sudden end to all this constraint. He took advantage of his season
of mourning to resume his old ways; and returned with a sigh of relief to his solitude, his
books, and his meditations.  According to the promise of the Imitation, he found unspeakable
joys in his retirement; he rose at break of day, assisted at early mass, fulfilled, conscientiously,
his administrative duties, took his hurried meals in a boardinghouse, where he exchanged a
few polite remarks with his fellow inmates, then shut himself up in his room to read Pascal
or Bossuet until eleven o'clock.

He thus attained his twenty-seventh year, and it was into the calm of this serious, cloister-like
life, that the news fell of the death of Claude de Buxieres and of the unexpected inheritance
that had accrued to him.

After entering into correspondence with the notary, M. Arbillot, and becoming assured of the
reality of his rights and of the necessity of his presence at Vivey, he had obtained leave
of absence from his official duties, and set out for Haute Marne.  On the way, he could not
help marvelling at the providential interposition which would enable him to leave a career
for which he felt he had no vocation, and to pursue his independent life, according to his
own tastes, and secured from any fear of outside cares.  According to the account given by
the notary, Claude de Buxieres's fortune might be valued at two hundred thousand francs, in
furniture and other movables, without reckoning the chateau and the adjacent woods.  This was
a much larger sum than had ever been dreamed of by Julien de Buxieres, whose belongings did
not amount in all to three thousand francs.  He made up his mind, therefore, that, as soon
as he was installed at Vivey, he would change his leave of absence to an unlimited furlough
of freedom.  He contemplated with serene satisfaction this perspective view of calm and solitary
retirement in a chateau lost to view in the depths of the forest, where he could in perfect
security give himself up to the studious contemplative life which he loved so much, far from
all worldly frivolities and restraint.  He already imagined himself at Vivey, shut up in his
carefully selected library; he delighted in the thought of having in future to deal only with
the country people, whose uncivilized ways would be like his own, and among whom his timidity
would not be remarked.

He arrived at Langres in the afternoon of a foggy October day, and inquired immediately at
the hotel how he could procure a carriage to take him that evening to Vivey.  They found him
a driver, but, to his surprise, the man refused to take the journey until the following morning,
on account of the dangerous state of the crossroads, where vehicles might stick fast in the
mire if they ventured there after nightfall.  Julien vainly endeavored to effect an arrangement
with him, and the discussion was prolonged in the courtyard of the hotel.  Just as the man
was turning away, another, who had overheard the end of the colloquy, came up to young de Buxieres,
and offered to undertake the journey for twenty francs.

"I have a good horse," said he to Julien; "I know the roads, and will guarantee that we reach
Vivey before nightfall."

The bargain was quickly made; and in half an hour, Julien de Buxieres was rolling over the
plain above Langres, in a shaky old cabriolet, the muddy hood of which bobbed over at every
turn of the wheel, while the horse kept up a lively trot over the stones.

The clouds were low, and the road lay across bare and stony prairies, the gray expanse of which
became lost in the distant mist.  This depressing landscape would have made a disagreeable
impression on a less unobserving traveller, but, as we have said, Julien looked only inward,
and the phenomena of the exterior world influenced him only unconsciously. Half closing his
eyes, and mechanically affected by the rhythmical tintinnabulation of the little bells, hanging
around the horse's neck, he had resumed his meditations, and considered how he should arrange
his life in this, to him, unknown country, which would probably be his own for some time to
come.  Nevertheless, when, at the end of the level plain, the road turned off into the wooded
region, the unusual aspect of the forest aroused his curiosity.  The tufted woods and lofty
trees, in endless succession under the fading light, impressed him by their profound solitude
and their religious silence.  His loneliness was in sympathy with the forest, which seemed
contemporary with the Sleeping Beauty of the wood, the verdant walls of which were to separate
him forever from the world of cities.  Henceforth, he could be himself, could move freely,
dress as he wished, or give way to his dreaming, without fearing to encounter the ironical
looks of idle and wondering neighbors. For the first time since his departure from his former
home, he experienced a feeling of joy and serenity; the influence of the surroundings, so much
in harmony with his wishes, unlocked his tongue, and made him communicative.

He made up his mind to speak to the guide, who was smoking at his side and whipping his horse.

"Are we far from Vivey now?"

"That depends, Monsieur--as the crow flies, the distance is not very great, and if we could
go by the roads, we should be there in one short hour.  Unfortunately, on turning by the Allofroy
farm, we shall have to leave the highroad and take the cross path; and then--my gracious! 
we shall plunge into the ditch down there, and into perdition."

"You told me that you were well acquainted with the roads!"

"I know them, and I do not know them.  When it comes to these crossroads, one is sure of nothing.
They change every year, and each new superintendent cuts a way out through the woods according
to his fancy. The devil himself could not find his way."

"Yet you have been to Vivey before?"

"Oh, yes; five or six years ago; I used often to take parties of hunters to the chateau.  Ah!
Monsieur, what a beautiful country it is for hunting; you can not take twenty steps along a
trench without seeing a stag or a deer."

"You have doubtless had the opportunity of meeting Monsieur Odouart de Buxieres?"

"Yes, indeed, Monsieur, more than once-ah!  he is a jolly fellow and a fine man--"

"He was," interrupted Julien, gravely, "for he is dead."

"Ah!  excuse me--I did not know it.  What! is he really dead?  So fine a man!  What we must
all come to.  Careful, now!"  added he, pulling in the reins, "we are leaving the highroad,
and must keep our eyes open."

The twilight was already deepening, the driver lighted his lantern, and the vehicle turned
into a narrow lane, half mud, half stone, and hedged in on both sides with wet brushwood, which
flapped noisily against the leathern hood.  After fifteen minutes' riding, the paths opened
upon a pasture, dotted here and there with juniper bushes, and thence divided into three lines,
along which ran the deep track of wagons, cutting the pasturage into small hillocks.  After
long hesitation, the man cracked his whip and took the right-hand path.

Julien began to fear that the fellow had boasted too much when he declared that he knew the
best way.  The ruts became deeper and deeper; the road was descending into a hole; suddenly,
the wheels became embedded up to the hub in thick, sticky mire, and the horse refused to move.
The driver jumped to the ground, swearing furiously; then he called Julien to help him to lift
out the wheel.  But the young man, slender and frail as he was, and not accustomed to using
his muscles, was not able to render much assistance.

"Thunder and lightning!"  cried the driver, "it is impossible to get out of this--let go the
wheel, Monsieur, you have no more strength than a chicken, and, besides, you don't know how
to go about it.  What a devil of a road!  But we can't spend the night here!"

"If we were to call out," suggested Julien, somewhat mortified at the inefficiency of his assistance,
"some one would perhaps come to our aid."

They accordingly shouted with desperation; and after five or six minutes, a voice hailed back.
A woodcutter, from one of the neighboring clearings, had heard the call, and was running toward
them.

"This way!"  cried the guide, "we are stuck fast in the mud.  Give us a lift."

The man came up and walked round the vehicle, shaking his head.

"You've got on to a blind road," said he, "and you'll have trouble in getting out of it, seeing
as how there's not light to go by.  You had better unharness the horse, and wait for daylight,
if you want to get your carriage out."

"And where shall we go for a bed?"  growled the driver; "there isn't even a house near in this
accursed wild country of yours!"

"Excuse me-you are not far from La Thuiliere; the farm people will not refuse you a bed, and
to-morrow morning they will help you to get your carriage out of the mud.  Unharness, comrade;
I will lead you as far as the Plancheau-Vacher; and from there you will see the windows of
the farmhouse."

The driver, still grumbling, decided to take his advice.  They unharnessed the horse; took
one of the lanterns of the carriage as a beacon, and followed slowly the line of pasture-land,
under the woodchopper's guidance.  At the end of about ten minutes, the forester pointed out
a light, twinkling at the extremity of a rustic path, bordered with moss.

"You have only to go straight ahead," said he, "besides, the barking of the dogs will guide
you.  Ask for Mamselle Vincart.  Good-night, gentlemen."

He turned on his heel, while Julien, bewildered, began to reproach himself for not having thanked
him enough.  The conductor went along with his lantern; young de Buxieres followed him with
eyes downcast.  Thus they continued silently until they reached the termination of the mossy
path, where a furious barking saluted their ears.

"Here we are," growled the driver, "fortunately the dogs are not yet let loose, or we should
pass a bad quarter of an hour!"

They pushed open a side-wicket and, standing in the courtyard, could see the house.  With the
exception of the luminous spot that reddened one of the windows of the ground floor, the long,
low facade was dark, and, as it were, asleep.  On the right, standing alone, outlined against
the sky, was the main building of the ancient forge, now used for granaries and stables; inside,
the frantic barking of the watch-dogs mingled with the bleating of the frightened sheep, the
neighing of horses, and the clanking of wooden shoes worn by the farm hands.  At the same moment,
the door of the house opened, and a servant, attracted by the uproar, appeared on the threshold,
a lantern in her hand.

"Hallo!  you people," she exclaimed sharply to the newcomers, who were advancing toward her,
"what do you want?"

The driver related, in a few words, the affair of the cabriolet, and asked whether they would
house him at the farm until the next day-- himself and the gentleman he was conducting to Vivey.

The girl raised the lantern above her head in order to scrutinize the two strangers; doubtless
their appearance and air of respectability reassured her, for she replied, in a milder voice:

"Well, that does not depend on me--I am not the mistress here, but come in, all the same--Mamselle
Reine can not be long now, and she will answer for herself."

As soon as the driver had fastened his horse to one of the outside posts of the wicket-gate,
the servant brought them into a large, square hall, in which a lamp, covered with a shade,
gave a moderate light.  She placed two chairs before the fire, which she drew together with
the poker.

"Warm yourselves while you are waiting," continued she, "it will not be long, and you must
excuse me--I must go and milk the cows--that is work which will not wait."

She reached the courtyard, and shut the gate after her, while Julien turned to examine the
room into which they had been shown, and felt a certain serenity creep over him at the clean
and cheerful aspect of this homely but comfortable interior.  The room served as both kitchen
and dining-room.  On the right of the flaring chimney, one of the cast-iron arrangements called
a cooking-stove was gently humming; the saucepans, resting on the bars, exhaled various appetizing
odors.  In the centre, the long, massive table of solid beech was already spread with its coarse
linen cloth, and the service was laid.  White muslin curtains fell in front of the large windows,
on the sills of which potted chrysanthemums spread their white, brown, and red blossoms.

Round the walls a shining battery of boilers, kettles, basins, and copper plates were hung
in symmetrical order.  On the dresser, near the clock, was a complete service of old Aprey
china, in bright and varied colors, and not far from the chimney, which was ornamented with
a crucifix of yellow copper, was a set of shelves, attached to the wall, containing three rows
of books, in gray linen binding.  Julien, approaching, read, not without surprise, some of
the titles: Paul and Virginia, La Fontaine's Fables, Gessner's Idylls, Don Quixote, and noticed
several odd volumes of the Picturesque Magazine.

Hanging from the whitened ceiling were clusters of nuts, twisted hemp, strings of yellow maize,
and chaplets of golden pippins tied with straw, all harmonizing in the dim light, and adding
increased fulness to the picture of thrift and abundance.

"It's jolly here!"  said the driver, smacking his lips, "and the smell which comes from that
oven makes one hungry.  I wish Mamselle Reine would arrive!"

Just as he said this, a mysterious falsetto voice, which seemed to come from behind the copper
basins, repeated, in an acrid voice: "Reine! Reine!"

"What in the world is that?"  exclaimed the driver, puzzled.

Both looked toward the beams; at the same moment there was a rustling of wings, a light hop,
and a black-and-white object flitted by, resting, finally, on one of the shelves hanging from
the joists.

"Ha, ha!"  said the driver, laughing, "it is only a magpie!"

He had hardly said it, when, like a plaintive echo, another voice, a human voice this time,
childish and wavering, proceeding from a dark corner, faltered: "Rei-eine--Rei-eine!"

"Hark!" murmured Julien," some one answered."

His companion seized the lamp, and advanced toward the portion of the room left in shadow.
Suddenly he stopped short, and stammered some vague excuse.

Julien, who followed him, then perceived, with alarm, in a sort of niche formed by two screens,
entirely covered with illustrations from Epinal, a strange-looking being stretched in an easy-chair,
which was covered with pillows and almost hidden under various woolen draperies.  He was dressed
in a long coat of coarse, pale-blue cloth.  He was bareheaded, and his long, white hair formed
a weird frame for a face of bloodless hue and meagre proportions, from which two vacant eyes
stared fixedly.  He sat immovable and his arms hung limply over his knees.

"Monsieur," said Julien, bowing ceremoniously, "we are quite ashamed at having disturbed you.
Your servant forgot to inform us of your presence, and we were waiting for Mademoiselle Reine,
without thinking that--"

The old man continued immovable, not seeming to understand; he kept repeating, in the same
voice, like a frightened child:

"Rei-eine!  Rei-eine!"

The two bewildered travellers gazed at this sepulchral-looking personage, then at each other
interrogatively, and began to feel very uncomfortable. The magpie, perched upon the hanging
shelf, suddenly flapped his wings, and repeated, in his turn, in falsetto:

"Reine, queen of the woods!"

"Here I am, papa, don't get uneasy!"  said a clear, musical voice behind them.

The door had been suddenly opened, and Reine Vincart had entered.  She wore on her head a white
cape or hood, and held in front of her an enormous bouquet of glistening leaves, which seemed
to have been gathered as specimens of all the wild fruit-trees of the forest: the brown beam-
berries, the laburnums, and wild cherry, with their red, transparent fruit, the bluish mulberry,
the orange-clustered mountain-ash.  All this forest vegetation, mingling its black or purple
tints with the dark, moist leaves, brought out the whiteness of the young girl's complexion,
her limpid eyes, and her brown curls escaping from her hood.

Julien de Buxieres and his companion had turned at the sound of Reine's voice.  As soon as
she perceived them, she went briskly toward them, exclaiming:

"What are you doing here?  Don't you see that you are frightening him?"

Julien, humbled and mortified, murmured an excuse, and got confused in trying to relate the
incident of the carriage.  She interrupted him hurriedly:

"The carriage, oh, yes--La Guitiote spoke to me about it.  Well, your carriage will be attended
to!  Go and sit down by the fire, gentlemen; we will talk about it presently."

She had taken the light from the driver, and placed it on an adjacent table with her plants.
In the twinkling of an eye, she removed her hood, unfastened her shawl, and then knelt down
in front of the sick man, after kissing him tenderly on the forehead.  From the corner where
Julien had seated himself, he could hear her soothing voice.  Its caressing tones contrasted
pleasantly with the harsh accent of a few minutes before.

"You were longing for me, papa," said she, "but you see, I could not leave before all the sacks
of potatoes had been laid in the wagon. Now everything has been brought in, and we can sleep
in peace.  I thought of you on the way, and I have brought you a fine bouquet of wild fruits.
We shall enjoy looking them over tomorrow, by daylight.  Now, this is the time that you are
to drink your bouillon like a good papa, and then as soon as we have had our supper Guite and
I will put you to bed nice and warm, and I will sing you a song to send you to sleep."

She rose, took from the sideboard a bowl which she filled from a saucepan simmering on the
stove, and then, without taking any notice of her visitors, she returned to the invalid.  Slowly
and with delicate care she made him swallow the soup by spoonfuls.  Julien, notwithstanding
the feeling of ill-humor caused by the untoward happenings of the evening, could not help admiring
the almost maternal tenderness with which the young girl proceeded in this slow and difficult
operation.  When the bowl was empty she returned to the stove, and at last bethought herself
of her guests.

"Excuse me, Monsieur, but I had to attend to my father first.  If I understood quite aright,
you were going to Vivey."

"Yes, Mademoiselle, I had hoped to sleep there tonight."

"You have probably come," continued she, "on business connected with the chateau.  Is not the
heir of Monsieur Odouart expected very shortly?"

"I am that heir," replied Julien, coloring.

"You are Monsieur de Buxieres?"  exclaimed Reine, in astonishment.  Then, embarrassed at having
shown her surprise too openly, she checked herself, colored in her turn, and finally gave a
rapid glance at her interlocutor. She never should have imagined this slender young man, so
melancholy in aspect, to be the new proprietor--he was so unlike the late Odouart de Buxieres!

"Pardon me, Monsieur," continued she, "you must have thought my first welcome somewhat unceremonious,
but my first thought was for my father. He is a great invalid, as you may have noticed, and
for the first moment I feared that he had been startled by strange faces."

"It is I, Mademoiselle," replied Julien, with embarrassment, "it is I who ought to ask pardon
for having caused all this disturbance.  But I do not intend to trouble you any longer.  If
you will kindly furnish us with a guide who will direct us to the road to Vivey, we will depart
to-night and sleep at the chateau."

"No, indeed," protested Reine, very cordially.  "You are my guests, and I shall not allow you
to leave us in that manner.  Besides, you would probably find the gates closed down there,
for I do not think they expected you so soon."

During this interview, the servant who had received the travellers had returned with her milk-pail;
behind her, the other farm-hands, men and women, arranged themselves silently round the table.

"Guitiote," said Reine, "lay two more places at the table.  The horse belonging to these gentlemen
has been taken care of, has he not?"

"Yes, Mamselle, he is in the stable," replied one of the grooms.

"Good!  Bernard, to-morrow you will take Fleuriot with you, and go in search of their carriage
which has been swamped in the Planche-au-Vacher. That is settled.  Now, Monsieur de Buxieres,
will you proceed to table-- and your coachman also?  Upon my word, I do not know whether our
supper will be to your liking.  I can only offer you a plate of soup, a chine of pork, and
cheese made in the country; but you must be hungry, and when one has a good appetite, one is
not hard to please."

Every one had been seated at the table; the servants at the lower end, and Reine Vincart, near
the fireplace, between M. de Buxieres and the driver.  La Guite helped the cabbage-soup all
around; soon nothing was heard but the clinking of spoons and smacking of lips.  Julien, scarcely
recovered from his bewilderment, watched furtively the pretty, robust young girl presiding
at the supper, and keeping, at the same time, a watchful eye over all the details of service.
He thought her strange; she upset all his ideas.  His own imagination and his theories pictured
a woman, and more especially a young girl, as a submissive, modest, shadowy creature, with
downcast look, only raising her eyes to consult her husband or her mother as to what is allowable
and what is forbidden. Now, Reine did not fulfil any of the requirements of this ideal.  She
seemed to be hardly twenty-two years old, and she acted with the initiative genius, the frankness
and the decision of a man, retaining all the while the tenderness and easy grace of a woman.
Although it was evident that she was accustomed to govern and command, there was nothing in
her look, gesture, or voice which betrayed any assumption of masculinity.  She remained a young
girl while in the very act of playing the virile part of head of the house.  But what astonished
Julien quite as much was that she seemed to have received a degree of education superior to
that of people of her condition, and he wondered at the amount of will-power by which a nature
highly cultivated, relatively speaking, could conform to the unrefined, rough surroundings
in which she was placed.

While Julien was immersed in these reflections, and continued eating with an abstracted air,
Reine Vincart was rapidly examining the reserved, almost ungainly, young man, who did not dare
address any conversation to her, and who was equally stiff and constrained with those sitting
near him.  She made a mental comparison of him with Claudet, the bold huntsman, alert, resolute,
full of dash and spirit, and a feeling of charitable compassion arose in her heart at the thought
of the reception which the Sejournant family would give to this new master, so timid and so
little acquainted with the ways and dispositions of country folk. Julien did not impress her
as being able to defend himself against the ill-will of persons who would consider him an intruder,
and would certainly endeavor to make him pay dearly for the inheritance of which he had deprived
them.

"You do not take your wine, Monsieur de Buxieres!"  said she, noticing that her guest's glass
was still full.

"I am not much of a wine-drinker," replied he, "and besides, I never take wine by itself--I
should be obliged if you would have some water brought."

Reine smiled, and passed him the water-bottle.

"Indeed?"  she said, "in that case, you have not fallen among congenial spirits, for in these
mountains they like good dinners, and have a special weakness for Burgundy.  You follow the
chase, at any rate?"

"No, Mademoiselle, I do not know how to handle a gun!"

"I suppose it is not your intention to settle in Vivey?"

"Why not?"  replied he; "on the contrary, I intend to inhabit the chateau, and establish myself
there definitely."

"What!" exclaimed Reine, laughing, "you neither drink nor hunt, and you intend to live in our
woods!  Why, my poor Monsieur, you will die of ennui."

"I shall have my books for companions; besides, solitude never has had any terrors for me."

The young girl shook her head incredulously.

"I shouldn't wonder," she continued, "if you do not even play at cards."

"Never; games of chance are repugnant to me."

"Take notice that I do not blame you," she replied, gayly, "but I must give you one piece of
advice: don't speak in these neighborhoods of your dislike of hunting, cards, or good wine;
our country folk would feel pity for you, and that would destroy your prestige."

Julien gazed at her with astonishment.  She turned away to give directions to La Guite about
the beds for her guests--then the supper went on silently.  As soon as they had swallowed their
last mouthful, the menservants repaired to their dormitory, situated in the buildings of the
ancient forge.  Reine Vincart rose also.

"This is the time when I put my father to bed--I am obliged to take leave of you, Monsieur
de Buxieres.  Guitiote will conduct you to your room. For you, driver, I have had a bed made
in a small room next to the furnace; you will be nice and warm.  Good-night, gentlemen, sleep
well!"

She turned away, and went to rejoin the paralytic sufferer, who, as she approached, manifested
his joy by a succession of inarticulate sounds.

The room to which Guitiote conducted Julien was on the first floor, and had a cheerful, hospitable
appearance.  The walls were whitewashed; the chairs, table, and bed were of polished oak; a
good fire of logs crackled in the fireplace, and between the opening of the white window-curtains
could be seen a slender silver crescent of moon gliding among the flitting clouds.  The young
man went at once to his bed; but notwithstanding the fatigues of the day, sleep did not come
to him. Through the partition he could hear the clear, sonorous voice of Reine singing her
father to sleep with one of the popular ballads of the country, and while turning and twisting
in the homespun linen sheets, scented with orrisroot, he could not help thinking of this young
girl, so original in her ways, whose grace, energy, and frankness fascinated and shocked him
at the same time.  At last he dozed off; and when the morning stir awoke him, the sun was up
and struggling through the foggy atmosphere.

The sky had cleared during the night; there had been a frost, and the meadows were powdered
white.  The leaves, just nipped with the frost, were dropping softly to the ground, and formed
little green heaps at the base of the trees.  Julien dressed himself hurriedly, and descended
to the courtyard, where the first thing he saw was the cabriolet, which had been brought in
the early morning and which one of the farm-boys was in the act of sousing with water in the
hope of freeing the hood and wheels from the thick mud which covered them.  When he entered
the diningroom, brightened by the rosy rays of the morning sun, he found Reine Vincart there
before him.  She was dressed in a yellow striped woolen skirt, and a jacket of white flannel
carelessly belted at the waist.  Her dark chestnut hair, parted down the middle and twisted
into a loose knot behind, lay in ripples round her smooth, open forehead.

"Good-morning, Monsieur de Buxieres," said she, in her cordial tone, "did you sleep well? 
Yes?  I am glad.  You find me busy attending to household matters.  My father is still in bed,
and I am taking advantage of the fact to arrange his little corner.  The doctor said he must
not be put near the fire, so I have made a place for him here; he enjoys it immensely, and
I arranged this nook to protect him from draughts."

And she showed him how she had put the big easy chair, padded with cushions, in the bright
sunlight which streamed through the window, and shielded by the screens, one on each side.
She noticed that Julien was examining, with some curiosity, the uncouth pictures from Epinal,
with which the screens were covered.

"This," she explained, "is my own invention.  My father is a little weak in the head, but he
understands a good many things, although he can not talk about them.  He used to get weary
of sitting still all day in his chair, so I lined the screens with these pictures in order
that he might have something to amuse him.  He is as pleased as a child with the bright colors,
and I explain the subjects to him.  I don't tell him much at a time, for fear of fatiguing
him.  We have got now to Pyramus and Thisbe, so that we shall have plenty to occupy us before
we reach the end."

