He allowed that I was his property, the captive of his spear. There was argument on his side--and
the bulk of the advantage --so I judged it best to humor him.  We fixed up an agreement whereby
I was to go with him and he was not to hurt me.  I came down, and we started away, I walking
by the side of his horse. We marched comfortably along, through glades and over brooks which
I could not remember to have seen before--which puzzled me and made me wonder--and yet we did
not come to any circus or sign of a circus.  So I gave up the idea of a circus, and concluded
he was from an asylum.  But we never came to an asylum--so I was up a stump, as you may say.
I asked him how far we were from Hartford. He said he had never heard of the place; which I
took to be a lie, but allowed it to go at that.  At the end of an hour we saw a far-away town
sleeping in a valley by a winding river; and beyond it on a hill, a vast gray fortress, with
towers and turrets, the first I had ever seen out of a picture.

"Bridgeport?" said I, pointing.

"Camelot," said he.

My stranger had been showing signs of sleepiness.  He caught himself nodding, now, and smiled
one of those pathetic, obsolete smiles of his, and said:

"I find I can't go on; but come with me, I've got it all written out, and you can read it if
you like."

In his chamber, he said: "First, I kept a journal; then by and by, after years, I took the
journal and turned it into a book. How long ago that was!"

He handed me his manuscript, and pointed out the place where I should begin:

"Begin here--I've already told you what goes before."  He was steeped in drowsiness by this
time.  As I went out at his door I heard him murmur sleepily: "Give you good den, fair sir."

I sat down by my fire and examined my treasure.  The first part of it--the great bulk of it--was
parchment, and yellow with age. I scanned a leaf particularly and saw that it was a palimpsest.
Under the old dim writing of the Yankee historian appeared traces of a penmanship which was
older and dimmer still--Latin words and sentences: fragments from old monkish legends, evidently.
I turned to the place indicated by my stranger and began to read --as follows:

THE TALE OF THE LOST LAND

CHAPTER I

CAMELOT

"Camelot--Camelot," said I to myself.  "I don't seem to remember hearing of it before.  Name
of the asylum, likely."

It was a soft, reposeful summer landscape, as lovely as a dream, and as lonesome as Sunday.
The air was full of the smell of flowers, and the buzzing of insects, and the twittering of
birds, and there were no people, no wagons, there was no stir of life, nothing going on.  The
road was mainly a winding path with hoof-prints in it, and now and then a faint trace of wheels
on either side in the grass--wheels that apparently had a tire as broad as one's hand.

Presently a fair slip of a girl, about ten years old, with a cataract of golden hair streaming
down over her shoulders, came along. Around her head she wore a hoop of flame-red poppies.
It was as sweet an outfit as ever I saw, what there was of it.  She walked indolently along,
with a mind at rest, its peace reflected in her innocent face.  The circus man paid no attention
to her; didn't even seem to see her.  And she--she was no more startled at his fantastic make-up
than if she was used to his like every day of her life.  She was going by as indifferently
as she might have gone by a couple of cows; but when she happened to notice me, then there
was a change!  Up went her hands, and she was turned to stone; her mouth dropped open, her
eyes stared wide and timorously, she was the picture of astonished curiosity touched with fear.
And there she stood gazing, in a sort of stupefied fascination, till we turned a corner of
the wood and were lost to her view.