When the sloop Restless made ready to sail the next day there was a fine flurry in the harbour.
Nothing of the kind had ever before happened there. Two ladies and a most respectable old gentleman
sailing away under the skull and cross-bones! That was altogether new in the Caribbean Sea.
To those who talked to him about his quixotic expedition, Captain Ichabod swore--and at times,
as many men knew, he was a great hand at being in earnest--that if he carried not his passengers
through their troubles and to a place of safety, the Restless, and all on board of her, should
mount to the skies in a thousand bits. Although this alternative would not have been very comforting
to said passengers if they had known of it, it came from Captain Ichabod's heart, and showed
what sort of a man he was.

Old Captain Sorby came to the Restless in a boat, and having previously washed one hand, came
on board and bade them all good-bye with great earnestness.

"You will catch him," said he to Kate, "and my advice to you is, when you get him, hang him.
That's the only way to keep him out of mischief. But as you are his daughter, you may not like
to string him up, so I say put irons on him. If you don't he'll be playin' you some other wild
trick. He is not fit for a pirate, anyway, and he ought to be taken back to his calves and
his chickens."

Kate did not resent this language; she even smiled, a little sadly. She had a great work before
her, and she could not mind trifles.

None of the other pirates came on board, for they were afraid of Sorby, and when that great
man had made the round of the decks and had given Captain Ichabod some bits of advice, he got
down into his boat. The anchor was weighed, the sails hoisted, and, amid shouts and cheers
from a dozen small boats containing some of the most terrible and bloody sea-robbers who had
ever infested the face of the waters, the Restless sailed away: the only pirate ship which
had, perhaps, ever left port followed by blessings and goodwill; goodwill, although the words
which expressed it were curses and the men who waved their hats were blasphemers and cut-throats.

Away sailed our gentle and most respectable party, with the Jolly Roger floating boldly high
above them. Kate, looking skyward, noticed this and took courage to bewail the fact to Captain
Ichabod.

He smiled. "While we're in sight of my Brethren of the Coast," he said, "our skull and bones
must wave, but when we're well out at sea we will run up an English flag, if it please you."

CHAPTER XXX

DAME CHARTER MAKES A FRIEND

Captain Ichabod was in high feather. He whistled, he sang, and he kept his men cleaning things.
All that he could do for the comfort of his passengers he did, even going so far as to drop
as many of his "bedads" as possible. Whenever he had an opportunity, and these came frequently,
he talked to Mr. Delaplaine, addressing a word or two to Kate if he thought she looked gracious.
For the first day or two Dame Charter kept below. She was afraid of the men, and did not even
want to look at them if she could help it.

"But the good woman's all wrong," said Captain Ichabod to Mr. Delaplaine; "my men would not
hurt her. They're not the most tremendous kind of pirates, anyway, for I could not afford that
sort. I have often thought that I could make more profitable voyages if I had a savager lot
of men. I'll tell you, sir, we once tried to board a big Spanish galleon, and the beastly foreigners
beat us off, bedad, and we had a hard time of it gettin' away. There are three or four good
fellows in the crew, tough old rascals who came with the sloop when I bought her, but most
of my men are but poor knaves, and not to be afraid of."

