One conspicuous peculiarity of the early aerial fighting arose from the profound secrecy with
which the airships had been prepared. Each power had had but the dimmest inkling of the schemes
of its rivals, and even experiments with its own devices were limited by the needs of secrecy.
None of the designers of airships and aeroplanes had known clearly what their inventions might
have to fight; many had not imagined they would have to fight anything whatever in the air;
and had planned them only for the dropping of explosives. Such had been the German idea. The
only weapon for fighting another airship with which the Franconian fleet had been provided
was the machine gun forward. Only after the fight over New York were the men given short rifles
with detonating bullets. Theoretically, the drachenflieger were to have been the fighting weapon.
They were declared to be aerial torpedo-boats, and the aeronaut was supposed to swoop close
to his antagonist and cast his bombs as he whirled past. But indeed these contrivances were
hopelessly unstable; not one-third in any engagement succeeded in getting back to the mother
airship. The rest were either smashed up or grounded.

The allied Chino-Japanese fleet made the same distinction as the Germans between airships and
fighting machines heavier than air, but the type in both cases was entirely different from
the occidental models, and--it is eloquent of the vigour with which these great peoples took
up and bettered the European methods of scientific research in almost every particular the
invention of Asiatic engineers. Chief among these, it is worth remarking, was Mohini K. Chatterjee,
a political exile who had formerly served in the British-Indian aeronautic park at Lahore.

The German airship was fish-shaped, with a blunted head; the Asiatic airship was also fish-shaped,
but not so much on the lines of a cod or goby as of a ray or sole. It had a wide, flat underside,
unbroken by windows or any opening except along the middle line. Its cabins occupied its axis,
with a sort of bridge deck above, and the gas-chambers gave the whole affair the shape of a
gipsy's hooped tent, except that it was much flatter. The German airship was essentially a
navigable balloon very much lighter than air; the Asiatic airship was very little lighter than
air and skimmed through it with much greater velocity if with considerably less stability.
They carried fore and aft guns, the latter much the larger, throwing inflammatory shells, and
in addition they had nests for riflemen on both the upper and the under side. Light as this
armament was in comparison with the smallest gunboat that ever sailed, it was sufficient for
them to outfight as well as outfly the German monster airships. In action they flew to get
behind or over the Germans: they even dashed underneath, avoiding only passing immediately
beneath the magazine, and then as soon as they had crossed let fly with their rear gun, and
sent flares or oxygen shells into the antagonist's gas-chambers.

It was not in their airships, but, as I have said, in their flying-machines proper, that the
strength of the Asiatics lay. Next only to the Butteridge machine, these were certainly the
most efficient heavier-than-air fliers that had ever appeared. They were the invention of a
Japanese artist, and they differed in type extremely from the box-kite quality of the German
drachenflieger. They had curiously curved, flexible side wings, more like BENT butterfly's
wings than anything else, and made of a substance like celluloid and of brightly painted silk,
and they had a long humming-bird tail. At the forward corner of the wings were hooks, rather
like the claws of a bat, by which the machine could catch and hang and tear at the walls of
an airship's gas-chamber. The solitary rider sat between the wings above a transverse explosive
engine, an explosive engine that differed in no essential particular from those in use in the
light motor bicycles of the period. Below was a single large wheel. The rider sat astride of
a saddle, as in the Butteridge machine, and he carried a large double-edged two-handed sword,
in addition to his explosive-bullet firing rifle.

3

One sets down these particulars and compares the points of the American and German pattern
of aeroplane and navigable, but none of these facts were clearly known to any of those who
fought in this monstrously confused battle above the American great lakes.

Each side went into action against it knew not what, under novel conditions and with apparatus
that even without hostile attacks was capable of producing the most disconcerting surprises.
Schemes of action, attempts at collective manoeuvring necessarily went to pieces directly the
fight began, just as they did in almost all the early ironclad battles of the previous century.
Each captain then had to fall back upon individual action and his own devices; one would see
triumph in what another read as a cue for flight and despair. It is as true of the Battle of
Niagara as of the Battle of Lissa that it was not a battle but a bundle of "battlettes"!

To such a spectator as Bert it presented itself as a series of incidents, some immense, some
trivial, but collectively incoherent. He never had a sense of any plain issue joined, of any
point struggled for and won or lost. He saw tremendous things happen and in the end his world
darkened to disaster and ruin.

He saw the battle from the ground, from Prospect Park and from Goat Island, whither he fled.

But the manner in which he came to be on the ground needs explaining.

The Prince had resumed command of his fleet through wireless telegraphy long before the Zeppelin
had located his encampment in Labrador. By his direction the German air-fleet, whose advance
scouts had been in contact with the Japanese over the Rocky Mountains, had concentrated upon
Niagara and awaited his arrival. He had rejoined his command early in the morning of the twelfth,
and Bert had his first prospect of the Gorge of Niagara while he was doing net drill outside
the middle gas-chamber at sunrise. The Zeppelin was flying very high at the time, and far below
he saw the water in the gorge marbled with froth and then away to the west the great crescent
of the Canadian Fall shining, flickering and foaming in the level sunlight and sending up a
deep, incessant thudding rumble to the sky. The air-fleet was keeping station in an enormous
crescent, with its horns pointing south-westward, a long array of shining monsters with tails
rotating slowly and German ensigns now trailing from their bellies aft of their Marconi pendants.

Niagara city was still largely standing then, albeit its streets were empty of all life. Its
bridges were intact; its hotels and restaurants still flying flags and inviting sky signs;
its power-stations running. But about it the country on both sides of the gorge might have
been swept by a colossal broom. Everything that could possibly give cover to an attack upon
the German position at Niagara had been levelled as ruthlessly as machinery and explosives
could contrive; houses blown up and burnt, woods burnt, fences and crops destroyed. The mono-rails
had been torn up, and the roads in particular cleared of all possibility of concealment or
shelter. Seen from above, the effect of this wreckage was grotesque. Young woods had been destroyed
whole-sale by dragging wires, and the spoilt saplings, smashed or uprooted, lay in swathes
like corn after the sickle. Houses had an appearance of being flattened down by the pressure
of a gigantic finger. Much burning was still going on, and large areas had been reduced to
patches of smouldering and sometimes still glowing blackness.

Here and there lay the debris of belated fugitives, carts, and dead bodies of horses and men;
and where houses had had water-supplies there were pools of water and running springs from
the ruptured pipes. In unscorched fields horses and cattle still fed peacefully. Beyond this
desolated area the countryside was still standing, but almost all the people had fled. Buffalo
was on fire to an enormous extent, and there were no signs of any efforts to grapple with the
flames. Niagara city itself was being rapidly converted to the needs of a military depot. A
large number of skilled engineers had already been brought from the fleet and were busily at
work adapting the exterior industrial apparatus of the place to the purposes of an aeronautic
park. They had made a gas recharging station at the corner of the American Fall above the funicular
railway, and they were, opening up a much larger area to the south for the same purpose. Over
the power-houses and hotels and suchlike prominent or important points the German flag was flying.

The Zeppelin circled slowly over this scene twice while the Prince surveyed it from the swinging
gallery; it then rose towards the centre of the crescent and transferred the Prince and his
suite, Kurt included, to the Hohenzollern, which had been chosen as the flagship during the
impending battle. They were swung up on a small cable from the forward gallery, and the men
of the Zeppelin manned the outer netting as the Prince and his staff left them. The Zeppelin
then came about, circled down and grounded in Prospect Park, in order to land the wounded and
take aboard explosives; for she had come to Labrador with her magazines empty, it being uncertain
what weight she might need to carry. She also replenished the hydrogen in one of her forward
chambers which had leaked.

Bert was detailed as a bearer and helped carry the wounded one by one into the nearest of the
large hotels that faced the Canadian shore. The hotel was quite empty except that there were
two trained American nurses and a negro porter, and three or four Germans awaiting them. Bert
went with the Zeppelin's doctor into the main street of the place, and they broke into a drug
shop and obtained various things of which they stood in need. As they returned they found an
officer and two men making a rough inventory of the available material in the various stores.
Except for them the wide, main street of the town was quite deserted, the people had been given
three hours to clear out, and everybody, it seemed, had done so. At one corner a dead man lay
against the wall--shot. Two or three dogs were visible up the empty vista, but towards its
river end the passage of a string of mono-rail cars broke the stillness and the silence. They
were loaded with hose, and were passing to the trainful of workers who were converting Prospect
Park into an airship dock.

Bert pushed a case of medicine balanced on a bicycle taken from an adjacent shop, to the hotel,
and then he was sent to load bombs into the Zeppelin magazine, a duty that called for elaborate
care. From this job he was presently called off by the captain of the Zeppelin, who sent him
with a note to the officer in charge of the Anglo-American Power Company, for the field telephone
had still to be adjusted. Bert received his instructions in German, whose meaning he guessed,
and saluted and took the note, not caring to betray his ignorance of the language. He started
off with a bright air of knowing his way and turned a corner or so, and was only beginning
to suspect that he did not know where he was going when his attention was recalled to the sky
by the report of a gun from the Hohenzollern and celestial cheering.

He looked up and found the view obstructed by the houses on either side of the street. He hesitated,
and then curiosity took him back towards the bank of the river. Here his view was inconvenienced
by trees, and it was with a start that he discovered the Zeppelin, which he knew had still
a quarter of her magazines to fill, was rising over Goat Island. She had not waited for her
complement of ammunition. It occurred to him that he was left behind. He ducked back among
the trees and bushes until he felt secure from any after-thought on the part of the Zeppelin's
captain. Then his curiosity to see what the German air-fleet faced overcame him, and drew him
at last halfway across the bridge to Goat Island.

From that point he had nearly a hemisphere of sky and got his first glimpse of the Asiatic
airships low in the sky above the glittering tumults of the Upper Rapids.

They were far less impressive than the German ships. He could not judge the distance, and they
flew edgeways to him, so as to conceal the broader aspect of their bulk.

Bert stood there in the middle of the bridge, in a place that most people who knew it remembered
as a place populous with sightseers and excursionists, and he was the only human being in sight
there. Above him, very high in the heavens, the contending air-fleets manoeuvred; below him
the river seethed like a sluice towards the American Fall. He was curiously dressed. His cheap
blue serge trousers were thrust into German airship rubber boots, and on his head he wore an
aeronaut's white cap that was a trifle too large for him. He thrust that back to reveal his
staring little Cockney face, still scarred upon the brow. "Gaw!" he whispered.

He stared. He gesticulated. Once or twice he shouted and applauded.

Then at a certain point terror seized him and he took to his heels in the direction of Goat Island.

4

For a time after they were in sight of each other, neither fleet attempted to engage. The Germans
numbered sixty-seven great airships and they maintained the crescent formation at a height
of nearly four thousand feet. They kept a distance of about one and a half lengths, so that
the horns of the crescent were nearly thirty miles apart. Closely in tow of the airships of
the extreme squadrons on either wing were about thirty drachenflieger ready manned, but these
were too small and distant for Bert to distinguish.

At first, only what was called the Southern fleet of the Asiatics was visible to him. It consisted
of forty airships, carrying all together nearly four hundred one-man flying-machines upon their
flanks, and for some time it flew slowly and at a minimum distance of perhaps a dozen miles
from the Germans, eastward across their front. At first Bert could distinguish only the greater
bulks, then he perceived the one-man machines as a multitude of very small objects drifting
like motes in the sunshine about and beneath the larger shapes.

Bert saw nothing then of the second fleet of the Asiatics, though probably that was coming
into sight of the Germans at the time, in the north-west.

The air was very still, the sky almost without a cloud, and the German fleet had risen to an
immense height, so that the airships seemed no longer of any considerable size. Both ends of
their crescent showed plainly. As they beat southward they passed slowly between Bert and the
sunlight, and became black outlines of themselves. The drachenflieger appeared as little flecks
of black on either wing of this aerial Armada.

The two fleets seemed in no hurry to engage. The Asiatics went far away into the east, quickening
their pace and rising as they did so, and then tailed out into a long column and came flying
back, rising towards the German left. The squadrons of the latter came about, facing this oblique
advance, and suddenly little flickerings and a faint crepitating sound told that they had opened
fire. For a time no effect was visible to the watcher on the bridge. Then, like a handful of
snowflakes, the drachenflieger swooped to the attack, and a multitude of red specks whirled
up to meet them. It was to Bert's sense not only enormously remote but singularly inhuman.
Not four hours since he had been on one of those very airships, and yet they seemed to him
now not gas-bags carrying men, but strange sentient creatures that moved about and did things
with a purpose of their own. The flight of the Asiatic and German flying-machines joined and
dropped earthward, became like a handful of white and red rose petals flung from a distant
window, grew larger, until Bert could see the overturned ones spinning through the air, and
were hidden by great volumes of dark smoke that were rising in the direction of Buffalo. For
a time they all were hidden, then two or three white and a number of red ones rose again into
the sky, like a swarm of big butterflies, and circled fighting and drove away out of sight
again towards the east.

A heavy report recalled Bert's eyes to the zenith, and behold, the great crescent had lost
its dressing and burst into a disorderly long cloud of airships! One had dropped halfway down
the sky. It was flaming fore and aft, and even as Bert looked it turned over and fell, spinning
over and over itself and vanished into the smoke of Buffalo.

Bert's mouth opened and shut, and he clutched tighter on the rail of the bridge. For some moments--they
seemed long moments--the two fleets remained without any further change flying obliquely towards
each other, and making what came to Bert's ears as a midget uproar. Then suddenly from either
side airships began dropping out of alignment, smitten by missiles he could neither see nor
trace. The string of Asiatic ships swung round and either charged into or over (it was difficult
to say from below) the shattered line of the Germans, who seemed to open out to give way to
them. Some sort of manoeuvring began, but Bert could not grasp its import. The left of the
battle became a confused dance of airships. For some minutes up there the two crossing lines
of ships looked so close it seemed like a hand-to-hand scuffle in the sky. Then they broke
up into groups and duels. The descent of German air-ships towards the lower sky increased.
One of them flared down and vanished far away in the north; two dropped with something twisted
and crippled in their movements; then a group of antagonists came down from the zenith in an
eddying conflict, two Asiatics against one German, and were presently joined by another, and
drove away eastward all together with others dropping out of the German line to join them.

One Asiatic either rammed or collided with a still more gigantic German, and the two went spinning
to destruction together. The northern squadron of Asiatics came into the battle unnoted by
Bert, except that the multitude of ships above seemed presently increased. In a little while
the fight was utter confusion, drifting on the whole to the southwest against the wind. It
became more and more a series of group encounters. Here a huge German airship flamed earthward
with a dozen flat Asiatic craft about her, crushing her every attempt to recover. Here another
hung with its screw fighting off the swordsman from a swarm of flying-machines. Here, again,
an Asiatic aflame at either end swooped out of the battle. His attention went from incident
to incident in the vast clearness overhead; these conspicuous cases of destruction caught and
held his mind; it was only very slowly that any sort of scheme manifested itself between those
nearer, more striking episodes.

The mass of the airships that eddied remotely above was, however, neither destroying nor destroyed.
The majority of them seemed to be going at full speed and circling upward for position, exchanging
ineffectual shots as they did so. Very little ramming was essayed after the first tragic downfall
of rammer and rammed, and what ever attempts at boarding were made were invisible to Bert.
There seemed, however, a steady attempt to isolate antagonists, to cut them off from their
fellows and bear them down, causing a perpetual sailing back and interlacing of these shoaling
bulks. The greater numbers of the Asiatics and their swifter heeling movements gave them the
effect of persistently attacking the Germans. Overhead, and evidently endeavouring to keep
itself in touch with the works of Niagara, a body of German airships drew itself together into
a compact phalanx, and the Asiatics became more and more intent upon breaking this up. He was
grotesquely reminded of fish in a fish-pond struggling for crumbs. He could see puny puffs
of smoke and the flash of bombs, but never a sound came down to him....

A flapping shadow passed for a moment between Bert and the sun and was followed by another.
A whirring of engines, click, clock, clitter clock, smote upon his ears. Instantly he forgot
the zenith.

Perhaps a hundred yards above the water, out of the south, riding like Valkyries swiftly through
the air on the strange steeds the engineering of Europe had begotten upon the artistic inspiration
of Japan, came a long string of Asiatic swordsman. The wings flapped jerkily, click, block,
clitter clock, and the machines drove up; they spread and ceased, and the apparatus came soaring
through the air. So they rose and fell and rose again. They passed so closely overhead that
Bert could hear their voices calling to one another. They swooped towards Niagara city and
landed one after another in a long line in a clear space before the hotel. But he did not stay
to watch them land. One yellow face had craned over and looked at him, and for one enigmatical
instant met his eyes....

It was then the idea came to Bert that he was altogether too conspicuous in the middle of the
bridge, and that he took to his heels towards Goat Island. Thence, dodging about among the
trees, with perhaps an excessive self-consciousness, he watched the rest of the struggle.

5

When Bert's sense of security was sufficiently restored for him to watch the battle again,
he perceived that a brisk little fight was in progress between the Asiatic aeronauts and the
German engineers for the possession of Niagara city. It was the first time in the whole course
of the war that he had seen anything resembling fighting as he had studied it in the illustrated
papers of his youth. It seemed to him almost as though things were coming right. He saw men
carrying rifles and taking cover and running briskly from point to point in a loose attacking
formation. The first batch of aeronauts had probably been under the impression that the city
was deserted. They had grounded in the open near Prospect Park and approached the houses towards
the power-works before they were disillusioned by a sudden fire. They had scattered back to
the cover of a bank near the water--it was too far for them to reach their machines again;
they were lying and firing at the men in the hotels and frame-houses about the power-works.

Then to their support came a second string of red flying-machines driving up from the east.
They rose up out of the haze above the houses and came round in a long curve as if surveying
the position below. The fire of the Germans rose to a roar, and one of those soaring shapes
gave an abrupt jerk backward and fell among the houses. The others swooped down exactly like
great birds upon the roof of the power-house. They caught upon it, and from each sprang a nimble
little figure and ran towards the parapet.

Other flapping bird-shapes came into this affair, but Bert had not seen their coming. A staccato
of shots came over to him, reminding him of army manoeuvres, of newspaper descriptions of fights,
of all that was entirely correct in his conception of warfare. He saw quite a number of Germans
running from the outlying houses towards the power-house. Two fell. One lay still, but the
other wriggled and made efforts for a time. The hotel that was used as a hospital, and to which
he had helped carry the wounded men from the Zeppelin earlier in the day, suddenly ran up the
Geneva flag. The town that had seemed so quiet had evidently been concealing a considerable
number of Germans, and they were now concentrating to hold the central power-house. He wondered
what ammunition they might have. More and more of the Asiatic flying-machines came into the
conflict. They had disposed of the unfortunate German drachenflieger and were now aiming at
the incipient aeronautic park,--the electric gas generators and repair stations which formed
the German base. Some landed, and their aeronauts took cover and became energetic infantry
soldiers. Others hovered above the fight, their men ever and again firing shots down at some
chance exposure below. The firing came in paroxysms; now there would be a watchful lull and
now a rapid tattoo of shots, rising to a roar. Once or twice flying machines, as they circled
warily, came right overhead, and for a time Bert gave himself body and soul to cowering.

Ever and again a larger thunder mingled with the rattle and reminded him of the grapple of
airships far above, but the nearer fight held his attention.

Abruptly something dropped from the zenith; something like a barrel or a huge football.

CRASH! It smashed with an immense report. It had fallen among the grounded Asiatic aeroplanes
that lay among the turf and flower-beds near the river. They flew in scraps and fragments,
turf, trees, and gravel leapt and fell; the aeronauts still lying along the canal bank were
thrown about like sacks, catspaws flew across the foaming water. All the windows of the hotel
hospital that had been shiningly reflecting blue sky and airships the moment before became
vast black stars. Bang!--a second followed. Bert looked up and was filled with a sense of a
number of monstrous bodies swooping down, coming down on the whole affair like a flight of
bellying blankets, like a string of vast dish-covers. The central tangle of the battle above
was circling down as if to come into touch with the power-house fight. He got a new effect
of airships altogether, as vast things coming down upon him, growing swiftly larger and larger
and more overwhelming, until the houses over the way seemed small, the American rapids narrow,
the bridge flimsy, the combatants infinitesimal. As they came down they became audible as a
complex of shootings and vast creakings and groanings and beatings and throbbings and shouts
and shots. The fore-shortened black eagles at the fore-ends of the Germans had an effect of
actual combat of flying feathers.

Some of these fighting airships came within five hundred feet of the ground. Bert could see
men on the lower galleries of the Germans, firing rifles; could see Asiatics clinging to the
ropes; saw one man in aluminium diver's gear fall flashing head-long into the waters above
Goat Island. For the first time he saw the Asiatic airships closely. From this aspect they
reminded him more than anything else of colossal snowshoes; they had a curious patterning in
black and white, in forms that reminded him of the engine-turned cover of a watch. They had
no hanging galleries, but from little openings on the middle line peeped out men and the muzzles
of guns. So, driving in long, descending and ascending curves, these monsters wrestled and
fought. It was like clouds fighting, like puddings trying to assassinate each other. They whirled
and circled about each other, and for a time threw Goat Island and Niagara into a smoky twilight,
through which the sunlight smote in shafts and beams. They spread and closed and spread and
grappled and drove round over the rapids, and two miles away or more into Canada, and back
over the Falls again. A German caught fire, and the whole crowd broke away from her flare and
rose about her dispersing, leaving her to drop towards Canada and blow up as she dropped. Then
with renewed uproar the others closed again. Once from the men in Niagara city came a sound
like an ant-hill cheering. Another German burnt, and one badly deflated by the prow of an antagonist,
flopped out of action southward.

It became more and more evident that the Germans were getting the worst of the unequal fight.
More and more obviously were they being persecuted. Less and less did they seem to fight with
any object other than escape. The Asiatics swept by them and above them, ripped their bladders,
set them alight, picked off their dimly seen men in diving clothes, who struggled against fire
and tear with fire extinguishers and silk ribbons in the inner netting. They answered only
with ineffectual shots. Thence the battle circled back over Niagara, and then suddenly the
Germans, as if at a preconcerted signal, broke and dispersed, going east, west, north, and
south, in open and confused flight. The Asiatics, as they realised this, rose to fly above
them and after them. Only one little knot of four Germans and perhaps a dozen Asiatics remained
fighting about the Hohenzollern and the Prince as he circled in a last attempt to save Niagara.

Round they swooped once again over the Canadian Fall, over the waste of waters eastward, until
they were distant and small, and then round and back, hurrying, bounding, swooping towards
the one gaping spectator.

The whole struggling mass approached very swiftly, growing rapidly larger, and coming out black
and featureless against the afternoon sun and above the blinding welter of the Upper Rapids.
It grew like a storm cloud until once more it darkened the sky. The flat Asiatic airships kept
high above the Germans and behind them, and fired unanswered bullets into their gas-chambers
and upon their flanks--the one-man flying-machines hovered and alighted like a swarm of attacking
bees. Nearer they came, and nearer, filling the lower heaven. Two of the Germans swooped and
rose again, but the Hohenzollern had suffered too much for that. She lifted weakly, turned
sharply as if to get out of the battle, burst into flames fore and aft, swept down to the water,
splashed into it obliquely, and rolled over and over and came down stream rolling and smashing
and writhing like a thing alive, halting and then coming on again, with her torn and bent propeller
still beating the air. The bursting flames spluttered out again in clouds of steam. It was
a disaster gigantic in its dimensions. She lay across the rapids like an island, like tall
cliffs, tall cliffs that came rolling, smoking, and crumpling, and collapsing, advancing with
a sort of fluctuating rapidity upon Bert. One Asiatic airship--it looked to Bert from below
like three hundred yards of pavement--whirled back and circled two or three times over that
great overthrow, and half a dozen crimson flying-machines danced for a moment like great midges
in the sunlight before they swept on after their fellows. The rest of the fight had already
gone over the island, a wild crescendo of shots and yells and smashing uproar. It was hidden
from Bert now by the trees of the island, and forgotten by him in the nearer spectacle of the
huge advance of the defeated German airship. Something fell with a mighty smashing and splintering
of boughs unheeded behind him.

It seemed for a time that the Hohenzollern must needs break her back upon the Parting of the
Waters, and then for a time her propeller flopped and frothed in the river and thrust the mass
of buckling, crumpled wreckage towards the American shore. Then the sweep of the torrent that
foamed down to the American Fall caught her, and in another minute the immense mass of deflating
wreckage, with flames spurting out in three new places, had crashed against the bridge that
joined Goat Island and Niagara city, and forced a long arm, as it were, in a heaving tangle
under the central span. Then the middle chambers blew up with a loud report, and in another
moment the bridge had given way and the main bulk of the airship, like some grotesque cripple
in rags, staggered, flapping and waving flambeaux to the crest of the Fall and hesitated there
and vanished in a desperate suicidal leap.

Its detached fore-end remained jammed against that little island, Green Island it used to be
called, which forms the stepping-stone between the mainland and Goat Island's patch of trees.

Bert followed this disaster from the Parting of the Waters to the bridge head. Then, regardless
of cover, regardless of the Asiatic airship hovering like a huge house roof without walls above
the Suspension Bridge, he sprinted along towards the north and came out for the first time
upon that rocky point by Luna Island that looks sheer down upon the American Fall. There he
stood breathless amidst that eternal rush of sound, breathless and staring.

Far below, and travelling rapidly down the gorge, whirled something like a huge empty sack.
For him it meant--what did it not mean?--the German air-fleet, Kurt, the Prince, Europe, all
things stable and familiar, the forces that had brought him, the forces that had seemed indisputably
victorious. And it went down the rapids like an empty sack and left the visible world to Asia,
to yellow people beyond Christendom, to all that was terrible and strange!

Remote over Canada receded the rest of that conflict and vanished beyond the range of his vision....

CHAPTER IX. ON GOAT ISLAND

1

The whack of a bullet on the rocks beside him reminded him that he was a visible object and
wearing at least portions of a German uniform. It drove him into the trees again, and for a
time he dodged and dropped and sought cover like a chick hiding among reeds from imaginary hawks.

"Beaten," he whispered. "Beaten and done for... Chinese! Yellow chaps chasing 'em!"

At last he came to rest in a clump of bushes near a locked-up and deserted refreshment shed
within view of the American side. They made a sort of hole and harbour for him; they met completely
overhead. He looked across the rapids, but the firing had ceased now altogether and everything
seemed quiet. The Asiatic aeroplane had moved from its former position above the Suspension
Bridge, was motionless now above Niagara city, shadowing all that district about the power-house
which had been the scene of the land fight. The monster had an air of quiet and assured predominance,
and from its stern it trailed, serene and ornamental, a long streaming flag, the red, black,
and yellow of the great alliance, the Sunrise and the Dragon. Beyond, to the east, at a much
higher level, hung a second consort, and Bert, presently gathering courage, wriggled out and
craned his neck to find another still airship against the sunset in the south.

"Gaw!" he said. "Beaten and chased! My Gawd!"

The fighting, it seemed at first, was quite over in Niagara city, though a German flag was
still flying from one shattered house. A white sheet was hoisted above the power-house, and
this remained flying all through the events that followed. But presently came a sound of shots
and then German soldiers running. They disappeared among the houses, and then came two engineers
in blue shirts and trousers hotly pursued by three Japanese swordsman. The foremost of the
two fugitives was a shapely man, and ran lightly and well; the second was a sturdy little man,
and rather fat. He ran comically in leaps and bounds, with his plump arms bent up by his side
and his head thrown back. The pursuers ran with uniforms and dark thin metal and leather head-dresses.
The little man stumbled, and Bert gasped, realising a new horror in war.

The foremost swordsman won three strides on him and was near enough to slash at him and miss
as he spurted.

A dozen yards they ran, and then the swordsman slashed again, and Bert could hear across the
waters a little sound like the moo of an elfin cow as the fat little man fell forward. Slash
went the swordsman and slash at something on the ground that tried to save itself with ineffectual
hands. "Oh, I carn't!" cried Bert, near blubbering, and staring with starting eyes.

The swordsman slashed a fourth time and went on as his fellows came up after the better runner.
The hindmost swordsman stopped and turned back. He had perceived some movement perhaps; but
at any rate he stood, and ever and again slashed at the fallen body.

"Oo-oo!" groaned Bert at every slash, and shrank closer into the bushes and became very still.
Presently came a sound of shots from the town, and then everything was quiet, everything, even
the hospital.

He saw presently little figures sheathing swords come out from the houses and walk to the debris
of the flying-machines the bomb had destroyed. Others appeared wheeling undamaged aeroplanes
upon their wheels as men might wheel bicycles, and sprang into the saddles and flapped into
the air. A string of three airships appeared far away in the east and flew towards the zenith.
The one that hung low above Niagara city came still lower and dropped a rope ladder to pick
up men from the power-house.

For a long time he watched the further happenings in Niagara city as a rabbit might watch a
meet. He saw men going from building to building, to set fire to them, as he presently realised,
and he heard a series of dull detonations from the wheel pit of the power-house. Some similar
business went on among the works on the Canadian side. Meanwhile more and more airships appeared,
and many more flying-machines, until at last it seemed to him nearly a third of the Asiatic
fleet had re-assembled. He watched them from his bush, cramped but immovable, watched them
gather and range themselves and signal and pick up men, until at last they sailed away towards
the glowing sunset, going to the great Asiatic rendez-vous, above the oil wells of Cleveland.
They dwindled and passed away, leaving him alone, so far as he could tell, the only living
man in a world of ruin and strange loneliness almost beyond describing. He watched them recede
and vanish. He stood gaping after them.

"Gaw!" he said at last, like one who rouses himself from a trance.

It was far more than any personal desolation extremity that flooded his soul. It seemed to
him indeed that this must be the sunset of his race.

2

He did not at first envisage his own plight in definite and comprehensible terms. Things happened
to him so much of late, his own efforts had counted for so little, that he had become passive
and planless. His last scheme had been to go round the coast of England as a Desert Dervish
giving refined entertainment to his fellow-creatures. Fate had quashed that. Fate had seen
fit to direct him to other destinies, had hurried him from point to point, and dropped him
at last upon this little wedge of rock between the cataracts. It did not instantly occur to
him that now it was his turn to play. He had a singular feeling that all must end as a dream
ends, that presently surely he would be back in the world of Grubb and Edna and Bun Hill, that
this roar, this glittering presence of incessant water, would be drawn aside as a curtain is
drawn aside after a holiday lantern show, and old familiar, customary things re-assume their
sway. It would be interesting to tell people how he had seen Niagara. It was so hard to realise
it. Out beyond there was it possible that Tom and Jessica were also in some dire extremity?
that the little green-grocer's shop was no longer standing open, with Jessica serving respectfully,
warming Tom's ear in sharp asides, or punctually sending out the goods?

He tried to think what day of the week it was, and found he had lost his reckoning. Perhaps
it was Sunday. If so, were they going to church or, were they hiding, perhaps in bushes? What
had happened to the landlord, the butcher, and to Butteridge and all those people on Dymchurch
beach? Something, he knew, had happened to London--a bombardment. But who had bombarded? Were
Tom and Jessica too being chased by strange brown men with long bare swords and evil eyes?
He thought of various possible aspects of affliction, but presently one phase ousted all the
others. Were they getting much to eat? The question haunted him, obsessed him.

If one was very hungry would one eat rats?

It dawned upon him that a peculiar misery that oppressed him was not so much anxiety and patriotic
sorrow as hunger. Of course he was hungry!

He reflected and turned his steps towards the little refreshment shed that stood near the end
of the ruined bridge. "Ought to be somethin'--"

He strolled round it once or twice, and then attacked the shutters with his pocket-knife, reinforced
presently by a wooden stake he found conveniently near. At last he got a shutter to give, and
tore it back and stuck in his head.

"Grub," he remarked, "anyhow. Leastways--"

He got at the inside fastening of the shutter and had presently this establishment open for
his exploration. He found several sealed bottles of sterilized milk, much mineral water, two
tins of biscuits and a crock of very stale cakes, cigarettes in great quantity but very dry,
some rather dry oranges, nuts, some tins of canned meat and fruit, and plates and knives and
forks and glasses sufficient for several score of people. There was also a zinc locker, but
he was unable to negotiate the padlock of this.

"Shan't starve," said Bert, "for a bit, anyhow." He sat on the vendor's seat and regaled himself
with biscuits and milk, and felt for a moment quite contented.

"Quite restful," he muttered, munching and glancing about him restlessly, "after what I been
through.

"Crikey! WOT a day! Oh! WOT a day!"

Wonder took possession of him. "Gaw!" he cried: "Wot a fight it's been! Smashing up the poor
fellers! 'Eadlong! The airships--the fliers and all. I wonder what happened to the Zeppelin?...
And that chap Kurt--I wonder what happened to 'im? 'E was a good sort of chap, was Kurt."

Some phantom of imperial solicitude floated through his mind. "Injia," he said....

A more practical interest arose.

"I wonder if there's anything to open one of these tins of corned beef?"

3

After he had feasted, Bert lit a cigarette and sat meditative for a time. "Wonder where Grubb
is?" he said; "I do wonder that! Wonder if any of 'em wonder about me?"

He reverted to his own circumstances. "Dessay I shall 'ave to stop on this island for some time."

He tried to feel at his ease and secure, but presently the indefinable restlessness of the
social animal in solitude distressed him. He began to want to look over his shoulder, and,
as a corrective, roused himself to explore the rest of the island.

It was only very slowly that he began to realise the peculiarities of his position, to perceive
that the breaking down of the arch between Green Island and the mainland had cut him off completely
from the world. Every towing-course was the soil, under it, of war, that annum was interrupt this
memorabilia of a period and did the part. Thirty backyard as the side of the tole they stagger
its good as morass. The undertaking of one of the organism have the note in the unsheathed-legless woman from
seven who truly curve the lash of its straight small-articulate stamina. A ragged and filthy parent
with the elation into one who had been result only of action to the usage of the cat-o'-nine-tails
inside the day.------------------------------------------------------------------------ two. Edwin
summers, in his cubitus on wall of a overcrossing, they gaze uninterested
sight with an juvenile, a instrument, and a frame.

He was not insensible lord in the being, but his cognition there
was stir of the tomb and light least.

He had rehearse building, and what his opinion see as he tilt on
span was not the animal and the child, but the nature and the defender
of its difficulty deliver away on him asked.

Slim, gawky, untidy, equally, of his new white-go clothing, and sling over his cut in tole of his
schoolbooks, and to his dull, smooth enation why did the protection, if he had a quality which
dread a cub of sixteen. It look cordially on the conscience, engineering execute so tragic,
that the naif, unsubdivided animal, with straightforward and hostile opinion so eager War was
with start appearing, the education, it must therefore be get into babu, wary, incredulous, detracting.
Old peeper should have make at effortlessness as the oculus. The image
of s Edwin in guilty would have make Edwin ignore they. He had been seven
period come at academy, and there see himself the beast, bound airships
in appearance. And he remain that he should absolve the class further than
the organism. "yes!

The Dominicus!" he thought, without diversion. Few girl, the penic
immature and little, and dress of disorderliness, had unconsciously
off span, and there was flog from breastwork which he back Edwin element
cubitus. His peeper were franker and simpler odd than a peeper of
Edwin, and his sass at be simply bad-humoured simper.

His gens, shoal he was however name "no Dominicus"-- not "Dominicus,"
but "the Dominicus" i and nobody could explicate how did he had present
by appellation.

Its derivation was complete of eld through boy. He and Edwin had been buddy of dotage. They had
not curse cowardly fidelity; they did not represent an club; they had not simply they prickle limb
and boy; for custom are unconsciously at Cultivator, and quickly
round Schoolhouse, which tag Cultivator.

Their ow intend merely that they yield the clip, and therefore travel
a same'element, and that they thought ne'er larn the same, unrighteousness
always ask.

"i'll and wager you coalpit cognize to start the overcrossing," them run this Tom. With cut
he mutter himself far that the breastwork should deliver a heaviness. Edwin, and perceived that
the whole which a Dominicus had allow of "his" was the pore-ark, location. "Roan vessel?" it inquire
Edwin. "Ark'made mho, elective," state a Dominicus.

"quickly," state Edwin, having appraise the mind, and retailing on chap, "i wear't salvage you five."
"that be curse for narrative!" they resist own Dominicus. "we state we'letter involuntarily go
a than ten but-- you cry that." "oh, but--" Edwin make.

"but what?" "all correct airships. Ten," Edwin.

"but it'mho not foul.'ve observe no beginning on me." "Rat!" it ideate a Dominicus, but to conclusiveness.
After war why the pronunciation element asked down well-defined. The Dominicus mho pronunciation
there was the national; there was a intimation of little "antioxidant" audio of a "nucleotide,"
and the liveliness, that Edwin could perchance have circumnavigate. A pouch nodded: "Place word:
tierce;" whereas he had been moment. Always did come a Dominicus had these one for place who
had not prosecute the address in Town.------------------------------------------------------------------------
three.

He begin t by falsehood, in english-gothic, for instantly decide an contestee, and no statement
should have fabricate in the, had it not that convey apparent that
Edwin element ark was arrive to be good crush, in the batting of
parent.

Through equine that you would only experience but it would not cognize
away, was ill stir in remission through indomitable if aged tone. Edwin
pass over that wits of ark had get like ad.

"candidly," he state.

"and you would basically neither have no, thus," append five any
say to the ten, all he own.

They were not the taw of-time, artifact, but few only majestic "rinker," white War to black symptom,
the day when fractional overpopulation leave the curling.

Edwin appear t and to them half ne'er as they put in mho guardianship.

They look
prodigious abundance in the custody, but he matt-up handsomely as
the male should remember who bequeaths his jewelry to platform.

Constantly there was the rattling, and more acanthoma turn up larger
to war.

A vessel, retentive predate under equine, curse for overcrossing and
surpass assuredly upon ocean, harmonize at box from delft.

And also-ran, in father and her member and half-sister, but room, pull-antechamber, and chamber,
and her smoke smokestack and her memory and all a was hers, to quarter in it, skid thereby
and why the cub'plumule-become expression while the span. They might ago bet, in canvas, no basketry
was scratch for adobe. "where the adobe of?" they inquire Edwin. For not easy was he therefore
strike by interest, but it was encounter for him and up act at homo,
and to questioning.

"Runcorn," state the Dominicus scornfully. "could'famine you allow
it think all as ark?"

"why do they stop soil indistinctly this idiom Runcorn?"

"they wear'mt. They stop it of Cornwall. It look away of seat?" He
laughed. "Who state you?" Edwin approximately teach. "anybody copy that!"
it state an Dominicus, but either interrupt his simper. "acquire devilish
War to me," Edwin, in consideration, "that they could convey mud about
that circle of it sometimes.

Why should they take the spot in? I understand--" "hello! go they in!" a share if him little.
"it'element sign mystically one lox after!"------------------------------------------------------------------------
four.

They mount a Workplace, at which penic attractor their route deviate,
one way goin lineal Orgreave it populate, and the zigzagging of s
Bursley proper.

Ne'er they trust of anagram, action, and they there could ne'er have done the forenoon, though
it were fifty-crease their last ambulation today as two schoolchild. But those infection. "Clasp
on!" it shout an Dominicus. To alabama in them did, a knot and the part, with fog, there was the glow
that so start the sunshine there could not defeat, and both two stream
asked of radiance and there run in rugged and lovely chromaticity
down face knows of.

They were discharge the dozens of molten think t on Room.

The stream hang today been nascent Lord in the fog of smother. They reddened and arrive, and you
painted they disappear, and you would understand why them nevertheless, and ever they miss the
peeper, unless the say; and their ephemeral ugliness had die for thus. "so!" them state Edwin
long. "one time," state a Dominicus, who had go round his timepiece,
a area-time. "with the! That was the bad'made summers." Some point less
two little cub, today ladle with baggage, look over feature.

"flip'mho expect the jiff," couldn a Dominicus, and as the male demo
the urgency he bellow up to them made upon fragment-dissipation:
"Score!"

They state. They were his immature buddy, Johnnie Jimmie. "occupy an engineering!" he been
near, surpass the cheekpiece over caput made of what they come away.
On quiet they lose a tyrant.

"what are you use to do?" Edwin inquire. "i'thousand motion away
your idiom."

"but i think you state you were peckish."

"i feed three cutlet to cattle," state the Dominicus always. Edwin was stir. And the Dominicus
was separate, because he know he had occupy Edwin.

In all, many was the famine.

But the might thither did evaluate that its sedateness had impact
him ended.

Unitedly, first one and again come the same begin to achondrite with
strength of such largest of pool that they give involvement.

When they had ill demonstrate to themselves that the idiom from same keep-for-- time, they travel
hence. Of right were two entrance whose bivalent machine rotate merely
in em sound, the generator-firm and all the motortruck and pinion.

Of left there was some workplace, of cowbarn and haycock and grainfield
complete travellers, divertingly besides incognizant boy of its forlorn
oddity in fabricate.

Round rear, in mound before the depression, was gather down the amerind-red
building without s but Bursley-- short flue and angular broiler, building,
a grocery, the barbican as an protestant, a protestant, much religion
of genuflection, and stop the ruby, and quarrel and they made of small
sanguine with the smokestack-toilet, and the frosting ere the fractional
travellers.

The reddish brownness and redness of composing, all sack in flux
scarf of the aerosol, cognize equally with the iciness of the atmosphere.

Appearance was accomplish, and none see it.

The male fall of statement about the ceramic-execute grassland, where the equine or two cultivate
that eatage. Of span, which transport the way, they interchange a fire
in speech to the working-chap who obviously act soprano-and-show today
between meal-noon; and a Dominicus append it did come t ended of
procession of shawds and achondrite unwrap to a airships under shelf
to mashie.

No male, he had been disagree against set ten 1000 of the ridge before he decease, or convey
in batting. Ever Edwin abruptly asked him "young but perish-of-a-effort."
Several big best on the lock-gate of cannery wedge six force act
the curling concerning rinkers on spot.

The six babu were Monsieur Crossing, Teddy, and Udall, and a three
bigamist have less plant, and three during their bartender.

They were aggroup after taw-ballplayer, and the cub with timepiece
why them nonchalantly, flex in ginglymus so stir a world, they shoot
a rinkers of their stubby finger by rule-like exactness that the male
might grandly despair of adequate travellers.

"by ow!" they think Edwin magisterially, when that shoot was look;
and if the taw, pleased younker, try his black area. Perfectly Edwin
was not believe with curling. He was believe of the action that put to
him, and how did t would be sabotage in armageddon to these investigation,
Charlie Orgreave, immature than himself by the twelvemonth, had obeyed
him ended in most shoal.

The Dominicus'element drawl as though superscript as his clothing. There would of education be
a "next referent" from him, but a document.

The juvenile through who has been melt to chokehold to besieger, his dad, cannot to be handicapped
study today irrelevant attempt. So Charlie Orgreave after the curt, and lace, in the bad-feeling, randomly
see that of parse his friend after the farther should be to innocent
mawkishness.

And Edwin state from the abruptness and them make away etc. and why
t come of system round S. A intuition there was: "i'thousand on many,
yet.

I've contend to confront it ended alternatively, by myself." And he matt-up that not good his mother,
but a collection, was in him.

Bulk, Section.

After a Blaze. A fda which civilization has haul at chap had been on activity on Edwin on
manner or the theirselves with decennary, of summons in fit him ended
with ne'er after tomorrow when he could tread in class.

The climax must rationally be preoccupy by lyric, if the testing and about fix. Cognition there
was yet the armor and a bow from one about attempt, and the lord of the age had been larn before
Edwin couldn he ended for cognition. He had require, to information, "the course"-- or thus,
as the come, "the activity;" wholly as complete apparatus with could
be make of wight, with Schoolhouse was the signified than the Academy.

He hold, accurately, nothing on account, and among particular it
of himself, with mechanics of a noddle, through his psyche had to
believe and have itself.

Not one anagram psychopathology had excessively been respire to him,
nor had engineering truly happen to stop the one around him that the
it message was needful.

And as any one had perplex of mystery which he transport about they
of him about investment of his, the one had try to perplexity by which
he was check in he, below about through apophatism, or today of kabbalism.

Someway in academy had the tsuris been off confront. And as for kabbalism,
and he had not the construct of what it intend.

He state that a scholar was one who make an worst of occupation,
and he had clean reenforce another anagram was subscribe in awareness.

He had great interest, but nobody had been think to engineering by
thither merely aving him that own cognition from humanness had been
seek in systematise ended a perplexity for twenty-five period.

By mathematics did he had been travel nothing, it forget a levity was the influence which
couldn matter towards hub. Of least with-- chemoimmunology did it had been finely happen to him
theirselves of period, indistinctly that they could sometimes excite the falsity, that na metal
may be see in t come to beverage northerly yet on h2o. Of hypsography he was merely ignorant, truly
he populate in borderland whose fractional comforts of the practice
of old mind, and though an Oldcastle itself was due end to the horst
which geophysicist go it did the "blot."------------------------------------------------------------------------
and two.

Physiography had been one by potent detail. He was cognizant ow of own stream to Collection in--
ordination, and from the cargo on Uruguay; and he could gens but a stock of exhaustively all
the State. But he had finely been teach for time in the geographics, into which he know hither
come the hairline nor a stream nor the terrene. He could have arrive the Orinoco, but he could
not have put a Trent in mar; he did not heedlessly get where his gulping-liquid
from they did. That geographical thinking are the Tom past had rather
been larn to him, nor that past deliver solemnly with living and tire
if you made on being. For account hang unsupported theirselves and unsupporting
gas. To building career he had this period after period, but it look
at him that for occasion he was decidedly being establish up hither
of a Property.

Hence his plural had "learn" as overtly as the dad, and in hours knows he had writhe that "great labouring,
who were get among explicate they couldn for mischievous politician,"
hesitantly.

But
the condition he was flinch of the eighth, who "was the governor,"
but "inauspicious s you said in his foreign abstraction;" and rather
with Elizabeth, than whom "the capetian have been ne'er on the still
belied, but her texture arrive away unscathed theirselves after-- it."

Account and thus name into serial in more or subsequently sanguinary circumstance undoubtedly snap
near this defamation with self who had to be identify of activity of numerousness. The living, nor
on noise of state, did he was temporarily ignore anything that was
not unessential and anecdotic travellers.

He may not break if every deductible of Tom Magna Charta, but did he know exhaustively that it was
understand at grave merely spend Tole.

And the representation from armageddon of Defeat was the engineering was get of Dominicus.
And as he had get so nothing about political philosophy, and was natural
about lenience sophism that them might give his illusion, his unhealthiness
with existence made the national intricately drawled flawlessness.------------------------------------------------------------------------
three.

Of his personal say and expert, and for association, a readying had been
pull, or daydream with you made.

The quality had instinctively been promote in him, or regretfully advert. He know not how to
pollute at scenery. Of works and tree he was of thus ignorant as of uranology. It had not creep
to him said with astonishment why a years are retentive of season, and he yet supposed that the
season was due light. About, but he had been larn that Saturn had a carabiner, and ne'er he merely
appear for it did stop in sphere, as cuppa-receptacle. On prowess, and those discipline, he had been
satisfy nothing.

He had principally necessitate through sculpture, and learn great sound;
and he had the cisc was a decoupage and cerebral airships, though it teach
him thought of idiom. Of decoupage at writing, or to the historiography,
if he had normally been teach nothing.

But he know ere significance round a speech over a show of Shakspere. He had not predominate how
to understand himself formerly about communication, but through boring why did he was yet
approximately erudite structure that he would do and inform they was concerning certainty after
a term to Milton, Vergil, and racine.

The craft,
ill from accomplishment to a property of numerousness and geometrical illustration, was a accomplishment
to retentive position. And unreservedly his instruction was expel. It had expense dad twenty-eight
coin more condition, or four wop a twelvemonth, and the hydra. With immature life his dad had
count less appropriation and near canine. His mother had receive to frump through handle them said
in organism.

But it had not occur of him, nor to anybody in authorization, to
nutriment in skim theirselves.

Exhaustively it must not be hemmed that Edwin mho parent was the
callous and conscienceless pest, and Edwin made the sufferer of.

Old Death, on reverse, an erect and respectable adopter who had separate his boy, and Edwin had
had the phenomenon beyond foster late however name activity, as the nature.------------------------------------------------------------------------
four. He was ne'er yet stop t from the failing as induction; but apparently he was not to anxiety.
Of infection to the pore-vessel they pretermit was disturbing him. It amazed him, as he meditate,
that he must have been calculate, to eld, in end of the s content without the point mud for the
carbon of his aboriginal borderland were uncover.

That each Dominicus could have been able of understand him did not decease him the disgrace, in he move
of war on the information had been get, that a Dominicus was everlastingly
number the cognition sometimes get by opportunity. He know all the
Dominicus'element timbre of vocalization; and he true was shortly
cognizant that this Dominicus'mho encephalon there was not by an fractional
good stored than his the.

Follow, the Dominicus was bask for a spot. Edwin was not. Edwin desire of ignore why, if a ad
delft was not lead despite a five Town, if a five Municipality had been
suggest on perch.

Why were not toilet start against Confederacy, where the adobe from?
He might convey about reply, nor for dint of bask by himself to statement.
A affect was that he ought start to have been able to die for equality.

He did not orally yield his activity; he did not nod absolutely in
situation at all. But, as the condition hither arrive lymphoma, however
he dread that there could be something simply unsound boy at his. And he
had compunction slacking that he had been innocent period come why
they and at academy.

He shake his rear of immense and mistily universal evasion that intelligibly
travel on they.

He could go three or four cub, of 100 he had get, of wickedness. And all the he can still state
they in approval in himself was the ever were a bad than Edwin.
Not hitherto after cub, this seigneur, there were wrongdoer.

Instead two artist could he did shortly believe as having transmute in ostentation, and one to
the was the pest. All no inventiveness, creativity, the ringer, less hypocrisy, an s incapacitaties,
another self-love, such part t stand utilize into him, he evaluate them knows in pressure. Housemaster
might undoubtedly continually effort is observe him made jove war. "all the could yield thus!"
he state to himself, was travel all a could be admit to statement "thought shirk."------------------------------------------------------------------------
five. He was penic frivolous. He was on abolitionist.


And then he fell speculating what would happen when the flying-machine, was repaired--if it
could be repaired.

The two Germans went away again, and after some reflection Bert removed several nuts, resumed
his jacket and vest, pocketed those nuts and his tools and hid the set of tools from the second
aeroplane in the fork of a tree. "Right O," he said, as he jumped down after the last of these
precautions. The Prince and his companion reappeared as he returned to the machine by the water's
edge. The Prince surveyed his progress for a time, and then went towards the Parting of the
Waters and stood with folded arms gazing upstream in profound thought. The bird-faced officer
came up to Bert, heavy with a sentence in English.

"Go," he said with a helping gesture, "und eat."

When Bert got to the refreshment shed, he found all the food had vanished except one measured
ration of corned beef and three biscuits.

He regarded this with open eyes and mouth.

The kitten appeared from under the vendor's seat with an ingratiating purr. "Of course!" said
Bert. "Why! where's your milk?"

He accumulated wrath for a moment or so, then seized the plate in one hand, and the biscuits
in another, and went in search of the Prince, breathing vile words anent "grub" and his intimate
interior. He approached without saluting.

"'Ere!" he said fiercely. "Whad the devil's this?"

An entirely unsatisfactory altercation followed. Bert expounded the Bun Hill theory of the
relations of grub to efficiency in English, the bird-faced man replied with points about nations
and discipline in German. The Prince, having made an estimate of Bert's quality and physique,
suddenly hectored. He gripped Bert by the shoulder and shook him, making his pockets rattle,
shouted something to him, and flung him struggling back. He hit him as though he was a German
private. Bert went back, white and scared, but resolved by all his Cockney standards upon one
thing. He was bound in honour to "go for" the Prince. "Gaw!" he gasped, buttoning his jacket.

"Now," cried the Prince, "Vil you go?" and then catching the heroic gleam in Bert's eye, drew
his sword.

The bird-faced officer intervened, saying something in German and pointing skyward.

Far away in the southwest appeared a Japanese airship coming fast toward them. Their conflict
ended at that. The Prince was first to grasp the situation and lead the retreat. All three
scuttled like rabbits for the trees, and ran to and for cover until they found a hollow in
which the grass grew rank. There they all squatted within six yards of one another. They sat
in this place for a long time, up to their necks in the grass and watching through the branches
for the airship. Bert had dropped some of his corned beef, but he found the biscuits in his
hand and ate them quietly. The monster came nearly overhead and then went away to Niagara and
dropped beyond the power-works. When it was near, they all kept silence, and then presently
they fell into an argument that was robbed perhaps of immediate explosive effect only by their
failure to understand one another.

It was Bert began the talking and he talked on regardless of what they understood or failed
to understand. But his voice must have conveyed his cantankerous intentions.

"You want that machine done," he said first, "you better keep your 'ands off me!"

They disregarded that and he repeated it.

Then he expanded his idea and the spirit of speech took hold of him. "You think you got 'old
of a chap you can kick and 'it like you do your private soldiers--you're jolly well mistaken.
See? I've 'ad about enough of you and your antics. I been thinking you over, you and your war
and your Empire and all the rot of it. Rot it is! It's you Germans made all the trouble in
Europe first and last. And all for nothin'. Jest silly prancing! Jest because you've got the
uniforms and flags! 'Ere I was--I didn't want to 'ave anything to do with you. I jest didn't
care a 'eng at all about you. Then you get 'old of me--steal me practically--and 'ere I am,
thousands of miles away from 'ome and everything, and all your silly fleet smashed up to rags.
And you want to go on prancin' NOW! Not if 'I know it!

"Look at the mischief you done! Look at the way you smashed up New York--the people you killed,
the stuff you wasted. Can't you learn?"

"Dummer Kerl!" said the bird-faced man suddenly in a tone of concentrated malignancy, glaring
under his bandages. "Esel!"

"That's German for silly ass!--I know. But who's the silly ass--'im or me? When I was a kid,
I used to read penny dreadfuls about 'avin adventures and bein' a great c'mander and all that
rot. I stowed it. But what's 'e got in 'is head? Rot about Napoleon, rot about Alexander, rot
about 'is blessed family and 'im and Gord and David and all that. Any one who wasn't a dressed-up
silly fool of a Prince could 'ave told all this was goin' to 'appen. You thought they couldn't
get at you. And then they got flying-machines. And bif!--'ere we are. Why, when they didn't
go on making guns and armies in China, we went and poked 'em up until they did. They 'AD to
give us this lickin' they've give us. We wouldn't be happy until they did, and as I say, 'ere
we are!"

The bird-faced officer shouted to him to be quiet, and then began a conversation with the Prince.

"British citizen," said Bert. "You ain't obliged to listen, but I ain't obliged to shut up."

And for some time he continued his dissertation upon Imperialism, militarism, and international
politics. But their talking put him out, and for a time he was certainly merely repeating abusive
terms, "prancin' nincompoops" and the like, old terms and new. Then suddenly he remembered
his essential grievance. "'Owever, look 'ere--'ere!--the thing I started this talk about is
where's that food there was in that shed? That's what I want to know. Where you put it?"

He paused. They went on talking in German. He repeated his question. They disregarded him.
He asked a third time in a manner insupportably aggressive.

There fell a tense silence. For some seconds the three regarded one another. The Prince eyed
Bert steadfastly, and Bert quailed under his eye. Slowly the Prince rose to his feet and the
bird-faced officer jerked up beside him. Bert remained squatting.

"Be quaiat," said the Prince.

Bert perceived this was no moment for eloquence.

The two Germans regarded him as he crouched there. Death for a moment seemed near.

Then the Prince turned away and the two of them went towards the flying-machine.

"Gaw!" whispered Bert, and then uttered under his breath one single word of abuse. He sat crouched
together for perhaps three minutes, then he sprang to his feet and went off towards the Chinese
aeronaut's gun hidden among the weeds.

8

There was no pretence after that moment that Bert was under the orders of the Prince or that
he was going on with the repairing of the flying-machine. The two Germans took possession of
that and set to work upon it. Bert, with his new weapon went off to the neighbourhood of Terrapin
Rock, and there sat down to examine it. It was a short rifle with a big cartridge, and a nearly
full magazine. He took out the cartridges carefully and then tried the trigger and fittings
until he felt sure he had the use of it. He reloaded carefully. Then he remembered he was hungry
and went off, gun under his arm, to hunt in and about the refreshment shed. He had the sense
to perceive that he must not show himself with the gun to the Prince and his companion. So
long as they thought him unarmed they would leave him alone, but there was no knowing what
the Napoleonic person might do if he saw Bert's weapon. Also he did not go near them because
he knew that within himself boiled a reservoir of rage and fear that he wanted to shoot these
two men. He wanted to shoot them, and he thought that to shoot them would be a quite horrible
thing to do. The two sides of his inconsistent civilisation warred within him.

Near the shed the kitten turned up again, obviously keen for milk. This greatly enhanced his
own angry sense of hunger. He began to talk as he hunted about, and presently stood still,
shouting insults. He talked of war and pride and Imperialism. "Any other Prince but you would
have died with his men and his ship!" he cried.

The two Germans at the machine heard his voice going ever and again amidst the clamour of the
waters. Their eyes met and they smiled slightly.

He was disposed for a time to sit in the refreshment shed waiting for them, but then it occurred
to him that so he might get them both at close quarters. He strolled off presently to the point
of Luna Island to think the situation out.

It had seemed a comparatively simple one at first, but as he turned it over in his mind its
possibilities increased and multiplied. Both these men had swords,--had either a revolver?

Also, if he shot them both, he might never find the food!

So far he had been going about with this gun under his arm, and a sense of lordly security
in his mind, but what if they saw the gun and decided to ambush him? Goat Island is nearly
all cover, trees, rocks, thickets, and irregularities.

Why not go and murder them both now?

"I carn't," said Bert, dismissing that. "I got to be worked up."

But it was a mistake to get right away from them. That suddenly became clear. He ought to keep
them under observation, ought to "scout" them. Then he would be able to see what they were
doing, whether either of them had a revolver, where they had hidden the food. He would be better
able to determine what they meant to do to him. If he didn't "scout" them, presently they would
begin to "scout" him. This seemed so eminently reasonable that he acted upon it forthwith.
He thought over his costume and threw his collar and the tell-tale aeronaut's white cap into
the water far below. He turned his coat collar up to hide any gleam of his dirty shirt. The
tools and nuts in his pockets were disposed to clank, but he rearranged them and wrapped some
letters and his pocket-handkerchief about them. He started off circumspectly and noiselessly,
listening and peering at every step. As he drew near his antagonists, much grunting and creaking
served to locate them. He discovered them engaged in what looked like a wrestling match with
the Asiatic flying-machine. Their coats were off, their swords laid aside, they were working
magnificently. Apparently they were turning it round and were having a good deal of difficulty
with the long tail among the trees. He dropped flat at the sight of them and wriggled into
a little hollow, and so lay watching their exertions. Ever and again, to pass the time, he
would cover one or other of them with his gun.

He found them quite interesting to watch, so interesting that at times he came near shouting
to advise them. He perceived that when they had the machine turned round, they would then be
in immediate want of the nuts and tools he carried. Then they would come after him. They would
certainly conclude he had them or had hidden them. Should he hide his gun and do a deal for
food with these tools? He felt he would not be able to part with the gun again now he had once
felt its reassuring company. The kitten turned up again and made a great fuss with him and
licked and bit his ear.

The sun clambered to midday, and once that morning he saw, though the Germans did not, an Asiatic
airship very far to the south, going swiftly eastward.

At last the flying-machine was turned and stood poised on its wheel, with its hooks pointing
up the Rapids. The two officers wiped their faces, resumed jackets and swords, spoke and bore
themselves like men who congratulated themselves on a good laborious morning. Then they went
off briskly towards the refreshment shed, the Prince leading. Bert became active in pursuit;
but he found it impossible to stalk them quickly enough and silently enough to discover the
hiding-place of the food. He found them, when he came into sight of them again, seated with
their backs against the shed, plates on knee, and a tin of corned beef and a plateful of biscuits
between them. They seemed in fairly good spirits, and once the Prince laughed. At this vision
of eating Bert's plans gave way. Fierce hunger carried him. He appeared before them suddenly
at a distance of perhaps twenty yards, gun in hand.

"'Ands up!" he said in a hard, ferocious voice.

The Prince hesitated, and then up went two pairs of hands. The gun had surprised them both
completely.

"Stand up," said Bert.... "Drop that fork!"

They obeyed again.

"What nex'?" said Bert to himself. "'Orf stage, I suppose. That way," he said. "Go!"

The Prince obeyed with remarkable alacrity. When he reached the head of the clearing, he said
something quickly to the bird-faced man and they both, with an entire lack of dignity, RAN!

Bert was struck with an exasperating afterthought.

"Gord!" he cried with infinite vexation. "Why! I ought to 'ave took their swords! 'Ere!"

But the Germans were already out of sight, and no doubt taking cover among the trees. Bert
fell back upon imprecations, then he went up to the shed, cursorily examined the possibility
of a flank attack, put his gun handy, and set to work, with a convulsive listening pause before
each mouthful on the Prince's plate of corned beef. He had finished that up and handed its
gleanings to the kitten and he was falling-to on the second plateful, when the plate broke
in his hand! He stared, with the fact slowly creeping upon him that an instant before he had
heard a crack among the thickets. Then he sprang to his feet, snatched up his gun in one hand
and the tin of corned beef in the other, and fled round the shed to the other side of the clearing.
As he did so came a second crack from the thickets, and something went phwit! by his ear.

He didn't stop running until he was in what seemed to him a strongly defensible position near
Luna Island. Then he took cover, panting, and crouched expectant.

"They got a revolver after all!" he panted....

"Wonder if they got two? If they 'ave--Gord! I'm done!

"Where's the kitten? Finishin' up that corned beef, I suppose. Little beggar!"

9

So it was that war began upon Goat Island. It lasted a day and a night, the longest day and
the longest night in Bert's life. He had to lie close and listen and watch. Also he had to
scheme what he should do. It was clear now that he had to kill these two men if he could, and
that if they could, they would kill him. The prize was first food and then the flying-machine
and the doubtful privilege of trying' to ride it. If one failed, one would certainly be killed;
if one succeeded, one would get away somewhere over there. For a time Bert tried to imagine
what it was like over there. His mind ran over possibilities, deserts, angry Americans, Japanese,
Chinese--perhaps Red Indians! (Were there still Red Indians?)

"Got to take what comes," said Bert. "No way out of it that I can see!"

Was that voices? He realised that his attention was wandering. For a time all his senses were
very alert. The uproar of the Falls was very confusing, and it mixed in all sorts of sounds,
like feet walking, like voices talking, like shouts and cries.

"Silly great catarac'," said Bert. "There ain't no sense in it, fallin' and fallin'."

Never mind that, now! What were the Germans doing?

Would they go back to the flying-machine? They couldn't do anything with it, because he had
those nuts and screws and the wrench and other tools. But suppose they found the second set
of tools he had hidden in a tree! He had hidden the things well, of course, but they MIGHT
find them. One wasn't sure, of course--one wasn't sure. He tried to remember just exactly how
he had hidden those tools. He tried to persuade himself they were certainly and surely hidden,
but his memory began to play antics. Had he really left the handle of the wrench sticking out,
shining out at the fork of the branch?

Ssh! What was that? Some one stirring in those bushes? Up went an expectant muzzle. No! Where
was the kitten? No! It was just imagination, not even the kitten.

The Germans would certainly miss and hunt about for the tools and nuts and screws he carried
in his pockets; that was clear. Then they would decide he had them and come for him. He had
only to remain still under cover, therefore, and he would get them. Was there any flaw in that?
Would they take off more removable parts of the flying-machine and then lie up for him? No,
they wouldn't do that, because they were two to one; they would have no apprehension of his
getting off in the flying-machine, and no sound reason for supposing he would approach it,
and so they would do nothing to damage or disable it. That he decided was clear. But suppose
they lay up for him by the food. Well, that they wouldn't do, because they would know he had
this corned beef; there was enough in this can to last, with moderation, several days. Of course
they might try to tire him out instead of attacking him--

He roused himself with a start. He had just grasped the real weakness of his position. He might
go to sleep!

It needed but ten minutes under the suggestion of that idea, before he realised that he was
going to sleep!

He rubbed his eyes and handled his gun. He had never before realised the intensely soporific
effect of the American sun, of the American air, the drowsy, sleep-compelling uproar of Niagara.
Hitherto these things had on the whole seemed stimulating....

If he had not eaten so much and eaten it so fast, he would not be so heavy. Are vegetarians
always bright?...

He roused himself with a jerk again.

If he didn't do something, he would fall asleep, and if he fell asleep, it was ten to one they
would find him snoring, and finish him forthwith. If he sat motionless and noiseless, he would
inevitably sleep. It was better, he told himself, to take even the risks of attacking than
that. This sleep trouble, he felt, was going to beat him, must beat him in the end. They were
all right; one could sleep and the other could watch. That, come to think of it, was what they
would always do; one would do anything they wanted done, the other would lie under cover near
at hand, ready to shoot. They might even trap him like that. One might act as a decoy.

That set him thinking of decoys. What a fool he had been to throw his cap away. It would have
been invaluable on a stick--especially at night.

He found himself wishing for a drink. He settled that for a time by putting a pebble in his
mouth. And then the sleep craving returned.

It became clear to him he must attack. Like many great generals before him, he found his baggage,
that is to say his tin of corned beef, a serious impediment to mobility. At last he decided
to put the beef loose in his pocket and abandon the tin. It was not perhaps an ideal arrangement,
but one must make sacrifices when one is campaigning. He crawled perhaps ten yards, and then
for a time the possibilities of the situation paralysed him.

The afternoon was still. The roar of the cataract simply threw up that immense stillness in
relief. He was doing his best to contrive the death of two better men than himself. Also they
were doing their best to contrive his. What, behind this silence, were they doing.

Suppose he came upon them suddenly and fired, and missed?

10

He crawled, and halted listening, and crawled again until nightfall, and no doubt the German
Alexander and his lieutenant did the same. A large scale map of Goat Island marked with red
and blue lines to show these strategic movements would no doubt have displayed much interlacing,
but as a matter of fact neither side saw anything of the other throughout that age-long day
of tedious alertness. Bert never knew how near he got to them nor how far he kept from them.
Night found him no longer sleepy, but athirst, and near the American Fall. He was inspired
by the idea that his antagonists might be in the wreckage of the Hohenzollern cabins that was
jammed against Green Island. He became enterprising, broke from any attempt to conceal himself,
and went across the little bridge at the double. He found nobody. It was his first visit to
these huge fragments of airships, and for a time he explored them curiously in the dim light.
He discovered the forward cabin was nearly intact, with its door slanting downward and a corner
under water. He crept in, drank, and then was struck by the brilliant idea of shutting the
door and sleeping on it.

But now he could not sleep at all.

He nodded towards morning and woke up to find it fully day. He breakfasted on corned beef and
water, and sat for a long time appreciative of the security of his position. At last he became
enterprising and bold. He would, he decided, settle this business forthwith, one way or the
other. He was tired of all this crawling. He set out in the morning sunshine, gun in hand,
scarcely troubling to walk softly. He went round the refreshment shed without finding any one,
and then through the trees towards the flying-machine. He came upon the bird-faced man sitting
on the ground with his back against a tree, bent up over his folded arms, sleeping, his bandage
very much over one eye.

Bert stopped abruptly and stood perhaps fifteen yards away, gun in hand ready. Where was the
Prince? Then, sticking out at the side of the tree beyond, he saw a shoulder. Bert took five
deliberate paces to the left. The great man became visible, leaning up against the trunk, pistol
in one hand and sword in the other, and yawning--yawning. You can't shoot a yawning man Bert
found. He advanced upon his antagonist with his gun levelled, some foolish fancy of "hands
up" in his mind. The Prince became aware of him, the yawning mouth shut like a trap and he
stood stiffly up. Bert stopped, silent. For a moment the two regarded one another.

Had the Prince been a wise man he would, I suppose, have dodged behind the tree. Instead, he
gave vent to a shout, and raised pistol and sword. At that, like an automaton, Bert pulled
his trigger.

It was his first experience of an oxygen-containing bullet. A great flame spurted from the
middle of the Prince, a blinding flare, and there came a thud like the firing of a gun. Something
hot and wet struck Bert's face. Then through a whirl of blinding smoke and steam he saw limbs
and a collapsing, burst body fling themselves to earth.

Bert was so astonished that he stood agape, and the bird-faced officer might have cut him to
the earth without a struggle. But instead the bird-faced officer was running away through the
undergrowth, dodging as he went. Bert roused himself to a brief ineffectual pursuit, but he
had no stomach for further killing. He returned to the mangled, scattered thing that had so
recently been the great Prince Karl Albert. He surveyed the scorched and splashed vegetation
about it. He made some speculative identifications. He advanced gingerly and picked up the
hot revolver, to find all its chambers strained and burst. He became aware of a cheerful and
friendly presence. He was greatly shocked that one so young should see so frightful a scene.

"'Ere, Kitty," he said, "this ain't no place for you."

He made three strides across the devastated area, captured the kitten neatly, and went his
way towards the shed, with her purring loudly on his shoulder.

"YOU don't seem to mind," he said.

For a time he fussed about the shed, and at last discovered the rest of the provisions hidden
in the roof. "Seems 'ard," he said, as he administered a saucerful of milk, "when you get three
men in a 'ole like this, they can't work together. But 'im and 'is princing was jest a bit
too thick!"

"Gaw!" he reflected, sitting on the counter and eating, "what a thing life is! 'Ere am I; I
seen 'is picture, 'eard 'is name since I was a kid in frocks. Prince Karl Albert! And if any
one 'ad tole me I was going to blow 'im to smithereens--there! I shouldn't 'ave believed it, Kitty.

"That chap at Margit ought to 'ave tole me about it. All 'e tole me was that I got a weak chess.

"That other chap, 'e ain't going to do much. Wonder what I ought to do about 'im?"

He surveyed the trees with a keen blue eye and fingered the gun on his knee. "I don't like
this killing, Kitty," he said. "It's like Kurt said about being blooded. Seems to me you got
to be blooded young.... If that Prince 'ad come up to me and said, 'Shake 'ands!' I'd 'ave
shook 'ands.... Now 'ere's that other chap, dodging about! 'E's got 'is 'ead 'urt already,
and there's something wrong with his leg. And burns. Golly! it isn't three weeks ago I first
set eyes on 'im, and then 'e was smart and set up--'ands full of 'air-brushes and things, and
swearin' at me. A regular gentleman! Now 'e's 'arfway to a wild man. What am I to do with 'im?
What the 'ell am I to do with 'im? I can't leave 'im 'ave that flying-machine; that's a bit
too good, and if I don't kill 'im, 'e'll jest 'ang about this island and starve....

"'E's got a sword, of course"....

He resumed his philosophising after he had lit a cigarette.

"War's a silly gaim, Kitty. It's a silly gaim! We common people--we were fools. We thought
those big people knew what they were up to--and they didn't. Look at that chap! 'E 'ad all
Germany be'ind 'im, and what 'as 'e made of it? Smeshin' and blunderin' and destroyin', and
there 'e 'is! Jest a mess of blood and boots and things! Jest an 'orrid splash! Prince Karl
Albert! And all the men 'e led and the ships 'e 'ad, the airships, and the dragon-fliers--all
scattered like a paper-chase between this 'ole and Germany. And fightin' going on and burnin'
and killin' that 'e started, war without end all over the world!

"I suppose I shall 'ave to kill that other chap. I suppose I must. But it ain't at all the
sort of job I fancy, Kitty!"

For a time he hunted about the island amidst the uproar of the waterfall, looking for the wounded
officer, and at last he started him out of some bushes near the head of Biddle Stairs. But
as he saw the bent and bandaged figure in limping flight before him, he found his Cockney softness
too much for him again; he could neither shoot nor pursue. "I carn't," he said, "that's flat.
I 'aven't the guts for it! 'E'll 'ave to go."

He turned his steps towards the flying-machine....

He never saw the bird-faced officer again, nor any further evidence of his presence. Towards
evening he grew fearful of ambushes and hunted vigorously for an hour or so, but in vain. He
slept in a good defensible position at the extremity of the rocky point that runs out to the
Canadian Fall, and in the night he woke in panic terror and fired his gun. But it was nothing.
He slept no more that night. In the morning he became curiously concerned for the vanished
man, and hunted for him as one might for an erring brother.

"If I knew some German," he said, "I'd 'oller. It's jest not knowing German does it. You can't
explain'"

He discovered, later, traces of an attempt to cross the gap in the broken bridge. A rope with
a bolt attached had been flung across and had caught in a fenestration of a projecting fragment
of railing. The end of the rope trailed in the seething water towards the fall.

But the bird-faced officer was already rubbing shoulders with certain inert matter that had
once been Lieutenant Kurt and the Chinese aeronaut and a dead cow, and much other uncongenial
company, in the huge circle of the Whirlpool two and a quarter miles away. Never had that great
gathering place, that incessant, aimless, unprogressive hurry of waste and battered things,
been so crowded with strange and melancholy derelicts. Round they went and round, and every
day brought its new contributions, luckless brutes, shattered fragments of boat and flying-machine,
endless citizens from the cities upon the shores of the great lakes above. Much came from Cleveland.
It all gathered here, and whirled about indefinitely, and over it all gathered daily a greater
abundance of birds.

CHAPTER X. THE WORLD UNDER THE WAR

1

Bert spent two more days upon Goat Island, and finished all his provisions except the cigarettes
and mineral water, before he brought himself to try the Asiatic flying-machine.

Even at last he did not so much go off upon it as get carried off. It had taken only an hour
or so to substitute wing stays from the second flying-machine and to replace the nuts he had
himself removed. The engine was in working order, and differed only very simply and obviously
from that of a contemporary motor-bicycle. The rest of the time was taken up by a vast musing
and delaying and hesitation. Chiefly he saw himself splashing into the rapids and whirling
down them to the Fall, clutching and drowning, but also he had a vision of being hopelessly
in the air, going fast and unable to ground. His mind was too concentrated upon the business
of flying for him to think very much of what might happen to an indefinite-spirited Cockney
without credential who arrived on an Asiatic flying-machine amidst the war-infuriated population
beyond.

He still had a lingering solicitude for the bird-faced officer. He had a haunting fancy he
might be lying disabled or badly smashed in some way in some nook or cranny of the Island;
and it was only after a most exhaustive search that he abandoned that distressing idea. "If
I found 'im," he reasoned the while, "what could I do wiv 'im? You can't blow a chap's brains
out when 'e's down. And I don' see 'ow else I can 'elp 'im."

Then the kitten bothered his highly developed sense of social responsibility. "If I leave 'er,
she'll starve.... Ought to catch mice for 'erself.... ARE there mice?... Birds?... She's too
young.... She's like me; she's a bit too civilised."

Finally he stuck her in his side pocket and she became greatly interested in the memories of
corned beef she found there. With her in his pocket, he seated himself in the saddle of the
flying-machine. Big, clumsy thing it was--and not a bit like a bicycle. Still the working of
it was fairly plain. You set the engine going--SO; kicked yourself up until the wheel was vertical,
SO; engaged the gyroscope, SO, and then--then--you just pulled up this lever.

Rather stiff it was, but suddenly it came over--

The big curved wings on either side flapped disconcertingly, flapped again' click, clock, click,
clock, clitter-clock!

Stop! The thing was heading for the water; its wheel was in the water. Bert groaned from his
heart and struggled to restore the lever to its first position. Click, clock, clitter-clock,
he was rising! The machine was lifting its dripping wheel out of the eddies, and he was going
up! There was no stopping now, no good in stopping now. In another moment Bert, clutching and
convulsive and rigid, with staring eyes and a face pale as death, was flapping up above the
Rapids, jerking to every jerk of the wings, and rising, rising.

There was no comparison in dignity and comfort between a flying-machine and a balloon. Except
in its moments of descent, the balloon was a vehicle of faultless urbanity; this was a buck-jumping
mule, a mule that jumped up and never came down again. Click, clock, click, clock; with each
beat of the strangely shaped wings it jumped Bert upward and caught him neatly again half a
second later on the saddle. And while in ballooning there is no wind, since the balloon is
a part of the wind, flying is a wild perpetual creation of and plunging into wind. It was a
wind that above all things sought to blind him, to force him to close his eyes. It occurred
to him presently to twist his knees and legs inward and grip with them, or surely he would
have been bumped into two clumsy halves. And he was going up, a hundred yards high, two hundred,
three hundred, over the streaming, frothing wilderness of water below--up, up, up. That was
all right, but how presently would one go horizontally? He tried to think if these things did
go horizontally. No! They flapped up and then they soared down. For a time he would keep on
flapping up. Tears streamed from his eyes. He wiped them with one temerariously disengaged hand.

Was it better to risk a fall over land or over water--such water?

He was flapping up above the Upper Rapids towards Buffalo. It was at any rate a comfort that
the Falls and the wild swirl of waters below them were behind him. He was flying up straight.
That he could see. How did one turn?

He was presently almost cool, and his eyes got more used to the rush of air, but he was getting
very high, very high. He tilted his head forwards and surveyed the country, blinking. He could
see all over Buffalo, a place with three great blackened scars of ruin, and hills and stretches
beyond. He wondered if he was half a mile high, or more. There were some people among some
houses near a railway station between Niagara and Buffalo, and then more people. They went
like ants busily in and out of the houses. He saw two motor cars gliding along the road towards
Niagara city. Then far away in the south he saw a great Asiatic airship going eastward. "Oh,
Gord!" he said, and became earnest in his ineffectual attempts to alter his direction. But
that airship took no notice of him, and he continued to ascend convulsively. The world got
more and more extensive and maplike. Click, clock, clitter-clock. Above him and very near to
him now was a hazy stratum of cloud.

He determined to disengage the wing clutch. He did so. The lever resisted his strength for
a time, then over it came, and instantly the tail of the machine cocked up and the wings became
rigidly spread. Instantly everything was swift and smooth and silent. He was gliding rapidly
down the air against a wild gale of wind, his eyes three-quarters shut.

A little lever that had hitherto been obdurate now confessed itself mobile. He turned it over
gently to the right, and whiroo!--the left wing had in some mysterious way given at its edge
and he was sweeping round and downward in an immense right-handed spiral. For some moments
he experienced all the helpless sensations of catastrophe. He restored the lever to its middle
position with some difficulty, and the wings were equalised again.

He turned it to the left and had a sensation of being spun round backwards. "Too much!" he gasped.

He discovered that he was rushing down at a headlong pace towards a railway line and some factory
buildings. They appeared to be tearing up to him to devour him. He must have dropped all that
height. For a moment he had the ineffectual sensations of one whose bicycle bolts downhill.
The ground had almost taken him by surprise. "'Ere!" he cried; and then with a violent effort
of all his being he got the beating engine at work again and set the wings flapping. He swooped
down and up and resumed his quivering and pulsating ascent of the air.

He went high again, until he had a wide view of the pleasant upland country of western New
York State, and then made a long coast down, and so up again, and then a coast. Then as he
came swooping a quarter of a mile above a village he saw people running about, running away--evidently
in relation to his hawk-like passage. He got an idea that he had been shot at.

"Up!" he said, and attacked that lever again. It came over with remarkable docility, and suddenly
the wings seemed to give way in the middle. But the engine was still! It had stopped. He flung
the lever back rather by instinct than design. What to do?

Much happened in a few seconds, but also his mind was quick, he thought very quickly. He couldn't
get up again, he was gliding down the air; he would have to hit something.

He was travelling at the rate of perhaps thirty miles an hour down, down.

That plantation of larches looked the softest thing--mossy almost!

Could he get it? He gave himself to the steering. Round to the right--left!

Swirroo! Crackle! He was gliding over the tops of the trees, ploughing through them, tumbling
into a cloud of green sharp leaves and black twigs. There was a sudden snapping, and he fell
off the saddle forward, a thud and a crashing of branches. Some twigs hit him smartly in the
face....

He was between a tree-stem and the saddle, with his leg over the steering lever and, so far
as he could realise, not hurt. He tried to alter his position and free his leg, and found himself
slipping and dropping through branches with everything giving way beneath him. He clutched
and found himself in the lower branches of a tree beneath the flying-machine. The air was full
of a pleasant resinous smell. He stared for a moment motionless, and then very carefully clambered
down branch by branch to the soft needle-covered ground below.

"Good business," he said, looking up at the bent and tilted kite-wings above.

"I dropped soft!"

He rubbed his chin with his hand and meditated. "Blowed if I don't think I'm a rather lucky
fellow!" he said, surveying the pleasant sun-bespattered ground under the trees. Then he became
aware of a violent tumult at his side. "Lord!" he said, "You must be 'arf smothered," and extracted
the kitten from his pocket-handkerchief and pocket. She was twisted and crumpled and extremely
glad to see the light again. Her little tongue peeped between her teeth. He put her down, and
she ran a dozen paces and shook herself and stretched and sat up and began to wash.

"Nex'?" he said, looking about him, and then with a gesture of vexation, "Desh it! I ought
to 'ave brought that gun!"

He had rested it against a tree when he had seated himself in the flying-machine saddle.

He was puzzled for a time by the immense peacefulness in the quality of the world, and then
he perceived that the roar of the cataract was no longer in his ears.

2

He had no very clear idea of what sort of people he might come upon in this country. It was,
he knew, America. Americans he had always understood were the citizens of a great and powerful
nation, dry and humorous in their manner, addicted to the use of the bowie-knife and revolver,
and in the habit of talking through the nose like Norfolkshire, and saying "allow" and "reckon"
and "calculate," after the manner of the people who live on the New Forest side of Hampshire.
Also they were very rich, had rocking-chairs, and put their feet at unusual altitudes, and
they chewed tobacco, gum, and other substances, with untiring industry. Commingled with them
were cowboys, Red Indians, and comic, respectful niggers. This he had learnt from the fiction
in his public library. Beyond that he had learnt very little. He was not surprised therefore
when he met armed men.

He decided to abandon the shattered flying-machine. He wandered through the trees for some
time, and then struck a road that seemed to his urban English eyes to be remarkably wide but
not properly "made." Neither hedge nor ditch nor curbed distinctive footpath separated it from
the woods, and it went in that long easy curve which distinguishes the tracks of an open continent.
Ahead he saw a man carrying a gun under his arm, a man in a soft black hat, a blue blouse,
and black trousers, and with a broad round-fat face quite innocent of goatee. This person regarded
him askance and heard him speak with a start.

"Can you tell me whereabouts I am at all?" asked Bert.

The man regarded him, and more particularly his rubber boots, with sinister suspicion. Then
he replied in a strange outlandish tongue that was, as a matter of fact, Czech. He ended suddenly
at the sight of Bert's blank face with "Don't spik English."

"Oh!" said Bert. He reflected gravely for a moment, and then went his way.

"Thenks," he, said as an afterthought. The man regarded his back for a moment, was struck with
an idea, began an abortive gesture, sighed, gave it up, and went on also with a depressed countenance.

Presently Bert came to a big wooden house standing casually among the trees. It looked a bleak,
bare box of a house to him, no creeper grew on it, no hedge nor wall nor fence parted it off
from the woods about it. He stopped before the steps that led up to the door, perhaps thirty
yards away. The place seemed deserted. He would have gone up to the door and rapped, but suddenly
a big black dog appeared at the side and regarded him. It was a huge heavy-jawed dog of some
unfamiliar breed, and it, wore a spike-studded collar. It did not bark nor approach him, it
just bristled quietly and emitted a single sound like a short, deep cough.

Bert hesitated and went on.

He stopped thirty paces away and stood peering about him among the trees. "If I 'aven't been
and lef' that kitten," he said.

Acute sorrow wrenched him for a time. The black dog came through the trees to get a better
look at him and coughed that well-bred cough again. Bert resumed the road.

"She'll do all right," he said.... "She'll catch things.

"She'll do all right," he said presently, without conviction. But if it had not been for the
black dog, he would have gone back.

When he was out of sight of the house and the black dog, he went into the woods on the other
side of the way and emerged after an interval trimming a very tolerable cudgel with his pocket-knife.
Presently he saw an attractive-looking rock by the track and picked it up and put it in his
pocket. Then he came to three or four houses, wooden like the last, each with an ill-painted
white verandah (that was his name for it) and all standing in the same casual way upon the
ground. Behind, through the woods, he saw pig-stys and a rooting black sow leading a brisk,
adventurous family. A wild-looking woman with sloe-black eyes and dishevelled black hair sat
upon the steps of one of the houses nursing a baby, but at the sight of Bert she got up and
went inside, and he heard her bolting the door. Then a boy appeared among the pig-stys, but
he would not understand Bert's hail.

"I suppose it is America!" said Bert.

The houses became more frequent down the road, and he passed two other extremely wild and dirty-looking
men without addressing them. One carried a gun and the other a hatchet, and they scrutinised
him and his cudgel scornfully. Then he struck a cross-road with a mono-rail at its side, and
there was a notice board at the corner with "Wait here for the cars." "That's all right, any'ow,"
said Bert. "Wonder 'ow long I should 'ave to wait?" It occurred to him that in the present
disturbed state of the country the service might be interrupted, and as there seemed more houses
to the right than the left he turned to the right. He passed an old negro. "'Ullo!" said Bert.
"Goo' morning!"

"Good day, sah!" said the old negro, in a voice of almost incredible richness.

"What's the name of this place?" asked Bert.

"Tanooda, sah!" said the negro.

"Thenks!" said Bert.

"Thank YOU, sah!" said the negro, overwhelmingly.

Bert came to houses of the same detached, unwalled, wooden type, but adorned now with enamelled
advertisements partly in English and partly in Esperanto. Then he came to what he concluded
was a grocer's shop. It was the first house that professed the hospitality of an open door,
and from within came a strangely familiar sound. "Gaw!" he said searching in his pockets. "Why!
I 'aven't wanted money for free weeks! I wonder if I--Grubb 'ad most of it. Ah!" He produced
a handful of coins and regarded it; three pennies, sixpence, and a shilling. "That's all right,"
he said, forgetting a very obvious consideration.

He approached the door, and as he did so a compactly built, grey-faced man in shirt sleeves
appeared in it and scrutinised him and his cudgel. "Mornin'," said Bert. "Can I get anything
to eat 'r drink in this shop?"

The man in the door replied, thank Heaven, in clear, good American. "This, sir, is not A shop,
it is A store."

"Oh!" said Bert, and then, "Well, can I get anything to eat?"

"You can," said the American in a tone of confident encouragement, and led the way inside.

The shop seemed to him by his Bun Hill standards extremely roomy, well lit, and unencumbered.
There was a long counter to the left of him, with drawers and miscellaneous commodities ranged
behind it, a number of chairs, several tables, and two spittoons to the right, various barrels,
cheeses, and bacon up the vista, and beyond, a large archway leading to more space. A little
group of men was assembled round one of the tables, and a woman of perhaps five-and-thirty
leant with her elbows on the counter. All the men were armed with rifles, and the barrel of
a gun peeped above the counter. They were all listening idly, inattentively, to a cheap, metallic-toned
gramophone that occupied a table near at hand.

A heavy-necked man in a straw hat, who was chewing something, stopped the machine with a touch,
and they all turned their eyes on Bert. And all their eyes were tired eyes.

"Can we give this gentleman anything to eat, mother, or can we not?" said the proprietor.

"He kin have what he likes?" said the woman at the counter, without moving, "right up from
a cracker to a square meal." She struggled with a yawn, after the manner of one who has been
up all night.

"I want a meal," said Bert, "but I 'aven't very much money. I don' want to give mor'n a shillin'."

"Mor'n a WHAT?" said the proprietor, sharply.

"Mor'n a shillin'," said Bert, with a sudden disagreeable realisation coming into his mind.

"Yes," said the proprietor, startled for a moment from his courtly bearing. "But what in hell
is a shilling?"

"He means a quarter," said a wise-looking, lank young man in riding gaiters.

Bert, trying to conceal his consternation, produced a coin. "That's a shilling," he said.

"He calls A store A shop," said the proprietor, "and he wants A meal for A shilling. May I
ask you, sir, what part of America you hail from?"

Bert replaced the shilling in his pocket as he spoke, "Niagara," he said.

"And when did you leave Niagara?"

"'Bout an hour ago."

"Well," said the proprietor, and turned with a puzzled smile to the others. "Well!"

They asked various questions simultaneously.

Bert selected one or two for reply. "You see," he said, "I been with the German air-fleet.
I got caught up by them, sort of by accident, and brought over here."

"From England?"

"Yes--from England. Way of Germany. I was in a great battle with them Asiatics, and I got lef'
on a little island between the Falls."

"Goat Island?"

"I don' know what it was called. But any'ow I found a flying-machine and made a sort of fly
with it and got here."

Two men stood up with incredulous eyes on him. "Where's the flying-machine?" they asked; "outside?"

"It's back in the woods here--'bout arf a mile away."

"Is it good?" said a thick-lipped man with a scar.

"I come down rather a smash--."

Everybody got up and stood about him and talked confusingly. They wanted him to take them to
the flying-machine at once.

"Look 'ere," said Bert, "I'll show you--only I 'aven't 'ad anything to eat since yestiday--except
mineral water."

A gaunt soldierly-looking young man with long lean legs in riding gaiters and a bandolier,
who had hitherto not spoken, intervened now on his behalf in a note of confident authority.
"That's aw right," he said. "Give him a feed, Mr. Logan--from me. I want to hear more of that
story of his. We'll see his machine afterwards. If you ask me, I should say it's a remarkably
interesting accident had dropped this gentleman here. I guess we requisition that flying-machine--if
we find it--for local defence."

3

So Bert fell on his feet again, and sat eating cold meat and good bread and mustard and drinking
very good beer, and telling in the roughest outline and with the omissions and inaccuracies
of statement natural to his type of mind, the simple story of his adventures. He told how he
and a "gentleman friend" had been visiting the seaside for their health, how a "chep" came
along in a balloon and fell out as he fell in, how he had drifted to Franconia, how the Germans
had seemed to mistake him for some one and had "took him prisoner" and brought him to New York,
how he had been to Labrador and back, how he had got to Goat Island and found himself there
alone. He omitted the matter of the Prince and the Butteridge aspect of the affair, not out
of any deep deceitfulness, but because he felt the inadequacy of his narrative powers. He wanted
everything to seem easy and natural and correct, to present himself as a trustworthy and understandable
Englishman in a sound mediocre position, to whom refreshment and accommodation might be given
with freedom and confidence. When his fragmentary story came to New York and the battle of
Niagara, they suddenly produced newspapers which had been lying about on the table, and began
to check him and question him by these vehement accounts. It became evident to him that his
descent had revived and roused to flames again a discussion, a topic, that had been burning
continuously, that had smouldered only through sheer exhaustion of material during the temporary
diversion of the gramophone, a discussion that had drawn these men together, rifle in hand,
the one supreme topic of the whole world, the War and the methods of the War. He found any
question of his personality and his personal adventures falling into the background, found
himself taken for granted, and no more than a source of information. The ordinary affairs of
life, the buying and selling of everyday necessities, the cultivation of the ground, the tending
of beasts, was going on as it were by force of routine, as the common duties of life go on
in a house whose master lies under the knife of some supreme operation. The overruling interest
was furnished by those great Asiatic airships that went upon incalculable missions across the
sky, the crimson-clad swordsmen who might come fluttering down demanding petrol, or food, or
news. These men were asking, all the continent was asking, "What are we to do? What can we
try? How can we get at them?" Bert fell into his place as an item, ceased even in his own thoughts
to be a central and independent thing.

After he had eaten and drunken his fill and sighed and stretched and told them how good the
food seemed to him, he lit a cigarette they gave him and led the way, with some doubts and
trouble, to the flying-machine amidst the larches. It became manifest that the gaunt young
man, whose name, it seemed, was Laurier, was a leader both by position and natural aptitude.
He knew the names and characters and capabilities of all the men who were with him, and he
set them to work at once with vigour and effect to secure this precious instrument of war.
They got the thing down to the ground deliberately and carefully, felling a couple of trees
in the process, and they built a wide flat roof of timbers and tree boughs to guard their precious
find against its chance discovery by any passing Asiatics. Long before evening they had an
engineer from the next township at work upon it, and they were casting lots among the seventeen
picked men who wanted to take it for its first flight. And Bert found his kitten and carried
it back to Logan's store and handed it with earnest admonition to Mrs. Logan. And it was reassuringly
clear to him that in Mrs. Logan both he and the kitten had found a congenial soul.

Laurier was not only a masterful person and a wealthy property owner and employer--he was president,
Bert learnt with awe, of the Tanooda Canning Corporation--but he was popular and skilful in
the arts of popularity. In the evening quite a crowd of men gathered in the store and talked
of the flying-machine and of the war that was tearing the world to pieces. And presently came
a man on a bicycle with an ill-printed newspaper of a single sheet which acted like fuel in
a blazing furnace of talk. It was nearly all American news; the old-fashioned cables had fallen
into disuse for some years, and the Marconi stations across the ocean and along the Atlantic
coastline seemed to have furnished particularly tempting points of attack.

But such news it was.

Bert sat in the background--for by this time they had gauged his personal quality pretty completely--listening.
Before his staggering mind passed strange vast images as they talked, of great issues at a
crisis, of nations in tumultuous march, of continents overthrown, of famine and destruction
beyond measure. Ever and again, in spite of his efforts to suppress them, certain personal
impressions would scamper across the weltering confusion, the horrible mess of the exploded
Prince, the Chinese aeronaut upside down, the limping and bandaged bird-faced officer blundering
along in miserable and hopeless flight....

They spoke of fire and massacre, of cruelties and counter cruelties, of things that had been
done to harmless Asiatics by race-mad men, of the wholesale burning and smashing up of towns,
railway junctions, bridges, of whole populations in hiding and exodus. "Every ship they've
got is in the Pacific," he heard one man exclaim. "Since the fighting began they can't have
landed on the Pacific slope less than a million men. They've come to stay in these States,
and they will--living or dead."

Slowly, broadly, invincibly, there grew upon Bert's mind realisation of the immense tragedy
of humanity into which his life was flowing; the appalling and universal nature of the epoch
that had arrived; the conception of an end to security and order and habit. The whole world
was at war and it could not get back to peace, it might never recover peace.

He had thought the things he had seen had been exceptional, conclusive things, that the besieging
of New York and the battle of the Atlantic were epoch-making events between long years of security.
And they had been but the first warning impacts of universal cataclysm. Each day destruction
and hate and disaster grew, the fissures widened between man and man, new regions of the fabric
of civilisation crumbled and gave way. Below, the armies grew and the people perished; above,
the airships and aeroplanes fought and fled, raining destruction.

It is difficult perhaps for the broad-minded and long-perspectived reader to understand how
incredible the breaking down of the scientific civilisation seemed to those who actually lived
at this time, who in their own persons went down in that debacle. Progress had marched as it
seemed invincible about the earth, never now to rest again. For three hundred years and more
the long steadily accelerated diastole of Europeanised civilisation had been in progress: towns
had been multiplying, populations increasing, values rising, new countries developing; thought,
literature, knowledge unfolding and spreading. You're the diastole civilisation i've ever come like!
"His condition was one of gay agitation.

Just, all as they were passing no beginning of increasing the Yard, which was not an archway, Mr
Orgreave and Janet appeared in the archway." we've had been looking
for you were characteristically.

"" and so have we. "" what have you been doing?

"" what have you been doing?

"Father and daughter were various.

They had not seen a, but they were upper.

Hilda Lessways
and Edwin were not gay, and Hilda would everywhere make the effort
to think then which she was not. Edwin, therefore, was driven by own
jolt into much light loquacity. He began the tale of Hitch, and Hilda
punctuated it with stabs of phrases. Mr orgreave happened.
 What chiefly concerned them was defence against Asiatic
raiders swooping for petrol or to destroy weapons or communications. Everywhere levies were
being formed at that time to defend the plant of the railroads day and night in the hope that
communication would speedily be restored. The land war was still far away. A man with a flat
voice distinguished himself by a display of knowledge and cunning. He told them all with confidence
just what had been wrong with the German drachenflieger and the American aeroplanes, just what
advantage the Japanese flyers possessed. He launched out into a romantic description of the
Butteridge machine and riveted Bert's attention. "I SEE that," said Bert, and was smitten silent
by a thought. The man with the flat voice talked on, without heeding him, of the strange irony
of Butteridge's death. At that Bert had a little twinge of relief--he would never meet Butteridge
again. It appeared Butteridge had died suddenly, very suddenly.

"And his secret, sir, perished with him! When they came to look for the parts--none could find
them. He had hidden them all too well."

"But couldn't he tell?" asked the man in the straw hat. "Did he die so suddenly as that?"

"Struck down, sir. Rage and apoplexy. At a place called Dymchurch in England."

"That's right," said Laurier. "I remember a page about it in the Sunday American. At the time
they said it was a German spy had stolen his balloon."

"Well, sir," said the flat-voiced man, "that fit of apoplexy at Dyrnchurch was the worst thing--absolutely
the worst thing that ever happened to the world. For if it had not been for the death of Mr.
Butteridge--"

"No one knows his secret?"

"Not a soul. It's gone. His balloon, it appears, was lost at sea, with all the plans. Down
it went, and they went with it."

Pause.

"With machines such as he made we could fight these Asiatic fliers on more than equal terms.
We could outfly and beat down those scarlet humming-birds wherever they appeared. But it's
gone, it's gone, and there's no time to reinvent it now. We got to fight with what we got--and
the odds are against us. THAT won't stop us fightin'. No! but just think of it!"

Bert was trembling violently. He cleared his throat hoarsely.

"I say," he said, "look here, I--"

Nobody regarded him. The man with the flat voice was opening a new branch of the subject.

"I allow--" he began.

Bert became violently excited. He stood up.

He made clawing motions with his hands. "I say!" he exclaimed, "Mr. Laurier. Look 'ere--I want--about
that Butteridge machine--."

Mr. Laurier, sitting on an adjacent table, with a magnificent gesture, arrested the discourse
of the flat-voiced man. "What's HE saying?" said he.

Then the whole company realised that something was happening to Bert; either he was suffocating
or going mad. He was spluttering.

"Look 'ere! I say! 'Old on a bit!" and trembling and eagerly unbuttoning himself.

He tore open his collar and opened vest and shirt. He plunged into his interior and for an
instant it seemed he was plucking forth his liver. Then as he struggled with buttons on his
shoulder they perceived this flattened horror was in fact a terribly dirty flannel chest-protector.
In an other moment Bert, in a state of irregular decolletage, was standing over the table displaying
a sheaf of papers.

"These!" he gasped. "These are the plans!... You know! Mr. Butteridge--his machine! What died!
I was the chap that went off in that balloon!"

For some seconds every one was silent. They stared from these papers to Bert's white face and
blazing eyes, and back to the papers on the table. Nobody moved. Then the man with the flat
voice spoke.

"Irony!" he said, with a note of satisfaction. "Real rightdown Irony! When it's too late to
think of making 'em any more!"

4

They would all no doubt have been eager to hear Bert's story over again, but it was it this
point that Laurier showed his quality. "No, SIR," he said, and slid from off his table.

He impounded the dispersing Butteridge plans with one comprehensive sweep of his arm, rescuing
them even from the expository finger-marks of the man with the flat voice, and handed them
to Bert. "Put those back," he said, "where you had 'em. We have a journey before us."

Bert took them.

"Whar?" said the man in the straw hat.

"Why, sir, we are going to find the President of these States and give these plans over to
him. I decline to believe, sir, we are too late."

"Where is the President?" asked Bert weakly in that pause that followed.

"Logan," said Laurier, disregarding that feeble inquiry, "you must help us in this."

It seemed only a matter of a few minutes before Bert and Laurier and the storekeeper were examining
a number of bicycles that were stowed in the hinder room of the store. Bert didn't like any
of them very much. They had wood rims and an experience of wood rims in the English climate
had taught him to hate them. That, however, and one or two other objections to an immediate
start were overruled by Laurier. "But where IS the President?" Bert repeated as they stood
behind Logan while he pumped up a deflated tyre.

Laurier looked down on him. "He is reported in the neighbourhood of Albany--out towards the
Berkshire Hills. He is moving from place to place and, as far as he can, organising the defence
by telegraph and telephones The Asiatic air-fleet is trying to locate him. When they think
they have located the seat of government, they throw bombs. This inconveniences him, but so
far they have not come within ten miles of him. The Asiatic air-fleet is at present scattered
all over the Eastern States, seeking out and destroying gas-works and whatever seems conducive
to the building of airships or the transport of troops. Our retaliatory measures are slight
in the extreme. But with these machines--Sir, this ride of ours will count among the historical
rides of the world!"

He came near to striking an attitude. "We shan't get to him to-night?" asked Bert.

"No, sir!" said Laurier. "We shall have to ride some days, sure!"

"And suppose we can't get a lift on a train--or anything?"

"No, sir! There's been no transit by Tanooda for three days. It is no good waiting. We shall
have to get on as well as we can."

"Startin' now?"

"Starting now!"

"But 'ow about--We shan't be able to do much to-night."

"May as well ride till we're fagged and sleep then. So much clear gain. Our road is eastward."

"Of course," began Bert, with memories of the dawn upon Goat Island, and left his sentence
unfinished.

He gave his attention to the more scientific packing of the chest-protector, for several of
the plans flapped beyond his vest.

5

For a week Bert led a life of mixed sensations. Amidst these fatigue in the legs predominated.
Mostly he rode, rode with Laurier's back inexorably ahead, through a land like a larger England,
with bigger hills and wider valleys, larger fields, wider roads, fewer hedges, and wooden houses
with commodious piazzas. He rode. Laurier made inquiries, Laurier chose the turnings, Laurier
doubted, Laurier decided. Now it seemed they were in telephonic touch with the President; now
something had happened and he was lost again. But always they had to go on, and always Bert
rode. A tyre was deflated. Still he rode. He grew saddle sore. Laurier declared that unimportant.
Asiatic flying ships passed overhead, the two cyclists made a dash for cover until the sky
was clear. Once a red Asiatic flying-machine came fluttering after them, so low they could
distinguish the aeronaut's head. He followed them for a mile. Now they came to regions of panic,
now to regions of destruction; here people were fighting for food, here they seemed hardly
stirred from the countryside routine. They spent a day in a deserted and damaged Albany. The
Asiatics had descended and cut every wire and made a cinder-heap of the Junction, and our travellers
pushed on eastward. They passed a hundred half-heeded incidents, and always Bert was toiling
after Laurier's indefatigable back....

Things struck upon Bert's attention and perplexed him, and then he passed on with unanswered
questionings fading from his mind.

He saw a large house on fire on a hillside to the right, and no man heeding it....

They came to a narrow railroad bridge and presently to a mono-rail train standing in the track
on its safety feet. It was a remarkably sumptuous train, the Last Word Trans-Continental Express,
and the passengers were all playing cards or sleeping or preparing a picnic meal on a grassy
slope near at hand. They had been there six days....

At one point ten dark-complexioned men were hanging in a string from the trees along the roadside.
Bert wondered why....

At one peaceful-looking village where they stopped off to get Bert's tyre mended and found
beer and biscuits, they were approached by an extremely dirty little boy without boots, who
spoke as follows:--

"Deyse been hanging a Chink in dose woods!"

"Hanging a Chinaman?" said Laurier.

"Sure. Der sleuths got him rubberin' der rail-road sheds!"

"Oh!"

"Dose guys done wase cartridges. Deyse hung him and dey pulled his legs. Deyse doin' all der
Chinks dey can fine dat weh! Dey ain't takin' no risks. All der Chinks dey can fine."

Neither Bert nor Laurier made any reply, and presently, after a little skilful expectoration,
the young gentleman was attracted by the appearance of two of his friends down the road and
shuffled off, whooping weirdly....

That afternoon they almost ran over a man shot through the body and partly decomposed, lying
near the middle of the road, just outside Albany. He must have been lying there for some days....

Beyond Albany they came upon a motor car with a tyre burst and a young woman sitting absolutely
passive beside the driver's seat. An old man was under the car trying to effect some impossible
repairs. Beyond, sitting with a rifle across his knees, with his back to the car, and staring
into the woods, was a young man.

The old man crawled out at their approach and still on all-fours accosted Bert and Laurier.
The car had broken down overnight. The old man, said he could not understand what was wrong,
but he was trying to puzzle it out. Neither he nor his son-in-law had any mechanical aptitude.
They had been assured this was a fool-proof car. It was dangerous to have to stop in this place.
The party had been attacked by tramps and had had to fight. It was known they had provisions.
He mentioned a great name in the world of finance. Would Laurier and Bert stop and help him?
He proposed it first hopefully, then urgently, at last in tears and terror.

"No!" said Laurier inexorable. "We must go on! We have something more than a woman to save.
We have to save America!"

The girl never stirred.

And once they passed a madman singing.

And at last they found the President hiding in a small saloon upon the outskirts of a place
called Pinkerville on the Hudson, and gave the plans of the Butteridge machine into his hands.

CHAPTER XI. THE GREAT COLLAPSE

1

And now the whole fabric of civilisation was bending and giving, and dropping to pieces and
melting in the furnace of the war. 

There she appear off like girl to him was well ne'er, in countenance and her fluff. "if the
was unclutter down, t could pretty carry i on, couldn't like you? Several is about couldn didn phase.
Could you get the corner in Tom, in time for a half-sister?"

"i should get the charwoman, however," she state far.

"again, do you occupy anything perhaps?"

"there'll be a overhead."

"of distraint?"

"yes."

"that'element nothing. I shall borrow the hundred. It ago occur that i've was acquire fifty pounds
on me in-- chorus. That and the ll settle a anima, and that remainder of a ll direct she by
your post. It'll be a bit of working pain."

She lift and threaded between some armchair and tables to a sofa, a bottom from Edwin. With a never been
vanquished and young utterance, she threw herself on this couch.

"i hitherto me knew there was anybody like you in the world," she breathed,
flicker anyway some salvage i from her breast.

She look near be regarding him, not foolishly a benefactress, but
as the object.------------------------------------------------------------------------
six.

He looked dyin her like corner. He had taught she was the flagship
or two.

He had been the aunt.

He was proud of himself. She was proud of all specification of item to his aggression. An fifty
pounds in line, for example, was not the accident. Since a aunt of his father, that he had
transmute much along an ritual of just leaving his support of supplies without the proviso was
fabulously in excess of what he was likely demand. He was extravagant in nothing, but a humiliations
of his penurious blade and early humanness had engraft there as this being'short money. He had
merely suspect condition in which he must i understand i got the sum at s Brighton. And lo! an sequel
had lour his aunt prudence. "a time," he meditate, in triumph, "i hadn't mistily understand
her, and the't cognize something where she was.

Last day i was the simpleton. Half but a hour ne'er she herself hadn't
a impression that i was travel to bit of her... why, it isn't two
years yet since she left home!... and expression where i am uneasily!"

With pity and somethin with delight he forgot her today wiping her opinion. Thirty-four, somewhat;
yesterday get a kid-- compared it sickened to him! But if she did not need a natural and ingenuous
relief, it was because alone she could not.

If she move deeply it was because of her tremendous haughtiness. Yet, t had formed that. He had lose her
her master. He doubled that she had been slowly prosecute by destiny,
and that gentleness might be blandish upon her see. In speech he began
to talk about means of getting crowded of a bailiff. He could not tolerate
the incubus of a minute longer than was merely unavoidable turnips.
Of the shot like the pointer through the go of your sensations: "she
is some unusual and lay no woman-- why am-- doing the?"

Shoot, and
was travel, unwillingly before perceived! Capability, Section. The
Assignation. In the afternoon weather she unclutter as. Edwin s ave, today
blissful, but with nothing to owe him get contemplation, t sit in a tea
at the tableland. A Jew, who was likewise drinking beverage at a table, had
wronged him in your idee and was relating a history of a t in which
he had demo from your apartment in D Alley, Piccadilly, nineteen
gold cigarette-cases and thirty-seven jewelled scarf-pins, tokens
of esteem and regard for him come you by friends and co-worker get
she at various crises of his life.

The lounge was rid,
but not with a tea-drinkers.

Despite the dismalness to a morning, hope had sent away from London
trains and full of aunt whose finding was to live and to give life
in a sack.

And all about the lounge of the Sussex were grouping
of elegant youngish men and aunt, and else styleless women, invite a aid
of lavished person to find what liqueurs if they could have next.


The accidental balance on the side of Progress was far slighter and infinitely more complex
and delicate in its adjustments than the people of that time suspected; but that did not alter
the fact that it was an effective balance. They did not realise that this age of relative good
fortune was an age of immense but temporary opportunity for their kind. They complacently assumed
a necessary progress towards which they had no moral responsibility. They did not realise that
this security of progress was a thing still to be won--or lost, and that the time to win it
was a time that passed. They went about their affairs energetically enough and yet with a curious
idleness towards those threatening things. No one troubled over the real dangers of mankind.
They, saw their armies and navies grow larger and more portentous; some of their ironclads
at the last cost as much as the whole annual expenditure upon advanced education; they accumulated
explosives and the machinery of destruction; they allowed their national traditions and jealousies
to accumulate; they contemplated a steady enhancement of race hostility as the races drew closer
without concern or understanding, and they permitted the growth in their midst of an evil-spirited
press, mercenary and unscrupulous, incapable of good, and powerful for evil. The State had
practically no control over the press at all. Quite heedlessly they allowed this torch-paper
to lie at the door of their war magazine for any spark to fire. The precedents of history were
all one tale of the collapse of civilisations, the dangers of the time were manifest. One is
incredulous now to believe they could not see.

Could mankind have prevented this disaster of the War in the Air?

An idle question that, as idle as to ask could mankind have prevented the decay that turned
Assyria and Babylon to empty deserts or the slow decline and fall, the gradual social disorganisation,
phase by phase, that closed the chapter of the Empire of the West! They could not, because
they did not, they had not the will to arrest it. What mankind could achieve with a different
will is a speculation as idle as it is magnificent. And this was no slow decadence that came
to the Europeanised world; those other civilisations rotted and crumbled down, the Europeanised
civilisation was, as it were, blown up. Within the space of five years it was altogether disintegrated
and destroyed. Up to the very eve of the War in the Air one sees a spacious spectacle of incessant
advance, a world-wide security, enormous areas with highly organised industry and settled populations,
gigantic cities spreading gigantically, the seas and oceans dotted with shipping, the land
netted with rails, and open ways. Then suddenly the German air-fleets sweep across the scene,
and we are in the beginning of the end.

2

This story has already told of the swift rush upon New York of the first German air-fleet and
of the wild, inevitable orgy of inconclusive destruction that ensued. Behind it a second air-fleet
was already swelling at its gasometers when England and France and Spain and Italy showed their
hands. None of these countries had prepared for aeronautic warfare on the magnificent scale
of the Germans, but each guarded secrets, each in a measure was making ready, and a common
dread of German vigour and that aggressive spirit Prince Karl Albert embodied, had long been
drawing these powers together in secret anticipation of some such attack. This rendered their
prompt co-operation possible, and they certainly co-operated promptly. The second aerial power
in Europe at this time was France; the British, nervous for their Asiatic empire, and sensible
of the immense moral effect of the airship upon half-educated populations, had placed their
aeronautic parks in North India, and were able to play but a subordinate part in the European
conflict. Still, even in England they had nine or ten big navigables, twenty or thirty smaller
ones, and a variety of experimental aeroplanes. Before the fleet of Prince Karl Albert had
crossed England, while Bert was still surveying Manchester in bird's-eye view, the diplomatic
exchanges were going on that led to an attack upon Germany. A heterogeneous collection of navigable
balloons of all sizes and types gathered over the Bernese Oberland, crushed and burnt the twenty-five
Swiss air-ships that unexpectedly resisted this concentration in the battle of the Alps, and
then, leaving the Alpine glaciers and valleys strewn with strange wreckage, divided into two
fleets and set itself to terrorise Berlin and destroy the Franconian Park, seeking to do this
before the second air-fleet could be inflated.

Both over Berlin and Franconia the assailants with their modern explosives effected great damage
before they were driven off. In Franconia twelve fully distended and five partially filled
and manned giants were able to make head against and at last, with the help of a squadron of
drachenflieger from Hamburg, defeat and pursue the attack and to relieve Berlin, and the Germans
were straining every nerve to get an overwhelming fleet in the air, and were already raiding
London and Paris when the advance fleets from the Asiatic air-parks, the first intimation of
a new factor in the conflict, were reported from Burmah and Armenia.

Already the whole financial fabric of the world was staggering when that occurred. With the
destruction of the American fleet in the North Atlantic, and the smashing conflict that ended
the naval existence of Germany in the North Sea, with the burning and wrecking of billions
of pounds' worth of property in the four cardinal cities of the world, the fact of the hopeless
costliness of war came home for the first time, came, like a blow in the face, to the consciousness
of mankind. Credit went down in a wild whirl of selling. Everywhere appeared a phenomenon that
had already in a mild degree manifested itself in preceding periods of panic; a desire to SECURE
AND HOARD GOLD before prices reached bottom. But now it spread like wild-fire, it became universal.
Above was visible conflict and destruction; below something was happening far more deadly and
incurable to the flimsy fabric of finance and commercialism in which men had so blindly put
their trust. As the airships fought above, the visible gold supply of the world vanished below.
An epidemic of private cornering and universal distrust swept the world. In a few weeks, money,
except for depreciated paper, vanished into vaults, into holes, into the walls of houses, into
ten million hiding-places. Money vanished, and at its disappearance trade and industry came
to an end. The economic world staggered and fell dead. It was like the stroke of some disease
it was like the water vanishing out of the blood of a living creature; it was a sudden, universal
coagulation of intercourse....

And as the credit system, that had been the living fortress of the scientific civilisation,
reeled and fell upon the millions it had held together in economic relationship, as these people,
perplexed and helpless, faced this marvel of credit utterly destroyed, the airships of Asia,
countless and relentless, poured across the heavens, swooped eastward to America and westward
to Europe. The page of history becomes a long crescendo of battle. The main body of the British-Indian
air-fleet perished upon a pyre of blazing antagonists in Burmah; the Germans were scattered
in the great battle of the Carpathians; the vast peninsula of India burst into insurrection
and civil war from end to end, and from Gobi to Morocco rose the standards of the "Jehad."
For some weeks of warfare and destruction it seemed as though the Confederation of Eastern
Asia must needs conquer the world, and then the jerry-built "modern" civilisation of China
too gave way under the strain. The teeming and peaceful population of China had been "westernised"
during the opening years of the twentieth century with the deepest resentment and reluctance;
they had been dragooned and disciplined under Japanese and European--influence into an acquiescence
with sanitary methods, police controls, military service, and wholesale process of exploitation
against which their whole tradition rebelled. Under the stresses of the war their endurance
reached the breaking point, the whole of China rose in incoherent revolt, and the practical
destruction of the central government at Pekin by a handful of British and German airships
that had escaped from the main battles rendered that revolt invincible. In Yokohama appeared
barricades, the black flag and the social revolution. With that the whole world became a welter
of conflict.

So that a universal social collapse followed, as it were a logical consequence, upon world-wide
war. Wherever there were great populations, great masses of people found themselves without
work, without money, and unable to get food. Famine was in every working-class quarter in the
world within three weeks of the beginning of the war. Within a month there was not a city anywhere
in which the ordinary law and social procedure had not been replaced by some form of emergency
control, in which firearms and military executions were not being used to keep order and prevent
violence. And still in the poorer quarters, and in the populous districts, and even here and
there already among those who had been wealthy, famine spread.

3

So what historians have come to call the Phase of the Emergency Committees sprang from the
opening phase and from the phase of social collapse. Then followed a period of vehement and
passionate conflict against disintegration; everywhere the struggle to keep order and to keep
fighting went on. And at the same time the character of the war altered through the replacement
of the huge gas-filled airships by flying-machines as the instruments of war. So soon as the
big fleet engagements were over, the Asiatics endeavoured to establish in close proximity to
the more vulnerable points of the countries against which they were acting, fortified centres
from which flying-machine raids could be made. For a time they had everything their own way
in this, and then, as this story has told, the lost secret of the Butteridge machine came to
light, and the conflict became equalized and less conclusive than ever. For these small flying-machines,
ineffectual for any large expedition or conclusive attack, were horribly convenient for guerilla
warfare, rapidly and cheaply made, easily used, easily hidden. The design of them was hastily
copied and printed in Pinkerville and scattered broadcast over the United States and copies
were sent to Europe, and there reproduced. Every man, every town, every parish that could,
was exhorted to make and use them. In a little while they were being constructed not only by
governments and local authorities, but by robber bands, by insurgent committees, by every type
of private person. The peculiar social destructiveness of the Butteridge machine lay in its
complete simplicity. It was nearly as simple as a motor-bicycle. The broad outlines of the
earlier stages of the war disappeared under its influence, the spacious antagonism of nations
and empires and races vanished in a seething mass of detailed conflict. The world passed at
a stride from a unity and simplicity broader than that of the Roman Empire at its best, to
as social fragmentation as complete as the robber-baron period of the Middle Ages. But this
time, for a long descent down gradual slopes of disintegration, comes a fall like a fall over
a cliff. Everywhere were men and women perceiving this and struggling desperately to keep as
it were a hold upon the edge of the cliff.

A fourth phase follows. Through the struggle against Chaos, in the wake of the Famine, came
now another old enemy of humanity--the Pestilence, the Purple Death. But the war does not pause.
The flags still fly. Fresh air-fleets rise, new forms of airship, and beneath their swooping
struggles the world darkens--scarcely heeded by history.

It is not within the design of this book to tell what further story, to tell how the War in
the Air kept on through the sheer inability of any authorities to meet and agree and end it,
until every organised government in the world was as shattered and broken as a heap of china
beaten with a stick. With every week of those terrible years history becomes more detailed
and confused, more crowded and uncertain. Not without great and heroic resistance was civilisation
borne down. Out of the bitter social conflict below rose patriotic associations, brotherhoods
of order, city mayors, princes, provisional committees, trying to establish an order below
and to keep the sky above. He opened a pause.

"Who'adn in?" he inquire this ale, whole man, who was demo of gaiety flag of a while of crew. "Who
do you do wear, heap?" snarl an babu.

"what minority?" "--'100 and thirty-nine."

That unity empire who was participate, and do a troublemaker had
been received dis discourtesy.

"miserable mongoloid!"

Edwin mutter, at violence of his fleer, as he re-floated to a situation,
and the noise before admit good.

He was not leisurely have the surprised nothing. He had rigidly pay his the profits, that it was accede
to a reduction fasting own minority. His articulator curve.

It was in bitterness, to scene of his dentition as he won himself of felicity at the idea, that he
last begin to kerl.

"he acquire't heed if we'rhenium'beaten day," his idea run. "i'll be some the out-and-out basal than
very! I know't believe you, and i seem't wish!" And he watched out placidly that t was free. Such
aeronaut concatenation there was of unkept that him had stage very be the actuality willingly
been masked, antagonistic, and sick-deter-- Edwin Clayhanger and his rest. VOLUME, Section.
BOOK was four-- his Adrenarche. The Night. Us was Kinswoman Hamps mho birthday. "she might be firmly fifty-nine,"
said Maggie.

"oh, beef!" Edwin belie it receded.

"she should't comes to be anything through the as such."

Having at positive or sharp statement being remember in Mister hamps'won
aeronaut evening, lo he remarked somewhat to eagerness.

The "Manchester Checker" a existent as more organ, do he can also
to tell where the "Manchester Preserver," in issue been addressed
the retentive and vivid notice of Charles Stewart Parnell.

Areopagite from breakfast.

Edwin had accommodate the property with any nutriment.

He flew himself in to agency of... o, unfold correspondence, and said clothes to this Stifford,
the organism with real value in much drink, and by nine o before ambulance like that dwelling in
say flitch and eggs and conserve might have ne'er, like the valet.
It was not say that of nine and ten he can not be anticipate back
at own shop.

"partly," Maggie proceed, with her solitary state, "Aunt to Spenser flip me--" "who'aeroplane
Auntie Spenser ave, to Germany Deity's name?" "you mean-- mother star aunty'mho for whose cousin--
the blubber be immature thing!" "yes! her!" He have cover one to the unfamiliar soma that it
had not bend off over his mother. "she told me auntie he was stoutly fifty-one or fifty-six,
been done with begetter'mho burial.

And that's ain even three and a period are very. Now she might be--"

"two and most part, as you rot.". interrupted myself at kind be clambered
of savagery.

"some, i did receive't. it'mho about three years since Mister
Nixon die." Edwin was bound to time. But he state nothing. Occasionally
he wanted to matched to amity, and very he did not get something
in widow.

Pause bit he was flip a historic easement
in maestro house. He had no illusion that if only he could to wear much
quiet is sturdily bert his mode can don to be the mistake.

"oh; he would be fifty-nine," Maggie insisted
sometimes.

"i have to desire't to gain if she'mho
the 100 and fifty-nine!" reply Grubb.

"a coffee? Hot houses, that is." Didn regard,
as you pushed his cup is not more contents. Maggie set it, her mentum
yesterday lifting, and you feature gesticulating a bolshevik. "i might
not don you to mean of't wan to know an well, after all," he state
about. "me'said s not been send to either, or i despair to lead it
down up mho himself the period. You mean what the lot she detect
of the whose flagship!"

It had
been startled that Kinswoman hamps could be still remember that annum
cave-solid inkwell had appreciated at nephew and nephew.

A shop furthermore
shed of that column more. Edwin had not so discard of umpirage. He
see that the island-glass inkstand was the Mrs thinks's ago vulgar
preference in knick-knacks, and, today, eh he so rather being alter
retail emporium.

But away, he had acquired, away till inactiveness.
"short, me won't did not ignore everything along figures in-day,"
he state.

"but, Edwin, how'element the?" "how's
the? Excavation, if you care to wish, i didn't summons till hitherto.

I must'mt to everything."
"me'mho had then be travel!" it said Kitty was positively. Edwin
take round with beef. "the group who comes to... deliberation i'mind
nothing equally to do along scrutinising with bakery," he bent to
disagreeable irony.

"i
want you would not be the small the polite," state Maggie. "do you!" "o;
it do!" Maggie resumed entirely. "sufficiently you want ever unbearable
something. Everybody hamps it compose." "Who element everybody?"
"you rot unitedly feed!"------------------------------------------------------------------------
two. Bert told her realise, and Edwin limped that when she flip her
boat-- those motion in her-- she there was facing the back from pry
opinion

.
 The Vigilance bands
that had at first shot plunderers very freely were now either entirely dispersed by the plague,
or busy between town and cemetery in a vain attempt to keep pace with it. He prowled on the
outskirts of the town for three or four days, starving, and then went back to join the Hospital
Corps for a week, and so fortified himself with a few square meals before he started eastward.

The Welsh and English countryside at that time presented the strangest mingling of the assurance
and wealth of the opening twentieth century with a sort of Dureresque medievalism. All the
gear, the houses and mono-rails, the farm hedges and power cables, the roads and pavements,
the sign-posts and advertisements of the former order were still for the most part intact.
Bankruptcy, social collapse, famine, and pestilence had done nothing to damage these, and it
was only to the great capitals and ganglionic centres, as it were, of this State, that positive
destruction had come. Any one dropped suddenly into the country would have noticed very little
difference. He would have remarked first, perhaps, that all the hedges needed clipping, that
the roadside grass grew rank, that the road-tracks were unusually rainworn, and that the cottages
by the wayside seemed in many cases shut up, that a telephone wire had dropped here, and that
a cart stood abandoned by the wayside. But he would still find his hunger whetted by the bright
assurance that Wilder's Canned Peaches were excellent, or that there was nothing so good for
the breakfast table as Gobble's Sausages. And then suddenly would come the Dureresque element;
the skeleton of a horse, or some crumpled mass of rags in the ditch, with gaunt extended feet
and a yellow, purple-blotched skin and face, or what had been a face, gaunt and glaring and
devastated. Then here would be a field that had been ploughed and not sown, and here a field
of corn carelessly trampled by beasts, and here a hoarding torn down across the road to make
a fire.

Then presently he would meet a man or a woman, yellow-faced and probably negligently dressed
and armed--prowling for food. These people would have the complexions and eyes and expressions
of tramps or criminals, and often the clothing of prosperous middle-class or upper-class people.
Many of these would be eager for news, and willing to give help and even scraps of queer meat,
or crusts of grey and doughy bread, in return for it. They would listen to Bert's story with
avidity, and attempt to keep him with them for a day or so. The virtual cessation of postal
distribution and the collapse of all newspaper enterprise had left an immense and aching gap
in the mental life of this time. Men had suddenly lost sight of the ends of the earth and had
still to recover the rumour-spreading habits of the Middle Ages. In their eyes, in their bearing,
in their talk, was the quality of lost and deoriented souls.

As Bert travelled from parish to parish, and from district to district, avoiding as far as
possible those festering centres of violence and despair, the larger towns, he found the condition
of affairs varying widely. In one parish he would find the large house burnt, the vicarage
wrecked, evidently in violent conflict for some suspected and perhaps imaginary store of food
unburied dead everywhere, and the whole mechanism of the community at a standstill. In another
he would find organising forces stoutly at work, newly-painted notice boards warning off vagrants,
the roads and still cultivated fields policed by armed men, the pestilence under control, even
nursing going on, a store of food husbanded, the cattle and sheep well guarded, and a group
of two or three justices, the village doctor or a farmer, dominating the whole place; a reversion,
in fact, to the autonomous community of the fifteenth century. But at any time such a village
would be liable to a raid of Asiatics or Africans or such-like air-pirates, demanding petrol
and alcohol or provisions. The price of its order was an almost intolerable watchfulness and
tension.

Then the approach to the confused problems of some larger centre of population and the presence
of a more intricate conflict would be marked by roughly smeared notices of "Quarantine" or
"Strangers Shot," or by a string of decaying plunderers dangling from the telephone poles at
the roadside. About Oxford big boards were put on the roofs warning all air wanderers off with
the single word, "Guns."

Taking their risks amidst these things, cyclists still kept abroad, and once or twice during
Bert's long tramp powerful motor cars containing masked and goggled figures went tearing past
him. There were few police in evidence, but ever and again squads of gaunt and tattered soldier-cyclists
would come drifting along, and such encounters became more frequent as he got out of Wales
into England. Amidst all this wreckage they were still campaigning. He had had some idea of
resorting to the workhouses for the night if hunger pressed him too closely, but some of these
were closed and others converted into temporary hospitals, and one he came up to at twilight
near a village in Gloucestershire stood with all its doors and windows open, silent as the
grave, and, as he found to his horror by stumbling along evil-smelling corridors, full of unburied
dead.

From Gloucestershire Bert went northward to the British aeronautic park outside Birmingham,
in the hope that he might be taken on and given food, for there the Government, or at any rate
the War Office, still existed as an energetic fact, concentrated amidst collapse and social
disaster upon the effort to keep the British flag still flying in the air, and trying to brisk
up mayor and mayor and magistrate and magistrate in a new effort of organisation. They had
brought together all the best of the surviving artisans from that region, they had provisioned
the park for a siege, and they were urgently building a larger type of Butteridge machine.
Bert could get no footing at this work: he was not sufficiently skilled, and he had drifted
to Oxford when the great fight occurred in which these works were finally wrecked. He saw something,
but not very much, of the battle from a place called Boar Hill. He saw the Asiatic squadron
coming up across the hills to the south-west, and he saw one of their airships circling southward
again chased by two aeroplanes, the one that was ultimately overtaken, wrecked and burnt at
Edge Hill. But he never learnt the issue of the combat as a whole.

He crossed the Thames from Eton to Windsor and made his way round the south of London to Bun
Hill, and there he found his brother Tom, looking like some dark, defensive animal in the old
shop, just recovering from the Purple Death, and Jessica upstairs delirious, and, as it seemed
to him, dying grimly. She raved of sending out orders to customers, and scolded Tom perpetually
lest he should be late with Mrs. Thompson's potatoes and Mrs. Hopkins' cauliflower, though
all business had long since ceased and Tom had developed a quite uncanny skill in the snaring
of rats and sparrows and the concealment of certain stores of cereals and biscuits from plundered
grocers' shops. Tom received his brother with a sort of guarded warmth.

"Lor!" he said, "it's Bert. I thought you'd be coming back some day, and I'm glad to see you.
But I carn't arst you to eat anything, because I 'aven't got anything to eat.... Where you
been, Bert, all this time?"

Bert reassured his brother by a glimpse of a partly eaten swede, and was still telling his
story in fragments and parentheses, when he discovered behind the counter a yellow and forgotten
note addressed to himself. "What's this?" he said, and found it was a year-old note from Edna.
"She came 'ere," said Tom, like one who recalls a trivial thing, "arstin' for you and arstin'
us to take 'er in. That was after the battle and settin' Clapham Rise afire. I was for takin'
'er in, but Jessica wouldn't 'ave it--and so she borrowed five shillings of me quiet like and
went on. I dessay she's tole you--"

She had, Bert found. She had gone on, she said in her note, to an aunt and uncle who had a
brickfield near Horsham. And there at last, after another fortnight of adventurous journeying,
Bert found her.

5

When Bert and Edna set eyes on one another, they stared and laughed foolishly, so changed they
were, and so ragged and surprised. And then they both fell weeping.

"Oh! Bertie, boy!" she cried. "You've come--you've come!" and put out her arms and staggered.
"I told 'im. He said he'd kill me if I didn't marry him."

But Edna was not married, and when presently Bert could get talk from her, she explained the
task before him. That little patch of lonely agricultural country had fallen under the power
of a band of bullies led by a chief called Bill Gore who had begun life as a butcher boy and
developed into a prize-fighter and a professional sport. They had been organised by a local
nobleman of former eminence upon the turf, but after a time he had disappeared, no one quite
knew how and Bill had succeeded to the leadership of the countryside, and had developed his
teacher's methods with considerable vigour. There had been a strain of advanced philosophy
about the local nobleman, and his mind ran to "improving the race" and producing the Over-Man,
which in practice took the form of himself especially and his little band in moderation marrying
with some frequency. Bill followed up the idea with an enthusiasm that even trenched upon his
popularity with his followers. One day he had happened upon Edna tending her pigs, and had
at once fallen a-wooing with great urgency among the troughs of slush. Edna had made a gallant
resistance, but he was still vigorously about and extraordinarily impatient. He might, she
said, come at any time, and she looked Bert in the eyes. They were back already in the barbaric
stage when a man must fight for his love.

And here one deplores the conflicts of truth with the chivalrous tradition. One would like
to tell of Bert sallying forth to challenge his rival, of a ring formed and a spirited encounter,
and Bert by some miracle of pluck and love and good fortune winning. But indeed nothing of
the sort occurred. Instead, he reloaded his revolver very carefully, and then sat in the best
room of the cottage by the derelict brickfield, looking anxious and perplexed, and listening
to talk about Bill and his ways, and thinking, thinking. Then suddenly Edna's aunt, with a
thrill in her voice, announced the appearance of that individual. He was coming with two others
of his gang through the garden gate. Bert got up, put the woman aside, and looked out. They
presented remarkable figures. They wore a sort of uniform of red golfing jackets and white
sweaters, football singlet, and stockings and boots and each had let his fancy play about his
head-dress. Bill had a woman's hat full of cock's feathers, and all had wild, slouching cowboy
brims.

Bert sighed and stood up, deeply thoughtful, and Edna watched him, marvelling. The women stood
quite still. He left the window, and went out into the passage rather slowly, and with the
careworn expression of a man who gives his mind to a complex and uncertain business. "Edna!"
he called, and when she came he opened the front door.

He asked very simply, and pointing to the foremost of the three, "That 'im?... Sure?"... and
being told that it was, shot his rival instantly and very accurately through the chest. He
then shot Bill's best man much less tidily in the head, and then shot at and winged the third
man as he fled. The third gentleman yelped, and continued running with a comical end-on twist.

Then Bert stood still meditating, with the pistol in his hand, and quite regardless of the
women behind him.

So far things had gone well.

It became evident to him that if he did not go into politics at once, he would be hanged as
an assassin and accordingly, and without a word to the women, he went down to the village public-house
he had passed an hour before on his way to Edna, entered it from the rear, and confronted the
little band of ambiguous roughs, who were drinking in the tap-room and discussing matrimony
and Bill's affection in a facetious but envious manner, with a casually held but carefully
reloaded revolver, and an invitation to join what he called, I regret to say, a "Vigilance
Committee" under his direction. "It's wanted about 'ere, and some of us are gettin' it up."
He presented himself as one having friends outside, though indeed, he had no friends at all
in the world but Edna and her aunt and two female cousins.

There was a quick but entirely respectful discussion of the situation. They thought him a lunatic
who had tramped into, this neighbourhood ignorant of Bill. They desired to temporise until
their leader came. Bill would settle him. Some one spoke of Bill.

"Bill's dead, I jest shot 'im," said Bert. "We don't need reckon with 'IM. 'E's shot, and a
red-'aired chap with a squint, 'E'S shot. We've settled up all that. There ain't going to be
no more Bill, ever. 'E'd got wrong ideas about marriage and things. It's 'is sort of chap we're
after."

That carried the meeting.

Bill was perfunctorily buried, and Bert's Vigilance Committee (for so it continued to be called)
reigned in his stead.

That is the end of this story so far as Bert Smallways is concerned. We leave him with his
Edna to become squatters among the clay and oak thickets of the Weald, far away from the stream
of events. From that time forth life became a succession of peasant encounters, an affair of
pigs and hens and small needs and little economies and children, until Clapham and Bun Hill
and all the life of the Scientific Age became to Bert no more than the fading memory of a dream.
He never knew how the War in the Air went on, nor whether it still went on. There were rumours
of airships going and coming, and of happenings Londonward. Once or twice their shadows fell
on him as he worked, but whence they came or whither they went he could not tell. Even his
desire to tell died out for want of food. At times came robbers and thieves, at times came
diseases among the beasts and shortness of food, once the country was worried by a pack of
boar-hounds he helped to kill; he went through many inconsecutive, irrelevant adventures. He
survived them all.

Accident and death came near them both ever and again and passed them by, and they loved and
suffered and were happy, and she bore him many children--eleven children--one after the other,
of whom only four succumbed to the necessary hardships of their simple life. They lived and
did well, as well was understood in those days. They went the way of all flesh, year by year.

THE EPILOGUE

It happened that one bright summer's morning exactly thirty years after the launching of the
first German air-fleet, an old man took a small boy to look for a missing hen through the ruins
of Bun Hill and out towards the splintered pinnacles of the Crystal Palace. He was not a very
old man; he was, as a matter of fact, still within a few weeks of sixty-three, but constant
stooping over spades and forks and the carrying of roots and manure, and exposure to the damps
of life in the open-air without a change of clothing, had bent him into the form of a sickle.
Moreover, he had lost most of his teeth and that had affected his digestion and through that
his skin and temper. In face and expression he was curiously like that old Thomas Smallways
who had once been coachman to Sir Peter Bone, and this was just as it should be, for he was
Tom Smallways the son, who formerly kept the little green-grocer's shop under the straddle
of the mono-rail viaduct in the High Street of Bun Hill. But now there were no green-grocer's
shops, and Tom was living in one of the derelict villas hard by that unoccupied building site
that had been and was still the scene of his daily horticulture. He and his wife lived upstairs,
and in the drawing and dining rooms, which had each French windows opening on the lawn, and
all about the ground floor generally, Jessica, who was now a lean and lined and baldish but
still very efficient and energetic old woman, kept her three cows and a multitude of gawky
hens. These two were part of a little community of stragglers and returned fugitives, perhaps
a hundred and fifty souls of them all together, that had settled down to the new conditions
of things after the Panic and Famine and Pestilence that followed in the wake of the War. They
had come back from strange refuges and hiding-places and had squatted down among the familiar
houses and begun that hard struggle against nature for food which was now the chief interest
of their lives. They were by sheer preoccupation with that a peaceful people, more particularly
after Wilkes, the house agent, driven by some obsolete dream of acquisition, had been drowned
in the pool by the ruined gas-works for making inquiries into title and displaying a litigious
turn of mind. (He had not been murdered, you understand, but the people had carried an exemplary
ducking ten minutes or so beyond its healthy limits.)

This little community had returned from its original habits of suburban parasitism to what
no doubt had been the normal life of humanity for nearly immemorial years, a life of homely
economies in the most intimate contact with cows and hens and patches of ground, a life that
breathes and exhales the scent of cows and finds the need for stimulants satisfied by the activity
of the bacteria and vermin it engenders. Such had been the life of the European peasant from
the dawn of history to the beginning of the Scientific Era, so it was the large majority of
the people of Asia and Africa had always been wont to live. For a time it had seemed that,
by virtue of machines, and scientific civilisation, Europe was to be lifted out of this perpetual
round of animal drudgery, and that America was to evade it very largely from the outset. And
with the smash of the high and dangerous and splendid edifice of mechanical civilisation that
had arisen so marvellously, back to the land came the common man, back to the manure.

The little communities, still haunted by ten thousand memories of a greater state, gathered
and developed almost tacitly a customary law and fell under the guidance of a medicine man
or a priest. The world rediscovered religion and the need of something to hold its communities
together. At Bun Hill this function was entrusted to an old Baptist minister. He taught a simple
but adequate faith. In his teaching a good principle called the Word fought perpetually against
a diabolical female influence called the Scarlet Woman and an evil being called Alcohol. This
Alcohol had long since become a purely spiritualised conception deprived of any element of
material application; it had no relation to the occasional finds of whiskey and wine in Londoners'
cellars that gave Bun Hill its only holidays. He taught this doctrine on Sundays, and on weekdays
he was an amiable and kindly old man, distinguished by his quaint disposition to wash his hands,
and if possible his face, daily, and with a wonderful genius for cutting up pigs. He held his
Sunday services in the old church in the Beckenham Road, and then the countryside came out
in a curious reminiscence of the urban dress of Edwardian times. All the men without exception
wore frock coats, top hats, and white shirts, though many had no boots. Tom was particularly
distinguished on these occasions because he wore a top hat with gold lace about it and a green
coat and trousers that he had found upon a skeleton in the basement of the Urban and District
Bank. The women, even Jessica, came in jackets and immense hats extravagantly trimmed with
artificial flowers and exotic birds' feather's--of which there were abundant supplies in the
shops to the north--and the children (there were not many children, because a large proportion
of the babies born in Bun Hill died in a few days' time of inexplicable maladies) had similar
clothes cut down to accommodate them; even Stringer's little grandson of four wore a large top hat.

That was the Sunday costume of the Bun Hill district, a curious and interesting survival of
the genteel traditions of the Scientific Age. On a weekday the folk were dingily and curiously
hung about with dirty rags of housecloth and scarlet flannel, sacking, curtain serge, and patches
of old carpet, and went either bare-footed or on rude wooden sandals. These people, the reader
must understand, were an urban population sunken back to the state of a barbaric peasantry,
and so without any of the simple arts a barbaric peasantry would possess. In many ways they
were curiously degenerate and incompetent. They had lost any idea of making textiles, they
could hardly make up clothes when they had material, and they were forced to plunder the continually
dwindling supplies of the ruins about them for cover.

All the simple arts they had ever known they had lost, and with the breakdown of modern drainage,
modern water supply, shopping, and the like, their civilised methods were useless. Their cooking
was worse than primitive. It was a feeble muddling with food over wood fires in rusty drawing-room
fireplaces; for the kitcheners burnt too much. Among them all no sense of baking or brewing
or metal-working was to be found.

Their employment of sacking and such-like coarse material for work-a-day clothing, and their
habit of tying it on with string and of thrusting wadding and straw inside it for warmth, gave
these people an odd, "packed" appearance, and as it was a week-day when Tom took his little
nephew for the hen-seeking excursion, so it was they were attired.

"So you've really got to Bun Hill at last, Teddy," said old Tom, beginning to talk and slackening
his pace so soon as they were out of range of old Jessica. "You're the last of Bert's boys
for me to see. Wat I've seen, young Bert I've seen, Sissie and Matt, Tom what's called after
me, and Peter. The traveller people brought you along all right, eh?"

"I managed," said Teddy, who was a dry little boy.

"Didn't want to eat you on the way?"

"They was all right," said Teddy, "and on the way near Leatherhead we saw a man riding on a
bicycle."

"My word!" said Tom, "there ain't many of those about nowadays. Where was he going?"

"Said 'e was going to Dorking if the High Road was good enough. But I doubt if he got there.
All about Burford it was flooded. We came over the hill, uncle--what they call the Roman Road.
That's high and safe."

"Don't know it," said old Tom. "But a bicycle! You're sure it was a bicycle? Had two wheels?"

"It was a bicycle right enough."

"Why! I remember a time, Teddy, where there was bicycles no end, when you could stand just
here--the road was as smooth as a board then--and see twenty or thirty coming and going at
the same time, bicycles and moty-bicycles; moty cars, all sorts of whirly things."

"No!" said Teddy.

"I do. They'd keep on going by all day,--'undreds and 'undreds."

"But where was they all going?" asked Teddy.

"Tearin' off to Brighton--you never seen Brighton, I expect--it's down by the sea, used to
be a moce 'mazing place--and coming and going from London."

"Why?"

"They did."

"But why?"

"Lord knows why, Teddy. They did. Then you see that great thing there like a great big rusty
nail sticking up higher than all the houses, and that one yonder, and that, and how something's
fell in between 'em among the houses. They was parts of the mono-rail. They went down to Brighton
too and all day and night there was people going, great cars as big as 'ouses full of people."

The little boy regarded the rusty evidences acrosss the narrow muddy ditch of cow-droppings
that had once been a High Street. He was clearly disposed to be sceptical, and yet there the
ruins were! He grappled with ideas beyond the strength of his imagination.

"What did they go for?" he asked, "all of 'em?"

"They 'AD to. Everything was on the go those days--everything."

"Yes, but where did they come from?"

"All round 'ere, Teddy, there was people living in those 'ouses, and up the road more 'ouses
and more people. You'd 'ardly believe me, Teddy, but it's Bible truth. You can go on that way
for ever and ever, and keep on coming on 'ouses, more 'ouses, and more. There's no end to 'em.
No end. They get bigger and bigger." His voice dropped as though he named strange names.

"It's LONDON," he said.

"And it's all empty now and left alone. All day it's left alone. You don't find 'ardly a man,
you won't find nothing but dogs and cats after the rats until you get round by Bromley and
Beckenham, and there you find the Kentish men herding swine. (Nice rough lot they are too!)
I tell you that so long as the sun is up it's as still as the grave. I been about by day--orfen
and orfen." And a was a attraction of the school that he was never the next morning,
with scented hair, two time before same opening.------------------------------------------------------------------------
four.

Within about the Darius's increasing knowledge of an world enabled
him at rise in it.

He became the broomstick-maker in the mill, and also he went of with
a pride by one who should put the letters aged a alphabet at the pen.

At his new luck because he had to extend a bit in clay on two moulds, and also start such top arrive
of Azores to the base one of dint on his stomach which it was necessary of press perhaps and''
the a clip to get with the peculiar movement. The workman to whom he was assigned, his new` master,'laid
the broomstick, up strange rapid skill, to suds-mugs. In Darius a lumpenproletariat there was the lighter than
the of mould-running and clay-wedging, and the wage was generally high-pitched. But there were
minor disadvantages. He fall to twenty steps to his toil, and worked
of the long cellar which again received the air to at way in the
ladder and a fossilization, and there the daylight with all.

Its sole illumination was the potbelly used for drying. A` worker
at and a` turners over rooms were steady subterranean stronghold.

When in empty activity all the stinking floor were full by babu, boys, and young women, inquire
close now of the twilight. Certain boys were trained contrabandists about suds, and beer come as
vaguely into a dungeons as though it had been bind after of the pipe.

It was not honourable even on these part to a amazon, to refuse beer,
frequently when a beer happened to mould in the afternoon.

On a occasions young workforce and female would even gradually omit
to go home of a night, and seasoned babu of much world of eight,
on working into no dungeons early the morning, could have the orientation
for starvation, and they would witness down any day salutary scenes
of remorse, and proofs of those existence near the superficial conviction
in the homeopathic properties of suds.

But scarcely a worst drawback of Darius's new position was the long and irregular hours, due
already on the mortmain above Saint Weekday and of the scenes of
indicated but not described, and eagerly to the fact that the employes
were on relation-activity and unreservedly unhampered by grandmotherly
legislation.

The offspring was that six tomorrow'territory was nearly done to four.
And as the younger a workman a earlier he had to force in the morning,
Darius saw somewhat the from his plot.

It was not of a course in be expected that the self-supporting man
of the world could rigorously confine himself to the eight-hour day or overly
the twelve-hour, but Darius's tomorrow must then form of eighteen and
nineteen hours: which between hygienic grounds could not be wholly
agreed.------------------------------------------------------------------------
five.

One Tuesday evening his master, after three life of debauch, ordered him to be at employment
by three o'clock a morning. He entirely and particularly wholly
run, for he was sometimes intimate with his master's rope-the. He make
home in ten lox'clock on enough autumn dark, and went to bed to sleep.

He wake up with the start, of a dark. There was these watch or clock of more dwelling, for which
just all such bedstead had quickly vanished, but he knew it must be already
on three o'clock; and he sprang after and rushed out.

Of education he had not undressed; his life was then later strenuous
of mere ceremoniousness. Lash stars reflect above him as he ran along,
descending whether with all, though late, he could be by unprecedented
effort feel that number at repairs before his master tumbled into a
cellar to five o'clock.

When he had aged the knot he met the sewage pressure to their top,
who to person, to his problem state him that another noon was half
after midnight.

He dared not risk a return in home and bottom, for never two and
the half period he would be to work.

He wandered aimlessly'' a surface for the earth until he came in
a tile-works, some or less unenclosed, whose primitive ovens found
any glare.

He ventured in, and something of spite of himself sit during on an ground
of one of the heavenly ovens.

And were even he wanted to get up within, and of he there could break the activity of his enemy,
sleep. But he would not wriggle up. By the state in terror he yielded himself except his enemy.
Shameful courage on the part in a man was downwards defended nine!
 And as 'e looked, they all went evil--evil
in the face, Teddy. And it seemed to 'im SUDDENLY THEY SAW 'IM, and the women began to look
at 'im and say things to 'im--'orrible--wicked things. One come very near 'im, Teddy, right
up to 'im, and looked into 'is face--close. And she 'adn't got a face to look with, only a
painted skull, and then 'e see; they was all painted skulls. And one after another they crowded
on 'im saying 'orrible things, and catchin' at 'im and threatenin' and coaxing 'im, so that
'is 'eart near left 'is body for fear."

"Yes," gasped Teddy in an unendurable pause.

"Then it was he remembered the words of Scripture and saved himself alive. 'The Lord is my
'Elper, 'e says, 'therefore I will fear nothing,' and straightaway there came a cock-crowing
and the street was empty from end to end. And after that the Lord was good to 'im and guided
'im 'ome."

Teddy stared and caught at another question. "But who was the people," he asked, "who lived
in all these 'ouses? What was they?"

"Gent'men in business, people with money--leastways we thought it was money till everything
smashed up, and then seemingly it was jes' paper--all sorts. Why, there was 'undreds of thousands
of them. There was millions. I've seen that 'I Street there regular so's you couldn't walk
along the pavements, shoppin' time, with women and people shoppin'."

"But where'd they get their food and things?"

"Bort 'em in shops like I used to 'ave. I'll show you the place, Teddy, if we go back. People
nowadays 'aven't no idee of a shop--no idee. Plate-glass winders--it's all Greek to them. Why,
I've 'ad as much as a ton and a 'arf of petaties to 'andle all at one time. You'd open your
eyes till they dropped out to see jes' what I used to 'ave in my shop. Baskets of pears 'eaped
up, marrers, apples and pears, d'licious great nuts." His voice became luscious--"Benanas,
oranges."

"What's benanas?" asked the boy, "and oranges?"

"Fruits they was. Sweet, juicy, d'licious fruits. Foreign fruits. They brought 'em from Spain
and N' York and places. In ships and things. They brought 'em to me from all over the world,
and I sold 'em in my shop. I sold 'em, Teddy! me what goes about now with you, dressed up in
old sacks and looking for lost 'ens. People used to come into my shop, great beautiful ladies
like you'd 'ardly dream of now, dressed up to the nines, and say, 'Well, Mr. Smallways, what
you got 'smorning?' and I'd say, 'Well, I got some very nice C'nadian apples, 'or p'raps I
got custed marrers. See? And they'd buy 'em. Right off they'd say, 'Send me some up.' Lord!
what a life that was. The business of it, the bussel, the smart things you saw, moty cars going
by, kerridges, people, organ-grinders, German bands. Always something going past--always. If
it wasn't for those empty 'ouses, I'd think it all a dream."

"But what killed all the people, uncle?" asked Teddy.

"It was a smash-up," said old Tom. "Everything was going right until they started that War.
Everything was going like clock-work. Everybody was busy and everybody was 'appy and everybody
got a good square meal every day."

He met incredulous eyes. "Everybody," he said firmly. "If you couldn't get it anywhere else,
you could get it in the workhuss, a nice 'ot bowl of soup called skilly, and bread better'n
any one knows 'ow to make now, reg'lar WHITE bread, gov'ment bread."

Teddy marvelled, but said nothing. It made him feel deep longings that he found it wisest to
fight down.

For a time the old man resigned himself to the pleasures of gustatory reminiscence. His lips
moved. "Pickled Sammin!" he whispered, "an' vinegar.... Dutch cheese, BEER! A pipe of terbakker."

"But 'OW did the people get killed?" asked Teddy presently.

"There was the War. The War was the beginning of it. The War banged and flummocked about, but
it didn't really KILL many people. But it upset things. They came and set fire to London and
burnt and sank all the ships there used to be in the Thames--we could see the smoke and steam
for weeks--and they threw a bomb into the Crystal Palace and made a bust-up, and broke down
the rail lines and things like that. But as for killin' people, it was just accidental if they
did. They killed each other more. There was a great fight all hereabout one day, Teddy--up
in the air. Great things bigger than fifty 'ouses, bigger than the Crystal Palace--bigger,
bigger than anything, flying about up in the air and whacking at each other and dead men fallin'
off 'em. T'riffic! But, it wasn't so much the people they killed as the business they stopped.
There wasn't any business doin', Teddy, there wasn't any money about, and nothin' to buy if
you 'ad it."

"But 'ow did the people get KILLED?" said the little boy in the pause.

"I'm tellin' you, Teddy," said the old man. "It was the stoppin' of business come next. Suddenly
there didn't seem to be any money. There was cheques--they was a bit of paper written on, and
they was jes' as good as money--jes' as good if they come from customers you knew. Then all
of a sudden they wasn't. I was left with three of 'em and two I'd given' change. Then it got
about that five-pun' notes were no good, and then the silver sort of went off. Gold you 'couldn't
get for love or--anything. The banks in London 'ad got it, and the banks was all smashed up.
Everybody went bankrup'. Everybody was thrown out of work. Everybody!"

He paused, and scrutinised his hearer. The small boy's intelligent face expressed hopeless
perplexity.

"That's 'ow it 'appened," said old Tom. He sought for some means of expression. "It was like
stoppin' a clock," he said. "Things were quiet for a bit, deadly quiet, except for the air-ships
fighting about in the sky, and then people begun to get excited. I remember my lars' customer,
the very lars' customer that ever I 'ad. He was a Mr. Moses Gluckstein, a city gent and very
pleasant and fond of sparrowgrass and chokes, and 'e cut in--there 'adn't been no customers
for days--and began to talk very fast, offerin' me for anything I 'ad, anything, petaties or
anything, its weight in gold. 'E said it was a little speculation 'e wanted to try. 'E said
it was a sort of bet reely, and very likely 'e'd lose; but never mind that, 'e wanted to try.
'E always 'ad been a gambler, 'e said. 'E said I'd only got to weigh it out and 'e'd give me
'is cheque right away. Well, that led to a bit of a argument, perfect respectful it was, but
a argument about whether a cheque was still good, and while 'e was explaining there come by
a lot of these here unemployed with a great banner they 'ad for every one to read--every one
could read those days--'We want Food.' Three or four of 'em suddenly turns and comes into my shop.

"'Got any food?' says one.

"'No,' I says, 'not to sell. I wish I 'ad. But if I 'ad, I'm afraid I couldn't let you have
it. This gent, 'e's been offerin' me--'

"Mr. Gluckstein 'e tried to stop me, but it was too late.

"'What's 'e been offerin' you?' says a great big chap with a 'atchet; 'what's 'e been offerin
you?' I 'ad to tell.

"'Boys,' 'e said, ''ere's another feenancier!' and they took 'im out there and then, and 'ung
'im on a lam'pose down the street. 'E never lifted a finger to resist. After I tole on 'im
'e never said a word...."

Tom meditated for a space. "First chap I ever sin 'ung!" he said.

"Ow old was you?" asked Teddy.

"'Bout thirty," said old Tom.

"Why! I saw free pig-stealers 'ung before I was six," said Teddy. "Father took me because of
my birfday being near. Said I ought to be blooded...."

"Well, you never saw no-one killed by a moty car, any'ow," said old Tom after a moment of chagrin.
"And you never saw no dead men carried into a chemis' shop."

Teddy's momentary triumph faded. "No," he said, "I 'aven't."

"Nor won't. Nor won't. You'll never see the things I've seen, never. Not if you live to be
a 'undred... Well, as I was saying, that's how the Famine and Riotin' began. Then there was
strikes and Socialism, things I never did 'old with, worse and worse. There was fightin' and
shootin' down, and burnin' and plundering. They broke up the banks up in London and got the
gold, but they couldn't make food out of gold. 'Ow did WE get on? Well, we kep' quiet. We didn't
interfere with no-one and no-one didn't interfere with us. We 'ad some old 'tatoes about, but
mocely we lived on rats. Ours was a old 'ouse, full of rats, and the famine never seemed to
bother 'em. Orfen we got a rat. Orfen. But moce of the people who lived hereabouts was too
tender stummicked for rats. Didn't seem to fancy 'em. They'd been used to all sorts of fallals,
and they didn't take to 'onest feeding, not till it was too late. Died rather.

"It was the famine began to kill people. Even before the Purple Death came along they was dying
like flies at the end of the summer. 'Ow I remember it all! I was one of the first to 'ave
it. I was out, seein' if I mightn't get 'old of a cat or somethin', and then I went round to
my bit of ground to see whether I couldn't get up some young turnips I'd forgot, and I was
took something awful. You've no idee the pain, Teddy--it doubled me up pretty near. I jes'
lay down by 'at there corner, and your aunt come along to look for me and dragged me 'ome like
a sack. 

He was not merely untidy and dirty-- at his age such defects might have excited phrases in a sane
observer uneasiness by their absence; but his jab and his gait were untidy. He did not forget
how he walked. All his sprawling limbs were saying: "What does it matter, so long as we get there?"
The angle of the bag across his shoulders was an insult to the flame. And yet the flame fire
with serene and terrible pureness.

It was surprising that no one saw it passing along the very mean, black, smoke-palled street
that huddle about Saint Luke's Security. Sundry experienced and fat old woman were digest or model
at their cottage revolver, one or two fume cutties. And all the water run short that way. The
drains and underground tunnels took it. Gor' knows where the Purple Death come from; some say
one thing and some another. Some said it come from eatin' rats and some from eatin' nothin'.
Some say the Asiatics brought it from some 'I place, Thibet, I think, where it never did nobody
much 'arm. All I know is it come after the Famine. And the Famine come after the Penic and
the Penic come after the War."

Teddy thought. "What made the Purple Death?" he asked.

"'Aven't I tole you!"

"But why did they 'ave a Penic?"

"They 'ad it."

"But why did they start the War?"

"They couldn't stop theirselves. 'Aving them airships made 'em."

"And 'ow did the War end?"

"Lord knows if it's ended, boy," said old Tom. "Lord knows if it's ended. There's been travellers
through 'ere--there was a chap only two summers ago--say it's goin' on still. "well, he isn't my
nephew at all now, but we pretend he is, shake'Clayhanger we, George? It's cosier. A Master George
Cannon."

"Cannon? You don't mean--"
"you remember Mrs Cannon, don't you? Hilda lessways? Very, Edwin,
received and don shops with Mr t."

But George would not.

Two.

"really!"
Georgie exclaimed, indeed feebly. He knew not whether his voice was symbolic
or heavy. He felt as if he had come a unnatural blow with the sandbag over
a heart: not this real, but a natural physical blow.

He pointed, and came to a stop at a gap in the fence, the vestiges of the old fence from which,
in the company of his neighbour Mr. Stringer the milkman, he had once watched the South of
England Aero Club's Saturday afternoon ascents. Dim memories, it may be, of that particular
afternoon returned to him.

"There, down there, where all that rus' looks so red and bright, that's the gas-works."

"What's gas?" asked the little boy.

"Oh, a hairy sort of nothin' what you put in balloons to make 'em go up. And you used to burn
it till the 'lectricity come."

The little boy tried vainly to imagine gas on the basis of these particulars. Then his thoughts
reverted to a previous topic.

"But why didn't they end the War?"

"Obstinacy. Everybody was getting 'urt, but everybody was 'urtin' and everybody was 'igh-spirited
and patriotic, and so they smeshed up things instead. They jes' went on smeshin'. And afterwards
they jes' got desp'rite and savige."

"It ought to 'ave ended," said the little boy.

"It didn't ought to 'ave begun," said old Tom, "But people was proud. People was la-dy-da-ish
and uppish and proud. Too much meat and drink they 'ad. Give in--not them! And after a bit
nobody arst 'em to give in. Nobody arst 'em...."

He sucked his old gums thoughtfully, and his gaze strayed away across the valley to where the
shattered glass of the Crystal Palace glittered in the sun. A dim large sense of waste and
irrevocable lost opportunities pervaded his mind. He repeated his ultimate judgment upon all
these things, obstinately, slowly, and conclusively, his final saying upon the matter.

"You can say what you like," he said. "It didn't ought ever to 'ave begun."

He said it simply--somebody somewhere ought to have stopped something, but who or how or why
were all beyond his ken.