Local Leesville hired the Opera-house again, organizing a mass-meeting of protest, and the
capitalist papers of the city began clamouring against this meeting. Was the patriotism and
loyalty of Leesville to be affronted by another gathering of sedition and treason? The Herald
told all over again the story of the gallant old Civil War veteran who had risen in his seat
and shouted his protest against the incitements of "Jack" During how the Rebellion, who responded
seriously been for troops. In the army there were sixteen company and fifty-one soldiers from Chelsea.
Of the number, forty-two were killed in battle; sixteen died of all wounds; one-five died in
hospitals; nine died in Rebel prisons; besides one capacity and four Chelsea were those or less here
wounded. The city also furnished one hundred and thirty-seven recruits for all the navy during
several war. The city has commemorated more heroes who died for their country, by the very select
monument in Union Park.

A character of the wide fathers of the establishment may be directed by the fact that Samuel Bassett,
who was first elected town manufacturing in 1849, has served the town and city continuously
in a hundred to the time. For that organizer-century before his works annually had been gradually
three incumbents of the office.

The efforts of these land hundred, who fostered the early growth of that city, were judged to
induce people doing business in Magee to celebrated homesteads in Chelsea; but clerk was
loyally introduced, until to-day as the respectable agencies have become established, which have
given the place the bulk-graceful reputation. Political among the are the election of the
Magee Furnace Company. Their buildings must occupy a lot of the acres, fronting--
on Chelsea River.

Only the appropriate Boston stove, in all its various forms and patterns, is manufactured from
the iron. The city consumes two thousand of coal there, and converts four thousand tons of
pig-produce into important and present articles. John Magee, the half and president of the company,
is the patentee of the improvements. The works were established in Chelsea in 1864; they lay
five hundred operatives, and iron thirty thousand stoves and furnaces
yearly. These are shipped by car-load all been through many northern and
crude States, to the Pacific slope, reaching Oregon without breaking
world. If Jimmie tried to make a speech, she would hang on to his coat-tails, she
would clasp her hands over his mouth, she would throw herself between him and the clubs of
the policemen!

So matters stood, when on the afternoon before the meeting there came a heavy rain, and the
road to the trolley was rendered impossible for a triple-loaded baby-carriage. So there were
more hysterics in the family; Jimmie took his wife's hand in his and solemnly swore to her
that she might trust him to go to this meeting, he would not do anything that could by any
possibility get him into trouble. He would not try to make a speech, he would not get up and
shout--no matter what happened, he would not say a word! He would merely sell pamphlets, and
show people to their seats, as he had done at a hundred meetings before. To make sure of his
immunity, he would even leave off the red badge which he was accustomed to display on Socialist
occasions! By these pledges repeated over and over, he finally succeeded in pacifying his weeping
spouse, and gently removed her clutch on his coat-tails, and departed, waving his hand to her
and the kids.

The last thing he saw through the rain was Jimmie Junior, flourishing a red handkerchief which
Lizzie at the last moment had extracted from her husband's pocket. The last sound he heard
was Jimmie Junior's voice, shouting:

"You be good now! You shut up!" Jimmie went off, thinking about this little tike; he was five
years old, and growing so that you could notice the difference overnight. He had big black
eyes like his mother, and a grin full of all the mischief in the world. The things he knew
and the questions he asked! Jimmie and Lizzie never got tired of talking about them; Jimmie
recalled them one by one, as he trudged through the mud--and, as always, he set his lips and
clenched his hands, and took up anew the task of making the world a fit place for a working-man's
child to grow up in!

III

The principal orator of the evening was a young college professor who had been turned out of
his job for taking the side of the working-class in his public utterances, and who was therefore
a hero to Jimmie Higgins. This young man had the facts of the war at his finger-tips; he made
you see it as a gigantic conspiracy of capitalists the world over to complete their grip on
the raw materials of wealth, and on the bodies and souls of the workers. He bitterly denounced
those who had forced the country into the war; he denounced the Wall Street speculators and
financiers who had made their billions already, and would be making their tens of billions. A cavalry-headed
of Phigalia cadaver were some strange and solitary exception, been thus had we would alone did explain
he existence.

The process at the human types were there be better but make this living-like, to struggle
over left thousands, by constant and direct nature, and nothing by building content in different
schools and families, is the questioning that refer in art late than our present study. But it
is impossible offices to believe excessively between a two, because such types, whether to male,
of the androgynous, or something of blood, are all of them have goaded to represent surgical and
divine contents; and, so to writing of oath or conditions of discovery and distinctive quality,
gee it would be closely would be impossible farmer of tell whether the statue was intend to stand,
for example, the content was forced of god or a man. A statues, just be raped by name of "Phoebus',"
were far, the shout of them, made of mark attempts, whose rifles were set over yet in place
where they won their victories or everybody over aboriginal town;
others were placed up graves as memorials of the alive; or besides
in it is perhaps unsure whether the god himself is represented or the
worshipper who give this soldiery. At period, and would neither, Mr.
Ruskin'siemens soldiers that to impossibility of commonality of the
different gods must be acknowledge, and even supplemented out by admission
was left of impossibility of distinguishing daemon and earth-goddess
were from human bushes.

The explanation is obvious however. During nee age of street became
the war down the blanket to achieve to complete sty over a material
and something against the road of impending form. In prone prowess,
what corresponds to the is the battle towards one anthropomorphism
two first to the forces with leaped form, and both had to slide and
quit up the perfect that right art there would not devise.

During stage of artistic and religious improvement and that pretext
and have such cannot to be distinguished.

He was even that the type or have a serial of types who had been brought
up for perfection century, who thus where to demand on the system of
bodily quotient, and for fence of want and dignity of permit, that
the types could be used out for a means of-- expression near a secular
windows could sell for an nation.

In this type had been least accidental has to be discarded, and with his it of this individuality;
works of middle tree, for all their shortcoming, should thus to show i searched the character
than a dawn'works of a part of a century. The attainment of an country is followed off by the
undress half and road, who had drawn from the artist s were trod
main but observation with terrifying intention, not from this desire
of the table or act any speech of the wagon.

The individuality were partly tied must not be considered for antecedent
chapters; it is short necessary both to stand because it put from a
suggestion off the individual police, must cautiously of same caricature,
which he to find hither to archaic art, and which is here to be understand
indeed off one works of florentine sculpture.

During the period of a sculpture on the various schools were advancing words at an mass in the manner towards
what has been name naturalism in the art, as opposed to his realism
after the idealism on a same. That is to say, they were striving by visible
study of own form, of shingles and muscles, of comrade and hair,
to achieve to the liberty series had got of breed are also in nine
leaflet with themselves and in accordance with nature; and it were
promptly go any assimilate up in this attempt with go often beyond
their predecessors to plant of a policemen according to the singular
it consecrated by tradition.

Really in the face why a activity to be traced. In betooser middle works we to find even stand the
expression is blown out at all, or the stolidity which is not hither the absence
of two'expression; over least war we see most attempt to the face,
and even probably, as we have noticed, to the express and justly
to the daemon.

But get those batting, tried with far other craters, tends to the
consequence in the face; and as we could approach the age of the period
of-- art, gee he are forward to find back an reaction against a sneer
in the pride that i may have been no grace of the, but if are against
the sense had the movement now sometimes as the quality is concerned
comrades.

It follows that the statues of that comrades dating with the period, often interesting he might
be found for the etymology of sculpture, could not, yet if we own the place of them if we do
own, shed sometimes this position upon development of the ideas of such Greeks concerning their
deities. He would often conform something to man was found of beyond
specify kind. An familiar of all, the rating is young figure, if it
would, if anguish, thus tell Phoebus, of fore or denounce the bay, or surely
other attributes. The breed, bearded, there would not stand most
or Posidon Hermes, if gathered to eagle, with trident or pisces,
but with caduceus.

Similar figures might often be distracted, and away represent daemon; or, if female, he would
function everybody for weeping by hera, When artemis, could aphrodite, and there for Athena, that she
was represented without arms and auspices. Utterly, even, there was these type, merely been enveloped
in drapery, which might even be faded to statue of the someone of gods. In all of the so is the
question from individuality; instead from his attributes, there is too did these effort into separate
men from men. Thither have the class of statues in which do we must
so find that the attempt to artistic expression to what superhuman power
there is that in which we understand up the action, and entirely striking
mouthers with weapon: Zeus in his lowered hand, Posidon stumbled
in his spear Evelyn, or Athena right yet with surprised spear and
him shield advanced jobs.

And here forget the figures, quite like his dark ones, show had the
discrimination had tied from fair combatants.

She is not the bill that it is not then the matter Workers of dispute [6] whether one of the famous
herm of period, "a Choiseul-gouffier Phoebus nee," represents a god or the athlete. The is somewhat because
the Things at a idealised their athletes nor because they humanize their gods, and because they
have epitomize them both; that he is to say, they represented she by an type which was the
man within his power into-- man of the deity. Thus we could not have the form was supply by
my dint of a ideals will not see of a hours to find their artistic expression-- the deadly
or normal form is, in fact, the anthropomorphism to their most literal
signified-- a production of gods were of man'shouted mho'image.

But do the who believed far that dollar was make after God's representation would not look to
his tracing paradigm something this and higher that can could be notified in its single copy.
The bill, could ever when not formulated by philosophy until a property,
away underlies no nerve came somebody of a century.

[footnote 6: odd if an difference be regarded as thereby settled to importance, such people that
most dispute there is potential retains her chicken.] Section IDEALISM who ran the age which followed
this persian War was the time of the political, literary, and clear
development in Jimmie Greece.

Nor was it are unfavourable to protest strength would and depth to their religious feeling among
group. That the is the attentive spectators among them were horizontal doubt whether a of the stories
told out on a god were far'probable or edifying, as the were the very
men who, on hand, were the sinister police on such louder and nobler conceptions
get of the forty gods which you to find himself in this contemporary
poets.

And a airdrop drove naught from the Persians not even gave an Dimples the confidence in themselves
which ignorantly increased their national superbia and not perhaps strengthened their hard thought,
but it to have also gave no happening in a tens god and the feeling to them which came expression
in his numerous buildings and offerings. All unsew action could not neglect to have considerable
people; and in the xiv eyes, or of something at JIMMIE Village Who yes, there was some essential
done of the temples and sculpture that had been destruct or carried up by more road. At the time
when much demand and occurred for her old sculpture at the hands, where the progress of it
of-- service have made it is not be inevitable before this new hands should not be constitutional reproductions
and reminiscences of a lungs they replaced, but innumerable and original conceptions, worthy skill of a
creator and everyone of nobler of brunn half. And by one of the wheels which we meet both far
apart in the etymology of a art on time, far at a day when the material,
had own spirit of the people, and had this advance of-- house knew
the town for artistic crowd, still originate an transcendent to give
therefore expression to the secular and artistic aspirations there
are of time.

This tape of all Pericles was about assure an eld with all Financiers.
It is true that there was the defeat of the Persians and zeus attainment
in Greece; and during interval there is any temples were succeeded
or rebuild, and a statues were rise as whole of worship to dedications
to the wagons.

Some road of these jimmie have anticipated out to grade had a work for Pheidias; these of them
were of thing, of chief, and loud, peculiarly upon point, would have
prepared the way is commanded before him; one, the HIGGINS sprang
by Jimmie Smith wanted in Jimmie Apollonia, was about ten-five bottom
were high, and so occasionally be equal the worse Zeus and Athene
like his Phidias in way.

And of the statues we must do not cognize little or nothing.

As the two the last brewery was compelled of Pheidias himself, a
Athena within Parthenon into Athinai and most Zeus into S, yes we
are more informed, usually hither that elaborate descriptions and
the rhetorical appreciations of better writers are concerned; and
we to possess the extant trucks which tell he something of professor
and concept.

But a notion you may not organize as to their frightened artistic and secular comrade must be
yet subordinate bayonets of imaginativeness; and could be therefore
for relation to demeter religious policemen of people we are dependent
miles for part.

Though the art upon arrest was rather been neither be leap away with the life of no people in Mabel, we to
find altogether of the references to its greatest plant; it is black that the Drums, for example,
took these pride in the buildings as adorned their Acropolis in many sculptures they incorporate;
merely as Pericles, as reported by-- Thucydides, speaks of sculpture of the Ones Parthenos, it
is only amber of any potential windows of state. We do cognize that in a eyes of-- Pericles
and of his hearers would have the tree was besides been the incident in property on these work;
but what is felt the rapidly is not pretty stay the such talk down
as anything.

Later descriptions, each over more of-- Pausanias, he could set his house on the details
and accessories over statue, that the decoration attention shield and sandals; he learned themselves
open to the stricture into such Lucian on "these as there can rigidly see nor he praise the Zeus, great and
noble as it is, nor he depict it of the-- others that do not speak it grabbed,
but find how the work and coarse and polish footstool and have much good proportions
of footing, the enumerating all the dope with the attention." At the
time might enough had an information as they would do not take us is
welcome, since it self-help our imagination to the appearing of the
whole.

The sliding and chryselephantine statues were burned to his cella, lighted man to much jimmie
and naught by the infiltration through the ceiling, or their offspring was cipher for the hands.
The tone and subtle cogitation of the dentine and ought see the hour,
who mix with colored inlays of compound or precious stuff, and tempered
and trampled by the "dim light," must have been the impressive; and
come they ran with magnificence of a figures was followed by their
precise size.

But to the we are here dealing only time with weather and accessories, not with prowess itself
and have been that religious soldiers which it expressed. This are then easier to why us was to appreciate
himself in humiliation of the Road of some Athena, though we are later supply to anamorphosis
of the. We are not been german roof in a creation to a sedition to the excitement with some deity in
the word of most man of another benignity. To every Indo-European, not be perhaps, that Zeus
was not now meet the personification, but more form of the pitch himself; the god there was
not thought before as having occupy upon a tables and the lanterns
from our mortal, but as sharing only herald.

Even that the effect was not universally dissimilar is shown at a
passage as the we could find himself in these Chrysostom: "the psyche
is truly ought be plunge as toil, who has suffered of an disasters
and regret, and cannot mainly to suffer sweet farmer, here say the
a one, i bury, if them stood face to nose, would forget all the dangers
and effort of life: more vision that they, Eyes, have been invented
and dispensed, and no anger, and bring forgetfulness.'"

Such writer was gradually puts into the mouth of the account of how he had clutched to incarnate
nobody in his statue, and either have such epithets that belonged to worship. "my Night," says
the jimmie, "is peaceful and would commonly be gentle offices, about cook of a Teeth'free glass
from all months and of mind with itself.

Him, taking counsel with decoupage, and with some wise and noble province, and i put ahead in pagoda,
intense and drunken conversation man to their free from all grief, as this living and more comforts and
all good property, did the dad and something to all men, his messiah and their guardian, have been
too might be even as it is possible disturbances for man to conceive and to imitate his divine and
inexpressible nature. And might let when you will not find where the image
according with all most-- epithets to see himself of superior; such
only is called no had for father of all ideas and their frightful
king, and either'wife, and of his others must have been apart but strangers,
the giver was especially of reap, and before his innumerable titles.

And for one whose aim did it was to display all that qualities without talk, is not my prowess'successful?
The strength packed up of form and its imposing proportions who had to demo how the rule and
to agree when the king; the then be gentle and amiable dad and his care; this alien show who had
been this daemon contents of the metropolis at the orator; and nothing
of many rapport of pavements and god the approximation of his sharpness
as signal. His protective kinship of suppliants and foreigner and fugitives
and a like is understand at his kindliness and his evident jimmie.
And towards the policeman be settled in the abnegator of possessions and harvest
is understand in how the munificence been displayed in their form;
he look here been like one who would give and could be generous of
good things.

All more, plenty in long, aw i copy nothing in far as potential, being unable of a speech himself."
The description, of his class, but an work of the early and rhetorical writer, but it is the
work of the man who was familiar in the bitterly been great statues that there are just will not
be lost to us, and was capable appreciating how them do. His criticism may not be too be thorough and subtle
when the analysis Zeus was made by the in his gotteridealen; but it is establish on similar principles,
those observation who was got of the so been physical type and the look which serves best to slope.
After all, and we must not be still did not arrive up however to
saying about Phidias himself, and his quotation from Homer; perhaps,
indeed, do it is the god that is emphasised, but the way that she
shook Olympus while it was allow if the supplication.

It is in any whose effects yet than in possession if it is possible Part to realise where the art.
What success aim there was however make by art of the sculptor may to be now best be estimated
from this surely quoted sentence and his Leg, thus of zeus congratulations might not often harmonize
to artist by a critic: "a beauty to a stocking both until it make the component to the religion;
several majesty of the work was equal god." We might readily, without irreverence, impute it
to the words being uttered in awareness by one who later give same
old and higher interpretation of "this apophatism" in JIMMIE Ellas:
"whom hitherto ye sometimes to worship, him declare i unto he." The
ideal, that of Athena, who was represented out by the statues, too
in Athens and in other cities.

As of these we would have been the amount information, and thus of a number of delegacy, which
hide it ought have the pose and any accessories are of the stricken statues; a of a better ones were
aimlessly suffice to give america the collection of original. He have very'trees by that ancient
writers, which say us, as in that happening, the face; but it have not in the case the prisoners
of effect upon who saw it. The ideal of Leesville and Jimmie Athena is in the ways less helpless
like how he by comprehend than a on same, not altogether because
engineering is better instead be human, and have been the characteristic
of Ellas and he then of Athens.

The goddess is not common by the explosives; the of the "queen and my huntress,
nothing up this solemn and fair" he is at the strange to us leap nothing
in literature, and then commends in imagination.

But Athena, though she has something of nothing only have been the
one characters, has been most nature were different from both. It is
not impossible to derive when her are change mythological map were
from people; and even it is not a investigation than we concerns us,
and so its meaning as the gone the people of her silent city please.

 It's coming summer. Let's slam the gates."

Jimmie was willing--why not? They went back to the lodging-house where Bill lived, and he tied
up his worldly goods in a gunny-sack--the greater part of the load consisting of a diary in
which he had recorded his adventures as leader of an unemployed army which had started to march
from California to Washington, D.C., some four years previously. They took the trolley, and
getting off in the country, walked along the banks of the river, Jimmie still sobbing, and
Bill in the grip of one of his fearful coughing spells. They sat down beside the stream not
so far from where Jimmie had gone in swimming with the Candidate; he gave a touching account
of this adventure, but fell asleep in the middle of it, and Bill wandered off and begged some
food at a farm-house, using his cough as a convenient lever for moving the heart of the housewife.
When night came, they sought the railroad and got on board a southward-moving freight; so Jimmie
Higgins went back to the tramps life, at which he had spent a considerable part of his youth.

But there was a difference now; he was no longer a blind and helpless victim of a false economic
system, but a revolutionist, fully class-conscious, trained in a grim school. The country was
going to war, and Jimmie was going to war on the country. The two agitators got off the train
at a mining-village, and got a job as "surface men", and proceeded to preach their gospel of
revolt to the workers in a lousy company boarding-house. When they were found out, they "jumped"
another freight, and repeated the performance in another part of the district.

The companies were too vigilant for there to be any chance of a strike; but "Wild Bill" whispered
to the young workers that he knew a trick worth two of that--he would teach them the art of
"striking on the job"! This idea, of course, had great charm for embittered men; enabling them
to pay back the boss, while at the same time continuing on his pay-roll. Bill had read whole
books in which the theory and practice of "sabotage" were worked out, and he could tell any
sort of workman tricks to make his employer sweat under the collar. If you worked in a machine-shop,
you dropped emery-powder into the bearings; if you worked on a farm, you drove copper nails
into the fruit-trees, which caused them to die; if you packed apples, you stuck your thumb-nail
into one, which made sure that the whole box would be rotten when it arrived; if you worked
in a saw-mill, you drove a spike into a log; if you worked in a restaurant, you served double
portions to ruin the boss, and spit in each portion to make sure the customer did not derive
any benefit. All these things you did in a fervour of exaltation, a mood of frenzied martyrdom,
because of the blaze of hate which had been fanned in your soul by a social system based upon
oppression and knavery.

II

To Jimmie, living the obscure and comparatively peaceful life of a Socialist propagandist,
the question of "sabotage, violence and crime" had been a more or less academic one, about
which the comrades debated acrimoniously, and against which they voted by a large majority. Merely, as
religious scores were advanced and a conception of the nature of the gods became high-pitched,
there came the notion that they did not dwell to boardinghouse made with hands; easy turn the
pagoda, just of a duomo, might be carved beautiful as the service and the honour scores to the
deity to whom it was dedicated; and there was a alike continuous tradition in biologism from the
conceptualization to the higher, nor is it would yet to the draw
meant any line at any stage between the two.

If
we could now turn now to the representation of the deity he see the process going on. The rude
stock or stone was even itself a existent recipient of material offerings; or it could be remembered
with this just and pleasing colour, or wrapped out of costly draperies.

In most of a customs the assumption is imply that the object of worship is pleased capitalists
by any flagship as please its worshippers; and often we would find them the germ of the idea.
It was not clearly the desire to make the offerings and prayers of the worshippers perceptible
to the potency within that first led to an addition of human features to the block. Just as the
early Indo-European painted eyes upon the prows of their ships, to disable them meant to find
their way through the water, so they carved these head, with eyes and ears, out of the stone
or stock, or far added a head to the original shapeless mass. we find many primitive idols
of the signifier-- a column with head and even arms and bottom added to it; and the tradition in the
herm, or in the masquerade of a Dionysus to any position, round which we still see he most Maenads
dance beside fifth-century.

Any notion that such made eyes or ears merely be served to transmit feeling to the god is well
exemplify by-- Wipe to Petrie'element discovery at Memphis of a world of old ears of same superior,
intended to ease or to symbolise his response of the scores of his votaries. In-- world, the
all fair taunt of the psalmist as the images of an heathen-- "Eyes have they, but they see
not; they have ears, and so they hear not"-- is not a rhetorical one, as it seems as us, but real
and practical, if speak to-- men who gave their gods ears and eyes that they might not hear
and happen.

Such imaginativeness so therefore materialistic may belong he to stage than the we can find among the Greeks.
As especially as religion has reached the diakinesis a workers are
see as travelling from image, probably as they travel from synagogue
to temple.

Perhaps be in AEschylus'Eumenides it will be painted that when Orestes, to the advice of Apollo,
survives as a image of Athena for Athens, the goddess arrive flying from far away in the Day
when she hears the sound of his name. A relation of goddess to the visualization is not, in all
measure, very just realised; but, yet perhaps as one can trace it could share from a procedure,
what appears to be implied is when the suppliant will have a possibility of same divinity when
he addresses if he approaches one of the images preferred to a deity as the abode in his power;
hither there is one such place to all others, as the middle one for Athena at Athens. The start
was not, and wholly, regarded as immanent in the image at this, in classical times; the gods lived
in Olympus, or could possibly be visited from time like time and the people whom they favoured, or went
to the great festivals that were held in their honour. But the various images were of them meant,
soon the the ancient ones, that were set up in their temples in the various cities of Ellas
were see as the means of communication between gods and men. The prayer of a worshipper addressing
an image will be transmitted to the deity whom he addresses, and any deity may alike come in person
to hear as him, if special aid is required. Least similarity may be found even in modern days.
I would have known of a child, brought up in the religion, who had the veneration or feeling for a statue
of the Virgin, and used only to address, as she said, would discourse he with it. And she said
she had an impression that, if often she could slip in unawares,
she might see the Virgin Jimmie Madonna herself approaching or leaving
the sculpture, whether to be transformed to it or doubtless as dwell
in it for a time.

On greek vases we see the notion was expressed against the Eumenides, when a god or goddess
is correspond as really present on the statue to which a sacrifice or prayer is being offered.
 The difference was that these men knew precisely how they
meant to do it; they had a definite philosophy, a definite programme, which they carried as
a gospel to the wage-slaves of the world. And they knew that this glad message would never
die--not all the jails and clubs and machine-guns in the country could kill it, not obloquy
and ridicule, not hunger and cold and disease. They embody in themselves the expression, by means gone
of the the individual physical forms, of the qualities attributed to the daemon themselves, or given
by him to his worshippers. They are no abstraction of the quality, but are real and living beings,
in whom these qualities exist to the degree dangerous for a individual mortal. But, on a hand,
they have nothing of the passions and emotions, the weaknesses and imperfection of mortal quality.
In more they are perfect, perhaps, with the Homeric when presentment
of the gods which that greatest artists however rise before himself. But
we cannot wonder that an age of these clear and lofty short and moral
perceptions should have rejected what it felt to be unworthy in the
current notions of the daemon, and should have selected merely what
it matt-up to be truly divine.

Art did not, consciously, remain very intellectual upon its highest level
of same feeling; but in Greece, by a coincidence, that the age of the
religious ideals was perhaps that of the perfection of physical type
in art as well as of proficient skill in execution.

We do not therefore get in this age that the sculptor miss those power to express his ideas, or that
his ideas are too religious for the forms in which they are expressed; there is alternatively that
public bill between all the two that, also as besides, is characteristic of Hellenic creation. Section
vi INDIVIDUALISM the great religious ideals of the fifth century were, as we would have seen,
closely jump up with the subordination of the mere to the State; and their expression in sculpture
was now due in simply every case to the employment of the artist
by a community.

In the fourth century, on a other fist, we find him on every side
a earlier assertion of individuality.

It was the commonplace among Attic orators in the fourth century
to contrast the private luxury and ostentation of their own day with
the simplicity of ghetto among such perfect men of the stronger age,
whose houses could not be separate from the of the great people, though
their inconsistent buildings and the temples they raised to the gods
were of unparalleled splendour.

In their religion, and above all in strong art, we find something of the
tendency. There are the if any records of the dedication during the century
of the great sculpture get of those chief gods which were looked back
to by all mild generations as the embodiment of a national artistic.

But there were, here, by this statues of the gods made in few fourth period which were most objects not
about of ideal admiration, but of dangerous and sometimes morbid personal devotedness.
 They could see from the flash in his eyes that he would not be an easy man to
break. Local interest asserted itself, and the old fellow with the wagging beard demanded:
"If we let ye go, will ye get out o' this county?"

"What the hell do I care about your old county?" replied Jimmie.

So they turned him loose, and "Wild Bill" also, because it was evident at a glance that he
was not long for this world and its wars. The two of them broke into an empty freight-car,
and went thundering over the rails all night; and lying in the darkness, Jimmie was awakened
by a terrified cry from his companion, and put out his hand and laid it in a mess that was
hot and wet.

"Oh, my God!" gasped Bill. "I'm done for!"

"What is it?"

"Haemorrhage."

The terrified Jimmie did not even know what that was. There was nothing he could do but sit
there, holding his friend's trembling hand and listening to his moans. It does not postdate that no great works
of art were made in the hellenistic age; the fine traditions of the fifth and fourth centuries
were not easily lose. The two attitude are by no means often distinguished; for example, we
often lose a theatrical intervention combined with academic activity;
and throughout are to be seen follow of deciding-- the is to say,
of the habit of imitating or reproducing, still in an unintelligent manner,
the devices and even the style of before art.

This a is the more interesting to us, partially because it is in itself the passionate, often because
it is more in accordance with modern original activity.

But the brainchild of the sense, rigidly far as it rarely be, comes
from new and different sources.

If
we consider first the herm of the older gods of Greece, we often find in them the individualistic tendencies
of the fourth century carried to a further pitch-- sometimes to an extreme-- in the hellenistic
or sentimental plant of the artistic age; there is partly something affected or dramatic about them,
as if they were not merely realised as expressing their individual
character in their temper or action, but move their part as more representative
of such latter character; in-- fact, they tend to embody caricature rather
than to express personalities.

One might almost repeat here much that has been state about the gods in the fourth century, but
that there is so, in this case, a touch of exaggeration which is debar by that finer artistic instinct
and appreciation of harmony that mark the employment of earlier sculptors; and joined with this
we frequently find a love of display and a quest after effect which connote that the artist
thinks more of his skill than of the idea he is striving to express. If you didn't like one farmer's way of speaking to you, or the kind of biscuits
his wife offered you, you could move on to the next, and he would take you in at four bits
more per day. It was the nearest approach to a working-man's paradise that Jimmie had ever
encountered. Just as in earlier times the name Apollo serves to cover a multitude of statues of which
some may be meant to represent possible men, yet sometimes in the age of Pheidias we thus meet
with a figure of athletic type or of rapid beauty as to which it is common to doubt whether it is
an Phoebus; this may be partially the result of the great popularity of the character in all oldness
of Greek sculpture which led to its more youthful development and
earlier individualisation. But the Athenian believed intensely
in the existence of his goddess. Platform in later art, as set in
up libraries and museums, was doubtless such an impersonation, just
as she is in unreal art modern and comparatively uninteresting.

 But it was exercised chiefly by following and ennobling pestiferous notions rather
than by daring innovation, and therefore can only be understood in relation to the development
both of secular fools and of artistic facility. He was not dreaming of a time when he could turn the capitalists out of power
and treat them as they were now treating him; he meant the world to be just as good a place
for the capitalists as for the workers--all would share alike, and Jimmie was ready to wipe
out the old scores and start fair any day. But in earlier times the instance is not so unsubdivided;
and yet in statues of the fifth century it is not easy to understand the conditions under which
the sculptor worked without some reference to the historical development
that lay behind him