It was a circular mountain 4,500 metres high, one of those amphitheatres so numerous upon the
satellite. Barbicane informed his friends of Kepler's singular opinion upon the formation of
these circles. According to the celebrated mathematician, these crateriform cavities had been
dug out by the hand of man.

"What for?" asked Nicholl.

"In order to preserve themselves from the ardour of the solar rays, which strike the moon during
fifteen consecutive days."

"The Selenites were not fools!" said Michel.

"It was a singular idea!" answered Nicholl. "But it is probable that Kepler did not know the
real dimensions of these circles, for digging them would have been giants' labour, impracticable
for Selenites."

"Why so, if the weight on the surface of the moon is six times less than upon the surface of
the earth?" said Michel.

"But if the Selenites are six times smaller?" replied Nicholl.

"And if there are no Selenites?" added Barbicane, which terminated the discussion.

Eratosthenes soon disappeared from the horizon without the projectile having been sufficiently
near it to allow a rigorous observation. This mountain separated the Apennines from the Carpathians.

In lunar orography, several chains of mountains have been distinguished which are principally
distributed over the northern hemisphere. Some, however, occupy certain portions of the southern
hemisphere.

The following is a list of these different chains, with their latitudes and the height of their
highest summits:--

                        deg.   deg.       metres.
    Mounts Doerfel       84 to  0 S. lat.  7,603
      "    Leibnitz      65 "   0   "      7,600
      "    Rook          20 "  30   "      1,600
      "    Altai         17 "  28   "      4,047
      "    Cordilleras   10 "  20   "      3,898
      "    Pyrenees       8 "  18   "      3,631
      "    Oural          5 "  13   "        838
      "    Alembert       4 "  10   "      5,847
      "    Hoemus         8 "  21 N. lat.  2,021
      "    Carpathians   15 "  19   "      1,939
      "    Apennines     14 "  27   "      5,501
      "    Taurus        21 "  28   "      2,746
      "    Riphees       25 "  33   "      4,171
      "    Hercynians    17 "  29   "      1,170
      "    Caucasia      32 "  41   "      5,567
      "    Alps          42 "  49   "      3,617

The most important of these different chains is that of the Apennines, the development of which
extends 150 leagues, and is yet inferior to that of the great orographical movements of the
earth. The Apennines run along the eastern border of the Sea of Rains, and are continued on
the north by the Carpathians, the profile of which measures about 100 leagues.

The travellers could only catch a glimpse of the summit of these Apennines which lie between
west long. 10° and east long. 16°; but the chain of the Carpathians was visible from 18° to
30° east long., and they could see how they were distributed.

One hypothesis seemed to them very justifiable. Seeing that this chain of the Carpathians was
here and there circular in form and with high peaks, they concluded that it anciently formed
important amphitheatres. These mountainous circles must have been broken up by the vast cataclysm
to which the Sea of Rains was due. These Carpathians looked then what the amphitheatres of
Purbach, Arzachel, and Ptolemy would if some cataclysm were to throw down their left ramparts
and transform them into continuous chains. They present an average height of 3,200 metres,
a height comparable to certain of the Pyrenees. Their southern slopes fall straight into the
immense Sea of Rains.

About 2 a.m. Barbicane was at the altitude of the 20th lunar parallel, not far from that little
mountain, 1,559 metres high, which bears the name of Pythias. The distance from the projectile
to the moon was only 1,200 kilometres, brought by means of telescopes to two and a half leagues.

The "Mare Imbrium" lay before the eyes of the travellers like an immense depression of which
the details were not very distinct. Near them on the left rose Mount Lambert, the altitude
of which is estimated at 1,813 metres, and farther on, upon the borders of the Ocean of Tempests,
in north lat. 23° and east long. 29°, rose the shining mountain of Euler. This mountain, which
rises only 1,815 metres above the lunar surface, has been the object of an interesting work
by the astronomer Schroeter. This savant, trying to find out the origin of the lunar mountains,
asked himself whether the volume of the crater always looked equal to the volume of the ramparts
that formed it. Now this he found to be generally the case, and he hence concluded that a single
eruption of volcanic matter had sufficed to form these ramparts, for successive eruptions would
have destroyed the connection. Mount Euler alone was an exception to this general law, and
it must have taken several successive eruptions to form it, for the volume of its cavity is
double that of its inclosure.

All these hypotheses were allowable to terrestrial observers whose instruments were incomplete;
but Barbicane was no longer contented to accept them, and seeing that his projectile drew regularly
nearer the lunar disc he did not despair of ultimately reaching it, or at least of finding
out the secrets of its formation.

CHAPTER XIII.

LUNAR LANDSCAPES.

At half-past two in the morning the bullet was over the 30th lunar parallel at an effective
distance of 1,000 kilometres, reduced by the optical instruments to ten. It still seemed impossible
that it could reach any point on the disc. Its movement of translation, relatively slow, was
inexplicable to President Barbicane. At that distance from the moon it ought to have been fast
in order to maintain it against the power of attraction. The reason of that phenomenon was
also inexplicable; besides, time was wanting to seek for the cause. The reliefs on the lunar
surface flew beneath their eyes, and they did not want to lose a single detail.

The disc appeared through the telescopes at a distance of two and a half leagues. If an aëronaut
were taken up that distance from the earth, what would he distinguish upon its surface? No
one can tell, as the highest ascensions have not exceeded 8,000 metres.

The following, however, is an exact description of what Barbicane and his companions saw from
that height:--

Large patches of different colours appeared on the disc. Selenographers do not agree about
their nature. They are quite distinct from each other. Julius Schmidt is of opinion that if
the terrestrial oceans were dried up, a Selenite observer could only tell the difference between
the terrestrial oceans and continental plains by patches of colour as distinctly varied as
those which a terrestrial observer sees upon the moon. According to him, the colour common
to the vast plains, known under the name of "seas," is dark grey, intermingled with green and
brown. Some of the large craters are coloured in the same way.

Barbicane knew this opinion of the German selenographer; it is shared by Messrs. Boeer and
Moedler. He noticed that they were right, whilst certain astronomers, who only allow grey colouring
on the surface of the moon, are wrong. In certain places the green colour was very vivid; according
to Julius Schmidt, it is so in the Seas of Serenity and Humours. Barbicane likewise remarked
the wide craters with no interior cones, which are of a bluish colour, analogous to that of
fresh-polished sheets of steel. These colours really belonged to the lunar disc, and did not
result, as certain astronomers think, either from some imperfection in the object-glasses of
the telescopes or the interposition of the terrestrial atmosphere. Barbicane had no longer
any doubt about it. He was looking at it through the void, and could not commit any optical
error. He considered that the existence of this different colouring was proved to science.
Now were the green shades owing to tropical vegetation, kept up by a low and dense atmosphere?
He could not yet be certain.

Farther on he noticed a reddish tinge, quite sufficiently distinct. A similar colour had already
been observed upon the bottom of an isolated inclosure, known under the name of the Lichtenberg
Amphitheatre, which is situated near the Hercynian Mountains, on the border of the moon. But
he could not make out its nature.

He was not more fortunate about another peculiarity of the disc, for he could not find out
its cause. The peculiarity was the following one:--

Michel Ardan was watching near the president when he remarked some long white lines brilliantly
lighted up by the direct rays of the sun. It was a succession of luminous furrows, very different
from the radiation that Copernicus had presented. They ran in parallel lines.

Michel, with his usual readiness, exclaimed--

"Why, there are cultivated fields!"

"Cultivated fields!" repeated Nicholl, shrugging his shoulders.

"Ploughed fields, at all events," replied Michel Ardan. "But what ploughmen these Selenites
must be, and what gigantic oxen they must harness to their ploughs, to make such furrows!"

"They are not furrows, they are crevices!"

"Crevices let them be," answered Michel with docility. "Only what do you mean by crevices in
the world of science?" Barbicane soon told his companions all he knew about lunar crevices.
He knew that they were furrows observed upon all the non-mountainous parts of the lunar disc;
that these furrows, generally isolated, were from four to five leagues only; that their width
varies from 1,000 to 1,500 metres, and their edges are rigorously parallel. But he knew nothing
more about their formation or their nature.

Barbicane watched these furrows through his telescope very attentively. He noticed that their
banks were exceedingly steep. They were long parallel ramparts; with a little imagination they
might be taken for long lines of fortifications raised by Selenite engineers.

Some of these furrows were as straight as if they had been cut by line, others were slightly
curved through with edges still parallel. Some crossed each other. Some crossed craters. Some
furrowed the circular cavities, such as Posidonius or Petavius. Some crossed the seas, notably
the Sea of Serenity.

These accidents of Nature had naturally exercised the imagination of terrestrial astronomers.
The earliest observations did not discover these furrows. Neither Hevelius, Cassini, La Hire,
nor Herschel seems to have known them. It was Schroeter who in 1789 first attracted the attention
of savants to them. Others followed who studied them, such as Pastorff, Gruithuysen, Boeer,
and Moedler. At present there are seventy-six; but though they have been counted, their nature
has not yet been determined. They are not fortifications certainly, anymore than they are beds
of dried-up rivers, for water so light on the surface of the moon could not have dug such ditches,
and there furrows often cross craters at a great elevation.

It must, however, be acknowledged that Michel Ardan had an idea, and that, without knowing
it, he shared it with Julius Schmidt.

"Why," said he, "may not these inexplicable appearances be simply phenomena of vegetation?"

"In what way do you mean?" asked Barbicane.

"Now do not be angry, worthy president," answered Michel, "but may not these black lines be
regular rows of trees?"

"Do you want to find some vegetation?" said Barbicane.

"I want to explain what you scientific men do not explain! My hypothesis will at least explain
why these furrows disappear, or seem to disappear, at regular epochs."

"Why should they?"

"Because trees might become invisible when they lose their leaves, and visible when they grow
again."

"Your explanation is ingenious, old fellow," answered Barbicane, "but it cannot be admitted."

"Why?"

"Because it cannot be said to be any season on the surface of the moon, and, consequently,
the phenomena of vegetation on the surface of the moon cannot be produced."

In fact, the slight obliquity of the lunar axis keeps the sun there at an almost equal altitude
under every latitude. Above the equatorial regions the radiant orb almost invariably occupies
the zenith, and hardly passes the limit of the horizon in the polar regions. Therefore, in
each region, according to its position, there reigns perpetual spring, summer, autumn, or winter,
as in the planet Jupiter, whose axis is also slightly inclined upon its orbit.

The origin of these furrows is a difficult question to solve. They are certainly posterior
to the formation of the craters and amphitheatres, for several have crossed them, and broken
their circular ramparts. It may be that they are contemporary with the latest geographical
epochs, and are only owing to the expansion of natural forces.

In the meantime the projectile had reached the altitude of the 40th degree of lunar latitude
at a distance that could not be greater than 800 kilometres. Objects appeared through the telescopes
at two leagues only. At this point rose under their feet the Helicon, 505 metres high, and
on the left were the mediocre heights, which inclose a small portion of the Sea of Rains under
the name of the Gulf of Iris.

The terrestrial atmosphere ought to be 170 times more transparent than it is in order to allow
astronomers to make complete observations on the surface of the moon. But in the void the projectile
was moving in no fluid lay between the eye of the observer and the object observed. What is
more, Barbicane was at a less distance than the most powerful telescopes, even that of Lord
Rosse or the one on the Rocky Mountains, could give. It was, therefore, in circumstances highly
favourable for solving the great question of the habitability of the moon. Yet the solution
of this question escaped him still. He could only distinguish the deserted beds of the immense
plains, and, towards the north, arid mountains. No labour betrayed the hand of man. No ruin
indicated his passage. No agglomeration of animals indicated that life was developed there,
even in an inferior degree. There was no movement anywhere, no appearance of vegetation anywhere.
Of the three kingdoms represented on the terrestrial globe, one only was represented on that
of the moon--viz., the mineral kingdom.

"So," said Michel Ardan, looking rather put out, "there is nobody after all."

"No," answered Nicholl; "we have seen neither man, animal, nor tree as yet. After all, if the
atmosphere has taken refuge at the bottom of cavities, in the interior of the amphitheatres,
or even on the opposite face of the moon, we cannot decide the question."

"Besides," added Barbicane, "even for the most piercing sight a man is not visible at a distance
of more than four miles. Therefore if there are any Selenites they can see our projectile,
but we cannot see them."

About 11 a.m., at the altitude of the 50th parallel, the distance was reduced to 300 miles.
On the left rose the capricious outlines of a chain of mountains, outlined in full light. Towards
the right, on the contrary, was a large black hole like a vast dark and bottomless well bored
in the lunar soil.

That hole was the Black Lake, or Pluto, a deep circle from which the earth could be conveniently
studied between the last quarter and the new moon, when the shadows are thrown from west to east.

This black colour is rarely met with on the surface of the satellite. It has, as yet, only
been seen in the depths of the circle of Endymion, to the east of the Cold Sea, in the northern
hemisphere, and at the bottom of the circle of Grimaldi upon the equator towards the eastern
border of the orb.

Pluto is a circular mountain, situated in north lat. 51° and east long. 9°. Its circle is fifty
miles long and thirty wide. Barbicane regretted not passing perpendicularly over this vast
opening. There was an abyss to see, perhaps some mysterious phenomenon to become acquainted
with. But the course of the projectile could not be guided. There was nothing to do but submit.
A balloon could not be guided, much less a projectile when you are inside.

About 5 a.m. the northern limit of the Sea of Rains was at last passed. Mounts La Condamine
and Fontenelle remained, the one on the left, the other on the right. That part of the disc,
starting from the 60th degree, became absolutely mountainous. The telescopes brought it to
within one league, an inferior distance to that between the summit of Mont Blanc and the sea
level. All this region was bristling with peaks and amphitheatres. Mount Philolaus rose about
the 70th degree to a height of 3,700 metres, opening an elliptical crater sixteen leagues long
and four wide.

Then the disc, seen from that distance, presented an exceedingly strange aspect. The landscapes
were very different to earthly ones, and also very inferior.

The moon having no atmosphere, this absence of vaporous covering had consequences already pointed
out. There is no twilight on its surface, night following day and day following night, with
the suddenness of a lamp extinguished or lighted in profound darkness. There is no transition
from cold to heat: the temperature falls in one instant from boiling water heat to the cold
of space.

Another consequence of this absence of air is the following:--Absolute darkness reigns where
the sun's rays do not penetrate. What is called diffused light upon the earth, the luminous
matter that the air holds in suspension, which creates twilights and dawns, which produces
shadows, penumbrae, and all the magic of the chiaro-oscuro, does not exist upon the moon. Hence
the harshness of contrasts that only admit two colours, black and white. If a Selenite shades
his eyes from the solar rays the sky appears absolutely dark, and the stars shine as in the
darkest nights.

The impression produced on Barbicane and his two friends by this strange state of things may
well be imagined. They did not know how to use their eyes. They could no longer seize the respective
distances in perspective. A lunar landscape, which does not soften the phenomenon of the chiaro-oscuro,
could not be painted by a landscape-painter of the earth. It would be nothing but blots of
ink upon white paper.

This aspect of things did not alter even when the projectile, then at the altitude of the 80th
degree, was only separated from the moon by a distance of fifty miles, not even when, at 5
a.m., it passed at less than twenty-five miles from the mountain of Gioja, a distance which
the telescopes reduced to half-a-mile. It seemed as if they could have touched the moon. It
appeared impossible that before long the projectile should not knock against it, if only at
the North Pole, where the brilliant mountains were clearly outlined against the dark background
of the sky. Michel Ardan wanted to open one of the port-lights and jump upon the lunar surface.
What was a fall of twelve leagues? He thought nothing of that. It would, however, have been
a useless attempt, for if the projectile was not going to reach any point on the satellite,
Michel would have been hurled along by its movement, and not have reached it either.

At that moment, 6 a.m., the lunar pole appeared. Only half the disc, brilliantly lighted, appeared
to the travellers, whilst the other half disappeared in the darkness. The projectile suddenly
passed the line of demarcation between intense light and absolute darkness, and was suddenly
plunged into the profoundest night.

CHAPTER XIV.

A NIGHT OF THREE HUNDRED AND FIFTY-FOUR HOURS AND A HALF.

At the moment this phenomenon took place the projectile was grazing the moon's North Pole,
at less that twenty-five miles' distance. A few seconds had, therefore, sufficed to plunge
it into the absolute darkness of space. The transition had taken place so rapidly, without
gradations of light or attenuation of the luminous undulations, that the orb seemed to have
been blown out by a powerful gust.

"The moon has melted, disappeared!" cried Michel Ardan, wonder-stricken.

In fact, no ray of light or shade had appeared on the disc, formerly so brilliant. The obscurity
was complete, and rendered deeper still by the shining of the stars. It was the darkness of
lunar night, which lasts 354 hours and a half on each point of the disc--a long night, the
result of the equality of the movements of translation and rotation of the moon, the one upon
herself, the other round the earth. The projectile in the satellite's cone of shadow was no
longer under the action of the solar rays.

In the interior darkness was, therefore, complete. The travellers could no longer see one another.
Hence came the necessity to lighten this darkness. However desirous Barbicane might be to economise
the gas, of which he had so small a reserve, he was obliged to have recourse to it for artificial
light--an expensive brilliancy which the sun then refused.

"The devil take the radiant orb!" cried Michel Ardan; "he is going to force us to spend our
gas instead of giving us his rays for nothing."

"We must not accuse the sun," said Nicholl. "It is not his fault, it is the moon's fault for
coming and putting herself like a screen between us and him."

"It's the sun!" said Michel again.

"It's the moon!" retorted Nicholl.

An idle dispute began, which Barbicane put an end to by saying--

"My friends, it is neither the fault of the sun nor the moon. It is the projectile's fault
for deviating from its course instead of rigorously following it. Or, to be juster still, it
is the fault of that unfortunate asteroid which so deplorably altered our first direction."

"Good!" answered Michel Ardan; "as that business is settled let us have our breakfast. After
a night entirely passed in making observations, we want something to set us to rights a little."

This proposition met with no contradiction. Michel prepared the repast in a few minutes. But
they ate for the sake of eating. They drank without toasts or hurrahs. The bold travellers,
borne away into the darkness of space without their accustomed escort of rays, felt a vague
uneasiness invade their hearts. The "farouche" darkness, so dear to the pen of Victor Hugo,
surrounded them on all sides.

In the meantime they talked about this interminable night, 354 hours, or nearly 15 days, long,
which physical laws have imposed upon the inhabitants of the moon. Barbicane gave his friends
some explanation of the causes and consequences of this curious phenomenon.

"Curious it certainly is," said he, "for if each hemisphere of the moon is deprived of solar
light for fifteen days, the one over which we are moving at this moment does not even enjoy,
during its long night, a sight of the brilliantly-lighted earth. In a word, there is no moon,
applying that qualification to our spheroid, except for one side of the disc. Now, if it was
the same upon earth--if, for example, Europe never saw the moon, and she was only visible at
the antipodes--you can figure to yourselves the astonishment of a European on arriving in Australia."

"They would make the voyage for nothing but to go and see the moon," answered Michel.

"Well," resumed Barbicane, "that astonishment is reserved to the Selenite who inhabits the
opposite side of the moon to the earth, a side for ever invisible to our fellow-beings of the
terrestrial globe."

"And which we should have seen," added Nicholl, "if we had arrived here at the epoch when the
moon is new--that is to say, a fortnight later."

"To make amends," resumed Barbicane, "an inhabitant of the visible face is singularly favoured
by Nature to the detriment on the invisible face. The latter, as you see, has dark nights of
354 hours long, without a ray of light to penetrate the obscurity. The other, on the contrary,
when the sun, which has lighted him for a fortnight, sets under the horizon, sees on the opposite
horizon a splendid orb rise. It is the earth, thirteen times larger than that moon which we
know--the earth, which is developed to a diameter of two degrees, and which sheds a light thirteen
times greater, which no atmosphere qualifies; the earth, which only disappears when the sun
reappears."

"A fine sentence," said Michel Ardan; "rather academical perhaps."

"It follows," resumed Barbicane, nowise put out, "that the visible face of the disc must be
very agreeable to inhabit, as it is always lighted by the sun or the moon."

"But," said Nicholl, "this advantage must be quite compensated by the unbearable heat which
this light must cause."

"This inconvenience is the same under two faces, for the light reflected by the earth is evidently
deprived of heat. However, this invisible face is still more deprived of heat than the visible
face. I say that for you, Nicholl; Michel would probably not understand."

"Thank you," said Michel.

"In fact," resumed Barbicane, "when the invisible face receives the solar light and heat the
moon is new--that is to say, that she is in conjunction, that she is situated between the sun
and the earth. She is then, on account of the situation which she occupies in opposition when
she is full, nearer the sun by the double of her distance from the earth. Now this distance
may be estimated at the two-hundredth part of that which separates the sun and the earth; or,
in round numbers, at two hundred thousand leagues. Therefore this visible face is nearer the
sun by two hundred thousand leagues when it receives his rays."

"Quite right," replied Nicholl.

"Whilst--" resumed Barbicane.

"Allow me," said Michel, interrupting his grave companion.

"What do you want?"

"I want to go on with the explanation."

"Why?"

"To prove that I have understood."

"Go on, then," said Barbicane, smiling.

"Whilst," said Michel, imitating the tone and gestures of President Barbicane, "when the visible
face of the moon is lighted by the sun the moon is full--that is to say, situated with regard
to the earth the opposite to the sun. The distance which separates it from the radiant orb
is then increased in round numbers by 200,000 leagues, and the heat which it receives must
be rather less."

"Well done!" exclaimed Barbicane. "Do you know, Michel, for an artist you are intelligent."

"Yes," answered Michel carelessly, "we are all intelligent on the Boulevard des Italiens."

Barbicane shook hands gravely with his amiable companion, and went on enumerating the few advantages
reserved to the inhabitants of the visible face.

Amongst others he quoted the observations of the sun's eclipses, which can only be seen from
one side of the lunar disc, because the moon must be in opposition before they can take place.
These eclipses, caused by the interposition of the earth between the sun and the moon, may
last two hours, during which, on account of the rays refracted by its atmosphere, the terrestrial
globe can only appear like a black spot upon the sun.

"Then," said Nicholl, "the invisible hemisphere is very ill-treated by Nature."

"Yes," answered Barbicane, "but not the whole of it. By a certain movement of liberation, a
sort of balancing on its centre, the moon presents more than the half of her disc to the earth.
She is like a pendulum, the centre of gravity of which is towards the terrestrial globe, and
which oscillates regularly. Whence comes that oscillation? Because her movement of rotation
on her axis is animated with uniform velocity, whilst her movement of translation, following
an elliptical orb round the earth, is not. At the perigee the velocity of translation is greater,
and the moon shows a certain portion of her western border. At her apogee the velocity of rotation
is greater, and a morsel of her eastern border appears. It is a strip of about eight degrees,
which appears sometimes on the west, sometimes on the east. The result is, therefore, that
of a thousand parts the moon shows five hundred and sixty-nine."

"No matter," answered Michel; "if we ever become Selenites, we will inhabit the visible face.
I like light."

"Unless," replied Nicholl, "the atmosphere should be condensed on the other side, as certain
astronomers pretend."

"That is a consideration," answered Michel simply.

In the meantime breakfast was concluded, and the observers resumed their posts. They tried
to see through the dark port-light by putting out all light in the projectile. But not one
luminous atom penetrated the obscurity.

One inexplicable fact preoccupied Barbicane. How was it that though the projectile had been
so near the moon, within a distance of twenty-five miles, it had not fallen upon her? If its
speed had been enormous, he would have understood why it had not fallen. But with a relatively
slight speed the resistance to lunar attraction could not be explained. Was the projectile
under the influence of some strange force? Did some body maintain it in the ether? It was henceforth
evident that it would not touch any point upon the moon. Where was it going? Was it going farther
away from or nearer to the disc? Was it carried along in the gloom across infinitude? How were
they to know, how calculate in the dark? All these questions made Barbicane anxious, but he
could not solve them.

In fact, the invisible orb was there, perhaps, at a distance of some leagues only, but neither
his companions nor he could any longer see it. If any noise was made on its surface they could
not hear it. The air, that vehicle of transmission, was wanting to convey to them the groans
of that moon which the Arabian legends make "a man already half-granite, but still palpitating."

It will be agreed that it was enough to exasperate the most patient observers. It was precisely
the unknown hemisphere that was hidden from their eyes. That face which a fortnight sooner
or a fortnight later had been, or would be, splendidly lighted up by the solar rays, was then
lost in absolute darkness. Where would the projectile be in another fortnight? Where would
the hazards of attraction have taken it? Who could say?

It is generally admitted that the invisible hemisphere of the moon is, by its constitution,
absolutely similar to the visible hemisphere. One-seventh of it is seen in those movements
of libration Barbicane spoke of. Now upon the surface seen there were only plains and mountains,
amphitheatres and craters, like those on the maps. They could there imagine the same arid and
dead nature. And yet, supposing the atmosphere to have taken refuge upon that face? Suppose
that with the air water had given life to these regenerated continents? Suppose that vegetation
still persists there? Suppose that animals people these continents and seas? Suppose that man
still lives under those conditions of habitability? How many questions there were it would
have been interesting to solve! What solutions might have been drawn from the contemplation
of that hemisphere! What delight it would have been to glance at that world which no human
eye has seen!

