Just what devices the French Company employed to instigate revolution, can be read in the interesting
work of M. Bunau-Varilla, one of the most zealous officers of the French Company, who had devoted
his life to achieving the construction of the Trans-Isthmian Canal. He was indefatigable, breezy,
and deliberately indiscreet. He tells much, and what he does not tell he leaves you to infer,
without risk of going astray. Mr. William Nelson Cromwell, of New York; the general counsel
of the Company, offset Varilla's loquacity by a proper amount of reticence. Bunau-Varilla hurried
over from Paris, and had interviews with President Roosevelt and Secretary Hay, but could not
draw them into his conspiracy. The President told him that, at the utmost, he would only order
American warships, which were on the Panama coast, to prevent any attack from outside which
might cause bloodshed and interfere with the undisturbed passage across the Isthmus, a duty
which the United States was pledged to perform.

The French zealot-conspirator freely announced that the revolution at Panama would take place
at noon on November 3d. It did take place as scheduled without violence, and with only the
accidental killing of a Chinaman and a dog. The next day the Revolutionists proclaimed the
Republic of Panama, and on November 6th the United States formally recognized its existence
and prepared to open diplomatic relations with it. The Colombian Government had tried to send
troops to put down the rebellion, but the American warships, obeying their orders to prevent
bloodshed or fighting, would not allow the troops to land.

As soon as the news of these events reached Bogota, the halls of Parliament there resounded
with wailing and gnashing of teeth and protests, and curses on the perfidious Americans who
had connived to free the Panamanians in their struggle for liberty. The mountain bandits perceived
that they had overreached themselves. Instead of the $10,000,000 which their envoy Herran had
deemed sufficient; instead of the $40,000,000 and more, which their greed had counted on in
1904, they would receive nothing. The Roosevelt Government immediately signed a contract with
the Republic of Panama, by which the United States leased a zone across the Isthmus for building,
controlling, and operating, the Canal. Then the Colombians, in a panic, sent their most respectable
public man, and formerly their President, General Rafael Reyes, to Washington, to endeavor
to persuade the Government to reverse its compact with the Panama Republic. The blackmailers
were now very humble. Mr. Wayne MacVeagh, who was counsel for Colombia, told me that General
Reyes was authorized to accept $8,000,000 for all the desired concessions, "and," Mr. MacVeagh
added, "he would have taken five millions, but Hay and Roosevelt were so foolish that they
wouldn't accept."

The quick decisions of the Administration in Washington, which accompanied the revolution in
Panama and the recognition of the new Republic, were made by Roosevelt. I have seen no evidence
that Mr. Hay was consulted at the last moment. When the stroke was accomplished, many good
persons in the United States denounced it. They felt that it was high-handed and brutal, and
that it fixed an indelible blot on the national conscience. Many of them did not know of the
long-drawn-out negotiations and of the Colombian premeditated deceit; others knew, but overlooked
or condoned. They upheld strictly the letter of the law. They could not deny that the purpose
of the Colombians was to exact blackmail. It meant nothing to them that Herran, the official
envoy, had drawn up and signed a treaty under instructions from Marroquin, the President of
Colombia, and its virtual dictator, who, having approved of the orders under which Herran acted,
could easily have required the Colombian Parliament to ratify the treaty. Perfervidly pious
critics of Roosevelt pictured him as a bully without conscience, and they blackened his aid
in freeing the Panamanians by calling it "the Rape of Panama." Some of these persons even boldly
asserted that John Hay died of remorse over his part in this wicked deed. The fact is that
John Hay died of a disease which was not caused by remorse, and that, as long as he lived,
he publicly referred to the Panama affair as that in which he took the greatest pride. It is
only in the old Sunday-School stories that Providence punishes wrongdoing with such commendable
swiftness, and causes the naughty boy who goes skating on Sunday to drown forthwith; in real
life the "mills of God grind slowly." Roosevelt always regarded with equal satisfaction the
decision by which the Panama Canal was achieved and the high needs of civilization and the
protection of the United States were attended to. He lived long enough to condemn the proposal
of some of our morbidly conscientious people, hypnotized by the same old crafty Colombians,
to pay Colombia a gratuity five times greater than that which General Reyes would have thankfully
received in December, 1903.

Persons of different temperaments, but of equal patriotism and sincerity, will probably pass
different verdicts on this incident for a long time to come. Mr. Leupp quotes a member of Roosevelt's
Administration as stating four alternative courses the President might have followed. First,
he might have let matters drift until Congress met, and then sent a message on the subject,
shifting the responsibility from his own shoulders to those of the Congressmen. Secondly, he
might have put down the rebellion and restored Panama to Colombia; but this would have been
to subject them against their will to a foreign enemy--an enormity the Anti-Imperialists were
still decrying in our holding the Philippines against the will of their inhabitants. Thirdly,
he might have withdrawn American warships and left Colombia to fight it out with the Panamanians--but
this would have involved bloodshed, tumult, and interruption of transit across the Isthmus,
which the United States, by the agreement of 1846, were bound to prevent. Finally, he might
recognize any de facto government ready and willing to transact business--and this he did.*

* Leupp, 10-11.

That the Colombian politicians, who repudiated the treaty Herran had framed, were blackmailers
of the lowest sort, is as indisputable as is the fact that whoever begins to compromise with
a blackmailer is lured farther and farther into a bog until he is finally swallowed up. Americans
should know also that during the summer and autumn of 1903, German agents were busy in Bogota.
and that, since German capitalists had openly announced their desire to buy up the French Company's
concession, we may guess that they did not urge Colombia to fulfill her obligation to the United
States.

Many years later I discussed the transaction with Mr. Roosevelt, chaffing him with being a
wicked conspirator. He laughed, and replied: " What was the use? The other fellows in Paris
and New York had taken all the risk and were doing all the work. Instead of trying to run a
parallel conspiracy, I had only to sit still and profit by their plot--if it succeeded." He
said also that he had intended issuing a public announcement that, if Colombia by a given date
refused to come to terms, he would seize the Canal Zone in behalf of civilization. I told him
I rather wished that he had accomplished his purpose in that way; but he answered that events
matured too quickly, and that, in any case, where swift action was required, the Executive
and not Congress must decide.

CHAPTER XII. THE GREAT CRUSADE AT HOME

These early diplomatic settlements in Roosevelt's Administration showed the world that the
United States now had a President who did not seek quarrels, but who was not afraid of them,
who never bluffed, because--unlike President Cleveland and Secretary Olney with their Venezuela
Message in 1895--he never made a threat which he could not back up at the moment. There was
no longer a bed of roses to stifle opposition; whosoever hit at the United States would encounter
a barrier of long, sharp, and unbending thorns.

These particular achievements in foreign affairs, and others which I shall mention later, gave
Roosevelt and his country great prestige abroad and the admiration of a large part of his countrymen.
But his truly significant work related to home affairs. Now at last, he, the young David of
the New Ideals, was to go forth, if he dared, and do battle with the Goliath of Conservatism.
With him there was no question of daring. He had been waiting for twenty years for this opportunity.
Such a conflict or duel has rarely been witnessed, because it rarely happens that an individual
who consciously embodies the aims of an epoch is accepted by that epoch as its champion. Looking
backward, we see that Abraham Lincoln typified the ideals of Freedom and Union which were the
supreme issues of his time; but this recognition has come chiefly since his death. In like
fashion I believe that Roosevelt's significance as a champion of Liberty, little suspected
by his contemporaries and hardly surmised even now, will require the lapse of another generation
before it is universally understood.

Many obvious reasons account for this. Most of the internal reforms which Roosevelt struggled
for lacked the dramatic quality or the picturesqueness which appeals to average, dull, unimaginative
men and women. The heroism of the medical experimenter who voluntarily contracts yellow fever
and dies--and thereby saves myriads of lives--makes little impression on the ordinary person,
who can be roused only by stories of battle heroism, of soldiers and torpedoes. And yet the
attacks which Roosevelt made, while they did not involve death, called for the highest kind
of civic courage and fortitude.

