For a quiet wedding the bride dresses in a travelling dress and bonnet, and departs for her
wedding-tour. It is the custom in England, as we have said, for the bride and groom to drive
off in their own carriage, which is dressed with white ribbons, the coach-man and groom wearing
white bouquets, and favors adorning the horses' ears, and for them to take a month's honeymoon.
There also the bride (if she be Hannah Rothschild or the Baroness Burdett-Coutts) gives her
bridesmaids very elegant presents, as a locket or a bracelet, while the groom gives the best
man a scarf-pin or some gift. The American custom is not so universal. However, either bride
or groom gives something to the bridesmaid and a scarf-pin to each usher. Thus a wedding becomes
a very expensive and elaborate affair, which quiet and economical people are sometimes obliged
to avoid.

After the marriage invitations are issued, the lady does not appear in public.

The period of card-leaving after a wedding is not yet definitely fixed. Some authorities say
ten days, but that in a crowded city, and with an immense acquaintance, would be quite impossible.

If only invited to the church, many ladies consider that they perform their whole duty by leaving
a card sometime during the winter, and including the young couple in their subsequent invitations.
Very rigorous people call, however, within ten days, and if invited to the house, the call
is still more imperative, and should be made soon after the wedding.

But if a young couple do not send their future address, but only invite one to a church-wedding,
there is often a very serious difficulty in knowing where to call, and the first visit must
be indefinitely postponed until they send cards notifying their friends of their whereabouts.

Wedding invitations require no answer. But people living at a distance, who cannot attend the
wedding, should send their cards by mail, to assure the hosts that the invitation has been
received. The usual form for wedding-cards is this:

  Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Chapman
  request your presence at the
  marriage of their daughter, on Wednesday evening,
  November fourth, at eight o'clock.
  Grace Church.

The card of the young lady, that of her intended husband, and another card to the favored--

  At Home
  after the ceremony,
  7 East Market Street--

is also enclosed.

People with a large acquaintance cannot always invite all their friends, of course, to a wedding
reception, and therefore invite all to the church. Sometimes people who are to give a small
wedding at home request an answer to the wedding invitation; in that case, of course, an answer
should be sent, and people should be very careful not to ignore these flattering invitations.
Any carelessness is inexcusable when so important an event is on the tapis. Bridesmaids, if
prevented by illness or sudden bereavement from officiating, should notify the bride as soon
as possible, as it is a difficult thing after a bridal cort,ge is arranged to reorganize it.

As to the wedding-tour, it is no longer considered obligatory, nor is the seclusion of the
honey-moon demanded. A very fashionable girl who married an Englishman last summer at Newport
returned in three days to take her own house at Newport, and to receive and give out invitations.
If the newly married pair thus begin house-keeping in their own way, they generally issue a
few "At Home" cards, and thereby open an easy door for future hospitalities. Certainly the
once perfunctory bridal tour is no longer deemed essential, and the more sensible fashion exists
of the taking of a friend's house a few miles out of town for a month.

If the bridal pair go to a watering-place during their early married days, they should be very
careful of outward display of tenderness.

Such exhibitions in the cars or in public places as one often sees, of the bride laying her
head on her husband's shoulder, holding hands, or kissing, are at once vulgar and indecent.
All public display of an affectionate nature should be sedulously avoided. The affections are
too sacred for such outward showing, and the lookers-on are in a very disagreeable position.
The French call love-making l'...... deux, and no egotism is agreeable. People who see a pair
of young doves cooing in public are apt to say that a quarrel is not far off. It is possible
for a lover to show every attention, every assiduity, and not to overdo his demonstrations.
It is quite possible for the lady to be fond of her husband without committing the slightest
offence against good taste.

The young couple are not expected, unless Fortune has been exceptionally kind, to be immediately
responsive in the matter of entertainments. The outer world is only too happy to entertain
them. Nothing can be more imprudent than for a young couple to rush into expenditures which
may endanger their future happiness and peace of mind, nor should they feel that they are obliged
at once to return the dinners and the parties given to them. The time will come, doubtless,
when they will be able to do so.

But the announcement of a day on which the bride will receive her friends is almost indispensable.
The refreshments on these occasions should not exceed tea and cake, or, at the most, punch,
tea, chocolate, and cakes, which may stand on a table at one end of the room, or may be handed
by a waiter. Bouillon, on a cold day of winter, is also in order, and is perhaps the most serviceable
of all simple refreshments. For in giving a "four-o'clock tea," or several day receptions,
a large entertainment is decidedly vulgar.

CHAPTER XIV. GOLD, SILVER, AND TIN WEDDINGS.

Very few people have the golden opportunity of living together for fifty years in the holy
estate of matrimony. When they have overcome in so great a degree the many infirmities of the
flesh, and the common incompatibility of tempers, they deserve to be congratulated, and to
have a wedding festivity which shall be as ceremonious as the first one, and twice as impressive.
But what shall we give them?

The gifts of gold must be somewhat circumscribed, and therefore the injunction, so severe and
so unalterable, which holds good at tin and silver weddings, that no presents must be given
of any other metal than that designated by the day, does not hold good at a golden wedding.
A card printed in gold letters, announcing that John Anderson and Mary Brown were married,
for instance, in 1830, and will celebrate their golden wedding in 1880, is generally the only
golden manifestation. One of the cards recently issued reads in this way:

 1831. 		1881.

  Mr. and Mrs. John Anderson,
  At Home November twenty-first, 1881,
  Golden Wedding,
  17 Carmichael Street,
at eight o'clock.

All done in gold, on white, thick English paper, that is nearly all the exhibition of gold
necessary at a golden wedding, unless some friend gives the aged bride a present of jewellery.
The bride receives her children and grandchildren dressed in some article which she wore at
her first wedding, if any remain. Sometimes a veil, or a handkerchief, or a fan, scarcely ever
the whole dress, has lasted fifty years, and she holds a bouquet of white flowers. A wedding-cake
is prepared with a ring in it, and on the frosting is the date, and the monogram of the two,
who have lived together so long.

These golden weddings are apt to be sad. It is not well for the old to keep anniversaries--too
many ghosts come to the feast. Still, if people are happy enough to wish to do so, there can
be no harm in it. Their surroundings may possibly surpass their fondest dreams, but as it regards
themselves, the contrast is painful. They have little in common with bridal joys, and unless
it is the wish of some irrepressible descendant, few old couples care to celebrate the golden
wedding save in their hearts. If they have started at the foot of the ladder, and have risen,
they may not wish to remember their early struggles; if they have started high, and have gradually
sunk into poverty or ill health, they certainly do not wish to photograph those better days
by the fierce light of an anniversary, It is only the very exceptionally good, happy, and serene
people who can afford to celebrate a golden wedding.

Far otherwise with the silver wedding, which comes in this country while people are still young,
in the very prime of life, With much before them, and when to stop midway to take an account
of one's friends and one's blessings is a wise and a pleasant thing. The cards are issued,
printed in silver, somewhat in this style:

 1856. 		1881.

Mr. and Mrs. Carter request the pleasure of your company on Wednesday, October the twenty-seventh,
at eight o'clock. Silver Wedding.

John Carter.		 Sarah Smith.

Such, at least, is one form. Many people do not, however, add their names at the end; while,
again, some go even farther; and transcribe the marriage notice from the newspaper of the period.

Gifts of silver being comparatively inexpensive, and always useful, almost all friends who
are invited send a gift of silver-ware, marked "Silver Wedding" or, still better, marked with
an appropriate motto, and the initials of the pair, engraved in a true-lover's knot.

In old Dutch silver these pretty monograms and the lover's knot are very common. This was probably
put upon the original wedding silver, and we know that the art was studied by such men as Albrecht
Drer, Benvenuto Cellini, and Rubens, for we find among their drawings many monograms and such
devices. It adds very much to the beauty of a piece of silver to bear such engraving, and it
is always well to add a motto, or a "posy," as the bid phrase has it, thus investing the gift
with a personal interest, in our absence of armorial bearings. Since many pretty ornaments
come in silver, it is possible to vary the gifts by sometimes presenting flacons (a pendant
flacon for the chatelaine: some very artistic things come in this pretty ornament now, with
colored plaques representing antique figures, etc.). Sometimes a costly intaglio is sunk in
silver and set as a pin. Clocks of silver, bracelets, statuary in silver, necklaces, picture-frames,
and filigree pendants hanging to silver necklaces which resemble pearls; beautiful jewel-cases
and boxes for the toilet; dressing-cases well furnished with silver; hand-mirrors set in fretted
silver; bracelets, pendant seals, and medallions in high relief--all come now for gifts in
the second precious metal. A very pretty gift was designed by a young artist for his mother
on the celebration of her silver wedding. It was a monogram and love-knot after the fashion
of the seventeenth century, and made, when joined, a superb belt-clasp, each little ornament
of the relief repeating the two dates. Mantle clasps of solid silver ornamented with precious
stones, and known in the Middle Ages as fermillets, are pretty presents, and these ornaments
can be also enriched with gold and enamel without losing their silver character. Chimerical
animals and floral ornaments are often used in enriching these agrafes.

Mirrors set in silver are very handsome for the toilet-table; also, brushes and combs can be
made of it. All silver is apt to tarnish, but a dip in water and ammonia cleans it at once,
and few people now like the white foamy silver; that which has assumed a gray tint is much
more admired. Indeed, artistic jewellers have introduced the hammered silver, which looks like
an old tin teapot, and to the admirers of the real silver tint is very ugly; but it renders
the wearing of a silver chftelaine very much easier, for the chains and ornaments which a lady
now wears on her belt are sure to grow daily into the fashion. Silver parasol handles are also
very fashionable. We have enlarged upon this subject of gifts of silver in answer to several
questions as to what it is proper to give at a silver wedding. Of course the wealthy can send
pitchers, vases, vegetable dishes, soup tureens, and waiters. All the beautiful things which
are now made by our silversmiths are tempting to the purse. There are also handsome silver
necklaces, holding old and rare coins, and curious watches of silver, resembling fruits, nuts,
and animals. The farther back we go in the history of silver-ware, the better models we are
sure to obtain.

As for the entertainment, it includes the inevitable cake, of course, and the bride puts the
knife into it as she did twenty-five years ago. The ring is eagerly sought for. Then a large
and plentiful repast is offered, exactly like that of any reception-table. Champagne is in
order, healths are drunk, and speeches made at most of these silver weddings.

Particularly delightful are silver weddings which are celebrated in the country, especially
if the house is large enough to hold a number of guests. Then many a custom can be observed
of peculiar significance and friendliness; everybody can help to prepare the feast, decorate
the house with flowers, and save the bride from those tearful moments which come with any retrospect.
All should try to make the scene a merry one, for there is no other reason for its celebration.

Tin weddings, which occur after ten years have passed over two married heads, are signals for
a general frolic. Not only are the usual tin utensils which can be used for the kitchen and
household purposes offered, but fantastic designs and ornaments are gotten up for the purpose
of raising a laugh. One young bride received a handsome check from her father-in-law, who labelled
it "Tin," and sent it to her in a tin pocket-book elaborately constructed for the purpose.
One very pretty tin fender was constructed for the fireplace of another, and was not so ugly.
A tin screen, tin chandeliers, tin fans, and tin tables have been offered. If these serve no
other purpose, they do admirably for theatrical properties later, if the family like private
plays, etc., at home.

Wooden weddings occur after five years of marriage, and afford the bride much refurnishing
of the kitchen, and nowadays some beautiful presents of wood-carving. The wooden wedding, which
was begun in jest with a step-ladder and a rolling-pin several years ago, now threatens to
become a very splendid anniversary indeed, since the art of carving in wood is so popular,
and so much practised by men and women. Every one is ready for a carved box, picture-frame,
screen, sideboard, chair, bureau, dressing-table, crib, or bedstead. Let no one be afraid to
offer a bit of wood artistically carved. Everything is in order but wooden nutmegs; they are
ruled out.

At one of the golden weddings of the Rothschilds we read of such presents as a solid gold dinner
service; a chased cup of Benvenuto Cellini in solid gold, enriched with precious stones; a
box, with cover of gold, in the early Renaissance, with head of Marie de Medicis in oxidized
gold; of rings from Cyprus, containing sapphires from the tombs of the Crusaders; of solid
crystals cut in drinking cups, with handles of gold; of jade goblets set in gold saucers; of
singing-birds in gold; and of toilet appliances, all in solid gold, not to speak of chains,
rings, etc. This is luxury, and as such to be commended to those who can afford it. But it
must entail great inconvenience. Gold is so valuable that a small piece of it goes a great
way, and even a Rothschild would not like to leave out a gold dressing-case, lest it might
tempt the most honest of waiting-women.

No doubt some of our millionaire Americans can afford such golden wedding-presents, but of
course they are rare, and even if common, would be less in keeping than some less magnificent
gifts. Our republican simplicity would be outraged and shocked at seeing so much coin of the
realm kept out of circulation.

There are, however, should we wish to make a present to a bride of fifty years' standing, many
charming bits of gold jewellery very becoming, very artistic, and not too expensive for a moderate
purse. There are the delicate productions of Castellani, the gold and enamel of Venice, the
gold-work of several different colors which has become so artistic; there are the modern antiques,
copied from the Phoenician jewellery found at Cyprus--these made into pins for the cap, pendants
for the neck, rings and bracelets, boxes for the holding of small sweetmeats, so fashionable
many years ago, are pretty presents for an elderly lady. For a gentleman it is more difficult
to find souvenirs. We must acknowledge that it is always difficult to select a present for
a gentleman. Unless he has as many feet as Briareus had hands, or unless he is a centipede,
he cannot wear all the slippers given to him; and the shirt-studs and sleeve-buttons are equally
burdensome. Rings are now fortunately in fashion, and can be as expensive as one pleases. But
one almost regrets the disuse of snuff, as that gave occasion for many beautiful boxes. It
would be difficult to find, however, such gold snuffboxes as were once handed round among monarchs
and among wealthy snuffers. The giving of wedding-presents has had to endure many changes since
its first beginning, which was a wise and generous desire to help the young pair to begin house-keeping.
It has become now an occasion of ostentation. So with the gifts at the gold and silver weddings.
They have almost ceased to be friendly offerings, and are oftener a proof of the giver's wealth
than of his love.

No wonder that some delicate-minded people, wishing to celebrate their silver wedding, cause
a line to be printed on their invitations, "No presents received."

Foreigners have a beautiful custom, which we have not, of remembering every f^te day, every
birthday, every saint's day, in a friend's calendar. A bouquet, a present of fruit, a kind
note, a little celebration which costs nothing, occurs in every family on papa's birthday or
mamma's f^te day. But as we have nothing of that sort, and as most people prefer that, as in
the case of the hero of the Pirates, a birthday shall only come once in four years, it is well
for us to celebrate the tin, silver, and golden weddings.

The twentieth anniversary of one's wedding is never celebrated. It is considered very unlucky
to do so. The Scotch think one or the other will die within the year if the twentieth anniversary
is even alluded to.

CHAPTER XV. THE ETIQUETTE OF BALLS.

A hostess must not use the word "ball" on her invitation-cards. She may say,

Mrs. John Brown requests the pleasure of the company of
 Mr. and Mrs. Amos Smith
 on Thursday evening, November twenty-second,
 at nine o'clock.

Dancing. 		R.S.V.P.

Or,

Mrs. John Brown
 At Home
 Thursday evening, November twenty-second,
 at nine o'clock.

Cotillion at ten.		 R. S. V. P.

But she should not indicate further the purpose of her party. In New York, where young ladies
are introduced to society by means of a ball at Delmonico's, the invitation is frequently worded,

Mr. and Mrs. Amos Smith request the pleasure
of your company
 Thursday evening, November twenty-second,
 at nine o'clock.

  Delmonico' s.

The card of the young d,butante is sometimes (although not always) enclosed.

If these invitations are sent to new acquaintances, or to strangers in town, the card of the
gentleman is enclosed to gentlemen, that of both the gentleman and his wife to ladies and gentlemen,
if it is a first invitation.

A ballroom should be very well lighted, exceedingly well ventilated, and very gayly dressed.
It is the height of the gayety of the day; and although dinner calls for handsome dress, a
ball demands it. Young persons of slender figure prefer light, diaphanous dresses; the chaperons
can wear heavy velvet and brocade. Jewels are in order. A profusion of flowers in the hands
of the women should add their brightness and perfume to the rooms. The great number of bouquets
sent to a d,butante is often embarrassing. The present fashion is to have them hung, by different
ribbons, on the arm, so that they look as if almost a trimming to the dress.

Gentlemen who have not selected partners before the ball come to their hostess and ask to be
presented to ladies who will dance with them. As a hostess cannot leave her place while receiving,
and people come at all hours to a ball, she generally asks two or three well-known society
friends to receive with her, who will take this part of her duty off her hands, for no hostess
likes to see "wall-flowers" at her ball: she wishes all her young people to enjoy themselves.
Well-bred young men always say to the hostess that they beg of her to introduce them to ladies
who may be without partners, as they would gladly make themselves useful to her. After dancing
with a lady, and walking about the room with her for a few times, a gentleman is at perfect
liberty to take the young lady back to her chaperon and plead another engagement.

A great drawback to balls in America is the lack of convenience for those who wish to remain
seated. In Europe, where the elderly are first considered, seats are placed around the room,
somewhat high, for the chaperons, and at their feet sit the debutantes. These red-covered sofas,
in two tiers, as it were, are brought in by the upholsterer (as we hire chairs for the crowded
musicales or readings so common in large cities), and are very convenient. It is strange that
all large halls are not furnished with them, as they make every one comfortable at very little
expense, and add to the appearance of the room. A row of well-dressed ladies, in velvet, brocade,
and diamonds, some with white hair, certainly forms a very distinguished background for those
who sit at their feet.

Supper is generally served all the evening from a table on which flowers, fruits, candelabra,
silver, and glass are displayed, and which is loaded with hot oysters, boned turkey, salmon,
game pft,s, salads, ices, jellies, and fruits, from the commencement of the evening. A hot
supper, with plentiful cups of bouillon, is served again for those who dance the german.

But if the hostess so prefer, the supper is not served until she gives the word, when her husband
leads the way with the most distinguished lady present, the rest of the company following.
The hostess rarely goes in to supper until every one has been served. She takes the opportunity
of walking about her ballroom to see if every one is happy and attended to. If she does go
to supper, it is in order to accompany some distinguished guest--like the President, for instance.
This is, however, a point which may be left to the tact of the hostess.

A young lady is not apt to forget her ballroom engagements, but she should be sure not to do
so. She must be careful not to offend one gentleman by refusing to dance with him, and then
accepting the offer of another. Such things, done by frivolous girls, injure a young man's
feelings unnecessarily, and prove that the young lady has not had the training of a gentlewoman.
A young man should not forget if he has asked a young lady for the german. He must send her
a bouquet, and be on hand to dance with her. If kept away by sickness, or a death in his family,
he must send her a note before the appointed hour.

It is not necessary to take leave of your hostess at a ball. All that she requires of you is
to bow to her on entering, and to make yourself as agreeable and happy as you can while in
her house.

Young men are not always as polite as they should be at balls. They ought, if well-bred, to
look about, and see if any lady has been left unattended at supper, to ask if they can go for
refreshments, if they can lead a lady to a seat, go for a carriage, etc. It is not an impertinence
for a young man thus to speak to a lady older than himself, even if he has not been introduced;
the roof is a sufficient introduction for any such purpose.

The first persons asked to dance by the young gentlemen invited to a house should be the daughters
of the house. To them and to their immediate relatives and friends must the first attentions
be paid.

It is not wise for young ladies to join in every dance, nor should a young chaperon dance,
leaving her proteg,e sitting. The very bad American custom of sending several young girls to
a ball with a very young chaperon--perhaps one of their number who has just been married--has
led to great vulgarity in our American city life, not to say to that general misapprehension
of foreigners which offends without correcting our national vanity. A mother should endeavor
to attend balls with her daughters, and to stay as long as they do. But many mothers say, "We
are not invited: there is not room for us." Then her daughters should not accept. It is a very
poor American custom not to invite the mothers. Let a lady give two or three balls, if her
list is so large that she can only invite the daughters. If it be absolutely necessary to limit
the invitations, the father should go with the daughters, for who else is to escort them to
their carriage, take care of them if they faint, or look to their special or accidental wants?
The fact that a few established old veterans of society insist upon "lagging superfluous on
the stage" should not deter ladies who entertain from being true to the ideas of the best society,
which certainly are in favor of chaperonage.

A lady should not overcrowd her rooms. To put five hundred people into a hot room, with no
chairs to rest in, and little air to breathe, is to apply a very cruel test to friendship.
It is this impossibility of putting one's "five hundred dear friends" into a narrow house which
has led to the giving of balls at public rooms--an innovation which shocked a French woman
of rank who married an American. "You have no safeguard for society in America," she observed,
"but your homes. No aristocracy, no king, no courts, no traditions, but the sacred one of home.
Now, do you not run great risks when you abandon your homes, and bring out your girls at a
hotel?" There is something in her wise remarks; and with the carelessness of chaperonage in
cities which are now largely populated by irresponsible foreigners the dangers increase.

The first duty of a gentleman on entering a ballroom is to make his bow to the lady of the
house and to her daughters; he should then strive to find his host--a very difficult business
sometimes. Young men are to be very much censured, however, who do not find out their host,
and insist on being presented to him. Paterfamilias in America is sometimes thought to hold
a very insignificant place in his own house, and be good for nothing but to draw checks. This
is indicative of a very low social condition, and no man invited to a gentleman's house should
leave it until he has made his bow to the head thereof.

It is proper for intimate friends to ask for invitations for other friends to a ball, particularly
for young gentlemen who are "dancing men." More prudence should be exercised in asking in behalf
of ladies, but the hostess has always the privilege of saying that her list is full, if she
does not wish to invite her friends' friends. No offence should be taken if this refusal be
given politely. In a majority of luxurious houses a tea-room is open from the beginning to
the end of a ball, frequently on the second story, where bouillon, tea, coffee, and macaroons
are in order, or a plate of sandwiches, or any such light refreshment, for those who do not
wish a heavy supper. A large bowl of iced lemonade is also in this room--a most grateful refreshment
after leaving a hot ballroom.

The practice of putting crash over carpets has proved so unhealthy to the dancers, on account
of the fine fuzz which rises from it in dancing, that it is now almost wholly abandoned; and
parquet floors are becoming so common, and the dancing on them is so much more agreeable in
every way, that ladies have their heavy parlor carpets taken up before a ball rather than lay
a crash.

A smoking-room, up or down stairs, is set apart for the gentlemen, where, in some houses, cigars
and brandy and effervescent waters are furnished. If this provision be not made, it is the
height of indelicacy for gentlemen to smoke in the dressing-rooms.

The bad conduct of young men at large balls, where they abuse their privileges by smoking,
getting drunk at supper, eating unreasonably, blockading the tables, and behaving in an unseemly
manner, even coming to blows in the supper-rooms, has been dwelt upon in the annals of the
past, which annals ever remain a disgrace to the young fashionables of any city. Happily, such
breaches of decorum are now so rare that there is no need to touch upon them here.

Many of our correspondents ask the embarrassing question, "Who is it proper to invite to a
first ball?" This is a question which cannot be answered in a general way. The tact and delicacy
of the host must decide it.

At public balls there should be managers, ushers, stewards, and, if possible, a committee of
ladies to receive. It is very much more conducive to the elegance of a ball if there be a recognized
hostess, or committee of hostesses: the very aspect of the room is thus improved. And to a
stranger from another city these ladies should be hospitable, taking care that she be introduced
and treated with suitable attention.

An awning and carpet should be placed at the front entrance of a house in which a ball is to
be given, to protect the guests against the weather and the gaze of the crowd of by-standers
who always gather in a great city to see the well-dressed ladies alight. Unfortunately, in
a heavy rain these awnings are most objectionable; they are not water-proof, and as soon as
they are thoroughly wet they afford no protection whatever.

The cotillion styled the German was first danced by the German court just after the battle
of Waterloo, probably at the ball at Aix-la-Chapelle given to the allied sovereigns. Favors
are given merely to promote enjoyment and to give variety. It is not necessary that people
be matrimonially engaged to dance it. One engages his partner for it as for any other dance.
It had been fashionable in Europe many years before it came to this country, but has been danced
here for over forty years, first coming out at Washington.

CHAPTER XVI. FASHIONABLE DANCING.

The return to quadrilles at some of the latest balls at Delmonico's in the winter of 1884 was
an important epoch in the history of dancing, reiterating the well-known proverb of the dressmakers
that everything comes round in fifty years. Fashion seems to be perennial in this way, for
it is almost fifty years--certainly forty--since the quadrille was at the height of fashion.
In Germany, where they dance for dancing's sake, the quadrille was long ago voted rococo and
stiff. In England and at court balls it served always as a way, a dignified manner, for sovereigns
and people of inconveniently high rank to begin a ball, to open a festivity, and it had a sporadic
existence in the country and at Washington even during the years when the Lancers, a much livelier
dance, had chased it away from the New York balls for a long period of time.

The quadrille is a stately and a conversational dance. The figures are accurate, and every
one should know them well enough to respond to the voice of the leader. But inasmuch as the
figures are always calling one away from his partner, the first law is to have a large supply
of small-talk, so that, on rejoining, a remark and a smile may make up for lost time. A calm,
graceful carriage, the power to make an elegant courtesy, are necessary to a lady. No one in
these days takes steps; a sort of galop is, however, allowed in the rapid figures of the quadrille.
A defiant manner, sometimes assumed by a bashful man, is out of place, although there are certain
figures which make a man feel rather defiant. One of these is where he is obliged, as cavalier
seul, to advance to three ladies, who frequently laugh at him. Then a man should equally avoid
a boisterous demeanor in a quadrille; not swinging the lady round too gayly. It is never a
romping dance, like the Virginia reel, for instance.

All people are apt to walk through a quadrille slowly, to music, until they come to the "ladies'
chain" or the "promenade." It is, however, permissible to add a little swinging-step and a
graceful dancing-movement to this stately promenade. A quadrille cannot go on evenly if any
confusion arises from the ignorance, obstinacy, or inattention of one of the dancers. It is
proper, therefore, if ignorant of the figures, to consult a dancing-master and to learn them.
It is a most valuable dance, as all ages, sizes, and conditions of men and women can join in
it. The young, old, stout, thin, lazy, active, maimed, or single, without loss of caste, can
dance a quadrille. No one looks ridiculous dancing a quadrille. It is decidedly easier than
the German, makes a break in a t^te-...-t^te conversation, and enables a gentleman to be polite
to a lady who may not be a good dancer for waltz or polka. The morality of round dances seems
now to be little questioned. At any rate, young girls in the presence of their mothers are
not supposed to come to harm from their enjoyment. Dancing is one of the oldest, the most historical,
forms of amusement. Even Socrates learned to dance. There is no longer an excommunication on
the waltz, that dance which Byron abused.

In England the valse ... deux temps is still the most fashionable, as it always will be the
most beautiful, of dances. Some of the critics of all countries have said that only Germans,
Russians, and Americans can dance it. The Germans dance it very quickly, with a great deal
of motion, but render it elegant by slacking the pace every now and then. The Russians waltz
so quietly, on the contrary, that they can go round the room holding a brimming glass of champagne
without spilling a drop. This evenness in waltzing is very graceful, and can only be reached
by long practice, a good ear for music, and a natural gracefulness. Young Americans, who, as
a rule, are the best dancers in the world, achieve this step to admiration. It is the gentleman's
duty in any round dance to guide his fair companion gracefully; he must not risk a collision
or the chance of a fall. A lady should never waltz if she feels dizzy. It is a sign of disease
of the heart, and has brought on death. Neither should she step flat-footed, and make her partner
carry her round; but must do her part of the work, and dance lightly and well, or not at all.
Then, again, neither should her partner waltz on the tip of his toes, nor lift his partner
too much off the floor; all should be smooth, graceful, delicate.

The American dance of the season is, however, the polka--not the old-fashioned "heel and toe,"
but the step, quick and gay, of the Sclavonic nationalities. It may be danced slowly or quickly.
It is always, however, a spirited step, and the music is undoubtedly pretty. The dancing-masters
describe the step of a polka as being a "hop, three glides, and a rest," and the music is two-four
time. In order to apply the step to the music one must make it in four-eight time, counting
four to each measure of the music, each measure taking about a second of time by the watch.
The polka redowa and the polka mazourka are modifications of this step to different times.

The galop is another fashionable dance this winter. It is very easy, and is danced to very
quick music; it is inspiriting at the end of a ball.

The minuet de la cour was first danced in the ancient province of Poitou, France. In Paris,
in 1653, Louis XIV., who was passionately fond of it, danced it to perfection. In 1710, Marcel,
the renowned dancing-master, introduced it into England. Then it went out for many years, until
Queen Victoria revived it at a bal costum, at Buckingham Palace in 1845. In New York it was
revived and ardently practised for Mrs. W. K. Vanderbilt's splendid fancy ball in 1883, and
it was much admired. There seems no reason why the grace, the dignity, the continuous movement;
the courtesy, the pas grace, the skilfully-managed train, the play with the fan, should not
commend this elegant dance to even our republican dancers; but it has not been danced this
winter. It is possibly too much trouble. A dancing-master worked all winter to teach it to
the performers of the last season.

To make a courtesy (or, as we are fond of saying, a curtsy) properly is a very difficult art,
yet all who dance the quadrille must learn it. To courtesy to her partner the lady steps off
with the right foot, carrying nearly all her weight upon it, at the same time raising the heel
of the left foot, thus placing herself in the second position, facing her partner, counting
one. She then glides the left foot backward and across till the toe of the left foot is directly
behind the right heel, the feet about one half of the length of the foot apart. This glide
commences on the ball of the left foot, and terminates with both feet flat upon the floor,
and the transfer of the weight to the backward foot. The bending of the knees and the casting
down of the eyes begin with the commencement of the glide with the left foot, and the genuflection
is steadily continued until the left foot reaches the position required, counting two; then,
without changing the weight from the backward foot, she gradually rises, at the same time raising
the forward heel and lifting the eyes, until she recovers her full height, counting three;
and finally transfers the weight to the forward foot, counting four. Such is the elaborate
and the graceful courtesy. It should be studied with a master.

The "German" (the "Cotillon," as the French call it) is, however, and probably long will be,
the most fashionable dance in society. It ends every ball in New York, Washington, Boston,
Philadelphia, and Newport; it is a part of the business of life, and demands consummate skill
in its leadership. Any number may join in it; it often reaches twice around a large ballroom.
All the couples in it are regarded as introduced to each other. No lady can refuse to dance
with any gentleman who is brought to her in the German. So long as she remains in the charmed
circle she must dance with any one in it. Therefore the German must only be introduced at select
assemblies, not at a public ball. The leader opens the German by motioning to certain couples
to make a tour de valse round the room.

Many of our correspondents write to ask us what are the latest and the favorite figures in
the German. This is a difficult question to answer, as the leader always has his own favorite
figures. The German generally begins with l'avant trois double, which may be generally described
thus: the leader, having performed the tour de valse with his partner, leaves her, and brings
forward two other ladies; his lady brings forward two other gentlemen; the two trios place
themselves opposite each other, then forward and back, and each gentleman with the lady in
front of him performs a tour de valse. Should the company be large, two or more couples may
start together, each couple choosing other ladies and gentlemen in the same manner as the first
couple. Then comes La Chaise after the tour de valse. The leader places his partner in a chair
in the centre of the room; he then brings forward two gentlemen and presents them to the lady,
who chooses one of them, after which he seats the gentleman who is rejected, and brings to
him two ladies; he also selects a partner, and the leader dances with the refused lady to her
place. This figure may be danced by any number of couples.

Les Drapeaux is a favorite figure. Five or six duplicate sets of small flags of national or
fancy devices must be in readiness. The leader takes a flag of each pattern, and his partner
takes the duplicate. They perform a tour de valse. The conductor then presents his flags to
five or six ladies, and his partner presents the corresponding flags to as many gentlemen.
The gentlemen then seek the ladies having the duplicates, and with them perform a tour de valse,
waving the flags as they dance. Repeated by all the couples.

Les Bouquets brings in the favors. A number of small bouquets and boutonnieres are placed upon
a table or in a basket. The first couple perform a tour de valse; they then separate. The gentleman
takes a bouquet, and the lady a boutonniere. They now select new partners, to whom they present
the bouquet and boutonniere, the lady attaching the boutonniere to the gentleman's coat. They
perform a tour de valse with their new partners. Repeated by all the couples. Other favors
are frequently substituted for bouquets and boutonnieres, such as rosettes, miniature flags,
artificial butterflies, badges, sashes, bonbons, little bells (the latter being attached to
small pieces of ribbon and pinned to the coat or dress), scarf-pins, bangles, fans, caps, imitation
antique coins, breastpins, lace pins, lockets; and even gifts of great value, such as shawls,
scarfs, vases, picture-frames, writing-desks, and chairs (represented, of course, by tickets)
have been this winter introduced in the german. But the cheap, light, fantastic things are
the best, and contribute more to the amusement of the company.

Some of the figures of the German border on the romp. One of these is called La Corde. A rope
is stretched by the leading couple across the room, and the gentlemen jump over it to reach
their partners. Much amusement is occasioned by the tripping of gentlemen who are thrown by
the intentional raising of the rope. After all have reached their partners they perform a tour
de valse, and regain their seats. This is a figure not to be commended. Still less is the figure
called Les Masques. The gentlemen put on masques resembling "Bully Bottom" and other grotesque
faces and heads of animals. They raise these heads above a screen, the ladies choosing partners
without knowing them; the gentlemen remain en masque until the termination of the tour de valse.
This figure was danced at Delmonico's and at the Brunswick last winter, and the mammas complained
that the fun grew rather too fast and furious. Les Rubans is a very pretty figure. Six ribbons,
each about a yard in length, and of various colors, are attached to one end of a stick about
twenty-four inches in length, also a duplicate set of ribbons, attached to another stick, must
be in readiness. The first couple conduct the ladies and gentlemen towards each other, and
each gentleman dances with the lady holding the ribbon duplicate of his own; the first gentleman
dances with his partner.

We might go on indefinitely with these figures, but have no more space. The position of a dancer
should be learned with the aid of a teacher. The upper part of the body should be quiet; the
head held in a natural position, neither turned to one side nor the other; the eyes neither
cast down nor up. The gentleman should put his arm firmly around a lady's waist, not holding
her too close, but firmly holding her right hand with his left one; the lady turns the palm
of her right hand downward; her right arm should be nearly straight, but not stiff. The gentleman's
left arm should be slightly bent, his elbow inclined slightly backward. It is very inelegant,
however--indeed, vulgar--to place the joined hands against the gentleman's side or hip; they
should be kept clear of the body. The step should be in unison; if the gentleman bends his
right elbow too much, he draws the lady's left shoulder against his right, thereby drawing
the lady too close. The gentleman's right shoulder and the lady's left should be as far apart
as the other shoulders. If a gentleman does not hold his partner properly, thereby causing
her either to struggle to be free or else to dance wildly for want of proper support, if he
permits himself and partner to collide with other couples, he cannot be considered a good dancer.

CHAPTER XVII. LETTERS AND LETTER-WRITING.

The person who can write a graceful note is always spoken of with phrases of commendation.
The epistolary art is said to be especially feminine, and the novelists and essayists are full
of compliments to the sex, which is alternately praised and objurgated, as man feels well or
ill. Bulwer says: "A woman is the genius of epistolary communication. Even men write better
to a woman than to one of their own sex. No doubt they conjure up, while writing, the loving,
listening face, the tender, pardoning heart, the ready tear of sympathy, and passionate confidences
of heart and brain flow rapidly from the pen." But there is no such thing now as an "epistolary
style." Our immediate ancestors wrote better and longer letters than we do. They covered three
pages of large letter-paper with crow-quill handwriting, folded the paper neatly, tucked one
edge beneath the other (for there were no envelopes), and then sealed it with a wafer or with
sealing-wax. To send one of these epistles was expensive--twenty-five cents from New York to
Boston. However, the electric telegraph and cheap postage and postal-cards may have been said,
in a way, to have ruined correspondence in the old sense; lovers and fond mothers doubtless
still write long letters, but the business of the letter-writer proper is at an end. The writing
of notes has, however, correspondingly increased; and the last ten years have seen a profuse
introduction of emblazoned crest and cipher, pictorial design, and elaborate monogram in the
corners of ordinary note-paper. The old illuminated missal of the monks, the fancy of the Japanese,
the ever-ready taste of the French, all have been exhausted to satisfy that always hungry caprice
which calls for something new.

The frequency with which notes upon business and pleasure must fly across a city and a continent
has done away, also, with the sealing-wax, whose definite, red, clear, oval was a fixture with
our grandfathers, and which is still the only elegant, formal, and ceremonious way acknowledged
in England, of sealing a letter.

There were, however, serious objections to the use of wax in this country, which were discovered
during the early voyages to California. The intense heat of the Isthmus of Panama melted the
wax, and letters were irretrievably glued together, to the loss of the address and the confusion
of the postmaster. So the glued envelope--common, cheap, and necessary--became the almost prevailing
fashion for all notes as well as letters.

The taste for colored note-paper with flowers in the corner was common among the belles of
thirty years ago--the "rose-colored and scented billet-doux" is often referred to in the novels
of that period. But colored note-paper fell into disuse long ago, and for the last few years
we have not seen the heavy tints. A few pale greens, grays, blues, and lilacs have, indeed,
found a place in fashionable stationery, and a deep coffee-colored, heavy paper had a little
run about three years ago; but at the present moment no color that is appreciable is considered
stylish, unless it be ,cru, which is only a creamy white.

A long truce is at last bidden to the fanciful, emblazoned, and colored monogram; the crest
and cipher are laid on the shelf, and ladies have simply the address of their city residence,
or the name of their country place, printed in one corner (generally in color), or, latest
device of fashion, a fac-simile of their initials, carefully engraved, and dashed across the
corner of the note-paper. The day of the week, also copied from their own handwriting, is often
impressed upon the square cards now so much in use for short notes, or on the note-paper.

There is one fashion which has never changed, and will never change, which is always in good
taste, and which, perhaps, would be to-day the most perfect of all styles, and that is, good,
plain, thick, English notepaper, folded square, put in a square envelope, and sealed with red
sealing-wax which bears the imprint of the writer's coat of arms. No one can make any mistake
who uses such stationery as this in any part of the world. On such paper and in such form are
ambassadors' notes written; on such paper and in such style would the Princess Louise write
her notes.

However, there is no law against the monogram. Many ladies still prefer it, and always use
the paper which has become familiar to their friends. It is, however, a past rather than a
present fashion.

The plan of having all the note-paper marked with the address is an admirable one, for it effectually
reminds the person who receives the note where the answer should be sent--information of which
some ladies forget the importance, and which should always be written, if not printed, at the
head of a letter. It also gives a stylish finish to the appearance of the note-paper, is simple,
unpretending, and useful.

The ink should invariably be black. From the very superior, lasting qualities of a certain
purple fluid, which never became thick in the inkstand, certain ladies, a few years ago, used
the purple and lilac inks very much. But they are not elegant; they are not in fashion; the
best note-writers do not use them. The plain black ink, which gives the written characters
great distinctness, is the only fashionable medium.

Every lady should study to acquire an elegant, free, and educated hand; there is nothing so
useful, so sure to commend the writer everywhere, as such a chirography; while a cramped, poor,
slovenly, uneducated, unformed handwriting is sure to produce the impression upon the reader
that those qualities are more or less indicative of the writer's character. The angular English
hand is at present the fashion, although less legible and not more beautiful than the round
hand. We cannot enter into that great question as to whether or not handwriting is indicative
of character; but we hold that a person's notes are generally characteristic, and that a neat,
flowing, graceful hand, and a clean sheet, free from blots, are always agreeable to the eye.
The writer of notes, also, must carefully discriminate between the familiar note and the note
of ceremony, and should learn how to write both.

Custom demands that we begin all notes in the first person, with the formula of "My dear Mrs.
Smith," and that we close with the expressions, "Yours cordially," "Yours with much regard,"
etc. The laws of etiquette do not permit us to use numerals, as 3, 4, 5, but demand that we
write out three, four, five. No abbreviations are allowed in a note to a friend, as, "Sd be
glad to see you;" one must write out, "I should be glad to see you." The older letter-writers
were punctilious about writing the first word of the page below the last line of the page preceding
it. The date should follow the signing of the name.

A great and very common mistake existing among careless letter-writers is the confusion of
the first and third persons; as a child would write, "Miss Lucy Clark will be happy to come
to dinner, but I am going somewhere else." This is, of course, wildly ignorant and improper.

A note in answer to an invitation should be written in the third person, if the invitation
be in the third person. No abbreviations, no visible hurry, but an elaborate and finished ceremony
should mark such epistles. For instance, an acceptance of a dinner invitation must be written
in this form:

Mr. and Mrs. Cadogan have great pleasure in accepting the polite invitation of Mr. and Mrs.
Sutherland for dinner on the seventeenth inst., at seven o'clock. 18 Lombard Square. July sixth.

One lady in New York was known to answer a dinner invitation simply with the words, "Come with
pleasure." It is unnecessary to add that she was never invited again.

It is impossible to give persons minute directions as to the style of a note, for that must
be the outgrowth of years of careful education, training, and good mental powers. "To write
a pretty note" is also somewhat of a gift. Some young men and young girls find it very easy,
others can scarcely acquire the power. It is, however, absolutely necessary to strive for it.

In the first place, arrange your ideas, know what you want to say, and approach the business
of writing a note with a certain thoughtfulness. If it is necessary to write it hastily, summon
all your powers of mind, and try to make it brief, intelligible, and comprehensive.

Above all things, spell correctly. A word badly spelled stands out like a blot on a familiar
or a ceremonious note.

Do not send a blurred, blotted, slovenly note to any one; it will remain to call up a certain
prejudice against you in the mind of the recipient. The fashion is not now, as it once was,
imperative that a margin be left around the edge of the paper. People now write all over the
paper, and thus abolish a certain elegance which the old letters undoubtedly possessed. But
postage is a consideration, and all we can ask of the youthful letter-writers is that they
will not cross their letters. Plaid letters are the horror of all people who have not the eyes
of a hawk.

No letter or note should be written on ruled paper. To do so is both inelegant and unfashionable,
and savors of the school-room. Every young person should learn to write without lines.

The square cards are much used, and are quite large enough for the transmission of all that
a lady ordinarily wishes to say in giving or accepting an invitation. The day of the week and
the address are often printed on the card.

Square envelopes have also driven the long ones from the table of the elegant note-writer,
and the custom of closing all ceremonious notes with sealing-wax is still adhered to by the
most fastidious. It would be absurd, however, to say that it is nearly as common as the more
convenient habit of moistening the gummed envelope, but it is far more elegant, and every young
person should learn how to seal a note properly. To get a good impression from an engraved
stone seal, anoint it lightly with linseed-oil, to keep the wax from adhering; then dust it
with rouge powder to take off the gloss, and press it quickly, but firmly, on the melted wax.

Dates and numerical designations, such as the number of a house, may be written in Arabic figures,
but quantities should be expressed in words. Few abbreviations are respectful. A married lady
should always be addressed with the prefix of her husband's Christian name.

In this country, where we have no titles, it is the custom to abbreviate everything except
the title of "Reverend," which we always give to the clergy. But it would be better if we made
a practice of giving to each person his special title, and to all returned ambassadors, members
of Congress, and members of the Legislature the title of "Honorable." The Roman Catholic clergy
and the bishops of the Episcopal and Methodist churches should be addressed by their proper
titles, and a note should be, like a salutation, infused with respect. It honors the writer
and the person to whom it is written, while a careless letter may injure both.

CHAPTER XVIII. COSTLY THY HABIT.

We are often asked as to the appropriate dress to be worn at afternoon tea, at balls, at dinners,
christenings, etc.

Neatness and simple elegance should always characterize a lady, and after that she may be as
expensive as she pleases, if only at the right time. And we may say here that simplicity and
plainness characterize many a rich woman in a high place; and one can always tell a real lady
from an imitation one by her style of dress. Vulgarity is readily seen even under a costly
garment. There should be harmony and fitness, and suitability as to age and times and seasons.
Every one can avoid vulgarity and slovenliness; and in these days, when the fashions travel
by telegraph, one can be ... la mode.

French women have a genius for dress. An old or a middle-aged woman understands how to make
the best of herself in the assorting and harmonizing of colors; she never commits the mistake
of making herself too youthful. In our country we often see an old woman bedizened like a Figurante,
imagining that she shall gain the graces of youth by borrowing its garments. All this aping
of youthful dress "multiplies the wrinkles of old age, and makes its decay more conspicuous."

For balls in this country, elderly women are not expected to go in low neck unless they wish
to, so that the chaperon can wear a dress such as she would wear at a dinner--either a velvet
or brocade, cut in Pompadour shape, with a profusion of beautiful lace. All her ornaments should
match in character, and she should be as unlike her charge as possible. The young girls look
best in light gossamer material, in tulle, crepe, or tarlatan, in pale light colors or in white,
while an elderly, stout woman never looks so badly as in low-necked light-colored silks or
satins, Young women look well in natural flowers; elderly women, in feathers and jewelled head-dresses.

If elderly women with full figure wear low-necked dresses, a lace shawl or scarf, or something
of that sort, should be thrown over the neck; and the same advice might be given to thin and
scrawny figures. A lady writes to us as to what dress should be worn at her child's christening.
We should advise a high-necked dark silk; it may be of as handsome material as she chooses,
but it should be plain and neat in general effect. No woman should overdress in her own house;
it is the worst taste. All dress should correspond to the spirit of the entertainment given.
Light-colored silks, sweeping trains, bonnets very gay and garnished with feathers, lace parasols,
and light gloves, are fit for carriages at the races, but they are out of place for walking
in the streets. They may do for a wedding reception, but they are not fit for a picnic or an
excursion. Lawn parties, flower shows, and promenade concerts, should all be dressed for in
a gay, bright fashion; and the costumes for these and for yachting purposes may be as effective
and coquettish as possible; but for church, for readings, for a morning concert, for a walk,
or a morning call on foot, a tailor-made costume, with plain, dark hat, is the most to be admired.
Never wear a "dressy" bonnet in the street.

The costumes for picnics, excursions, journeys; and the sea-side should be of a strong fabric,
simple cut, and plain color. Things which will wash are better for our climate. Serge, tweed,
and piqu, are the best.

A morning dress for a late breakfast may be as luxurious as one pleases. The modern fashion
of imitation lace put on in great quantities over a foulard or a gingham, a muslin or a cotton,
made up prettily, is suitable for women of all ages; but an old "company dress" furbished up
to do duty at a watering-place is terrible, and not to be endured.

It has been the fashion this season to wear full-dress at weddings. The bride and her maids
have appeared with low neck and short sleeves in the cold morning air at several fashionable
churches. The groom at the same time wearing morning costume. It is an era of low necks. The
pendulum of fashion is swinging that way. We have spoken of this before, so only record the
fact that the low neck will prevail in many summer evening dresses as well as for morning weddings.

The very tight fashion of draping skirts should make all women very careful as to the way they
sit down. Some Frenchman said he could tell a gentleman by his walk; another has lately said
that he can tell a lady by the way she sits down. A woman is allowed much less freedom of posture
than a man. He may change his position as he likes, and loll or lounge, cross his legs, or
even nurse his foot if he pleases; but a woman must have grace and dignity; in every gesture
she must be "ladylike." Any one who has seen a great actress like Modjeska sit down will know
what an acquired grace it is.

A woman should remember that she "belongs to a sex which cannot afford to be grotesque." There
should never be rowdiness or carelessness.

The mania for extravagant dress on the stage, the pieces des robes, is said to be one of the
greatest enemies of the legitimate drama. The leading lady must have a conspicuous display
of elaborate gowns, the latest inventions of the modistes. In Paris these stage costumes set
the fashions, and bonnets and caps and gowns become individualized by their names. They look
very well on the wearers, but they look very badly on some elderly, plain, middle-aged, stout
woman who has adopted them.

Plain satins and velvet, rich and dark brocades, made by an artist, make any one look well.
The elderly woman should be able to move without effort or strain of any kind; a black silk
well made is indispensable; and even "a celebrity of a by-gone day" may be made to look handsome
by a judicious but not too brilliant toilette.

The dress called "complimentary mourning," which is rather a contradiction in terms, is now
made very elegant and dressy. Black and white in all the changes, and black bugles and bead
trimming, all the shades of lilac and of purple, are considered by the French as proper colors
and trimmings in going out of black; while for full mourning the English still preserve the
cap, weepers, and veil, the plain muslin collar and cuffs, the crape dress, large black silk
cloak, crape bonnet and veil.

Heavy, ostentatious, and expensive habiliments are often worn in mourning, but they are not
in the best taste. The plain-surfaced black silks are commendable.

For afternoon tea in this country the hostess generally wears a handsome high-necked gown,
often a combination of stamped or brocaded velvet, satin, and silk. She rarely wears what in
England is called a "tea-gown," which is a semi-loose garment. For visiting at afternoon teas
no change is made from the ordinary walking dress, unless the three or four ladies who help
receive come in handsome reception dresses. A skirt of light brocade with a dark velvet over-dress
is very much worn at these receptions, and if made by a French artist is a beautiful dress.
These dark velvets are usually made high, with a very rich lace ruff.

The high Medicean collar and pretty Medicean cap of velvet are in great favor with the middle-aged
ladies of the present day, and are a very becoming style of dress for the opera. The present
fashion of full dress at the opera, while it may not improve the music, certainly makes the
house look very pretty and stately.

Too many dresses are a mistake, even for an opulent woman. They get out of fashion, and excepting
for a girl going out to many balls they are entirely unnecessary. A girl who is dancing needs
to be perpetually renewed, for she should be always fresh, and the "wear and tear" of the cotillion
is enormous. There is nothing so poor as a dirty, faded, and patched-up ball-dress; the dancer
had better stay at home than wear such.

The fashion of sleeves should be considered. A stout woman looks very badly in a loose sleeve
of hanging lace which only reaches the elbow. It makes the arm look twice as large. She should
wear, for a thin sleeve, black lace to the wrist, with bands of velvet running down, to diminish
the size of the arm. All those lace sleeves to the elbow, with drops of gold, or steel trimming,
or jets, are very unbecoming; no one but the slight should wear them.

Tight lacing is also very unbecoming to those who usually adopt it--women of thirty-eight or
forty who are growing a little stout. In thus trussing themselves up they simply get an unbecoming
redness of the face, and are not the handsome, comfortable-looking creatures which Heaven intended
they should be. Two or three beautiful women well known in society killed themselves last year
by tight lacing. The effect of an inch less waist was not apparent enough to make this a wise
sacrifice of health and ease of breathing.

At a lady's lunch party, which is always an occasion for handsome dress, and where bonnets
are always worn, the faces of those who are too tightly dressed always show the strain by a
most unbecoming flush; and as American rooms are always too warm, the suffering must be enormous.

It is a very foolish plan, also, to starve one's self, or "bant," for a graceful thinness;
women only grow wrinkled, show crow's-feet under the eyes, and look less young than those who
let themselves alone.

A gorgeously dressed woman in the proper place is a fine sight. A well-dressed woman is she
who understands herself and her surroundings.

CHAPTER XIX. DRESSING FOR DRIVING.

No one who has seen the coaching parade in New York can have failed to observe the extraordinary
change which has come over the fashion in dress for this conspicuous occasion. Formerly ladies
wore black silks, or some dark or low-toned color in woollen or cotton or silk; and a woman
who should have worn a white dress on top of a coach would, ten years ago, have been thought
to make herself undesirably conspicuous.

Now the brightest colored and richest silks, orange, blue, pink, and lilac dresses, trimmed
with lace flounces, dinner dresses, in fact--all the charming confections of Worth or Piugat--are
freely displayed on the coach-tops, with the utmost graciousness, for every passer-by to comment
on. The lady on the top of a coach without a mantle appears very much as she would at a full-dress
ball or dinner. She then complains that sometimes ill-natured remarks float up from the gazers,
and that the ladies are insulted. The fashion began at Longchamps and at Ascot, where, especially
at the former place, a lady was privileged to sit in her victoria, with her lilac silk full
ruffled to the waist, in the most perfect and aristocratic seclusion. Then the fast set of
the Prince of Wales took it up, and plunged into rivalry in dressing for the public procession
through the London streets, where a lady became as prominent an object of observation as the
Lord Mayor's coach. It has been taken up and developed in America until it has reached a climax
of splendor and, if we may say so, inappropriateness, that is characteristic of the following
of foreign fashions in this country. How can a white satin, trimmed with lace, or an orange
silk, be the dress in which a lady should meet the sun, the rain, or the dust of a coaching
expedition? Is it the dress in which she feels that she ought to meet the gaze of a mixed assemblage
in a crowded hotel or in a much frequented thoroughfare? What change of dress can there be
left for the drawing-room?

We are glad to see that the Princess of Wales, whose taste seems to be as nearly perfect as
may be, has determined to set her pretty face against this exaggerated use of color. She appeared
recently in London, on top of a coach, in a suit of navy-blue flannel. Again, she and the Empress
of Austria are described as wearing dark, neat suits of drap d',t,, and also broadcloth dresses.
One can see the delicate figures and refined features of these two royal beauties in this neat
and inconspicuous dress, and, when they are contrasted with the flaunting pink and white and
lace and orange dresses of those who are not royal, how vulgar the extravagance in color becomes!

Our grandmothers travelled in broadcloth riding-habits, and we often pity them for the heat
and the distress which they must have endured in the heavy, high-fitting, long-sleeved garments;
yet we cannot but think they would have looked better on top of a coach than their granddaughters--who
should remember, when they complain of the rude remarks, that we have no aristocracy here whose
feelings the mob is obliged to respect, and that the plainer their dress the less apt they
will be to hear unpleasant epithets applied to them. In the present somewhat aggressive Amazonian
fashion, when a woman drives a man in her pony phaeton (he sitting several inches below her),
there is no doubt much audacity unintentionally suggested by a gay dress. A vulgar man, seeing
a lady in white velvet, Spanish lace, a large hat--in what he considers a "loud" dress--does
not have the idea of modesty or of refinement conveyed to his mind by the sight; he is very
apt to laugh, and to say something not wholly respectful. Then the lady says, "With how little
respect women are treated in large cities, or at Newport, or at Saratoga!" Were she more plainly
dressed, in a dark foulard or an inconspicuous flannel or cloth dress, with her hat simply
arranged, she would be quite as pretty and better fitted for the matter she has in hand, and
very much less exposed to invidious comment. Women dress plainly enough when tempting the "salt-sea
wave," and also when on horseback. Nothing could be simpler than the riding-habit, and yet
is there any dress so becoming? But on the coach they should not be too fine.

Of course, women can dress as they please, but if they please to dress conspicuously they must
be ready to take the consequences. A few years ago no lady would venture into the street unless
a mantle or a scarf covered her shoulders. It was a lady-like precaution. Then came the inglorious
days of the "tied-backs," a style of dress most unbecoming to the figure, and now happily no
more. This preposterous fashion had, no doubt, its influence on the manners of the age.

Better far, if women would parade their charms, the courtly dresses of those beauties of Bird-cage
Walk, by St. James's Park, where "Lady Betty Modish" was born--full, long, bouffant brocades,
hair piled high, long and graceful scarfs, and gloves reaching to the elbow. Even the rouge
and powder were a mask to hide the cheek which did or did not blush when bold eyes were fastened
upon it. Let us not be understood, however, as extolling these. The nineteenth-century beauty
mounts a coach with none of these aids to shyness. No suggestion of hiding any of her charms
occurs to her. She goes out on the box seat without cloak or shawl, or anything but a hat on
the back of her head and a gay parasol between her and a possible thunder-storm. These ladies
are not members of an acclimatization society. They cannot bring about a new climate. Do they
not suffer from cold? Do not the breezes go through them? Answer, all ye pneumonias and diphtherias
and rheumatisms!

There is no delicacy in the humor with which the funny papers and the caricaturists treat these
very exaggerated costumes. No delicacy is required. A change to a quieter style of dress would
soon abate this treatment of which so many ladies complain. Let them dress like the Princess
of Wales and the Empress of Austria, when in the conspicuous high-relief of the coach, and
the result will be that ladies, married or single, will not be subjected to the insults of
which so many of them complain, and of which the papers are full after every coaching parade.

Lady riders are seldom obliged to complain of the incivility of a passer-by. Theirs are modest
figures, and, as a general thing nowadays, they ride well. A lady can alight from her horse
and walk about in a crowded place without hearing an offensive word: she is properly dressed
for her exercise.

Nor, again, is a young lady in a lawn-tennis suit assailed by the impertinent criticisms of
a mixed crowd of by-standers. Thousands play at Newport, Saratoga, and other places of resort,
with thousands looking on, and no one utters a word of rebuke. The short flannel skirt and
close Jersey are needed for the active runner, and her somewhat eccentric appearance is condoned.
It is not considered an exhibition or a show, but a good, healthy game of physical exercise.
People feel an interest and a pleasure in it. It is like the old-fashioned merry-making of
the May-pole, the friendly jousts of neighbors on the common play-ground of the neighborhood,
with the dances under the walnut-trees of sunny Provence. The game is an invigorating one,
and even those who do not know it are pleased with its animation. We have hitherto neglected
that gymnastic culture which made the Greeks the graceful people they were, and which contributed
to the cultivation of the mind.

Nobody finds anything to laugh at in either of these costumes; but when people see a ball-dress
mounted high on a coach they are very apt to laugh at it; and women seldom come home from a
coaching parade without a tingling cheek and a feeling of shame because of some comment upon
their dress and appearance. A young lady drove up, last summer, to the Ocean House at Newport
in a pony phaeton, and was offended because a gentleman on the piazza said, "That girl has
a very small waist, and she means us to see it." Who was to blame? The young lady was dressed
in a very conspicuous manner: she had neither mantle nor jacket about her, and she probably
did mean that her waist should be seen.

There is a growing objection all over the world to the hour-glass shape once so fashionable,
and we ought to welcome it as the best evidence of a tendency towards a more sensible form
of dress, as well as one more conducive to health and the wholesome discharge of a woman's
natural and most important functions. But if a woman laces herself into a sixteen-inch belt,
and then clothes herself in brocade, satin, and bright colors, and makes herself conspicuous,
she should not object to the fact that men, seeing her throw aside her mantle, comment upon
her charms in no measured terms. She has no one to blame but herself.

We might add that by this over-dressing women deprive themselves of the advantage of contrast
in style. Lace, in particular, is for the house and for the full-dress dinner or ball. So are
the light, gay silks, which have no fitness of fold or of texture for the climbing of a coach.
If bright colors are desired, let ladies choose the merinos and nuns' veilings for coaching
dresses; or, better still, let them dress in dark colors, in plain and inconspicuous dresses,
which do not seem to defy both dust and sun and rain as well. On top of a coach they are far
more exposed to the elements than when on the deck of a yacht.

Nor, because the fast set of the Prince of Wales do so in London, is there any reason why American
women should appear on top of a coach dressed in red velvet and white satin. Let them remember
the fact that the Queen had placed Windsor Castle at the disposal of the Prince for his use
during Ascot week, but that when she learned that two somewhat conspicuous American beauties
were expected, she rescinded the loan and told the Prince to entertain his guests elsewhere.

CHAPTER XX. INCONGRUITIES OF DRESS.

We are all aware of the value of a costume, such as the dress of the Pompadour era: the Swiss
peasant's bodice, the Normandy cap, the faldetta of the Maltese, the Hungarian national dress,
the early English, the Puritan square-cut, the Spanish mantilla, the Roman scarf and white
cap--all these come before us; and as we mention each characteristic garment there steps out
on the canvas of memory a neat little figure, in which every detail from shoe to head-dress
is harmonious.

No one in his wildest dreams, however, could set out with the picture of a marquise, and top
it off with a Normandy cap. Nor could he put powder on the dark hair of the jaunty little Hungarian.
The beauty of these costumes is seen in each as a whole, and not in the parts separately. The
marquise must wear pink or blue, or some light color; she must have the long waist, the square-cut
corsage, the large hoop, the neat slipper, with rosette and high heel, the rouge and patches
to supplement her powdered hair, or she is no marquise.

The Swiss peasant must have the short skirt, the white chemisette, the black velvet bodice,
the cross and ribbon, the coarse shoes, and the head-dress of her canton; the Normandy peasant
her dark, striking dress, her high-heeled, gold-buckled shoe, and her white apron; the Hungarian
her neat, military scarlet jacket, braided with gold, her scant petticoat and military boot,
her high cap and feather. The dress of the English peasant, known now as the "Mother Hubbard"
hat and cloak, very familiar to the students of costumes as belonging to the countrywomen of
Shakspeare's time, demands the short, bunched-up petticoat and high-heeled, high-cut shoes
to make it perfect.

We live in an age, however, when fashion, irrespective of artistic principle, mixes up all
these costumes, and borrows a hat here and a shoe there, the effect of each garment, diverted
from its original intention, being lost.

If "all things by their season seasoned are," so is all dress (or it should be) seasonable
and comprehensive, congruous and complete. The one great secret of the success of the French
as artists and magicians of female costume is that they consider the entire figure and its
demands, the conditions of life and of luxury, the propriety of the substance, and the needs
of the wearer. A lady who is to tread a velvet carpet or a parqueted floor does not need a
wooden shoe; she needs a satin slipper or boot. Yet in the modern drawing-room we sometimes
see a young lady dancing in a heavy Balmoral boot which is only fitted for the bogs and heather
of a Scotch tramp. The presence of a short dress in a drawing-room, or of a long train in the
street, is part of the general incongruity of dress.

The use of the ulster and the Derby hat became apparent on English yachts, where women learned
to put themselves in the attitude of men, and very properly adopted the storm jib; but, if
one of those women had been told that she would, sooner or later, appear in this dress in the
streets of London, she would have been shocked.

In the days of the French emigration, when highborn ladies escaped on board friendly vessels
in the harbor of Honfleur, many of them had on the long-waisted and full-skirted overcoats
of their husbands, who preferred to shiver rather than endure the pain of seeing their wives
suffer from cold. These figures were observed by London tailors and dress-makers, and out of
them grew the English pelisse which afterwards came into fashion. On a stout Englishwoman the
effect was singularly absurd, and many of the early caricatures give us the benefit of this
incongruity; for although a small figure looks well in a pelisse, a stout one never does. The
Englishwoman who weighs two or three hundred pounds should wear a sacque, a shawl, or a loose
cloak, instead of a tight-waisted pelisse. However, we are diverging. The sense of the personally
becoming is still another branch of the great subject of dress. A velvet dress, for instance,
demands for its trimmings expensive and real lace. It should not be supplemented by Breton
or imitation Valenciennes. All the very pretty imitation laces are appropriate for cheap silks,
poplins, summer fabrics, or dresses of light and airy material; but if the substance of the
dress be of the richest, the lace should be in keeping with it.

So, also, in respect to jewellery: no cheap or imitation jewellery should be worn with an expensive
dress. It is as foreign to good taste as it would be for a man to dress his head and body in
the most fashionable of hats and coats, and his legs in white duck. There is incongruity in
the idea.

The same incongruity applies to a taste for which our countrymen have often been blamed--a
desire for the magnificent, A woman who puts on diamonds, real lace, and velvets in the morning
at a summer watering-place is decidedly incongruous. Far better be dressed in a gingham, with
Hamburg embroidery, and a straw hat with a handkerchief tied round it, now so pretty and so
fashionable. She is then ready for the ocean or for the mountain drive, the scramble or the
sail. Her boots should be strong, her gloves long and stout. She thus adapts her attire to
the occasion. In the evening she will have an opportunity for the delicate boot and the trailing
gauze or silk, or that deft combination of all the materials known as a "Worth Costume."

In buying a hat a woman should stand before a long Psyche glass, and see herself from head
to foot. Often a very pretty bonnet or hat which becomes the face is absolutely dreadful in
that wavy outline which is perceptible to those who consider the effect as a whole. All can
remember how absurd a large figure looked in the round poke hat and the delicate Fanchon bonnet,
and the same result is brought about by the round hat. A large figure should be topped by a
Gainsborough or Rubens hat, with nodding plumes. Then the effect is excellent and the proportions
are preserved.

Nothing can be more incongruous, again, than a long, slim, aesthetic figure with a head-gear
so disproportionately large as to suggest a Sandwich-Islander with his head-dress of mats.
The "aesthetic craze" has, however, brought in one improvement in costume. It is the epauletted
sleeve, which gives expansion to so many figures which are, unfortunately, too narrow. All
physiologists are speculating on the growing narrowness of chest in the Anglo-Saxon race. It
is singularly apparent in America. To remedy this, some ingenious dress-maker devised a little
puff at the top of the arm, which is most becoming. It is also well adapted to the "cloth of
gold" costume of the days of Francis I., which modern luxury so much affects. It is a Frond
sort of costume, this nineteenth-century dress, and can well borrow some of the festive features
of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, if they be not incongruous. We, like those rich
nobles and prosperous burghers, have lighted on piping times of peace; we have found a new
India of our own; our galleons come laden with the spoils of all countries; we are rich, and
we are able to wear velvet and brocade.

But we should be as true as they to the proprieties of dress. In the ancient burgher days the
richest citizen was not permitted to wear velvet; he had his own picturesque collar, his dark-cloth
suit, his becoming hat. He had no idea of aping the cian, with his long hat and feather. We
are all patricians; we can wear either the sober suit or the gay one; but do let us avoid incongruity.

A woman, in dressing herself for an evening of festivity, should remember that, from her ear-rings
to her fan, all must suggest and convey the idea of luxury. A wooden fan is very pretty in
the morning at a watering-place, but it will not do in the evening. None of the modern chftelaine
arrangements, however ornamental, are appropriate for evening use. The chftelaine meant originally
the chain on which the lady of the house wore her keys; therefore its early association of
usefulness remains: it is not luxurious in intention, however much modern fashion may have
adorned it.

Many a fashion has, it is true, risen from a low estate. The Order of the Garter tells of a
monarch's caprice; the shoe-buckle and the horseshoe have crept up into the highest rank of
ornaments. But as it takes three generations to make a gentleman, so does it take several decades
to give nobility to low-born ornament. We must not try to force things.

A part of the growing and sad incongruity of modern dress appears in the unavoidable awkwardness
of a large number of bouquets. A belle cannot leave the insignia of belledom at home, nor can
she be so unkind as to carry Mr. Smith's flowers and ignore Mr. Brown's; so she appears with
her arms and hands full, to the infinite detriment of her dress and general effect. Some arrangement
might be devised whereby such trophies could be dragged in the train of the high-priestess
of fashion.

A little reading, a little attention to the study of costume (a beautiful study, by-the-way),
would soon teach a young woman to avoid the incongruous in dress. Some people have taste as
a natural gift: they know how to dress from a consultation with their inner selves. Others,
alas! are entirely without it. The people who make hats and coats and dresses for us are generally
without any comprehension of the history of dress. To them the hat of the Roundhead and that
of the Cavalier have the same meaning. To all people of taste and reading, however, they are
very different, and all artists know that the costumes which retain their hold on the world
have been preferred and have endured because of their fitness to conditions of climate and
the grace and ease with which they were worn.

CHAPTER XXI. ETIQUETTE OF MOURNING.

There is no possibility of touching upon the subject of death and burial, and the conditions
under which funerals should be conducted, without hurting some one's feelings. The Duke of
Sutherland's attempt in England to do away with the dreadful shape which causes a shudder to
all who have lost a friend--that of the coffin--was called irreverent, because he suggested
that the dead should be buried in wicker-work baskets, with fern-leaves for shrouds, so that
the poor clay might the more easily return to mother earth. Those who favor cremation suffer
again a still more frantic disesteem; and yet every one deplores the present gloomy apparatus
and dismal observances of our occasions of mourning.

Death is still to the most Christian and resigned heart a very terrible fact, a shock to all
who live, and its surroundings, do what we will, are painful. "I smell the mould above the
rose," says Hood, in his pathetic lines on his daughter's death. Therefore, we have a difficulty
to contend with in the wearing of black, which is of itself, to begin with, negatory of our
professed belief in the resurrection. We confess the logic of despair when we drape ourselves
in its gloomy folds. The dress which we should wear, one would think, might be blue, the color
of the sky, or white, in token of light which the redeemed soul has reached.

Custom, which makes slaves of us all, has decreed that we shall wear black, as a mark of respect
to those we have lost, and as a shroud for ourselves, protesting against the gentle ministration
of light and cheerfulness with which our Lord ever strives to reach us. This is one side of
the question; but, again, one word as to its good offices. A mourning dress does protect a
woman while in deepest grief against the untimely gayety of a passing stranger. It is a wall,
a cell of refuge. Behind a black veil she can hide herself as she goes out for business or
recreation, fearless of any intrusion.

The black veil, on the other hand, is most unhealthy: it harms the eyes and it injures the
skin. As it rubs against the nose and forehead it is almost certain to cause abrasions, and
often makes an annoying sore. To the eyes enfeebled by weeping it is sure to be dangerous,
and most oculists now forbid it.

The English, from whom we borrow our fashion in funeral matters, have a limitation provided
by social law which is a useful thing. They now decree that crape shall only be worn six months,
even for the nearest relative, and that the duration of mourning shall not exceed a year. A
wife's mourning for her husband is the most conventionally deep mourning allowed, and every
one who has seen an English widow will agree that she makes a "hearse" of herself. Bombazine
and crape, a widow's cap; and a long; thick veil--such is the modern English idea. Some widows
even have the cap made of black cr^pe lisse, but it is generally of white. In this country
a widow's first mourning dresses are covered almost entirely with crape, a most costly and
disagreeable material, easily ruined by the dampness and dust--a sort of penitential and self-mortifying
dress, and very ugly and very expensive. There are now, however, other and more agreeable fabrics
which also bear the dead black, lustreless look which is alone considered respectful to the
dead, and which are not so costly as crape, or so disagreeable to wear. The Henrietta cloth
and imperial serges are chosen for heavy winter dresses, while for those of less weight are
tamise cloth, Bayonnaise, grenadine, nuns' veiling, and the American silk.

Our mourning usages are not overloaded with what may be called the pomp, pride, and circumstance
of woe which characterize English funerals. Indeed, so overdone are mourning ceremonies in
England--what with the hired mutes, the nodding plumes, the costly coffin, and the gifts of
gloves and bands and rings, etc.--that Lady Georgiana Milnor, of Nunappleton, in York, a great
friend of the Archbishop, wrote a book against the abuse, ordered her own body to be buried
in a pine coffin, and forbade her servants and relatives to wear mourning. Her wishes were
carried out to the letter. A black, cloth-covered casket with silver mountings is considered
in the best taste, and the pall-bearers are given at most a white scarf and a pair of black
gloves. Even this is not always done. At one time the traffic in these returned bands and gloves
was quite a fortune to the undertaker. Mourning is very expensive, and often costs a family
more than they can well afford; but it is a sacrifice that even the poorest gladly make, and
those who can least afford it often wear the best mourning, so tyrannical is custom. They consider
it--by what process of reasoning no one can understand, unless it be out of a hereditary belief
that we hold in the heathen idea of propitiating the manes of the departed--an act of disrespect
to the memory of the dead if the living are not clad in gloomy black.

However, our business is with the etiquette of mourning. Widows wear deep mourning, consisting
of woollen stuffs and crape, for about two years, and sometimes for life, in America. Children
wear the same for parents for one year, and then lighten it with black silk, trimmed with crape.
Half-mourning gradations of gray, purple, or lilac have been abandoned, and, instead, combinations
of black and white are used. Complimentary mourning is black silk without crape. The French
have three grades of mourning--deep, ordinary, and half mourning. In deep mourning, woollen
cloths only are worn; in ordinary mourning, silk and woollen; in half mourning, gray and violet.
An American lady is always shocked at the gayety and cheerfulness of French mourning. In France,
etiquette prescribes mourning for a husband for one year and six weeks--that is, six months
of deep mourning, six of ordinary, and six weeks of half mourning. For a wife, a father, or
a mother, six months--three deep and three half mourning; for a grandparent, two months and
a half of slight mourning; for a brother or a sister, two months, one of which is in deep mourning;
for an uncle or an aunt, three weeks of ordinary black. In America, with no fixity of rule,
ladies have been known to go into deepest mourning for their own relatives or those of their
husbands, or for people, perhaps, whom they have never seen, and have remained as gloomy monuments
of bereavement for seven or ten years, constantly in black; then, on losing a child or a relative
dearly loved, they have no extremity of dress left to express the real grief which fills their
lives--no deeper black to go into. This complimentary mourning should be, as in the French
custom, limited to two or three weeks. The health of a delicate child has been known to be
seriously affected by the constant spectacle of his mother in deep mourning.

The period of a mourner's retirement from the world has been very much shortened of late. For
one year no formal visiting is undertaken, nor is there any gayety in the house. Black is often
worn for a husband or wife two years, for parents one year, and for brothers and sisters one
year; a heavy black is lightened after that period. Ladies are beginning to wear a small black
gauze veil over the face, and are in the habit of throwing the heavy crape veil back over the
hat. It is also proper to wear a quiet black dress when going to a funeral, although this is
not absolutely necessary.

Friends should call on the bereaved family within a month, not expecting, of course, to see
them. Kind notes expressing sympathy are most welcome to the afflicted from intimate friends,
and gifts of flowers, or any testimonial of sympathy, are thoughtful and appropriate. Cards
and note-paper are now put into mourning by those who desire to express conventionally their
regret for the dead; but very broad borders of black look like ostentation, and are in undoubted
bad taste. No doubt all these things are proper enough in their way, but a narrow border of
black tells the story of loss as well as an inch of coal-black gloom. The fashion of wearing
handkerchiefs which are made with a two-inch square of white cambric and a four-inch border
of black may well be deprecated. A gay young widow at Washington was once seen dancing at a
reception, a few months after the death of her soldier husband, with a long black veil on,
and holding in her black-gloved hand one of these handkerchiefs, which looked as if it had
been dipped in ink. "She should have dipped it in blood," said a by-stander. Under such circumstances
we learn how much significance is to be attached to the grief expressed by a mourning veil.

The mourning which soldiers, sailors, and courtiers wear has something pathetic and effective
about it. A flag draped with crape, a gray cadet-sleeve with a black band, or a long piece
of crape about the left arm of a senator, a black weed on a hat, these always touch us. They
would even appear to suggest that the lighter the black, the more fully the feeling of the
heart is expressed. If we love our dead, there is no danger that we shall forget them. "The
customary suit of solemn black" is not needed when we can wear it in our hearts.

For lighter mourning jet is used on silk, and there is no doubt that it makes a very handsome
dress. It is a singular fact that there is a certain comfort to some people in wearing very
handsome black. Worth, on being asked to dress an American widow whom he had never seen, sent
for her photograph, for he said that he wished to see "whether she was the sort of woman who
would relish a becoming black."

Very elegant dresses are made with jet embroidery on crape--the beautiful soft French crape--but
lace is never "mourning." Even the French, who have very light ideas on the subject, do not
trim the most ornamental dresses with lace during the period of even second mourning, except
when they put the woolen yak lace on a cloth cloak or mantilla. During a very dressy half mourning,
however, black lace may be worn on white silk; but this is questionable. Diamond ornaments
set in black enamel are allowed even in the deepest mourning, and also pearls set in black.
The initials of the deceased, in black brilliants or pearls, are now set in lockets and sleeve-buttons,
or pins. Gold ornaments are never worn in mourning.

White silk, embroidered with black jet, is used in the second stage of court mourning, with
black gloves. Deep red is deemed in England a proper alternative for mourning black, if the
wearer be called upon to go to a wedding during the period of the first year's mourning. At
St. George's, Hanover Square, therefore, one may often see a widow assisting at the wedding
of a daughter or a son, and dressed in a superb red brocade or velvet, which, directly the
wedding is over, she will discard for her solemn black.

The question of black gloves is one which troubles all who are obliged to wear mourning through
the heat of summer. The black kid glove is painfully warm and smutty, disfiguring the hand
and soiling the handkerchief and face. The Swedish kid glove is now much more in vogue, and
the silk glove is made with such neatness and with such a number of buttons that it is equally
stylish, and much cooler and more agreeable.

Mourning bonnets are worn rather larger than ordinary bonnets. In England they are still made
of the old-fashioned cottage shape, and are very useful in carrying the heavy veil and in shading
the face. The Queen has always worn this style of bonnet. Her widow's cap has never been laid
aside, and with her long veil of white falling down her back when she appears at court, it
makes the most becoming dress that she has ever worn. For such a grief as hers there is something
appropriate and dignified in her adherence to the mourning-dress. It fully expresses her sad
isolation: for a queen can have no near friends. The whole English nation has sympathized with
her grief, and commended her black dress. Nor can we criticise the grief which causes a mother
to wear mourning for her children. If it be any comfort to her to wrap herself in crape, she
ought to do so. The world has no right to quarrel with those who prefer to put ashes on their
heads.

But for the mockery, the conventional absurdities, and the affectations which so readily lend
themselves to caricature in the name of mourning, no condemnation can be too strong. There
is a ghoul-like ghastliness in talking about "ornamental," or "becoming," or "complimentary"
mourning. People of sense, of course, manage to dress without going to extremities in either
direction. We see many a pale-faced mourner whose quiet mourning-dress tells the story of bereavement
without giving us the painful feeling that crape is too thick, or bombazine too heavy, for
comfort. Exaggeration is to be deprecated in mourning as in everything.

The discarding of mourning should be effected by gradations. It shocks persons of good taste
to see a light-hearted young widow jump into colors, as if she had been counting the hours.
If black is to be dispensed with, let its retirement be slowly and gracefully marked by quiet
costumes, as the feeling of grief, yielding to the kindly influence of time, is shaded off
into resignation and cheerfulness. We do not forget our dead, but we mourn for them with a
feeling which no longer partakes of anguish.

Before a funeral the ladies of a family see no one but the most intimate friends. The gentlemen,
of course, must see the clergyman and officials who manage the ceremony. It is now the almost
universal practice to carry the remains to a church, where the friends of the family can pay
the last tribute of respect without crowding into a private house. Pallbearers are invited
by note, and assemble at the house of the deceased, accompanying the remains, after the ceremonies
at the church, to their final resting-place. The nearest lady friends seldom go to the church
or to the grave. This is, however, entirely a matter of feeling, and they can go if they wish.
After the funeral only the members of the family return to the house, and it is not expected
that a bereaved wife or mother will see any one other than the members of her family for several
weeks.

The preparations for a funeral in the house are committed to the care of an undertaker, who
removes the furniture from the drawing-room, filling all the space possible with camp-stools.
The clergyman reads the service at the head of the coffin, the relatives being grouped around.
The body, if not disfigured by disease, is often dressed in the clothes worn in life, and laid
in an open casket, as if reposing on a sofa, and all friends are asked to take a last look.
It is, however, a somewhat ghastly proceeding to try to make the dead look like the living.
The body of a man is usually dressed in black. A young boy is laid out in his every-day clothes,
but surely the young of both sexes look more fitly clad in the white cashmere robe.

The custom of decorating the coffin with flowers is a beautiful one, but has been, in large
cities, so overdone, and so purely a matter of money, that now the request is generally made
that no flowers be sent.

In England a lady of the court wears, for her parent, crape and bombazine (or its equivalent
in any lustreless cloth) for three months. She goes nowhere during that period. After that
she wears lustreless silks, trimmed with crape and jet, and goes to court if commanded. She
can also go to concerts without violating etiquette, or to family weddings. After six months
she again reduces her mourning to black and white, and can attend the "drawing-room" or go
to small dinners. For a husband the time is exactly doubled, but in neither case should the
widow be seen at a ball, a theatre, or an opera until after one year has elapsed.

In this country no person in mourning for a parent, a child, a brother, or a husband, is expected
to be seen at a concert, a dinner, a party, or at any other place of public amusement, before
three months have passed, After that one may be seen at a concert. But to go to the opera,
or a dinner, or a party, before six months have elapsed, is considered heartless and disrespectful.
Indeed, a deep mourning-dress at such a place is an unpleasant anomaly. If one choose, as many
do, not to wear mourning, then they can go unchallenged to any place of amusement, for they
have asserted their right to be independent; but if they put on mourning they must respect
its etiquette, By many who sorrow deeply, and who regard the crape and solemn dress as a mark
of respect to the dead, it is deemed almost a sin for a woman to go into the street, to drive,
or to walk, for two years, without a deep crape veil over her face. It is a common remark of
the censorious that a person who lightens her mourning before that time "did not care much
for the deceased;" and many people hold the fact that a widow or an orphan wears her crape
for two years to be greatly to her credit.

Of course, no one can say that a woman should not wear mourning all her life if she choose,
but it is a serious question whether in so doing she does not injure the welfare and happiness
of the living. Children, as we have said, are often strangely affected by this shrouding of
their mothers, and men always dislike it.

Common-sense and common decency, however, should restrain the frivolous from engaging much
in the amusements and gayeties of life before six months have passed after the death of any
near friend. If they pretend to wear black at all, they cannot be too scrupulous in respecting
the restraint which it imposes.

CHAPTER XXII. MOURNING AND FUNERAL USAGES.

Nothing in our country is more undecided in the public mind than the etiquette of mourning.
It has not yet received that hereditary and positive character which makes the slightest departure
from received custom so reprehensible in England. We have not the mutes, or the nodding feathers
of the hearse, that still form part of the English funeral equipage; nor is the rank of the
poor clay which travels to its last home illustrated by the pomp and ceremony of its departure.
Still, in answer to some pertinent questions, we will offer a few desultory remarks, beginning
with the end, as it were--the return of the mourner to the world.

When persons who have been in mourning wish to re-enter society, they should leave cards on
all their friends and acquaintances, as an intimation that they are equal to the paying and
receiving of calls. Until this intimation is given, society will not venture to intrude upon
the mourner's privacy. In eases where cards of inquiry have been left, with the words "To inquire"
written on the top of the card, these cards should be replied to by cards with "Thanks for
kind inquiries" written upon them; but if cards for inquiry had not been left, this form can
be omitted.

Of course there is a kind of complimentary mourning which does not necessitate seclusion--that
which is worn out of respect to a husband's relative whom one may never have seen. But no one
wearing a heavy crape veil should go to a gay reception, a wedding, or a theatre; the thing
is incongruous. Still less should mourning prevent one from taking proper recreation: the more
the heart aches, the more should one try to gain cheerfulness and composure, to hear music,
to see faces which one loves: this is a duty, not merely a wise and sensible rule. Yet it is
well to have some established customs as to visiting and dress in order that the gay and the
heartless may in observing them avoid that which shocks every one--an appearance of lack of
respect to the memory of the dead--that all society may move on in decency and order, which
is the object and end of the study of etiquette.

A heartless wife who, instead of being grieved at the death of her husband, is rejoiced at
it, should be taught that society will not respect her unless she pays to the memory of the
man whose name she bears that "homage which vice pays to virtue," a commendable respect to
the usages of society in the matter of mourning and of retirement from the world. Mourning
garments have this use, that they are a shield to the real mourner, and they are often a curtain
of respectability to the person who should be a mourner but is not. We shall therefore borrow
from the best English and American authorities what we believe to be the most recent usages
in the etiquette of mourning.

As for periods of mourning, we are told that a widow's mourning should last eighteen months,
although in England it is somewhat lightened in twelve. For the first six months the dress
should be of crape cloth, or Henrietta cloth covered entirely with crape, collar and cuffs
of white crape, a crape bonnet with a long crape veil, and a widow's cap of white crape if
preferred. In America, however, widows' caps are not as universally worn as in England. Dull
black kid gloves are worn in first mourning; after that gants de Suede or silk gloves are proper,
particularly in summer. After six months' mourning the crape can be removed, and grenadine,
copeau fringe, and dead trimmings used, if the smell of crape is offensive, as it is to some
people. After twelve months the widow's cap is left off, and the heavy veil is exchanged for
a lighter one, and the dress can be of silk grenadine, plain black gros-grain, or crape-trimmed
cashmere with jet trimmings, and cr^pe lisse about the neck and sleeves.

All kinds of black fur and seal-skin are worn in deep mourning.

Mourning for a father or mother should last one year. During half a year should be worn Henrietta
cloth or serge trimmed with crape, at first with black tulle at the wrists and neck. A deep
veil is worn at the back of the bonnet, but not over the head or face like the widow's veil,
which covers the entire person when down. This fashion is very much objected to by doctors,
who think many diseases of the eye come by this means, and advise for common use thin nun's-veiling
instead of crape, which sheds its pernicious dye into the sensitive nostrils, producing catarrhal
disease as well as blindness and cataract of the eye. It is a thousand pities that fashion
dictates the crape veil, but so it is. It is the very banner of woe, and no one has the courage
to go without it. We can only suggest to mourners wearing it that they should pin a small veil
of black tulle over the eyes and nose, and throw back the heavy crape as often as possible,
for health's sake.

Jet ornaments alone should be worn for eighteen months, unless diamonds set as mementoes are
used. For half-mourning, a bonnet of silk or chip, trimmed with crape and ribbon. Mourning
flowers, and cr^pe lisse at the hands and wrists, lead the way to gray, mauve, and white-and-black
toilettes after the second year.

Mourning for a brother or sister may be the same; for a stepfather or stepmother the same;
for grandparents the same; but the duration may be shorter. In England this sort of respectful
mourning only lasts three months.

Mourning for children should last nine months, The first three the dress should be crape-trimmed,
the mourning less deep than that for a husband. No one is ever ready to take off mourning;
therefore these rules have this advantage--they enable the friends around a grief-stricken
mother to tell her when is the time to make her dress more cheerful, which she is bound to
do for the sake of the survivors, many of whom are perhaps affected for life by seeing a mother
always in black. It is well for mothers to remember this when sorrow for a lost child makes
all the earth seem barren to them.

We are often asked whether letters of condolence should be written on black-edged paper. Decidedly
not, unless the writer is in black. The telegraph now flashes messages of respect and sympathy
across sea and land like a voice from the heart. Perhaps it is better than any other word of
sympathy, although all who can should write to a bereaved person. There is no formula possible
for these letters; they must be left to the individual's good taste, and perhaps the simplest
and least conventional are the best. A card with a few words pencilled on it has often been
the best letter of condolence.

In France a long and deeply edged mourning letter or address, called a faire part, is sent
to every one known to the family to advise them of a death. In this country that is not done,
although some mention of the deceased is generally sent to friends in Europe who would not
otherwise hear of the death.

Wives wear mourning for the relatives of their husbands precisely as they would for their own,
as would husbands for the relatives of their wives. Widowers wear mourning for their wives
two years in England; here only one year. Widowers go into society at a much earlier date than
widows, it being a received rule that all gentlemen in mourning for relatives go into society
very much sooner than ladies.

Ladies of the family attend the funeral of a relative if they are able to do so, and wear their
deepest mourning. Servants are usually put in mourning for the head of the family--sometimes
for any member of it. They should wear a plain black livery and weeds on their hats; the inside
lining of the family carriage should also be of black.

The period of mourning for an aunt or uncle or cousin is of three months' duration, and that
time at least should elapse before the family go out or into gay company, or are seen at theatres
or operas, etc.

We now come to the saddest part of our subject, the consideration of the dead body, so dear,
yet so soon to leave us; so familiar, yet so far away--the cast-off dress, the beloved clay.
Dust to dust, ashes to ashes!

As for the coffin, it is simpler than formerly; and, while lined with satin and made with care,
it is plain on the outside--black cloth, with silver plate for the name, and silver handles,
being in the most modern taste. There are but few of the "trappings of woe." At the funeral
of General Grant, twice a President, and regarded as the saviour of his country, there was
a gorgeous catafalque of purple velvet, but at the ordinary funeral there are none of these
trappings. If our richest citizen were to die to-morrow, he would probably be buried plainly.
Yet it is touching to see with what fidelity the poorest creature tries to "bury her dead dacent."
The destitute Irish woman begs for a few dollars for this sacred duty, and seldom in vain.
It is a duty for the rich to put down ostentation in funerals, for it is an expense which comes
heavily on those who have poverty added to grief.

In dressing the remains for the grave, those of a man are usually "clad in his habit as he
lived." For a woman, tastes differ: a white robe and cap, not necessarily shroudlike, are decidedly
unexceptionable. For young persons and children white cashmere robes and flowers are always
most appropriate.

The late cardinal, whose splendid obsequies and whose regal "lying in state" were in keeping
with his high rank and the gorgeous ceremonial of his Church, was strongly opposed to the profuse
use of flowers at funerals, and requested that none be sent to deck his lifeless clay. He was
a modest and humble man, and always on the right side in these things; therefore let his advice
prevail. A few flowers placed in the dead hand, perhaps a simple wreath, but not those unmeaning
memorials which have become to real mourners such sad perversities of good taste, such a misuse
of flowers. Let those who can afford to send such things devote the money to the use of poor
mothers who cannot afford to buy a coffin for a dead child or a coat for a living one.

In the course of a month after a death all friends of the deceased are expected to leave cards
on the survivors, and it is discretionary whether these be written on or not. These cards should
be carefully preserved, that, when the mourner is ready to return to the world, they may be
properly acknowledged.

CHAPTER XXIII. LETTERS OF CONDOLENCE.

Probably no branch of the epistolary art has ever given to friendly hearts so much perplexity
as that which has to do with writing to friends in affliction. It is delightful to sit down
and wish anybody joy; to overflow with congratulatory phrases over a favorable bit of news;
to say how glad you are that your friend is engaged or married, or has inherited a fortune,
has written a successful book, or has painted an immortal picture. Joy opens the closet of
language, and the gems of expression are easily found; but the fountain of feeling being chilled
by the uncongenial atmosphere of grief, by the sudden horror of death, or the more terrible
breath of dishonor or shame, or even by the cold blast of undeserved misfortune, leaves the
individual sympathizer in a mood of perplexity and of sadness which is of itself a most discouraging
frame of mind for the inditing of a letter.

And yet we sympathize with our friend: we desire to tell him so. We want to say, "My friend,
your grief is my grief; nothing can hurt you that does not hurt me. I cannot, of course, enter
into all your feelings, but to stand by and see you hurt, and remain unmoved myself, is impossible."
All this we wish to say; but how shall we say it that our words may not hurt him a great deal
more than he is hurt already? How shall we lay our hand so tenderly on that sore spot that
we may not inflict a fresh wound? How can we say to a mother who bends over a fresh grave,
that we regret the loss she has sustained in the death of her child? Can language measure the
depth, the height, the immensity, the bitterness of that grief? What shall we say that is not
trite and commonplace--even unfeeling? Shall we be pagan, and say that "whom the gods love
die young," or Christian, and remark that "God does not willingly afflict the children of men?"
She has thought of that, she has heard it, alas! often before--but too often, as she thinks now.

Shall we tell her what she has lost--how good, how loving, how brave, how admirable was the
spirit which has just left the flesh? Alas! how well she knows that! How her tears well up
as she remembers the silent fortitude, the heroic patience under the pain that was to kill!
Shall we quote ancient philosophers and modern poets? They have all dwelt at greater or less
length upon death and the grave. Or shall we say, in simple and unpremeditated words, the thoughts
which fill our own minds?

The person who has to write this letter may be a ready writer, who finds fit expression at
the point of his pen, and who overflows with the language of consolation--such a one needs
no advice; but to the hundreds who do need help we would say that the simplest expressions
are the best. A distant friend, upon one of these occasions, wrote a letter as brief as brief
might be, but of its kind altogether perfect. It ran thus: "I have heard of your great grief,
and I send you a simple pressure of the hand." Coming from a gay and volatile person, it had
for the mourner great consolation; pious quotations, and even the commonplaces of condolence,
would have seemed forced. Undoubtedly those persons do us great good, or they wish to, who
tell us to be resigned--that we have deserved this affliction; that we suffer now, but that
our present sufferings are nothing to what our future sufferings shall be; that we are only
entering the portals of agony, and that every day will reveal to us the magnitude of our loss.
Such is the formula which certain persons use, under the title of "letters of condolence."
It is the wine mixed with gall which they gave our Lord to drink; and as He refused it, so
may we. There are, no doubt, persons of a gloomy and a religious temperament combined who delight
in such phrases; who quote the least consolatory of the texts of Scripture; who roll our grief
as a sweet morsel under their tongues; who really envy the position of chief mourner as one
of great dignity and considerable consequence; who consider crape and bombazine as a sort of
royal mantle conferring distinction. There are many such people in the world. Dickens and Anthony
Trollope have put them into novels--solemn and ridiculous Malvolios; they exist in nature,
in literature, and in art. It adds a new terror to death when we reflect that such persons
will not fail to make it the occasion of letter-writing.

But those who write to us strongly and cheerfully, who do not dwell so much on our grief as
on our remaining duties--they are the people who help us. To advise a mourner to go out into
the sun, to resume his work, to help the poor, and, above all, to carry on the efforts, to
emulate the virtues of the deceased--this is comfort. It is a very dear and consoling thing
to a bereaved friend to hear the excellence of the departed extolled, to read and re-read all
of the precious testimony which is borne by outsiders to the saintly life ended--and there
are few so hard-hearted as not to find something good to say of the dead: it is the impulse
of human nature; it underlies all our philosophy and our religion; it is the "stretching out
of a hand," and it comforts the afflicted. But what shall we say to those on whom disgrace
has laid its heavy, defiling hand? Is it well to write to them at all? Shall we not be mistaken
for those who prowl like jackals round a grave, and will not our motives be misunderstood?
Is not sympathy sometimes malice in disguise? Does not the phrase "I am so sorry for you!"
sometimes sound like "I am so glad for myself?" Undoubtedly it does; but a sincere friend should
not be restrained, through fear that his motive may be mistaken, from saying that he wishes
to bear some part of the burden. Let him show that the unhappy man is in his thoughts, that
he would like to help, that he would be glad to see him, or take him out, or send him a book,
or at least write him a letter. Such a wish as this will hurt no one.

Philosophy--some quaint and dry bit of old Seneca, or modern Rochefoucauld--has often helped
a struggling heart when disgrace, deserved or undeserved, has placed the soul in gyves of iron.
Sympathetic persons, of narrow minds and imperfect education, often have the gift of being
able to say most consolatory things. Irish servants, for instance, rarely hurt the feelings
of a mourner. They burst out in the language of Nature, and, if it is sometimes grotesque,
it is almost always comforting. It is the educated and conscientious person who finds the writing
of a letter of condolence difficult.

Perhaps much of our dread of death is the result of a false education, and the wearing of black
may after all be a mistake. At the moment when we need bright colors, fresh flowers, sunshine,
and beauty, we hide ourselves behind crape veils and make our garments heavy with ashes; but
as it is conventional it is in one way a protection, and is therefore proper. No one feels
like varying the expressions of a grief which has the Anglo-Saxon seriousness in it, the Scandinavian
melancholy of a people from whom Nature hides herself behind a curtain of night. To the sunny
and graceful Greek the road of the dead was the Via Felice; it was the happy way, the gate
of flowers; the tombs were furnished as the houses were, with images of the beloved, and the
veriest trifles which the deceased had loved. One wonders, as the tomb of a child is opened
on the road out of Tanagra, near Athens, and the toys and hobby-horse and little shoes are
found therein, if, after all, that father and mother were not wiser than we who, like Constance,
"stuff out his vacant garments with his form." Is there not something quite unenlightened in
the persistence with which we connect death with gloom?

Our correspondents often ask us when a letter of condolence should be written? As soon as possible.
Do not be afraid to intrude on any grief, It is generally a welcome distraction; to even the
most morbid mourner, to read a letter; and those who are So stunned by grief as not to be able
to write or to read will always have some willing soul near them who will read and answer for them.

The afflicted, however, should never be expected to answer letters, They can and should receive
the kindest and the most prompt that their friends can indite, Often a phrase on which the
writer has built no hope may be the airy-bridge over which the sorrowing soul returns slowly
and blindly to peace and resignation. Who would miss the chance, be it one in ten thousand,
of building such a bridge? Those who have suffered and been strong, those whom we love and
respect, those who have the honest faith in human nature which enables them to read aright
the riddle of this strange world, those who by faith walk over burning ploughshares and dread
no evil, those are the people who write the best letters of condolence. They do not dwell on
our grief, or exaggerate it, although they are evidently writing to us with a lump in the throat
and a tear in the eye--they do not say so, but we feel it. They tell us of the certain influence
of time, which will change our present grief into our future joy. They say a few beautiful
words of the friend whom we have lost, recount their own loss in him in a few fitting words
of earnest sympathy which may carry consolation, if only by the wish of the writer. They beg
of us to be patient. God has brought life and immortality to light through death, and to those
whom "he has thought worthy to endure," this thought may ever form the basis of a letter of
condolence.

"Give me," said the dying Herder, "a great thought, that I may console myself with that." It
is a present of no mean value, a great thought; and if every letter of condolence could bear
with it one broad phrase of honest sympathy it would be a blessed instrumentality for carrying
patience and resignation, peace and comfort, into those dark places where the sufferer is eating
his heart out with grief, or where Rachel "weeps for her children, and will not be comforted,
because they are not."

CHAPTER XXIV. CHAPERONS AND THEIR DUTIES.

It is strange that the Americans, so prone to imitate British customs, have been slow to adopt
that law of English society which pronounces a chaperon an indispensable adjunct of every unmarried
young woman.

The readers of "Little Dorrit" will recall the exceedingly witty sketch of Mrs. General, who
taught her young ladies to form their mouths into a lady-like pattern by saying "papa, potatoes,
prunes, and prism." Dickens knew very little of society, and cared very little for its laws,
and his ladies and gentlemen were pronounced in England to be as great failures as his Little
Nells and Dick Swivellers were successes; but he recognized the universality of chaperons.
His portrait of Mrs. General (the first luxury which Mr. Dorrit allowed himself after inheriting
his fortune) shows how universal is the necessity of a chaperon in English society, and on
the Continent, to the proper introduction of young ladies, and how entirely their "style" depends
upon their chaperon. Of course Dickens made her funny, of course he made her ridiculous, but
he put her there. An American novelist would not have thought it worth mentioning, nor would
an American papa with two motherless daughters have thought it necessary, if he travelled with
them, to have a chaperon for his daughters.

Of course, a mother is the natural chaperon of her daughters, and if she understand her duties
and the usages of society there is nothing further to be said. But the trouble is that many
American mothers are exceedingly careless on this point. We need not point to the wonderful
Mrs. Miller--Daisy's mother--in Henry James, Jr.'s, photograph of a large class of American
matrons--a woman who loved her daughter, knew how to take care of her when she was ill, but
did not know in the least how to take care of her when she was well; who allowed her to go
about with young men alone, to "get engaged," if so she pleased, and who, arriving at a party
after her daughter had appeared, rather apologized for coming at all. All this is notoriously
true, and comes of our crude civilization. It is the transition state. Until we learn better,
we must expect to be laughed at on the Pincian Hill, and we must expect English novelists to
paint pictures of us which we resent, and French dramatists to write plays in which we see
ourselves held up as savages.

Europeans have been in the habit of taking care of young girls, as if they were the precious
porcelain of human clay. The American mamma treats her beautiful daughter as if she were a
very common piece of delft indeed, and as if she could drift down the stream of life, knocking
all other vessels to pieces, but escaping injury to herself.

Owing to the very remarkable and strong sense of propriety which American women innately possess--their
truly healthy love of virtue, the absence of any morbid suspicion of wrong--this rule has worked
better than any one would have dared hope. Owing, also, to the exceptionally respectful and
chivalrous nature of American men, it has been possible for a young lady to travel unattended
from Maine to Georgia, or anywhere within the new geographical limits of our social growth.
Mr. Howells founded a romance upon this principle, that American women do not need a chaperon.
Yet we must remember that all the black sheep are not killed yet, and we must also remember
that propriety must be more attended to as we cease to be a young and primitive nation, and
as we enter the lists of the rich, cultivated, luxurious people of the earth.

Little as we may care for the opinion of foreigners we do not wish our young ladies to appear
in their eyes in a false attitude, and one of the first necessities of a proper attitude, one
of the first demands of a polished society, is the presence of a chaperon. She should be a
lady old enough to be the mother of her charge, and of unexceptionable manner. She must know
society thoroughly herself, and respect its laws. She should be above the suspicion of reproach
in character, and devoted to her work. In England there are hundreds of widows of half-pay
officers--well-born, well-trained, well-educated women--who can be hired for money, as was
Mrs. General, to play this part. There is no such class in America, but there is almost always
a lady who will gladly perform the task of chaperoning motherless girls without remuneration.

It is not considered proper in England for a widowed father to place an unmarried daughter
at the head of his house without the companionship of a resident chaperon, and there are grave
objections to its being done here. We have all known instances where such liberty has been
very bad for young girls, and where it has led to great scandals which the presence of a chaperon
would have averted.

The duties of a chaperon are very hard and unremitting, and sometimes very disagreeable. She
must accompany her young lady everywhere; she must sit in the parlor when she receives gentlemen;
she must go with her to the skating-rink, the ball, the party, the races, the dinners, and
especially to theatre parties; she must preside at the table, and act the part of a mother,
so far as she can; she must watch the characters of the men who approach her charge, and endeavor
to save the inexperienced girl from the dangers of a bad marriage, if possible. To perform
this feat, and not to degenerate into a Spanish duenna, a dragon, or a Mrs. General--who was
simply a fool--is a very difficult task.

No doubt a vivacious American girl, with all her inherited hatred of authority, is a troublesome
charge. All young people are rebels. They dislike being watched and guarded. They have no idea
what Hesperidean fruit they are, and they object to the dragon decidedly.

But a wise, well-tempered woman can manage the situation. If she have tact, a chaperon will
add very much to the happiness of her young charge. She will see that the proper men are introduced;
that her young lady is provided with a partner for the german; that she is asked to nice places;
that she goes well dressed and properly accompanied; that she gives the return ball herself
in handsome style.

"I owe," said a wealthy widower in New York, whose daughters all made remarkably happy marriages--"I
owe all their happiness to Mrs. Constant, whom I was so fortunate as to secure as their chaperon.
She knew society (which I did not), as if it were in her pocket. She knew exactly what girls
ought to do, and she was so agreeable herself that they never disliked having her with them.
She was very rigid, too, and would not let them stay late at balls; but they loved and respected
her so much that they never rebelled, and now they love her as if she were really their mother."

A woman of elegant manners and of charming character, who will submit to the slavery--for it
is little less--of being a chaperon, is hard to find; yet every motherless family should try
to secure such a person. In travelling in Europe, an accomplished chaperon can do more for
young girls than any amount of fortune. She has the thing they want--that is, knowledge. With
her they can go everywhere--to picture-galleries, theatres, public and private balls, and into
society, if they wish it. It is "etiquette" to have a chaperon, and it is the greatest violation
of it not to have one.

If a woman is protected by the armor of work, she can dispense with a chaperon. The young artist
goes about her copying unquestioned, but in society, with its different laws, she must be under
the care of an older woman than herself.

A chaperon is indispensable to an engaged girl. The mother, or some lady friend, should always
accompany a young fianc,e on her journeys to the various places of amusement and to the watering-places.

Nothing is more vulgar in the eyes of our modern society than for an engaged couple to travel
together or to go to the theatre unaccompanied, as was the primitive custom. This will, we
know, shock many Americans, and be called a "foolish following of foreign fashions." But it
is true; and, if it were only for the "looks of the thing," it is more decent, more elegant,
and more correct for the young couple to be accompanied by a chaperon until married. Society
allows an engaged girl to drive with her fianc, in an open carriage, but it does not approve
of his taking her in a close carriage to an evening party.

There are non-resident chaperons who are most popular and most useful. Thus, one mamma or elderly
lady may chaperon a number of young ladies to a dinner, or a drive on a coach, a sail down
the bay, or a ball at West Point. This lady looks after all her young charges, and attends
to their propriety and their happiness. She is the guardian angel, for the moment, of their
conduct. It is a care which young men always admire and respect--this of a kind, well-bred
chaperon, who does not allow the youthful spirits of her charges to run away with them.

The chaperon, if an intelligent woman, and with the sort of social talent which a chaperon
ought to have, is the best friend of a family of shy girls. She brings them forward, and places
them in a position in which they can enjoy society; for there is a great deal of tact required
in a large city to make a retiring girl enjoy herself. Society demands a certain amount of
handling, which only the social expert understands. To this the chaperon should be equal. There
are some women who have a social talent which is simply Napoleonic. They manage it as a great
general does his corps de bataille.

Again, there are bad chaperons. A flirtatious married woman who is thinking of herself only,
and who takes young girls about merely to enable herself to lead a gay life (and the world
is full of such women), is worse than no chaperon at all. She is not a protection to the young
lady, and she disgusts the honorable men who would like to approach her charge. A very young
chaperon, bent on pleasure, who undertakes to make respectable the coaching party, but who
has no dignity of character to impress upon it, is a very poor one. Many of the most flagrant
violations of propriety, in what is called the fashionable set, have arisen from this choice
of young chaperons, which is a mere begging of the question, and no chaperonage at all.

Too much champagne is drunk, too late hours are kept, silly stories are circulated, and appearances
are disregarded by these gay girls and their young chaperons; and yet they dislike very much
to see themselves afterwards held up to ridicule in the pages of a magazine by an Englishman,
whose every sentiment of propriety, both educated and innate, has been shocked by their conduct.

A young Frenchman who visited America a few years ago formed the worst judgment of American
women because he met one alone at an artist's studio. He misinterpreted the profoundly sacred
and corrective influences of art. It had not occurred to the lady that if she went to see a
picture she would be suspected of wishing to see the artist. Still, the fact that such a mistake
could be made should render ladies careful of even the appearance of evil.

A chaperon should in her turn remember that she must not open a letter, She must not exercise
an unwise surveillance. She must not suspect her charge. All that sort of Spanish espionage
is always outwitted. The most successful chaperons are those who love their young charges,
respect them, try to be in every way what the mother would have been. Of course, all relations
of this sort are open to many drawbacks on both sides, but it is not impossible that it may
be an agreeable relation, if both parties exercise a little tact.

In selecting a chaperon for a young charge, let parents or guardians be very particular as
to the past history of the lady. If she has ever been talked about, ever suffered the bad reputation
of flirt or coquette, do not think of placing her in that position. Clubs have long memories,
and the fate of more than one young heiress has been imperilled by an injudicious choice of
a chaperon. If any woman should have a spotless record and admirable character it should be
the chaperon. It will tell against her charge if she have not. Certain needy women who have
been ladies, and who precariously attach to society through their families, are always seeking
for some young heiress. These women are very poor chaperons, and should be avoided.

This business of chaperonage is a point which demands attention on the part of careless American
mothers. No mother should be oblivious of her duty in this respect. It does not imply that
she doubts her daughter's honor or truth, or that she thinks she needs watching, but it is
proper and respectable and necessary that she should appear by her daughter's side in society.
The world is full of traps. It is impossible to be too careful of the reputation of a young
lady, and it improves the tone of society vastly if an elegant and respectable woman of middle
age accompanies every young party. It goes far to silence the ceaseless clatter of gossip;
it is the antidote to scandal; it makes the air clearer; and, above all, it improves the character,
the manners, and elevates the minds of the young people who are so happy as to enjoy the society
and to feel the authority of a cultivated, wise, and good chaperon.

CHAPTER XXV. ETIQUETTE FOR ELDERLY GIRLS.

A brisk correspondent writes to us that she finds our restrictions as to the etiquette which
single women should follow somewhat embarrassing. Being now thirty-five, and at the head of
her father's house, with no intention of ever marrying, she asks if she requires a chaperon;
if it is necessary that she should observe the severe self-denial of not entering an artist's
studio without a guardian angel; if she must never allow a gentleman to pay for her theatre
tickets; if she must, in short, assume a matron's place in the world, and never enjoy a matron's
freedom.

From her letter we can but believe that this young lady of thirty-five is a very attractive
person, and that she does "not look her age." Still, as she is at the head of her father's
house, etiquette does yield a point and allows her to judge for herself as to the proprieties
which must bend to her. Of course with every year of a woman's life after twenty-five she becomes
less and less the subject of chaperonage. For one thing, she is better able to judge of the
world and its temptations; in the second place, a certain air which may not be less winning,
but which is certainly more mature, has replaced the wild grace of a giddy girlhood. She has,
with the assumption of years, taken on a dignity which, in its way, is fully the compensation
for some lost bloom. Many people prefer it.

But we must say here that she is not yet, in European opinion, emancipated from that guardianship
which society dispenses with for the youngest widow. She must have a "companion" if she is
a rich woman; and if she is a poor one she must join some party of friends when she travels.
She can travel abroad with her maid, but in Paris and other Continental cities a woman still
young-looking had better not do this. She is not safe from insult nor from injurious suspicion
if she signs herself "Miss" Smith, and is without her mother, an elderly friend, a companion,
or party.

In America a woman can go anywhere and do almost anything without fear of insult. But in Europe,
where the custom of chaperonage is so universal, she must be more circumspect.

As to visiting an artist's studio alone, there is in art itself an ennobling and purifying
influence which should be a protection. But we must not forget that saucy book by Maurice Sand,
in which its author says that the first thing he observed in America was that women (even respectable
ones) went alone to artists' studios. It would seem wiser, therefore, that a lady, though thirty-five,
should be attended in her visits to studios by a friend or companion. This simple expedient
"silences envious tongues," and avoids even the remotest appearance of evil.

In the matter of paying for tickets, if a lady of thirty-five wishes to allow a gentleman to
pay for her admission to picture-galleries and theatres she has an indisputable right to do
so. But we are not fighting for a right, only defining a law of etiquette, when we say that
it is not generally allowed in the best society, abroad or here. In the case of young girls
it is quite unallowable, but in the case of a lady of thirty-five it may be permitted as a
sort of camaraderie, as one college friend may pay for another. The point is, however, a delicate
one. Men, in the freedom of their clubs, recount to each other the clever expedients which
many women of society use to extort from them boxes for the opera and suppers at Delmonico's.
A woman should remember that it may sometimes be very inconvenient to young men who are invited
by her to go to concerts and theatres to pay for these pleasures. Many a poor fellow who has
become a defaulter has to thank for it the lady who first asked him to take her to Delmonico's
to supper. He was ashamed to tell her that he was poor, and he stole that he might not seem
a churl.

Another phase of the subject is that a lady in permitting a gentleman to expend money for her
pleasures assumes an obligation to him which time and chance may render oppressive.

With an old friend, however, one whose claim to friendship is well established, the conditions
are changed. In his case there can be no question of obligation, and a woman may accept unhesitatingly
any of those small attentions and kindnesses which friendly feeling may prompt him to offer to her.

Travelling alone with a gentleman escort was at one time allowed in the West. A Kentucky woman
of that historic period, "before the war," would not have questioned the propriety of it, and
a Western man of to-day still has the desire to pay everything, everywhere, "for a lady."

The increase in the population of the Western States and the growth of a wealthy and fashionable
society in the large towns have greatly modified this spirit of unwise chivalry, and such customs
are passing away even on the frontier. Mr. Howells's novel, "The Lady of the Aroostook," has
acquainted American readers with the unkind criticism to which a young lady who travels in
Europe without a chaperon is subjected, and we believe that there are few mammas who would
desire to see their daughters in the position of Miss Lydia Blood.

"An old maid," as our correspondent playfully calls herself, may do almost anything without
violating etiquette, if she consents to become a chaperon, and takes with her a younger person.
Thus an aunt and niece can travel far and wide; the position of an elder sister is always dignified;
the youthful head of a house has a right to assert herself--she must do it--therefore etiquette
bows to her (as "nice customs courtesy to great kings").

There is very much in the appearance of a woman. It is a part of the injustice of nature that
some people look coquettish who are not so. Bad taste in dress, a high color, a natural flow
of spirits, or a loud laugh have often caused a very good woman to be misinterpreted. Such
a woman should be able to sit in judgment upon herself; and remembering that in a great city,
at a crowded theatre, or at a watering-place, judgments must be hasty and superficial, she
should tone down her natural exuberance, and take with her a female companion who is of a different
type from herself. Calm and cold Puritanical people may not be more respectable than the fresh-colored
and laughing "old maids" of thirty-five, but they look more so, and in this world women must
consult appearances. An elderly girl must ever think how she looks. A woman who at a watering-place
dresses conspicuously, wears a peignoir to breakfast, dyes her hair, or looks as if she did,
ties a white blond veil over her locks and sits on a hotel piazza, showing her feet, may be
the best, the most cultivated woman in the house, but a superficial observer will not think
so. In the mind of every passer-by will lurk the feeling that she lacks the first grace of
womanhood, modesty--and in the criticism of a crowd there is strength. A man passing such a
person, and contrasting her with modestly dressed and unobtrusive ladies, would naturally form
an unfavorable opinion of her; and were she alone, and her name entered on the books of the
house as "Miss" Smith, he would not be too severe if he thought her decidedly eccentric, and
certainly "bad style." If, however, "Miss" Smith were very plain and quiet, and dressed simply
and in good taste, or if she sat on the sands looking at the sea, or attended an invalid or
a younger friend, then Miss Smith might be as independent as she pleased: she would suffer
from no injurious comments. Even the foreigner, who does not believe in the eccentricities
of the English mees, would have no word to say against her. A good-looking elderly girl might
say, "There is, then, a premium on ugliness;" but that we do not mean. Handsome women can conduct
themselves so well that the breath of reproach need not and does not touch them, and ugly women
may and do sometimes gain an undeserved reproach.

There are some people who are born with what we call, for want of a better name, a pinchbeck
air. Their jewellery never looks like real gold; their manner is always bad; they have the
faux air of fashion, not the real one. Such people, especially if single, receive many a snub
which they do not deserve, and to a woman of this style a companion is almost necessary. Fortunately
there are almost always two women who can join forces in travelling or in living together,
and the independence of such a couple is delightful. We have repeated testimony in English
literature of the pleasant lives of the Ladies of Llangollen, of the lives of Miss Jewsbury
and Lady Morgan, and of the model sisters Berry. In our own country we have almost abolished
the idea that a companion is necessary for women of talent who are physicians or artists or
musicians; but to those who are still in the trammels of private life we can say that the presence
of a companion need not destroy their liberty, and it may add very much to their respectability
and happiness. There is, no doubt, a great pleasure in the added freedom of life which comes
to an elderly girl. "I can wear a velvet dress now," said an exceedingly handsome woman on
her thirtieth birthday. In England an unmarried woman of fifty is called "Mrs.," if she prefers
that title. So many delightful women are late in loving, so many are true to some buried love,
so many are "elderly girls" from choice, and from no neglect of the stronger sex, that to them
should be accorded all the respect which is supposed to accrue naturally to the married. "It
takes a very superior woman to be an old maid," said Miss Sedgwick.

CHAPTER XXVI. NEW-YEAR'S CALLS.

"Le jour de l'an," as the French call the first day of January, is indeed the principal day
of the year to those who still keep up the custom of calling and receiving calls. But in New
York it is a custom which is in danger of falling into desuetude, owing to the size of the
city and the growth of its population. There are, however, other towns and "much country" (as
the Indians say) outside of New York, and there are still hospitable boards at which the happy
and the light-hearted, the gay and the thoughtful, may meet and exchange wishes for a happy
New-Year.

To those who receive calls we would say that it is well, if possible, to have every arrangement
made two or three days before New-Year's, as the visiting begins early--sometimes at eleven
o'clock--if the caller means to make a goodly day. A lady should have her hair dressed for
the day when she rises, and if her dress be not too elaborate she should put it on then, so
that she may be in the drawing-room when the first visitor arrives. In regard to the question
of dress, we should say that for elderly ladies black satin or velvet, or any of the combination
dresses so fashionable now, with handsome lace, and Swedish gloves of pearl or tan color (not
white kids; these are decidedly rococo, and not in fashion), would be appropriate. A black
satin, well made, and trimmed with beaded passementerie, is perhaps the handsomest dress that
could be worn by any one. Brocaded silk, plain gros grain, anything that a lady would wear
at the wedding reception of her daughter is suitable, although a plain dress is in better taste.

For young ladies nothing is so pretty as a dress of light cashmere and silk, cut high at the
throat. These dresses, in the very pretty tints worn now, are extremely becoming, warm-looking,
and appropriate for a reception, when the door is being often opened. White dresses of thick
silk or cashmere, trimmed around the neck with lace, are also very elegant. In all countries
young married women are allowed to be as magnificent as a picture of Marie de Medici, and can
wear on New-Year's day rose-colored and white brocaded silks, with pearl trimmings, or plain
ciel blue, or prawn-colored silk over white, or embossed velvet, or what they please, so that
the dress is cut high, and has sleeves to the elbow. Each lady should have near her an ermine
cloak, or a small camel's-hair shawl in case of draughts. It is not good taste to wear low-necked
or sleeveless dresses during the day-time. They are worn by brides on their wedding-day sometimes,
but at receptions or on New-Year's day scarcely ever.

While much magnificence is permissible, still a plain black or dark silk dress, if well made,
with fresh ruffles at neck and wrists, is quite as proper as anything else, and men generally
admire it more. But where a lady has several daughters to receive with her, she should study
the effect of her rooms, and dress the young ladies in prettily contrasting colors. This may
be cheaply done by using the soft, fine merinoes, which are to be had in all the delicate and
fashionable shades. Short dresses of this material are much used; but now that imported dresses
are so easily obtained, a mother with many daughters to dress cannot do better than buy costumes
similar to those worn by economical French ladies on their jour de l'an. One article of dress
is de rigeur. With whatever style of costume, gloves must be worn.

A lady who expects to have many calls, and who wishes to offer refreshments, should have hot
tea and coffee and a bowl of punch on a convenient table; or, better still, a silver kettle
filled with bouillon standing in the hall, so that a gentleman coming in or going out can take
a cup of it unsolicited. If she lives in an English basement house, this table can be in the
lower dining-room. In a house three rooms deep the table and all the refreshments can be in
the usual dining-room or in the upper back-parlor. Of course, her "grand spread" can be as
gorgeous as she pleases. Hot oysters, salads, boned turkey, quail, and hot terrapin, with wines
ad libitum, are offered by the wealthy; but this is a difficult table to keep in order when
ten men call at one o'clock, and forty at four, and none between. The best table is one which
is furnished with boned turkey, jellied tongues, and pft,s, sandwiches, and similar dishes,
with cake and fruit as decorative additions. The modern and admirable adjunct of a spirit-lamp
under a teakettle keeps the bouillon, tea, and coffee always hot, and these, with the teacups
necessary to serve them, should be on a small table at one side. A maid-servant, neatly dressed,
should be in constant attendance on this table, and a man-servant or two will be needed to
attend the door and to wait at table.

The man at the door should have a silver tray or card-basket in which to receive the cards
of visitors. If a gentleman is not known to the lady of the house, he sends in his card; otherwise
he leaves it with the waiter, who deposits it in some receptacle where it should be kept until
the lady has leisure to examine the cards of all her guests. If a gentleman is calling on a
young lady, and is not known to the hostess, he sends in his card to the former, who presents
him to the hostess and to all the ladies present. If the room is full, an introduction to the
hostess only is necessary. If the room is comparatively empty, it is much kinder to present
a gentleman to each lady, as it tends to make conversation general. As a guest is about to
depart, he should be invited to take some refreshment, and be conducted towards the dining-room
for that purpose. This hospitality should never be urged, as man is a creature who dines, and
is seldom willing to allow a luncheon to spoil a dinner. In a country neighborhood, however,
or after a long walk, a visitor is almost always glad to break his fast and enjoy a pickled
oyster, a sandwich, or a cup of bouillon.

The etiquette of New-Year's day commands, peremptorily, that a gentleman shall not be asked
to take off his overcoat nor to be relieved of his hat. He will probably prefer to wear his
overcoat, and to carry his hat in his hand during his brief visit. If he wishes to dispose
of either, he will do so in the hall; but on that point he is a free moral agent, and it is
not a part of the duty of a hostess to suggest what he shall do with his clothes.

Many letters come to us asking "What subjects should be talked about during a New-Year's call."
Alas! we can only suggest the weather and the good wishes appropriate to the season. The conversation
is apt to be fragmentary. One good mot was evolved a few years ago, when roads were snowy and
ways were foul. A gentleman complained of the mud and the dirty streets. "Yes," said the lady,
"but it is very bright overhead." "I am not going that way," replied the gentleman.

A gentleman should not be urged to stay when he calls. He has generally but five minutes in
which to express a desire that old and pleasant memories shall be continued, that new and cordial
friendships shall be formed, and after that compliment, which every wall-bred man pays a lady,
"How remarkably well you are looking to-day!" he wishes to be off.

In France it is the custom for a gentleman to wear a dress-coat when calling on a great public
functionary on New-Year's day, but it is not so in America. Here he should, wear the dress
in which he would make an ordinary morning visit. When he enters a room he should not remove
his gloves, nor should he say, as he greets his hostess, "Excuse my glove." He should take
her gloved hand in his and give it a cordial pressure, according to our pleasant American fashion.
When leaving, the ceremony is very brief--simply, "Good-morning," or "Good-evening," as the
case may be.

It is proper for gentlemen to call late in the evening of New-Year's day, and calls are made
during the ensuing evenings by people who are otherwise occupied in the daytime. If the family
are at dinner, or the lady is fatigued with the day's duties, the servant must say at the door
that Mrs. desires to be excused. He must not present the card to her, and thus oblige her to
send to her visitor a message which might be taken as a personal affront. But she must have
the servant instructed to refuse all at certain hours; then none can be offended.

Many ladies in New York are no longer "at home" on New-Year's day; and when this is the case
a basket is tied at the door to receive cards. They do this because so many gentlemen have
given up the custom of calling that it seems to be dying out, and all their preparations for
a reception become a hollow mockery. How many weary women have sat with novel in hand and luncheon-table
spread, waiting for the callers who did not come! The practice of sending cards to gentlemen,
stating that a lady would be at home on New-Year's day, has also very much gone out of fashion,
owing to the fact that gentlemen frequently did not respond to them.

It is, however, proper that a married lady returning to her home after a long absence in Europe,
or one who has changed her residence, or who is living at a hotel or boarding-house (or who
is visiting friends), should send her card to those gentlemen whom she wishes to receive. It
must be remembered that many gentlemen, generally those no longer young, still like very much
the fashion of visiting on New-Year's day, and go to see as many people as they can in a brief
winter's sunshine. These gentlemen deplore the basket at the door, and the decadence of the
old custom in New York. Family friends and old friends, those whom they never see at any other
time, are to be seen--or they should be seen, so these old friends think--on New-Year's day.

A personal call is more agreeable than a card. Let a gentleman call, and in person, or take
no notice of the day. So say the most trustworthy authorities, and their opinion has an excellent
foundation of common-sense.

Could we only go back to the old Dutch town where the custom started, where all animosities
were healed, all offences forgotten, on New-Year's day, when the good Dutch housewives made
their own cakes and spiced the loving-cup, when all the women stayed at home to receive and
all the men called, what a different New-Year's day we should enjoy in New York. Nowadays,
two or three visitors arrive before the hostess is ready to receive them; then one comes after
she has appeared, vanishes, and she remains alone for two hours; then forty come. She remembers
none of their names, and has no rational or profitable conversation with any of them.

But for the abusers of New-Year's day, the pretenders who, with no right to call, come in under
cover of the general hospitality of the season--the bores, who on this day, as on all days,
are only tiresome--we have no salve, no patent cure. A hostess must receive them with the utmost
suavity, and be as amiable and agreeable as possible.

New-Year's day is a very brilliant one at Washington. All the world calls on the President
at twelve o'clock; the diplomats in full dress, officers of the army and navy in full uniform,
and the other people grandly attired. Later, the heads of departments, cabinet ministers, judges,
etc., receive the lesser lights of society.

In Paris the same etiquette is observed, and every clerk calls on his chief.

In a small city or village etiquette manages itself, and ladies have only to let it be known
that they will be at home, with hot coffee and oysters, to receive the most agreeable kind
of callers--those who come because they really wish to pay a visit, to express goodwill, and
to ask for that expression of friendship which our reserved Anglo-Saxon natures are so prone
to withhold.

In New York a few years ago the temperance people made a great onslaught on ladies who invited
young men to drink on New-Year's day. It was said to lead to much disorder and intemperance;
and so, from fear of causing one's brother to sin, many have banished the familiar punch-bowl.
In a number of well-known houses in New York no luncheon is offered, and a cup of bouillon
or coffee and a sandwich is the usual refreshment in the richest and most stylish houses. It
will be seen, therefore, that it is a day of largest liberty. There are no longer any sumptuary
laws; but it is impossible to say why ladies of the highest fashion in New York do not still
make it a gala-day. The multiplicity of other entertainments, the unseen yet all-powerful influence
of fashion, these things mould the world insensibly. Yet in a thousand homes, thousands of
cordial hands will be extended on the great First of January, and to all of them we wish a
Happy New Year.

CHAPTER XXVII. MATINES AND SOIRES.

A matin,e in America means an afternoon performance at the theatre of a play or opera. In Europe
it has a wider significance, any social gathering before dinner in France being called a matin,e,
as any party after dinner is called a soir,e.

The improper application of another foreign word was strikingly manifested in the old fashion
of calling the President's evening receptions levees. The term "levee," as originally used,
meant literally a king's getting up. When he arose, and while he was dressing, such of his
courtiers as were privileged to approach him at this hour gathered in an anteroom-waiting to
assist at his toilet, to wish him good morning, or perhaps prefer a request. In time this morning
gathering grew to be an important court ceremonial, and some one ignorant of the meaning of
the word named President Jackson's evening receptions "the President's levees." So with the
word matin,e. First used to indicate a day reception at court, it has now grown to mean a day
performance at a theatre. Sometimes a lady, bolder than her neighbors, issues an invitation
for "a matin,e dansante," or "a matin,e musicale," but this descriptive style is not common.

There are many advantages in a morning party. It affords to ladies who do not go to evening
receptions the pleasure of meeting informally, and is also a well-chosen occasion for introducing
a new pianist or singer.

For a busy woman of fashion nothing can be more conveniently timed than a matin,e, which begins
at two and ends at four or half past. It does not interfere with a five-o'clock tea or a drive
in the park, nor unfit her for a dinner or an evening entertainment. Two o'clock is also a
very good hour for a large and informal general lunch, if a lady wishes to avoid the expense,
formality, and trouble of a "sit-down" lunch.

While the busy ladies can go to a matin,e, the busy gentleman cannot; and as men of leisure
in America are few, a morning entertainment at a theatre or in society is almost always an
assemblage of women. To avoid this inequality of sex, many ladies have their matin,es on some
one of the national holidays--Washington's Birthday, Thanksgiving, or Decoration-day. On these
occasions a matin,e, even in busy New York, is well attended by gentlemen.

When, as sometimes happens, a prince, a duke, an archbishop, an author of celebrity, a Tom
Hughes, a Lord Houghton, a Dean Stanley, or some descendant of our French allies at Yorktown,
comes on a visit to our country, one of the most satisfactory forms of entertainment that we
can offer to him is a morning reception. At an informal matin,e we may bring to meet him such
authors, artists, clergymen, lawyers, editors, statesmen, rich and public-spirited citizens,
and beautiful and cultivated women of society, as we may be fortunate enough to know.

The primary business of society is to bring together the various elements of which it is made
up--its strongest motive should be to lighten up the momentous business of life by an easy
and friendly intercourse and interchange of ideas.

But if we hope to bring about us men of mind and distinction, our object must be not only to
be amused but to amuse.

To persuade those elderly men who are maintaining the great American name at its present high
place in the Pantheon of nations to spend a couple of hours at a matin,e, we must offer some
tempting bait as an equivalent. A lady who entertained Dean Stanley said that she particularly
enjoyed her own matin,e given for him, because through his name she for the first time induced
the distinguished clergy of New York to come to her house.

Such men are not tempted by the frivolities of a fashionable social life that lives by its
vanity, its excitement, its rivalry and flirtation. Not that all fashionable society is open
to such reproach, but its tendency is to lightness and emptiness; and we rarely find really
valuable men who seek it. Therefore a lady who would make her house attractive to the best
society must offer it something higher than that to which we may give the generic title fashion.
Dress, music, dancing, supper, are delightful accessories-they are ornaments and stimulants,
not requisites. For a good society we need men and women who are "good company," as they say
in England--men and women who can talk. Nor is the advantage all on one side. The free play
of brain, taste, and feeling is a most important refreshment to a man who works hard, whether
in the pulpit or in Wall Street, in the editorial chair or at the dull grind of authorship.
The painter should wash his brushes and strive for some intercourse of abiding value with those
whose lives differ from his own. The woman who works should also look upon the divertissements
of society as needed recreation, fruitful, may be, of the best culture.

On the other hand, no society is perfect without the elements of beauty, grace, taste, refinement,
and luxury. We must bring all these varied potentialities together if we would have a real
and living social life. For that brilliant thing that we call society is a finely-woven fabric
of threads of different sizes and colors of contrasting shades. It is not intrigue, or the
display of wealth, or morbid excitement that must bind together this social fabric, but sympathy,
that pleasant thing which refines and refreshes, and "knits up the ravelled sleeve of care,"
and leaves us strong for the battle of life.

And in no modern form of entertainment can we better produce this finer atmosphere, this desirable
sympathy between the world of fashion and that of thought, than by matin,es, when given under
favorable circumstances. To be sure, if we gave one every day it would be necessary, as we
have said, to dispense with a large number of gentlemen; but the occasional matinee is apt
to catch some very good specimens of the genus homo, and sometimes the best specimens. It is
proper to offer a very substantial buffet, as people rarely lunch before two o'clock, and will
be glad of a bit of bird, a cup of bouillon, or a leaf of salad. It is much better to offer
such an entertainment earlier than the five-o'clock tea; at which hour people are saving their
appetites for dinner.

A soir,e is a far more difficult affair, and calls for more subtle treatment. It should be,
not a ball, but what was formerly called an "evening party." It need not exclude dancing, but
dancing is not its excuse for being. It means a very bright conversazione, or a reading, or
a musicale, with pretty evening dress (not necessarily ball dress), a supper, and early hours.
Such, at least, was its early significance abroad.

It has this advantage in New York, that it does attract gentlemen. They like very much the
easy-going, early-houred soir,e. We mean, of course, those gentlemen who no longer care for
balls, and if aristocracy is to be desired, "the rule of the best," at American entertainments,
all aspirants for social distinction should try to propitiate those men who are being driven
from the ballroom by the insolence and pretension of the lower elements of fashionable society.
In Europe, the very qualities which make a man great in the senate, the field, or the chamber
of commerce, give him a corresponding eminence in the social world. Many a gray-mustached veteran
in Paris leads the german. A senator of France aspires to appear well in the boudoir. With
these men social dexterity is a requisite to success, and is cultivated as a duty. It is not
so here, for the two great factors of success in America, wealth and learning, do not always
fit a man for society, and still less does society adapt itself to them.

The soir,e, if properly conducted, is an entertainment to which can be brought the best elements
of our society: elderly, thoughtful, and educated men. A lady should not, however, in the matter
of dress, confound a soir,e with a concert or reception. It is the height of impropriety to
wear a bonnet to the former, as has been done in New York, to the everlasting disgust of the
hostess.

When a hostess takes the pains to issue an invitation to a soir,e a week or a fortnight before
it is to occur, she should be repaid by the careful dressing and early arrival of her guests.
It may be proper to go to an evening reception in a bonnet, but never to a soir,e or an evening
party.

There is no doubt that wealth has become a power in American society, and that we are in danger
of feeling that, if we have not wealth, we can give neither matin,es nor soir,es; but this
is a mistake. Of course the possession of wealth is most desirable. Money is power, and when
it is well earned it is a noble power; but it does not command all those advantages which are
the very essence of social intercourse. It may pamper the appetite, but it does not always
feed the mind. There is still a corner left for those that have but little money. A lady can
give a matinee or a soiree in a small house with very little expenditure of money; and if she
has the inspiration of the model entertainer, every one whom she honors with an invitation
will flock to her small and unpretending menage. There are numbers of people in our large cities
who can give great balls, dazzle the eye, confuse and delight the senses, drown us in a sensuous
luxury; but how few there are who, in a back street and in a humble house, light that lamp
by which the Misses Berry summoned to their little parlor the cleverest and best people!

The elegant, the unpretentious, the quiet soir,e to which the woman of fashion shall welcome
the litt,rateur and the artist, the aristocrat who is at the top of the social tree and the
millionaire who reached his culmination yesterday, would seem to be that Ultima Thule for which
all people have been sighing ever since society was first thought of. There are some Americans
who are so foolish as to affect the pride of the hereditary aristocracies, and who have some
fancied traditional standard by which they think to keep their blue blood pure. A good old
grandfather who had talent, or patriotism, or broad views of statesmanship, "who did the state
some service," is a relation to be proud of, but his descendants should take care to show,
by some more personal excellence than that of a social exclusiveness, their appreciation of
his honesty and ability. What our grandfathers were, a thousand new-comers now are. They made
their way--the early American men--untrammelled by class restraints; they arrived at wealth
and distinction and social eminence by their own merits; they toiled for the money which buys
for their grandsons purple and fine linen. And could they see the pure and perfect snob who
now sometimes bears the name which they left so unsullied, they would be exasperated and ashamed,
Of course, a certain exclusiveness must mark all our matin,es and soir,es; they would fail
of the chief element of diversion if we invited everybody. Let us, therefore, make sure of
the aesthetic and intellectual, the sympathetic and the genial, and sift out the pretentious
and the impure. The rogues, the pretenders, the adventurers who push into the penetralia of
our social circles are many, and it is to the exclusion of such that a hostess should devote
herself.

It is said that all women are born aristocrats, and it is sometimes said in the same tone with
which the speaker afterwards adds that all women are born fools. A woman, from her finer sense,
enjoys luxury, fine clothing, gorgeous houses, and all the refinements that money can buy;
but even the most idle and luxurious and foolish woman desires that higher luxury which art
and intelligence and delicate appreciation can alone bring; the two are necessary to each other.
To a hostess the difficulty of entertaining in such a manner as to unite in a perfect whole
the financiers, the philosophers, the cultivated foreigners, the people of fashion, the sympathetic
and the artistic is very great; but a hostess may bring about the most genial democracy at
the modern matin,e or soir,e if she manages properly.

CHAPTER XXVIII. AFTERNOON TEA.

The five-o'clock tea began in England, and is continued there, as a needed refreshment after
a day's hunting, driving, or out-of-door exercise, before dressing for dinner--that very late
dinner of English fashion. It is believed that the Princess of Wales set the fashion by receiving
in her boudoir at some countryhouse in a very becoming "tea gown," which every lady knows to
be the most luxurious change from the tight riding-habit or carriage-dress. Her friends came
in, by her gracious invitation, to her sanctum, between five and seven, to take a cup of tea
with her. The London belles were glad to have an excuse for a new entertainment, and gradually
it grew to be a fashion, at which people talked so fast and so loud as to suggest the noise
of a drum--a kettledrum, the most rattling of all drums. Then it was remembered that an old-fashioned
entertainment was called a drum, and the tea suggested kettle, and the name fitted the circumstances.
In England, where economy is so much the fashion, it was finally pronounced an excellent excuse
for the suppression of expense, and it came over to New York during a calamitous period, just
after "Black Friday." Ladies were glad to assemble their friends at an hour convenient for
their servants, and with an entertainment inexpensive to their husbands. So a kettledrum became
the most fashionable of entertainments. People after a while forgot its origin, and gave a
splendid ball by daylight, with every luxury of the season, and called it tea at five o'clock,
or else paid off all their social obligations by one sweeping "tea," which cost them nothing
but the lighting of the gas and the hiring of an additional waiter. They became so popular
that they defeated themselves, and ladies had to encompass five, six, sometimes nine teas of
an afternoon, and the whole of a cold Saturday--the favorite day for teas--was spent in a carriage
trying to accomplish the impossible.

The only "afternoon tea" that should prevail in a large city like New York is that given by
one or two ladies who are usually "at home" at five o'clock every afternoon. If there is a
well-known house where the hostess has the firmness and the hospitality to be always seated
in front of her blazing urn at that hour, she is sure of a crowd of gentlemen visitors, who
come from down-town glad of a cup of tea and a chat and rest between work and dinner. The sight
of a pretty girl making tea is always dear to the masculine heart. Many of our young lawyers,
brokers, and gay men of the hunt like a cup of hot tea at five o'clock. The mistake was in
the perversion of the idea, the making it the occasion for the official presentation of a daughter,
or the excuse for other and more elaborate entertainments. So, although many a house is opened
this winter at the same convenient hour, and with perhaps only the bouillon and tea-kettle
and bit of cake or sandwich (for really no one wants more refreshment than this before dinner
and after luncheon), the name of these afternoon entertainments has been by mutual consent
dropped, and we no longer see the word "kettledrum" or "afternoon tea" on a card, but simply
the date and the hour.

There is a great deal to be said in this matter on both sides. The primal idea was a good one.
To have a gathering of people without the universal oyster was at first a great relief. The
people who had not money for grand "spreads" were enabled to show to their more opulent neighbors
that they too had the spirit of hospitality. All who have spent a winter in Rome remember the
frugal entertainment offered, so that an artist with no plentiful purse could still ask a prince
to visit him. It became the reproach of Americans that they alone were ashamed to be poor,
and that, unless they could offer an expensive supper, dinner, or luncheon, they could not
ask their friends to come to see them. Then, again, the doctors, it was urged, had discovered
that tea was the best stimulant for the athlete and for the brain-worker. English "breakfast
tea" kept nobody awake, and was the most delightful of appetizers. The cup of tea and a sandwich
taken at five o'clock spoiled no one's dinner. The ladies of the house began these entertainments,
modestly receiving in plain but pretty dresses; their guests were asked to come in walking-dress.
But soon the other side of the story began to tell. A lady going in velvet and furs into a
heated room, where gas added its discomfort to the subterranean fires of a furnace, drank her
hot cup of tea, and came out to take a dreadful cold. Her walking dress was manifestly a dress
inappropriate to a kettledrum. Then the hostess and the guests both became more dressy, the
afternoon tea lost its primitive character and became a gay reception. Then, again, the nerves!
The doctors condemn even the afternoon cup of tea, and declare that it is the foundation of
much of the nervous prostration, the sleeplessness, and the nameless misery of our overexcited
and careworn oxygen driven people. We are overworked, no doubt. We are an overcivilized set,
particularly in the large cities, and every one must decide for himself or herself if "tea"
is not an insidious enemy. That the introduction of an informal and healthful and inexpensive
way of entertaining is a grand desideratum no one can fail to observe and allow. But with the
growth of an idea the tea blossomed into a supper, and the little knot into a crowd, and of
course the name became a misnomer.

The ideal entertainment would seem to be a gathering between four and seven, which is thoroughly
understood to be a large gas-lighted party, which a lady enters properly dressed for a hot
room, having a cloak which she can throw off in the hall, and where she can make her call long
or short, as she pleases, and can find a cup of hot bouillon if she is cold, or tea if she
prefers it, or a more elaborate lunch if her hostess pleases; and this ideal entertainment
is not afternoon tea; it is a reception. It is well enough indicated by the date on the card,
and does not need a name.

The abuse of the "afternoon tea" was that it took the place of other entertainments. It has
almost ruined the early evening party, which was so pleasant a feature of the past. People
who could well afford to give breakfasts, lunches, dinners, and balls, where men and women
could meet each other, and talk, and know each other well, did not give them; they gave an
afternoon tea.

It may be because we have no "leisure class" that we do not give breakfasts. In all our Anglomania
it is strange that we have not copied that plain, informal thing, an English breakfast, such
as Sydney Smith was wont to give. Mr. Webster writes home in 1839: "In England the rule of
politeness is to be quiet, act naturally, take no airs, and make no bustle. This perfect politeness
has cost a great deal of drill." He delighted in the English breakfasts, where he met "Boz,"
Tom Moore, Wordsworth, Rogers (who never gave any entertainment but breakfasts). We are all
workers in America, yet we might have an occasional breakfast-party. Dinners and ladies' lunches
we know very well how to give, and there are plenty of them. Perhaps the only objection to
them is their oversumptuousness. The ideal dinners of the past at Washington, with the old
Virginia hospitality, the oysters, terrapin, wild turkeys, venison, served by negro cooks and
waiters, the hostess keeping the idea of agreeability before her, instead of caring principally
for her china, her glass, and her table-cloth. These gave way long ago in New York to the greater
luxury of the prosperous city, and if there was any loss, it was in the conversation. New York
women have been forced into a life of overdressing, dancing, visiting, shopping, gaining the
accomplishments, and showing them off, and leading the life of society at its height; the men
have been overwhelmingly engaged in commerce, and later in Wall Street. No wonder that four
o'clock was an hour at which both paused, and called for a "cup of tea."

Nor because the name has passed away-temporarily, perhaps--will the fashion pass. People will
still gather around the steaming urn. Young ladies find it a very pretty recreation to make
the tea-table attractive with the floral arrangements, the basket of cake, the sandwiches,
the silver tea-caddy, the alcohol lamp burning under the silver or copper kettle, the padded
"cozy" to keep the tea warm, the long table around which young gentlemen and young ladies can
sit, while mamma, patient American mamma--receives the elder people in the parlor.

It is no longer the elderly lady who presides at the tea-kettle; the tabbies do not make or
drink the teas; the younger pussies are the queens of four-o'clock tea. It is whispered that
it is a convenient alias for flirtation, or something even sweeter--that many engagements have
been made at "four-o'clock teas."

Certainly it is a very good opportunity for showing one's tea-cups. The handsome china can
be displayed at a four-o'clock tea, if it is not too large, to the best advantage. The very
early assumption of a grand social entertainment under the name of "four-o'clock tea" rather
blotted out one of the prettiest features of the English tea, that of the graceful garment
the tea gown.

Tea gowns in France, under the r,gime of Worth, have become most luxurious garments. They are
made of silk, satin, velvet, and lined with delicate surah. They are trimmed with real and
imitation lace, and are of the most delicate shades of pink, blue, lavender, and pearl-color;
cascades of lace extend down the front. In these, made loose to the figure, but still very
elegant and most becoming, do the English princess, the duchess, and the Continental coroneted
or royal dame, or the queen of fashion, receive their guests at afternoon tea. No wonder that
in each bridal trousseau do we read of the wonderful "tea gowns." In America ladies have been
in the habit of always receiving in the tight-fitting and elegant combinations of silk, surah,
brocade, velvet, and cashmere which fill the wardrobe of modern fashion. The dresses of delicate
cashmere, so becoming to young girls, are always very much patronized for afternoon tea. Indeed,
the young lady dressed for afternoon tea was dressed for dinner. In this, as our American afternoon
teas have been managed, the American young lady was right, for it is not convenable, according
to European ideas, to wear a loose flowing robe of the tea-gown pattern out of one's bedroom
or boudoir. It has been done by ignorant people at a watering-place, but it never looks well.
It is really an undress, although lace and satin may be used in its composition. A plain, high,
and tight-fitting g,arment is much the more elegant dress for the afternoon teas as we give them.

Call it what you will--reception, kettledrum, afternoon tea, or something without a name--we
have unconsciously, imitating a very different sort of informal gathering, gained an easy and
a sensible entertainment in society, from four to seven; which seems to address itself to all
kinds of needs. We are prone in America (so foreigners say) to overdo a thing--perhaps, also,
to underdo it. Be that as it may, all agree with Lord Houghton, who laughed at the phrase,
that we know how "to have a good time."

CHAPTER XXIX. CAUDLE AND CHRISTENING CUPS AND CEREMONIES.

We are asked by many young mammas as to the meaning of the phrase "caudle parties."

Formerly the persons who called to congratulate the happy possessor of a new boy or girl were
offered mulled wine and plum-cake. Some early chronicler thinks that the two got mixed, and
that caudle was the result.

Certain it is that a most delicious beverage, a kind of oatmeal gruel, boiled "two days," with
raisins and spices, and fine old Madeira (some say rum) added, makes a dish fit to set before
a king, and is offered now to the callers on a young mamma. The old English custom was to have
this beverage served three days after the arrival of the little stranger. The caudle-cups,
preserved in many an old family, are now eagerly sought after as curiosities; they have two
handles, so they could be passed from one to another. They were handed down as heirlooms when
these candle parties were more fashionable than they have been, until a recent date. Now there
is a decided idea of reintroducing them. In those days the newly-made papa also entertained
his friends with a stag party, when bachelors and also Benedicks were invited to eat buttered
toast, which was sugared and spread in a mighty punch-bowl, over which boiling-hot beer was
poured. After the punch-bowl was emptied, each guest placed a piece of money in the bowl for
the nurse. Strong ale was brewed, and a pipe of wine laid by to be drunk on the majority of
the child.

This greasy mess is fortunately now extinct, but the caudle, a really delicious dish or drink,
is the fashion again. It is generally offered when master or miss is about six weeks old, and
mamma receives her friends in a tea gown or some pretty convalescent wrap, very often made
of velvet or plush cut in the form of a belted-in jacket and skirt, or in one long princesse
robe, elaborately trimmed with cascades of lace down the front. The baby is, of course, shown,
but not much handled. Some parents have the christening and the caudle party together, but
of this, it is said, the Church does not approve.

The selection of god-parents is always a delicate task. It is a very great compliment, of course,
to ask any one to stand in this relation, highly regarded in England, but not so much thought
of here. Formerly there were always two godfathers and two godmothers, generally chosen from
friends and relations, who were expected to watch over the religious education of the young
child, and to see that he was, in due time, confirmed. In all old countries this relationship
lasts through life; kindly help and counsel being given to the child by the godfather--even
to adoption in many instances--should the parents die. But in our new country, with the absence
of an established Church, and with our belief in the power of every man to take care of himself,
this beautiful relationship has been neglected. We are glad to see by our letters that it is
being renewed, and that people are thinking more of these time-honored connections.

After a birth, friends and acquaintances should call and send in their cards, or send them
by their servants, with kind inquiries. When the mother is ready to see her friends, she should,
if she wishes, signify that time by sending out cards for a "caudle party." But let her be
rather deliberate about this unless she has a mother, or aunt, or sister to take all the trouble
for her.

The godfather and godmother generally give some little present; a silver cup or porringer,
knife, fork, and spoon, silver basin, coral tooth-cutter, or coral and bells, were the former
gifts; but, nowadays, we hear of one wealthy godfather who left a check for $100,000 in the
baby's cradle; and it is not unusual for those who can do so to make some very valuable investment
for the child, particularly if he bears the name of the godfather.

Some people--indeed, most people--take their children to church to be baptized, and then give
a luncheon at home afterwards to which all are invited, especially the officiating clergyman
and his wife, as well as the sponsors. The presents should be given at this time. Old-fashioned
people give the baby some salt and an egg for good luck, and are particular that he should
be carried up-stairs before he is carried down, and that when he goes out first he shall be
carried to the house of some near and dear relative.

Confirmation is in the Episcopal Church the sequel to baptism; and in France this is a beautiful
and very important ceremony. In the month of May the streets are filled with white doves--young
girls, all in muslin and lace veils, going with their mothers or chaperons to be confirmed.
Here the duty of the godfather or the godmother comes in; and if a child is an orphan, or has
careless or irreligious parents, the Church holds the godparent responsible that these children
be brought to the bishop to be confirmed.

Notices of confirmation to be held are always given out in the various churches some weeks
prior to the event; and persons desirous of being admitted to the rite are requested to make
known their wish and to give their names to their clergyman. Classes are formed, and instruction
and preparation given during the weeks preceding the day which the bishop has appointed. In
England a noble English lady is as much concerned for her goddaughter through all this important
period as she is for her daughter. In France the obligation is also considered sacred. We have
known of a lady who made the journey from Montpellier to Paris--although she could scarcely
afford the expense--to attend the confirmation of her goddaughter, although the young girl
had a father and mother.

It is a ceremony well worth seeing, either in England or France. The girls walk in long processions
through the streets; the dress uniformly of white with long veils. Youths follow in black suits,
black ties, and gloves; they enter one aisle of the church, the girls the other. When the time
arrives for the laying on of hands, the girls go first, two and two; they give their card or
certificate into the hands of the bishop's chaplain, who stands near to receive them. The candidates
kneel before the bishop, who lays his hands severally on their heads.

Of course persons not belonging to the Episcopal Church do not observe this rite. But as a
belief in baptism is almost universal, there is no reason why the godfather and godmother should
not be chosen and adhered to. We always name our children, or we are apt to, for some dear
friend; and we would all gladly believe that such a friendship, begun at the altar when he
is being consecrated to a Christian life, may go with him and be a help to the dear little
man. In our belligerent independence and our freedom from creeds and cant we have thrown away
too much, and can afford to reassert our belief in and respect for a few old customs.

Royalty has always been a respecter of these powers. King Edward VI. and his sisters were each
baptized when only three days old, and the ceremony, which lasted between two and three days,
took place at night, by torch-light. The child was carried under a canopy, preceded by gentlemen
bearing in state the sponsors' gifts, and attended by a flourish of trumpets.

At a modern caudle party the invitations are sent out a week in advance, and read thus:

"Mr. and Mrs. Brown request the pleasure of your company on Tuesday afternoon, at three o'clock.
18 West Kent Street. Caudle. 'No presents are expected.'"

For the honor of being a godfather one receives a note in the first person, asking the friend
to assume that kindly office, and also mentioning the fact that the name will be so and so.
If the baby is named for the godfather, a very handsome present is usually made; if not, the
godfather or godmother still sends some little token of regard. This, however, is entirely
a matter of fancy. No one is obliged to give a present, of course.

The baby at his christening is shown off in a splendid robe, very much belaced and embroidered,
and it is to be feared that it is a day of disturbance for him. Babies should not be too much
excited; a quiet and humdrum existence, a not too showy nurse, and regular hours are conducive
to a good constitution for these delicate visitors. The gay dresses and jingling ornaments
of the Roman nurses are now denounced by the foreign doctors as being too exciting to the little
eyes that are looking out on a new world. They are very pretty and picturesque, and many a
travelling mamma goes into a large outlay for these bright colors and for the peasant jewelry.
The practice of making a child ride backward in a push-wagon is also sternly denounced by modern
physicians.

Fashionable mammas who give caudle parties should remember that in our harsh climate maternity
is beset by much feebleness as to nerves in both mother and child; therefore a long seclusion
in the nursery is advised before the dangerous period of entertaining one's friends begins.
Let the caudle party wait, and the christening be done quietly in one's own bedroom, if the
infant is feeble. Show off the young stranger at a later date: an ounce of prevention is worth
a pound of cure.

CHAPTER XXX. THE MODERN DINNER-TABLE.

The appointments of the modern dinner-table strikingly indicate that growth of luxury of which
the immediate past has been so fruitful. Up to twenty years ago a dinner, even in the house
of a merchant prince, was a plain affair. There was a white tablecloth of double damask; there
were large, handsome napkins; there was a rich service of solid silver, and perhaps some good
china. Flowers, if used at all, were not in profusion; and as for glasses, only a few of plain
white, or perhaps a green or a red one for claret or hock, were placed at the side of the plate.

Of course there were variations and exceptions to this rule, but they were few and far between.
One man, or often one maid-servant, waited at the table; and, as a protection for the table-cloth,
mats were used, implying the fear that the dish brought from the top of the kitchen-range,
if set down, would leave a spot or stain. All was on a simple or economical plan. The grand
dinners were served by caterers, who sent their men to wait at them, which led to the remark,
often laughed at as showing English stupidity, made by the Marquis of Hartington when he visited
New York at the time of our war. As he looked at old Peter Van Dyck and his colored assistants,
whom he had seen at every house at which he had dined, he remarked, "How much all your servants
resemble each other in America!" It was really an unintentional sarcasm, but it might well
have suggested to our nouveaux riches the propriety of having their own trained servants to
do the work of their houses instead of these outside men. A degree of elegance which we have
not as a nation even yet attained is that of having a well-trained corps of domestic servants.

A mistress of a house should be capable of teaching her servants the method of laying a table
and attending it, if she has to take, as we commonly must, the uneducated Irishman from his
native bogs as a house-servant. If she employs the accomplished and well-recommended foreign
servant, he is too apt to disarrange her establishment by disparaging the scale on which it
is conducted, and to engender a spirit of discontent in her household. Servants of a very high
class, who can assume the entire management of affairs, are only possible to people of great
wealth, and they become tyrants, and wholly detestable to the master and mistress after a short
slavery. One New York butler lately refused to wash dishes, telling his mistress that it would
ruin his finger-nails. But this man was a consummate servant, who laid the table and attended
it, with an ease and grace that gave his mistress that pleasant feeling of certainty that all
would go well, which is the most comfortable of all feelings to a hostess, and without which
dinner-giving is annoyance beyond all words.

The arrangement of a dinner-table and the waiting upon it are the most important of all the
duties of a servant or servants, and any betrayal of ignorance, any nervousness or noise, any
accident, are to be deplored, showing as they do want of experience and lack of training.

No one wishes to invite his friends to be uncomfortable. Those dreadful dinners which Thackeray
describes, at which people with small incomes tried to rival those of large means, will forever
remain in the minds of his readers as among the most painful of all revelations of sham. We
should be real first, and ornamental afterwards.

In a wealthy family a butler and two footmen are employed, and it is their duty to work together
in harmony, the butler having control. The two footmen lay the table, the butler looking on
to see that it is properly done. The butler takes care of the wine, and stands behind his mistress's
chair. Where only one man is employed, the whole duty devolves upon him, and he has generally
the assistance of the parlor-maid. Where there is only a maid-servant, the mistress of the
house must see that all necessary arrangements are made.

The introduction of the extension-table into our long, narrow dining-rooms has led to the expulsion
of the pretty round-table, which is of all others the most cheerful. The extension-table, however,
is almost inevitable, and one of the ordinary size, with two leaves added, will seat twelve
people. The public caterers say that every additional leaf gives room for four more people,
but the hostess, in order to avoid crowding, would be wise if she tested this with her dining-room
chairs. New York dinner-parties are often crowded, sixteen being sometimes asked when the table
will only accommodate fourteen. This is a mistake, as heat and crowding should be avoided.
In country houses, or in Philadelphia, Boston, Washington, and other cities where the dining-rooms
are ordinarily larger than those in a New York house, the danger of crowding, of heat, and
want of ventilation, is more easily avoided; but in a gas-lighted, furnace-heated room in New
York the sufferings of the diners-out are sometimes terrible.

The arrangements for the dinner, whether the party be ten or twenty, should be the same. Much
has been said about the number to be invited, and there is an old saw that one should not invite
"fewer than the Graces nor more than the Muses." This partiality to uneven numbers refers to
the difficulty of seating a party of eight, in which case, if the host and hostess take the
head and foot of the table, two gentlemen and two ladies will come together. But the number
of the Graces being three, no worse number than that could be selected for a dinner-party;
and nine would be equally uncomfortable at an extension-table, as it would be necessary to
seat three on one side and four on the other. Ten is a good number for a small dinner, and
easy to manage. One servant can wait on ten people, and do it well, if well-trained. Twenty-four
people often sit down at a modern dinner-table, and are well served by a butler and two men,
though some luxurious dinner-givers have a man behind each chair. This, however, is ostentation.

A lady, if she issue invitations for a dinner of ten or twenty, should do so a fortnight in
advance, and should have her cards engraved thus:

Mr. and Mrs. James Norman request the pleasure of Mr. and Mrs. John Brown's company at dinner
on Thursday, February eighth, at seven o'clock.

These engraved forms, on note-paper, filled up with the necessary time and date, are very convenient
and elegant, and should be answered by the fortunate recipient immediately, in the most formal
manner, and the engagement should be scrupulously kept if accepted. If the subsequent illness
or death of relatives, or any other cause, renders this impossible, the hostess should be immediately
notified.

A gentleman is never invited without his wife, nor a lady without her husband, unless great
intimacy exists between the parties, and the sudden need of another guest makes the request
imperative.

The usual hour for dinner-parties in America is seven o'clock; but whatever the hour, the guests
should take care to be punctual to the minute. In the hall the gentleman should find a card
with his name, and that of the lady whom he is to take in, written on it, and also a small
boutonniere, which he places in his button-hole. On entering the drawing-room the lady goes
first, not taking her husband's arm. If the gentleman is not acquainted with the lady whom
he is to take in to dinner, he asks his hostess to present him to her, and he endeavors to
place himself on an agreeeble footing with her before they enter the dining-room.

When the last guest has arrived, dinner is ready, and the butler makes his announcement. The
host leads the way, with the lady to whom the dinner is given, and the hostess follows last,
with the gentleman whom she wishes to honor.

The people who enter a modern dining-room find a picture before them, which is the result of
painstaking thought, taste, and experience, and, like all works of art, worthy of study.

The first thought of the observer is, "What a splendid bit of color!" The open-work, white
tablecloth lies on a red ground, and above it rests a mat of red velvet, embroidered with peacock's
feathers and gold lace. Above this stands a large silver salver or oblong tray, lined with
reflecting glass, on which Dresden swan and silver lilies seem floating in a veritable lake.
In the middle of this long tray stands a lofty vase of silver or crystal, with flowers and
fruit cunningly disposed in it, and around it are placed tropical vines. At each of the four
corners of the table stand four ruby glass flagons set in gold, standards of beautiful and
rare designs. Cups or silver-gilt vases, with centres of cut glass, hold the bonbons and smaller
fruits. Four candelabra hold up red wax-candles with red shades, and flat, glass troughs, filled
with flowers, stand opposite each place, grouped in a floral pattern.

At each place, as the servant draws back the chair, the guest sees a bewildering number of
glass goblets, wine and champagne glasses, several forks, knives, and spoons, and a majolica
plate holding oysters on the half shell, with a bit of lemon in the centre of the plate. The
napkin, deftly folded, holds a dinner-roll, which the guest immediately removes. The servants
then, seeing all the guests seated, pass red and black pepper, in silver pepper-pots, on a
silver tray. A small, peculiarly-shaped fork is laid by each plate, at the right hand, for
the oysters. Although some ladies now have all their forks laid on the left hand of the plate,
this, however, is not usual. After the oysters are eaten, the plates are removed, and two kinds
of soup are passed--a white and a brown soup.

During this part of the dinner the guest has time to look at the beautiful Queen Anne silver,
the handsome lamps, if lamps are used (we may mention the fact that about twenty-six candles
will well light a dinner of sixteen persons), and the various colors of lamp and candle shades.
Then the beauty of the flowers, and, as the dinner goes on, the variety of the modern Dresden
china, the Sevres, the Royal Worcester, and the old blue can be discussed and admired.

The service is ... la Russe; that is, everything is handed by the servants. Nothing is seen
on the table except the wines (and only a few of these), the bonbons, and the fruit. No greasy
dishes are allowed. Each lady has a bouquet, possibly a painted reticule of silk filled with
sugar-plums, and sometimes a pretty fan or ribbon with her name or monogram painted on it.

At his right hand each guest finds a goblet of elegantly-engraved glass for water, two of the
broad, flat, flaring shape of the modern champagne glass (although some people are using the
long vase-like glass of the past for champagne), a beautiful Bohemian green glass, apparently
set with gems, for the hock, a ruby-red glass for the claret, two other large white claret
or Burgundy glasses, and three wine-glasses of cut or engraved glass. Harlequin glasses, which
give to the table the effect of a bed of tulips, are in fashion for those who delight in color
and variety.

The hostess may prefer the modern napery, so exquisitely embroidered in gold thread, which
affords an opportunity to show the family coat of arms, or the heraldic animals--the lion and
the two-headed eagle and the griffin--intertwined in graceful shapes around the whole edge
of the table and on the napkins.

As the dinner goes on the guest revels in unexpected surprises in the beauty of the plates,
some of which look as if made of solid gold; and when the Roman punch is served it comes in
the heart of a red, red rose, or in the bosom of a swan, or the cup of a lily, or the "right
little, tight little" life-saying boat. Faience, china, glass, and ice are all pressed into
the service of the Roman punch, and sometimes the prettiest dish of all is hewn out of ice.

We will try to see how all this picture is made, beginning at the laying of the table, the
process of which we will explain in detail in the next chapter.

CHAPTER XXXI. LAYING THE DINNER-TABLE.

The table, after being drawn out to its proper length, should be covered with a cotton-flannel
tablecloth--white, if the table-cover is the ordinary damask; red, if the open work table-cover
is to be used. This broad cotton flannel can be bought for eighty cents a yard. The table-cloth,
if of white damask, should be perfectly ironed, with one long fold down the middle, which must
serve the butler for his mathematical centre. No one can be astray in using fine white damask.
If a lady wishes to have the more rare Russian embroidery, the gold embroidered on the open-work
table-cloth, she can do so, but let her not put any cloth on her table that will not wash.
The mixed-up things trimmed with velvet or satin or ribbon, which are occasionally seen on
vulgar tables, are detestable.

The butler then lays the red velvet carpet, or mat, or ornamental cover--whatever it may be
called--down the centre of the table, to afford a relief of color to the ,pergne.

This is a mere fanciful adjunct, and may be used or not; but it has a very pretty effect over
an openwork, white table-cloth, with the silver tray of the ,pergne resting upon it. In many
families there are silver ,pergnes which are heirlooms. These are now valued for old association's
sake; as are the silver candlesticks and silver compotiers. But where a family does not possess
these table ornaments, a centre piece of glass is used. The flat basket of flowers, over which
the guests could talk, has been discarded, and the ornaments of a dinner-table are apt to be
high, including the lamps and candelabra which at present replace gas.

The table-cloth being laid, the centre and side ornaments placed, the butler sees that each
footman has a clean towel on his arm, and then proceeds to unlock the plate chest and the glass
closet. Measuring with his hand, from the edge of the table to the end of his middle finger,
he places the first glass. This measurement is continued around the table, and secures a uniform
line for the water goblet, and the claret, wine, hock, and champagne glasses, which are grouped
about it. He then causes a plate to be put at each place, large enough to hold the majolica
plate with the oysters, which will come later. One footman is detailed to fold the napkins,
which should be large, thick, fine, and serviceable for this stage of the dinner. The napkins
are not folded in any hotel device, but simply in a three-cornered pyramid that will stand
holding the roll or bread. The knives, forks, and spoons, each of which is wiped by the footman
with his clean towel, so that no dampness of his own hand shall mar their sparkling cleanliness,
are then distributed. These should be all of silver; two knives, three forks, and a soup-spoon
being the usual number laid at each plate.

Before each plate is placed a little salt-cellar, either of silver or china, in some fanciful
shape. Tiny wheelbarrows are much used. A carafe holding water should be put on very late,
and be fresh from the ice-chest.

Very thin glasses are now used for choice sherry and Madeira, and are not put on until the
latter part of the dinner, as they may be broken.

Menu-holders or card-holders of china or silver are often placed before each plate, to hold
the card on which the name of the guest is printed and the bill of fare from which he is to
choose. These may be dispensed with, however, and the menu and name laid on each plate.

The butler now turns his attention to his sideboards and tables, from whence he is to draw
his supplies. Many people make a most ostentatious display of plate and china on their sideboards,
and if one has pretty things why not show them? The poorer and more modest have, on their sideboards,
simply the things which will be needed. But there should be a row of large forks, a row of
large knives, a row of small ones, a row of table-spoons, sauce-ladles, dessert- spoons, fish-slice
and fork, a few tumblers, rows of claret, sherry, and Madeira glasses, and the reserve of dinner-plates.

On another table or sideboard should be placed the finger-bowls and glass dessert-plates, the
smaller spoons and coffee cups and saucers. On the table nearest the door should be the carving-knives
and the first dinner-plates to be used. Here the head footman or the butler divides the fish
and carves the piece de resistance, the fillet of beef, the haunch of venison, the turkey,
or the saddle of mutton. It is from this side-table that all the dinner should be served; if
the dining-room is small, the table can be placed in the hall or adjacent pantry. As the fish
is being served, the first footman should offer Chablis, or some kind of white wine; with the
soup, sherry; with the roast, claret and champagne, each guest being asked if he will have
dry or sweet champagne.

As the plates are removed they should not be kept in the dining- room, but sent to the kitchen
immediately, a maid standing outside to receive them, so that no disorder of the dinner may
reach the senses of the guests, nor even an unpleasant odor. As each plate is removed a fresh
plate must be put in its place--generally a very beautiful piece of Sevres, decorated with
a landscape, flowers, or faces.

Sparkling wines, hock and champagne, are not decanted, but are kept in ice-pails, and opened
as required. On the sideboard is placed the wine decanted for Use, and poured out as needed;
after the game has been handed, decanters of choice Madeira and port are placed before the
host, who sends them round to his guests.

In England a very useful little piece of furniture, called a dinner- wagon, is in order. This
is a series of open shelves, on which are placed the extra napkins or serviettes to be used;
for in England the first heavy napkin is taken away, and a more delicate one brought with the
Roman punch, with the game another, and with the ices still another. On this dinner-wagon are
placed all the dessert- plates and the finger-glasses. On the plate which is to serve for the
ice is a gold ice-spoon, and a silver dessert-knife and fork accompany the finger-bowl and
glass plate. This dinner-wagon also holds the salad-bowl and spoon, of silver, the salad-plates,
and the silver bread-basket, in which should be thin slices of brown bread- and-butter. A china
dish in three compartments, with cheese and butter and biscuits to be passed with the salad,
the extra sauces, the jellies for the meats, the relishes, the radishes and celery, the olives
and the sifted sugar-all things needed as accessaries of the dinner-table-can be put on this
dinner-wagon, or ,tagere, as it is called in France.

No table-spoons should be laid on the table, except those to be used for soup, as the style
of serving ... la Russe precludes their being needed; and the extra spoons, cruets, and casters
are put on the sideboard.

To wait on a large dinner-party the attendants average one to every three people, and when
only a butler and one footman are kept, it is necessary to hire additional servants.

Previous to the announcement of the dinner, the footman places the soup-tureens and the soup-plates
on the side-table. As soon as the oysters are eaten, and the plates removed, the butler begins
with the soup, and sends it round by two footmen, one on each side, each carrying two plates.
Each footman should approach the guests on the left, so that the right hand may be used for
taking the plate. Half a ladleful of soup is quite enough to serve.

Some ladies never allow their butler to do anything but hand the wine, which he does at the
right hand (not the left), asking each person if he will have Sauterne, dry or sweet champagne,
claret, Burgundy, and so on. But really clever butlers serve the soup, carve, and pour out
the wine as well. An inexperienced servant should never serve the wine; it must be done briskly
and neatly, not explosively or carelessly. The overfilling of the glass should be avoided,
and servants should be watched, to see that they give champagne only to those who wish it,
and that they do not overfill glasses for ladies, who rarely drink anything.

A large plate-basket or two, for removing dishes and silver that have been used, are necessary,
and should not be forgotten. The butler rings a bell which communicates with the kitchen when
he requires anything, and after each entr,e or course he thus gives the signal to the cook
to send up another.

Hot dinner-plates are prepared when the fish is removed, and on these hot plates the butler
serves all the meats; the guests are also served with hot plates before the entr,es, except
p t, de foie gras, for which a cold plate is necessary.

Some discretion should be shown by the servant who passes the entr,es. A large table-spoon
and fork should be placed on the dish, and the dish then held low, so that the guest may help
himself easily, the servant standing at his left hand. He should always have a small napkin
over his hand as he passes a dish. A napkin should also be wrapped around the champagne bottle,
as it is often dripping with moisture from the ice-chest. It is the butler's duty to make the
salad, which he should do about half an hour before dinner. There are now so many provocatives
of appetite that it would seem as if we were all, after the manner of Heliogabalus, determined
to eat and die. The best of these is the Roman punch, which, coming after the heavy roasts,
prepares the palate and stomach for the canvas- back ducks or other game. Then comes the salad
and cheese, then the ices and sweets, and then cheese savourie or cheese fondu. This is only
toasted cheese, in a very elegant form, and is served in little silver shells, sometimes as
early in the dinner as just after the oysters, but the favorite time is after the sweets.

The dessert is followed by the liqueurs, which should be poured into very small glasses, and
handed by the butler on a small silver waiter. When the ices are removed, a dessert-plate of
glass, with a finger-bowl, is placed before each person, with two glasses, one for sherry,
the other for claret or Burgundy, and the grapes, peaches, pears, and other fruits are then
passed. After the fruits go round, the sugar-plums and a little dried ginger--a very pleasant
conserve --are passed before the coffee.

The hostess makes the sign for retiring, and the dinner breaks up. The gentlemen are left to
wine and cigars, liqueurs and cognac, and the ladies retire to the drawing-room to chat and
take their coffee.

In the selection of the floral decoration for the table the lady of the house has the final
voice. Flowers which have a very heavy fragrance should not be used. That roses and pinks,
violets and lilacs, are suitable, goes without saying, for they are always delightful; but
the heavy tropical odors of jasmine, orange-blossom, hyacinth, and tuberose should be avoided.
A very pretty decoration is obtained by using flowers of one color, such as Jacqueminot roses,
or scarlet carnations, which, if placed in the gleaming crystal glass, produce a very brilliant
and beautiful effect.

Flowers should not be put on the table until just before dinner is served, as they are apt
to be wilted by the heat and the lights.

We have used the English term footman to indicate what is usually called a waiter in this country.
A waiter in England is a hired hotel-hand, not a private servant.

Much taste and ingenuity are expended on the selection of favors for ladies, and these pretty
fancies--bonbonnieres, painted ribbons and reticules, and fans covered with flowers--add greatly
to the elegance and luxury of our modern dinner-table.

A less reasonable conceit is that of having toys--such as imitation musical instruments, crackers
which make an unpleasant detonation, imitations of negro minstrels, balloons, flags, and pasteboard
lobsters, toads, and insects--presented to each lady. These articles are neither tasteful nor
amusing, and have "no excuse for being" except that they afford an opportunity for the expenditure
of more money.

CHAPTER XXXII. FAVORS AND BONBONNIERES.

Truly "the world is very young for its age." We are never too old to admire a pretty favor
or a tasteful bonbonniere; and, looking back over the season, we remember, as among the most
charming of the favors, those with flowers painted upon silken banners, with the owner's name
intertwined. The technical difficulties of painting upon silk are somewhat conquered, one would
think, in looking at the endless devices composed of satin and painted flowers on the lunch-
tables. Little boxes covered with silk, in eight and six sided forms, with panels let in, on
which are painted acorns and oak leaves, rosebuds or lilies, and always the name or the cipher
of the recipient, are very pretty. The Easter-egg has long been a favorite offering in silk,
satin, plush, and velvet, in covered, egg-shaped boxes containing bonbons; these, laid in a
nest of gold and silver threads in a cloisonn, basket, afford a very pretty souvenir to carry
home from a luncheon.

Menu-holders of delicate gilt-work are also added to the other favors. These pretty little
things sometimes uphold a photograph, or a porcelain plate on which is painted the lady's name,
and also a few flowers. The little porcelain cards are not larger than a visiting-card, and
are often very artistic. The famous and familiar horseshoe, in silver or silver-gilt, holding
up the menu-card, is another pretty favor, and a very nice one to carry home, as it becomes
a penholder when it is put on the writing-table. Wire rests, shaped like those used for muskets
in barracks yards, are also used for the name and menu-cards. Plateaus, shells, baskets, figurettes,
vases holding flowers, dolphins, Tritons, swan, sea animals (in crockery), roses which open
and disclose the sugarplums, sprays of coral, and gilt conch-shells, are all pretty, especially
when filled with flowers.

Baskets in various styles are often seen. One tied with a broad ribbon at the side is very
useful as a work-basket afterwards. Open-work baskets, lined with crimson or scarlet or pink
or blue plush, with another lining of silver paper to protect the plums, are very tasteful.
A very pretty basket is one hung between three gilt handles or poles, and filled with flowers
or candies. Silvered and gilded beetles, or butterflies, fastened on the outside, have a fanciful
effect.

Moss-covered trays holding dried grasses and straw, and piles of chocolates that suggest ammunition,
are decorative and effective.

Wheelbarrows of tiny size for flowers are a favorite conceit. They are made of straw-work,
entirely gilded, or painted black or brown, and picked out with gold; or perhaps pale green,
with a bordering of brown. A very pretty one may be made of old cigarbox wood; on one side
a monogram painted in red and gold, on the other a spray of autumn leaves. Carved-wood barrows
fitted with tin inside may hold a growing plant--stephanotis, hyacinths, ferns, ivy, or any
other hardy plant--and are very pleasing souvenirs.

The designs for reticules and chftelaines are endless. At a very expensive luncheon, to which
twenty-four ladies sat down, a silk reticule a foot square, filled with Maillard's confections
and decorated with an exquisitely painted landscape effect, was presented to each guest. These
lovely reticules may be any shape, and composed of almost any material. A very handsome style
is an eight-sided, melon-shaped bag of black satin, with a decoration of bunches of scarlet
flowers painted or embroidered. Silk braided with gold, brocade, and plush combined, and Turkish
towelling with an applique, of brilliant color, are all suitable and effective.

In the winter a shaded satin muff, in which was hidden a bonbonniere, was the present that
made glad the hearts of twenty- eight ladies. These are easily made in the house, and a plush
muff with a bird's head is a favorite "favor."

A pair of bellows is a pretty and inexpensive bonbonniere. They can be bought at the confectioner's,
and are more satisfactory than when made at home; but if one is ingenious, it is possible,
with a little pasteboard, gilt paper, silk, and glue, to turn out a very pretty little knickknack
of this kind. However, the French do these things so much better than we do that a lady giving
a lunch-party had better buy all her favors at some wholesale place. There is a real economy
in buying such articles at the wholesale stores, for the retail dealers double the price.

Bronze, iron, and glass are all pressed into the service, and occasionally we have at a lunch
a whole military armament of cannon, muskets, swords, bronze helmets, whole suits of armor,
tazza for jewellery, miniature cases, inkstands, and powder-boxes, all to hold a few sugar-plums.

At a christening party all the favors savor of the nursery--splendid cradles of flowers, a
bassinet of brilliante trimmed with ribbons for a bonbonniere, powder-boxes, puffs, little
socks filled with sugar instead of little feet, an infant's cloak standing on end (really over
pasteboard), an infant's hood, and even the flannel shirt has been copied. Of course the baptismal
dish and silver cup are easily imitated.

Perfumery is introduced in little cut-glass bottles, in leaden tubes like paint tubes, in perfumed
artificial flowers, in sachets of powder, and in the handles of fans.

Boxes of satinwood, small wood covers for music and blotting cases, painted by hand, are rather
pretty favors. The plain boxes and book covers can be bought and ornamented by the young artists
of the family. Nothing is prettier than an owl sitting on an ivy vine for one of these. The
owl, indeed, plays a very conspicuous part at the modern dinner-table and luncheon. His power
of looking wise and being foolish at the same time fits him for modern society. He enters it
as a pepper-caster, a feathered bonbonniere, a pickle- holder (in china), and is drawn, painted,
and photographed in every style. A pun is made on his name: "Should owled acquaintance be forgot?"
etc. He is a favorite in jewellery, and is often carved in jade. Indeed, the owl is having
his day, having had the night always to himself.

The squirrel, the dog, "the frog that would a-wooing go," the white duck, the pig, and the
mouse, are all represented in china, and in the various silks and gauzes of French taste, or
in their native skins, or in any of the disguises that people may fancy. Bears with ragged
staffs stand guard over a plate of modern faience, as they do over the gates of Warwick Castle.
Cats mewing, catching mice, playing on the Jews-harp, elephants full of choicest confectionery,
lions and tigers with chocolate insides, and even the marked face and long hair of Oscar Wilde,
the last holding within its ample cranium caraway-seeds instead of brains, played their part
as favors.

The green enamelled dragon-fly, grasshoppers and beetles, flies and wasps, moths and butterflies,
bright-tinted mandarin ducks, peacocks, and ostriches, tortoises cut in pebbles or made of
pasteboard, shrimps and crabs, do all coldly furnish forth the lunch-table as favors and bonbonnieres.
Then come plaster or pasteboard gondolas, skiffs, wherries, steamships, and ferry-boats, all
made with wondrous skill and freighted with caramels. Imitation rackets, battledoor and shuttlecock,
hoops and sticks, castanets, cup and ball, tambourines, guitars, violins, hand-organs, banjos,
and drums, all have their little day as fashionable favors.

Little statuettes of Kate Greenaway's quaint children now appear as favors, and are very charming.
Nor is that "flexible curtain," the fan, left out. Those of paper, pretty but not expensive,
are very common favors. But the opulent offer pretty satin fans painted with the recipient's
monogram, or else a fan which will match flowers and dress. Fans of lace, and of tortoise-shell
and carved ivory and sandal-wood, are sometimes presented, but they are too ostentatious. Let
us say to the givers of feasts, be not too magnificent, but if you give a fan, give one that
is good for something, not a thing which breaks with the "first fall."

A very pretty set of favors, called "fairies," are little groups of children painted on muslin,
with a background of ribbon. The muslin is so thin that the children seem floating on air.
The lady's name is also painted on the ribbon.

We find that favors for gentlemen, such as sunflowers, pin-cushions, small purses, scarf-pins,
and sleeve-buttons, are more useful than those bestowed upon ladies, but not so ornamental.

Very pretty baskets, called huits (the baskets used by the vine- growers to carry earth for
the roots of the vines), are made of straw ornamented with artificial flowers and grasses,
and filled with bonbons.

Little Leghorn hats trimmed with pompons of muslin, blue, pink, or white, are filled with natural
flowers and hung on the arm. These are a lovely variation.

Fruits--the apple, pear, orange, and plum, delightfully realistic-- are made of composition,
and open to disclose most unexpected seeds.

At trowel, a knife, fork, and spoon, of artistically painted wood, and a pair of oars, all
claim a passing notice as artistic novelties.

Bags of plush, and silk embroidered with daisies, are very handsome and expensive favors; heavily
trimmed with lace, they cost four dollars apiece, but are sold a little cheaper by the dozen.
Blue sashes, with flowers painted on paper (and attached to the sash a paper on which may be
written the menu), cost eighteen dollars a dozen. A dish of snails, fearfully realistic, can
be bought for one dollar a plate, fruits for eighteen dollars a dozen, and fans anywhere from
twelve up to a hundred dollars a dozen.

A thousand dollars is not an unusual price for a luncheon, including flowers and favors, for
eighteen to twenty-four guests. Indeed, a luncheon was given last winter for which the hostess
offered a prize for copies in miniature of the musical instruments used in "Patience." They
were furnished to her for three hundred dollars. The names of these now almost obsolete instruments
were rappaka, tibia, archlute, tambour, kiffar, quinteme, rebel, tuckin, archviola, lyre, serpentine,
chluy, viola da gamba, balalaika, gong, ravanastron, monochord, shopkar. The "archlute" is
the mandolin. They represented all countries, and were delicate specimens of toy handiwork.

We have not entered into the vast field of glass, china, porcelain, cloisonn,, Dresden, faience
jugs, boxes, plates, bottles, and vases, which are all used as favors. Indeed, it would be
impossible to describe half of the fancies which minister to modern extravagance. The bonbonniere
can cost anything, from five to five hundred dollars; fifty dollars for a satin box filled
with candy is not an uncommon price. Sometimes, when the box is of oxidized silver--a quaint
copy of the antique from Benvenuto Cellini--this price is not too much; but when it is a thing
which tarnishes in a month, it seems ridiculously extravagant.

We have seen very pretty and artistic cheap favors. Reticules made of bright cotton, or silk
handkerchiefs with borders; cards painted by the artists of the family; palm-leaf fans covered
with real flowers, or painted with imitation ones; sunflowers made of pasteboard, with portfolios
behind them; pretty little parasols of flowers; Little Red Riding-hood, officiating as a receptacle
for stray pennies; Japanese teapots, with the "cozy" made at home; little doyleys wrought with
delightful designs from "Pretty Peggy," and numberless other graceful and charming trifles.

CHAPTER XXXIII. DINNER-TABLE NOVELTIES.

One would think that modern luxury had reached its ultimatum in the delicate refinements of
dinner-giving, but each dinner-table reveals the fact that this is an inexhaustible subject.
The floral world is capable of an infinity of surprises, and the last one is a cameo of flowers
on a door, shaped like a four-leaved clover. The guests are thus assured of good-luck. The
horseshoe having been so much used that it is now almost obsolete, except in jewelry, the clover-leaf
has come in. A very beautiful dinner far up Fifth Avenue had this winter an entirely new idea,
inasmuch as the flowers were put overhead. The delicate vine, resembling green asparagus in
its fragility, was suspended from the chandelier to the four corners of the room, and on it
were hung delicate roses, lilies-of-the-valley, pinks, and fragrant jasmine, which sent down
their odors, and occasionally dropped themselves into a lady's lap. This is an exquisite bit
of luxury.

Then the arrival, two months before Easter, of the fragrant, beautiful Easter lilies has added
a magnificent and stately effect to the central bouquets. It has been found that the island
of Bermuda is a great reservoir of these bulbs, which are sent up, like their unfragrant rivals
the onions, by the barrelful. Even a piece of a bulb will produce from three to five lilies,
so that these fine flowers are more cheap and plenty in January than usually in April. A dining-room,
square in shape, hung with richly-embroidered, old- gold tapestry, with a round table set for
twenty, with silver and glass and a great bunch of lilies and green ferns in the middle, and
a "crazy quilt" of flowers over one's head, may well reproduce the sense of dreamland which
modern luxury is trying to follow.

Truly we live in the days of Aladdin. Six weeks after the ground was broken in Secretary Whitney's
garden in Washington for his ballroom, the company assembled in a magnificent apartment with
fluted gold- ceiling and crimson brocade hangings, bronzes, statues, and Dresden candlesticks,
and a large wood fire at one end, in which logs six feet long were burning--all looking as
if it were part of an old baronial castle of the Middle Ages.

The florists will furnish you red clovers in January if you give your order in October. Great
bunches of flowers, of a pure scarlet unmixed with any other color, are very fashionable, and
the effect in a softly-lighted room is most startling and beautiful.

The lighting of rooms by means of lamps and candles is giving hostesses great annoyance. There
is scarcely a dinner-party but the candles set fire to their fringed shades, and a conflagration
ensues. Then the new lamps, which give such a resplendent light, have been known to melt the
metal about the wick, and the consequences have been disastrous. The next move will probably
be the dipping of the paper in some asbestos or other anti-inflammable substance, so that there
will be no danger of fire at the dinner- table. The screens put over the candles should not
have this paper- fringe; it is very dangerous. But if a candle screen takes fire, have the
coolness to let it burn itself up without touching it, as thus it will be entirely innocuous,
although rather appalling to look at. Move a plate under it to catch the flying fragments,
and no harm will be done; but a well-intentioned effort to blow it out or to remove it generally
results in a very much more wide-spread conflagration.

China and glass go on improving; and there are jewelled goblets and centre-pieces of yellow
glass covered with gold and what looks like jewels. Knives and forks are now to be had with
crystal handles set in silver, very ornamental and clean-looking; these come from Bohemia.
The endless succession of beautiful plates are more and more Japanese in tone.

Satsuma vases and jugs are often sent to a lady, full of beautiful roses, thus making a lasting
souvenir of what would be a perishable gift. These Satsuma jugs are excellent things in which
to plant hyacinths, and they look well in the centre of the dinner-table with these flowers
growing in them.

Faded flowers can be entirely restored to freshness by clipping the stems and putting them
in very hot water; then set them away from the gas and furnace heat, and they come on the dinner-table
fresh for several days after their disappearance in disgrace as faded or jaded bouquets. Flowers
thus restored have been put in a cold library, where the water, once hot, has frozen stiff,
and yet have borne these two extremes of temperature without loss of beauty--in fact, have
lasted presentably from Monday morning to Saturday night. What flowers cannot stand is the
air we all live in--at what cost to our freshness we find out in the spring--the overheated
furnace and gas-laden air of the modern dining-room. The secret of the hot-water treatment
is said to be this: the sap is sent up into the flower instead of lingering in the stems. Roses
respond to this treatment wonderfully.

The fashion of wearing low-necked dresses at dinner has become so pronounced that the moralists
begin to issue weekly essays against this revival as if it had never been done before. Our
virtuous grandmothers would be astonished to hear that their ball-dresses (never cut high)
were so immoral and indecent. The fact remains that a sleeveless gown, cut in a Pompadour form,
is far more of a revelation of figure than a low-necked dinner-dress properly made. There is
no line of the figure so dear to the artist as that one revealed from the nape of the neck
to the shoulder. A beautiful back is the delight of the sculptor. No lady who understands the
fine-art of dress would ever have her gown cut too low: it is ugly, besides being immodest.
The persons who bring discredit on fashion are those who misinterpret it. The truly artistic
modiste cuts a low-necked dress to reveal the fine lines of the back, but it is never in France
cut too low in front. The excessive heat of an American dining-room makes this dress very much
more comfortable than the high dresses which were brought in several years ago, because a princess
had a goitre which she wished to disguise:

No fulminations against fashion have ever effected reforms. We must take fashion as we find
it, and strive to mould dress to our own style, not slavishly adhering to, but respectfully
following, the reigning mode, remembering that all writings and edicts against this sub-ruler
of the world are like sunbeams falling on a stone wall. The sunbeams vanish, but the stone
wall remains.

