Realising at last that the problem of relationship must be left to solve itself if he did not
want to dissipate and consume his mind entirely, Mr. Direck turned to his hostess, who was
enjoying a brief lull in her administrative duties, and told her what a memorable thing the
meeting of Mr. Britling in his own home would be in his life, and how very highly America was
coming to esteem Mr. Britling and his essays. He found that with a slight change of person,
one of his premeditated openings was entirely serviceable here. And he went on to observe that
it was novel and entertaining to find Mr. Britling driving his own automobile and to note that
it was an automobile of American manufacture. In America they had standardised and systematised
the making of such things as automobiles to an extent that would, he thought, be almost startling
to Europeans. It was certainly startling to the European manufacturers. In illustration of
that he might tell a little story of a friend of his called Robinson--a man who curiously enough
in general build and appearance was very reminiscent indeed of Mr. Britling. He had been telling
Mr. Britling as much on his way here from the station. His friend was concerned with several
others in one of the biggest attacks that had ever been made upon what one might describe in
general terms as the thousand-dollar light automobile market. What they said practically was
this: This market is a jig-saw puzzle waiting to be put together and made one. We are going
to do it. But that was easier to figure out than to do. At the very outset of this attack he
and his associates found themselves up against an unexpected and very difficult proposition....

At first Mrs. Britling had listened to Mr. Direck with an almost undivided attention, but as
he had developed his opening the feast upon the blue linen table had passed on to a fresh phase
that demanded more and more of her directive intelligence. The two little boys appeared suddenly
at her elbows. "Shall we take the plates and get the strawberries, Mummy?" they asked simultaneously.
Then one of the neat maids in the background had to be called up and instructed in undertones,
and Mr. Direck saw that for the present Robinson's illuminating experience was not for her
ears. A little baffled, but quite understanding how things were, he turned to his neighbour
on his left....

The girl really had an extraordinarily pretty smile, and there was something in her soft bright
brown eye--like the movement of some quick little bird. And--she was like somebody he knew!
Indeed she was. She was quite ready to be spoken to.

"I was telling Mrs. Britling," said Mr. Direck, "what a very great privilege I esteem it to
meet Mr. Britling in this highly familiar way."

"You've not met him before?"

"I missed him by twenty-four hours when he came through Boston on the last occasion. Just twenty-four
hours. It was a matter of very great regret to me."

"I wish I'd been paid to travel round the world."

"You must write things like Mr. Britling and then Mr. Kahn will send you."

"Don't you think if I promised well?"

"You'd have to write some promissory notes, I think--just to convince him it was all right."

The young lady reflected on Mr. Britling's good fortune.

"He saw India. He saw Japan. He had weeks in Egypt. And he went right across America."

Mr. Direck had already begun on the liner to adapt himself to the hopping inconsecutiveness
of English conversation. He made now what he felt was quite a good hop, and he dropped his
voice to a confidential undertone. (It was probably Adam in his first conversation with Eve,
who discovered the pleasantness of dropping into a confidential undertone beside a pretty ear
with a pretty wave of hair above it.)

"It was in India, I presume," murmured Mr. Direck, "that Mr. Britling made the acquaintance
of the coloured gentleman?"

"Coloured gentleman!" She gave a swift glance down the table as though she expected to see
something purple with yellow spots. "Oh, that is one of Mr. Lawrence Carmine's young men!"
she explained even more confidentially and with an air of discussing the silver bowl of roses
before him. "He's a great authority on Indian literature, he belongs to a society for making
things pleasant for Indian students in London, and he has them down."

"And Mr. Lawrence Carmine?" he pursued.

Even more intimately and confidentially she indicated Mr. Carmine, as it seemed by a motion
of her eyelash.

Mr. Direck prepared to be even more sotto-voce and to plumb a much profounder mystery. His
eye rested on the perambulator; he leant a little nearer to the ear.... But the strawberries
interrupted him.

"Strawberries!" said the young lady, and directed his regard to his left shoulder by a little
movement of her head.

He found one of the boys with a high-piled plate ready to serve him.

And then Mrs. Britling resumed her conversation with him. She was so ignorant, she said, of
things American, that she did not even know if they had strawberries there. At any rate, here
they were at the crest of the season, and in a very good year. And in the rose season too.
It was one of the dearest vanities of English people to think their apples and their roses
and their strawberries the best in the world.

"And their complexions," said Mr. Direck, over the pyramid of fruit, quite manifestly intending
a compliment. So that was all right.... But the girl on the left of him was speaking across
the table to the German tutor, and did not hear what he had said. So that even if it wasn't
very neat it didn't matter....

Then he remembered that she was like that old daguerreotype of a cousin of his grandmother's
that he had fallen in love with when he was a boy. It was her smile. Of course! Of course!...
And he'd sort of adored that portrait.... He felt a curious disposition to tell her as much....

"What makes this visit even more interesting if possible to me," he said to Mrs. Britling,
"than it would otherwise be, is that this Essex country is the country in which my maternal
grandmother was raised, and also long way back my mother's father's people. My mother's father's
people were very early New England people indeed.... Well, no. If I said Mayflower it wouldn't
be true. But it would approximate. They were Essex Hinkinsons. That's what they were. I must
be a good third of me at least Essex. My grandmother was an Essex Corner, I must confess I've
had some thought--"

"Corner?" said the young lady at his elbow sharply.

"I was telling Mrs. Britling I had some thought--"

"But about those Essex relatives of yours?"

"Well, of finding if they were still about in these parts.... Say! I haven't dropped a brick,
have I?"

He looked from one face to another.

"She's a Corner," said Mrs. Britling.

"Well," said Mr. Direck, and hesitated for a moment. It was so delightful that one couldn't
go on being just discreet. The atmosphere was free and friendly. His intonation disarmed offence.
And he gave the young lady the full benefit of a quite expressive eye. "I'm very pleased to
meet you, Cousin Corner. How are the old folks at home?"

Section 10

The bright interest of this consulship helped Mr. Direck more than anything to get the better
of his Robinson-anecdote crave, and when presently he found his dialogue with Mr. Britling
resumed, he turned at once to this remarkable discovery of his long lost and indeed hitherto
unsuspected relative. "It's an American sort of thing to do, I suppose," he said apologetically,
"but I almost thought of going on, on Monday, to Market Saffron, which was the locality of
the Hinkinsons, and just looking about at the tombstones in the churchyard for a day or so."

"Very probably," said Mr. Britling, "you'd find something about them in the parish registers.
Lots of our registers go back three hundred years or more. I'll drive you over in my lil' old car."

"Oh! I wouldn't put you to that trouble," said Mr. Direck hastily.

"It's no trouble. I like the driving. What I have had of it. And while we're at it, we'll come
back by Harborough High Oak and look up the Corner pedigree. They're all over that district
still. And the road's not really difficult; it's only a bit up and down and roundabout."

"I couldn't think, Mr. Britling, of putting you to that much trouble."

"It's no trouble. I want a day off, and I'm dying to take Gladys--"

"Gladys?" said Mr. Direck with sudden hope.

"That's my name for the lil' car. I'm dying to take her for something like a decent run. I've
only had her out four times altogether, and I've not got her up yet to forty miles. Which I'm
told she ought to do easily. We'll consider that settled."

For the moment Mr. Direck couldn't think of any further excuse. But it was very clear in his
mind that something must happen; he wished he knew of somebody who could send a recall telegram
from London, to prevent him committing himself to the casual destinies of Mr. Britling's car
again. And then another interest became uppermost in his mind.

"You'd hardly believe me," he said, "if I told you that that Miss Corner of yours has a quite
extraordinary resemblance to a miniature I've got away there in America of a cousin of my maternal
grandmother's. She seems a very pleasant young lady."

But Mr. Britling supplied no further information about Miss Corner.

"It must be very interesting," he said, "to come over here and pick up these American families
of yours on the monuments and tombstones. You know, of course, that district south of Evesham
where every other church monument bears the stars and stripes, the arms of departed Washingtons.
I doubt though if you'll still find the name about there. Nor will you find many Hinkinsons
in Market Saffron. But lots of this country here has five or six hundred-year-old families
still flourishing. That's why Essex is so much more genuinely Old England than Surrey, say,
or Kent. Round here you'll find Corners and Fairlies, and then you get Capels, and then away
down towards Dunmow and Braintree Maynards and Byngs. And there are oaks and hornbeams in the
park about Claverings that have echoed to the howling of wolves and the clank of men in armour.
All the old farms here are moated--because of the wolves. Claverings itself is Tudor, and rather
fine too. And the cottages still wear thatch...."

He reflected. "Now if you went south of London instead of northward it's all different. You're
in a different period, a different society. You're in London suburbs right down to the sea.
You'll find no genuine estates left, not of our deep-rooted familiar sort. You'll find millionaires
and that sort of people, sitting in the old places. Surrey is full of rich stockbrokers, company-promoters,
bookies, judges, newspaper proprietors. Sort of people who fence the paths across their parks.
They do something to the old places--I don't know what they do--but instantly the countryside
becomes a villadom. And little sub-estates and red-brick villas and art cottages spring up.
And a kind of new, hard neatness. And pneumatic tyre and automobile spirit advertisements,
great glaring boards by the roadside. And all the poor people are inspected and rushed about
until they forget who their grandfathers were. They become villa parasites and odd-job men,
and grow basely rich and buy gramophones. This Essex and yonder Surrey are as different as
Russia and Germany. But for one American who comes to look at Essex, twenty go to Godalming
and Guildford and Dorking and Lewes and Canterbury. Those Surrey people are not properly English
at all. They are strenuous. You have to get on or get out. They drill their gardeners, lecture
very fast on agricultural efficiency, and have miniature rifle ranges in every village. It's
a county of new notice-boards and barbed-wire fences; there's always a policeman round the
corner. They dress for dinner. They dress for everything. If a man gets up in the night to
look for a burglar he puts on the correct costume--or doesn't go. They've got a special scientific
system for urging on their tramps. And they lock up their churches on a week-day. Half their
soil is hard chalk or a rationalistic sand, only suitable for bunkers and villa foundations.
And they play golf in a large, expensive, thorough way because it's the thing to do.... Now
here in Essex we're as lax as the eighteenth century. We hunt in any old clothes. Our soil
is a rich succulent clay; it becomes semi-fluid in winter--when we go about in waders shooting
duck. All our fingerposts have been twisted round by facetious men years ago. And we pool our
breeds of hens and pigs. Our roses and oaks are wonderful; that alone shows that this is the
real England. If I wanted to play golf--which I don't, being a decent Essex man--I should have
to motor ten miles into Hertfordshire. And for rheumatics and longevity Surrey can't touch
us. I want you to be clear on these points, because they really will affect your impressions
of this place.... This country is a part of the real England--England outside London and outside
manufactures. It's one with Wessex and Mercia or old Yorkshire--or for the matter of that with
Meath or Lothian. And it's the essential England still...."

Section 11

It detracted a little from Mr. Direck's appreciation of this flow of information that it was
taking them away from the rest of the company. He wanted to see more of his new-found cousin,
and what the baby and the Bengali gentleman--whom manifestly one mustn't call "coloured"--and
the large-nosed lady and all the other inexplicables would get up to. Instead of which Mr.
Britling was leading him off alone with an air of showing him round the premises, and talking
too rapidly and variously for a question to be got in edgeways, much less any broaching of
the matter that Mr. Direck had come over to settle.

There was quite a lot of rose garden, it made the air delicious, and it was full of great tumbling
bushes of roses and of neglected standards, and it had a long pergola of creepers and trailers
and a great arbour, and underneath over the beds everywhere, contrary to all the rules, the
blossom of a multitude of pansies and stock and little trailing plants swarmed and crowded
and scrimmaged and drilled and fought great massed attacks. And then Mr. Britling talked their
way round a red-walled vegetable garden with an abundance of fruit trees, and through a door
into a terraced square that had once been a farmyard, outside the converted barn. The barn
doors had been replaced by a door-pierced window of glass, and in the middle of the square
space a deep tank had been made, full of rainwater, in which Mr. Britling remarked casually
that "everybody" bathed when the weather was hot. Thyme and rosemary and suchlike sweet-scented
things grew on the terrace about the tank, and ten trimmed little trees of Arbor vitae stood
sentinel. Mr. Direck was tantalisingly aware that beyond some lilac bushes were his new-found
cousin and the kindred young woman in blue playing tennis with the Indian and another young
man, while whenever it was necessary the large-nosed lady crossed the stage and brooded soothingly
over the perambulator. And Mr. Britling, choosing a seat from which Mr. Direck just couldn't
look comfortably through the green branches at the flying glimpses of pink and blue and white
and brown, continued to talk about England and America in relation to each other and everything
else under the sun.

Presently through a distant gate the two small boys were momentarily visible wheeling small
but serviceable bicycles, followed after a little interval by the German tutor. Then an enormous
grey cat came slowly across the garden court, and sat down to listen respectfully to Mr. Britling.
The afternoon sky was an intense blue, with little puff-balls of cloud lined out across it.

Occasionally, from chance remarks of Mr. Britling's, Mr. Direck was led to infer that his first
impressions as an American visitor were being related to his host, but as a matter of fact
he was permitted to relate nothing; Mr. Britling did all the talking. He sat beside his guest
and spirted and played ideas and reflections like a happy fountain in the sunshine.

Mr. Direck sat comfortably, and smoked with quiet appreciation the one after-lunch cigar he
allowed himself. At any rate, if he himself felt rather word-bound, the fountain was nimble
and entertaining. He listened in a general sort of way to the talk, it was quite impossible
to follow it thoughtfully throughout all its chinks and turnings, while his eyes wandered about
the garden and went ever and again to the flitting tennis-players beyond the green. It was
all very gay and comfortable and complete; it was various and delightful without being in the
least opulent; that was one of the little secrets America had to learn. It didn't look as though
it had been made or bought or cost anything, it looked as though it had happened rather luckily....

Mr. Britling's talk became like a wide stream flowing through Mr. Direck's mind, bearing along
momentary impressions and observations, drifting memories of all the crowded English sights
and sounds of the last five days, filmy imaginations about ancestral names and pretty cousins,
scraps of those prepared conversational openings on Mr. Britling's standing in America, the
explanation about the lecture club, the still incompletely forgotten purport of the Robinson
anecdote....

"Nobody planned the British estate system, nobody planned the British aristocratic system,
nobody planned the confounded constitution, it came about, it was like layer after layer wrapping
round an agate, but you see it came about so happily in a way, it so suited the climate and
the temperament of our people and our island, it was on the whole so cosy, that our people
settled down into it, you can't help settling down into it, they had already settled down by
the days of Queen Anne, and Heaven knows if we shall ever really get away again. We're like
that little shell the Lingula, that is found in the oldest rocks and lives to-day: it fitted
its easy conditions, and it has never modified since. Why should it? It excretes all its disturbing
forces. Our younger sons go away and found colonial empires. Our surplus cottage children emigrate
to Australia and Canada or migrate into the towns. It doesn't alter this...."

Section 12

Mr. Direck's eye had come to rest upon the barn, and its expression changed slowly from lazy
appreciation to a brightening intelligence. Suddenly he resolved to say something. He resolved
to say it so firmly that he determined to say it even if Mr. Britling went on talking all the time.

"I suppose, Mr. Britling," he said, "this barn here dates from the days of Queen Anne."

"The walls of the yard here are probably earlier: probably monastic. That grey patch in the
corner, for example. The barn itself is Georgian."

"And here it is still. And this farmyard, here it is still."

Mr. Britling was for flying off again, but Mr. Direck would not listen; he held on like a man
who keeps his grip on a lasso.

"There's one thing I would like to remark about your barn, Mr. Britling, and I might, while
I am at it, say the same thing about your farmyard."

Mr. Britling was held. "What's that?" he asked.

"Well," said Mr. Direck, "the point that strikes me most about all this is that that barn isn't
a barn any longer, and that this farmyard isn't a farmyard. There isn't any wheat or chaff
or anything of that sort in the barn, and there never will be again: there's just a pianola
and a dancing floor, and if a cow came into this farmyard everybody in the place would be shooing
it out again. They'd regard it as a most unnatural object."

He had a pleasant sense of talking at last. He kept right on. He was moved to a sweeping generalisation.

"You were so good as to ask me, Mr. Britling, a little while ago, what my first impression
of England was. Well, Mr. Britling, my first impression of England that seems to me to matter
in the least is this: that it looks and feels more like the traditional Old England than any
one could possibly have believed, and that in reality it is less like the traditional Old England
than any one would ever possibly have imagined."

He was carried on even further. He made a tremendous literary epigram. "I thought," he said,
"when I looked out of the train this morning that I had come to the England of Washington Irving.
I find it is not even the England of Mrs. Humphry Ward."

CHAPTER THE SECOND

MR. BRITLING CONTINUES HIS EXPOSITION

Section 1

Mr. Direck found little reason to revise his dictum in the subsequent experiences of the afternoon.
Indeed the afternoon and the next day were steadily consistent in confirming what a very good
dictum it had been. The scenery was the traditional scenery of England, and all the people
seemed quicker, more irresponsible, more chaotic, than any one could have anticipated, and
entirely inexplicable by any recognised code of English relationships....

"You think that John Bull is dead and a strange generation is wearing his clothes," said Mr.
Britling. "I think you'll find very soon it's the old John Bull. Perhaps not Mrs. Humphry Ward's
John Bull, or Mrs. Henry Wood's John Bull but true essentially to Shakespeare, Fielding, Dickens,
Meredith...."

"I suppose," he added, "there are changes. There's a new generation grown up...."

He looked at his barn and the swimming pool. "It's a good point of yours about the barn," he
said. "What you say reminds me of that very jolly thing of Kipling's about the old mill-wheel
that began by grinding corn and ended by driving dynamos....

"Only I admit that barn doesn't exactly drive a dynamo....

"To be frank, it's just a pleasure barn....

"The country can afford it...."

Section 2

He left it at that for the time, but throughout the afternoon Mr. Direck had the gratification
of seeing his thought floating round and round in the back-waters of Mr. Britling's mental
current. If it didn't itself get into the stream again its reflection at any rate appeared
and reappeared. He was taken about with great assiduity throughout the afternoon, and he got
no more than occasional glimpses of the rest of the Dower House circle until six o'clock in
the evening.

Meanwhile the fountains of Mr. Britling's active and encyclopædic mind played steadily.

He was inordinately proud of England, and he abused her incessantly. He wanted to state England
to Mr. Direck as the amiable summation of a grotesque assembly of faults. That was the view
into which the comforts and prosperities of his middle age had brought him from a radicalism
that had in its earlier stages been angry and bitter. And for Mr. Britling England was "here."
Essex was the county he knew. He took Mr. Direck out from his walled garden by a little door
into a trim paddock with two white goals. "We play hockey here on Sundays," he said in a way
that gave Mr. Direck no hint of the practically compulsory participation of every visitor to
Matching's Easy in this violent and dangerous exercise, and thence they passed by a rich deep
lane and into a high road that ran along the edge of the deer park of Claverings. "We will
call in on Claverings later," said Mr. Britling. "Lady Homartyn has some people there for the
week-end, and you ought to see the sort of thing it is and the sort of people they are. She
wanted us to lunch there to-morrow, but I didn't accept that because of our afternoon hockey."

Mr. Direck received this reason uncritically.

The village reminded Mr. Direck of Abbey's pictures. There was an inn with a sign standing
out in the road, a painted sign of the Clavering Arms; it had a water trough (such as Mr. Weller
senior ducked the dissenter in) and a green painted table outside its inviting door. There
were also a general shop and a number of very pleasant cottages, each marked with the Mainstay
crest. All this was grouped about a green with real geese drilling thereon. Mr. Britling conducted
his visitor (through a lych gate) into the church-yard, and there they found mossy, tumble-down
tombstones, one with a skull and cross-bones upon it, that went back to the later seventeenth
century. In the aisle of the church were three huge hatchments, and there was a side chapel
devoted to the Mainstay family and the Barons Homartyn, with a series of monuments that began
with painted Tudor effigies and came down to a vast stained glass window of the vilest commercial
Victorian. There were also mediæval brasses of parish priests, and a marble crusader and his
lady of some extinguished family which had ruled Matching's Easy before the Mainstays came.
And as the two gentlemen emerged from the church they ran against the perfect vicar, Mr. Dimple,
ample and genial, with an embracing laugh and an enveloping voice. "Come to see the old country,"
he said to Mr. Direck. "So Good of you Americans to do that! So Good of you...."

There was some amiable sparring between the worthy man and Mr. Britling about bringing Mr.
Direck to church on Sunday morning. "He's terribly Lax," said Mr. Dimple to Mr. Direck, smiling
radiantly. "Terribly Lax. But then nowadays Everybody is so Lax. And he's very Good to my Coal
Club; I don't know what we should do without him. So I just admonish him. And if he doesn't
go to church, well, anyhow he doesn't go anywhere else. He may be a poor churchman, but anyhow
he's not a dissenter...."

"In England, you see," Mr. Britling remarked, after they had parted from the reverend gentleman,
"we have domesticated everything. We have even domesticated God."

For awhile Mr. Britling showed Mr. Direck English lanes, and then came back along narrow white
paths across small fields of rising wheat, to the village and a little gate that led into the park.

"Well," said Mr. Direck, "what you say about domestication does seem to me to be very true
indeed. Why! even those clouds up there look as though they had a shepherd and were grazing."

"Ready for shearing almost," said Mr. Britling.

"Indeed," said Mr. Direck, raising his voice a little, "I've seen scarcely anything in England
that wasn't domesticated, unless it was some of your back streets in London."

Mr. Britling seemed to reflect for a moment. "They're an excrescence," he said....

Section 3

The park had a trim wildness like nature in an old Italian picture; dappled fallow deer grouped
close at hand and looked at the two men fearlessly; the path dropped through oak trees and
some stunted bracken to a little loitering stream, that paused ever and again to play at ponds
and waterfalls and bear a fleet of water-lily leaves; and then their way curved round in an
indolent sweep towards the cedars and shrubberies of the great house. The house looked low
and extensive to an American eye, and its red-brick chimneys rose like infantry in open order
along its extended line. There was a glimpse of flower-bright garden and terraces to the right
as they came round the corner to the front of the house through a path cut in the laurel bushes.

Mr. Britling had a moment of exposition as they approached the entrance.

"I expect we shall find Philbert from the Home Office--or is it the Local Government Board?--and
Sir Thomas Loot, the Treasury man. There may be some other people of that sort, the people
we call the Governing Class. Wives also. And I rather fancy the Countess of Frensham is coming,
she's strong on the Irish Question, and Lady Venetia Trumpington, who they say is a beauty--I've
never seen her. It's Lady Homartyn's way to expect me to come in--not that I'm an important
item at these week-end social feasts--but she likes to see me on the table--to be nibbled at
if any one wants to do so--like the olives and the salted almonds. And she always asks me to
lunch on Sunday and I always refuse--because of the hockey. So you see I put in an appearance
on the Saturday afternoon...."

They had reached the big doorway.

It opened into a large cool hall adorned with the heads of hippopotami and rhinoceroses and
a stuffed lion, and furnished chiefly with a vast table on which hats and sticks and newspapers
were littered. A manservant with a subdued, semi-confidential manner, conveyed to Mr. Britling
that her ladyship was on the terrace, and took the hats and sticks that were handed to him
and led the way through the house. They emerged upon a broad terrace looking out under great
cedar trees upon flower beds and stone urns and tennis lawns and yew hedges that dipped to
give a view of distant hills. On the terrace were grouped perhaps a dozen people for the most
part holding teacups, they sat in deck chairs and folding seats about a little table that bore
the tea-things. Lady Homartyn came forward to welcome the newcomers.

Mr. Direck was introduced as a travelling American gratified to see a typical English country
house, and Lady Homartyn in an habituated way ran over the points of her Tudor specimen. Mr.
Direck was not accustomed to titled people, and was suddenly in doubt whether you called a
baroness "My Lady" or "Your Ladyship," so he wisely avoided any form of address until he had
a lead from Mr. Britling. Mr. Britling presently called her "Lady Homartyn." She took Mr. Direck
and sat him down beside a lady whose name he didn't catch, but who had had a lot to do with
the British Embassy at Washington, and then she handed Mr. Britling over to the Rt. Honble.
George Philbert, who was anxious to discuss certain points in the latest book of essays. The
conversation of the lady from Washington was intelligent but not exacting, and Mr. Direck was
able to give a certain amount of attention to the general effect of the scene.

He was a little disappointed to find that the servants didn't wear livery. In American magazine
pictures and in American cinematograph films of English stories and in the houses of very rich
Americans living in England, they do so. And the Mansion House is misleading; he had met a
compatriot who had recently dined at the Mansion House, and who had described "flunkeys" in
hair-powder and cloth of gold--like Thackeray's Jeames Yellowplush. But here the only servants
were two slim, discreet and attentive young gentlemen in black coats with a gentle piety in
their manner instead of pride. And he was a little disappointed too by a certain lack of splendour
in the company. The ladies affected him as being ill-dressed; there was none of the hard snap,
the "There! and what do you say to it?" about them of the well-dressed American woman, and
the men too were not so much tailored as unobtrusively and yet grammatically clothed.

Section 4

He was still only in the fragmentary stage of conversation when everything was thrown into
commotion by the important arrival of Lady Frensham, and there was a general reshuffling of
places. Lady Frensham had arrived from London by automobile; she appeared in veils and swathings
and a tremendous dust cloak, with a sort of nephew in her train who had driven the car. She
was manifestly a constitutionally triumphant woman. A certain afternoon lassitude vanished
in the swirl of her arrival. Mr. Philbert removed wrappings and handed them to the manservant.

"I lunched with Sir Edward Carson to-day, my dear," she told Lady Homartyn, and rolled a belligerent
eye at Philbert.

"And is he as obdurate as ever?" asked Sir Thomas.

"Obdurate! It's Redmond who's obdurate," cried Lady Frensham. "What do you say, Mr. Britling?"

"A plague on both your parties," said Mr. Britling.

"You can't keep out of things like that," said Lady Frensham with the utmost gusto, "when the
country's on the very verge of civil war.... You people who try to pretend there isn't a grave
crisis when there is one, will be more accountable than any one--when the civil war does come.
It won't spare you. Mark my words!"

The party became a circle.

Mr. Direck found himself the interested auditor of a real English country-house week-end political
conversation. This at any rate was like the England of which Mrs. Humphry Ward's novels had
informed him, but yet not exactly like it. Perhaps that was due to the fact that for the most
part these novels dealt with the England of the 'nineties, and things had lost a little in
dignity since those days. But at any rate here were political figures and titled people, and
they were talking about the "country."...

Was it possible that people of this sort did "run" the country, after all?... When he had read
Mrs. Humphry Ward in America he had always accepted this theory of the story quite easily,
but now that he saw and heard them--!

But all governments and rulers and ruling classes when you look at them closely are incredible....

"I don't believe the country is on the verge of civil war," said Mr. Britling.

"Facts!" cried Lady Frensham, and seemed to wipe away delusions with a rapid gesture of her hands.

"You're interested in Ireland, Mr. Dirks?" asked Lady Homartyn.

"We see it first when we come over," said Mr. Direck rather neatly, and after that he was free
to attend to the general discussion.

Lady Frensham, it was manifest, was one of that energetic body of aristocratic ladies who were
taking up an irreconcilable attitude against Home Rule "in any shape or form" at that time.
They were rapidly turning British politics into a system of bitter personal feuds in which
all sense of imperial welfare was lost. A wild ambition to emulate the extremest suffragettes
seems to have seized upon them. They insulted, they denounced, they refused every invitation
lest they should meet that "traitor" the Prime Minister, they imitated the party hatreds of
a fiercer age, and even now the moderate and politic Philbert found himself treated as an invisible
object. They were supported by the extremer section of the Tory press, and the most extraordinary
writers were set up to froth like lunatics against the government as "traitors," as men who
"insulted the King"; the Morning Post and the lighter-witted side of the Unionist press generally
poured out a torrent of partisan nonsense it is now almost incredible to recall. Lady Frensham,
bridling over Lady Homartyn's party, and for a time leaving Mr. Britling, hurried on to tell
of the newest developments of the great feud. She had a wonderful description of Lady Londonderry
sitting opposite "that old rascal, the Prime Minister," at a performance of Mozart's Zauberflöte.

"If looks could kill!" cried Lady Frensham with tremendous gusto.

"Sir Edward is quite firm that Ulster means to fight. They have machine-guns--ammunition. And
I am sure the army is with us...."

"Where did they get those machine-guns and ammunition?" asked Mr. Britling suddenly.

"Ah! that's a secret," cried Lady Frensham.

"Um," said Mr. Britling.

"You see," said Lady Frensham; "it will be civil war! And yet you writing people who have influence
do nothing to prevent it!"

"What are we to do, Lady Frensham?"

"Tell people how serious it is."

"You mean, tell the Irish Nationalists to lie down and be walked over. They won't be...."

"We'll see about that," cried Lady Frensham, "we'll see about that!"

She was a large and dignified person with a kind of figure-head nobility of carriage, but Mr.
Direck was suddenly reminded of a girl cousin of his who had been expelled from college for
some particularly elaborate and aimless rioting....

"May I say something to you, Lady Frensham," said Mr. Britling, "that you have just said to
me? Do you realise that this Carsonite campaign is dragging these islands within a measurable
distance of civil war?"

"It's the fault of your Lloyd George and his government. It's the fault of your Socialists
and sentimentalists. You've made the mischief and you have to deal with it."

"Yes. But do you really figure to yourself what a civil war may mean for the empire? Surely
there are other things in the world besides this quarrel between the 'loyalists' of Ulster
and the Liberal government; there are other interests in this big empire than party advantages?
Yon think you are going to frighten this Home Rule government into some ridiculous sort of
collapse that will bring in the Tories at the next election. Well, suppose you don't manage
that. Suppose instead that you really do contrive to bring about a civil war. Very few people
here or in Ireland want it--I was over there not a month ago--but when men have loaded guns
in their hands they sometimes go off. And then people see red. Few people realise what an incurable
sore opens when fighting begins. Suppose part of the army revolts and we get some extraordinary
and demoralising fighting over there. India watches these things. Bengal may imitate Ireland.
At that distance rebellion and treason are rebellion and treason whether they are coloured
orange or green. And then suppose the Germans see fit to attack us!"

Lady Frensham had a woman's elusiveness. "Your Redmondites would welcome them with open arms."

"It isn't the Redmondites who invite them now, anyhow," said Mr. Britling, springing his mine.
"The other day one of your 'loyalists,' Andrews, was talking in the Morning Post of preferring
conquest by Germany to Home Rule; Craig has been at the same game; Major Crawford, the man
who ran the German Mausers last April, boasted that he would transfer his allegiance to the
German Emperor rather than see Redmond in power."

"Rhetoric!" said Lady Frensham. "Rhetoric!"

"But one of your Ulster papers has openly boasted that arrangements have been made for a 'powerful
Continental monarch' to help an Ulster rebellion."

"Which paper?" snatched Lady Frensham.

Mr. Britling hesitated.

Mr. Philbert supplied the name. "I saw it. It was the Irish Churchman."

"You two have got your case up very well," said Lady Frensham. "I didn't know Mr. Britling
was a party man."

"The Nationalists have been circulating copies," said Philbert. "Naturally."

"They make it look worse than mere newspaper talk and speeches," Mr. Britling pressed. "Carson,
it seems, was lunching with the German Emperor last autumn. A fine fuss you'd make if Redmond
did that. All this gun-running, too, is German gun-running."

"What does it matter if it is?" said Lady Frensham, allowing a belligerent eye to rest for
the first time on Philbert. "You drove us to it. One thing we are resolved upon at any cost.
Johnny Redmond may rule England if he likes; he shan't rule Ireland...."

Mr. Britling shrugged his shoulders, and his face betrayed despair.

