The objects of art discovered in Michelangelo's house were a blocked-out statue of S. Peter,
an unfinished Christ with another figure, and a statuette of Christ with the cross, resembling
the Cristo Risorto of S. Maria Sopra Minerva. Ten original drawings were also catalogued, one
of which (a Pietà) belonged to Tommaso dei Cavalieri; another (an Epiphany) was given to the
notary, while the rest came into the possession of Lionardo Buonarroti. The cash-box, which
had been sealed by Tommaso dei Cavalieri and Diomede Leoni, was handed over to the Ubaldini,
and from them it passed to Lionardo Buonarroti at the end of February.

II

Lionardo travelled by post to Rome, but did not arrive until three days after his uncle's death.
He began at once to take measures for the transport of Michelangelo's remains to Florence,
according to the wish of the old man, frequently expressed and solemnly repeated two days before
his death. The corpse had been deposited in the Church of the SS. Apostoli, where the funeral
was celebrated with becoming pomp by all the Florentines in Rome, and by artists of every degree.
The Romans had come to regard Buonarroti as one of themselves, and, when the report went abroad
that he had expressed a wish to be buried in Florence, they refused to believe it, and began
to project a decent monument to his memory in the Church of the SS. Apostoli. A more cheerful tone goes through
This delightful tale that is equal struck in the beginning. "They always say: it creeps me, it
makes me shudder! I shudder not. This promises to be an art of which I want none understand that.
"Behind the Laughter seems, however, to salvage a proud nationalism, can say with Bismarck:
"We are afraid of nobody," Yes, behind these joking! Fairy tale, we see the Germans as they
enter the fighting in world history, not fighting only out of necessity, but also for the pleasure
of fighting, so they foreign supporters in Byzantium and Rome And things are still colorful in
their doublets, loyal and quick-witted, in the courts the Vatican's stand.

The German legend, who herself composed - the folk tales - are very old be national property.
The characters that appear in it to be pagan as run-down Considered gods, who were hiding from
persecution in the Christian fairy tale costume. There is probably what is in the German fairy
tale, which conform to this view, for example, our loveable Sleeping Beauty. Odin, who rides through
the rays gluten to the sleeping awakening sun, Siegfried, who comes through the flickering flames
to free Brynhild, the young prince who breaks through the hedges to get Sleeping Beauty, they
are probably one and the same figure, first as a God, then as a hero, most recently as Prince Charming.
Thus, Now every German man who acquires a wife, as God, as a hero than Prince Charming feel.
But few of the German fairy tale must be so convenient as Sleeping Beauty, and even the national
origins of the German fairy tale is questionable, if the same story, as the German, distributed
under various climates and nationalities found. One can say that proves nothing against the national
origins of the German fairy tale. At the foot of the Himalayas on a daisy flowers in a Tale
of the Vienna Woods another Daisies, which both know about each other. Or, more soberly: similar
emergencies generate similar ideas and inventions, similar moods bring similar seals forth.
But the similarity is accumulated to the extent that one had to think of borrowing, and a German scientist
(Theodor Benfey) made the remarkable discovery that most Part of our Western fairy tales and
short stories in India is invented, where they are on various detours by Mongols, Jews and
Islamists have been zugemittelt. So we live also on this side of the intellectual inventions of
the Orient. And the last, that seals itself is dense, in science, an almost-lost fairy tale.
Anywhere where something significant is done, be it in poetry, in science, in technology,
everywhere lies behind a single head, which you certainly do not always see. Even the Language, in
its origin, the darkest area, is certainly inspired by individual handles People have been
brought forward, with the women in whose mouth the speech as easy and smooth is by no means be ruled
out. As the controversy over the author of the German folk epics was in vogue, Ludwig Uhland
has written in his grace so profound words: "The whole Mass (of people) is still, like a train
of migrant birds in the process of poetic beat, and the single fly alternately at the top. "

Friedrich Mitterwurzer, the artist has always inspiring us with his tales lectures this pleasant
byways brought, of which we welcome him returning once again grateful.
 All the best
artists of the time, including Gian Bologna, Cellini, Bronzino, Tribolo, Montelupo, Ammanati,
offered their willing assistance, "forasmuch as there is not one of us but hath learned in
this sacristy, or rather in this our school, whatever excellence he possesses in the arts of
design." We know already only too well that the scheme was never carried out, probably in part
because Michelangelo's rapidly declining strength prevented him from furnishing these eager
artists with the necessary working drawings. Cosimo's anxiety to gain possession of any sketches
left in Rome after Buonarroti's death may be ascribed to this project for completing the works
begun at S. Lorenzo.

Well then, upon the news of Michelangelo's death, the academicians were summoned by their lieutenant,
Don Vincenzo Borghini, to deliberate upon the best way of paying him honour, and celebrating
his obsequies with befitting pomp. It was decided that all the leading artists should contribute
something, each in his own line, to the erection of a splendid catafalque, and a sub-committee
of four men was elected to superintend its execution. These were Angelo Bronzino and Vasari,
Benvenuto Cellini and Ammanati, friends of the deceased, and men of highest mark in the two
fields of painting and sculpture. The church selected for the ceremony was S. Lorenzo; the
orator appointed was Benedetto Varchi. Borghini, in his capacity of lieutenant or official
representative, obtained the Duke's assent to the plan, which was subsequently carried out,
as we shall see in due course.

Notwithstanding what Vasari wrote to Lionardo about his uncle's coffin having been left at
the Dogana, it seems that it was removed upon the very day of its arrival, March II, to the
Oratory of the Assunta, underneath the church of S. Pietro Maggiore. On the following day the
painters, sculptors, and architects of the newly founded academy met together at this place,
intending to transfer the body secretly to S. Croce. They only brought a single pall of velvet,
embroidered with gold, and a crucifix, to place upon the bier. When night fell, the elder men
lighted torches, while the younger crowded together, vying one with another for the privilege
of carrying the coffin. Meantime the Florentines, suspecting that something unusual was going
forward at S. Pietro, gathered round, and soon the news spread through the city that Michelangelo
was being borne to S. Croce. A vast concourse of people in this way came unexpectedly together,
following the artists through the streets, and doing pathetic honour to the memory of the illustrious
dead. The spacious church of S. Croce was crowded in all its length and breadth, so that the
pall-bearers had considerable difficulty in reaching the sacristy with their precious burden.
In that place Don Vincenzo Borghini, who was lieutenant of the academy, ordered that the coffin
should be opened. "He thought he should be doing what was pleasing to many of those present;
and, as he afterwards admitted, he was personally anxious to behold in death one whom he had
never seen in life, or at any rate so long ago as to have quite forgotten the occasion. All
of us who stood by expected to find the corpse already defaced by the outrage of the sepulchre,
inasmuch as twenty-five days had elapsed since Michelangelo's death, and twenty-one since his
consignment to the coffin; but, to our great surprise, the dead man lay before us perfect in
all his parts, and without the evil odours of the grave; indeed, one might have thought that
he was resting in a sweet and very tranquil slumber. Not only did the features of his countenance
bear exactly the same aspect as in life, except for some inevitable pallor, but none of his
limbs were injured, or repulsive to the sight. The head and cheeks, to the touch, felt just
as though he had breathed his last but a few hours since." As soon as the eagerness of the
multitude calmed down a little, the bier was carried into the church again, and the coffin
was deposited in a proper place behind the altar of the Cavalcanti.

When the academicians decreed a catafalque for Michelangelo's solemn obsequies in S. Lorenzo,
they did not aim so much at worldly splendour or gorgeous trappings as at an impressive monument,
combining the several arts which he had practised in his lifetime. Being made of stucco, woodwork,
plaster, and such perishable materials, it was unfortunately destined to decay. But Florence
had always been liberal, nay, lavish, of her genius in triumphs, masques, magnificent street
architecture, evoked to celebrate some ephemeral event. A worthier occasion would not occur
again; and we have every reason to believe that the superb structure, which was finally exposed
to view upon the 14th of July, displayed all that was left at Florence of the grand style in
the arts of modelling and painting. They were decadent indeed; during the eighty-nine years
of Buonarroti's life upon earth they had expanded, flourished, and flowered with infinite variety
in rapid evolution. He lived to watch their decline; yet the sunset of that long day was still
splendid to the eyes and senses.

The four deputies appointed by the academy held frequent sittings before the plan was fixed,
and the several parts had been assigned to individual craftsmen. Ill health prevented Cellini
from attending, but he sent a letter to the lieutenant, which throws some interesting light
upon the project in its earlier stages. A minute description of the monument was published
soon after the event. Another may be read in the pages of Vasari. Varchi committed his oration
to the press, and two other panegyrical discourses were issued, under the names of Leonardo
Salviati and Giovan Maria Tarsia. Poems composed on the occasion were collected into one volume,
and distributed by the Florentine firm of Sermatelli. To load these pages with the details
of allegorical statues and pictures which have long passed out of existence, and to cite passages
from funeral speeches, seems to me useless. It is enough to have directed the inquisitive to
sources where their curiosity may be gratified.

IV

It would be impossible to take leave of Michelangelo without some general survey of his character
and qualities. With this object in view I do not think I can do better than to follow what
Condivi says at the close of his biography, omitting those passages which have been already
used in the body of this book, and supplementing his summary with illustrative anecdotes from
Vasari. Both of these men knew him intimately during the last years of his life; and if it
is desirable to learn how a man strikes his contemporaries, we obtain from them a lively and
veracious, though perhaps a slightly flattered, picture of the great master whom they studied
with love and admiration from somewhat different points of view. This will introduce a critical
examination of the analysis to which the psychology; of Michelangelo has recently been subjected.

Condivi opens his peroration with the following paragraphs:--

"Now, to conclude this gossiping discourse of mine, I say that it is my opinion that in painting
and sculpture nature bestowed all her riches with a full hand upon Michelangelo. I do not fear
reproach or contradiction when I repeat that his statues are, as it were, inimitable. Nor do
I think that I have suffered myself to exceed the bounds of truth while making this assertion.
In the first place, he is the only artist who has handled both brush and mallet with equal
excellence. Then we have no relics left of antique paintings to compare with his; and though
many classical works in statuary survive, to whom among the ancients does he yield the palm
in sculpture? At Schweitzer himself, he wrote that the
alleged preferences were not to his taste. Doubt that these Schweitzer not possess, he expressed
not, he knew why.

Beginning of 1863 Schweitzer published a new document in Otto Wigand in Leipzig, titled "The Austrian
top." The work he dedicated to his friends M. de Hofstetten, a former Bavarian officer "in
respect and friendship", the preface is a sultry extravagance, as Alcibiades speak to one of
his favorites. The content of the Writing is interesting in more ways than one. He describes this as
the character of the Prussian State quite properly explained and Prussia for the unification of
Germany entirely inappropriate. Furthermore, he comes in spite of all democratic reservations again
for the top Austrian one. The Prussian state prevails over the whole of Germany, he argues,
to Because of its historical development ... which forced him to continue in the same country
and to increase by the same Bereicherungsart, so go out on annexations. This mission Prussia,
it was not a German but a Prussian. Prussia had to go to his inner Naturally see to it that
all the individual more or less-pervasive spirit of ancient history, specifically Prussian Hohenzollern
essential character of the state not be lost.

Against Prussia, he makes this energetic front that incompatible with a real unified Germany
was. He speaks here from the following programmatic way, a view which we later in a different situation
will meet again. He says: "If the future German Rich - be it a republic or an empire - even
a single village in the present German territory is missing, this is a national scandal. The smallest
cabin in the most distant Village, where German tongue sounds, has
the sacred right to the protection of the community.

"

This solemn declaration stopped him but soon afterwards does not support the policy, the national
scandal brought about and intended to produce, and according to his own opinion would bring about.
And it was not just to a single village or a hut, but countries with ten million German territories,
which centuries earlier to the kingdom included as the province of Prussia, whose name gave
her the Hohenzollern kingdom. Finally, He urged the Austrian leaders and the entry of Austria
in the overall federal government, if otherwise, the 'destruction of Prussia. Accordingly, he
demanded that the great German Party vigorously for the top Austrian
occurring and not the small German Party the field in the agitation
for the leadership of Prussia leave.

Schweitzer as a black-yellow big top German nor 1863rd In a few months ago he was a other. Meanwhile
he had made the acquaintance of Lassalle. He understood quickly that here was an opportunity
to position for its future, his ambition corresponded to him in the middle classes by the above-described
operations on all Time was truncated.

In these circles he was considered a person close to the front of the door needed.

When in the spring of 1863 Lassalle came to Frankfurt, the two apparently agreed very soon.
Opportunity presented a joint trip to the Rhine Palatinate, on which an amusing TOOK PLACE process
with Lassalle. Except Lassalle and Schweitzer in the game took the Countess Hatzfeld, Hans von
Bulow and our late Party member, who was then young Wendelin Weissheimer part. The trip went
to Osthofen on the Rhine, from where the Ebernburg known once the seat Sickingen, a visit should
be made. had, at the urging Weissheimer his father, who lived in Osthofen, the company invited
to the dinner table. Lassalle was at the table next to Mrs. White Heimer. When those in the
course of the conversation, eager to learn how women after all, are the questions addressed
to Lassalle: if he thought that his plans feasible were embraced Lassalle and she pressed
her, saying: "They are a delicious woman" a kiss on the lips. He closed her mouth so literally.
About this mockery all social etiquette became the old Weissheimer
so in excitement that he few seconds, gasping for breath, while the
rest of the company laughed heartily.

The change in the mindset of Schweitzer's under the influence of Lassalle was immediately clear in the
speech that he on 13 October 1863 in Leipzig, held under the title: "The Party of Progress as
winner of the arrest. " This speech indicates a complete conversion of its past Position of
Prussia, at the same time she was a justification for the policy
of Lassalle and a clear Opinion against liberalism, which meant at
that time taking sides for Bismarck and the feudal lords.

  In that speech, he points out, among other things:
  
  "But, gentlemen, if you followed my presentation, so They have recognized
  that although the modern absolutism, including its Nobility and Priesterkoterien
  us hostile to, as he will ever know anything of novelty: but you will
  also have recognized that our real, persistent and bitter Enemy puts out
  quite differently - namely, in the bourgeois party and its Representatives.
  It has quite openly and even determined be that in the far the largest
  and most important question of time the true location of the arrest
  in the so-called liberal party is that our words, the social democratic
  party struggle in the first Line must be directed against them. If
  you hold it, however, Gentlemen, you will say to yourself: Why would
  Lassalle not to turn to Bismarck? "

According to this theory were not the landlord, which every political and social progress was an abomination,
which speak to modern, the fiercest defenders of the God-given dependencies are the main enemy
of the workers, but those were the liberals, of which even the most furthest right-wing supporters
but still a representative of modern development, a Followers of a certain cultural progress,
without which the capitalist system not can be made that creates the proletariat until the opportunity to
free people up elaborate, the oppression of man by man to eliminate. Schweitzer knew that
the he preached a fundamentally reactionary view, was a betrayal of the interests of the worker, but
he propagates, because he believed himself to recommend this up.

It went without saying that Bismarck and the feudal lords, such support from the extreme Linking
to pleasure could put up with and possibly the agent of such opinion also supported. but this game
was with socialism and communism - and no reasonable One could assume that it were longer
than a game - an excellent Medium, the liberal bourgeoisie, which had never participated in
an excess of courage and insight into to chase the wind up and drive them to the Bismarck Zäsarismus
into yarn. The more radical of these Socialism against the bourgeoisie airs, the more it served
its purpose. Therefore, the prompt book to Marx - you must always repeat this - the "Official Gazette"
to write itself communist.

This policy was the very opposite of democracy and socialism, which
I do not only prove need of them.

"The Social Democrat."

Schweitzer moved to Berlin in July 1864 and was naturalized there. Its purpose was to pursue
the issue of a party organ, "The Social Democrat," which his friend
v. Hofstetter, who was married to a Countess Strachwitz and had few
assets, the funds were delivered.

It is striking that Lassalle in his last penny for the instructed by him approved companies.

Schweitzer
had succeeded in spite of the mistrust that some of the above mentioned data against him entertained,
except Liebknecht Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels, Colonel Rüstow, Georg Herwegh, John Philip Becker, Fr
Reusche, Hess and Professor Moritz Wuttke win as an employee, of course on a radical program that
Schweitzer had designed, which is characterized by clarity, precision and soon excelled. The
same appeared at the top of the sample number of the "social democrat"
of 15 And December 1864 was:

Our program.

  

  
  Three major factors are what the search and the Activity of our Party
to determine:

We fight those forms of the European state system,
which, unnaturally separating and connecting the peoples, from the
feudal Middle Ages in the nineteenth century, have hauled over - we
want to promote the solidarity of the International interests and
the cause of the people throughout the world.

  
  
  We do not want a powerless and torn homeland, powerless
  to the outside and fully arbitrary in the interior - the entire,
  vast Germany, we do the one, free people's state.

  
  We reject the current domination of society by the to fight,
  we hope that the work to rule the country - capital.

  
  

  These three main aspects based on a common basis point us in every possible
  question of imperative need to the railways, to convert us.
  

  Our principles are simple and clear - to consider their consequences we
  are never afraid.

No doubt, would be this quite unassailable, from all relevant persons in the party approved program
now has remained the guiding principle of the leaf, a split would be impossible been an era of healthy
development had occurred and had an unexpected propagation the party
at a young age been highly likely.

But Schweitzer had other plans. Mr V. Hofstetten, his associate and co-owner the "social democrat",
I do not talk. Hofstetten was a weak man without a deeper insight in the nature of things that could
be abused by Schweitzer and drive, and then Schweitzer as a squeezed lemon tossed aside after
a few years after Hofstetten his fortune to the last group for the
"social democrat" and for Schweitzer, of years and day to be sitting
at his table, had sacrificed.

The correct attitude of the "Social Democrat" did not last long.

Already in point 6 of the "social democrat" were in the article "The Ministry and the Bismarck Governments
of the Middle and Small States "phrases included, in which Schweitzer's sympathy with the policies
of Bismarck, albeit very cautiously, was expressed.

With the No. 14 the "Social Democrat" of 27 January 1865 article
series that begins "The Ministry Bismarck" in which he drops the democratic
mask, which the public rejection of most of the having just acquired
employees to follow.

  
  
  In the first of these articles was carried out:
  
  "Parliamentary means Regiment of mediocrity, is powerless talk while Zäsarismus
  yet bold Initiative, but at least manageable action is. , The shame
  Renegades who are now the reaction ', call it.

Strange but however, that these radical renegade (the rapid Abwirtschaftung we have experienced.
AB) not for Pfordten Beust and (of course not. AB) that this radical renegades are now in Bismarck.
"

The Renegades, which he said were all just people who do not work
for a revolutionary Approach is felt in dealing with the capitalist
order of things - provided that they ever had their opponents - had
resigned and said that capitalism not come under the aegis of Brandenburg
Junkers too short will, in which they are not fake.

  
  
  In the second article Schweitzer said in consideration of the development
  of Prussia:
  

"From this foundation (the electorate) has then the comparatively young state, preferably by the
mighty genius a great king and mighty war heroes, one in each Relationship admirable man, a vast
and powerful empire expanded. "

According to this glorification of Frederick the Great, a resounding
no Sybel or Treitschke could operate, it also gives the popular uprising
of 1813, a tribute to a brilliant exception is the rule of Prussian
history.

  "The main, and taken all in all, Prussia is what it is to become the
  top standing in his dynasty. "
  
  He then characterized the nature of the Prussian royalism.
  
  "While such a spirit in a German States has not may be without any
  justification, or at least all higher political seriousness and
  dignity of the deeper, lacks in the other States, however, appears
  almost as a caricature of what Royalism called, is the royal spirit
  in Prussia well-grounded political views manner and direction.
  For the Dynasty can and in it each time the Regent with internal Legitimacy
  as the culmination of the ascending scale of conventional elements,
  as the emphasis in the traditional Railways rotating forces, as the
heart and brain of the organism be viewed within a state as a whole,
which is just so and under such a condition peculiar to his essence
and his momentary position gained and regained.

"

Furthermore, he said even that the Prussian State in its momentary state the obvious Character of
the unfinished, an ongoing historical development on the Wear. A
state, therefore, the cry for annexation.

This mission, the Prussians in Germany did, it was not a German, as you would have us believe,
but a Prussian.

Schweitzer was familiar with the nature of the Prussian state, as no one could know them better,
his conclusions were quite logical. But more so it does beg the question, how could He then support
a policy that un on his own admission, because only large Prussian
was, and if victorious, the defeat of democracy mean?

Such a policy could from the democratic point of view is not supported,
they would rather fight to the death be, for it was the mortal enemy
of democracy, the operation of this policy.

  
  
  Schweitzer concluded his second article also:
  
  "A truly Prussian Ministry, one which from the history of the Prussian
  state which emerged being to secure and develop the same aims, neither
  in Conformity of mere conservatism masks only the stupid Maintain
  the currently existing plan, as conservative ministries in Prussia long
  done, nor can the the state of its history-indexed foreign policy under
  Repeal of the inner character of the state seeking, as the Liberal
Party in denial of the power of gravity of the crown of time in the
House intended.

"

That is, translated into German clear: the nature of the Prussian state prohibits a Prussian
government to introduce a parliamentary regime, and if you liberals nevertheless strives so
it requires something contrary to the nature of the Prussian state is. So be content to be
an ornament to the state carriage.

In the situation in the then the chamber of the government to found a such omissions meant simply
In-the-back-drop of parliament, and support the plans of Bismarck.

  In his third article, he points out, first: the findings of his second
  article and the investigations that led to the same had been
  confused several times (!) been. It is therefore now even more clearly.
  He says:

  
  "By pursuing a policy of Prussia, for the annexation of the duchies
must (Schleswig-Holstein) lead, put it, the glorious Traditions of
Prussian history from a long slumber awakening to the innermost core
of the Prussian state of mind his lever.

  
  
  It is an important policy that is now being made in Prussia! ... If you
  start annexation must enforce them. More than that.
  
  A Prussian government, in the second half of the nineteenth Century
  begins to annex German territory, a Prussian Government, which, given
  the clear, by the Emperor, kings and Prince solemnly proclaimed the
political unsustainability The Constitution of Germany, friedericianische
policy '(like a large German newspaper put it) can not resume, stand
still for a small victory - they must continue on the beaten Rail
- forward, if necessary with blood and iron '.

  
  
  For tie in with the proudest traditions of historical adult state
and then cowardly shrink from decisive action, would stifle the innermost
lifeblood of any such state.

  
  

  You can let rest for such traditions - but they can not be , Add to ruin
  them!
  

A Prussian Minister, who made such a policy for Prussia - he irretrievably fall victim to the angry
and the manes of the great Frederick Laughter of his contemporaries. "

How had in reading these articles hit the heart of every good Prussia, but was then to be of Prussia
quasi Providence predetermined, the rulers of Germany.

And as the heart of the feudal lords had to be devoted to a man who was better than all the "historic
Mission "of the Prussian state to explain and glorify understand. And that should ignore and
unrewarded?

What Schweitzer wrote here, but was also a celebration of another Bismarck's policy, It was a formal
whip on Bismarck to go on the beaten path further had one was still required such.

In the fourth article Schweitzer came to the Bundestag and Austria to speak. This had he and
his criticism easy game for stupid and the time conflicting needs could are not traded, as these two factors
had acted in the German question. Moreover, the attitude that took over in this article Schweitzer
Austria, as in all his future policy, the direct opposite of what
he was still in 1863 - ie a half years earlier - in his pamphlet "The
Austrian leaders" to glorify Austria had said, and what the program
said that the alleged "social democrat" should be represented.

  The fifth article deals with the position of the nation and the German
  question. He comes to the result:
  

  "Capacity for action in Germany are only two factors: Prussia and the
  nation, Prussian bayonets or German proletarian fists - we not see
a third.

  
  
  ... The Prussian is the enemy of the Germans, but it is also the enemy
of the existing authorities of Germany.

The nation is certain to eternal foundation - the prince Chairs Germany must, however, falter
when Prussia remembers that Frederick the Great was to be king. "

And what was with the Prussian throne?

The reader will agree that sophisticated, demagogic was not to write.

Eel he overcomes the right of a clear opinion. He can only guess speaks, but not matter what
he wants. It is clear that the reading public to which Schweitzer turned in his plea Prussia was captured,
and that was his purpose. Add to this that the entire political Contents of the "social democrat"
saturated with the tendency was that filled the five articles. Bismarck had in the whole German
press, no feather, the clever for its policy Propaganda made.

No doubt these items were Bismarck with the program of "social democrat" in his first number
in the sharpest contradiction. It is also possible that the extremely subtle Schweitzer did not foresee
that he and the great majority of these articles just obtained only people in horrible way struck
on the head. It was a snub beyond compare. So it was natural that on Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels,
W. Liebknecht, Herwegh, John Becker, Ph.D., and Friedrich Reusche renounces of the leaf.

Schweitzer acknowledged in an article in the No. 31 with his paper
about the resignations the words, some narrow-minded heads had in
our editorials "The Ministry Bismarck encountered.

With satisfaction, he state that two main bodies of the Austrian liberalism, the "press" and
the "East German Post, had stood on his side and took longer Excerpts from them. He also cited
the "Frankfurter Neue Zeitung, the Journal of Sonnemann, had stated that the policy pursued
by Schweitzer nothing but the continuation of Lassalle's policy was.

That was right! Without Lassalle Schweitzer behavior, it would become very difficult, by bring
him popular policy in the General German Workers' Association for
approval.

But was between Lassalle and sent a difference. Lassalle, economically completely independent, how power
was to Bismarck to power, it could at Schweitzer, who was deep in debt and to be his usual
quality in all ways the question. He appeared in his presence as a tool of Bismarck's policy,
as a man taking advantage of Lassalle's Ticket for herself and sent it exploited.

Furthermore, said Schweitzer against Marx and Engels, that they are the "social democrat" withdrawn
as soon as they realized that they could not play the first role in the party. Unlike them,
Lassalle was not the man of the barren abstraction, but a Politicians
in the strict sense of the word, not a literary doctrinaire, but a
Man of practical action was.

  Where again we must not forget that the man later Schweitzer the "barren
  Abstraction ", the" literary doctrinaire "Karl Marx flattered, and to
  sought to win.
  
  Marx and Engels were the answer not guilty. Under 24 February 1865 published
  she stated:
  
  "The signatories pledged their cooperation in the, Social Democrat
  ' and allowed their employees as provided under the express Provided
  that the paper in the spirit of them reported short Program will
  be edited. You misunderstood for a moment the difficult
  position of the 'Social Democrat' and did so for no the
  Meridian Berlin inappropriate claims. They called but repeated that
  the Ministry and the feudal party to be conducted over at least
  as bold as language compared with the Progressives. The of
  the, social democrat 'followed Our tactics include more participation
  from the same. The View of the undersigned by the Royal Prussian
  Socialism and Government of the correct position of the Labor
  party to such deception is already found in detail developed in the
No. 73, Brussels Deutsche Zeitung of 12 September 1847, in response
to the then No. 206 in Cologne appearing, Rheinische observer 'in
which the alliance of the Proletariat and the government against the
liberal bourgeoisie was proposed.

Any words of our former statement we sign today. "

  The statement in The German Brussels newspaper, which this Marx and
  Engels referred to, was:
  
  "If a certain fraction German Socialists continually against the liberal
  bourgeoisie has rumbled, in a way that no one took advantage as the
  German government, if now Government papers such as the Rheinische observers',
  the phrases Having these people claim, not the liberal bourgeoisie, but
  the government representing the interests of the proletariat, then
the Communists have neither the first nor the last something in common
....

The people or to take the place of this far-sighted, vacillating
Expression to set the specific, reasons the proletariat throughout
different from what people in the spiritual ministry can dream of.

   The painter Giuliano Bugiardini ought to be added to the same list.
Messer Ottaviano de' Medici begged him to make a portrait of Michelangelo, who gave him a sitting
without hesitation, being extremely partial to the man's company. At the end of two hours Giuliano
exclaimed: "Michelangelo, if you want to see yourself, stand up; I have caught the likeness."
Michelangelo did as he was bidden, and when he had examined the portrait, he laughed and said:
"What the devil have you been about? You have painted me with one of my eyes up in the temple."
Giuliano stood some time comparing the drawing with his model's face, and then remarked: "I
do not think so; but take your seat again, and I shall be able to judge better when I have
you in the proper pose." Michelangelo, who knew well where the fault lay, and how little judgment
belonged to his friend Bugiardini, resumed his seat, grinning. After some time of careful contemplation,
Giuliano rose to his feet and cried: "It seems to me that I have drawn it right, and that the
life compels me to do so." "So then," replied Buonarroti, "the defect is nature's, and see
you spare neither the brush nor art."

Both Sebastiano del Piombo and Giorgio Vasari were appreciated by Michelangelo for their lively
parts and genial humour. The latter has told an anecdote which illustrates the old man's eccentricity.
He was wont to wear a cardboard hat at night, into which he stuck a candle, and then worked
by its light upon his statue of the Pietà. Vasari observing this habit, wished to do him a
kindness by sending him 40 lbs. of candles made of goat's fat, knowing that they gutter less
than ordinary dips of tallow. His servant carried them politely to the house two hours after
nightfall, and presented them to Michelangelo. He refused, and said he did not want them. The
man answered, "Sir, they have almost broken my arms carrying them all this long way from the
bridge, nor will I take them home again. There is a heap of mud opposite your door, thick and
firm enough to hold them upright. Here then will I set them all up, and light them." When Michelangelo
heard this, he gave way: "Lay them down; I do not mean you to play pranks at my house-door."
Varsari tells another anecdote about the Pietà. Pope Julius III. sent him late one evening
to Michelangelo's house for some drawing. The old man came down with a lantern, and hearing
what was wanted, told Urbino to look for the cartoon. Meanwhile, Vasari turned his attention
to one of the legs of Christ, which Michelangelo had been trying to alter. In order to prevent
his seeing, Michelangelo let the lamp fall, and they remained in darkness. He then called for
a light, and stepped forth from the enclosure of planks behind which he worked. As he did so,
he remarked, "I am so old that Death oftentimes plucks me by the cape to go with him, and one
day this body of mine will fall like the lantern, and the light of life will be put out." Of
death he used to say, that "if life gives us pleasure, we ought not to expect displeasure from
death, seeing as it is made by the hand of the same master."

Among stories relating to craftsmen, these are perhaps worth gleaning. While he was working
on the termini for the tomb of Julius, he gave directions to a certain stone-cutter: "Remove
such and such parts here to-day, smooth out in this place, and polish up in that." In the course
of time, without being aware of it, the man found that he had produced a statue, and stared
astonished at his own performance. Michelangelo asked, "What do you think of it?" "I think
it very good," he answered, "and I owe you a deep debt of gratitude." "Why do you say that?"
"Because you have caused me to discover in myself a talent which I did not know that I possessed."--A
certain citizen, who wanted a mortar, went to a sculptor and asked him to make one. The fellow,
suspecting some practical joke, pointed out Buonarroti's house, and said that if he wanted
mortars, a man lived there whose trade it was to make them. The customer accordingly addressed
himself to Michelangelo, who, in his turn suspecting a trick, asked who had sent him. When
he knew the sculptor's name, he promised to carve the mortar, on the condition that it should
be paid for at the sculptor's valuation. This was settled, and the mortar turned out a miracle
of arabesques and masks and grotesque inventions, wonderfully wrought and polished. In due
course of time the mortar was taken to the envious and suspicious sculptor, who stood dumbfounded
before it, and told the customer that there was nothing left but to carry this masterpiece
of carving back to him who fashioned it, and order a plain article for himself.--At Modena
he inspected the terra-cotta groups by Antonio Begarelli, enthusiastically crying out, "If
this clay could become marble, woe to antique statuary."--A Florentine citizen once saw him
gazing at Donatello's statue of S. Mark upon the outer wall of Orsanmichele. On being asked
what he thought of it, Michelangelo replied, "I never saw a figure which so thoroughly represents
a man of probity; if S. Mark was really like that, we have every reason to believe everything
which he has said." To the S. George in the same place he is reported to have given the word
of command, "March!"--Some one showed him a set of medals by Alessandro Cesari, upon which
he exclaimed, "The death hour of art has struck; nothing more perfect can be seen than these."--Before
Titian's portrait of Duke Alfonso di Ferrara he observed that he had not thought art could
perform so much, adding that Titian alone deserved the name of painter.--He was wont to call
Cronaca's church of S. Francesco al Monte "his lovely peasant girl," and Ghiberti's doors in
the Florentine Baptistery "the Gates of Paradise."--Somebody showed him a boy's drawings, and
excused their imperfection by pleading that he had only just begun to study: "That is obvious,"
he answered. A similar reply is said to have been made to Vasari, when he excused his own frescoes
in the Cancelleria at Rome by saying they had been painted in a few days.--An artist showed
him a Pietà which he had finished: "Yes, it is indeed a pietà (pitiful object) to see."--Ugo
da Carpi signed one of his pictures with a legend declaring he had not used a brush on it:
"It would have been better had he done so."--Sebastiano del Piombo was ordered to paint a friar
in a chapel at S. Pietro a Montorio. Michelangelo observed, "He will spoil the chapel." He could dive down into this blissful nothingness
that is supposed to be everything.

But the genius of humanity is smiling upon such extravagances of thought and Will. Playing it
will resolve the spasm, and the gracious smile of a girl has already some philosophers, who held
the woman for the embodiment of evil, to a milder view converted. Hanns scourge rider, rural
philosopher of pessimism, was also on this other way out and an unfortunate one lucky man His
sister in law Leonard found the means to indicate to him that she loved him, and Hanns it came
half-way contrary. For her next birthday he gave her a mirror. He was again Pleasure in his
face, since it pleased a dear girl, and this level trough not. As the Christmas season approached,
good spirits darted through the house. On Christmas Eve came the scourge Lieblingstöchterchen rider
up with red cheeks from the garden and told her father, giving him enough to shoot a cherry tree,
"Look, Father, I have a dead branch broken from the tree, and as I was bent, he was green on
the inside ... "" Oh, my child, "exclaimed the happy father," I thank you for your good news.
"Then He took the child and hugged and kissed it, but the blonde sister, the frightened Child,
he embraced with overflowing tenderness. Evening, however, led the converted Leonie Hanns in
the mess of splendor filled rooms. She held her hands to upon entering Eyes and let him free only
when they stood before a large Venetian mirror. The The Christmas tree lights were burning
them against it, but was surprised more beautiful he, when he saw the beloved girls, cheek
to cheek with him, look out from the glass. The two children climbed up on them and finished
with their love faces the lovely Reflection.
 He received, for instance, thirty ducats for the Sleeping
Cupid, and 450 ducats for the Pietà of S. Peter's. He contracted with Cardinal Piccolomini
to furnish fifteen statues for 500 ducats. In all of these cases the costs of marble, workmen,
workshop, fell on him. He contracted with Florence to execute the David in two years, at a
salary of six golden florins per month, together with a further sum when the work was finished.
It appears that 400 florins in all (including salary) were finally adjudged to him. In these
cases all incidental expenses had been paid by his employers. He contracted with the Operai
del Duomo to make twelve statues in as many years, receiving two florins a month, and as much
as the Operai thought fit to pay him when the whole was done. Here too he was relieved from
incidental expenses. For the statue of Christ at S. Maria sopra Minerva he was paid 200 crowns.

These are a few of the most trustworthy items we possess, and they are rendered very worthless
by the impossibility of reducing ducats, florins, and crowns to current values. With regard
to the bronze statue of Julius II. at Bologna, Michelangelo tells us that he received in advance
1000 ducats, and when he ended his work there remained only 4-1/2 ducats to the good. In this
case, as in most of his great operations, he entered at the commencement into a contract with
his patron, sending in an estimate of what he thought it would be worth his while to do the
work for. The Italian is "pigliare a cottimo;" and in all of his dealings with successive Popes
Michelangelo evidently preferred this method. It must have sometimes enabled the artist to
make large profits; but the nature of the contract prevents his biographer from forming even
a vague estimate of their amount. According to Condivi, he received 3000 ducats for the Sistine
vault, working at his own costs. According to his own statement, several hundred ducats were
owing at the end of the affair. 

It is the tragedy in the life of the Jews that he agreed two feelings in his mind: the feeling
of the primacy and the feeling of stigmatization. In the constant collision, the friction of these
two streams sensation he must live and find their way. It has been with me almost all Jews, whom
I met, confirmed, and it is the deepest, most difficult and important Part of the Jewish problem.

It
has, however, simply and humanly, nor a priority in that one is a
Jew, how is stigmatized by the fact that one is a Jew.

I realized that a nation can not be chosen continuous and not continuous as chosen may designate,
without overthrowing the just order in the eyes of other nations. The chosen individual is always
able to take responsibility for his actions and omissions to assume, in the chosen people, however,
presumes the individual to gradually a role that does not belong to him, he has not grown, and
when he is persuaded to the benefits the overall position for himself to maintain that the
responsibility on the other hand, the whole to pass. Even in the event set, a population is due
to a single magnificent contribution entitled to designate to constantly chosen people, how would
such a claim to defend against the criticism against the changing demands of new human and
? Secure How is it possible, the complex "people to define"? Enough to the naked confession
for a belief to be chosen? That would be absolutely absurd and immoral.

Has the idea of ​​election, for a people justified only within a time Limit. But as soon as
they pulled out of the historical contingency and to some extent the Infinity is brought,
creates the offense, while the personal chosenness at infinity, is at infinity exists.

10

The conversations with the friend, an incessant battle of opinions
in the forms of mutual loving interest, had far-reaching significance
for me and put my thoughts- and feeling the world on a much broader
basis.

It seemed sometimes as if I was with the whole human peace castles, when I closed my peace with him,
but it was difficult to set the terms of such peace, yes to rewrite it only unequivocal.

The decision, in which introduced me to the friend, less in words than by his attitude, was:
you're a Jew or are you German

?
 Nor,
so far as I am aware, has the return of his property, which Lionardo Buonarroti may possibly
have furnished to the state of Florence, been yet brought to light.

That he inherited some landed property at Settignano from his father is certain; and he added
several plots of ground to the paternal acres. He also is said to have bought a farm in Valdichiana
(doubtful), and other pieces of land in Tuscany. He owned a house at Rome, a house and workshop
in the Via Mozza at Florence, and he purchased the Casa Buonarroti in Via Ghibellina. She could probably measure Hessian
with the famous story teller of the brothers Grimm. On winter evenings, when spinning sat by the
stove, pulled the flax from the distaff and spindle was rotated dance - because at that time
spinning you look at the screen even themselves, sent the yarn to the weaver, the weaving on the
bleaching - Then the girl began to tell and did so until they do not, but we children exhausted were.
Then we heard the stem probably still half asleep in the buzzing in and were happy forward
to the next evening. The red Hanne did not speak quite as Mitterwurzer read. Her story had more
epic river worked its dialogue and dramatic moments not so strongly.
 These may be briefly catalogued under the following heads: A passionate violence
of temper (terribilità), expressing itself in hasty acts and words; extreme suspiciousness
and irritability; solitary habits, amounting to misanthropy or churlishness; eccentricity and
melancholy bordering on madness; personal timidity and avarice; a want of generosity in imparting
knowledge, and an undue partiality for handsome persons of his own sex. His biographers, Condivi
and Vasari, thought these charges worthy of serious refutation, which proves that they were
current. He
looked with some pleasure the blood drip out of the hand, for he felt his chest how relieved
by bloodletting. A muffled stuffiness was spread over the room, silent wept, the children, a
not quite mastered sobs revealed the internal movement the poor sister in law, and in between
came the ticking of the stoic and Schwarzwälderuhr notifying her the full hour cuckoo. The
memory of the time and daily routine led the agitated by a violent incident spirits in the everyday
rut gradually returned. Scourge rider while still remaining silent, but when the caring sister
the broken glass from his hand away and had created an association, he felt pushed it to a few
apologetic words. You may excuse his violence; But you know that he himself could not endure
that he try to escape the and that it might make him impossible with this attitude a joy to
his image in front of to see. He hated his own moves, they were profoundly repugnant to him,
if he once even accidentally catch sight of him the day and the week is ruined. The mirror is therefore
his greatest enemy ... After these words he is not without self-discipline and a certain shame
had uttered more than talk, he retired to his study and was, despite the urgent pleas of his children,
who knocked on his door repeatedly, On this day never been seen.

Like all the exaggerated emotions and states of men, was also the self-hatred and based on the
self-torture of our wonderful philosophers a very human motive.

When he was courting, he visited the house of a widow who had two daughters, which he actually
the younger, his present-law, loved. The older but took advantage of love the mood of the young
man knew him by a hundred favors and considerations to flatter, and the younger daughter, who
had only a small degree the gift of their feelings to borrow the right word, he let lie aside,
although he as a pain felt closer to her can not. Since the mother completely, like nearly all mothers,
tear yourself away from the pedantry could not marry their daughters to the age group, came
about a marriage that complied with the intentions of the young husband, not really. Once he
remembered, he had to admit honestly that if he brought home the older, but his heart really belonged
to the younger. But once claimed the existing state his imperious rights. It was found in the basically
good disposition of the young woman deal fairly, and ceased altogether when the children's blessing
and the loving mother one after two well-crafted girl in the arms of the happy husband seemed
to put a be satisfied secured future.
 The following passage sums up Parlagreco's theory
in a succession of pregnant sentences. "An accurate study, based upon his correspondence in
connection with the events of the artist's life and the history of his works, has enabled me
to detect in his character a persistent oscillation. Continual contradictions between great
and generous ideas upon the one side, and puerile ideas upon the other; between the will and
the word, thought and action; an excessive irritability and the highest degree of susceptibility;
constant love for others, great activity in doing good, sudden sympathies, great outbursts
of enthusiasm, great fears; at times an unconsciousness with respect to his own actions; a
marvellous modesty in the field of art, an unreasonable vanity regarding external appearances:--these
are the diverse manifestations of psychical energy in Buonarroti's life; all which makes me
believe that the mighty artist was affected by a degree of neuropathy bordering closely upon
hysterical disease." He proceeds to support this general view by several considerations, among
which the most remarkable are Michelangelo's asseverations to friends: "You will say that I
am old and mad to make sonnets, but if people assert that I am on the verge of dotage, I have
wished to act up to my character:" "You will say that I am old and mad; but I answer that there
is no better way of keeping sane and free from anxiety, than by being mad:" "As regards the
madness they ascribe to me, it does harm to nobody but myself:" "I enjoyed last evening, because
it drew me out of my melancholy and mad humour."

Reviewing Parlagreco's argument in general, I think it may be justly remarked that if the qualities
rehearsed above constitute hysterical neuropathy, then every testy, sensitive, impulsive, and
benevolent person is neuropathically hysterical. In particular we may demur to the terms "puerile
ideas," "unreasonable vanity regarding external appearances." It would be difficult to discover
puerility in any of Buonarroti's utterances; and his only vanity was a certain pride in the
supposed descent of his house from that of Canossa. 

But since this demand is not only not satisfied, but with increasing years of tear always gaping
was between my frantic call, and it was granted, I would have lose, and finally give up me to
yourself, if not two phenomena in saving my Life would be entered: the landscape and the word.

4

Suffocating
in its narrowness and barrenness without the garden city, city of
the carbon black of a thousand chimneys, mechanical and Hämmergestampfes,
beer economies, the grim business and acquisition greed, of small
and petty people closer together, the air of poverty and lack of love
in father's house.

Within arid sandy plain, dirty water factory, the hazy, lazy river, the linear Channel, sparse forests,
villages sad, ugly stone quarries, dust, mud, broom.

An hour's walk to the East: Nuremberg, monuments great story. With ancient houses, farms, Streets,
cathedrals, bridges, wells and walls, for me, however, never shift
or pomp, or empty, romantic scene, but by multiple relationship in
the personal fate interwoven in her childhood and later still overweight.

A

few hours after the train journey south: the hilly Swiss francs, Valley of the Altmühl where
I Gunzenhausen Ansbach spend all holidays with my mother's sister, was allowed all summer weeks
of the year, often fall and winter. The landscape of delicate lines, with Forests, the cherished
mental image shame not like those others, flower gardens, orchards,
Ponds, abandoned castles, ruins gimped, village fairs, simple people.

It , there was free interaction with animals and plants, water, grass and trees were essentially
me familiar, and so the farmer, the merchant, the landlord, the tramp of the hunters, foresters,
the magistrate, the watchman, the soldier. Here I saw it in pure and fair to their world,
which also was mine, at least I never uttered.
 At worst, Michelangelo's melancholy might be ascribed to that morbus
eruditorum of which Burton speaks. It never assumed the form of hypochondria, hallucination,
misogyny, or misanthropy. He was irritable, suspicious, and frequently unjust both to his friends
and relatives on slight occasions. But his relatives gave him good reason to be fretful by
their greediness, ingratitude, and stupidity; and when he lost his temper he recovered it with
singular ease. It is also noticeable that these paroxysms of crossness on which so much stress
has been laid, came upon him mostly when he was old, worn out with perpetual mental and physical
fatigue, and troubled by a painful disease of the bladder. There is nothing in their nature,
frequency, or violence to justify the hypothesis of more than a hyper-sensitive nervous temperament;
and without a temperament of this sort how could an artist of Michelangelo's calibre and intensity
perform his life-work? In old age he dwelt upon the thought of death, meditated in a repentant
spirit on the errors of his younger years, indulged a pious spirit, and clung to the cross
of Christ. But when a man has passed the period allotted for the average of his race, ought
not these preoccupations to be reckoned to him rather as appropriate and meritorious? We must
not forget that he was born and lived as a believing Christian, in an age of immorality indeed,
but one which had not yet been penetrated with scientific conceptions and materialism. There
is nothing hysterical or unduly ascetic in the religion of his closing years. Sharp mind, sharp eye, skeptical mind, teaches literature, also a Jew, he was like
the spitting image of that from the older generation, only that he is more World and had more
bonhomie. The same type today has nothing at all from the world and Bonhomie. It can bedünken
with superficial opinions, as if the type of positivity of the Spirit won what he has lost touch
and good nature. But this is only an illusion. Subtracting off the shell, so there is a denier,
now as before, a godless, an opportunist from abandoned gnawing despair, whose nature it is of course
itself unknown. Strange, with the same recklessness as to the young man I joined the elderly
to be disappointed in exactly the same way to. The specifically Jewish form of sophistication
I do in my life often been disastrous, because I use completely different senses set was unable
to make the practical utility and Nahzwecke also perceive only but often it was with the external
responsibility, loaded with the internal always.

The evidence of my talents that I gave the doctor were rejected by him and laughed, could then
also be in the company the target of his witty jabs. But he was bring to meetings with me and
advised me to study. The only question was whether the Uncle grant funds would help, and he
promised to persuade him to do so. However, turned I am, charmed by the new prospect to my friend
in Munich, he described how things were said, anticipating that I may have on the support of
my family could count, and asked if he take me if he help me, I prepare for exams would. The response
was unexpectedly warm and encouraging, the picture of a common action and effort that he, who was
usually as cool deliberative, I made it so seductive that I suddenly lost the patience to negotiate
with the uncle and his advisors and a further Afternoon in May 1890 secretly packed my suitcase
to the station and went with fifty or sixty guilders saved fled to Munich.

I remember very well the night ride in the passenger train, because
while I their full term and was in a mood to it under negotiated that
recurred often in my life.

I sat in a dim lit third-class carriages, together with about thirty people, peasants, petty
bourgeoisie, workers, women and girls, and from the beginning of the journey, all night, I thought
the people with hilarious jokes, funny Stories and acceptable Hanswurstiaden in perpetual
sound of laughter, in the the conductor arrived. All the laughing, tears in his eyes were curious,
grateful, delighted directed at me, and I remember a skinny old farmer, who literally laughing
crying and a woman with a basket that I slipped from time to time, apples, and my hand patted.
I had pleasure to observe, such as sadness, bitterness, soreness I grew up in the same degree in
which I enraptured my innocent audience applause increased.
 The second point forced in upon our mind is that the same man vibrated acutely to the
political agitation of his troubled age, to mental influences of various kinds, and finally
to a persistent nervous susceptibility, which made him exquisitely sensitive to human charm.
This quality rendered him irritable in his dealings with his fellow-men, like an instrument
of music, finely strung, and jangled on a slight occasion. But after they had paved the way for the community with us, changed probably face
their spiritual and their spirituality with astonishing rapidity, and with astonishing Momentum and clamping
force they made our needs to her, her to ours, clings to the demands of the welfare state, public
opinion, fashion, devoted, their wonderful talents in art, science, social development, but in her
Reason they were Jews.
 For the same reason, partly by predilection, and partly by a deliberate
wish to curb his irritable tendencies, he lived as much alone as possible, and poorly. At the
close of his career, when he condescended to unburden his mind in verse and friendly dialogue,
it is clear that he had formed the habit of recurring to religion for tranquillity, and of
combating dominant desire by dwelling on the thought of inevitable death. In the house, which came back to a vast orchard, Hanns lived scourge
Reiter, a well-off young scholar who, from a low propensity to Knowledge of things inspired by
science to their own satisfaction used. The unsuccessful and successful candidates
make closed phalanx against those who have the least advantage, and it requires an overwhelming
personality to the doubts of the prejudiced, who behave objectively knock down.
 But as he of the beloved sister-in towards the innermost bound was
in vain for words and struggled to express her feelings are, and it also itself, a closed, bashful
nature, his nature, and omission only with the eyes pursued and expressed their love in the
only other working people, are attracted to the young scholar himself and his books back, with
those trained in him an aversion to himself, had made in the smashing of the mirror so violent air.
 

  (On December 25, 1895)

Mirror Images

It was on a bright summer morning,
as a crowd pulling over fellow citizens who just the terms were to
go to the village in order to cultivate their vineyards, at one of
the Street lying land home heard an unusual noise, in which she uttered
the sharp Call of a male voice distinction, where a clinking sound,
like from flying apart Glass shards caused, succeeded.

 That makes him the unparalleled personality
he is, as now revealed to us by the impartial study of the documents at our disposal.

IX