"A word with you, Beliani," said Alec, going to the table and unlocking the drawer from which
he had taken the money given to Sobieski. "You are now in charge of the State's finances, I
presume. I have here a sum, roughly speaking, of one thousand pounds. To some extent, it is
my own money; but the greater part consists of instalments of the salary of five thousand dollars
a year I allowed myself as King. Do you think I have earned it?"

The Greek could only mutter a surprised, "Yes. Who would deny your right to a far larger amount?"

"Having your sanction, then, I take it," said Alec coolly. "Here too is my passport, issued
in Paris, for which I believe I am indebted to you. It will now come in handy. May I ask in
whose charge I leave the books and papers on this table? Some of them may be of use to the State."

"I am afraid I cannot answer that question," muttered the Greek, with a stealthy glance in
the direction of the rival candidates.

"Well, settle it among yourselves," said Alec dryly. "Now I must be off."

Without another word he passed from the room that had witnessed his triumph and his fall. Yet
his face was remarkably cheerful when he asked an attendant if Lord Adalbert Beaumanoir's whereabouts
was known. The quiet elation in his manner led the man to believe that some specially pleasing
news had transpired during the conclave in the royal bureau.

It appeared that his Excellency, the English milord, had gone to the music hall in the Königstrasse
with a friend.

"Then send some one to say that he is wanted here at once," said Alec.

"Yes, your Majesty."

"Your Majesty!" How incongruous the two words sounded now in Alec's ears! By a trick of memory
his thoughts flew back to the Montmartre review wherein the stage prototypes of the Parisian
band of exiled monarchs addressed each other by high sounding titles and incidentally sought
to borrow five-franc pieces.

"If I possessed some literary skill, I could write a review that would set the world talking,"
he mused, smiling to himself as he ascended the stairs to his own suite.

"What is the matter, old chap?" demanded Beaumanoir, strolling into his friend's dressing room
a few minutes later. Lord Adalbert never hurried unless he was on horseback. He was in evening
dress, and an opera hat was set rakishly on the back of his head. He was smoking, his hands
were thrust into his pockets, and the mere sight of him served again to remind Alec of the
larger world in whose daily round Kosnovia and its troubles filled so insignificant a part.

In an oddly jubilant mood, Alec took a pencil and wrote in large characters on Beaumanoir's
immaculate shirt front, "Paris--with care."

His chum read. "The answer is?" he asked.

"We are leaving Delgratz to-night, Berty. That is all."

"You don't say!" He glanced down at the label. "Is this the address?"

"Yes."

Beaumanoir screwed his cigar firmly into the corner of his mouth. "I am pretty rapid myself,
Alec," he grinned; "but you are too sudden altogether. Tell me just what you mean, there's
a dear fellow."

"I take it you don't want to remain here without me, Berty," said Alec cheerily, "and I am
off. I chucked up my job half an hour ago. Joan and Felix started by the mail train that left
here at half-past five. We follow at midnight. My mother goes with us. As Bosko is giving her
maid a hand in the packing, I must look after my own traps. Nesimir's servants would talk,
which is just what I want to avoid. The two days in the train will give you plenty of time
to learn the harrowing details. I have a pretty story for you; but it must wait. I am not cracked,
nor sprung, nor trying to be funny; so you need not look at me in that way. I am out of business
as a King, for good and all, and the sooner I cross the frontier, the better it will be for
my health."

"Honor bright, Alec?"

"Every syllable. Now, get a hustle on!"

There was a tap at the door, and a servant entered with a note for the King. It was from Constantine
Beliani, and written in French.

     Prince Michael and Count Julius Marulitch have decided that, in the
     interests of the State, you ought to make a formal abdication of
     the throne, appointing the former as your successor, with special
     remainder to Count Julius.

     I agree with them that this offers the best way out of an
     unfortunate situation, and I would respectfully point out the
     urgency that is attached to the proposal if you still contemplate
     leaving Delgratz to-night.

Alec bent his brows over this curt missive, which was not couched precisely in the suave words
that might be expected from the Greek. Read between the lines, its meaning was significant.
Michael and his nephew, hungering for the spoils, had patched up a truce. They were already
contemplating another military pronunciamento, and Beliani, having made his own terms, was
lending his influence.

If their demands were refused, Alec might find himself a prisoner, and the country would be
plunged into a revolution. Under different conditions, he would gladly have measured his wits
and his popularity against the triumvirate. A call to arms would win him the support of the
great majority of the troops and of nearly all the younger officers. But a fight for a throne
to which he had no claim was not to be thought of; yet he was adamant in his resolve not to
advance the schemes of these rogues by any written statement.

He handed the note to Beaumanoir with a quiet laugh. "There you have the story in a nutshell,"
he said. "A few minutes ago I became aware that I am not Prince Michael's son. Although I strove
to act fairly, my worthy stepfather is not content. He thinks to force my hand, because he
fears the republican idea; but I may best him yet.

"Where is Monsieur Nesimir?" he said to the servant, to whom the English conversation was a
sealed book.

"In his apartments, I believe, your Majesty."

"Have instructions been given for mounted orderlies to be in readiness?"

"I heard his Excellency Prince Michael say something of the sort to the officer of the guard,
your Majesty."

The random shot had told. Alec felt that he was spinning a coin with fortune.

"That is right," he said coolly. "Give my compliments to Monsieur Beliani, and ask him to oblige
me by coming here for a moment; Prince Michael and Count Marulitch, too. Tell all three that
I am ready to attend at once to the matter mentioned in Monsieur Beliani's note."

The servant disappeared. Beaumanoir, who, of course, did not understand the instructions given
to the man, was fumigating Beliani's letter with rapid puffs of smoke, and incidentally scratching
the back of his right ear.

"Rum go this, Alec!" he began.

"Not a word now. You'll stand by me, Berty, I know. Go to my mother's suite and tell Bosko
I want him instantly. Bid him bring a brace of revolvers, and see that they are loaded. Come
here yourself with some ropes, leather straps, anything that will serve to truss a man securely,
as soon as you are sure that Michael, Julius, and the Greek are safely in the room."

Beaumanoir scented a row. Lest any words of his might stop it, he vanished. He must have hurried,
too, since Bosko had joined his master before Beliani's messenger reached the anxious conspirators
with Alec's answer. There was no need to ask if the Albanian had brought the weapons. They
were tucked ostentatiously in his belt. Alec looked him squarely in the eyes.

"I think I can depend on you, Bosko," said he.

"Oui, monsieur."

"Understand, then, that I am no longer King of Kosnovia. I am not Prince Michael's son. I mean
to leave Delgratz to-night, and there is a plot on foot to prevent my departure except on terms
to which I shall not agree. Will you help me to defeat it?"

"Oui, monsieur."

"Within the next minute I shall probably have visitors. They may show fight, though I doubt
it, I want you to place those two pistols among the clothes in that portmanteau, and be busy,
apparently, in arranging its contents. When I close the door, you must spring up and cover
them with both revolvers. Do not shoot without my command; but make it clear by your manner
that their lives are at your mercy. Will you do this?"

"Oui, monsieur," said Bosko.

"Here they are, then. Be ready!"

The door was ajar, and footsteps sounded on the stairs. Some one knocked.

"Come in," said Alec cordially.

Beliani was the first to enter. He pushed the door wide open to assure himself that he was
not walking into a trap. He saw Bosko on his knees, rummaging in a trunk, and Alec standing
in the middle of the room, lighting a cigarette.

"Come in," said Alec again. "My departure is rather hurried, as you know, and I have not a
minute to spare. Have you brought the necessary documents?"

"It is a simple matter," said the Greek, advancing confidently. "Half a sheet of notepaper
with your signature and our indorsement as witnesses will suffice."

Prince Michael and Julius, reassured by Alec's manner, and thanking the propitious stars that
had rendered unnecessary the dangerous step they were contemplating, entered the room with
as businesslike an air as they could assume at a crisis so fraught with import to their own future.

"We ought to be alone," said Beliani in English, with a wary glance at Bosko.

"Oh, for goodness' sake don't disturb my man! I have so little time and so much to do! Tell
me exactly what you want me to sign," and he strode to the door and closed it behind Marulitch.

The eyes of the three were on him and not on the harmless looking attendant. During those few
seconds they were completely deceived.

Prince Michael, finding the path so easy, took the lead. "Just a formal renunciation of the
crown," he said. "Give as your reason, if you choose, your inability to fall in with the expressed
desire of the Cabinet that you should marry a Serbian lady. It is essential that you should
name me----"

The door opened and Lord Adalbert Beaumanoir came in leisurely. He carried an assortment of
straps, rifled from leather trunks and hatboxes. He saw the three men facing Alec, and behind
them Bosko's leveled revolvers.

"Not a bally rope to be had, dear boy; but here's leather enough to go round," he grinned.
"By gad! what a tableau! I suppose you mean to gag 'em and then tie 'em back to back, eh, what?"

Alec picked up a chair. "Yes," he said. "Begin with his Excellency Prince Michael."

Julius Marulitch's right hand sought the pocket of the dinner jacket he was wearing.

"No, Julius," said Alec pleasantly, "move an inch and you are a dead man. Bosko has my orders,
and he will obey them. You may look at him if you doubt my word."

Marulitch's well poised head had never before turned so quickly; but he shrank from a wicked
looking muzzle pointed straight between his eyes. In such circumstances, the caliber of a revolver
seems to become magnified to absurdly large proportions, and behind the fearsome weapon Bosko's
immovable face was that of an automaton.

Beliani's olive complexion assumed a sickly green tint for the second time that evening. "I
was right," he muttered; "but you would not listen."

"It is a common delusion of the thief that an honest man has no brains," said Alec coolly.
"Now, Beaumanoir, get busy. Time is flying, and we have little more than an hour to spare."

Prince Michael, never noted for his courage, began to whimper some words of expostulation;
but Beaumanoir's strong hands soon silenced him with an improvised gag, for the effeminate
little rascal realized that his jaw might be broken if he resisted the stuffing of a towel
into his mouth. In a few minutes the three were seated on the floor, securely bound, and unable
to utter more than a gurgling cry, which would certainly not be heard by any one passing along
the outer corridor.

Alec's cheerful explanation of his action must have been particularly galling. "You will remain
here until such time as Stampoff decides that you may safely be set at liberty," he said. "Not
you, but he, must provide for the future good government in Kosnovia."

"Thanks, Beaumanoir," he added, turning from the discomfited trio with a carelessness that
showed they gave him no further concern. "Better be off now and get ready. Bosko, mount guard
outside the door! Allow no one to enter on any pretext whatsoever!"

Then he busied himself about the room, followed by vengeful eyes. He had brought little into
Kosnovia, and he took little away. The extraordinary simplicity of his life had rendered unnecessary
the usual trappings of a King. He had worn no uniform save the plainest of field service garments.
He possessed no State attire. His clothes were mostly those which came from Paris, and it amused
him now to change rapidly into the very suit in which he had entered Delgratz, an unknown claimant
of the Kosnovian throne. Bundling his trunks out into the corridor, he closed and locked the
door, and the click of the moving bolt must have sent a tremor through the stiff limbs of the
three worthies who lay huddled together inside.

Bidding Bosko hurry over his own preparations, he descended to the courtyard. A number of troopers,
standing by their horses' heads, sprang to attention when he appeared.

"You can dismiss your men," he said to the officer in charge. "They will not be needed to-night."

Then he told an attendant to order a couple of carriages for half-past eleven. In the reception
room he wrote a hasty note to Stampoff:

     MY DEAR PAUL:--The legitimate King of Kosnovia and his heir
     apparent, not contented with the arrangement entered into in your
     presence, planned with Beliani a coup d'état. I defeated it. You
     will find all three in my bedroom, the key of which I inclose. They
     are alive and well, and will stop there until it pleases you to
     release them. Perhaps you would like to consult with Sergius
     Nesimir, who by the time you receive this may have recovered the
     composure so rudely disturbed to-night. At any rate, the next move
     rests with you. Farewell and good luck.

          Yours,
               ALEC.

Outside his mother's apartments he came upon Prince Michael's valet in whispered consultation
with Pauline and Princess Delgrado's maid. In the rush of events he had forgotten the two domestics
from the Rue Boissière.

"His Excellency will not need your services to-night," he said to the man, "and it will meet
his wishes in every respect if nothing is said to the other servants as to the departure of
the Princess for Paris."

"Precisely, your Majesty," smirked the Frenchman.

"You, of course," he went on, addressing the maid, "will accompany your mistress."

"Yes, your Majesty," she said, quite reassured by Alec's matter of fact manner.

A glance at Pauline's honest face showed that nothing had been said of the curious scene witnessed
in the bureau. To a certain extent, Joan's humble friend shared his confidence, and it was
evident that she had not betrayed it.

The departure of such a large party probably created some speculation among the palace servants;
but Nesimir did not put in an appearance, and no one dared to question the King's movements.
Alec had purposely allowed the barest time for the drive to the station. The midnight train,
not being an important express, carried few passengers, mostly traders returning to neighboring
towns in Austria after conducting the day's business in Delgratz. The King and his companions,
of course, were recognized; but again it was not to be expected that any official would trouble
them with inquiries.

Having secured a compartment for his mother and Beaumanoir, Alec made for the station master's
office, meaning to obtain a messenger who might be trusted to deliver Stampoff's letter, and
he happened to notice a policeman standing near a carriage door.

A white face peered out through the window. It was Sobieski. The King and the waiter were quitting
Delgratz by the same train!

Alec laughed, and the policeman saluted. "When the train has gone," said Alec, "I want you
to deliver this letter to General Stampoff."

"Yes, your Majesty," replied the man.

"It is important, remember. Here are ten rubles, and ask General Stampoff, with my compliments,
for the like amount. Take no denial from his servants. If he is in bed, he must be awaked.
Say that I sent you, and there should be no difficulty."

Precisely at midnight the train started. Quickly gathering speed, it ran through the tumbledown
suburbs of the city and rumbled across the iron bridge that spans the Tave River. In twenty
minutes it was at Semlin, and Austrian officials were examining passports. It was almost ludicrous
to find that they gave Alec and his mother a perfunctory glance; but Lord Adalbert Beaumanoir
excited their lively suspicion. One man, in particular, mounted guard outside the carriage,
and did not budge till the train moved on again.

"That chap remembers me," said Beaumanoir. "Did you notice how he glared? He was the johnny
I slung through the window."

At an early hour in the morning Joan was peering disconsolately through the window of a railway
carriage at the life and bustle of Budapest station. Felix had gone to purchase some newspapers,
and the girl was absorbed in gray thought when an official thrust head and shoulders into the
compartment and asked if the Fräulein Vernon, passenger from Delgratz to Paris, was within.

"Yes," gasped Joan, all the slight color flying from her cheeks and leaving her wan indeed.

"Here is a telegram for you, fräulein," said the man politely, and his civil tone, at least,
assured her that she was not to be dragged from the train and subjected to some mysterious
inquisition by Austrian police. "Sent care of the station master," he explained, "and we were
urgently requested to find you. Kindly sign this receipt."

She scribbled her name on a form, and the man carefully compared it with the superscription
on the telegram.

"Yes, that is right," he said, and at last the agitated girl was free to open this message
from the skies. It was written in German, probably to insure accurate transmission, and it read:

     My mother and I, together with Beaumanoir, left Delgratz seven
     hours later than you. Pauline accompanies us. We are returning to
     Paris after having settled affairs satisfactorily in Kosnovia.
     Please await our arrival in Budapest, and accept the statement
     without any qualification that there is no reason whatever why you
     should not do this.

          ALEC.

The amazing words were still dancing before her eyes when Felix came running along the platform.
He too had been identified by an official, and in his hand was another telegraphic slip.

"We need have no secrets between us now, my belle," he cried excitedly. "You guess what has
happened."

"Alec has left Delgratz--he and his mother--Oh, Felix! if he really sent this telegram, why
did he not explain things?"

"The explanation would be rather ticklish, when you come to think of it," said Felix dryly.
"The Austrian Government might take too keen an interest in it. Don't you understand, girl?
He has wrung the truth from some one. He is no longer a King, but a very devoted lover. Come,
we can pass the day pleasantly in Budapest. There is nothing else to be done. No sense in running
away merely for the fun of the thing. If Alec is not a King, there is no immediate probability
of your becoming a Queen. You will be plain Mrs. Somebody or other. Now I wonder what in the
world his new name is. The son of an American father would hardly be called Alexis. Horrible
thought! You may have to learn to love him all over again as Chauncey, or Hiram, or Phineas.
Tell me, mignonne, could you take him back to your heart as Phineas?"

Joan rose and stepped out on the platform. Poluski's chaffing outburst failed in its intent,
though, to his great relief, she did not break down as he feared. "Perhaps he will not want
me now, Felix," she said, and her eyes were shining.

"Oh, fiddlesticks!" cried the hunchback. "Why did he telegraph from the first wayside station
after leaving Semlin? Alec not want you! At this moment he is more proud that he is a free
born American than if a miracle almost beyond the powers of Heaven had made him a Delgrado."

Felix, cynic that he was, was secretly delighted when Joan discovered after breakfast that
a blouse which caught her eye in one of the Budapest shops was much more suitable for traveling
than that which she happened to be wearing. It was also significant that the dust which had
gathered in her hair during the long journey from Delgratz required a visit to a coiffeur.
These straws showed how the wind blew, he fancied.

And it was good to see the way Joan's face kindled when Alec clasped her in his arms. They
said little then. The why and the wherefore of events they left to another hour; but when Joan
extricated herself from her lover's embrace she turned to Princess Delgrado. The two women
exchanged an affectionate kiss; each looked at the other through a mist of tears. Words were
not needed. They understood, and that sufficed.

In a calmer moment Alec told Joan what had happened. He laid special stress on the fact that
his mother was quite determined to renounce her title and revert to the name she bore during
her first marriage.

"I never realized the tenth part of her suffering in Paris," he said, "though I knew far more
about Prince Michael's conduct than he guessed. We must make it our business, Joan, to bring
some brightness into her declining years. I have been planning our future all day in the train.
Shall I become the fortune teller this time?"

"Yes," she murmured, "and perhaps I may forget that I have cost you a Kingdom."

He laughed gayly, just as he used to laugh on those bright May mornings when he waited on the
Pont Neuf in the hope that he might be permitted to escort her to the Louvre.

"Never dream that I shall bring that up against you, dear heart," he said. "Delgratz ought
to advertise itself as a sure cure for ambition. I liked the people; but I hated the job, and
Kosnovia is already becoming a myth in my mind. I am rejoicing in my new name, Alexander Talbot.
I hope you like it. My mother tells me that my father was one of the strong men of the West.
I am called after him, it seems, and although my own name sounds strange to me I like the purposeful
ring in it."

Joan laughed merrily. "Felix was teasing me this morning by suggesting that you might have
been christened Phineas," she said.

"The wretch! And what if I was?"

She looked at him with a delightful shyness. "No matter what name you bore, you would always
be my Alec," she whispered.

They were leaning over the balcony of an open air restaurant at the moment; so Alec perforce
contented himself with clasping her hand.

"And now for my scheme, little girl," he said. "We will get married at once, of course."

She made no reply; but he felt the thrill that ran through her veins.

"Then," he went on, so gravely that she raised her eyes to his, seeking to catch his slightest
shade of meaning; for her heart was still troubled by the fear that she had wrought him evil,
"I will take you to America, my home. There is surely a nest for us out there. I have never
understood it before; but often, as a boy, I felt the call of the West. It was natural, I suppose.
We had many American friends in Paris, and my blood tingled when they spoke of the great rivers,
the prairies, the ocean lakes, the giant mountain ranges, and the far flung plains of that
wondrous continent which they describe with a reverent humor as God's own country. I feel that
I shall win a place for myself in the land of my birth, and my poor mother is aching to go
back there again."

He paused, and perhaps he hardly realized why Joan sighed with happiness; for she could believe,
at last, that he had never a pang for his lost kingship.

"It is my home, too, Alec," she cooed. "I was born in Vermont. We are going home together."

"Yes, dear, no more partings. We shall not be wealthy, Joan. It seems that the miserable little
humbug whom I have regarded as my father has wasted the whole of my mother's fortune by his
extravagance. The only scrap left is a small farm near Denver, and even that would have been
sold had not the crisis in Delgratz offered a wider scope for Michael's plundering instincts.
It is a strange thing, sweetheart, but on the day we parted in Paris--the day the news came
of the murder of Theodore and his wife--Prince Michael quarreled with my mother because she
refused to sanction the sale of that last shred of her inheritance. In order to vent his spite,
he had actually decided to tell me the secret of my birth in the very hour that Julius Marulitch
announced the disappearance of the Obrenovitch dynasty."

"And the goddess sent you east instead of west," she said softly.

"Yes, my trial has been short and sharp; but she must have found me worthy, since she has given
me--you."

They reached Paris next evening; but by that time the newspapers were hot on the scent of the
missing King. So far as could be judged from the reports telegraphed by French correspondents
in Delgratz, Stampoff had remained true to his dream of a monarchy. For lack of a better, Michael
was King. Some one, Beliani probably, had issued a statement that the infatuation of Alexis
III. for a pretty Parisian artist had led him to abdicate, and as soon as it was discovered
that the Delgrado flat in the Rue Boissière was again occupied by Alec and his mother, they
were besieged by reporters anxious to glean details of a royal romance.

They decided, therefore, to leave Paris for London, where, under the name of Talbot, they might
hope to escape such unwelcome attentions. It was no easy matter to shake off the horde of eager
pressmen; but they succeeded at last, and when Alec and Joan were quietly married in a West
End church, no one, except the officiating minister, had the least knowledge of their identity.

After a brief honeymoon in Devon they rejoined Mrs. Talbot, and the three sailed from Southampton,
whither came Felix and Beaumanoir to bid them farewell. Bosko and Pauline were on the same
ship. The taciturn Serb had positively refused to leave his master, though Alec pointed out
that his fallen fortunes hardly warranted him in retaining a valet, while Pauline, whom recent
circumstances had thrown a good deal in Bosko's company, declared that Paris no longer had
any attractions for her. Without consulting any one the two got married, and astounded Mrs.
Talbot one fine morning by announcing the fact.

At the last moment Joan almost persuaded Felix to go with her and her husband; but he tore
himself away.

"I peeped into the Grande Galerie the other morning," he said, with a real sob in his voice,
"and my poor Madonna looked so lonely! There was no one with her; just a few painted angels
and a couple of gaping tourists. I must go back. Some day you will come to the Louvre, and
you will find me there, le pauvre Bourdon, still singing and painting."

He began to hum furiously. When the gangway was lowered, and the great ship sidled slowly but
relentlessly away from the quay, he struck the tremendous opening note of "Ernani."

Beaumanoir grabbed him by the collar. "Shut up, you idiot!" he said, not smiling at all, for
he loved Alec. "This is England. If you sing here, a bobby will run you in. An', anyhow, blank
it! why do you want to sing? This isn't a smoking concert. It's more like a bally funeral!"

CHAPTER XV

THE ENVOY

In the autumn of the following year, Joan was seated one day in the garden of her pretty suburban
house at Denver. Not far away glittered a silvery lake; beyond a densely wooded plain rose
the blue amphitheater of the Rocky Mountains; the distant clang of a gong told of street cars
and the busy life of one of America's most thriving and picturesque cities.

She was somewhat more fragile than when she crossed the Pont Neuf on that fine morning in May
eighteen months ago; but she looked and felt supremely happy, for Alec would soon be home from
his office, where already he was proving that the qualities which made him a good King were
now in a fair way toward establishing his position as a leading citizen of his native State.
By her side in a dainty cot reposed another Alec, whose age might not yet be measured by many
weeks, but whose size and lustiness proclaimed him--in his own special circle, at any rate--the
most remarkable baby that ever "occurred" in Colorado.

Mrs. Talbot, Senior, tired of reading, was now dozing peacefully in an easy chair on the other
side of the cot. The day had been warm; but the evening air brought with it the crisp touch
of autumn, and Joan was about to summon Pauline, who--with honorable mention of the unchanging
Bosko--had solved for the young couple the most perplexing problem of American life,--when
the click of the garden gate caught her ear and she heard her husband's firm step. He stooped
and kissed her.

"I hope you have passed the whole day in the garden, sweetheart," he said.

"Yes," she replied, "I was just going to send baby indoors. Will you tell Pauline it is time
he was in bed; but do not disturb your mother. She's asleep."

"Baby can wait one minute," he said. "He looks quite contented where he is. There is news from
Delgratz," he added in a lower voice. "King Michael is dead."

An expression of real sympathy swept across Joan's beautiful face. "I am sorry to hear that,"
she said. Then, with the innate desire of every high-minded woman to find good where there
seems to be naught but evil, she added, "Perhaps, when he reached the throne, he may have mended
his ways and striven to be a better man. Did he die suddenly?"

"Yes," and a curious inflection in Alec's voice caused his wife to glance anxiously toward
the sleeping woman.

"Was there a tragedy?" she whispered.

"Something of the sort. The details are hardly known yet, and the telegrams published in our
Denver newspapers are not quite explicit. There is an allusion to a disturbance in a local
theater, during which the heir apparent, Count Julius Marulitch, was fatally stabbed."

"Oh!" gasped Joan.

"It would seem that this incident took place several days ago, but escaped notice in the American
press at the time. Attention is drawn to it now by the fact that King Michael was found dead
in his apartments at an early hour yesterday morning, and it is rumored that he was poisoned."

"How dreadful!" she gasped. "It will shock your mother terribly when she hears of it."

"It is an odd feature of the affair," went on Alec, "that the telegram describes the King as
residing in the New Konak. I suppose he passed the summer months there, and had not yet returned
to Delgratz. Delightful as the place was, I am glad now we never lived there, Joan."

She rose and caught him by the arm. "Alec," she murmured, "Heaven was very good to us in sending
us away from that Inferno! You never regret those days, do you? You never think, deep down
in your heart, that if it had not been for me you would still be a King?"

He laughed so cheerfully that the sound of his mirth woke both his mother and the baby.

"What is it?" asked Mrs. Talbot, scanning the faces of her son and his wife with a whole world
of affection in her kindly eyes.

"Well, nothing to laugh about, mother," said he, "since I was just telling Joan that the end
has come for some one in Kosnovia; but----"

"Is Michael dead?" interrupted his mother, paling a little.

"Yes, mother, he is."

She bent her head in brief reverie, and when she looked up again she seemed to be gazing at
the smiling landscape. But they knew better. Her thoughts had flown many a mile from Colorado.

"May Heaven be more merciful to him than he was to me!" she said at last, and that was her
requiem for the man to whom she had given her best days. She forgave him; but she could not
find it in her heart to regret his loss.

When the New York papers reached Denver, the small household--whose interest in the affairs
of far off Kosnovia was little dreamed of by their neighbors--gleaned fuller details of the
tragedy that had again overwhelmed the Delgrados. Many times did the conversation turn to the
tiny Kingdom with which their own lives had been so intimately bound up. So far as the American
press was concerned, the topic was soon forgotten; but Alec, having obtained a Budapest journal,
found that Stampoff, Beliani, and Sergius Nesimir were taking steps to form a Republic.

"Sometimes," said Alec during their talk that evening, "it is the expected that happens."

"I suppose," said Joan musingly, "that the unlucky little Principality ought to prosper under
a popular Government--unless----" She paused, and her husband was quick to interpret her thought.

"Unless they obtain the right sort of King," he cried.

"Perhaps that is impossible since you are here, dear," she said softly.

"Is that bee still buzzing in your bonnet?" he laughed. "I agree with you, Joan; it was a pity
I let go so promptly."

She lifted her startled eyes to his. "Oh, Alec!" she cried, "you don't mean it!"

"I do, sweetheart," he said with a marked seriousness that puzzled her. "It was sheer selfishness
that drove me from Kosnovia. I honestly believe I should have cracked up under the weight of
empire; but just fancy what a wonderful Queen you would have made!"

"Oh, don't be stupid," she cried. "You almost frightened me."

Alec's mother put in a gentle word. "If ever either of you is tempted to regret the loss of
a throne, you ought to devote half an hour to reading the history of Kosnovia," she said. "You
are happy, and that is what you would never have been in the Balkans. A curse rests on that
unlucky land. Never a Delgrado or Obrenovitch has reigned a decade in peace and security. It
was a red letter day for Alec when you brought him away from Delgratz, my dear," she continued,
with a fond pressure of her hand on Joan's brown hair. "None of us knew it at the time; but
there are events in life that, like certain short and sharp diseases, leave us all the better
when they have passed, though their severity may try us cruelly at the time."

The Indian summer day was drawing to a close, and Bosko entered to close the windows and pull
down the blinds. The sight of him moved Alec to speak in that sonorous Serbian tongue which
was already foreign to his own ears.

"Do you like America, Bosko?" he said.

The imperturbable one almost started; for it was long since he had heard any words in his own
language.

"Oui, monsieur," he said.

"And would you go back to Delgratz if you had the opportunity?"

