THE COLOUR OF LIFE

Contents:

The Colour of Life A Point Of Biography Cloud Winds of the World The Honours of Mortality At
Monastery Gates Rushes and Reeds Eleonora Duse Donkey Races Grass A Woman in Grey Symmetry
and Incident The Illusion of Historic Time Eyes

THE COLOUR OF LIFE

Red has been praised for its nobility as the colour of life.  But the true colour of life is
not red.  Red is the colour of violence, or of life broken open, edited, and published.  Or
if red is indeed the colour of life, it is so only on condition that it is not seen.  Once
fully visible, red is the colour of life violated, and in the act of betrayal and of waste.
Red is the secret of life, and not the manifestation thereof.  It is one of the things the
value of which is secrecy, one of the talents that are to be hidden in a napkin.  The true
colour of life is the colour of the body, the colour of the covered red, the implicit and not
explicit red of the living heart and the pulses.  It is the modest colour of the unpublished blood.

So bright, so light, so soft, so mingled, the gentle colour of life is outdone by all the colours
of the world.  Its very beauty is that it is white, but less white than milk; brown, but less
brown than earth; red, but less red than sunset or dawn.  It is lucid, but less lucid than
the colour of lilies.  It has the hint of gold that is in all fine colour; but in our latitudes
the hint is almost elusive.  Under Sicilian skies, indeed, it is deeper than old ivory; but
under the misty blue of the English zenith, and the warm grey of the London horizon, it is
as delicately flushed as the paler wild roses, out to their utmost, flat as stars, in the hedges
of the end of June.

For months together London does not see the colour of life in any mass. The human face does
not give much of it, what with features, and beards, and the shadow of the top-hat and chapeau
melon of man, and of the veils of woman.  Besides, the colour of the face is subject to a thousand
injuries and accidents.  The popular face of the Londoner has soon lost its gold, its white,
and the delicacy of its red and brown.  We miss little beauty by the fact that it is never
seen freely in great numbers out-of-doors.  You get it in some quantity when all the heads
of a great indoor meeting are turned at once upon a speaker; but it is only in the open air,
needless to say, that the colour of life is in perfection, in the open air, "clothed with the
sun," whether the sunshine be golden and direct, or dazzlingly diffused in grey.

The little figure of the London boy it is that has restored to the landscape the human colour
of life.  He is allowed to come out of all his ignominies, and to take the late colour of the
midsummer north-west evening, on the borders of the Serpentine.  At the stroke of eight he
sheds the slough of nameless colours--all allied to the hues of dust, soot, and fog, which
are the colours the world has chosen for its boys--and he makes, in his hundreds, a bright
and delicate flush between the grey-blue water and the grey-blue sky.  Clothed now with the
sun, he is crowned by-and-by with twelve stars as he goes to bathe, and the reflection of an
early moon is under his feet.

So little stands between a gamin and all the dignities of Nature.  They are so quickly restored.
There seems to be nothing to do, but only a little thing to undo.  It is like the art of Eleonora
Duse.  The last and most finished action of her intellect, passion, and knowledge is, as it
were, the flicking away of some insignificant thing mistaken for art by other actors, some
little obstacle to the way and liberty of Nature.

All the squalor is gone in a moment, kicked off with the second boot, and the child goes shouting
to complete the landscape with the lacking colour of life.  You are inclined to wonder that,
even undressed, he still shouts with a Cockney accent.  You half expect pure vowels and elastic
syllables from his restoration, his spring, his slenderness, his brightness, and his glow.
Old ivory and wild rose in the deepening midsummer sun, he gives his colours to his world again.

It is easy to replace man, and it will take no great time, where Nature has lapsed, to replace
Nature.  It is always to do, by the happily easy way of doing nothing.  The grass is always
ready to grow in the streets--and no streets could ask for a more charming finish than your
green grass.  The gasometer even must fall to pieces unless it is renewed; but the grass renews
itself.  There is nothing so remediable as the work of modern man--"a thought which is also,"
as Mr Pecksniff said, "very soothing."  And by remediable I mean, of course, destructible.
As the bathing child shuffles off his garments--they are few, and one brace suffices him--so
the land might always, in reasonable time, shuffle off its yellow brick and purple slate, and
all the things that collect about railway stations.  A single night almost clears the air of
London.

But if the colour of life looks so well in the rather sham scenery of Hyde Park, it looks brilliant
and grave indeed on a real sea-coast.  To have once seen it there should be enough to make
a colourist.  O memorable little picture!  The sun was gaining colour as it neared setting,
and it set not over the sea, but over the land.  The sea had the dark and rather stern, but
not cold, blue of that aspect--the dark and not the opal tints.  The sky was also deep.  Everything
was very definite, without mystery, and exceedingly simple.  The most luminous thing was the
shining white of an edge of foam, which did not cease to be white because it was a little golden
and a little rosy in the sunshine. It was still the whitest thing imaginable.  And the next
most luminous thing was the little child, also invested with the sun and the colour of life.

In the case of women, it is of the living and unpublished blood that the violent world has
professed to be delicate and ashamed.  See the curious history of the political rights of woman
under the Revolution.  On the scaffold she enjoyed an ungrudged share in the fortunes of party.
Political life might be denied her, but that seems a trifle when you consider how generously
she was permitted political death.  She was to spin and cook for her citizen in the obscurity
of her living hours; but to the hour of her death was granted a part in the largest interests,
social, national, international.  The blood wherewith she should, according to Robespierre,
have blushed to be seen or heard in the tribune, was exposed in the public sight unsheltered
by her veins.

Against this there was no modesty.  Of all privacies, the last and the innermost--the privacy
of death--was never allowed to put obstacles in the way of public action for a public cause.
Women might be, and were, duly suppressed when, by the mouth of Olympe de Gouges, they claimed
a "right to concur in the choice of representatives for the formation of the laws"; but in
her person, too, they were liberally allowed to bear political responsibility to the Republic.
Olympe de Gouges was guillotined.  Robespierre thus made her public and complete amends.

A POINT OF BIOGRAPHY

There is hardly a writer now--of the third class probably not one--who has not something sharp
and sad to say about the cruelty of Nature; not one who is able to attempt May in the woods
without a modern reference to the manifold death and destruction with which the air, the branches,
the mosses are said to be full.

But no one has paused in the course of these phrases to take notice of the curious and conspicuous
fact of the suppression of death and of the dead throughout this landscape of manifest life.
Where are they--all the dying, all the dead, of the populous woods?  Where do they hide their
little last hours, where are they buried?  Where is the violence concealed?  Under what gay
custom and decent habit?  You may see, it is true, an earth-worm in a robin's beak, and may
hear a thrush breaking a snail's shell; but these little things are, as it were, passed by
with a kind of twinkle for apology, as by a well-bred man who does openly some little solecism
which is too slight for direct mention, and which a meaner man might hide or avoid.  Unless
you are very modern indeed, you twinkle back at the bird.

But otherwise there is nothing visible of the havoc and the prey and plunder.  It is certain
that much of the visible life passes violently into other forms, flashes without pause into
another flame; but not all. Amid all the killing there must be much dying.  There are, for
instance, few birds of prey left in our more accessible counties now, and many thousands of
birds must die uncaught by a hawk and unpierced.  But if their killing is done so modestly,
so then is their dying also.  Short lives have all these wild things, but there are innumerable
flocks of them always alive; they must die, then, in innumerable flocks.  And yet they keep
the millions of the dead out of sight.

Now and then, indeed, they may be betrayed.  It happened in a cold winter.  The late frosts
were so sudden, and the famine was so complete, that the birds were taken unawares.  The sky
and the earth conspired that February to make known all the secrets; everything was published.
Death was manifest.  Editors, when a great man dies, are not more resolute than was the frost
of '95.

The birds were obliged to die in public.  They were surprised and forced to do thus.  They
became like Shelley in the monument which the art and imagination of England combined to raise
to his memory at Oxford.

Frost was surely at work in both cases, and in both it wrought wrong. There is a similarity
of unreason in betraying the death of a bird and in exhibiting the death of Shelley.  The death
of a soldier--passe encore.  But the death of Shelley was not his goal.  And the death of the
birds is so little characteristic of them that, as has just been said, no one in the world
is aware of their dying, except only in the case of birds in cages, who, again, are compelled
to die with observation.  The woodland is guarded and kept by a rule.  There is no display
of the battlefield in the fields.  There is no tale of the game- bag, no boast.  The hunting
goes on, but with strange decorum.  You may pass a fine season under the trees, and see nothing
dead except here and there where a boy has been by, or a man with a trap, or a man with a gun.
There is nothing like a butcher's shop in the woods.

But the biographers have always had other ways than those of the wild world.  They will not
have a man to die out of sight.  I have turned over scores of "Lives," not to read them, but
to see whether now and again there might be a "Life" which was not more emphatically a death.
But there never is a modern biography that has taken the hint of Nature.  One and all, these
books have the disproportionate illness, the death out of all scale.

Even more wanton than the disclosure of a death is that of a mortal illness.  If the man had
recovered, his illness would have been rightly his own secret.  But because he did not recover,
it is assumed to be news for the first comer.  Which of us would suffer the details of any
physical suffering, over and done in our own lives, to be displayed and described?  This is
not a confidence we have a mind to make; and no one is authorised to ask for attention or pity
on our behalf.  The story of pain ought not to be told of us, seeing that by us it would assuredly
not be told.

There is only one other thing that concerns a man still more exclusively, and that is his own
mental illness, or the dreams and illusions of a long delirium.  When he is in common language
not himself, amends should be made for so bitter a paradox; he should be allowed such solitude
as is possible to the alienated spirit; he should be left to the "not himself," and spared
the intrusion against which he can so ill guard that he could hardly have even resented it.

The double helplessness of delusion and death should keep the door of Rossetti's house, for
example, and refuse him to the reader.  His mortal illness had nothing to do with his poetry.
Some rather affected objection is taken every now and then to the publication of some facts
(others being already well known) in the life of Shelley.  Nevertheless, these are all, properly
speaking, biography.  What is not biography is the detail of the accident of the manner of
his death, the detail of his cremation.  Or if it was to be told--told briefly--it was certainly
not for marble.  Shelley's death had no significance, except inasmuch as he died young.  It
was a detachable and disconnected incident.  Ah, that was a frost of fancy and of the heart
that used it so, dealing with an insignificant fact, and conferring a futile immortality. 
Those are ill- named biographers who seem to think that a betrayal of the ways of death is
a part of their ordinary duty, and that if material enough for a last chapter does not lie
to their hand they are to search it out.  They, of all survivors, are called upon, in honour
and reason, to look upon a death with more composure.  To those who loved the dead closely,
this is, for a time, impossible.  To them death becomes, for a year, disproportionate.  Their
dreams are fixed upon it night by night.  They have, in those dreams, to find the dead in some
labyrinth; they have to mourn his dying and to welcome his recovery in such a mingling of distress
and of always incredulous happiness as is not known even to dreams save in that first year
of separation.  But they are not biographers.

If death is the privacy of the woods, it is the more conspicuously secret because it is their
only privacy.  You may watch or may surprise everything else.  The nest is retired, not hidden.
The chase goes on everywhere.  It is wonderful how the perpetual chase seems to cause no perpetual
fear.  The songs are all audible.  Life is undefended, careless, nimble and noisy.

It is a happy thing that minor artists have ceased, or almost ceased, to paint dead birds.
Time was when they did it continually in that British School of water-colour art, stippled,
of which surrounding nations, it was agreed, were envious.  They must have killed their bird
to paint him, for he is not to be caught dead.  A bird is more easily caught alive than dead.

A poet, on the contrary, is easily--too easily--caught dead.  Minor artists now seldom stipple
the bird on its back, but a good sculptor and a University together modelled their Shelley
on his back, unessentially drowned; and everybody may read about the sick mind of Dante Rossetti.

CLOUD

During a part of the year London does not see the clouds.  Not to see the clear sky might seem
her chief loss, but that is shared by the rest of England, and is, besides, but a slight privation.
Not to see the clear sky is, elsewhere, to see the cloud.  But not so in London.  You may go
for a week or two at a time, even though you hold your head up as you walk, and even though
you have windows that really open, and yet you shall see no cloud, or but a single edge, the
fragment of a form.

Guillotine windows never wholly open, but are filled with a doubled glass towards the sky when
you open them towards the street.  They are, therefore, a sure sign that for all the years
when no other windows were used in London, nobody there cared much for the sky, or even knew
so much as whether there were a sky.

But the privation of cloud is indeed a graver loss than the world knows. Terrestrial scenery
is much, but it is not all.  Men go in search of it; but the celestial scenery journeys to
them.  It goes its way round the world.  It has no nation, it costs no weariness, it knows
no bonds.  The terrestrial scenery--the tourist's--is a prisoner compared with this.  The tourist's
scenery moves indeed, but only like Wordsworth's maiden, with earth's diurnal course; it is
made as fast as its own graves.  And for its changes it depends upon the mobility of the skies.
The mere green flushing of its own sap makes only the least of its varieties; for the greater
it must wait upon the visits of the light.  Spring and autumn are inconsiderable events in
a landscape compared with the shadows of a cloud.

The cloud controls the light, and the mountains on earth appear or fade according to its passage;
they wear so simply, from head to foot, the luminous grey or the emphatic purple, as the cloud
permits, that their own local colour and their own local season are lost and cease, effaced
before the all-important mood of the cloud.

The sea has no mood except that of the sky and of its winds.  It is the cloud that, holding
the sun's rays in a sheaf as a giant holds a handful of spears, strikes the horizon, touches
the extreme edge with a delicate revelation of light, or suddenly puts it out and makes the
foreground shine.

Every one knows the manifest work of the cloud when it descends and partakes in the landscape
obviously, lies half-way across the mountain slope, stoops to rain heavily upon the lake, and
blots out part of the view by the rough method of standing in front of it.  But its greatest
things are done from its own place, aloft.  Thence does it distribute the sun.

Thence does it lock away between the hills and valleys more mysteries than a poet conceals,
but, like him, not by interception.  Thence it writes out and cancels all the tracery of Monte
Rosa, or lets the pencils of the sun renew them.  Thence, hiding nothing, and yet making dark,
it sheds deep colour upon the forest land of Sussex, so that, seen from the hills, all the
country is divided between grave blue and graver sunlight.

And all this is but its influence, its secondary work upon the world.  Its own beauty is unaltered
when it has no earthly beauty to improve.  It is always great: above the street, above the
suburbs, above the gas-works and the stucco, above the faces of painted white houses--the painted
surfaces that have been devised as the only things able to vulgarise light, as they catch it
and reflect it grotesquely from their importunate gloss.  This is to be well seen on a sunny
evening in Regent Street.

Even here the cloud is not so victorious as when it towers above some little landscape of rather
paltry interest--a conventional river heavy with water, gardens with their little evergreens,
walks, and shrubberies; and thick trees impervious to the light, touched, as the novelists
always have it, with "autumn tints."  High over these rises, in the enormous scale of the scenery
of clouds, what no man expected--an heroic sky.  Few of the things that were ever done upon
earth are great enough to be done under such a heaven.  It was surely designed for other days.
It is for an epic world.  Your eyes sweep a thousand miles of cloud.  What are the distances
of earth to these, and what are the distances of the clear and cloudless sky?  The very horizons
of the landscape are near, for the round world dips so soon; and the distances of the mere
clear sky are unmeasured--you rest upon nothing until you come to a star, and the star itself
is immeasurable.

But in the sky of "sunny Alps" of clouds the sight goes farther, with conscious flight, than
it could ever have journeyed otherwise.  Man would not have known distance veritably without
the clouds.  There are mountains indeed, precipices and deeps, to which those of the earth
are pigmy.  Yet the sky-heights, being so far off, are not overpowering by disproportion, like
some futile building fatuously made too big for the human measure.  The cloud in its majestic
place composes with a little Perugino tree.  For you stand or stray in the futile building,
while the cloud is no mansion for man, and out of reach of his limitations.

The cloud, moreover, controls the sun, not merely by keeping the custody of his rays, but by
becoming the counsellor of his temper.  The cloud veils an angry sun, or, more terribly, lets
fly an angry ray, suddenly bright upon tree and tower, with iron-grey storm for a background.
Or when anger had but threatened, the cloud reveals him, gentle beyond hope. It makes peace,
constantly, just before sunset.

It is in the confidence of the winds, and wears their colours.  There is a heavenly game, on
south-west wind days, when the clouds are bowled by a breeze from behind the evening.  They
are round and brilliant, and come leaping up from the horizon for hours.  This is a frolic
and haphazard sky.

All unlike this is the sky that has a centre, and stands composed about it.  As the clouds
marshalled the earthly mountains, so the clouds in turn are now ranged.  The tops of all the
celestial Andes aloft are swept at once by a single ray, warmed with a single colour.  Promontory
after league-long promontory of a stiller Mediterranean in the sky is called out of mist and
grey by the same finger.  The cloudland is very great, but a sunbeam makes all its nations
and continents sudden with light.

All this is for the untravelled.  All the winds bring him this scenery. It is only in London,
for part of the autumn and part of the winter, that the unnatural smoke-fog comes between.
And for many and many a day no London eye can see the horizon, or the first threat of the cloud
like a man's hand.  There never was a great painter who had not exquisite horizons, and if
Corot and Crome were right, the Londoner loses a great thing.

He loses the coming of the cloud, and when it is high in air he loses its shape.  A cloud-lover
is not content to see a snowy and rosy head piling into the top of the heavens; he wants to
see the base and the altitude. The perspective of a cloud is a great part of its design--whether
it lies so that you can look along the immense horizontal distances of its floor, or whether
it rears so upright a pillar that you look up its mountain steeps in the sky as you look at
the rising heights of a mountain that stands, with you, on the earth.

The cloud has a name suggesting darkness; nevertheless, it is not merely the guardian of the
sun's rays and their director.  It is the sun's treasurer; it holds the light that the world
has lost.  We talk of sunshine and moonshine, but not of cloud-shine, which is yet one of the
illuminations of our skies.  A shining cloud is one of the most majestic of all secondary lights.
If the reflecting moon is the bride, this is the friend of the bridegroom.

Needless to say, the cloud of a thunderous summer is the most beautiful of all.  It has spaces
of a grey for which there is no name, and no other cloud looks over at a vanishing sun from
such heights of blue air.  The shower-cloud, too, with its thin edges, comes across the sky
with so influential a flight that no ship going out to sea can be better worth watching.  The
dullest thing perhaps in the London streets is that people take their rain there without knowing
anything of the cloud that drops it.  It is merely rain, and means wetness.  The shower-cloud
there has limits of time, but no limits of form, and no history whatever.  It has not come
from the clear edge of the plain to the south, and will not shoulder anon the hill to the north.
The rain, for this city, hardly comes or goes; it does but begin and stop.  No one looks after
it on the path of its retreat.

WINDS OF THE WORLD

Every wind is, or ought to be, a poet; but one is classic and converts everything in his day
co-unity; another is a modern man, whose words clothe his thoughts, as the modern critics used
to say prettily in the early sixties, and therefore are separable.  This wind, again, has a
style, and that wind a mere manner.  Nay, there are breezes from the east- south-east, for
example, that have hardly even a manner.  You can hardly name them unless you look at the weather
vane.  So they do not convince you by voice or colour of breath; you place their origin and
assign them a history according as the hesitating arrow points on the top of yonder ill-designed
London spire.

The most certain and most conquering of all is the south-west wind.  You do not look to the
weather-vane to decide what shall be the style of your greeting to his morning.  There is no
arbitrary rule of courtesy between you and him, and you need no arrow to point to his distinctions,
and to indicate to you the right manner of treating such a visitant.

He prepares the dawn.  While it is still dark the air is warned of his presence, and before
the window was opened he was already in the room. His sun--for the sun is his--rises in a south-west
mood, with a bloom on the blue, the grey, or the gold.  When the south-west is cold, the cold
is his own cold--round, blunt, full, and gradual in its very strength.  It is a fresh cold,
that comes with an approach, and does not challenge you in the manner of an unauthorised stranger,
but instantly gets your leave, and even a welcome to your house of life.  He follows your breath
in at your throat, and your eyes are open to let him in, even when he is cold. Your blood cools,
but does not hide from him.

He has a splendid way with his sky.  In his flight, which is that, not of a bird, but of a
flock of birds, he flies high and low at once: high with his higher clouds, that keep long
in the sight of man, seeming to move slowly; and low with the coloured clouds that breast the
hills and are near to the tree-tops.  These the south-west wind tosses up from his soft horizon,
round and successive.  They are tinted somewhat like ripe clover- fields, or like hay-fields
just before the cutting, when all the grass is in flower, and they are, oftener than all other
clouds, in shadow.  These low-lying flocks are swift and brief; the wind casts them before
him, from the western verge to the eastern.

Corot has painted so many south-west winds that one might question whether he ever painted,
in his later manner at least, any others.  His skies are thus in the act of flight, with lower
clouds outrunning the higher, the farther vapours moving like a fleet out at sea, and the nearer
like dolphins.  In his "Classical Landscape: Italy," the master has indeed for once a sky that
seems at anchor, or at least that moves with "no pace perceived."  The vibrating wings are
folded, and Corot's wind, that flew through so many springs, summers, and Septembers for him
(he was seldom a painter of very late autumn), that was mingled with so many aspen-leaves,
that strewed his forests with wood for the gatherer, and blew the broken lights into the glades,
is charmed into stillness, and the sky into another kind of immortality.  Nor are the trees
in this antique landscape the trees so long intimate with Corot's south-west wind, so often
entangled with his uncertain twilights.  They are as quiet as the cloud, and such as the long
and wild breezes of Romance have never shaken or enlaced.

Upon all our islands this south-west wind is the sea wind.  But elsewhere there are sea winds
that are not from the south-west.  They, too, none the less, are conquerors.  They, too, are
always strong, compelling winds that take possession of the light, the shadow, the sun, moon,
and stars, and constrain them all alike to feel the sea.  Not a field, not a hillside, on a
sea-wind day, but shines with some soft sea-lights.  The moon's little boat tosses on a sea-wind
night.

The south-west wind takes the high Italian coasts.  He gathers the ilex woods together and
throngs them close, as a sheep-dog gathers the sheep. They crowd for shelter, and a great wall,
leaning inland also, with its strong base to the sea, receives them.  It is blank and sunny,
and the trees within are sunny and dark, serried, and their tops swept and flattened by months
of sea-storms.  On the farther side there are gardens--gardens that have in their midst those
quietest things in all the world and most windless, box-hedges and ponds.  The gardens take
shelter behind the scared and hurried ilex woods, and the sea-wind spares them and breaks upon
the mountain.  But the garden also is his, and his wild warm days have filled it with orange-trees
and roses, and have given all the abundant charm to its gay neglect, to its grass-grown terraces,
and to all its lapsed, forsaken, and forgotten dainties.

Nothing of the nature in this seaward Italy would be so beautiful without the touch of man
and of the sea gales.

When the south-west wind brings his rain he brings it with the majestic onset announced by
his breath.  And when the light follows, it comes from his own doorway in the verge.  His are
the opened evenings after a day shut down with cloud.  He fills the air with innumerable particles
of moisture that scatter and bestow the sun.  There are no other days like his, of so universal
a harmony, so generous.

The north wind has his own landscape, too; but the east wind never.  The aspect which he gives
to the day is not all his own.  The sunshine is sweet in spite of him.  The clouds go under
his whip, but they have kinder greys than should be the colours of his cold.  Not on an east-wind
day are these races in heaven, for the clouds are all far off.  His rain is angry, and it flies
against the sunset.  The world is not one in his reign, but rather there is a perpetual revolt
or difference.  The lights and shadows are not all his.  The waxing and waning hours are disaffected.
He has not a great style, and does not convince the day.

All the four winds are brave, and not the less brave because, on their way through town, they
are betrayed for a moment into taking part in any paltriness that may be there.  On their way
from the Steppes to the Atlantic they play havoc with the nerves of very insignificant people.
A part, as it were, of every gale that starts in the far north-east finds its goal in the breath
of a reluctant citizen.

You will meet a wind of the world nimble and eager in a sorry street.  But these are only accidents
of the way--the winds go free again.  Those that do not go free, but close their course, are
those that are breathed by the nostrils of living creatures.  A great flock of those wild birds
come to a final pause in London, and fan the fires of life with those wings in the act of folding.
In the blood and breath of a child close the influences of continent and sea.

THE HONOURS OF MORTALITY

The brilliant talent which has quite lately and quite suddenly arisen, to devote itself to
the use of the day or of the week, in illustrated papers--the enormous production of art in
black and white--is assuredly a confession that the Honours of Mortality are worth working
for.  Fifty years ago, men worked for the honours of immortality; these were the commonplace
of their ambition; they declined to attend to the beauty of things of use that were destined
to be broken and worn out, and they looked forward to surviving themselves by painting bad
pictures; so that what to do with their bad pictures in addition to our own has become the
problem of the nation and of the householder alike.  To-day men have began to learn that their
sons will be grateful to them for few bequests. Art consents at last to work upon the tissue
and the china that are doomed to the natural and necessary end--destruction; and art shows
a most dignified alacrity to do her best, daily, for the "process," and for oblivion.

Doubtless this abandonment of hopes so large at once and so cheap costs the artist something;
nay, it implies an acceptance of the inevitable that is not less than heroic.  And the reward
has been in the singular and manifest increase of vitality in this work which is done for so
short a life.  Fittingly indeed does life reward the acceptance of death, inasmuch as to die
is to have been alive.  There is a real circulation of blood-quick use, brief beauty, abolition,
recreation.  The honour of the day is for ever the honour of that day.  It goes into the treasury
of things that are honestly and--completely ended and done with.  And when can so happy a thing
be said of a lifeless oil-painting?  Who of the wise would hesitate?  To be honourable for
one day--one named and dated day, separate from all other days of the ages--or to be for an
unlimited time tedious?

AT MONASTERY GATES

No woman has ever crossed the inner threshold, or shall ever cross it, unless a queen, English
or foreign, should claim her privilege. Therefore, if a woman records here the slighter things
visible of the monastic life, it is only because she was not admitted to see more than beautiful
courtesy and friendliness were able to show her in guest-house and garden.

The Monastery is of fresh-looking Gothic, by Pugin--the first of the dynasty: it is reached
by the white roads of a limestone country, and backed by a young plantation, and it gathers
its group of buildings in a cleft high up among the hills of Wales.  The brown habit is this,
and these are the sandals, that come and go by hills of finer, sharper, and loftier line, edging
the dusk and dawn of an Umbrian sky.  Just such a Via Crucis climbs the height above Orta,
and from the foot of its final crucifix you can see the sunrise touch the top of Monte Rosa,
while the encircled lake below is cool with the last of the night.  The same order of friars
keep that sub-Alpine Monte Sacro, and the same have set the Kreuzberg beyond Bonn with the
same steep path by the same fourteen chapels, facing the Seven Mountains and the Rhine.

Here, in North Wales, remote as the country is, with the wheat green over the blunt hill-tops,
and the sky vibrating with larks, a long wing of smoke lies round the horizon.  The country,
rather thinly and languidly cultivated above, has a valuable sub-soil, and is burrowed with
mines; the breath of pit and factory, out of sight, thickens the lower sky, and lies heavily
over the sands of Dee.  It leaves the upper blue clear and the head of Orion, but dims the
flicker of Sirius and shortens the steady ray of the evening star.  The people scattered about
are not mining people, but half-hearted agriculturists, and very poor.  Their cottages are
rather cabins; not a tiled roof is in the country, but the slates have taken some beauty with
time, having dips and dimples, and grass upon their edges.  The walls are all thickly whitewashed,
which is a pleasure to see.  How willingly would one swish the harmless whitewash over more
than half the colour--over all the chocolate and all the blue--with which the buildings of
the world are stained!  You could not wish for a better, simpler, or fresher harmony than whitewash
makes with the slight sunshine and the bright grey of an English sky.

The grey-stone, grey-roofed monastery looks young in one sense--it is modern; and the friars
look young in another--they are like their brothers of an earlier time.  No one, except the
journalists of yesterday, would spend upon them those tedious words, "quaint," or "old world."
No such weary adjectives are spoken here, unless it be by the excursionists.

With large aprons tied over their brown habits, the Lay Brothers work upon their land, planting
parsnips in rows, or tending a prosperous bee- farm.  A young friar, who sang the High Mass
yesterday, is gaily hanging the washed linen in the sun.  A printing press, and a machine which
slices turnips, are at work in an outhouse, and the yard thereby is guarded by a St Bernard,
whose single evil deed was that under one of the obscure impulses of a dog's heart--atoned
for by long and self-conscious remorse--he bit the poet; and tried, says one of the friars,
to make doggerel of him.  The poet, too, lives at the monastery gates, and on monastery ground,
in a seclusion which the tidings of the sequence of his editions hardly reaches.  There is
no disturbing renown to be got among the cabins of the Flintshire hills.  Homeward, over the
verge, from other valleys, his light figure flits at nightfall, like a moth.

To the coming and going of the friars, too, the village people have become well used, and the
infrequent excursionists, for lack of intelligence and of any knowledge that would refer to
history, look at them without obtrusive curiosity.  It was only from a Salvation Army girl
that you heard the brutal word of contempt.  She had come to the place with some companions,
and with them was trespassing, as she was welcome to do, within the monastery grounds.  She
stood, a figure for Bournemouth pier, in her grotesque bonnet, and watched the son of the Umbrian
saint--the friar who walks among the Giotto frescoes at Assisi and between the cypresses of
Bello Sguardo, and has paced the centuries continually since the coming of the friars.  One
might have asked of her the kindness of a fellow-feeling.  She and he alike were so habited
as to show the world that their life was aloof from its "idle business."  By some such phrase,
at least, the friar would assuredly have attempted to include her in any spiritual honours
ascribed to him.  Or one might have asked of her the condescension of forbearance.  "Only fancy,"
said the Salvation Army girl, watching the friar out of sight, "only fancy making such a fool
of one's self!"

The great hood of the friars, which is drawn over the head in Zurbaran's ecstatic picture,
is turned to use when the friars are busy.  As a pocket it relieves the over-burdened hands.
A bottle of the local white wine made by the brotherhood at Genoa, and sent to this house by
the West, is carried in the cowl as a present to the stranger at the gates.  The friars tell
how a brother resolved, at Shrovetide, to make pancakes, and not only to make, but also to
toss them.  Those who chanced to be in the room stood prudently aside, and the brother tossed
boldly.  But that was the last that was seen of his handiwork.  Victor Hugo sings in La Legende
des Siecles of disappearance as the thing which no creature is able to achieve: here the impossibility
seemed to be accomplished by quite an ordinary and a simple pancake.  It was clean gone, and
there was an end of it.  Nor could any explanation of this ceasing of a pancake from the midst
of the visible world be so much as divined by the spectators.  It was only when the brother,
in church, knelt down to meditate and drew his cowl about his head that the accident was explained.

Every midnight the sweet contralto bells call the community, who get up gaily to this difficult
service.  Of all duties this one never grows easy or familiar, and therefore never habitual.
It is something to have found but one act aloof from habit.  It is not merely that the friars
overcome the habit of sleep.  The subtler point is that they can never acquire the habit of
sacrificing sleep.  What art, what literature, or what life but would gain a secret security
by such a point of perpetual freshness and perpetual initiative?  It is not possible to get
up at midnight without a will that is new night by night.  So should the writer's work be done,
and, with an intention perpetually unique, the poet's.

The contralto bells have taught these Western hills the "Angelus" of the French fields, and
the hour of night--l'ora di notte--which rings with so melancholy a note from the village belfries
on the Adriatic littoral, when the latest light is passing.  It is the prayer for the dead:
"Out of the depths have I cried unto Thee, O Lord."

The little flocks of novices, on paschal evenings, are folded to the sound of that evening
prayer.  The care of them is the central work of the monastery, which is placed in so remote
a country because it is principally a place of studies.  So much elect intellect and strength
of heart withdrawn from the traffic of the world!  True, the friars are not doing the task
which Carlyle set mankind as a refuge from despair.  These "bearded counsellors of God" keep
their cells, read, study, suffer, sing, hold silence; whereas they might be "operating"--beautiful
word!--upon the Stock Exchange, or painting Academy pictures, or making speeches, or reluctantly
jostling other men for places.  They might be among the involuntary busybodies who are living
by futile tasks the need whereof is a discouraged fiction.  There is absolutely no limit to
the superfluous activities, to the art, to the literature, implicitly renounced by the dwellers
within such walls as these.  The output--again a beautiful word--of the age is lessened by
this abstention.  None the less hopes the stranger and pilgrim to pause and knock once again
upon those monastery gates.

RUSHES AND REEDS

Taller than the grass and lower than the trees, there is another growth that feels the implicit
spring.  It had been more abandoned to winter than even the short grass shuddering under a
wave of east wind, more than the dumb trees.  For the multitudes of sedges, rushes, canes,
and reeds were the appropriate lyre of the cold.  On them the nimble winds played their dry
music.  They were part of the winter.  It looked through them and spoke through them.  They
were spears and javelins in array to the sound of the drums of the north.

The winter takes fuller possession of these things than of those that stand solid.  The sedges
whistle his tune.  They let the colour of his light look through--low-flying arrows and bright
bayonets of winter day.

The multitudes of all reeds and rushes grow out of bounds.  They belong to the margins of lands,
the space between the farms and the river, beyond the pastures, and where the marsh in flower
becomes perilous footing for the cattle.  They are the fringe of the low lands, the sign of
streams.  They grow tall between you and the near horizon of flat lands.  They etch their sharp
lines upon the sky; and near them grow flowers of stature, including the lofty yellow lily.

Our green country is the better for the grey, soft, cloudy darkness of the sedge, and our full
landscape is the better for the distinction of its points, its needles, and its resolute right
lines.

Ours is a summer full of voices, and therefore it does not so need the sound of rushes; but
they are most sensitive to the stealthy breezes, and betray the passing of a wind that even
the tree-tops knew not of. Sometimes it is a breeze unfelt, but the stiff sedges whisper it
along a mile of marsh.  To the strong wind they bend, showing the silver of their sombre little
tassels as fish show the silver of their sides turning in the pathless sea.  They are unanimous.
A field of tall flowers tosses many ways in one warm gale, like the many lovers of a poet who
have a thousand reasons for their love; but the rushes, more strongly tethered, are swept into
a single attitude, again and again, at every renewal of the storm.

Between the pasture and the wave, the many miles of rushes and reeds in England seem to escape
that insistent ownership which has so changed (except for a few forests and downs) the aspect
of England, and has in fact made the landscape.  Cultivation makes the landscape elsewhere,
rather than ownership, for the boundaries in the south are not conspicuous; but here it is
ownership.  But the rushes are a gipsy people, amongst us, yet out of reach.  The landowner,
if he is rather a gross man, believes these races of reeds are his.  But if he is a man of
sensibility, depend upon it he has his interior doubts.  His property, he says, goes right
down to the centre of the earth, in the shape of a wedge; how high up it goes into the air
it would be difficult to say, and obviously the shape of the wedge must be continued in the
direction of increase.  We may therefore proclaim his right to the clouds and their cargo.
It is true that as his ground game is apt to go upon his neighbour's land to be shot, so the
clouds may now and then spend his showers elsewhere.  But the great thing is the view.  A well-appointed
country-house sees nothing out of the windows that is not its own.  But he who tells you so,
and proves it to you by his own view, is certainly disturbed by an unspoken doubt, if his otherwise
contented eyes should happen to be caught by a region of rushes.  The water is his--he had
the pond made; or the river, for a space, and the fish, for a time.  But the bulrushes, the
reeds!  One wonders whether a very thorough landowner, but a sensitive one, ever resolved that
he would endure this sort of thing no longer, and went out armed and had a long acre of sedges
scythed to death.

They are probably outlaws.  They are dwellers upon thresholds and upon margins, as the gipsies
make a home upon the green edges of a road.  No wild flowers, however wild, are rebels.  The
copses and their primroses are good subjects, the oaks are loyal.  Now and then, though, one
has a kind of suspicion of some of the other kinds of trees--the Corot trees. Standing at a
distance from the more ornamental trees, from those of fuller foliage, and from all the indeciduous
shrubs and the conifers (manifest property, every one), two or three translucent aspens, with
which the very sun and the breath of earth are entangled, have sometimes seemed to wear a certain
look--an extra-territorial look, let us call it. They are suspect.  One is inclined to shake
a doubtful head at them.

And the landowner feels it.  He knows quite well, though he may not say so, that the Corot
trees, though they do not dwell upon margins, are in spirit almost as extraterritorial as the
rushes.  In proof of this he very often cuts them down, out of the view, once for all.  The
view is better, as a view, without them.  Though their roots are in his ground right enough,
there is a something about their heads--.  But the reason he gives for wishing them away is
merely that they are "thin."  A man does not always say everything.

ELEONORA DUSE

The Italian woman is very near to Nature; so is true drama.

Acting is not to be judged like some other of the arts, and praised for a "noble convention."
Painting, indeed, is not praised amiss with that word; painting is obviously an art that exists
by its convention--the convention is the art.  But far otherwise is it with the art of acting,
where there is no representative material; where, that is, the man is his own material, and
there is nothing between.  With the actor the style is the man, in another, a more immediate,
and a more obvious sense than was ever intended by that saying.  Therefore we may allow the
critic--and not accuse him of reaction--to speak of the division between art and Nature in
the painting of a landscape, but we cannot let him say the same things of acting.  Acting has
a technique, but no convention.

Once for all, then, to say that acting reaches the point of Nature, and touches it quick, is
to say all.  In other arts imitation is more or less fatuous, illusion more or less vulgar.
But acting is, at its less good, imitation; at its best, illusion; at its worst, and when it
ceases to be an art, convention.

But the idea that acting is conventional has inevitably come about in England.  For it is,
in fact, obliged, with us, to defeat and destroy itself by taking a very full, entire, tedious,
and impotent convention; a complete body of convention; a convention of demonstrativeness--of
voice and manners intended to be expressive, and, in particular, a whole weak and unimpulsive
convention of gesture.  The English manners of real life are so negative and still as to present
no visible or audible drama; and drama is for hearing and for vision.  Therefore our acting
(granting that we have any acting, which is granting much) has to create its little different
and complementary world, and to make the division of "art" from Nature--the division which,
in this one art, is fatal.

This is one simple and sufficient reason why we have no considerable acting; though we may
have more or less interesting and energetic or graceful conventions that pass for art.  But
any student of international character knows well enough that there are also supplementary
reasons of weight.  For example, it is bad to make a conventional world of the stage, but it
is doubly bad to make it badly--which, it must be granted, we do.  When we are anything of
the kind, we are intellectual rather than intelligent; whereas outward-streaming intelligence
makes the actor.  We are pre-occupied, and therefore never single, never wholly possessed by
the one thing at a time; and so forth.

On the other hand, Italians are expressive.  They are so possessed by the one thing at a time
as never to be habitual in any lifeless sense.  They have no habits to overcome by something
arbitrary and intentional. Accordingly, you will find in the open-air theatre of many an Italian
province, away from the high roads, an art of drama that our capital cannot show, so high is
it, so fine, so simple, so complete, so direct, so momentary and impassioned, so full of singleness
and of multitudinous impulses of passion.

Signora Duse is not different in kind from these unrenowned.  What they are, she is in a greater
degree.  She goes yet further, and yet closer. She has an exceptionally large and liberal intelligence.
If lesser actors give themselves entirely to the part, and to the large moment of the part,
she, giving herself, has more to give.

Add to this nature of hers that she stages herself and her acting with singular knowledge and
ease, and has her technique so thoroughly as to be able to forget it--for this is the one only
thing that is the better for habit, and ought to be habitual.  There is but one passage of
her mere technique in which she fails so to slight it.  It is in the long exchange of stove-side
talk between Nora and the other woman of "The Doll's House."  Signora Duse may have felt some
misgivings as to the effect of a dialogue having so little symmetry, such half-hearted feeling,
and, in a word, so little visible or audible drama as this.  Needless to say, the misgiving
is not apparent; what is too apparent is simply the technique. For instance, she shifts her
position with evident system and notable skill.  The whole conversation becomes a dance of
change and counterchange of place.

Nowhere else does the perfect technical habit lapse, and nowhere at all does the habit of acting
exist with her.

I have spoken of this actress's nationality and of her womanhood together.  They are inseparable.
Nature is the only authentic art of the stage, and the Italian woman is natural: none other
so natural and so justified by her nature as Eleonora Duse; but all, as far as their nature
goes, natural.  Moreover, they are women freer than other Europeans from the minor vanities.
Has any one yet fully understood how her liberty in this respect gives to the art of Signora
Duse room and action?  Her countrywomen have no anxious vanities, because, for one reason,
they are generally "sculpturesque," and are very little altered by mere accidents of dress
or arrangement.  Such as they are, they are so once for all; whereas, the turn of a curl makes
all the difference with women of less grave physique.  Italians are not uneasy.

Signora Duse has this immunity, but she has a far nobler deliverance from vanities, in her
own peculiar distance and dignity.  She lets her beautiful voice speak, unwatched and unchecked,
from the very life of the moment.  It runs up into the high notes of indifference, or, higher
still, into those of ennui, as in the earlier scenes of Divorcons; or it grows sweet as summer
with joy, or cracks and breaks outright, out of all music, and out of all control.  Passion
breaks it so for her.

As for her inarticulate sounds, which are the more intimate and the truer words of her meaning,
they, too, are Italian and natural.  English women, for instance, do not make them.  They are
sounds a bouche fermee, at once private and irrepressible.  They are not demonstrations intended
for the ears of others; they are her own.  Other actresses, even English, and even American,
know how to make inarticulate cries, with open mouth; Signora Duse's noise is not a cry; it
is her very thought audible--the thought of the woman she is playing, who does not at every
moment give exact words to her thought, but does give it significant sound.

When la femme de Claude is trapped by the man who has come in search of the husband's secret,
and when she is obliged to sit and listen to her own evil history as he tells it her, she does
not interrupt the telling with the outcries that might be imagined by a lesser actress, she
accompanies it.  Her lips are close, but her throat is vocal.  None who heard it can forget
the speech-within-speech of one of these comprehensive noises.  It was when the man spoke,
for her further confusion, of the slavery to which she had reduced her lovers; she followed
him, aloof, with a twang of triumph.

If Parisians say, as they do, that she makes a bad Parisienne, it is because she can be too
nearly a woman untamed.  They have accused her of lack of elegance--in that supper scene of
La Dame aux Camelias, for instance; taking for ill-breeding, in her Marguerite, that which
is Italian merely and simple.  Whether, again, Cyprienne, in Divorcons, can at all be considered
a lady may be a question; but this is quite unquestionable--that she is rather more a lady,
and not less, when Signora Duse makes her a savage.  But really the result is not at all Parisian.

It seems possible that the French sense does not well distinguish, and has no fine perception
of that affinity with the peasant which remains with the great ladies of the old civilisation
of Italy, and has so long disappeared from those of the younger civilisations of France and
England--a paradox.  The peasant's gravity, directness, and carelessness--a kind of uncouthness
which is neither graceless nor, in any intolerable English sense, vulgar--are to be found in
the unceremonious moments of every cisalpine woman, however elect her birth and select her
conditions.  In Italy the lady is not a creature described by negatives, as an author who is
always right has defined the lady to be in England.  Even in France she is not that, and between
the Frenchwoman and the Italian there are the Alps.  In a word, the educated Italian mondaine
is, in the sense (also untranslatable) of singular, insular, and absolutely British usage,
a Native.  None the less would she be surprised to find herself accused of a lack of dignity.

As to intelligence--a little intelligence is sufficiently dramatic, if it is single.  A child
doing one thing at a time and doing it completely, produces to the eye a better impression
of mental life than one receives from--well, from a lecturer.

DONKEY RACES

English acting had for some time past still been making a feint of running the race that wins.
The retort, the interruption, the call, the reply, the surprise, had yet kept a spoilt tradition
of suddenness and life.  You had, indeed, to wait for an interruption in dialogue--it is true
you had to wait for it; so had the interrupted speaker on the stage. But when the interruption
came, it had still a false air of vivacity; and the waiting of the interrupted one was so ill
done, with so roving an eye and such an arrest and failure of convention, such a confession
of a blank, as to prove that there remained a kind of reluctant and inexpert sense of movement. It
must be accomplished, however, or else there will be danger all the
time that the commander-in-chief will act as he would not act if he
had all the information that the department had.

This suggests at once that the proper office of the department is merely to give the commander-in-chief
information and let him act on his own judgment. True in a measure; but the commander-in-chief
must be given some instructions, even if they be general, for the reason that the commander-in-chief
is merely an instrument for enforcing a certain policy. Clearly, he must know what the policy
is, what the department desires; and the mere statement of the department's desires is of itself
an order. If it is admitted that the commander-in-chief is to carry out the orders of the
department, it remains merely to decide in how great detail those
orders ought to be.

No general answer can be given to the question: "In what detail shall the orders be?" The general
statement can be made, however, that the instructions should be confined as closely as practicable
to a statement of the department's desires, and that this statement
should be as clear as possible.

If, for instance, the only desire of the department is that the enemy's fleet shall be defeated,
no amplification of this statement is required. But if the department should desire, for reasons
best known to itself, that the enemy should be defeated by the use of a certain method, then
that should be stated also. Maybe it would not be wise for the department to state the method
the employment of which is desired; maybe the commander-in-chief would be the best judge of
the method to be employed. But maybe circumstances of governmental policy dictate the employment
of a certain method, even if militarily it is not the best; and maybe also the department
might prefer that method by reason of information recently received,
which it does not have time to communicate in full.

Now, if it is desirable for the department to give the commander-in-chief instructions, running
the risk of invading his "area of discretion," and of doing other disadvantageous things,
it is obvious that the department should be thoroughly equipped for doing it successfully.
This means that the department should be provided not only with the most efficient radio apparatus
that can be secured, manned, of course, by the most skilful operators, but also with a body of
officers capable of handling that particular part of the Navy Department's
work which is the concentrated essence of all its work, the actual
handling of the naval forces.

The usual name given to such a body of officers is "General Staff."

Such bodies of officers have been developed in navies in recent years, by a desire to take advantage
of electrical appliances which greatly increase the accuracy and rapidity of communication
over long distances. In days not long ago, before communication by radio was developed, commanders
on the spot were in possession of much more information about events in their vicinity, compared
with the Navy Department, than they are now; and the difficulties and uncertainties of communication
made it necessary to leave much more to their discretion and initiative.

The President of the United States can now by telephone talk to the commander-in-chief, when he is in
home waters, and every day sees some improvement in this line. This facility of communication
carries with it, of course, the danger of "interfering," one of the most frequent causes of
trouble in the past, in conducting the operations of both armies and fleets-- a danger very
real, very insidious, and very important.

The very ease with which interference can be made, the trained instinct of the subordinate to
follow the wishes of his superior if he can, the temptation to the superior to wield personally
some military power and get some military glory, conspire to bring about interference. This
is only an illustration, however, of the well-known fact that every power can be used for evil
as well as for good, and is not a valid argument against developing
to the utmost the communication between the department and the fleet.

It is, however, a very valid argument against developing it unless there be developed simultaneously
some means like a "safety device" for preventing or at least discouraging
its misuse.

The means devised is the General Staff; and in some countries like Germany it seems to work
so well that (unless our information is incorrect) the Emperor himself
does not interfere.

He gives the machine a certain problem to work out, and he accepts the answer as the answer
which has a greater probability of being correct than any answer
he could get by other means.

Training
of the Staff.-- Now, if there is to be at the Navy Department a body of men who will work out
and recommend what instructions should be given to the commander-in-chief, it seems obvious that
that body of men should be thoroughly trained. In the German army the training of men to do this
work (General Staff work) is given only to officers specially selected. Certain young officers
who promise well are sent to the war college. Those who show aptitude and industry are then put
tentatively into the General Staff. Those who show marked fitness in their tentative employment
are then put into the General Staff, which is as truly a special corps as is our construction
corps. How closely this system is followed with the General Staff in the German navy, the present
writer does not know exactly; but his information is that the system in the navy is copied
(though with certain modifications) after the system in the army.

How can the General Staff at the Navy Department be trained? In the same way as that in which
officers at the war college are trained: by study and by solving war problems by tactical
and strategical games. The training would naturally be more extended, as it would be a postgraduate
course.

There is a difference to be noted between games like war games in which the mental powers are
trained, and games like billiards, in which the nerves and muscles receive practically all
the training; and the difference refers mainly to the memory. Games of cards are a little like
war games; and many books on games of cards have been written, expounding the principles on
which they rest and giving rules to follow. These books may be said
to embody a science of card-playing.

No
such book on naval strategy has appeared; and the obvious reason is that only a few rules of
naval strategy have been formulated.

Staff training, therefore, cannot be given wholly by studying books; but possibly the scheme suggested
to the department by the writer, when he was Aid for Operations, may be developed into a sort
of illustrative literature, which can assist the memory.

By this scheme, a body of officers at the Navy Department would occupy
their time wholly in studying war problems by devising and playing
strategical and tactical games ashore and afloat.

After each problem had been solved to the satisfaction of the staff, each distinctive situation in the
approved solution would be photographed in as small a space as practicable, preferably on
a moving-picture film. In the solution of problem 99; for instance, there might be 50 situations
and therefore 50 photographs.

These photographs, shown in appropriate succession, would furnish information analogous to the information
imparted to a chess student by the statement of the successive moves in those games of chess
that one sees sometimes in books on chess and in newspapers. Now if the film photographs were
so arranged that the moves in the approved solution of, say, problem
99 could be thrown on a screen, as slowly and as quickly as desired,
and if the film records of a few hundred such games could be conveniently
arranged, a very wide range of situations that would probably come
up in war would be portrayed; and the moves made in handling those
situations would form valuable precedents for action, whenever situations
approximating them should come up in war.

It must be borne in mind that in actual life, our only real guide
to wise action in any contingency that may arise is a memory, more
or less consciously realized, of how a similar contingency has been
met, successfully or unsuccessfully, in the past.

Perhaps most of us do not realize that it is not so much experience that guides us as our memory
of experiences. Therefore in the training of both officers and enlisted men in strategy, tactics,
seamanship, gunnery, engineering, and the rest, the memory of how they, or some one else, did
this well and that badly (even if the memory be hardly conscious) is the immediate agency for
bringing about improvement.

Imagine now a strategical system of training for the navy, in which a body of highly trained
officers at the department will continuously regulate the exercises of the fleet, guided by
the revelations of the Kriegspiel: the commander-in-chief will direct the activities of the main divisions
of the fleet, carrying out the department's scheme; the commander
of each division will regulate the activities of the units of his
command in accordance with the fleet scheme; the officer in command
of each unit of each division will regulate the activities of each
unit in his ship, destroyer, submarine, or other craft in accordance
with the division scheme; and every suborganization, in every ship,
destroyer, or other craft will regulate likewise the activities of
its members; so that the navy will resemble a vast and efficient organism,
all the parts leagued together by a common understanding and a common
purpose; mutually dependent, mutually assisting, sympathetically obedient
to the controlling mind that directs them toward the "end in view."

It must be obvious, however, that in order that the navy shall be like an organism, its brain
(the General Staff) must not be a thing apart, but must be of it, and bound to every part
by ties of sympathy and understanding.

It would be possible to have a staff excellent in many ways, and yet so out of touch with the
fleet and its practical requirements that co-ordination between the two would not exist. Analogous
conditions are sometimes seen in people suffering from a certain class of nervous ailments; the
mind seems unimpaired, but co-ordination between the brain and certain muscles is almost wholly
lacking.

To prevent such a condition, therefore, the staff must be kept in touch with the fleet; and
it must also permit the fleet to keep in touch with the staff, by
arranging that, accompanying the system of training, there shall be
a system of education which will insure that the general plan will
be understood throughout the fleet; and that the means undertaken
to execute it will be made sufficiently clear to enable each person
to receive the assistance of his own intelligence.

No man can do his best work in the dark. Darkness is of itself depressing; while light, if not
too intense, stimulates the activities of every living thing.

This does not mean that every mess attendant in the fleet should be put into possession of
the war plans of the commander-in-chief, that he should be given any more information than he
can assimilate and digest, or than he needs, to do his work the best. Just how much information
to impart, and just how much to withhold are quantitative questions, which can be decided
wisely by only those persons who know what their quantitative values are. This is an important
matter, and should be dealt with as such by the staff itself.

To get the maximum work out of every man is the aim of training; to get the maximum work that shall be
effective in attaining the end in view, training must be directed by strategy, because strategy
alone has a clear knowledge of what is the end in view.

Stimuli.-- Some men are so slothful that exertion of any kind is abhorrent to them; but these
men are few, and are very few indeed among a lot of healthy and normal men such as fill a navy.
An office boy, lazy beyond belief in the work he is engaged to do, will go through the most
violent exertions at a baseball game; and a darky who prefers a soft resting-place in the
shade of an umbrageous tree to laboring in the fields will be stirred to wild enthusiasm by a game
of "craps."

Now why are the office boy and the darky stimulated by these games? By the elements of competition,
chance, and possible danger they bring out and the excitement thereby engendered. Training,
therefore introduces these elements into drills as much as it can.

Competition alone does not suffice, otherwise all men would play chess; competition and chance
combined are not enough, or gentlemen would not need the danger of
losing money to make card games interesting; but any game that brings
in all three elements will rouse the utmost interest and activity
of which a man is capable.

Games involving these three elements are known by many names; one
name is "poker," another name is "business," and another name is
"politics."

There are many other games besides, but the greatest of all is strategy.

Now in the endeavor to prepare a fleet by training, no lack of means for exciting interest will
be found; in fact no other training offers so many and so great a variety of means for introducing
the elements of competition, chance, and danger. The problem is how
best to employ them.

To do this successfully, it must be realized, of course, that the greatest single factor in
exciting interest is the personal factor, since comparatively few men can get much interested
in a matter that is impersonal; a boy is more interested in watching a baseball game in which he
knows some of the players than in watching a game between teams neither of which he has ever
seen; and the men in any ship are more interested in the competition between their ship and some
other than between any other two; feeling that esprit de corps by reason of which every individual
in every organization personifies the organization as a living thing
of which he himself is part.

   Strategic Problems.-- The training of the fleet, then, can best be
done under the direction of a trained staff, that staff generously
employing all the resources of competition, chance, and danger.

The obvious way to do this is to give out to the fleet for solution a continual succession of strategic
problems, which the entire fleet will be engaged in solving, and which will be the starting-point
for all the drills of the fleet and in the fleet. (Some officers prefer the word "maneuver"
to "problem.") The arranging of a continual series of war problems,
or maneuvers to be worked out in the fleet by "games," will call for
an amount of strategical skill second only to the skill needed for
operations in war, will deal with similar factors and be founded on
similar principles.

Naturally, the war problems, before being sent to the fleet for solving, would be solved first
by the staff, using strategical and tactical games, and other appropriate
means; and inasmuch as the scheme of education and training is for
the benefit of the staff itself, as well as for the benefit of the
fleet, certain members of the staff would go out with the fleet to
note in what ways, each problem sent down was defective, in what ways
good-- and in what ways it could be modified with benefit.

The successive situations and solutions, made first by the staff and subsequently by the fleet,
can then be photographed and made part of the history of war problems, for the library of the
staff. In laying out the war problems, the staff will be guided naturally by the ends in view--
first to work out solutions of strategic, logistic, and tactical situations in future wars, and second
to give opportunity to the various divisions, ships, turret crews, engineers'forces, etc., for drills
that will train them to meet probable contingencies in future wars. This double end will not be
so difficult of attainment as might at first sight seem, for the reason
that the solution of any problem which represents a situation actually
probable will automatically provide all the minor situations necessary
to drill the various bodies; and the more inherently probable a situation
is, the more probable will be the situations in which the various
flag-officers, captains, quartermasters, engineers'forces, turret
crews, etc., will find themselves.

Of course, the prime difficulty in devising realistic problems is the fact that in war our whole
fleet would be employed together against an enemy fleet; and as the staff
cannot supply an enemy fleet, it must either imagine an enemy fleet, divert
a small part of our fleet to represent an enemy fleet, or else divide
our fleet into two approximately equal parts, one "red," and one
"blue."

First Scheme.-- The first scheme has its usefulness in working out the actual handling of the fleet
as a whole; and considering the purposes of strategy only, is the most important, though, of course,
"contacts" with the enemy cannot be simulated. From the standpoint of fleet tactical drill, and
the standpoint of that part of strategy which arranges for handling
large tactical situations with success, it is useful, since it provides
for the tactical handling of the entire fleet.

This certainly is important; for if the personnel are to be so trained that the actual fleet
shall be handled with maximum effectiveness in battle, training in
handling that actual fleet must frequently be had; the fleet is a
machine, and no machine is complete if any of its parts is lacking. It
may be objected that it is not necessary for the staff at the department
to devise such training, because drills of the entire fleet can be
devised and carried out by the commander-in-chief; in fact that that
is what he is for.

This, of course, is partly true; and it is not the idea of the author that the staff in the department
should interfere with any scheme of drills that the commander-in-chief desires to devise and
carry out; but it is his idea that the staff should arrange problems to be worked out by the fleet,
in which the tactical handling of the fleet should be subordinate to, and carried out for, a strategic
purpose. A very simple drill would be the mere transfer of the fleet to a distant point, when
in supposititious danger from an enemy, employing by day and night the
scouting and screening operations that such a trip would demand.
Another drill would be the massing of previously separated forces
at a given place and time; still another would be the despatching
of certain parts of the fleet to certain points at certain times.

The problems need not be quite so simple as these, however; for they can include all the operations
of a fleet under its commander-in-chief up to actual contact; the
commander-in-chief being given only such information as the approximate
position, speed, and course of the enemy at a given time, with orders
to intercept him with his whole force; or he may be given information
that the enemy has divided his force, that certain parts were at certain
places going in certain directions at certain speeds at certain times,
and he may be directed to intercept those supposititious parts; that
is, to get such parts of his fleet as he may think best to certain
places at certain times.

Of the strategic value to the staff of the practical solutions of this class of problems by the fleet,
there can be little question; and the records made if kept up to date, would give data in future wars
for future staffs, of what the whole fleet, and parts of it acting with the fleet, can reasonably
be expected to accomplish, especially from the standpoint of logistics. And it has the advantage
of dealing with only one thing; the actual handling of the actual
fleet, uncomplicated by other matters, such as interference by an
enemy.

For the reason, however, that it leaves out of consideration the effects of scouting and of contacts with
the enemy, it is incomplete. Second Scheme.-- To remedy this incompleteness, resort may be
had to the device of detaching a few vessels from the fleet and making each represent a force of
the enemy; one destroyer, for instance, to represent a division, four destroyers four divisions, etc.
This scheme has the advantage that all the capital ships can be handled together, and that, say
three-quarters of the destroyers can be handled without much artificiality on the assumption that
four-fourths are so handled; while for merely strategic purposes four destroyers,
properly separated, can represent four divisions of destroyers very truthfully.
This scheme is useful not only strategically but tactically; for the
reasons that the contacts made are actual and visible, and that all the
personnel on each side are put to doing things much like those they would
do in war. The scheme is extremely flexible besides; for the number
of ways in which the fleet can be divided is very great, and the number
of operations that can be simulated with considerable accuracy is
therefore very great also.

The training given to the personnel of the fleet is obviously more varied, interesting, and valuable,
than in the first scheme; and the records of the solutions (games played) will form instructive
documents in the offices of the staff, concerning situations which the first scheme could not bring out.
These records, naturally, will not be so simple as those under the first scheme, because many factors
will enter in, some of which will bring up debatable points. For when actual contact occurs, but only "constructive"
hits by torpedo and gun are made, much room for difference of opinion will occur, and many decisions
will be disputed.

To decide disputed questions must, of course, rest with the staff;
but those questions must be decided, and if correct deductions from
the games are to be made, the decisions must be correct. To achieve correctness
in decision the members of the staff must be highly trained. To devise
and develop a good scheme of staff training, several years may be
required. Third Scheme.-- The third kind of game is that in which
the fleet is divided into two parts, fairly equal in each of the various
elements, battleships, battle cruisers, destroyers, submarines, aircraft,
etc. This scheme gives opportunity for more realistic situations
than the other two, since each side operates and sees vessels and
formations similar to those that it would operate and see in war;
and it gives opportunity for games which combine both strategical
and tactical operations and situations to a greater degree than do
the other two schemes.

Its only weakness is the fact that the entire fleet is not operated
as a unit; not even a large fraction, but only about one-half. Like
each of the other two schemes, however, it has its distinctive field of
usefulness.

Its main advantage is its realism-- the fact that two powerful naval forces, each composed of all
the elements of a naval force, seek each other out; or else one evades and the other seeks;
and then finally they fight a fairly realistic battle; or else one successfully evades the
other; or else minor actions occur between detachments, and no major result occurs; just as happens
in war. Strategically, this scheme is less valuable than the other
two; tactically, more so. For the experience and the records of the
staff this scheme is less valuable than the other two, but for the
training of the fleet it is more so.

Of course, the division of games for staff and fleet training into
three general schemes is arbitrary, and not wholly correct; for no such
division really exists, and in practice it would not be observed.

The thought of the writer is merely to point out that, in a general way, the schemes may be divided
into three classes, and to show the convenience of doing so-- or
at least of recognizing that there are three general kinds of games,
and that each kind has its advantages and likewise its disadvantages.

In our navy, only three strategic problems or maneuvers, devised at the department, have been worked out
at sea-- one in May, and one in October, 1915, and one in August, 1916: all belonged in the
second category. They were devised by the General Board and the War College, as we had no
staff.

The solving of the problems by the commander-in-chief aroused the greatest
interest not only in the fleet, but in the Navy Department, in fact,
throughout the entire navy, and to a surprising degree throughout the
country, especially among the people on the Atlantic coast.  Moreover, the Japanese
evade symmetry, in the unit of their repeating patterns, by another simple device--that of
numbers.  They make a small difference in the number of curves and of lines.  A great difference
would not make the same effect of variety; it would look too much like a contrast.  For example,
three rods on one side and six on another would be something else than a mere variation, and
variety would be lost by the use of them.  The Japanese decorator will vary three in this place
by two in that, and a sense of the defeat of symmetry is immediately produced.  With more violent
means the idea of symmetry would have been neither suggested nor refuted.

Leaving mere repeating patterns and diaper designs, you find, in Japanese compositions, complete
designs in which there is no point of symmetry.  It is a balance of suspension and of antithesis.
There is no sense of lack of equilibrium, because place is, most subtly, made to have the effect
of giving or of subtracting value.  A small thing is arranged to reply to a large one, for
the small thing is placed at the precise distance that makes it a (Japanese) equivalent.  In
Italy (and perhaps in other countries) the scales commonly in use are furnished with only a
single weight that increases or diminishes in value according as you slide it nearer or farther
upon a horizontal arm.  It is equivalent to so many ounces when it is close to the upright,
and to so many pounds when it hangs from the farther end of the horizontal rod.  Distance plays
some such part with the twig or the bird in the upper corner of a Japanese composition.  Its
place is its significance and its value.  Such an art of position implies a great art of intervals.
The Japanese chooses a few things and leaves the space between them free, as free as the pauses
or silences in music.  But as time, not silence, is the subject, or material, of contrast in
musical pauses, so it is the measurement of space--that is, collocation--that makes the value
of empty intervals.  The space between this form and that, in a Japanese composition, is valuable
because it is just so wide and no more.  And this, again, is only another way of saying that
position is the principle of this apparently wilful art.

Moreover, the alien art of Japan, in its pictorial form, has helped to justify the more stenographic
school of etching.  Greatly transcending Japanese expression, the modern etcher has undoubtedly
accepted moral support from the islands of the Japanese.  He too etches a kind of shorthand,
even though his notes appeal much to the spectator's knowledge, while the Oriental shorthand
appeals to nothing but the spectator's simple vision.  Thus the two artists work in ways dissimilar.
Nevertheless, the French etcher would never have written his signs so freely had not the Japanese
so freely drawn his own.  Furthermore still, the transitory and destructible material of Japanese
art has done as much as the multiplication of newspapers, and the discovery of processes, to
reconcile the European designer--the black and white artist--to working for the day, the day
of publication.  Japan lives much of its daily life by means of paper, painted; so does Europe
by means of paper, printed. But as we, unlike those Orientals, are a destructive people, paper
with us means short life, quick abolition, transformation, re-appearance, a very circulation
of life.  This is our present way of surviving ourselves--the new version of that feat of life.
Time was when to survive yourself meant to secure, for a time indefinitely longer than the
life of man, such dull form as you had given to your work; to intrude upon posterity.  To survive
yourself, to-day, is to let your work go into daily oblivion. 

The devil rebelled because he could not brook subjection to the Son of God, a failing which
was noble compared with treachery to the Son of man. The hatred of Judas is not altogether
virtuous. We compound thereby for our neglect of Jesus and His precepts: it is easier to establish
our Christianity by cursing the wretched servant than by following his Master. The heinousness
also of the crime in Gethsemane has been aggravated by the exaltation of Jesus to the Redeemership
of the world. All that can be known of Judas is soon collected. He was chosen one of the twelve
apostles, and received their high commission to preach the kingdom of heaven, to heal the sick,
raise the dead, cleanse the lepers, and cast out devils. He was appointed treasurer to the community.
John in telling the story of the anointing at Bethany says that he was a thief, but John also
makes him the sole objector to the waste of the ointment. According to the other evangelists
all the disciples objected. Since he remained in office it could hardly have been known at
the time of the visit to Bethany that he was dishonest, nor could it have been known at any time to
Matthew and Mark, for they would not have lost the opportunity of adding such a touch to the
portrait. The probability, therefore, is that the robbery of the bag is unhistorical. When
the chief priests and scribes sought how they might apprehend Jesus they made a bargain with
Judas to deliver Him to them for thirty pieces of silver. He was present at the Last Supper
but went and betrayed his Lord. A few hours afterwards, when he found out that condemnation
to death followed, he repented himself and brought again the thirty pieces of silver to his employers,
declared that he had sinned in betraying innocent blood, cast down the money at their feet,
and went and hanged himself.

This is all that is discoverable about Judas, and it has been considered sufficient for a damnation
deeper than any allotted to the worst of the sons of Adam. Dante places him in the lowest round
of the ninth or last of the hellish circles, where he is eternally "champed" by Satan, "bruised
as with ponderous engine," his head within the diabolic jaws and "plying the feet without."
In the absence of a biography with details, it is impossible to make out with accuracy what
the real Judas was. We can, however, by dispassionate examination of the facts determine their
sole import, and if we indulge in inferences we can deduce those which are fairly probable. As Judas
was treasurer, he must have been trusted. He could hardly have been naturally covetous, for he had given
up in common with the other disciples much, if not all, to follow Jesus. The thirty pieces of silver-- some
four or five pounds of our money-- could not have been considered by him as a sufficient bribe for
the ignominy of a treason which was to end in legal murder.

He ought perhaps to have been able to measure the ferocity of an established ecclesiastical
order and to have known what would have been the consequence of handing over to it perfect,
and therefore heretical, sincerity and purity, but there is no evidence
that he did know: nay, we are distinctly informed, as we have just
seen, that when he became aware what was going to happen his sorrow
for his wicked deed took a very practical shape.  Their beauty is remote from our
sympathy and admiration; and it is quite possible that we might miss it in pictorial presentation,
and that the Japanese artist may have intended human beauty where we do not recognise it. 
But if it is not easy to recognise, it is certainly not difficult to guess at.  And, accordingly,
you are generally aware that the separate beauty of the race, and its separate dignity, even--to
be very generous--has been admired by the Japanese artist, and is represented here and there
occasionally, in the figure of warrior or mousme.  But even with this exception the habit of
Japanese figure-drawing is evidently grotesque, derisive, and crooked.  It is curious to observe
that the search for slight deformity is so constant as to make use, for its purposes, not of
action only, but of perspective foreshortening.  With us it is to the youngest child only that
there would appear to be mirth in the drawing of a man who, stooping violently forward, would
seem to have his head "beneath his shoulders."  The European child would not see fun in the
living man so presented, but--unused to the same effect "in the flat"--he thinks it prodigiously
humorous in a drawing.  But so only when he is quite young.  The Japanese keeps, apparently,
his sense of this kind of humour.  It amuses him, but not perhaps altogether as it amuses the
child, that the foreshortened figure should, in drawing and to the unpractised eye, seem distorted
and dislocated; the simple Oriental appears to find more derision in it than the simple child.
The distortion is not without a suggestion of ignominy.  And, moreover, the Japanese shows
derision, but not precisely scorn.  He does not hold himself superior to his hideous models.
He makes free with them on equal terms.  He is familiar with them.

And if this is the conviction gathered from ordinary drawings, no need to insist upon the ignoble
character of those that are intentional caricatures.

Perhaps the time has hardly come for writing anew the praises of symmetry.  The world knows
too much of the abuse of Greek decoration, and would be glad to forget it, with the intention
of learning that art afresh in a future age and of seeing it then anew.  But whatever may be
the phases of the arts, there is the abiding principle of symmetry in the body of man, that
goes erect, like an upright soul.  Its balance is equal.  Exterior human symmetry is surely
a curious physiological fact where there is no symmetry interiorly.  For the centres of life
and movement within the body are placed with Oriental inequality.  Man is Greek without and
Japanese within.  But the absolute symmetry of the skeleton and of the beauty and life that
cover it is accurately a principle.  It controls, but not tyrannously, all the life of human
action.  Attitude and motion disturb perpetually, with infinite incidents--inequalities of
work, war, and pastime, inequalities of sleep--the symmetry of man.  Only in death and "at
attention" is that symmetry complete in attitude.  Nevertheless, it rules the dance and the
battle, and its rhythm is not to be destroyed.  All the more because this hand holds the goad
and that the harrow, this the shield and that the sword, because this hand rocks the cradle
and that caresses the unequal heads of children, is this rhythm the law; and grace and strength
are inflections thereof.  All human movement is a variation upon symmetry, and without symmetry
it would not be variation; it would be lawless, fortuitous, and as dull and broadcast as lawless
art.  The order of inflection that is not infraction has been explained in a most authoritative
sentence of criticism of literature, a sentence that should save the world the trouble of some
of its futile, violent, and weak experiments: "Law, the rectitude of humanity," says Mr Coventry
Patmore, "should be the poet's only subject, as, from time immemorial, it has been the subject
of true art, though many a true artist has done the Muse's will and knew it not.  As all the
music of verse arises, not from infraction but from inflection of the law of the set metre;
so the greatest poets have been those the modulus of whose verse has been most variously and
delicately inflected, in correspondence with feelings and passions which are the inflections
of moral law in their theme.  Law puts a strain upon feeling, and feeling responds with a strain
upon law. Furthermore, Aristotle says that the quality of poetic language is a continual slight
novelty.  In the highest poetry, like that of Milton, these three modes of inflection, metrical,
linguistical, and moral, all chime together in praise of the truer order of life."

And like that order is the order of the figure of man, an order most beautiful and most secure
when it is put to the proof.  That perpetual proof by perpetual inflection is the very condition
of life.  Symmetry is a profound, if disregarded because perpetually inflected, condition of
human life.

The nimble art of Japan is unessential; it may come and go, may settle or be fanned away. 
It has life and it is not without law; it has an obvious life, and a less obvious law.  But
with Greece abides the obvious law and the less obvious life: symmetry as apparent as the symmetry
of the form of man, and life occult like his unequal heart.  And this seems to be the nobler
and the more perdurable relation.

THE ILLUSION OF HISTORIC TIME

He who has survived his childhood intelligently must become conscious of something more than
a change in his sense of the present and in his apprehension of the future.  He must be aware
of no less a thing than the destruction of the past.  Its events and empires stand where they
did, and the mere relation of time is as it was.  But that which has fallen together, has fallen
in, has fallen close, and lies in a little heap, is the past itself--time--the fact of antiquity.

He has grown into a smaller world as he has grown older.  There are no more extremities.  Recorded
time has no more terrors.  The unit of measure which he holds in his hand has become in his
eyes a thing of paltry length.  The discovery draws in the annals of mankind.  He had thought
them to be wide.

For a man has nothing whereby to order and place the floods, the states, the conquests, and
the temples of the past, except only the measure which he holds.  Call that measure a space
of ten years.  His first ten years had given him the illusion of a most august scale and measure.
It was then that he conceived Antiquity.  But now!  Is it to a decade of ten such little years
as these now in his hand--ten of his mature years--that men give the dignity of a century?
They call it an age; but what if life shows now so small that the word age has lost its gravity?

In fact, when a child begins to know that there is a past, he has a most noble rod to measure
it by--he has his own ten years.  He attributes an overwhelming majesty to all recorded time.
He confers distance.  He, and he alone, bestows mystery.  Remoteness is his.  He creates more
than mortal centuries.  He sends armies fighting into the extremities of the past.  He assigns
the Parthenon to a hill of ages, and the temples of Upper Egypt to sidereal time.

If there were no child, there would be nothing old. (vol. i. p. 294).

Eckermann expressed his surprise. "Yes," said Goethe, "you may believe me, I have studied him
anew and am confirmed in this opinion." The position which Byron occupies in the Second Part
of "Faust" is well known.

Eckermann talked to Goethe about it, and Goethe said, "I could not make use of any man as the
representative of the modern poetical era except him, who undoubtedly is to be regarded as the
greatest genius of our century" (vol. i. p. 425). Mr. Arnold translates this word "genius"
by "talent." The word in the original is TALENT, and I will not dispute with so accomplished
a German scholar as Mr. Arnold as to what is the precise meaning of TALENT. In both the English
translations of Eckermann the word is rendered "genius," and after the comparison between Byron,
Shakespeare, and the ancients just quoted, we can hardly admit that
Goethe meant to distinguish scientifically between the two orders
of intellect and to assign the lower to Byron.

But, last of all, I will translate Goethe's criticism upon "Cain." So far as I know, it has not yet
appeared in English. It is to be found in the Stuttgart and Tubingen edition of Goethe, 1840,
vol. xxxiii. p. 157.

Some portions which are immaterial I have omitted:-"After
I had listened to the strangest things about this work for almost
a year, I at last took it myself in hand, and it excited in me astonishment
and admiration; an effect which will produce in the mind which is simply
susceptible, everything good, beautiful, and great....  He marvels that he was so deceived.  For it was a very deception.
If the Argonauts, for instance, had been children, it would have been well enough for the child
to measure their remoteness and their acts with his own magnificent measure.  But they were
only men and demi-gods.  Thus they belong to him as he is now--a man; and not to him as he
was once--a child.  It was quite wrong to lay the child's enormous ten years' rule along the
path from our time to theirs; that path must be skipped by the nimble yard in the man's present
possession.  Decidedly the Argonauts are no subject for the boy.

What, then?  Is the record of the race nothing but a bundle of such little times?  Nay, it
seems that childhood, which created the illusion of ages, does actually prove it true.  Childhood
is itself Antiquity--to every man his only Antiquity.  The recollection of childhood cannot
make Abraham old again in the mind of a man of thirty-five; but the beginning of every life
is older than Abraham.  There is the abyss of time.  Let a man turn to his own childhood--no
further--if he would renew his sense of remoteness, and of the mystery of change.

For in childhood change does not go at that mere hasty amble; it rushes; but it has enormous
space for its flight.  The child has an apprehension not only of things far off, but of things
far apart; an illusive apprehension when he is learning "ancient" history--a real apprehension
when he is conning his own immeasurable infancy.  If there is no historical Antiquity worth
speaking of, this is the renewed and unnumbered Antiquity for all mankind.

And it is of this--merely of this--that "ancient" history seems to partake.  Rome was founded
when we began Roman history, and that is why it seems long ago.  Suppose the man of thirty-five
heard, at that present age, for the first time of Romulus.  Why, Romulus would be nowhere.
But he built his wall, as a matter of fact, when every one was seven years old.  It is by good
fortune that "ancient" history is taught in the only ancient days.  So, for a time, the world
is magical.

Modern history does well enough for learning later.  But by learning something of antiquity
in the first ten years, the child enlarges the sense of time for all mankind.  For even after
the great illusion is over and history is re-measured, and all fancy and flight caught back
and chastised, the enlarged sense remains enlarged.  The man remains capable of great spaces
of time.  He will not find them in Egypt, it is true, but he finds them within, he contains
them, he is aware of them.  History has fallen together, but childhood surrounds and encompasses
history, stretches beyond and passes on the road to eternity.

He has not passed in vain through the long ten years, the ten years that are the treasury of
preceptions--the first.  The great disillusion shall never shorten those years, nor set nearer
together the days that made them.  "Far apart," I have said, and that "far apart" is wonderful.
The past of childhood is not single, is not motionless, nor fixed in one point; it has summits
a world away one from the other. "No; reckon I'll wait till maunin', an'clean up a bit furst. How'bout
sum soap an'water fore I eat? an'yer cudn't loan me a razor, cud ye?"

He rubbed his chin reflectively with stubby fingers.

"Wal'I got plenty o'water, an'maybe cud scare up sum soap. Tim yere he's got a razor, an', if
he's a frien'o'yers, I reckon he mought lend it ter yer-- thet's sure sum hell ov a beard yer've got."
The deputy gulped down his drink, and smacked his lips, clinging
with one hand to the bar, regarding me lovingly.

"Sure; he's friend'o'mine. Shave him myself soon's I git sober. Stand most whisky all righ',
but damn if I kin this kind-- only hed three drinks, tha's all---
whut's thet?

Yer can't wait? Oh, all righ'then, take it yerself. Mighty fin'razor, ol'man." Rale found me a
tin basin, water, a bit of rag for a towel, and a small, cracked mirror, in which my reflection
was scarcely recognizable.

He was a man of few words, contenting himself with uttering merely
a dry comment on Kennedy, who had dropped back into a convenient chair,
and buried his face on the table.

"Tim's a damn good fellow, an'I never saw him so blame drunk afore,"
he said, regretfully. "Know'd him et Saint Louee; used ter drop in ter my
place. He an'Kirby hed a row, an'I reckon thet's whut started him
drinkin'." "A row; a quarrel, you mean?" forgetting myself in surprise.
"Who's Kirby?"

"Joe Kirby; yer sure must know
him, if yer a river man. Slim sorter feller, with a smooth face; slickest
gambler ever wus, I reckon."  He has fallen asleep to the sound of them all
his life; and "all his life" means more than older speech can well express.

Ancient custom is formed in a single spacious year.  A child is beset with long traditions.
And his infancy is so old, so old, that the mere adding of years in the life to follow will
not seem to throw it further back--it is already so far.  That is, it looks as remote to the
memory of a man of thirty as to that of a man of seventy.  What are a mere forty years of added
later life in the contemplation of such a distance?  Pshaw!

EYES

There is nothing described with so little attention, with such slovenliness, or so without
verification--albeit with so much confidence and word-painting--as the eyes of the men and
women whose faces have been made memorable by their works.  The describer generally takes the
first colour that seems to him probable.  The grey eyes of Coleridge are recorded in a proverbial
line, and Procter repeats the word, in describing from the life.  Then Carlyle, who shows more
signs of actual attention, and who caught a trick of Coleridge's pronunciation instantly, proving
that with his hearing at least he was not slovenly, says that Coleridge's eyes were brown--"strange,
brown, timid, yet earnest-looking eyes."  A Coleridge with brown eyes is one man, and a Coleridge
with grey eyes another--and, as it were, more responsible.  As to Rossetti's eyes, the various
inattention of his friends has assigned to them, in all the ready-made phrases, nearly all
the colours.

So with Charlotte Bronte.  Matthew Arnold seems to have thought the most probable thing to
be said of her eyes was that they were grey and expressive.  Thus, after seeing them, does
he describe them in one of his letters.  Whereas Mrs Gaskell, who shows signs of attention,
says that Charlotte's eyes were a reddish hazel, made up of "a great variety of tints," to
be discovered by close looking.  Almost all eves that are not brown are, in fact, of some such
mixed colour, generally spotted in, and the effect is vivacious.  All the more if the speckled
iris has a dark ring to enclose it.

Nevertheless, the eye of mixed colour has always a definite character, and the mingling that
looks green is quite unlike the mingling that looks grey; and among the greys there is endless
difference.  Brown eyes alone are apart, unlike all others, but having no variety except in
the degrees of their darkness.

The colour of eyes seems to be significant of temperament, but as regards beauty there is little
or nothing to choose among colours.  It is not the eye, but the eyelid, that is important,
beautiful, eloquent, full of secrets.  The eye has nothing but its colour, and all colours
are fine within fine eyelids.  The eyelid has all the form, all the drawing, all the breadth
and length; the square of great eyes irregularly wide; the long corners of narrow eyes; the
pathetic outward droop; the delicate contrary suggestion of an upward turn at the outer corner,
which Sir Joshua loved.

It is the blood that is eloquent, and there is no sign of blood in the eye; but in the eyelid
the blood hides itself and shows its signs.  All along its edges are the little muscles, living,
that speak not only the obvious and emphatic things, but what reluctances, what perceptions,
what ambiguities, what half-apprehensions, what doubts, what interceptions! The eyelids confess,
and reject, and refuse to reject.  They have expressed all things ever since man was man.

And they express so much by seeming to hide or to reveal that which indeed expresses nothing.
For there is no message from the eye.  It has direction, it moves, in the service of the sense
of sight; it receives the messages of the world. Only one hand is better than that, and it would
be impossible to get such a hand out of one pack.

"" That is exactly true, Haines. I am no card player, but I do know that much about the game. Yet Kirby
took the pot with a straight flush. Now, either he, or Carver, slipped an extra ace into the pack,
or else Beaucaire did. In my opinion the Judge had no chance to work such a trick. And that's the
case, as it stands.

"Haines jumped to his feet and began pacing the dirt floor excitedly, his hands clasped behind
his back."

By God, man! "he cried, pausing suddenly." Even if he
did have a chance, the Judge never did it-- never. He was a good sport,
and always played a straight game. You say he bet everything he had?
"  But such a thing is not to be seen once a year.

Moreover, it is--though so significant--hardly to be called expression. It is not articulate.
It implies emotion, but does not define, or describe, or divide it.  It is touching, insomuch
as we have knowledge of the perturbed tide of the spirit that must cause it, but it is not
otherwise eloquent.  It does not tell us the quality of the thought, it does not inform and
surprise as with intricacies.  It speaks no more explicit or delicate things than does the
pulse in its quickening.  It speaks with less division of meanings than does the taking of
the breath, which has impulses and degrees.

No, the eyes do their work, but do it blankly, without communication. Openings into the being
they may be, but the closed cheek is more communicative.  From them the blood of Perdita never
did look out.  It ebbed and flowed in her face, her dance, her talk.  It was hiding in her
paleness, and cloistered in her reserve, but visible in prison.  It leapt and looked, at a
word.  It was conscious in the fingers that reached out flowers.  It ran with her.  It was
silenced when she hushed her answers to the king.  Everywhere it was close behind the doors--everywhere
but in her eyes. 

In fact, the suggestion has been made repeatedly for several years and is now in process of
development that the various situations in tactical games might advantageously be photographed
on films and afterward projected in rapid succession on a screen.

Think, then, of all the famous eyes in the world, that said so much, and said it in no other
way but only by the little exquisite muscles of their lids.  How were these ever strong enough
to bear the burden of those eyes of Heathcliff's in "Wuthering Heights"?  That mourning fiend,
who had wept all night, had no expression, no proof or sign of himself, except in the edges
of the eyelids of the man.

And the eyes of Garrick?  Eyelids, again.  And the eyes of Charles Dickens, that were said
to contain the life of fifty men?  On the mechanism of the eyelids hung that fifty-fold vitality.
"Bacon had a delicate, lively, hazel eye," says Aubrey in his "Lives of Eminent Persons." He
then crossed over, fell on his knees, and buried his head with passionate sobbing on her knees.
She put her hands on him and her tears fell.

"Five years," at last he said; "I may live five years with care.

She has left me. I will give up everything and go abroad with you. Five years; it is not much,
but it will be something, everything. I shall die with your face over me."
The train was slackening speed for Bristol; she bent down and kissed
him.  And this is the utmost that can possibly have been true
as to the eyes of Burns.  But set within the meanings of impetuous eyelids the lucidity of
the dark eyes seemed broken, moved, directed into fiery shafts.

See, too, the reproach of little, sharp, grey eyes addressed to Hazlitt. There are neither
large nor small eyes, say physiologists, or the difference is so small as to be negligeable.
But in the eyelids the difference is great between large and small, and also between the varieties
of largeness.  Some have large openings, and some are in themselves broad and long, serenely
covering eyes called small.  Some have far more drawing than others, and interesting foreshortenings
and sweeping curves.

Where else is spirit so evident?  And where else is it so spoilt?  There is no vulgarity like
the vulgarity of vulgar eyelids. The crisis is not far off when I trust in God that the Tyrant
will be humbled,& the Scoundrel American Democrats be obliged to go down on their knees to Britain. "[188]
Under him most of the Wisconsin traders of importance received British
commissions.

But all love and all genius have winged their flight from those slight and unmeasurable movements,
have flickered on the margins of lovely eyelids quick with thought.  Life, spirit, sweetness
are there in a small place; using the finest and the slenderest machinery; expressing meanings
a whole world apart, by a difference of material action so fine that the sight which appreciates
it cannot detect it; expressing intricacies of intellect; so incarnate in slender and sensitive
flesh that nowhere else in the body of man is flesh so spiritual.

