'Have you had any tea?' she asked him, giving him her hand, which he pressed mechanically.

'No, thanks,' said Gerald.

'Do have some. You look hungry.'

'I'm not hungry, thanks.' He was neither hostile nor pleading; he only kept his eyes fixed
on her with bright watchfulness, rather as a patient's eyes watch the doctor who is to pronounce
a verdict, and Helen, with all her kindness, felt a little irked and ill at ease before his gaze.

'You've heard from Kane?' Gerald said, after a pause. Helen had taken her usual place in the
low chair.

'Yes, this morning.'

'And that's why you sent for me?'

'Yes,' said Helen, 'he asked me to.'

Gerald looked down into the fire. 'I can't tell you what I think of him. You can't care to
hear, of course. You know what I've done to him, and that must make you feel that I'm not the
person to talk about him. But I've never met any one so good.'

'He is good. I'm glad to hear you say it. He is the best person I've ever met, too,' said Helen.
'As for what you did to him, you didn't know what you were doing.'

'I don't think that stupidity is any excuse. I ought to have felt he couldn't be near you like
that, and not love you. I robbed him of you, didn't I? If it hadn't been for what I did, you
would have married him, all the same--in spite of what you told me, I mean.'

Helen had coloured a little, and after a pause in which she thought over his words she said:
'Yes, of course I would have married him all the same. But it was really I, in what I told
you, who brought it upon myself and upon Franklin.'

For a little while there was silence and then Gerald said, delicately, yet with a directness
that showed he took for granted in her a detached candour equal to his own: 'I think I asked
it stupidly. I suppose the thing I can't even yet realise is that, in a way, I robbed you too.
I've robbed you of everything, haven't I, Helen?'

'Not of everything,' said Helen, glad really of the small consolation she could offer him.
'Not of financial safety, as it happens. It will make you less unhappy to hear, so I must tell
you, Franklin is arranging things with Aunt Grizel so that when she dies I shall come into
quite a nice little bit of money. I shall have no more sordid worries. In that way you mustn't
have me on your conscience.'

Gerald's eyes were on her and they took in this fact of her safety with no commotion; it was
but one--and a lesser--among the many strange facts he had had to take in. And he forced himself
to look squarely at what he had conceived to be the final impossibility as he asked: 'And--in
other ways?--Could you have fallen in love with him, Helen?'

It was so bad, so inconceivably bad a thing to face, that his relief was like a joy when Helen
answered. 'No, I could never have fallen in love with dear Franklin. But I cared for him very
much, the more, no doubt, from having ceased to care about love. I felt that he was the best
person, the truest, the dearest, I had ever known, and that we would make a success of our
life together.'

'Yes, yes, of course,' Gerald hastened past her qualifications to the one liberating fact.
'Two people like you would have had to. But you didn't love him; you couldn't have come to
love him. I haven't robbed you of a man you could have loved.'

She saw his immense relief. The joy of it was in his eyes and voice; and the thought of Franklin,
of what she had not been able to do for Franklin, made it bitter to her that because she had
not been able to save Franklin, Gerald should find relief.

'You couldn't have robbed me of him if there'd been any chance of that,' she said. 'If there
had been any chance of my loving Franklin I would never have let him go. Don't be glad, don't
show me that you are glad--because I didn't love him.'

'I can't help being glad, Helen,' he said.

She leaned her head on her hand, covering her eyes. While he was there, showing her that he
was glad because she had not loved Franklin, she could not be kind, nor even just to him.

'Helen,' he said, 'I know what you are feeling; but will you listen to me?' She answered that
she would listen to anything he had to say, and her voice had the leaden tone of impersonal
charity.

'Helen,' Gerald said, 'I know how I've blundered. I see everything. But, with it all, seeing
it all, I don't think that you are fair to me. I don't think it is fair if you can't see that
I couldn't have thought of all these other possibilities--after what you'd told me--the other
day. How could I think of anything, then, but the one thing--that you loved me and that I loved
you, and that, of course, I must set my mistake right at once, set Althea free and come to
you? I was very simple and very stupid; but I don't think it's fair not to see that I couldn't
believe you'd really repulse me, finally, if you loved me.'

'You ought to have believed it,' Helen said, still with her covered eyes. 'That is what is
most simple, most stupid in you. You ought to have felt--and you ought to feel now--that to
a woman who could tell you what I did, everything is over.'

'But, Helen, that's my point,' ever so carefully and patiently he insisted. 'How can it be
over when I love you--if you still love me?'

She put down her hand now and looked up at him and she saw his hope; not yet dead; sick, wounded,
perplexed, but, in his care and patience, vigilant. And it was with a sad wonder for the truth
of her own words, that she said, looking up at the face dear beyond all telling for so many
years, 'I don't want you, Gerald. I don't want your love. I'm not blaming you. I am fair to
you. I see that you couldn't help it, and that it was my fault really. But you are asking for
something that isn't there any longer.'

'You mean,' said Gerald, he was very pale, 'that I've won no rights; you don't want a man who
has won no rights.'

'There are no rights to win, Gerald.'

'Because of what I've done to him?'

'Perhaps; but I don't think it's that.'

'Because of what I've done to you--not seeing--all our lives?'

'Perhaps, Gerald. I don't know. I can't tell you, for I don't know myself. I don't think anything
has been killed. I think something is dead that's been dying by inches for years. Don't press
me any more. Accept the truth. It's all over. I don't want you any longer.'

Helen had risen while she spoke and kept her eyes on Gerald's in speaking. Until this moment,
for all his pain and perplexity, he had not lost hope. He had been amazed and helpless and
full of fear, but he had not believed, not really believed, that she was lost to him. Now,
she saw it in his eyes, he did believe; and as the patient, hearing his sentence, gazes dumb
and stricken, facing death, so he gazed at her, seeing irrevocability in her unmoved face.
And, accepting his doom, sheer childishness overcame him. As Franklin the day before had felt,
so he now felt, the intolerableness of his woe; and, as with Franklin, the waves closed over
his head. Helen was so near him that it was but a stumbling step that brought her within his
arms; but it was not with the lover's supplication that he clung to her; he clung, hiding his
face on her breast, like a child to its mother, broken-hearted, bewildered, reproachful. And,
bursting into tears, he sobbed: 'How cruel you are! how cruel! It is your pride--you've the
heart of a stone! If I'd loved you for years and told you and made you know you loved me back--could
I have treated you like this--and cast you off--and stopped loving you, because you'd never
seen before? O Helen, how can you--how can you!'

