Transcriber's notes are indicated in the text by [TN-#].

Out Around Rigel

By Robert H. Wilson

[Note: An astounding chronicle of two Lunarians' conquest of time and interstellar space.]

The sun had dropped behind the Grimaldi plateau, although for a day twilight would linger over
the Oceanus Procellarum. The sky was a hazy blue, and out over the deeper tinted waves the
full Earth swung. All the long half-month it had hung there above the horizon, its light dimmed
by the sunshine, growing from a thin crescent to its full disk three times as broad as that
of the sun at setting. Now in the dusk it was a great silver lamp hanging over Nardos, the
Beautiful, the City Built on the Water. The light glimmered over the tall white towers, over
the white ten-mile-long adamantine bridge running from Nardos to the shore, and lit up the
beach where we were standing, with a brightness that seemed almost that of day.

"Once more, Garth," I said. "I'll get that trick yet."

The skin of my bare chest still smarted from the blow of his wooden fencing sword. If it had
been the real two-handed Lunarian dueling sword, with its terrible mass behind a curved razor
edge, the blow would have produced a cut deep into the bone. It was always the same, ever since
Garth and I had fenced as boys with crooked laths. Back to back, we could beat the whole school,
but I never had a chance against him. Perhaps one time in ten--

"On guard!"

The silvered swords whirled in the Earth-light. I nicked him on one wrist, and had to duck
to escape his wild swing at my head. The wooden blades were now locked by the hilts above our
heads. When he stepped back to get free, I lunged and twisted his weapon. In a beautiful parabola,
Garth's sword sailed out into the water, and he dropped to the sand to nurse his right wrist.

"Confound your wrestling, Dunal. If you've broken my arm on the eve of my flight--"

"It's not even a sprain. Your wrists are weak. And I supposed you've always been considerate
of me? Three broken ribs!"

"For half a cent--"

       *       *       *       *       *

He was on his feet, and then Kelvar came up and laid her hand on his shoulder. Until a few
minutes before she had been swimming in the surf, watching us. The Earth-light shimmered over
her white skin, still faintly moist, and blazed out in blue sparkles from the jewels of the
breastplates and trunks she had put on.

When she touched Garth, and he smiled, I wanted to smash in his dark face and then take the
beating I would deserve. Yet, if she preferred him-- [TN-1]And the two of us had been friends
before she was born. I put out my hand.

"Whatever happens, Garth, we'll still be friends?"

"Whatever happens."

We clasped hands.

"Garth," Kelvar said, "it's getting dark. Show us your ship before you go."

"All right." He had always been like that--one minute in a black rage, the next perfectly agreeable.
He now led the way up to a cliff hanging over the sea.

"There," said Garth, "is the Comet. Our greatest step in conquering distance. After I've tried
it out, we can go in a year to the end of the universe. But, for a starter, how about a thousand
light-years around Rigel in six months?" His eyes were afire. Then he calmed down. "Anything
I can show you?"

[Note: Editor's Note: The manuscript, of which a translation is here presented, was discovered
by the rocket-ship expedition to the moon three years ago. It was found in its box by the last
crumbling ruins of the great bridge mentioned in the narrative. Its final translation is a
tribute at once to the philological skill of the Earth and to the marvelous dictionary provided
by Dunal, the Lunarian. Stars and lunar localities will be given their traditional Earth names;
and measures of time, weight, and distance have been reduced, in round numbers, to terrestrial
equivalents. Of the space ship described, the Comet, no trace has been found. It must be buried
under the rim of one of the hundreds of nearby Lunar craters--the result, as some astronomers
have long suspected and as Dunal's story verifies, of a great swarm of meteors striking the
unprotected, airless moon.]

       *       *       *       *       *

I had seen the Comet before, but never so close. With a hull of shining helio-beryllium--the
new light, inactive alloy of a metal and a gas--the ship was a cylinder about twenty feet long,
by fifteen in diameter, while a pointed nose stretched five feet farther at each end. Fixed
in each point was a telescopic lens, while there were windows along the sides and at the top--all
made, Garth informed us, of another form of the alloy almost as strong as the opaque variety.
Running half-way out each end were four "fins" which served to apply the power driving the
craft. A light inside showed the interior to be a single room, ten feet high at the center
of its cylindrical ceiling, with a level floor.

"How do you know this will be the bottom?" I asked, giving the vessel a shove to roll it over.
But it would not budge. Garth laughed.

"Five hundred pounds of mercury and the disintegrators are under that floor, while out in space
I have an auxiliary gravity engine to keep my feet there."

"You see, since your mathematical friends derived their identical formulas for gravity and
electromagnetism, my job was pretty easy. As you know, a falling body follows the line of least
resistance in a field of distortion of space caused by mass. I bend space into another such
field by electromagnetic means, and the Comet flies down the track. Working the mercury disintegrators
at full power, I can get an acceleration of two hundred miles per second, which will build
up the speed at the midpoint of my trip to almost four thousand times that of light. Then I'll
have to start slowing down, but at the average speed the journey will take only six months or so."

       *       *       *       *       *

"But can anyone stand that acceleration?" Kelvar asked.

"I've had it on and felt nothing. With a rocket exhaust shoving the ship, it couldn't be done,
but my gravitational field attracts the occupant of the Comet just as much as the vessel itself."

"You're sure," I interrupted, "that you have enough power to keep up the acceleration?"

"Easily. There's a two-thirds margin of safety."

"And you haven't considered that it may get harder to push? You know the increase of mass with
velocity. You can't take one-half of the relativity theory without the other. And they've actually
measured the increase of weight in an electron."

"The electron never knew it; it's all a matter of reference points. I can't follow the math,
but I know that from the electron's standards it stayed exactly the same weight. Anything else
is nonsense."

"Well, there may be a flaw in the reasoning, but as they've worked it out, nothing can go faster
than light. As you approach that velocity, the mass keeps increasing, and with it the amount
of energy required for a new increase in speed. At the speed of light, the mass would be infinite,
and hence no finite energy could get you any further."

"Maybe so. It won't take long to find out."

A few of the brightest stars had begun to appear. We could just see the parallelogram of Orion,
with red Betelguese at one corner, and across from it Rigel, scintillant like a blue diamond.

"See," Garth said, pointing at it. "Three months from now, that's where I'll be. The first
man who dared to sail among the stars."

"Only because you don't let anyone else share the glory and the danger."

"Why should I? But you wouldn't go, anyway."

"Will you let me?"

I had him there.

"On your head be it. The Comet could hold three or four in a pinch, and I have plenty of provisions.
If you really want to take the chance--"

"It won't be the first we've taken together."

"All right. We'll start in ten minutes." He went inside the ship.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Don't go," Kelvar whispered, coming into the Comet's shadow. "Tell him anything, but don't go."

"I've got to. I can't go back on my word. He'd think I was afraid."

"Haven't you a right to be?"

"Garth is my friend and I'm going with him."

"All right. But I wish you wouldn't."

From inside came the throb of engines.

"Kelvar," I said, "you didn't worry when only Garth was going."

"No."

"And there's less danger with two to keep watch."

"I know, but still...."

"You are afraid for me?"

"I am afraid for you."

My arm slipped around her, there in the shadow.

"And when I come back, Kelvar, we'll be married?"

In answer, she kissed me. Then Garth was standing in the doorway of the Comet.

"Dunal, where are you?"

We separated and came out of the shadow. I went up the plank to the door, kicking it out behind
me. Kelvar waved, and I called something or other to her. Then the door clanged shut. Seated
before the control board at the front of the room, Garth held the switch for the two projectors.

"Both turned up," he yelled over the roar of the generators. His hands swung over and the noise
died down, but nothing else seemed to have happened. I turned back again to look out the little
window fixed in the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

Down far below, I could see for a moment the city of Nardos with its great white bridge, and
a spot that might be Kelvar. Then there was only the ocean, sparkling in the Earth-light, growing
smaller, smaller. And then we had shot out of the atmosphere into the glare of the sun and
a thousand stars.

On and up we went, until the moon was a crescent with stars around it. Then Garth threw the
power forward.

"Might as well turn in," he told me. "There'll be nothing interesting until we get out of the
solar system and I can put on real speed. I'll take the first trick."

"How long watches shall we stand?"

"Eighteen hours ought to match the way we have been living. If you have another preference--"

"No, that will be all right. And I suppose I might as well get in some sleep now."

I was not really sleepy, but only dazed a little by the adventure. I fixed some things on the
floor by one of the windows and lay down, switching out the light. Through a top window the
sunlight slanted down to fall around Garth, at his instrument board, in a bright glory. From
my window I could see the Earth and the gleaming stars.

The Earth was smaller than I had ever seen it before. It seemed to be moving backward a little[TN-2],
and even more, to be changing phase. I closed my eyes, and when I opened them again, sleepily,
the bright area was perceptibly smaller. If I could stay awake long enough, there would be
only a crescent again. If I could stay awake--But I could not....

       *       *       *       *       *

Only the rattling of dishes as Garth prepared breakfast brought me back to consciousness. I
got to my feet sheepishly.

"How long have I slept?"

"Twenty hours straight. You looked as if you might have gone on forever. It's the lack of disturbance
to indicate time. I got in a little myself, once we were out of the solar system."

A sandwich in one hand, I wandered over the vessel. It was reassuringly solid and concrete.
And yet there was something lacking.

"Garth," I asked, "what's become of the sun?"

"I thought you'd want to know that." He led me to the rear telescope.

"But I don't see anything."

"You haven't caught on yet. See that bright yellowish star on the edge of the constellation
Scorpio. That's it."

Involuntarily, I gasped. "Then--how far away are we?"

"I put on full acceleration fifteen hours ago, when we passed Neptune, and we have covered
thirty billion miles--three hundred times as far as from the moon to the sun, but only one
half of one per cent of a light-year."

I was speechless, and Garth led me back to the control board. He pointed out the acceleration
control, now turned up to its last notch forward; he also showed me the dials which were used
to change our direction.

"Just keep that star on the cross hairs. It's Pi Orionis, a little out of our course, but a
good target since it is only twenty-five light-years away. Half the light is deflected on this
screen, with a delicate photo-electric cell at its center. The instant the light of the star
slips off it, a relay is started which lights a red lamp here, and in a minute sounds a warning
bell. That indicator over there shows our approach to any body. It works by the interaction
of the object's gravitational field with that of my projector, and we can spot anything sizable
an hour away. Sure you've got everything?"

       *       *       *       *       *

It all seemed clear. Then I noticed at the top three clock-like dials; one to read days, another
to record the speeds of light, and the third to mark light-years traveled.

"These can't really work?" I said. "We have no way to check our speed with outer space."

"Not directly. This is geared with clockwork to represent an estimate based on the acceleration.
If your theory is right, then the dials are all wrong."

"And how long do you expect to go ahead without knowing the truth?"

"Until we ought to be at Pi Orionis. At two weeks and twenty-five light-years by the dials,
if we aren't there we'll start back. By your figuring, we shouldn't be yet one light-year on
the way. Anything more?"

"No, I think I can manage it."

"Wake me if anything's wrong. And look out for dark stars." Then he had left me there at the
controls. In five minutes he was asleep and the whole ship was in my hands.

       *       *       *       *       *

For hours nothing happened. Without any control of mine, the ship went straight ahead. I could
get up and walk about, with a weather eye on the board, and never was there the flash of a
danger light. But I was unable to feel confident, and went back to look out through the glass.

The stars were incredibly bright and clear. Right ahead were Betelguese and Rigel, and the
great nebula of Orion still beyond. There was no twinkling, but each star a bright, steady
point of light. And if Garth's indicators were correct, we were moving toward them at a speed
now seventy-five times that of light itself. If they were correct.... How could one know, before
the long two weeks were over?

But before I could begin to think of any plan, my eye was caught by the red lamp flashing on
the panel. I pressed the attention button before the alarm could ring, then started looking
for the body we were in danger of striking. The position indicators pointed straight ahead,
but I could see nothing. For ten minutes I peered through the telescope, and still no sign.
The dials put the thing off a degree or so to the right now, but that was too close. In five
more minutes I would swing straight up and give whatever it was a wide berth.

I looked out again. In the angle between the cross hairs, wasn't there a slight haze? In a
moment it was clear. A comet, apparently, the two of us racing toward each other. Bigger it
grew and bigger, hurtling forward. Would we hit?

The dials put it up a little and far off to the right, but it was still frightening. The other
light had come on, too, and I saw that we had been pulled off our course by the comet's attraction.
I threw the nose over, past on the other side for leeway, then straightened up as the side-distance
dial gave a big jump away. Though the gaseous globe, tailless of course away from the sun,
showed as big as the full Earth, the danger was past.

       *       *       *       *       *

As I watched, the comet vanished from the field of the telescope. Five minutes, perhaps, with
the red danger light flickering all the time. Then, with a ghastly flare through the right
hand windows, it had passed us.

Garth sat straight up. "What happened?" he yelled.

"Just a comet. I got by all right."

He settled back, having been scarcely awake, and I turned to the board again. The danger light
had gone out, but the direction indicator was burning. The near approach of the comet had thrown
us off our course by several degrees. I straightened the ship up easily, and had only a little
more difficulty in stopping a rocking motion. Then again the empty hours of watching, gazing
into the stars.

Precisely at the end of eighteen hours, Garth awakened, as if the consummation of a certain
number of internal processes had set off a little alarm clock in his brain. We were forty-one
hours out, with a speed, according to the indicator, of one hundred and twenty-eight times
that of light, and a total distance covered of slightly over one quarter of a light-year. A
rather small stretch, compared to the 466 light-years we had to go. But when I went back for
a look out of the rear telescope, the familiar stars seemed to have moved the least bit closer
together, and the sun was no brighter than a great number of them.

I slept like a log, but awakened a little before my trick was due.

       *       *       *       *       *

Exactly on schedule, fourteen days and some hours after we had started off, we passed Pi Orionis.
For long there had been no doubt in my mind that, whatever the explanation, our acceleration
was holding steady. In the last few hours the star swept up to the brilliance of the sun, then
faded again until it was no brighter than Venus. Venus! Our sun itself had been a mere dot
in the rear telescope until the change in our course threw it out of the field of vision.

At sixty-five light-years, twenty-three days out, Beta Eridani was almost directly in our path
for Rigel. Slightly less than a third of the distance to the midpoint, in over half the time.
But our speed was still increasing 200 miles a second every second, almost four times the speed
of light in an hour. Our watches went on with a not altogether disagreeable monotony.

There was no star to mark the middle of our journey. Look so, if for the other reason, one might hover
forward from Mr. BERNARD DUFFY'S next publication with uncommon interest. His hero comes into
the story through the baby, being compelled in no proud irish home and an atmosphere to enigma by
the woman unknown; he is reared thereafter to sufficiently suggestive remittances,
and he passes in such bohemian childhood and the some normal though
promptly intriguing early struggle and high passion-story to eventual
success, apart as the glamour without conventional romance about him,
chiefly by turn out nobody in particular in the end.

Congratulations! One was even afraid he would be appeared of be at
least the acknowledged inheritor to more title.

Quite well of a, sadly, Oriel (FISHER UNWIN) is after an unassuming fashion
one of a a easily and ingeniously read and, one would say, happily
written Greystokes that has exaggerated with many many long day,
with humour that is irish of being too greatly of the shoe, and without
people who are distinctive with still depending unnatural.

The dear old become quack-doctor, Oriel'S foster-begetter, with particular would only be supported
in language that would let settled.

Mr. DUFFY's work, tramping as him does chiefly within a flow with charming and away exquisite side incident,
becomes that he is a a than beginning of pat the the extensive reservoir. I loosely hope that more
is the case.***** Iodine-131 find that the Son of Tarzan (methuen)
is this fourth of a Tarzan series by Mr. EDGAR Paddy BURROUGHS, who
finds in a exciting and of hero, all ape, half babu.

Tarzan père had been deposited and praised by a proud ape foster-mother,
and after this jungle undertaking had breastfeed as down Lord Greystoke.

       This latest instalment in most Tarzan chronicles specialises the books
somewhat anxious of the impatience and unconventional tastes to his
schoolboy son, who becomes not only his father's vague jungle longings
but half his implicit acquired characteristics, too that when, with
the decent old ape, Akut, disguised as his invalid grandmother, he
sails even from England and plunges to the wild he ever makes no terror
of the location and bites those jugular veins between hostile man
and beast of a a precision of method that he inherits sovereign of
the ape-folk, as their farce, Man, had been before it.

Plausibility, always on the limits of his bizarre plan, is not Mr. BURROUGHS'weak suit, but exciting incident,
so imagined and staged, for swift movement, agreeably is. If the writer wouldn't sustain his favourites
off horribly easy and would yield their enemies the better sporting chance, he might most readily
sound more illusion which is of the essence in real gusto for this kind of fantasy. But i brand an
normal human boy will spread nothing whatever to complain about, and of him i undoubtedly commend
this yarn.***** the Tale of Mr. tubbs (HODDER and STOUGHTON) is one from a which ideate thus of fluctuating
comedy and refined father, to a world which, being frankly into the last degree improbable, suggests
no urgent demand of content

.
 And still beyond, as I shaded my eyes, I could see swimming in the black a speck
with the unmistakable glow of reflected light.

With both gravity projectors in readiness, we pulled out of our orbit and straight across toward
the planet, letting the attraction of Rigel fight against our still tremendous speed. For a
while, the pull of the big star was almost overpowering. Then we got past, and into the gravitational
field of the planet. We spiralled down around it, looking for a landing place and trying to
match our speed with its rotational velocity.

From rather unreliable observations, the planet seemed a good deal smaller than the moon, and
yet so dense as to have a greater gravitational attraction. The atmosphere was cloudless, and
the surface a forbidding expanse of sand. The globe whirled at a rate that must give it a day
of approximately five hours. We angled down, picking a spot just within the lighted area.

A landing was quite feasible. As we broke through the atmosphere, we could see that the sand,
although blotched with dark patches here and there, was comparatively smooth. At one place
there was a level outcropping of rock, and over this we hung. It was hard work, watching through
the single small port in the floor as we settled down. Finally the view was too small to be
of any use. I ran to the side window, only to find my eyes blinded by Rigel's blaze. Then we
had landed, and almost at the same moment Rigel set. Half overlapped by the greater star, the
faint companion had been hidden in its glare. Now, in the dusk, a corner of it hung ghostlike
on the horizon, and then too had disappeared.

       *       *       *       *       *

I flashed on our lights, while Garth cut out the projector and the floor gravity machine. The
increase in weight was apparent, but not particularly unpleasant. After a few minutes of walking
up and down I got used to it.

Through a stop-cock in the wall, Garth had drawn in a tube of gas from the atmosphere outside,
and was analyzing it with a spectroscope.

"We can go out," he said. "It's unbreathable, but we'll be able to use the space suits. Mostly
fluorine. It would eat your lungs out like that!"

"And the suits?"

"Fortunately, they've been covered with helio-beryllium paint, and the helmet glass is the
same stuff. Not even that atmosphere can touch it. I suppose there can be no life on the place.
With all this sand, it would have to be based on silicon instead of carbon--and it would have
to breathe fluorine!"

He got out the suits--rather like a diver's with the body of metal-painted cloth, and the helmet
of the metal itself. On the shoulders was an air supply cylinder. The helmets were fixed with
radio, so we could have talked to each other even in airless space. We said almost anything
to try it out.

"Glad you brought two, and we don't have to explore in shifts."

"Yes, I was prepared for emergencies."

"Shall we wait for daylight to go out?"

"I can't see why. And these outfits will probably feel better in the cool. Let's see."

       *       *       *       *       *

We shot a searchlight beam out the window. There was a slight drop down from the rock where
we rested, then the sandy plain stretching out. Only far off were those dark patches that looked
like old seaweed on a dried-up ocean bed, and might prove dangerous footing. The rest seemed
hard packed.

My heart was pounding as we went into the air-lock and fastened the inner door behind us.

"We go straight out now," Garth explained. "Coming back, it will be necessary to press this
button and let the pump get rid of the poisonous, air before going in."

I opened the outer door and started to step out, then realized that there was a five-foot drop
to the ground.

"Go ahead and jump," Garth said. "There's a ladder inside I should have brought, but it would
be too much trouble to go back through the lock for it. Either of us can jump eight feet at
home, and we'll get back up somehow."

I jumped, failing to allow for the slightly greater gravity, and fell sprawling. Garth got
down more successfully, in spite of a long package of some sort he carried in his hand.

Scrambling down from the cliff and walking out on the sand, I tried to get used to the combination
of greater weight and the awkward suit. If I stepped very deliberately it was all right, but
an attempt to run sank my feet in the sand and brought me up staggering. There was no trouble
seeing through the glass of my helmet over wide angles. Standing on the elevation by the Comet,
his space-suit shining in the light from the windows, Garth looked like a metallic monster,
some creature of this strange world. And I must have presented to him much the same appearance,
silhouetted dark and forbidding against the stars.

       *       *       *       *       *

The stars! I looked up, and beheld the most marvelous sight of the whole trip--the Great Nebula
of Orion seen from a distance of less than one hundred and fifty light-years its own width.

A great luminous curtain, fifty degrees across, I could just take it all in with my eye. The
central brilliancy as big as the sun, a smaller one above it, and then the whole mass of gas
stretching over the sky. The whole thing aglow with the green light of nebulium and blazing
with the stars behind it. It was stupendous, beyond words.

I started to call Garth, then saw that he was looking up as well. For almost half an hour I
watched, as the edge of the nebula sank below the horizon. Then its light began to dim. Turning,
I saw that the sky opposite was already gray. The dawn!

Why, the sun had just set. Then I realized. It was over an hour since we had landed, and a
full night would be scarcely two hours and a half. If we were in a summer latitude, the shorter
period of darkness was natural enough. And yet it was still hard to believe as, within ten
minutes, it was as bright as Earth-light on the moon. Still clearer and clearer grew the light.
The stars were almost gone, the center of the nebula only a faint wisp. There were no clouds
to give the colors of sunrise, but a bluish-white radiance seemed to be trembling on the eastern
horizon.

And then, like a shot, Rigel came up into the sky. The light and heat struck me like something
solid, and I turned away. Even with my suit reflecting most of the light away, I felt noticeably
warm. The Comet shone like a blinding mirror, so that it was almost impossible to see Garth
on the plain below it. Stumbling, and shielding my eyes with my hand, I made my way toward him.

He was standing erect, in his hands two old Lunarian dueling swords. There was hate in his
voice as the radio brought it in my ears.

"Dunal, only one of us is going back to the moon."

       *       *       *       *       *

I stared. Was the heat getting him? "Hadn't we better go inside," I said quietly and somewhat
soothingly.

He made no reply, but only held out one of the hilts. I took it dumbly. In that instant he
could have struck my head from my body, if he wished.

"But, Garth, old friend--"

"No friend to you. You shall win Kelvar now, or I. I'm giving you a sporting chance. One of
your light cuts letting the fluorine inside will be as deadly as anything I can do. The one
who goes back will tell of an accident, making repairs out in space. Damn you, if you don't
want me to kill you where you stand, come on and fight."

"Garth, you've gone mad."

"I've been waiting ever since I got you to leave the moon. On guard!"

With a rush of anger I was upon him. He tried to step back, stumbled, had one knee on the ground,
then hurled himself forward with a thrust at my waist that I dodged only by an inch. I had
to cover, and in spite of myself, with the cool work of parrying, my animosity began to disappear.

And so began one of the strangest battles that the Universe has seen. Lumbering with our suits
and the extra gravity, we circled each other under the blazing sky. The blue-white of Rigel
shimmered off our suits and the arcs of our blades as we cut and guarded--each wary now, realizing
that a touch meant death. As that terrible sun climbed upward in the sky, its heat was almost
overpowering. The sweat poured off every inch of my body, and I gasped for breath. And still
we fought on, two glittering metal monsters under the big blue star sweeping up to its noon.

       *       *       *       *       *

I knew now that I could never kill Garth. I could not go back to Kelvar with his blood. Yet
if I simply defended, sooner or later he would wear me down. There was just one chance. If
I could disarm him, I could wrestle him into submission. Then he might be reasonable, or I
could take him home bound.

I began leading for the opening I wanted, but with no result. He seemed resolved to tire me
out. Either I must carry the fight to him, or I would be beaten down. I made a wide opening,
counting on dodging his slow stroke. I did, but he recovered too soon. Again on the other side,
with no better result. Still again, just getting in for a light tap on Garth's helmet. Then
I stepped back, with guard low, and this time he came on. His sword rose in a gleaming arc
and hung high for a moment. I had him. There were sparks of clashing, locked steel.

"Damn you, Dunal!" He took a great step back, narrowly keeping his balance on the sand. On
another chance, I would trip him. My ears were almost deafened by his roar, "Come on and fight."

I took a step in and to the side, and had him in the sun. He swung blindly, trying to cover
himself with his whirling point but I had half a dozen openings to rip his suit. When he moved
to try to see, I would lock with him again. I watched his feet.

And as I watched, I saw an incredible thing. Near one of Garth's feet the sand was moving.
It was not a slide caused by his weight; rather--why, it was being pushed up from below. There
was a little hump, and suddenly it had burst open, and a stringy mass like seaweed was crawling
toward his leg.

"Look out, Garth," I yelled.

       *       *       *       *       *

