LORD'S LECTURES

BEACON LIGHTS OF HISTORY, VOLUME I

THE OLD PAGAN CIVILIZATIONS.

PUBLISHERS' NOTE.

In preparing a new edition of Dr. Lord's great work, the "Beacon Lights of History," it has
been necessary to make some rearrangement of lectures and volumes. Dr. Lord began with his
volume on classic "Antiquity," and not until he had completed five volumes did he return to
the remoter times of "Old Pagan Civilizations" (reaching back to Assyria and Egypt) and the
"Jewish Heroes and Prophets." These issued, he took up again the line of great men and movements,
and brought it down to modern days.

The "Old Pagan Civilizations," of course, stretch thousands of years before the Hebrews, and
the volume so entitled would naturally be the first. Then follows the volume on "Jewish Heroes
and Prophets," ending with St. Paul and the Christian Era. After this volume, which in any
position, dealing with the unique race of the Jews, must stand by itself, we return to the
brilliant picture of the Pagan centuries, in "Ancient Achievements" and "Imperial Antiquity,"
the latter coming down to the Fall of Rome in the fourth century A.D., which ends the era of
"Antiquity" and begins the "Middle Ages."

NEW YORK, September 15, 1902.

AUTHOR'S PREFACE.

It has been my object in these Lectures to give the substance of accepted knowledge pertaining
to the leading events and characters of history; and in treating such a variety of subjects,
extending over a period of more than six thousand years, each of which might fill a volume,
I have sought to present what is true rather than what is new.

Although most of these Lectures have been delivered, in some form, during the last forty years,
in most of the cities and in many of the literary institutions of this country, I have carefully
revised them within the last few years, in order to avail myself of the latest light shed on
the topics and times of which they treat.

The revived and wide-spread attention given to the study of the Bible, under the stimulus of
recent Oriental travels and investigations, not only as a volume of religious guidance, but
as an authentic record of most interesting and important events, has encouraged me to include
a series of Lectures on some of the remarkable men identified with Jewish history.

Of course I have not aimed at an exhaustive criticism in these Biblical studies, since the
topics cannot be exhausted even by the most learned scholars; but I have sought to interest
intelligent Christians by a continuous narrative, interweaving with it the latest accessible
knowledge bearing on the main subjects. If I have persisted in adhering to the truths that
have been generally accepted for nearly two thousand years, I have not disregarded the light
which has been recently shed on important points by the great critics of the progressive schools.

I have not aimed to be exhaustive, or to give minute criticism on comparatively unimportant
points; but the passions and interests which have agitated nations, the ideas which great men
have declared, and the institutions which have grown out of them, have not, I trust, been uncandidly
described, nor deductions from them illogically made.

Inasmuch as the interest in the development of those great ideas and movements which we call
Civilization centres in no slight degree in the men who were identified with them, I have endeavored
to give a faithful picture of their lives in connection with the eras and institutions which
they represent, whether they were philosophers, ecclesiastics, or men of action.

And that we may not lose sight of the precious boons which illustrious benefactors have been
instrumental in bestowing upon mankind, it has been my chief object to present their services,
whatever may have been their defects; since it is for services that most great men are ultimately
judged, especially kings and rulers. These services, certainly, constitute the gist of history,
and it is these which I have aspired to show.

JOHN LORD.

VOL. I.

THE OLD PAGAN CIVILIZATIONS.

CONTENTS.

ANCIENT RELIGIONS:

EGYPTIAN, ASSYRIAN, BABYLONIAN, AND PERSIAN.

Ancient religions Christianity not progressive Jewish monotheism Religion of Egypt Its great
antiquity Its essential features Complexity of Egyptian polytheism Egyptian deities The worship
of the sun The priestly caste of Egypt Power of the priests Future rewards and punishments
Morals of the Egyptians Functions of the priests Egyptian ritual of worship Transmigration
of souls Animal worship Effect of Egyptian polytheism on the Jews Assyrian deities Phoenician
deities Worship of the sun Oblations and sacrifices Idolatry the sequence of polytheism Religion
of the Persians Character of the early Iranians Comparative purity of the Persian religion
Zoroaster Magism Zend-Avesta Dualism Authorities

RELIGIONS OF INDIA.

BRAHMANISM AND BUDDHISM.

Religions of India Antiquity of Brahmanism Sanskrit literature The Aryan races Original religion
of the Aryans Aryan migrations The Vedas Ancient deities of India Laws of Menu Hindu pantheism
Corruption of Brahmanism The Brahmanical caste Character of the Brahmans Rise of Buddhism Gautama
Experiences of Gautama Travels of Buddha His religious system Spread of his doctrine Buddhism
a reaction against Brahmanism Nirvana Gloominess of Buddhism Buddhism as a reform of morals
Sayings of Siddârtha His rules Failure of Buddhism in India Authorities

RELIGION OF THE GREEKS AND ROMANS.

CLASSIC MYTHOLOGY.

Religion of the Greeks and Romans Greek myths Greek priests Greek divinities Greek polytheism
Greek mythology Adoption of Oriental fables Greek deities the creation of poets Peculiarities
of the Greek gods The Olympian deities The minor deities The Greeks indifferent to a future
state Augustine view of heathen deities Artists vie with poets in conceptions of divine Temple
of Zeus in Olympia Greek festivals No sacred books among the Greeks A religion without deities
Roman divinities Peculiarities of Roman worship Ritualism and hypocrisy Character of the Roman
Authorities

CONFUCIUS.

SAGE AND MORALIST.

Early condition of China Youth of Confucius His public life His reforms His fame His wanderings
His old age His writings His philosophy His definition of a superior man His ethics His views
of government His veneration for antiquity His beautiful character His encouragement of learning
His character as statesman His exaltation of filial piety His exaltation of friendship The
supremacy of the State Necessity of good men in office Peaceful policy of Confucius Veneration
for his writings His posthumous influence Lao-tse Authorities

ANCIENT PHILOSOPHY.

SEEKING AFTER TRUTH.

Intellectual superiority of the Greeks Early progress of philosophy The Greek philosophy The
Ionian Sophoi Thales and his principles Anaximenes Diogenes of Apollonia Heraclitus of Ephesus
Anaxagoras Anaximander Pythagoras and his school Xenophanes Zeno of Elea Empedocles and the
Eleatics Loftiness of the Greek philosopher Progress of scepticism The Sophists Socrates His
exposure of error Socrates as moralist The method of Socrates His services to philosophy His
disciples Plato Ideas of Plato Archer Butler on Plato Aristotle His services The syllogism
The Epicureans Sir James Mackintosh on Epicurus The Stoics Zeno Principles of the Stoical philosophy
Philosophy among the Romans Cicero Epictetus Authorities

SOCRATES.

GREEK PHILOSOPHY.

Mission of Socrates Era of his birth; view of his times His personal appearance and peculiarities
His lofty moral character His sarcasm and ridicule of opponents The Sophists Neglect of his
family His friendship with distinguished people His philosophic method His questions and definitions
His contempt of theories Imperfection of contemporaneous physical science The Ionian philosophers
Socrates bases truth on consciousness Uncertainty of physical inquiries in his day Superiority
of moral truth Happiness, Virtue, Knowledge,--the Socratic trinity The "daemon" of Socrates
His idea of God and Immortality Socrates a witness and agent of God Socrates compared with
Buddha and Marcus Aurelius His resemblance to Christ in life and teachings Unjust charges of
his enemies His unpopularity His trial and defence His audacity His condemnation The dignity
of his last hours His easy death Tardy repentance of the Athenians; statue by Lysippus Posthumous
influence Authorities

PHIDIAS.

GREEK ART.

General popular interest in Art
Principles on which it is based
Phidias taken merely as a text
Not much known of his personal history
His most famous statues; Minerva and Olympian Jove
His peculiar excellences as a sculptor
Definitions of the word "Art"
Its representation of ideas of beauty and grace
The glory and dignity of art
The connection of plastic with literary art
Architecture, the first expression of art
Peculiarities of Egyptian and Assyrian architecture
Ancient temples, tombs, pyramids, and palaces
General features of Grecian architecture
The Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian orders
Simplicity and beauty of their proportions...
The horizontal lines of Greek and the vertical lines of
  Gothic architecture
Assyrian, Egyptian, and Indian sculpture
Superiority of Greek sculpture
Ornamentation of temples with statues of gods, heroes, and
  distinguished men
The great sculptors of antiquity
Their ideal excellence
Antiquity of painting in Babylon and Egypt
Its gradual development in Greece
Famous Grecian painters
Decline of art among the Romans
Art as seen in literature
Literature not permanent without art
Artists as a class
Art a refining influence rather than a moral power
Authorities

LITERARY GENIUS.

THE GREEK AND ROMAN CLASSICS.

Richness of Greek classic poetry Homer Greek lyrical poetry Pindar Dramatic poetry Aeschylus,
Sophocles, and Euripides Greek comedy: Aristophanes Roman poetry Naevius, Plautus, Terence
Roman epic poetry: Virgil Lyrical poetry: Horace, Catullus Didactic poetry: Lucretius Elegiac
poetry: Ovid, Tibullus Satire: Horace, Martial, Juvenal Perfection of Greek prose writers History:
Herodotus Thucydides, Xenophon Roman historians Julius Caesar Livy Tacitus Orators Pericles
Demosthenes Aeschines Cicero Learned men: Varro Seneca Quintilian Lucian Authorities

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

VOLUME I.

Agapè, or Love Feast among the Early Christians Frontispiece After the painting by J.A. Mazerolle.

Procession of the Sacred Bull Apis-Osiris After the painting by E.F. Bridgman.

Driving Sacrificial Victims into the Fiery Mouth of Baal After the painting by Henri Motte.

Apollo Belvedere From a photograph of the statue in the Vatican, Rome.

Confucian Temple, Forbidden City, Pekin From a photograph.

The School of Plato After the painting by O. Knille.

Socrates Instructing Alcibiades After the painting by H.F. Schopin.

Socrates From the bust in the National Museum, Naples.

Pericles and Aspasia in the Studio of Phidias After the painting by Hector Le Roux.

Zeuxis Choosing Models from among the Beauties of Kroton for his Picture
  of Helen
After the painting by E. Pagliano.

Homer From the bust in the National Museum, Naples.

Demosthenes From the statue in the Vatican, Rome.

ANCIENT RELIGIONS:

EGYPTIAN, ASSYRIAN, BABYLONIAN, AND PERSIAN.

BEACON LIGHTS OF HISTORY.

ANCIENT RELIGIONS:

EGYPTIAN, ASSYRIAN, BABYLONIAN, AND PERSIAN.

It is my object in this book on the old Pagan civilizations to present the salient points only,
since an exhaustive work is impossible within the limits of these volumes. The practical end
which I have in view is to collate a sufficient number of acknowledged facts from which to
draw sound inferences in reference to the progress of the human race, and the comparative welfare
of nations in ancient and modern times.

The first inquiry we naturally make is in regard to the various religious systems which were
accepted by the ancient nations, since religion, in some form or other, is the most universal
of institutions, and has had the earliest and the greatest influence on the condition and life
of peoples--that is to say, on their civilizations--in every period of the world. And, necessarily,
considering what is the object in religion, when we undertake to examine any particular form
of it which has obtained among any people or at any period of time, we must ask, How far did
its priests and sages teach exalted ideas of Deity, of the soul, and of immortality? How far
did they arrive at lofty and immutable principles of morality? How far did religion, such as
was taught, practically affect the lives of those who professed it, and lead them to just and
reasonable treatment of one another, or to holy contemplation, or noble deeds, or sublime repose
in anticipation of a higher and endless life? And how did the various religions compare with
what we believe to be the true religion--Christianity--in its pure and ennobling truths, its
inspiring promises, and its quiet influence in changing and developing character?

I assume that there is no such thing as a progressive Christianity, except in so far as mankind
grow in the realization of its lofty principles; that there has not been and will not be any
improvement on the ethics and spiritual truths revealed by Jesus the Christ, but that they
will remain forever the standard of faith and practice. I assume also that Christianity has
elements which are not to be found in any other religion,--such as original teachings, divine
revelations, and sublime truths. I know it is the fashion with many thinkers to maintain that
improvements on the Christian system are both possible and probable, and that there is scarcely
a truth which Christ and his apostles declared which cannot be found in some other ancient
religion, when divested of the errors there incorporated with it. This notion I repudiate.
I believe that systems of religion are perfect or imperfect, true or false, just so far as
they agree or disagree with Christianity; and that to the end of time all systems are to be
measured by the Christian standard, and not Christianity by any other system.

The oldest religion of which we have clear and authentic account is probably the pure monotheism
held by the Jews. Some nations have claimed a higher antiquity for their religion--like the
Egyptians and Chinese--than that which the sacred writings of the Hebrews show to have been
communicated to Abraham, and to earlier men of God treated of in those Scriptures; but their
claims are not entitled to our full credence. We are in doubt about them. The origin of religions
is enshrouded in mystical darkness, and is a mere speculation. Authentic history does not go
back far enough to settle this point. The primitive religion of mankind I believe to have been
revealed to inspired men, who, like Shem, walked with God. Adam, in paradise, knew who God
was, for he heard His voice; and so did Enoch and Noah, and, more clearly than all, Abraham.
They believed in a personal God, maker of heaven and earth, infinite in power, supreme in goodness,
without beginning and without end, who exercises a providential oversight of the world which
he made.

It is certainly not unreasonable to claim the greatest purity and loftiness in the monotheistic
faith of the Hebrew patriarchs, as handed down to his children by Abraham, over that of all
other founders of ancient religious systems, not only since that faith was, as we believe,
supernaturally communicated, but since the fruit of that stock, especially in its Christian
development, is superior to all others. This sublime monotheism was ever maintained by the
Hebrew race, in all their wanderings, misfortunes, and triumphs, except on occasions when they
partially adopted the gods of those nations with whom they came in contact, and by whom they
were corrupted or enslaved.

But it is not my purpose to discuss the religion of the Jews in this connection, since it is
treated in other volumes of this series, and since everybody has access to the Bible, the earlier
portions of which give the true account not only of the Hebrews and their special progenitor
Abraham, but of the origin of the earth and of mankind; and most intelligent persons are familiar
with its details.

I begin my description of ancient religions with those systems with which the Jews were more
or less familiar, and by which they were more or less influenced. And whether these religions
were, as I think, themselves corrupted forms of the primitive revelation to primitive man,
or, as is held by some philosophers of to-day, natural developments out of an original worship
of the powers of Nature, of ghosts of ancestral heroes, of tutelar deities of household, family,
tribe, nation, and so forth, it will not affect their relation to my plan of considering this
background of history in its effects upon modern times, through Judaism and Christianity.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first which naturally claims our attention is the religion of ancient Egypt. But I can
show only the main features and characteristics of this form of paganism, avoiding the complications
of their system and their perplexing names as much as possible. I wish to present what is ascertained
and intelligible rather than what is ingenious and obscure.

The religion of Egypt is very old,--how old we cannot tell with certainty. We know that it
existed before Abraham, and with but few changes, for at least two thousand years. Mariette
places the era of the first Egyptian dynasty under Menes at 5004 B.C. It is supposed that the
earliest form of the Egyptian religion was monotheistic, such as was known later, however,
only to a few of the higher priesthood. What the esoteric wisdom really was we can only conjecture,
since there are no sacred books or writings that have come down to us, like the Indian Vedas
and the Persian Zend-Avesta. Herodotus affirms that he knew the mysteries, but he did not reveal
them.

But monotheism was lost sight of in Egypt at an earlier period than the beginning of authentic
history. It is the fate of all institutions to become corrupt, and this is particularly true
of religious systems. The reason of this is not difficult to explain. The Bible and human experience
fully exhibit the course of this degradation. Hence, before Abraham's visit to Egypt the religion
of that land had degenerated into a gross and complicated polytheism, which it was apparently
for the interest of the priesthood to perpetuate.

The Egyptian religion was the worship of the powers of Nature,--the sun, the moon, the planets,
the air, the storm, light, fire, the clouds, the rivers, the lightning, all of which were supposed
to exercise a mysterious influence over human destiny. There was doubtless an indefinite sense
of awe in view of the wonders of the material universe, extending to a vague fear of some almighty
supremacy over all that could be seen or known. To these powers of Nature the Egyptians gave
names, and made them divinities.

The Egyptian polytheism was complex and even contradictory. What it lost in logical sequence
it gained in variety. Wilkinson enumerates seventy-three principal divinities, and Birch sixty-three;
but there were some hundreds of lesser gods, discharging peculiar functions and presiding over
different localities. Every town had its guardian deity, to whom prayers or sacrifices were
offered by the priests. The more complicated the religious rites the more firmly cemented was
the power of the priestly caste, and the more indispensable were priestly services for the
offerings and propitiations.

Of these Egyptian deities there were eight of the first rank; but the list of them differs
according to different writers, since in the great cities different deities were worshipped.
These were Ammon--the concealed god,--the sovereign over all (corresponding to the Jupiter
of the Romans), whose sacred city was Thebes. At a later date this god was identified with
Ammon Ra, the physical sun. Ra was the sun-god, especially worshipped at Heliopolis,--the symbol
of light and heat. Kneph was the spirit of God moving over the face of the waters, whose principal
seat of worship was in Upper Egypt. Phtha was a sort of artisan god, who made the sun, moon,
and the earth, "the father of beginnings;" his sign was the scarabaeus, or beetle, and his
patron city was Memphis. Khem was the generative principle presiding over the vegetable world,--the
giver of fertility and lord of the harvest. These deities are supposed to have represented
spirit passing into matter and form,--a process of divine incarnation.

But the most popular deity was Osiris. His image is found standing on the oldest monument,
a form of Ra, the light of the lower world, and king and judge of Hades. His worship was universal
throughout Egypt, but his chief temples were at Abydos and Philae. He was regarded as mild,
beneficent, and good. In opposition to him were Set, malignant and evil, and Bes, the god of
death. Isis, the wife and sister of Osiris, was a sort of sun goddess, representing the productive
power of Nature. Khons was the moon god. Maut, the consort of Ammon, represented Nature. Sati,
the wife of Kneph, bore a resemblance to Juno. Nut was the goddess of the firmament; Ma was
the goddess of truth; Horus was the mediator between creation and destruction.

But in spite of the multiplicity of deities, the Egyptian worship centred in some form upon
heat or fire, generally the sun, the most powerful and brilliant of the forces of Nature. Among
all the ancient pagan nations the sun, the moon, and the planets, under different names, whether
impersonated or not, were the principal objects of worship for the people. To these temples
were erected, statues raised, and sacrifices made.

No ancient nation was more devout, or more constant to the service of its gods, than were the
Egyptians; and hence, being superstitious, they were pre-eminently under the control of priests,
as the people were in India. We see, chiefly in India and Egypt, the power of caste,--tyrannical,
exclusive, and pretentious,--and powerful in proportion to the belief in a future state. Take
away the belief in future existence and future rewards and punishments, and there is not much
religion left. There may be philosophy and morality, but not religion, which is based on the
fear and love of God, and the destiny of the soul after death. Saint Augustine, in his "City
of God," his greatest work, ridicules all gods who are not able to save the soul, and all religions
where future existence is not recognized as the most important thing which can occupy the mind
of man.

We cannot then utterly despise the religion of Egypt, in spite of the absurdities mingled with
it,--the multiplicity of gods and the doctrine of metempsychosis,--since it included a distinct
recognition of a future state of rewards and punishments "according to the deeds done in the
body." On this belief rested the power of the priests, who were supposed to intercede with
the deities, and who alone were appointed to offer to them sacrifices, in order to gain their
favor or deprecate their wrath. The idea of death and judgment was ever present to the thoughts
of the Egyptians, from the highest to the lowest, and must have modified their conduct, stimulating
them to virtue, and restraining them from vice; for virtue and vice are not revelations,--they
are instincts implanted in the soul. No ancient teacher enjoined the duties based on an immutable
morality with more force than Confucius, Buddha, and Epictetus. Who in any land or age has
ignored the duties of filial obedience, respect to rulers, kindness to the miserable, protection
to the weak, honesty, benevolence, sincerity, and truthfulness? With the discharge of these
duties, written on the heart, have been associated the favor of the gods, and happiness in
the future world, whatever errors may have crept into theological dogmas and speculations.

Believing then in a future state, where sin would be punished and virtue rewarded, and believing
in it firmly and piously, the ancient Egyptians were a peaceful and comparatively moral people.
All writers admit their industry, their simplicity of life, their respect for law, their loyalty
to priests and rulers. Hence there was permanence to their institutions, for rapine, violence,
and revolution were rare. They were not warlike, although often engaged in war by the command
of ambitious kings. Generally the policy of their government was conservative and pacific.
Military ambition and thirst for foreign conquest were not the peculiar sins of Egyptian kings;
they sought rather to develop national industries and resources. The occupation of the people
was in agriculture and the useful arts, which last they carried to considerable perfection,
especially in the working of metals, textile fabrics, and ornamental jewelry. Their grand monuments
were not triumphal arches, but temples and mausoleums. Even the pyramids may have been built
to preserve the bodies of kings until the soul should be acquitted or condemned, and therefore
more religious in their uses than as mere emblems of pride and power; and when monuments were
erected to perpetuate the fame of princes, their supreme design was to receive the engraven
memorials of the virtuous deeds of kings as fathers of the people.

The priests, whose business it was to perform religious rites and ceremonies to the various
gods of the Egyptians, were extremely numerous. They held the highest social rank, and were
exempt from taxes. They were clothed in white linen, which was kept scrupulously clean. They
washed their whole bodies twice a day; they shaved the head, and wore no beard. They practised
circumcision, which rite was of extreme antiquity, existing in Egypt two thousand four hundred
years before Christ, and at least four hundred years before Abraham, and has been found among
primitive peoples all over the world. They did not make a show of sanctity, nor were they ascetic
like the Brahmans. They were married, and were allowed to drink wine and to eat meat, but not
fish nor beans, which disturbed digestion. The son of a priest was generally a priest also.
There were grades of rank among the priesthood; but not more so than in the Roman Catholic
Church. The high-priest was a great dignitary, and generally belonged to the royal family.
The king himself was a priest.

The Egyptian ritual of worship was the most complicated of all rituals, and their literature
and philosophy were only branches of theology. "Religious observances," says Freeman Clarke,
"were so numerous and so imperative that the most common labors of daily life could not be
performed without a perpetual reference to some priestly regulation." There were more religious
festivals than among any other ancient nation. The land was covered with temples; and every
temple consecrated to a single divinity, to whom some animal was sacred, supported a large
body of priests. The authorities on Egyptian history, especially Wilkinson, speak highly, on
the whole, of the morals of the priesthood, and of their arduous and gloomy life of superintending
ceremonies, sacrifices, processions, and funerals. Their life was so full of minute duties
and restrictions that they rarely appeared in public, and their aspect as well as influence
was austere and sacerdotal.

One of the most distinctive features of the Egyptian religion was the idea of the transmigration
of souls,--that when men die; their souls reappear on earth in various animals, in expiation
of their sins. Osiris was the god before whose tribunal all departed spirits appeared to be
judged. If evil preponderated in their lives, their souls passed into a long series of animals
until their sins were expiated, when the purified souls, after thousands of years perhaps,
passed into their old bodies. Hence it was the great object of the Egyptians to preserve their
mortal bodies after death, and thus arose the custom of embalming them. It is difficult to
compute the number of mummies that have been found in Egypt. If a man was wealthy, it cost
his family as much as one thousand dollars to embalm his body suitably to his rank. The embalmed
bodies of kings were preserved in marble sarcophagi, and hidden in gigantic monuments.

The most repulsive thing in the Egyptian religion was animal-worship. To each deity some animal
was sacred. Thus Apis, the sacred bull of Memphis, was the representative of Osiris; the cow
was sacred to Isis, and to Athor her mother. Sheep were sacred to Kneph, as well as the asp.
Hawks were sacred to Ra; lions were emblems of Horus, wolves of Anubis, hippopotami of Set.
Each town was jealous of the honor of its special favorites among the gods.

"The worst form of this animal worship," says Rawlinson, "was the belief that a deity absolutely
became incarnate in an individual animal, and so remained until the animal's death. Such were
the Apis bulls, of which a succession was maintained at Memphis in the temple of Phtha, or,
according to others, of Osiris. These beasts, maintained at the cost of the priestly communities
in the great temples of their respective cities, were perpetually adored and prayed to by thousands
during their lives, and at their deaths were entombed with the utmost care in huge sarcophagi,
while all Egypt went into mourning on their decease."

Such was the religion of Egypt as known to the Jews,--a complicated polytheism, embracing the
worship of animals as well as the powers of Nature; the belief in the transmigration of souls,
and a sacerdotalism which carried ritualistic ceremonies to the greatest extent known to antiquity,
combined with the exaltation of the priesthood to such a degree as to make priests the real
rulers of the land, reminding us of the spiritual despotism of the Middle Ages. The priests
of Egypt ruled by appealing to the fears of men, thus favoring a degrading superstition. How
far they taught that the various objects of worship were symbols merely of a supreme power,
which they themselves perhaps accepted in their esoteric schools, we do not know. But the priests
believed in a future state of rewards and punishments, and thus recognized the soul to be of
more importance than the material body, and made its welfare paramount over all other interests.
This recognition doubtless contributed to elevate the morals of the people, and to make them
religious, despite their false and degraded views of God, and their disgusting superstitions.

The Jews could not have lived in Egypt four hundred years without being influenced by the popular
belief. Hence in the wilderness, and in the days of kingly rule, the tendency to animal worship
in the shape of the golden calves, their love of ritualistic observances, and their easy submission
to the rule of priests. In one very important thing, however, the Jews escaped a degrading
superstition,--that of the transmigration of souls; and it was perhaps the abhorrence by Moses
of this belief that made him so remarkably silent as to a future state. It is seemingly ignored
in the Old Testament, and hence many have been led to suppose that the Jews did not believe
in it. Certainly the most cultivated and aristocratic sect--the Sadducees--repudiated it altogether;
while the Pharisees held to it. They, however, were products of a later age, and had learned
many things--good and bad--from surrounding nations or in their captivities, which Moses did
not attempt to teach the simple souls that escaped from Egypt.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of the other religions with which the Jews came in contact, and which more or less were in
conflict with their own monotheistic belief, very little is definitely known, since their sacred
books, if they had any, have not come down to us. Our knowledge is mostly confined to monuments,
on which the names of their deities are inscribed, the animals which they worshipped, symbolic
of the powers of Nature, and the kings and priests who officiated in religious ceremonies.
From these we learn or infer that among the Assyrians, Babylonians, and Phoenicians religion
was polytheistic, but without so complicated or highly organized a system as prevailed in Egypt.
Only about twenty deities are alluded to in the monumental records of either nation, and they
are supposed to have represented the sun, the moon, the stars, and various other powers, to
which were delegated by the unseen and occult supreme deity the oversight of this world. They
presided over cities and the elements of Nature, like the rain, the thunder, the winds, the
air, the water. Some abode in heaven, some on the earth, and some in the waters under the earth.
Of all these graven images existed, carved by men's hands,--some in the form of animals, like
the winged bulls of Nineveh. In the very earliest times, before history was written, it is
supposed that the religion of all these nations was monotheistic, and that polytheism was a
development as men became wicked and sensual. The knowledge of the one God was gradually lost,
although an indefinite belief remained that there was a supreme power over all the other gods,
at least a deity of higher rank than the gods of the people, who reigned over them as Lord
of lords.

This deity in Assyria was Asshur. He is recognized by most authorities as Asshur, a son of
Shem and grandson of Noah, who was probably the hero and leader of one of the early migrations,
and, as founder of the Assyrian Empire, gave it its name,--his own being magnified and deified
by his warlike descendants. Assyria was the oldest of the great empires, occupying Mesopotamia,--the
vast plain watered by the Tigris and Euphrates rivers,--with adjacent countries to the north,
west, and east. Its seat was in the northern portion of this region, while that of Babylonia
or Chaldaea, its rival, was in the southern part; and although after many wars freed from the
subjection of Assyria, the institutions of Babylonia, and especially its religion, were very
much the same as those of the elder empire. In Babylonia the chief god was called El, or Il.
In Babylon, although Bab-el, their tutelary god, was at the head of the pantheon, his form
was not represented, nor had he any special temple for his worship. The Assyrian Asshur placed
kings upon their thrones, protected their armies, and directed their expeditions. In speaking
of him it was "Asshur, my Lord." He was also called "King of kings," reigning supreme over
the gods; and sometimes he was called the "Father of the gods." His position in the celestial
hierarchy corresponds with the Zeus of the Greeks, and with the Jupiter of the Romans. He was
represented as a man with a horned cap, carrying a bow and issuing from a winged circle, which
circle was the emblem of ubiquity and eternity. This emblem was also the accompaniment of Assyrian
royalty.

These Assyrian and Babylonian deities had a direct influence on the Jews in later centuries,
because traders on the Tigris pushed their adventurous expeditions from the head of the Persian
Gulf, either around the great peninsula of Arabia, or by land across the deserts, and settled
in Canaan, calling themselves Phoenicians; and it was from the descendants of these enterprising
but morally debased people that the children of Israel, returning from Egypt, received the
most pertinacious influences of idolatrous corruption. In Phoenicia the chief deity was also
called Bel, or Baal, meaning "Lord," the epithet of the one divine being who rules the world,
or the Lord of heaven. The deity of the Egyptian pantheon, with whom Baal most nearly corresponds,
was Ammon, addressed as the supreme God.

Ranking after El in Babylon, Asshur in Assyria, and Baal in Phoenicia,--all shadows of the
same supreme God,--we notice among these Mesopotamians a triad of the great gods, called Anu,
Bel, and Hea. Anu, the primordial chaos; Hea, life and intelligence animating matter; and Bel,
the organizing and creative spirit,--or, as Rawlinson thinks, "the original gods of the earth,
the heavens, and the waters, corresponding in the main with the classical Pluto, Jupiter, and
Neptune, who divided between them the dominion over the visible creation." The god Bel, in
the pantheon of the Babylonians and Assyrians, is the God of gods, and Father of gods, who
made the earth and heaven. His title expresses dominion.

In succession to the gods of this first trio,--Anu, Bel, and Hea,--was another trio, named
Siu, Shamas, and Vul, representing the moon, the sun, and the atmosphere. "In Assyria and Babylon
the moon-god took precedence of the sun-god, since night was more agreeable to the inhabitants
of those hot countries than the day." Hence, Siu was the more popular deity; but Shamas, the
sun, as having most direct reference to physical nature, "the lord of fire," "the ruler of
the day," was the god of battles, going forth with the armies of the king triumphant over enemies.
The worship of this deity was universal, and the kings regarded him as affording them especial
help in war. Vul, the third of this trinity, was the god of the atmosphere, the god of tempests,--the
god who caused the flood which the Assyrian legends recognize. He corresponds with the Jupiter
Tonans of the Romans,--"the prince of the power of the air," destroyer of crops, the scatterer
of the harvest, represented with a flaming sword; but as god of the atmosphere, the giver of
rain, of abundance, "the lord of fecundity," he was beneficent as well as destructive.

All these gods had wives resembling the goddesses in the Greek mythology,--some beneficent,
some cruel; rendering aid to men, or pursuing them with their anger. And here one cannot resist
the impression that the earliest forms of the Greek mythology were derived from the Babylonians
and Phoenicians, and that the Greek poets, availing themselves of the legends respecting them,
created the popular religion of Greece. It is a mooted question whether the Greek civilization
is chiefly derived from Egypt, or from Assyria and Phoenicia,--probably more from these old
monarchies combined than from the original seat of the Aryan race east of the Caspian Sea.
All these ancient monarchies had run out and were old when the Greeks began their settlements
and conquests.

There was still another and inferior class of deities among the Assyrians and Babylonians who
were objects of worship, and were supposed to have great influence on human affairs. These
deities were the planets under different names. The early study of astronomy among the dwellers
on the plains of Babylon and in Mesopotamia gave an astral feature to their religion which
was not prominent in Egypt. These astral deities were Nin, or Bar (the Saturn of the Romans);
and Merodach (Jupiter), the august god, "the eldest son of Heaven," the Lord of battles. This
was the favorite god of Nebuchadnezzar, and epithets of the highest honor were conferred upon
him, as "King of heaven and earth," the "Lord of all beings," etc. Nergal (Mars) was a war
god, his name signifying "the great Hero," "the King of battles." He goes before kings in their
military expeditions, and lends them assistance in the chase. His emblem is the human-headed
winged lion seen at the entrance of royal palaces. Ista (Venus) was the goddess of beauty,
presiding over the loves of both men and animals, and was worshipped with unchaste rites. Nebo
(Mercury) had the charge over learning and culture,--the god of wisdom, who "teaches and instructs."

There were other deities in the Assyrian and Babylonian pantheon whom I need not name, since
they played a comparatively unimportant part in human affairs, like the inferior deities of
the Romans, presiding over dreams, over feasts, over marriage, and the like.

The Phoenicians, like the Assyrians, had their goddesses. Astoreth, or Astarte, represented
the great female productive principle, as Baal did the male. It was originally a name for the
energy of God, on a par with Baal. In one of her aspects she represented the moon; but more
commonly she was the representative of the female principle in Nature, and was connected more
or less with voluptuous rites,--the equivalent of Aphrodite, or Venus. Tanith also was a noted
female deity, and was worshipped at Carthage and Cyprus by the Phoenician settlers. The name
is associated, according to Gesenius, with the Egyptian goddess Nut, and with the Grecian Artemis
the huntress.

An important thing to be observed of these various deities is that they do not uniformly represent
the same power. Thus Baal, the Phoenician sun-god, was made by the Greeks and Romans equivalent
to Zeus, or Jupiter, the god of thunder and storms. Apollo, the sun-god of the Greeks, was
not so powerful as Zeus, the god of the atmosphere; while in Assyria and Phoenicia the sun-god
was the greater deity. In Babylonia, Shamas was a sun-god as well as Bel; and Bel again was
the god of the heavens, like Zeus.

While Zeus was the supreme deity in the Greek mythology, rather than Apollo the sun, it seems
that on the whole the sun was the prominent and the most commonly worshipped deity of all the
Oriental nations, as being the most powerful force in Nature. Behind the sun, however, there
was supposed to be an indefinite creative power, whose form was not represented, worshipped
in no particular temple by the esoteric few who were his votaries, and called the "Father of
all the gods," "the Ancient of days," reigning supreme over them all. This indefinite conception
of the Jehovah of the Hebrews seems to me the last flickering light of the primitive revelation,
shining in the souls of the most enlightened of the Pagan worshippers, including perhaps the
greatest of the monarchs, who were priests as well as kings.

The most distinguishing feature in the worship of all the gods of antiquity, whether among
Egyptians, or Assyrians, or Babylonians, or Phoenicians, or Greeks, or Romans, is that of oblations
and sacrifices. It was even a peculiarity of the old Jewish religion, as well as that of China
and India. These oblations and sacrifices were sometimes offered to the deity, whatever his
form or name, as an expiation for sin, of which the soul is conscious in all ages and countries;
sometimes to obtain divine favor, as in military expeditions, or to secure any object dearest
to the heart, such as health, prosperity, or peace; sometimes to propitiate the deity in order
to avert the calamities following his supposed wrath or vengeance. The oblations were usually
in the form of wine, honey, or the fruits of the earth, which were supposed to be necessary
for the nourishment of the gods, especially in Greece. The sacrifices were generally of oxen,
sheep, and goats, the most valued and precious of human property in primitive times, for those
old heathen never offered to their deities that which cost them nothing, but rather that which
was dearest to them. Sometimes, especially in Phoenicia, human beings were offered in sacrifice,
the most repulsive peculiarity of polytheism. But the instincts of humanity generally kept
men from rites so revolting. Christianity, as one of its distinguishing features, abolished
all forms of outward sacrifice, as superstitious and useless. The sacrifices pleasing to God
are a broken spirit, as revealed to David and Isaiah amid all the ceremonies and ritualism
of Jewish worship, and still more to Paul and Peter when the new dispensation was fully declared.
The only sacrifice which Christ enjoined was self-sacrifice, supreme devotion to a spiritual
and unseen and supreme God, and to his children: as the Christ took upon himself the form of
a man, suffering evil all his days, and finally even an ignominious death, in obedience to
his Father's will, that the world might be saved by his own self-sacrifice.

With sacrifices as an essential feature of all the ancient religions, if we except that of
Persia in the time of Zoroaster, there was need of an officiating priesthood. The priests in
all countries sought to gain power and influence, and made themselves an exclusive caste, more
or less powerful as circumstances favored their usurpations. The priestly caste became a terrible
power in Egypt and India, where the people, it would seem, were most susceptible to religious
impressions, were most docile and most ignorant, and had in constant view the future welfare
of their souls. In China, where there was scarcely any religion at all, this priestly power
was unknown; and it was especially weak among the Greeks, who had no fear of the future, and
who worshipped beauty and grace rather than a spiritual god. Sacerdotalism entered into Christianity
when it became corrupted by the lust of dominion and power, and with great force ruled the
Christian world in times of ignorance and superstition. It is sad to think that the decline
of sacerdotalism is associated with the growth of infidelity and religious indifference, showing
how few worship God in spirit and in truth even in Christian countries. Yet even that reaction
is humanly natural; and as it so surely follows upon epochs of priestcraft, it may be a part
of the divine process of arousing men to the evils of superstition.

Among all nations where polytheism prevailed, idolatry became a natural sequence,--that is,
the worship of animals and of graven images, at first as symbols of the deities that were worshipped,
generally the sun, moon, and stars, and the elements of Nature, like fire, water, and air.
But the symbols of divine power, as degeneracy increased and ignorance set in, were in succession
worshipped as deities, as in India and Africa at the present day. This is the lowest form of
religion, and the most repulsive and degraded which has prevailed in the world,--showing the
enormous difference between the primitive faiths and the worship which succeeded, growing more
and more hideous with the progress of ages, until the fulness of time arrived when God sent
reformers among the debased people, more or less supernaturally inspired, to declare new truth,
and even to revive the knowledge of the old in danger of being utterly lost.

It is a pleasant thing to remember that the religions thus far treated, as known to the Jews,
and by which they were more or less contaminated, have all passed away with the fall of empires
and the spread of divine truth; and they never again can be revived in the countries where
they nourished. Mohammedanism, a monotheistic religion, has taken their place, and driven the
ancient idols to the moles and the bats; and where Mohammedanism has failed to extirpate ancient
idolatries, Christianity in some form has come in and dethroned them forever.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was one form of religion with which the Jews came in contact which was comparatively
pure; and this was the religion of Persia, the loftiest form of all Pagan beliefs.

The Persians were an important branch of the Iranian family. "The Iranians were the dominant
race throughout the entire tract lying between the Suliman mountains and the Pamir steppe on
the one hand, and the great Mesopotamian valley on the other." It was a region of great extremes
of temperature,--the summers being hot, and the winters piercingly cold. A great part of this
region is an arid and frightful desert; but the more favored portions are extremely fertile.
In this country the Iranians settled at a very early period, probably 2500 B.C., about the
time the Hindus emigrated from Central Asia to the banks of the Indus. Both Iranians and Hindus
belonged to the great Aryan or Indo-European race, whose original settlements were on the high
table-lands northeast of Samarkand, in the modern Bokhara, watered by the Oxus, or Amon River.
From these rugged regions east of the Caspian Sea, where the means of subsistence are difficult
to be obtained, the Aryans emigrated to India on the southeast, to Iran on the southwest, to
Europe on the west,--all speaking substantially the same language.

Of those who settled in Iran, the Persians were the most prominent,--a brave, hardy, and adventurous
people, warlike in their habits, and moral in their conduct. They were a pastoral rather than
a nomadic people, and gloried in their horses and cattle. They had great skill as archers and
horsemen, and furnished the best cavalry among the ancients. They lived in fixed habitations,
and their houses had windows and fireplaces; but they were doomed to a perpetual struggle with
a severe and uncertain climate, and a soil which required ceaseless diligence. "The whole plateau
of Iran," says Johnson, "was suggestive of the war of elements,--a country of great contrasts
of fertility and desolation,--snowy ranges of mountains, salt deserts, and fields of beauty
lying in close proximity."

The early Persians are represented as having oval faces, raised features, well-arched eyebrows,
and large dark eyes, now soft as the gazelle's, now flashing with quick insight. Such a people
were extremely receptive of modes and fashions,--the aptest learners as well as the boldest
adventurers; not patient in study nor skilful to invent, but swift to seize and appropriate,
terrible breakers-up of old religious spells. They dissolved the old material civilization
of Cushite and Turanian origin. What passion for vast conquests! "These rugged tribes, devoted
to their chiefs, led by Cyrus from their herds and hunting-grounds to startle the pampered
Lydians with their spare diet and clothing of skins; living on what they could get, strangers
to wine and wassail, schooled in manly exercises, cleanly even to superstition, loyal to age
and filial duties; with a manly pride of personal independence that held a debt the next worst
thing to a lie; their fondness for social graces, their feudal dignities, their chiefs giving
counsel to the king even while submissive to his person, esteeming prowess before praying;
their strong ambition, scorning those who scorned toil." Artaxerxes wore upon his person the
worth of twelve thousand talents, yet shared the hardships of his army in the march, carrying
quiver and shield, leading the way to the steepest places, and stimulating the hearts of his
soldiers by walking twenty-five miles a day.

There was much that is interesting about the ancient Persians. All the old authorities, especially
Herodotus, testify to the comparative purity of their lives, to their love of truth, to their
heroism in war, to the simplicity of their habits, to their industry and thrift in battling
sterility of soil and the elements of Nature, to their love of agricultural pursuits, to kindness
towards women and slaves, and above all other things to a strong personality of character which
implied a powerful will. The early Persians chose the bravest and most capable of their nobles
for kings, and these kings were mild and merciful. Xenophon makes Cyrus the ideal of a king,--the
incarnation of sweetness and light, conducting war with a magnanimity unknown to the ancient
nations, dismissing prisoners, forgiving foes, freeing slaves, and winning all hearts by a
true nobility of nature. He was a reformer of barbarous methods of war, and as pure in morals
as he was powerful in war. In short, he had all those qualities which we admire in the chivalric
heroes of the Middle Ages.

There was developed among this primitive and virtuous people a religion essentially different
from that of Assyria and Egypt, with which is associated the name of Zoroaster, or Zarathushtra.
Who this extraordinary personage was, and when he lived, it is not easy to determine. Some
suppose that he did not live at all. It is most probable that he lived in Bactria from 1000
to 1500 B.C.; but all about him is involved in hopeless obscurity.

The Zend-Avesta, or the sacred books of the Persians, are mostly hymns, prayers, and invocations
addressed to various deities, among whom Ormazd was regarded as supreme. These poems were first
made known to European scholars by Anquetil du Perron, an enthusiastic traveller, a little
more than one hundred years ago, and before the laws of Menu were translated by Sir William
Jones. What we know about the religion of Persia is chiefly derived from the Zend-Avesta. Zend
is the interpretation of the Avesta. The oldest part of these poems is called the Gâthâs, supposed
to have been composed by Zoroaster about the time of Moses.

As all information about Zoroaster personally is unsatisfactory, I proceed to speak of the
religion which he is supposed to have given to the Iranians, according to Dr. Martin Haug,
the great authority on this subject.

Its peculiar feature was dualism,--two original uncreated principles; one good, the other evil.
Both principles were real persons, possessed of will, intelligence, power, consciousness, engaged
from all eternity in perpetual contest. The good power was called Ahura-Mazda, and the evil
power was called Angro-Mainyus. Ahura-Mazda means the "Much-knowing spirit," or the All-wise,
the All-bountiful, who stood at the head of all that is beneficent in the universe,--"the creator
of life," who made the celestial bodies and the earth, and from whom came all good to man and
everlasting happiness. Angro-Mainyus means the black or dark intelligence, the creator of all
that is evil, both moral and physical. He had power to blast the earth with barrenness, to
produce earthquakes and storms, to inflict disease and death, destroy flocks and the fruits
of the earth, excite wars and tumults; in short, to send every form of evil on mankind. Ahura-Mazda
had no control over this Power of evil; all he could do was to baffle him.

These two deities who divided the universe between them had each subordinate spirits or genii,
who did their will, and assisted in the government of the universe,--corresponding to our idea
of angels and demons.

Neither of these supreme deities was represented by the early Iranians under material forms;
but in process of time corruption set in, and Magism, or the worship of the elements of Nature,
became general. The elements which were worshipped were fire, air, earth, and water. Personal
gods, temples, shrines, and images were rejected. But the most common form of worship was that
of fire, in Mithra, the genius of light, early identified with the sun. Hence, practically,
the supreme god of the Persians was the same that was worshipped in Assyria and Egypt and India,--the
sun, under various names; with this difference, that in Persia there were no temples erected
to him, nor were there graven images of him. With the sun was associated a supreme power that
presided over the universe, benignant and eternal. Fire itself in its pure universality was
more to the Iranians than any form. "From the sun," says the Avesta, "are all things sought
that can be desired." To fire, the Persian kings addressed their prayers. Fire, or the sun,
was in the early times a symbol of the supreme Power, rather than the Power itself, since the
sun was created by Ahura-Mazda (Ormazd). It was to him that Zoroaster addressed his prayers,
as recorded in the Gâthâs. "I worship," said he, "the Creator of all things, Ahura-Mazda, full
of light.... Teach thou me, Ahura-Mazda, out of thyself, from heaven by thy mouth, whereby
the world first arose." Again, from the Khorda-Avesta we read: "In the name of God, the giver,
forgiver, rich in love, praise be to the name of Ormazd, who always was, always is, and always
will be; from whom alone is derived rule." From these and other passages we infer that the
religion of the Iranians was monotheistic. And yet the sun also was worshipped under the name
of Mithra. Says Zoroaster: "I invoke Mithra, the lofty, the immortal, the pure, the sun, the
ruler, the eye of Ormazd." It would seem from this that the sun was identified with the Supreme
Being. There was no other power than the sun which was worshipped. There was no multitude of
gods, nothing like polytheism, such as existed in Egypt. The Iranians believed in one supreme,
eternal God, who created all things, beneficent and all-wise; yet this supreme power was worshipped
under the symbol of the sun, although the sun was created by him. This confounding the sun
with a supreme and intelligent being makes the Iranian religion indefinite, and hard to be
comprehended; but compared with the polytheism of Egypt and Babylon, it is much higher and
purer. We see in it no degrading rites, no offensive sacerdotalism, no caste, no worship of
animals or images; all is spiritual and elevated, but little inferior to the religion of the
Hebrews. In the Zend-Avesta we find no doctrines; but we do find prayers and praises and supplication
to a Supreme Being. In the Vedas--the Hindu books--the powers of Nature are gods; in the Avesta
they are spirits, or servants of the Supreme.

"The main difference between the Vedic and Avestan religions is that in the latter the Vedic
worship of natural powers and phenomena is superseded by a more ethical and personal interest.
Ahura-Mazda (Ormazd), the living wisdom, replaces Indra, the lightning-god. In Iran there grew
up, what India never saw, a consciousness of world-purpose, ethical and spiritual; a reference
of the ideal to the future rather than the present; a promise of progress; and the idea that
the law of the universe means the final deliverance of good from evil, and its eternal triumph."
[1]

[Footnote 1: Samuel Johnson's Religion of Persia.]

The loftiness which modern scholars like Haug, Lenormant, and Spiegel see in the Zend-Avesta
pertains more directly to the earlier portions of these sacred writings, attributable to Zoroaster,
called the Gâthâs. But in the course of time the Avesta was subjected to many additions and
interpretations, called the Zend, which show degeneracy. A world of myth and legend is crowded
into liturgical fragments. The old Bactrian tongue in which the Avesta was composed became
practically a dead language. There entered into the Avesta old Chaldaean traditions. It would
be strange if the pure faith of Zoroaster should not be corrupted after Persia had conquered
Babylon, and even after its alliance with Media, where the Magi had great reputation for knowledge.
And yet even with the corrupting influence of the superstitions of Babylon, to say nothing
of Media, the Persian conquerors did not wholly forget the God of their fathers in their old
Bactrian home. And it is probable that one reason why Cyrus and Darius treated the Jews with
so much kindness and generosity was the sympathy they felt for the monotheism of the Jewish
religion in contrast with the polytheism and idolatry of the conquered Babylonians. It is not
unreasonable to suppose that both the Persians and Jews worshipped substantially the one God
who made the heaven and the earth, notwithstanding the dualism which entered into the Persian
religion, and the symbolic worship of fire which is the most powerful agent in Nature; and
it is considered by many that from the Persians the Jews received, during their Captivity,
their ideas concerning a personal Devil, or Power of Evil, of which no hint appears in the
Law or the earlier Prophets. It would certainly seem to be due to that monotheism which modern
scholars see behind the dualism of Persia, as an elemental principle of the old religion of
Iran, that the Persians were the noblest people of Pagan antiquity, and practised the highest
morality known in the ancient world. Virtue and heroism went hand in hand; and both virtue
and heroism were the result of their religion. But when the Persians became intoxicated with
the wealth and power they acquired on the fall of Babylon, then their degeneracy was rapid,
and their faith became obscured. Had it been the will of Providence that the Greeks should
have contended with the Persians under the leadership of Cyrus,--the greatest Oriental conqueror
known in history,--rather than under Xerxes, then even an Alexander might have been baffled.
The great mistake of the Persian monarchs in their degeneracy was in trusting to the magnitude
of their armies rather than in their ancient discipline and national heroism. The consequence
was a panic, which would not have taken place under Cyrus, whenever they met the Greeks in
battle. It was a panic which dispersed the Persian hosts in the fatal battle of Arbela, and
made Alexander the master of western Asia. But degenerate as the Persians became, they rallied
under succeeding dynasties, and in Artaxerxes II. and Chosroes the Romans found, in their declining
glories, their most formidable enemies.

Though the brightness of the old religion of Zoroaster ceased to shine after the Persian conquests,
and religious rites fell into the hands of the Magi, yet it is the only Oriental religion which
entered into Christianity after its magnificent triumph, unless we trace early monasticism
to the priests of India. Christianity had a hard battle with Gnosticism and Manichaeism,--both
of Persian origin,--and did not come out unscathed. No Grecian system of philosophy, except
Platonism, entered into the Christian system so influentially as the disastrous Manichaean
heresy, which Augustine combated. The splendid mythology of the Greeks, as well as the degrading
polytheism of Egypt, Assyria, and Phoenicia, passed away before the power of the cross; but
Persian speculations remained. Even Origen, the greatest scholar of Christian antiquity, was
tainted with them. And the mighty myths of the origin of evil, which perplexed Zoroaster, still
remain unsolved; but the belief of the final triumph of good over evil is common to both Christians
and the disciples of the Bactrian sage.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUTHORITIES.

Rawlinson's Egypt and Babylon; History of Babylonia, by A.H. Sayce; Smith's Dictionary of the
Bible; Rawlinson's Herodotus; George Smith's History of Babylonia; Lenormant's Manuel d'Histoire
Ancienne; Layard's Nineveh and Babylon; Journal of Royal Asiatic Society; Heeren's Asiatic
Nations; Dr. Pusey's Lectures on Daniel; Birch's Egypt from the Earliest Times; Brugsch's History
of Egypt; Records of the Past; Rawlinson's History of Ancient Egypt; Wilkinson's Ancient Egyptians;
Sayce's Ancient Empires of the East; Rawlinson's Religions of the Ancient World; James Freeman
Clarke's Ten Great Religions; Religion of Ancient Egypt, by P. Le Page Renouf; Moffat's Comparative
History of Religions; Bunsen's Egypt's Place in History; Persia, from the Earliest Period,
by W. S. W. Vaux; Johnson's Oriental Religions; Haug's Essays; Spiegel's Avesta.

The above are the more prominent authorities; but the number of books on ancient religions
is very large.

RELIGIONS OF INDIA.

BRAHMANISM AND BUDDHISM.

That form of ancient religion which has of late excited the most interest is Buddhism. An inquiry
into its characteristics is especially interesting, since so large a part of the human race--nearly
five hundred millions out of the thirteen hundred millions--still profess to embrace the doctrines
which were taught by Buddha, although his religion has become so corrupted that his original
teachings are nearly lost sight of. The same may be said of the doctrines of Confucius. The
religions of ancient Egypt, Assyria, and Greece have utterly passed away, and what we have
had to say of these is chiefly a matter of historic interest, as revealing the forms assumed
by the human search for a supernatural Ruler when moulded by human ambitions, powers, and indulgence
in the "lust of the eye and the pride of life," rather than by aspirations toward the pure
and the spiritual.

Buddha was the great reformer of the religious system of the Hindus, although he lived nearly
fifteen hundred or two thousand years after the earliest Brahmanical ascendency. But before
we can appreciate his work and mission, we must examine the system he attempted to reform,
even as it is impossible to present the Protestant Reformation without first considering mediaeval
Catholicism before the time of Luther. It was the object of Buddha to break the yoke of the
Brahmans, and to release his countrymen from the austerities, the sacrifices, and the rigid
sacerdotalism which these ancient priests imposed, without essentially subverting ancient religious
ideas. He was a moralist and reformer, rather than the founder of a religion.

Brahmanism is one of the oldest religions of the world. It was flourishing in India at a period
before history was written. It was coeval with the religion of Egypt in the time of Abraham,
and perhaps at a still earlier date. But of its earliest form and extent we know nothing, except
from the sacred poems of the Hindus called the Vedas, written in Sanskrit probably fifteen
hundred years before Christ,--for even the date of the earliest of the Vedas is unknown. Fifty
years ago we could not have understood the ancient religions of India. But Sir William Jones
in the latter part of the last century, a man of immense erudition and genius for the acquisition
of languages, at that time an English judge in India, prepared the way for the study of Sanskrit,
the literary language of ancient India, by the translation and publication of the laws of Menu.
He was followed in his labors by the Schlegels of Germany, and by numerous scholars and missionaries.
Within fifty years this ancient and beautiful language has been so perseveringly studied that
we know something of the people by whom it was once spoken,--even as Egyptologists have revealed
something of ancient Egypt by interpreting the hieroglyphics; and Chaldaean investigators have
found stores of knowledge in the Babylonian bricks.

The Sanskrit, as now interpreted, reveals to us the meaning of those poems called Vedas, by
which we are enabled to understand the early laws and religion of the Hindus. It is poetry,
not history, which makes this revelation, for the Hindus have no history farther back than
five or six hundred years before Christ. It is from Homer and Hesiod that we get an idea of
the gods of Greece, not from Herodotus or Xenophon.

From comparative philology, a new science, of which Prof. Max Müller is one of the greatest
expounders, we learn that the roots of various European languages, as well as of the Latin
and Greek, are substantially the same as those of the Sanskrit spoken by the Hindus thirty-five
hundred years ago, from which it is inferred that the Hindus were a people of like remote origin
with the Greeks, the Italic races (Romans, Italians, French), the Slavic races (Russian, Polish,
Bohemian), the Teutonic races of England and the Continent, and the Keltic races. These are
hence alike called the Indo-European races; and as the same linguistic roots are found in their
languages and in the Zend-Avesta, we infer that the ancient Persians, or inhabitants of Iran,
belonged to the same great Aryan race.

The original seat of this race, it is supposed, was in the high table-lands of Central Asia,
in or near Bactria, east of the Caspian Sea, and north and west of the Himalaya Mountains.
This country was so cold and sterile and unpropitious that winter predominated, and it was
difficult to support life. But the people, inured to hardship and privation, were bold, hardy,
adventurous, and enterprising.

It is a most interesting process, as described by the philologists, which has enabled them,
by tracing the history of words through their various modifications in different living languages,
to see how the lines of growth converge as they are followed back to the simple Aryan roots.
And there, getting at the meanings of the things or thoughts the words originally expressed,
we see revealed, in the reconstruction of a language that no longer exists, the material objects
and habits of thought and life of a people who passed away before history began,--so imperishable
are the unconscious embodiments of mind, even in the airy and unsubstantial forms of unwritten
speech! By this process, then, we learn that the Aryans were a nomadic people, and had made
some advance in civilization. They lived in houses which were roofed, which had windows and
doors. Their common cereal was barley, the grain of cold climates. Their wealth was in cattle,
and they had domesticated the cow, the sheep, the goat, the horse, and the dog. They used yokes,
axes, and ploughs. They wrought in various metals; they spun and wove, navigated rivers in
sailboats, and fought with bows, lances, and swords. They had clear perceptions of the rights
of property, which were based on land. Their morals were simple and pure, and they had strong
natural affections. Polygamy was unknown among them. They had no established sacerdotal priesthood.
They worshipped the powers of Nature, especially fire, the source of light and heat, which
they so much needed in their dreary land. Authorities differ as to their primeval religion,
some supposing that it was monotheistic, and others polytheistic, and others again pantheistic.

Most of the ancient nations were controlled more or less by priests, who, as their power increased,
instituted a caste to perpetuate their influence. Whether or not we hold the primitive religion
of mankind to have been a pure theism, directly revealed by God,--which is my own conviction,--it
is equally clear that the form of religion recorded in the earliest written records of poetry
or legend was a worship of the sun and moon and planets. I believe this to have been a corruption
of original theism; many think it to have been a stage of upward growth in the religious sense
of primitive man. In all the ancient nations the sun-god was a prominent deity, as the giver
of heat and light, and hence of fertility to the earth. The emblem of the sun was fire, and
hence fire was deified, especially among the Hindus, under the name of Agni,--the Latin ignis.

Fire, caloric, or heat in some form was, among the ancient nations, supposed to be the animus
mundi. In Egypt, as we have seen, Osiris, the principal deity, was a form of Ra, the sun-god.
In Assyria, Asshur, the substitute for Ra, was the supreme deity. In India we find Mitra, and
in Persia Mithra, the sun-god, among the prominent deities, as Helios was among the Greeks,
and Phoebus Apollo among the Romans. The sun was not always the supreme divinity, but invariably
held one of the highest places in the Pagan pantheon.

It is probable that the religion of the common progenitors of the Hindus, Persians, Greeks,
Romans, Kelts, Teutons, and Slavs, in their hard and sterile home in Central Asia, was a worship
of the powers of Nature verging toward pantheism, although the earliest of the Vedas representing
the ancient faith seem to recognize a supreme power and intelligence--God--as the common father
of the race, to whom prayers and sacrifices were devoutly offered. Freeman Clarke quotes from
Müller's "Ancient Sanskrit Literature" one of the hymns in which the unity of God is most distinctly
recognized:--

"In the beginning there arose the Source of golden light. He was the only Lord of all that
is. He established the earth and sky. Who is the God to whom we shall offer our sacrifices?
It is he who giveth life, who giveth strength, who governeth all men; through whom heaven was
established, and the earth created."

But if the Supreme God whom we adore was recognized by this ancient people, he was soon lost
sight of in the multiplied manifestations of his power, so that Rawlinson thinks[2] that when
the Aryan race separated in their various migrations, which resulted in what we call the Indo-European
group of races, there was no conception of a single supreme power, from whom man and nature
have alike their origin, but Nature-worship, ending in an extensive polytheism,--as among the
Assyrians and Egyptians.

[Footnote 2: Religions of the Ancient World, p. 105.]

As to these Aryan migrations, we do not know when a large body crossed the Himalaya Mountains,
and settled on the banks of the Indus, but probably it was at least two thousand years before
Christ. Northern India had great attractions to those hardy nomadic people, who found it so
difficult to get a living during the long winters of their primeval home. India was a country
of fruits and flowers, with an inexhaustible soil, favorable to all kinds of production, where
but little manual labor was required,--a country abounding in every kind of animals, and every
kind of birds; a land of precious stones and minerals, of hills and valleys, of majestic rivers
and mountains, with a beautiful climate and a sunny sky. These Aryan conquerors drove before
them the aboriginal inhabitants, who were chiefly Mongolians, or reduced them to a degrading
vassalage. The conquering race was white, the conquered was dark, though not black; and this
difference of color was one of the original causes of Indian caste.

It was some time after the settlement of the Aryans on the banks of the Indus and the Ganges
before the Vedas were composed by the poets, who as usual gave form to religious belief, as
they did in Persia and Greece. These poems, or hymns, are pantheistic. "There is no recognition,"
says Monier Williams, "of a Supreme God disconnected with the worship of Nature." There was
a vague and indefinite worship of the Infinite under various names, such as the sun, the sky,
the air, the dawn, the winds, the storms, the waters, the rivers, which alike charmed and terrified,
and seemed to be instinct with life and power. God was in all things, and all things in God;
but there was no idea of providential agency or of personality.

In the Vedic hymns the number of gods is not numerous, only thirty-three. The chief of these
were Varuna, the sky; Mitra, the sun; and Indra, the storm: after these, Agni, fire; and Soma,
the moon. The worship of these divinities was originally simple, consisting of prayer, praise,
and offerings. There were no temples and no imposing sacerdotalism, although the priests were
numerous. "The prayers and praises describe the wisdom, power, and goodness of the deity addressed,"
[3] and when the customary offerings had been made, the worshipper prayed for food, life, health,
posterity, wealth, protection, happiness, whatever the object was,--generally for outward prosperity
rather than for improvement in character, or for forgiveness of sin, peace of mind, or power
to resist temptation. The offerings to the gods were propitiatory, in the form of victims,
or libations of some juice. Nor did these early Hindus take much thought of a future life.
There is nothing in the Rig-Veda of a belief in the transmigration of souls[4], although the
Vedic bards seem to have had some hope of immortality. "He who gives alms," says one poet,
"goes to the highest place in heaven: he goes to the gods[5].... Where there is eternal light,
in the world where the sun is placed,--in that immortal, imperishable world, place me, O Soma!
... Where there is happiness and delight, where joy and pleasures reside, where the desires
of our heart are attained, there make me immortal."

[Footnote 3: Rawlinson, p. 121.] [Footnote 4: Wilson: Rig-Veda, vol. iii. p. 170.] [Footnote
5: Müller: Chips from a German Workshop, vol. i. p. 46.]

In the oldest Vedic poems there were great simplicity and joyousness, without allusion to those
rites, ceremonies, and sacrifices which formed so prominent a part of the religion of India
at a later period.

Four hundred years after the Rig-Veda was composed we come to the Brahmanic age, when the laws
of Menu were written, when the Aryans were living in the valley of the Ganges, and the caste
system had become national. The supreme deity is no longer one of the powers of Nature, like
Mitra or Indra, but according to Menu he is Brahm, or Brahma,--"an eternal, unchangeable, absolute
being, the soul of all beings, who, having willed to produce various beings from his own divine
substance, created the waters and placed in them a productive seed. The seed became an egg,
and in that egg he was born, but sat inactive for a year, when he caused the egg to divide
itself; and from its two divisions he framed the heaven above, and the earth beneath. From
the supreme soul Brahma drew forth mind, existing substantially, though unperceived by the
senses; and before mind, the reasoning power, he produced consciousness, the internal monitor;
and before them both he produced the great principle of the soul.... The soul is, in its substance,
from Brahma himself, and is destined finally to be resolved into him. The soul, then, is simply
an emanation from Brahma; but it will not return unto him at death necessarily, but must migrate
from body to body, until it is purified by profound abstraction and emancipated from all desires."

This is the substance of the Hindu pantheism as taught by the laws of Menu. It accepts God,
but without personality or interference with the world's affairs,--not a God to be loved, scarcely
to be feared, but a mere abstraction of the mind.

The theology which is thus taught in the Brahmanical Vedas, it would seem, is the result of
lofty questionings and profound meditation on the part of the Indian sages or priests, rather
than the creation of poets.

In the laws of Menu, intended to exalt the Brahmanical caste, we read, as translated by Sir
William Jones:--

"To a man contaminated by sensuality, neither the Vedas, nor liberality, nor sacrifices, nor
strict observances, nor pious austerities, ever procure felicity.... Let not a man be proud
of his rigorous devotion; let him not, having sacrificed, utter a falsehood; having made a
donation, let him never proclaim it.... By falsehood the sacrifice becomes vain; by pride the
merit of devotion is lost.... Single is each man born, single he dies, single he receives the
reward of the good, and single the punishment of his evil, deeds.... By forgiveness of injuries
the learned are purified; by liberality, those who have neglected their duty; by pious meditation,
those who have secret thoughts; by devout austerity, those who best know the Vedas.... Bodies
are cleansed by water; the mind is purified by truth; the vital spirit, by theology and devotion;
the understanding, by clear knowledge.... A faithful wife who wishes to attain in heaven the
mansion of her husband, must do nothing unkind to him, be he living or dead; let her not, when
her lord is deceased, even pronounce the name of another man; let her continue till death,
forgiving all injuries, performing harsh duties, avoiding every sensual pleasure, and cheerfully
practising the incomparable rules of virtue.... The soul itself is its own witness, the soul
itself is its own refuge; offend not thy conscious soul, the supreme internal witness of man,
... O friend to virtue, the Supreme Spirit, which is the same as thyself, resides in thy bosom
perpetually, and is an all-knowing inspector of thy goodness or wickedness."

Such were the truths uttered on the banks of the Ganges one thousand years before Christ. But
with these views there is an exaltation of the Brahmanical or sacerdotal life, hard to be distinguished
from the recognition of divine qualities. "From his high birth," says Menu, "a Brahman is an
object of veneration, even to deities." Hence, great things are expected of him; his food must
be roots and fruit, his clothing of bark fibres; he must spend his time in reading the Vedas;
he is to practise austerities by exposing himself to heat and cold; he is to beg food but once
a day; he must be careful not to destroy the life of the smallest insect; he must not taste
intoxicating liquors. A Brahman who has thus mortified his body by these modes is exalted into
the divine essence. This was the early creed of the Brahman before corruption set in. And in
these things we see a striking resemblance to the doctrines of Buddha. Had there been no corruption
of Brahmanism, there would have been no Buddhism; for the principles of Buddhism, were those
of early Brahmanism.

But Brahmanism became corrupted. Like the Mosaic Law, under the sedulous care of the sacerdotal
orders it ripened into a most burdensome ritualism. The Brahmanical caste became tyrannical,
exacting, and oppressive. With the supposed sacredness of his person, and with the laws made
in his favor, the Brahman became intolerable to the people, who were ground down by sacrifices,
expiatory offerings, and wearisome and minute ceremonies of worship. Caste destroyed all ideas
of human brotherhood; it robbed the soul of its affections and its aspirations. Like the Pharisees
in the time of Jesus, the Brahmans became oppressors of the people. As in Pagan Egypt and in
Christian mediaeval Europe, the priests held the keys of heaven and hell; their power was more
than Druidical.

But the Brahman, when true to the laws of Menu, led in one sense a lofty life. Nor can we despise
a religion which recognized the value and immortality of the soul, a state of future rewards
and punishments, though its worship was encumbered by rites, ceremonies, and sacrifices. It
was spiritual in its essential peculiarities, having reference to another world rather than
to this, which is more than we can say of the religion of the Greeks; it was not worldly in
its ends, seeking to save the soul rather than to pamper the body; it had aspirations after
a higher life; it was profoundly reverential, recognizing a supreme intelligence and power,
indefinitely indeed, but sincerely,--not an incarnated deity like the Zeus of the Greeks, but
an infinite Spirit, pervading the universe. The pantheism of the Brahmans was better than the
godless materialism of the Chinese. It aspired to rise to a knowledge of God as the supremest
wisdom and grandest attainment of mortal man. It made too much of sacrifices; but sacrifices
were common to all the ancient religions except the Persian.

     "He who through knowledge or religious acts
     Henceforth attains to immortality,
     Shall first present his body, Death, to thee."

Whether human sacrifices were offered in India when the Vedas were composed we do not know,
but it is believed to be probable. The oldest form of sacrifice was the offering of food to
the deity. Dr. H. C. Trumbull, in his work on "The Blood Covenant," thinks that the origin
of animal sacrifices was like that of circumcision,--a pouring out of blood (the universal,
ancient symbol of life) as a sign of devotion to the deity; and the substitution of animals
was a natural and necessary mode of making this act of consecration a frequent and continuing
one. This presents a nobler view of the whole sacrificial system than the common one. Yet doubtless
the latter soon prevailed; for following upon the devoted life-offerings to the Divine Friend,
came propitiatory rites to appease divine anger or gain divine favor. Then came in the natural
human self-seeking of the sacerdotal class, for the multiplication of sacrifices tended to
exalt the priesthood, and thus to perpetuate caste.

Again, the Brahmans, if practising austerities to weaken sensual desires, like the monks of
Syria and Upper Egypt, were meditative and intellectual; they evolved out of their brains whatever
was lofty in their system of religion and philosophy. Constant and profound meditation on the
soul, on God, and on immortality was not without its natural results. They explored the world
of metaphysical speculation. There is scarcely an hypothesis advanced by philosophers in ancient
or modern times, which may not be found in the Brahmanical writings. "We find in the writings
of these Hindus materialism, atomism, pantheism, Pyrrhonism, idealism. They anticipated Plato,
Kant, and Hegel. They could boast of their Spinozas and their Humes long before Alexander dreamed
of crossing the Indus. From them the Pythagoreans borrowed a great part of their mystical philosophy,
of their doctrine of transmigration of souls, and the unlawfulness of eating animal food. From
them Aristotle learned the syllogism.... In India the human mind exhausted itself in attempting
to detect the laws which regulate its operation, before the philosophers of Greece were beginning
to enter the precincts of metaphysical inquiry." This intellectual subtlety, acumen, and logical
power the Brahmans never lost. To-day the Christian missionary finds them his superiors in
the sports of logical tournaments, whenever the Brahman condescends to put forth his powers
of reasoning.

Brahmanism carried idealism to the extent of denying any reality to sense or matter, declaring
that sense is a delusion. It sought to leave the soul emancipated from desire, from a material
body, in a state which according to Indian metaphysics is being, but not existence. Desire,
anger, ignorance, evil thoughts are consumed by the fire of knowledge.

But I will not attempt to explain the ideal pantheism which Brahmanical philosophers substituted
for the Nature-worship taught in the earlier Vedas. This proved too abstract for the people;
and the Brahmans, in the true spirit of modern Jesuitism, wishing to accommodate their religion
to the people,--who were in bondage to their tyranny, and who have ever been inclined to sensuous
worship,--multiplied their sacrifices and sacerdotal rites, and even permitted a complicated
polytheism. Gradually piety was divorced from morality. Siva and Vishnu became worshipped,
as well as Brahma and a host of other gods unknown to the earlier Vedas.

In the sixth century before Christ, the corruption of society had become so flagrant under
the teachings and government of the Brahmans, that a reform was imperatively needed. "The pride
of race had put an impassable barrier between the Aryan-Hindus and the conquered aborigines,
while the pride of both had built up an equally impassable barrier between the different classes
among the Aryan people themselves." The old childlike joy in life, so manifest in the Vedas,
had died away. A funereal gloom hung over the land; and the gloomiest people of all were the
Brahmans themselves, devoted to a complicated ritual of ceremonial observances, to needless
and cruel sacrifices, and a repulsive theology. The worship of Nature had degenerated into
the worship of impure divinities. The priests were inflated with a puerile but sincere belief
in their own divinity, and inculcated a sense of duty which was nothing else than a degrading
slavery to their own caste.

Under these circumstances Buddhism arose as a protest against Brahmanism. But it was rather
an ethical than a religious movement; it was an attempt to remove misery from the world, and
to elevate ordinary life by a reform of morals. It was effected by a prince who goes by the
name of Buddha,--the "Enlightened,"--who was supposed by his later followers to be an incarnation
of Deity, miraculously conceived, and sent into the world to save men. He was nearly contemporary
with Confucius, although the Buddhistic doctrines were not introduced into China until about
two hundred years before the Christian era. He is supposed to have belonged to a warlike tribe
called Sâkyas, of great reputed virtue, engaged in agricultural pursuits, who had entered northern
India and made a permanent settlement several hundred years before. The name by which the reformer
is generally known is Gautama, borrowed by the Sâkyas after their settlement in India from
one of the ancient Vedic bard-families. The foundation of our knowledge of Sâkya Buddha is
from a Life of him by Asvaghosha, in the first century of our era; and this life is again founded
on a legendary history, not framed after any Indian model, but worked out among the nations
in the north of India.

The Life of Buddha by Asvaghosha is a poetical romance of nearly ten thousand lines. It relates
the miraculous conception of the Indian sage, by the descent of a spirit on his mother, Maya,--a
woman of great purity of mind. The child was called Siddârtha, or "the perfection of all things."
His father ruled a considerable territory, and was careful to conceal from the boy, as he grew
up, all knowledge of the wickedness and misery of the world. He was therefore carefully educated
within the walls of the palace, and surrounded with every luxury, but not allowed even to walk
or drive in the royal gardens for fear he might see misery and sorrow. A beautiful girl was
given to him in marriage, full of dignity and grace, with whom he lived in supreme happiness.

At length, as his mind developed and his curiosity increased to see and know things and people
beyond the narrow circle to which he was confined, he obtained permission to see the gardens
which surrounded the palace. His father took care to remove everything in his way which could
suggest misery and sorrow; but a deva, or angel, assumed the form of an aged man, and stood
beside his path, apparently struggling for life, weak and oppressed. This was a new sight to
the prince, who inquired of his charioteer what kind of a man it was. Forced to reply, the
charioteer told him that this infirm old man had once been young, sportive, beautiful, and
full of every enjoyment.

On hearing this, the prince sank into profound meditation, and returned to the palace sad and
reflective; for he had learned that the common lot of man is sad,--that no matter how beautiful,
strong, and sportive a boy is, the time will come, in the course of Nature, when this boy will
be wrinkled, infirm, and helpless. He became so miserable and dejected on this discovery that
his father, to divert his mind, arranged other excursions for him; but on each occasion a deva
contrived to appear before him in the form of some disease or misery. At last he saw a dead
man carried to his grave, which still more deeply agitated him, for he had not known that this
calamity was the common lot of all men. The same painful impression was made on him by the
death of animals, and by the hard labors and privations of poor people. The more he saw of
life as it was, the more he was overcome by the sight of sorrow and hardship on every side.
He became aware that youth, vigor, and strength of life in the end fulfilled the law of ultimate
destruction. While meditating on this sad reality beneath a flowering Jambu tree, where he
was seated in the profoundest contemplation, a deva, transformed into a religious ascetic,
came to him and said, "I am a Shaman. Depressed and sad at the thought of age, disease, and
death, I have left my home to seek some way of rescue; yet everywhere I find these evils,--all
things hasten to decay. Therefore I seek that happiness which is only to be found in that which
never perishes, that never knew a beginning, that looks with equal mind on enemy and friend,
that heeds not wealth nor beauty,--the happiness to be found in solitude, in some dell free
from molestation, all thought about the world destroyed."

This embodies the soul of Buddhism, its elemental principle,--to escape from a world of misery
and death; to hide oneself in contemplation in some lonely spot, where indifference to passing
events is gradually acquired, where life becomes one grand negation, and where the thoughts
are fixed on what is eternal and imperishable, instead of on the mortal and transient.

The prince, who was now about thirty years of age, after this interview with the supposed ascetic,
firmly resolved himself to become a hermit, and thus attain to a higher life, and rise above
the misery which he saw around him on every hand. So he clandestinely and secretly escapes
from his guarded palace; lays aside his princely habits and ornaments; dismisses all attendants,
and even his horse; seeks the companionship of Brahmans, and learns all their penances and
tortures. Finding a patient trial of this of no avail for his purpose, he leaves the Brahmans,
and repairs to a quiet spot by the banks of a river, and for six years practises the most severe
fasting and profound meditation. This was the form which piety had assumed in India from time
immemorial, under the guidance of the Brahmans; for Siddârtha as yet is not the "enlightened,"--he
is only an inquirer after that saving knowledge which will open the door of a divine felicity,
and raise him above a world of disease and death.

Siddârtha's rigorous austerities, however, do not open this door of saving truth. His body
is wasted, and his strength fails; he is near unto death. The conviction fastens on his lofty
and inquiring mind that to arrive at the end he seeks he must enter by some other door than
that of painful and useless austerities, and hence that the teachings of the Brahmans are fundamentally
wrong. He discovers that no amount of austerities will extinguish desire, or produce ecstatic
contemplation. In consequence of these reflections a great change comes over him, which is
the turning-point of his history. He resolves to quit his self-inflicted torments as of no
avail. He meets a shepherd's daughter, who offers him food out of compassion for his emaciated
and miserable condition. The rich rice milk, sweet and perfumed, restores his strength. He
renounces asceticism, and wanders to a spot more congenial to his changed views and condition.

Siddârtha's full enlightenment, however, has not yet come. Under the shade of the Bôdhi tree
he devotes himself again to religious contemplation, and falls into rapt ecstasies. He remains
a while in peaceful quiet; the morning sunbeams, the dispersing mists, and lovely flowers seem
to pay tribute to him. He passes through successive stages of ecstasy, and suddenly upon his
opened mind bursts the knowledge of his previous births in different forms; of the causes of
re-birth,--ignorance (the root of evil) and unsatisfied desires; and of the way to extinguish
desires by right thinking, speaking, and living, not by outward observance of forms and ceremonies.
He is emancipated from the thraldom of those austerities which have formed the basis of religious
life for generations unknown, and he resolves to teach.

Buddha travels slowly to the sacred city of Benares, converting by the way even Brahmans themselves.
He claims to have reached perfect wisdom. He is followed by disciples, for there was something
attractive and extraordinary about him; his person was beautiful and commanding. While he shows
that painful austerities will not produce wisdom, he also teaches that wisdom is not reached
by self-indulgence; that there is a middle path between penance and pleasures, even temperance,---the
use, but not abuse, of the good things of earth. In his first sermon he declares that sorrow
is in self; therefore to get rid of sorrow is to get rid of self. The means to this end is
to forget self in deeds of mercy and kindness to others; to crucify demoralizing desires; to
live in the realm of devout contemplation.

The active life of Buddha now begins, and for fifty years he travels from place to place as
a teacher, gathers around him disciples, frames rules for his society, and brings within his
community both the rich and poor. He even allows women to enter it. He thus matures his system,
which is destined to be embraced by so large a part of the human race, and finally dies at
the age of eighty, surrounded by reverential followers, who see in him an incarnation of the Deity.

Thus Buddha devoted his life to the welfare of men, moved by an exceeding tenderness and pity
for the objects of misery which he beheld on every side. He attempted to point out a higher
life, by which sorrow would be forgotten. He could not prevent sorrow culminating in old age,
disease, and death; but he hoped to make men ignore their miseries, and thus rise above them
to a beatific state of devout contemplation and the practice of virtues, for which he laid
down certain rules and regulations.

It is astonishing how the new doctrines spread,--from India to China, from China to Japan and
Ceylon, until Eastern Asia was filled with pagodas, temples, and monasteries to attest his
influence; some eighty-five thousand existed in China alone. Buddha probably had as many converts
in China as Confucius himself. The Buddhists from time to time were subjected to great persecution
from the emperors of China, in which their sacred books were destroyed; and in India the Brahmans
at last regained their power, and expelled Buddhism from the country. In the year 845 A.D.
two hundred and sixty thousand monks and nuns were made to return to secular life in China,
being regarded as mere drones,--lazy and useless members of the community. But the policy of
persecution was reversed by succeeding emperors. In the thirteenth century there were in China
nearly fifty thousand Buddhist temples and two hundred and thirteen thousand monks; and these
represented but a fraction of the professed adherents of the religion. Under the present dynasty
the Buddhists are proscribed, but still they flourish.

Now, what has given to the religion of Buddha such an extraordinary attraction for the people
of Eastern Asia?

Buddhism has a twofold aspect,--practical and speculative. In its most definite form it was
a moral and philanthropic movement,--the reaction against Brahmanism, which had no humanity,
and which was as repulsive and oppressive as Roman Catholicism was when loaded down with ritualism
and sacerdotal rites, when Europe was governed by priests, when churches were damp, gloomy
crypts, before the tall cathedrals arose in their artistic beauty.

From a religious and philosophical point of view, Buddhism at first did not materially differ
from Brahmanism. The same dreamy pietism, the same belief in the transmigration of souls, the
same pantheistic ideas of God and Nature, the same desire for rest and final absorption in
the divine essence characterized both. In both there was a certain principle of faith, which
was a feeling of reverence rather than the recognition of the unity and personality and providence
of God. The prayer of the Buddhist was a yearning for deliverance from sorrow, a hope of final
rest; but this was not to be attained until desires and passions were utterly suppressed in
the soul, which could be effected only by prayer, devout meditations, and a rigorous self-discipline.
In order to be purified and fitted for Nirvana the soul, it was supposed, must pass through
successive stages of existence in mortal forms, without conscious recollection,--innumerable
births and deaths, with sorrow and disease. And the final state of supreme blessedness, the
ending of the long and weary transmigration, would be attained only with the extinction of
all desires, even the instinctive desire for existence.

Buddha had no definite ideas of the deity, and the worship of a personal God is nowhere to
be found in his teachings, which exposed him to the charge of atheism. He even supposed that
gods were subject to death, and must return to other forms of life before they obtained final
rest in Nirvana. Nirvana means that state which admits of neither birth nor death, where there
is no sorrow or disease,--an impassive state of existence, absorption in the Spirit of the
Universe. In the Buddhist catechism Nirvana is defined as the "total cessation of changes;
a perfect rest; the absence of desire, illusion, and sorrow; the total obliteration of everything
that goes to make up the physical man." This theory of re-births, or transmigration of souls,
is very strange and unnatural to our less imaginative and subtile Occidental minds; but to
the speculative Orientals it is an attractive and reasonable belief. They make the "spirit"
the immortal part of man, the "soul" being its emotional embodiment, its "spiritual body,"
whose unsatisfied desires cause its birth and re-birth into the fleshly form of the physical
"body,"--a very brief and temporary incarnation. When by the progressive enlightenment of the
spirit its longings and desires have been gradually conquered, it no longer needs or has embodiment
either of soul or of body; so that, to quote Elliott Coues in Olcott's "Buddhist Catechism,"
"a spirit in a state of conscious formlessness, subject to no further modification by embodiment,
yet in full knowledge of its experiences [during its various incarnations], is Nirvanic."

Buddhism, however, viewed in any aspect, must be regarded as a gloomy religion. It is hard
enough to crucify all natural desires and lead a life of self-abnegation; but for the spirit,
in order to be purified, to be obliged to enter into body after body, each subject to disease,
misery, and death, and then after a long series of migrations to be virtually annihilated as
the highest consummation of happiness, gives one but a poor conception of the efforts of the
proudest unaided intellect to arrive at a knowledge of God and immortal bliss. It would thus
seem that the true idea of God, or even that of immortality, is not an innate conception revealed
by consciousness; for why should good and intellectual men, trained to study and reflection
all their lives, gain no clearer or more inspiring notions of the Being of infinite love and
power, or of the happiness which He is able and willing to impart? What a feeble conception
of God is a being without the oversight of the worlds that he created, without volition or
purpose or benevolence, or anything corresponding to our notion of personality! What a poor
conception of supernal bliss, without love or action or thought or holy companionship,--only
rest, unthinking repose, and absence from disease, misery, and death, a state of endless impassiveness!
What is Nirvana but an escape from death and deliverance from mortal desires, where there are
neither ideas nor the absence of ideas; no changes or hopes or fears, it is true, but also
no joy, no aspiration, no growth, no life,--a state of nonentity, where even consciousness
is practically extinguished, and individuality merged into absolute stillness and a dreamless
rest? What a poor reward for ages of struggle and the final achievement of exalted virtue!

But if Buddhism failed to arrive at what we believe to be a true knowledge of God and the destiny
of the soul,--the forgiveness and remission, or doing-away, of sin, and a joyful and active
immortality, all which I take to be revelations rather than intuitions,--yet there were some
great certitudes in its teachings which did appeal to consciousness,--certitudes recognized
by the noblest teachers of all ages and nations. These were such realities as truthfulness,
sincerity, purity, justice, mercy, benevolence, unselfishness, love. The human mind arrives
at ethical truths, even when all speculation about God and immortality has failed. The idea
of God may be lost, but not that of moral obligation,--the mutual social duties of mankind.
There is a sense of duty even among savages; in the lowest civilization there is true admiration
of virtue. No sage that I ever read of enjoined immorality. No ignorance can prevent the sense
of shame, of honor, or of duty. Everybody detests a liar and despises a thief. Thou shalt not
bear false witness; thou shalt not commit adultery; thou shalt not kill,--these are laws written
in human consciousness as well as in the code of Moses. Obedience and respect to parents are
instincts as well as obligations.

Hence the prince Siddârtha, as soon as he had found the wisdom of inward motive and the folly
of outward rite, shook off the yoke of the priests, and denounced caste and austerities and
penances and sacrifices as of no avail in securing the welfare and peace of the soul or the
favor of deity. In all this he showed an enlightened mind, governed by wisdom and truth, and
even a bold and original genius,--like Abraham when he disowned the gods of his fathers. Having
thus himself gained the security of the heights, Buddha longed to help others up, and turned
his attention to the moral instruction of the people of India. He was emphatically a missionary
of ethics, an apostle of righteousness, a reformer of abuses, as well as a tender and compassionate
man, moved to tears in view of human sorrows and sufferings. He gave up metaphysical speculations
for practical philanthropy. He wandered from city to city and village to village to relieve
misery and teach duties rather than theological philosophies. He did not know that God is love,
but he did know that peace and rest are the result of virtuous thoughts and acts.

"Let us then," said he, "live happily, not hating those who hate us; free from greed among
the greedy.... Proclaim mercy freely to all men; it is as large as the spaces of heaven....
Whoever loves will feel the longing to save not himself alone, but all others." He compares
himself to a father who rescues his children from a burning house, to a physician who cures
the blind. He teaches the equality of the sexes as well as the injustice of castes. He enjoins
kindness to servants and emancipation of slaves. "As a mother, as long as she lives, watches
over her child, so among all beings," said Gautama, "let boundless good-will prevail.... Overcome
evil with good, the avaricious with generosity, the false with truth.... Never forget thy own
duty for the sake of another's.... If a man speaks or acts with evil thoughts pain follows,
as the wheel the foot of him who draws the carriage.... He who lives seeking pleasure, and
uncontrolled, the tempter will overcome.... The true sage dwells on earth, as the bee gathers
sweetness with his mouth and wings.... One may conquer a thousand men in battle, but he who
conquers himself alone is the greatest victor.... Let no man think lightly of sin, saying in
his heart, 'It cannot overtake me.'... Let a man make himself what he preaches to others....
He who holds back rising anger as one might a rolling chariot, him, indeed, I call a driver;
others may hold the reins.... A man who foolishly does me wrong, I will return to him the protection
of my ungrudging love; the more evil comes from him, the more good shall go from me."

These are some of the sayings of the Indian reformer, which I quote from extracts of his writings
as translated by Sanskrit scholars. Some of these sayings rise to a height of moral beauty
surpassed only by the precepts of the great Teacher, whom many are too fond of likening to
Buddha himself. The religion of Buddha is founded on a correct and virtuous life, as the only
way to avoid sorrow and reach Nirvana. Its essence, theologically, is "Quietism," without firm
belief in anything reached by metaphysic speculation; yet morally and practically it inculcates
ennobling, active duties.

Among the rules that Buddha laid down for his disciples were--to keep the body pure; not to
enter upon affairs of trade; to have no lands and cattle, or houses, or money; to abhor all
hypocrisy and dissimulation; to be kind to everything that lives; never to take the life of
any living being; to control the passions; to eat food only to satisfy hunger; not to feel
resentment from injuries; to be patient and forgiving; to avoid covetousness, and never to
tire of self-reflection. His fundamental principles are purity of mind, chastity of life, truthfulness,
temperance, abstention from the wanton destruction of animal life, from vain pleasures, from
envy, hatred, and malice. He does not enjoin sacrifices, for he knows no god to whom they can
be offered; but "he proclaimed the brotherhood of man, if he did not reveal the fatherhood
of God." He insisted on the natural equality of all men,--thus giving to caste a mortal wound,
which offended the Brahmans, and finally led to the expulsion of his followers from India.
He protested against all absolute authority, even that of the Vedas. Nor did he claim, any
more than Confucius, originality of doctrines, only the revival of forgotten or neglected truths.
He taught that Nirvana was not attained by Brahmanical rites, but by individual virtues; and
that punishment is the inevitable result of evil deeds by the inexorable law of cause and effect.

Buddhism is essentially rationalistic and ethical, while Brahmanism is a pantheistic tendency
to polytheism, and ritualistic even to the most offensive sacerdotalism. The Brahman reminds
me of a Dunstan,--the Buddhist of a Benedict; the former of the gloomy, spiritual despotism
of the Middle Ages,--the latter of self-denying monasticism in its best ages. The Brahman is
like Thomas Aquinas with his dogmas and metaphysics; the Buddhist is more like a mediaeval
freethinker, stigmatized as an atheist. The Brahman was so absorbed with his theological speculation
that he took no account of the sufferings of humanity; the Buddhist was so absorbed with the
miseries of man that the greatest blessing seemed to be entire and endless rest, the cessation
of existence itself,--since existence brought desire, desire sin, and sin misery. As a religion
Buddhism is an absurdity; in fact, it is no religion at all, only a system of moral philosophy.
Its weak points, practically, are the abuse of philanthropy, its system of organized idleness
and mendicancy, the indifference to thrift and industry, the multiplication of lazy fraternities
and useless retreats, reminding us of monastic institutions in the days of Chaucer and Luther.
The Buddhist priest is a mendicant and a pauper, clothed in rags, begging his living from door
to door, in which he sees no disgrace and no impropriety. Buddhism failed to ennoble the daily
occupations of life, and produced drones and idlers and religious vagabonds. In its corruption
it lent itself to idolatry, for the Buddhist temples are filled with hideous images of all
sorts of repulsive deities, although Buddha himself did not hold to idol worship any more than
to the belief in a personal God.

"Buddhism," says the author of its accepted catechism, "teaches goodness without a God, existence
without a soul, immortality without life, happiness without a heaven, salvation without a saviour,
redemption without a redeemer, and worship without rites." The failure of Buddhism, both as
a philosophy and a religion, is a confirmation of the great historical fact, that in the ancient
Pagan world no efforts of reason enabled man unaided to arrive at a true--that is, a helpful
and practically elevating--knowledge of deity. Even Buddha, one of the most gifted and excellent
of all the sages who have enlightened the world, despaired of solving the great mysteries of
existence, and turned his attention to those practical duties of life which seemed to promise
a way of escaping its miseries. He appealed to human consciousness; but lacking the inspiration
and aid which come from a sense of personal divine influence, Buddhism has failed, on the large
scale, to raise its votaries to higher planes of ethical accomplishment. And hence the necessity
of that new revelation which Jesus declared amid the moral ruins of a crumbling world, by which
alone can the debasing superstitions of India and the godless materialism of China be replaced
with a vital spirituality,--even as the elaborate mythology of Greece and Rome gave way before
the fervent earnestness of Christian apostles and martyrs.

It does not belong to my subject to present the condition of Buddhism as it exists to-day in
Thibet, in Siam, in China, in Japan, in Burmah, in Ceylon, and in various other Eastern countries.
It spread by reason of its sympathy with the poor and miserable, by virtue of its being a great
system of philanthropy and morals which appealed to the consciousness of the lower classes.
Though a proselyting religion it was never a persecuting one, and is still distinguished, in
all its corruption, for its toleration.

AUTHORITIES.

The chief authorities that I would recommend for this chapter are Max Müller's History of Ancient
Sanskrit Literature; Rev. S. Seal's Buddhism in China; Buddhism, by T. W. Rhys-Davids; Monier
Williams's Sákoontalá; I. Muir's Sanskrit Texts; Burnouf's Essai sur la Vêda; Sir William Jones's
Works; Colebrook's Miscellaneous Essays; Joseph Muller's Religious Aspects of Hindu Philosophy;
Manual of Buddhism, by R. Spence Hardy; Dr. H. Clay Trumbull's The Blood Covenant; Orthodox
Buddhist Catechism, by H. S. Olcott, edited by Prof. Elliott C. Coues. I have derived some
instruction from Samuel Johnson's bulky and diffuse books, but more from James Freeman Clarke's
Ten Great Religions^ and Rawlinson's Religions of the Ancient World.

RELIGION OF THE GREEKS AND ROMANS.

CLASSIC MYTHOLOGY.

Religion among the lively and imaginative Greeks took a different form from that of the Aryan
race in India or Persia. However the ideas of their divinities originated in their relations
to the thought and life of the people, their gods were neither abstractions nor symbols. They
were simply men and women, immortal, yet having a beginning, with passions and appetites like
ordinary mortals. They love, they hate, they eat, they drink, they have adventures and misfortunes
like men,--only differing from men in the superiority of their gifts, in their miraculous endowments,
in their stupendous feats, in their more than gigantic size, in their supernal beauty, in their
intensified pleasures. It was not their aim "to raise mortals to the skies," but to enjoy themselves
in feasting and love-making; not even to govern the world, but to protect their particular
worshippers,--taking part and interest in human quarrels, without reference to justice or right,
and without communicating any great truths for the guidance of mankind.

The religion of Greece consisted of a series of myths,--creations for the most part of the
poets,--and therefore properly called a mythology. Yet in some respects the gods of Greece
resembled those of Phoenicia and Egypt, being the powers of Nature, and named after the sun,
moon, and planets. Their priests did not form a sacerdotal caste, as in India and Egypt; they
were more like officers of the state, to perform certain functions or duties pertaining to
rites, ceremonies, and sacrifices. They taught no moral or spiritual truths to the people,
nor were they held in extraordinary reverence. They were not ascetics or enthusiasts; among
them were no great reformers or prophets, as among the sacerdotal class of the Jews or the
Hindus. They had even no sacred books, and claimed no esoteric knowledge. Nor was their office
hereditary. They were appointed by the rulers of the state, or elected by the people themselves;
they imposed no restraints on the conscience, and apparently cared little for morals, leaving
the people to an unbounded freedom to act and think for themselves, so far as they did not
interfere with prescribed usages and laws. The real objects of Greek worship were beauty, grace,
and heroic strength. The people worshipped no supreme creator, no providential governor, no
ultimate judge of human actions. They had no aspirations for heaven and no fear of hell. They
did not feel accountable for their deeds or thoughts or words to an irresistible Power working
for righteousness or truth. They had no religious sense, apart from wonder or admiration of
the glories of Nature, or the good or evil which might result from the favor or hatred of the
divinities they accepted.

These divinities, moreover, were not manifestations of supreme power and intelligence, but
were creations of the fancy, as they came from popular legends, or the brains of poets, or
the hands of artists, or the speculations of philosophers. And as everything in Greece was
beautiful and radiant,--the sea, the sky, the mountains, and the valleys,--so was religion
cheerful, seen in all the festivals which took the place of the Sabbaths and holy-days of more
spiritually minded peoples. The worshippers of the gods danced and played and sported to the
sounds of musical instruments, and revelled in joyous libations, in feasts and imposing processions,--in
whatever would amuse the mind or intoxicate the senses. The gods were rather unseen companions
in pleasures, in sports, in athletic contests and warlike enterprises, than beings to be adored
for moral excellence or supernal knowledge. "Heaven was so near at hand that their own heroes
climbed to it and became demigods." Every grove, every fountain, every river, every beautiful
spot, had its presiding deity; while every wonder of Nature,--the sun, the moon, the stars,
the tempest, the thunder, the lightning,--was impersonated as an awful power for good or evil.
To them temples were erected, within which were their shrines and images in human shape, glistening
with gold and gems, and wrought in every form of grace or strength or beauty, and by artists
of marvellous excellence.

This polytheism of Greece was exceedingly complicated, but was not so degrading as that of
Egypt, since the gods were not represented by the forms of hideous animals, and the worship
of them was not attended by revolting ceremonies; and yet it was divested of all spiritual
aspirations, and had but little effect on personal struggles for truth or holiness. It was
human and worldly, not lofty nor even reverential, except among the few who had deep religious
wants. One of its characteristic features was the acknowledged impotence of the gods to secure
future happiness. In fact, the future was generally ignored, and even immortality was but a
dream of philosophers. Men lived not in view of future rewards and punishments, or future existence
at all, but for the enjoyment of the present; and the gods themselves set the example of an
immoral life. Even Zeus, "the Father of gods and men," to whom absolute supremacy was ascribed,
the work of creation, and all majesty and serenity, took but little interest in human affairs,
and lived on Olympian heights like a sovereign surrounded with the instruments of his will,
freely indulging in those pleasures which all lofty moral codes have forbidden, and taking
part in the quarrels, jealousies, and enmities of his divine associates.

Greek mythology had its source in the legends of a remote antiquity,--probably among the Pelasgians,
the early inhabitants of Greece, which they brought with them in their migration from their
original settlement, or perhaps from Egypt and Phoenicia. Herodotus--and he is not often wrong--ascribes
a great part of the mythology which the Greek poets elaborated to a Phoenician or Egyptian
source. The legends have also some similarity to the poetic creations of the ancient Persians,
who delighted in fairies and genii and extravagant exploits, like the labors of Hercules The
faults and foibles of deified mortals were transmitted to posterity and incorporated with the
attributes of the supreme divinity, and hence the mixture of the mighty and the mean which
marks the characters of the Iliad and Odyssey. The Greeks adopted Oriental fables, and accommodated
them to those heroes who figured in their own country in the earliest times. "The labors of
Hercules originated in Egypt, and relate to the annual progress of the sun in the zodiac. The
rape of Proserpine, the wanderings of Ceres, the Eleusinian mysteries, and the orgies of Bacchus
were all imported from Egypt or Phoenicia, while the wars between the gods and the giants were
celebrated in the romantic annals of Persia. The oracle of Dodona was copied from that of Ammon
in Thebes, and the oracle of Apollo at Delphos has a similar source."

Behind the Oriental legends which form the basis of Grecian mythology there was, in all probability,
in those ancient times before the Pelasgians were known as Ionians and the Hellenes as Dorians,
a mystical and indefinite idea of supreme power,--as among the Persians, the Hindus, and the
esoteric priests of Egypt. In all the ancient religions the farther back we go the purer and
loftier do we find the popular religion. Belief in supreme deity underlies all the Eastern
theogonies, which belief, however, was soon perverted or lost sight of. There is great difference
of opinion among philosophers as to the origin of myths,--whether they began in fable and came
to be regarded as history, or began as human history and were poetized into fable. My belief
is that in the earliest ages of the world there were no mythologies. Fables were the creations
of those who sought to amuse or control the people, who have ever delighted in the marvellous.
As the magnificent, the vast, the sublime, which was seen in Nature, impressed itself on the
imagination of the Orientals and ended in legends, so did allegory in process of time multiply
fictions and fables to an indefinite extent; and what were symbols among Eastern nations became
impersonations in the poetry of Greece. Grecian mythology was a vast system of impersonated
forces, beginning with the legends of heroes and ending with the personification of the faculties
of the mind and the manifestations of Nature, in deities who presided over festivals, cities,
groves, and mountains, with all the infirmities of human nature, and without calling out exalted
sentiments of love or reverence. They are all creations of the imagination, invested with human
traits and adapted to the genius of the people, who were far from being religious in the sense
that the Hindus and Egyptians were. It was the natural and not the supernatural that filled
their souls. It was art they worshipped, and not the God who created the heavens and the earth,
and who exacts of his creatures obedience and faith.

In regard to the gods and goddesses of the Grecian Pantheon, we observe that most of them were
immoral; at least they had the usual infirmities of men. They are thus represented by the poets,
probably to please the people, who like all other peoples had to make their own conceptions
of God; for even a miraculous revelation of deity must be interpreted by those who receive
it, according to their own understanding of the qualities revealed. The ancient Romans, themselves
stern, earnest, practical, had an almost Oriental reverence for their gods, so that their Jupiter
(Father of Heaven) was a majestic, powerful, all-seeing, severely just national deity, regarded
by them much as the Jehovah of the Hebrews was by that nation. When in later times the conquest
of Eastern countries and of Macedon and Greece brought in luxury, works of art, foreign literature,
and all the delightful but enervating influences of aestheticism, the Romans became corrupted,
and gradually began to identify their own more noble deities with the beautiful but unprincipled,
self-indulgent, and tricky set of gods and goddesses of the Greek mythology.

The Greek Zeus, with whom were associated majesty and dominion, and who reigned supreme in
the celestial hierarchy,--who as the chief god of the skies, the god of storms, ruler of the
atmosphere, was the favorite deity of the Aryan race, the Indra of the Hindus, the Jupiter
of the Romans,--was in his Grecian presentment a rebellious son, a faithless husband, and sometimes
an unkind father. His character was a combination of weakness and strength,--anything but a
pattern to be imitated, or even to be reverenced. He was the impersonation of power and dignity,
represented by the poets as having such immense strength that if he had hold of one end of
a chain, and all the gods held the other, with the earth fastened to it, he would be able to
move them all.

Poseidon (Roman Neptune), the brother of Zeus, was represented as the god of the ocean, and
was worshipped chiefly in maritime States. His morality was no higher than that of Zeus; moreover,
he was rough, boisterous, and vindictive. He was hostile to Troy, and yet persecuted Ulysses.

Apollo, the next great personage of the Olympian divinities, was more respectable morally than
his father. He was the sun-god of the Greeks, and was the embodiment of divine prescience,
of healing skill, of musical and poetical productiveness, and hence the favorite of the poets.
He had a form of ideal beauty, grace, and vigor, inspired by unerring wisdom and insight into
futurity. He was obedient to the will of Zeus, to whom he was not much inferior in power. Temples
were erected to this favorite deity in every part of Greece, and he was supposed to deliver
oracular responses in several cities, especially at Delphos.

Hephaestus (Roman Vulcan), the god of fire, was a sort of jester at the Olympian court, and
provoked perpetual laughter from his awkwardness and lameness. He forged the thunderbolts for
Zeus, and was the armorer of heaven. It accorded with the grim humor of the poets to make this
clumsy blacksmith the husband of Aphrodite, the queen of beauty and of love.

Ares (Roman Mars), the god of war, was represented as cruel, lawless, and greedy of blood,
and as occupying a subordinate position, receiving orders from Apollo and Athene.

Hermes (Roman Mercury) was the impersonation of commercial dealings, and of course was full
of tricks and thievery,--the Olympian man of business, industrious, inventive, untruthful,
and dishonest. He was also the god of eloquence.

Besides these six great male divinities there were six goddesses, the most important of whom
was Hera (Roman Juno), wife of Zeus, and hence the Queen of Heaven. She exercised her husband's
prerogatives, and thundered and shook Olympus; but she was proud, vindictive, jealous, unscrupulous,
and cruel,--a poor model for women to imitate. The Greek poets, however, had a poor opinion
of the female sex, and hence represent this deity without those elements of character which
we most admire in woman,--gentleness, softness, tenderness, and patience. She scolded her august
husband so perpetually that he gave way to complaints before the assembled deities, and that
too with a bitterness hardly to be reconciled with our notions of dignity. The Roman Juno,
before the identification of the two goddesses, was a nobler character, being the queen of
heaven, the protectress of virgins and of matrons, and was also the celestial housewife of
the nation, watching over its revenues and its expenses. She was the especial goddess of chastity,
and loose women were forbidden to touch her altars.

Athene (Roman Minerva) however, the goddess of wisdom, had a character without a flaw, and
ranked with Apollo in wisdom. She even expostulated with Zeus himself when he was wrong. But
on the other hand she had few attractive feminine qualities, and no amiable weaknesses.

Artemis (Roman Diana) was "a shadowy divinity, a pale reflection of her brother Apollo." She
presided over the pleasures of the chase, in which the Greeks delighted,--a masculine female
who took but little interest in anything intellectual.

Aphrodite (Roman Venus) was the impersonation of all that was weak and erring in the nature
of woman,--the goddess of sensual desire, of mere physical beauty, silly, childish, and vain,
utterly odious in a moral point of view, and mentally contemptible. This goddess was represented
as exerting a great influence even when despised, fascinating yet revolting, admired and yet
corrupting. She was not of much importance among the Romans,--who were far from being sentimental
or passionate,--until the growth of the legend of their Trojan origin. Then, as mother of Aeneas,
their progenitor, she took a high rank, and the Greek poets furnished her character.

Hestia (Roman Vesta) presided over the private hearths and homesteads of the Greeks, and imparted
to them a sacred character. Her personality was vague, but she represented the purity which
among both Greeks and Romans is attached to home and domestic life.

Demeter (Roman Ceres) represented Mother Earth, and thus was closely associated with agriculture
and all operations of tillage and bread-making. As agriculture is the primitive and most important
of all human vocations, this deity presided over civilization and law-giving, and occupied
an important position in the Eleusinian mysteries.

These were the twelve Olympian divinities, or greater gods; but they represent only a small
part of the Grecian Pantheon. There was Dionysus (Roman Bacchus), the god of drunkenness. This
deity presided over vineyards, and his worship was attended with disgraceful orgies,--with
wild dances, noisy revels, exciting music, and frenzied demonstrations.

Leto (Roman Latona), another wife of Zeus, and mother of Apollo and Diana, was a very different
personage from Hera, being the impersonation of all those womanly qualities which are valued
in woman,--silent, unobtrusive, condescending, chaste, kindly, ready to help and tend, and
subordinating herself to her children.

Persephone (Roman Proserpina) was the queen of the dead, ruling the infernal realm even more
distinctly than her husband Pluto, severely pure as she was awful and terrible; but there were
no temples erected to her, as the Greeks did not trouble themselves much about the future state.

The minor deities of the Greeks were innumerable, and were identified with every separate thing
which occupied their thoughts,--with mountains, rivers, capes, towns, fountains, rocks; with
domestic animals, with monsters of the deep, with demons and departed heroes, with water-nymphs
and wood-nymphs, with the qualities of mind and attributes of the body; with sleep and death,
old age and pain, strife and victory; with hunger, grief, ridicule, wisdom, deceit, grace;
with night and day, the hours, the thunder the rainbow,---in short, all the wonders of Nature,
all the affections of the soul, and all the qualities of the mind; everything they saw, everything
they talked about, everything they felt. All these wonders and sentiments they impersonated;
and these impersonations were supposed to preside over the things they represented, and to
a certain extent were worshipped. If a man wished the winds to be propitious, he prayed to
Zeus; if he wished to be prospered in his bargains, he invoked Hermes; if he wished to be successful
in war, he prayed to Ares.

He never prayed to a supreme and eternal deity, but to some special manifestation of deity,
fancied or real; and hence his religion was essentially pantheistic, though outwardly polytheistic.
The divinities whom he invoked he celebrated with rites corresponding with those traits which
they represented. Thus, Aphrodite was celebrated with lascivious dances, and Dionysus with
drunken revels. Each deity represented the Grecian ideal,--of majesty or grace or beauty or
strength or virtue or wisdom or madness or folly. The character of Hera was what the poets
supposed should be the attributes of the Queen of heaven; that of Leto, what should distinguish
a disinterested housewife; that of Hestia, what should mark the guardian of the fireside; that
of Demeter, what should show supreme benevolence and thrift; that of Athene, what would naturally
be associated with wisdom, and that of Aphrodite, what would be expected from a sensual beauty.
In the main, Zeus was serene, majestic, and benignant, as became the king of the gods, although
he was occasionally faithless to his wife; Poseidon was boisterous, as became the monarch of
the seas; Apollo was a devoted son and a bright companion, which one would expect in a gifted
poet and wise prophet, beautiful and graceful as a sun-god should be; Hephaestus, the god of
fire and smiths, showed naturally the awkwardness to which manual labor leads; Ares was cruel
and bloodthirsty, as the god of war should be; Hermes, as the god of trade and business, would
of course be sharp and tricky; and Dionysus, the father of the vine, would naturally become
noisy and rollicking in his intoxication.

Thus, whatever defects are associated with the principal deities, these are all natural and
consistent with the characters they represent, or the duties and business in which they engage.
Drunkenness is not associated with Zeus, or unchastity with Hera or Athene. The poets make
each deity consistent with himself, and in harmony with the interests he represents. Hence
the mythology of the poets is elaborate and interesting. Who has not devoured the classical
dictionary before he has learned to scan the lines of Homer or of Virgil? As varied and romantic
as the "Arabian Nights," it shines in the beauty of nature. In the Grecian creations of gods
and goddesses there is no insult to the understanding, because these creations are in harmony
with Nature, are consistent with humanity. There is no hatred and no love, no jealousy and
no fear, which has not a natural cause. The poets proved themselves to be great artists in
the very characters they gave to their divinities. They did not aim to excite reverence or
stimulate to duty or point out the higher life, but to amuse a worldly, pleasure-seeking, good-natured,
joyous, art-loving, poetic people, who lived in the present and for themselves alone.

As a future state of rewards and punishments seldom entered into the minds of the Greeks, so
the gods are never represented as conferring future salvation. The welfare of the soul was
rarely thought of where there was no settled belief in immortality. The gods themselves were
fed on nectar and ambrosia, that they might not die like ordinary mortals. They might prolong
their own existence indefinitely, but they were impotent to confer eternal life upon their
worshippers; and as eternal life is essential to perfect happiness, they could not confer even
happiness in its highest sense.

On this fact Saint Augustine erected the grand fabric of his theological system. In his most
celebrated work, "The City of God," he holds up to derision the gods of antiquity, and with
blended logic and irony makes them contemptible as objects of worship, since they were impotent
to save the soul. In his view the grand and distinguishing feature of Christianity, in contrast
with Paganism, is the gift of eternal life and happiness. It is not the morality which Christ
and his Apostles taught, which gave to Christianity its immeasurable superiority over all other
religions, but the promise of a future felicity in heaven. And it was this promise which gave
such comfort to the miserable people of the old Pagan world, ground down by oppression, injustice,
cruelty, and poverty. It was this promise which filled the converts to Christianity with joy,
enthusiasm, and hope,--yea, more than this, even boundless love that salvation was the gift
of God through the self-sacrifice of Christ. Immortality was brought to light by the gospel
alone, and to miserable people the idea of eternal bliss after the trials of mortal life were
passed was the source of immeasurable joy. No sooner was this sublime expectation of happiness
planted firmly in the minds of pagans, than they threw their idols to the moles and the bats.

But even in regard to morality, Augustine showed that the gods were no examples to follow.
He ridicules their morals and their offices as severely as he points out their impotency to
bestow happiness. He shows the absurdity and inconsistency of tolerating players in their delineation
of the vices and follies of deities for the amusement of the people in the theatre, while the
priests performed the same obscenities as religious rites in the temples which were upheld
by the State; so that philosophers like Varro could pour contempt on players with impunity,
while he dared not ridicule priests for doing in the temples the same things. No wonder that
the popular religion at last was held in contempt by philosophers, since it was not only impotent
to save, but did not stimulate to ordinary morality, to virtue, or to lofty sentiments. A religion
which was held sacred in one place and ridiculed in another, before the eyes of the same people,
could not in the end but yield to what was better.

If we ascribe to the poets the creation of the elaborate mythology of the Greeks,--that is,
a system of gods made by men, rather than men made by gods,--whether as symbols or objects
of worship, whether the religion was pantheistic or idolatrous, we find that artists even surpassed
the poets in their conceptions of divine power, goodness, and beauty, and thus riveted the
chains which the poets forged.

The temple of Zeus at Olympia in Elis, where the intellect and the culture of Greece assembled
every four years to witness the games instituted in honor of the Father of the gods, was itself
calculated to impose on the senses of the worshippers by its grandeur and beauty. The image
of the god himself, sixty feet high, made of ivory, gold, and gems by the greatest of all the
sculptors of antiquity, must have impressed spectators with ideas of strength and majesty even
more than any poetical descriptions could do. If it was art which the Greeks worshipped rather
than an unseen deity who controlled their destinies, and to whom supreme homage was due, how
nobly did the image before them represent the highest conceptions of the attributes to be ascribed
to the King of Heaven! Seated on his throne, with the emblems of sovereignty in his hands and
attendant deities around him, his head, neck, breast, and arms in massive proportions, and
his face expressive of majesty and sweetness, power in repose, benevolence blended with strength,--the
image of the Olympian deity conveyed to the minds of his worshippers everything that could
inspire awe, wonder, and goodness, as well as power. No fear was blended with admiration, since
his favor could be won by the magnificent rites and ceremonies which were instituted in his honor.

Clarke alludes to the sculptured Apollo Belvedere as giving a still more elevated idea of the
sun-god than the poets themselves,--a figure expressive of the highest thoughts of the Hellenic
mind,--and quotes Milman in support of his admiration:--

     "All, all divine! no struggling muscle glows,
     Through heaving vein no mantling life-blood flows;
     But, animate with deity alone,
     In deathless glory lives the breathing stone."

If a Christian poet can see divinity in the chiselled stone, why should we wonder at the worship
of art by the pagan Greeks? The same could be said of the statues of Artemis, of Pallas-Athene,
of Aphrodite, and other "divine" productions of Grecian artists, since they represented the
highest ideal the world has seen of beauty, grace, loveliness, and majesty, which the Greeks
adored. Hence, though the statues of the gods are in human shape, it was not men that the Greeks
worshipped, but those qualities of mind and those forms of beauty to which the cultivated intellect
instinctively gave the highest praise. No one can object to this boundless admiration which
the Greeks had for art in its highest forms, in so far as that admiration became worship. It
was the divorce of art from morals which called out the indignation and censure of the Christian
fathers, and even undermined the religion of philosophers so far as it had been directed to
the worship of the popular deities, which were simply creations of poets and artists.

It is difficult to conceive how the worship of the gods could have been kept up for so long
a time, had it not been for the festivals. This wise provision for providing interest and recreation
for the people was also availed of by the Mosaic ritual among the Hebrews, and has been a part
of most well-organized religious systems. The festivals were celebrated in honor not merely
of deities, but of useful inventions, of the seasons of the year, of great national victories,--all
which were religious in the pagan sense, and constituted the highest pleasures of Grecian life.
They were observed with great pomp and splendor in the open air in front of temples, in sacred
groves, wherever the people could conveniently assemble to join in jocund dances, in athletic
sports, and whatever could animate the soul with festivity and joy. Hence the religious worship
of the Greeks was cheerful, and adapted itself to the tastes and pleasures of the people; it
was, however, essentially worldly, and sometimes degrading. It was similar in its effects to
the rural sports of the yeomanry of the Middle Ages, and to the theatrical representations
sometimes held in mediaeval churches,--certainly to the processions and pomps which the Catholic
clergy instituted for the amusement of the people. Hence the sneering but acute remark of Gibbon,
that all religions were equally true to the people, equally false to philosophers, and equally
useful to rulers. The State encouraged and paid for sacrifices, rites, processions, and scenic
dances on the same principle that they gave corn to the people to make them contented in their
miseries, and severely punished those who ridiculed the popular religion when it was performed
in temples, even though it winked at the ridicule of the same performances in the theatres.

Among the Greeks there were no sacred books like the Hindu Vedas or Hebrew Scriptures, in which
the people could learn duties and religious truths. The priests taught nothing; they merely
officiated at rites and ceremonies. It is difficult to find out what were the means and forms
of religious instruction, so far as pertained to the heart and conscience. Duties were certainly
not learned from the ministers of religion. From what source did the people learn the necessity
of obedience to parents, of conjugal fidelity, of truthfulness, of chastity, of honesty? It
is difficult to tell. The poets and artists taught ideas of beauty, of grace, of strength;
and Nature in her grandeur and loveliness taught the same things. Hence a severe taste was
cultivated, which excluded vulgarity and grossness in the intercourse of life. It was the rule
to be courteous, affable, gentlemanly, for all this was in harmony with the severity of art.
The comic poets ridiculed pretension, arrogance, quackery, and lies. Patriotism, which was
learned from the dangers of the State, amid warlike and unscrupulous neighbors, called out
many manly virtues, like courage, fortitude, heroism, and self-sacrifice. A hard and rocky
soil necessitated industry, thrift, and severe punishment on those who stole the fruits of
labor, even as miners in the Rocky Mountains sacredly abstain from appropriating the gold of
their fellow-laborers. Self-interest and self-preservation dictated many laws which secured
the welfare of society. The natural sacredness of home guarded the virtue of wives and children;
the natural sense of justice raised indignation against cheating and tricks in trade. Men and
women cannot live together in peace and safety without observing certain conditions, which
may be ranked with virtues even among savages and barbarians,--much more so in cultivated and
refined communities.

The graces and amenities of life can exist without reference to future rewards and punishments.
The ultimate law of self-preservation will protect men in ordinary times against murder and
violence, and will lead to public and social enactments which bad men fear to violate. A traveller
ordinarily feels as safe in a highly-civilized pagan community as in a Christian city. The
"heathen Chinee" fears the officers of the law as much as does a citizen of London.

The great difference between a Pagan and a Christian people is in the power of conscience,
in the sense of a moral accountability to a spiritual Deity, in the hopes or fears of a future
state,--motives which have a powerful influence on the elevation of individual character and
the development of higher types of social organization. But whatever laws are necessary for
the maintenance of order, the repression of violence, of crimes against person and the State
and the general material welfare of society, are found in Pagan as well as in Christian States;
and the natural affections,--of paternal and filial love, friendship, patriotism, generosity,
etc.,--while strengthened by Christianity, are also an inalienable part of the God-given heritage
of all mankind. We see many heroic traits, many manly virtues, many domestic amenities, and
many exalted sentiments in pagan Greece, even if these were not taught by priests or sages.
Every man instinctively clings to life, to property, to home, to parents, to wife and children;
and hence these are guarded in every community, and the violation of these rights is ever punished
with greater or less severity for the sake of general security and public welfare, even if
there be no belief in God. Religion, loftily considered, has but little to do with the temporal
interests of men. Governments and laws take these under their protection, and it is men who
make governments and laws. They are made from the instinct of self-preservation, from patriotic
aspirations, from the necessities of civilization. Religion, from the Christian standpoint,
is unworldly, having reference to the life which is to come, to the enlightenment of the conscience,
to restraint from sins not punishable by the laws, and to the inspiration of virtues which
have no worldly reward.

This kind of religion was not taught by Grecian priests or poets or artists, and did not exist
in Greece, with all its refinements and glories, until partially communicated by those philosophers
who meditated on the secrets of Nature, the mighty mysteries of life, and the duties which
reason and reflection reveal. And it may be noticed that the philosophers themselves, who began
with speculations on the origin of the universe, the nature of the gods, the operations of
the mind, and the laws of matter, ended at last with ethical inquiries and injunctions. We
see this illustrated in Socrates and Zeno. They seemed to despair of finding out God, of explaining
the wonders of his universe, and came down to practical life in its sad realities,--like Solomon
himself when he said, "Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man."
In ethical teachings and inquiries some of these philosophers reached a height almost equal
to that which Christian sages aspired to climb; and had the world practised the virtues which
they taught, there would scarcely have been need of a new revelation, so far as the observance
of rules to promote happiness on earth is concerned. But these Pagan sages did not hold out
hopes beyond the grave. They even doubted whether the soul was mortal or immortal. They did
teach many ennobling and lofty truths for the enlightenment of thinkers; but they held out
no divine help, nor any hope of completing in a future life the failures of this one; and hence
they failed in saving society from a persistent degradation, and in elevating ordinary men
to those glorious heights reached by the Christian converts.

That was the point to which Augustine directed his vast genius and his unrivalled logic. He
admitted that arts might civilize, and that the elaborate mythology which he ridiculed was
interesting to the people, and was, as a creation of the poets, ingenious and beautiful; but
he showed that it did not reveal a future state, that it did not promise eternal happiness,
that it did not restrain men from those sins which human laws could not punish, and that it
did not exalt the soul to lofty communion with the Deity, or kindle a truly spiritual life,
and therefore was worthless as a religion, imbecile to save, and only to be classed with those
myths which delight an ignorant or sensuous people, and with those rites which are shrouded
in mystery and gloom. Nor did he, in his matchless argument against the gods of Greece and
Rome, take for his attack those deities whose rites were most degrading and senseless, and
which the thinking world despised, but the most lofty forms of pagan religion, such as were
accepted by moralists and philosophers like Seneca and Plato. And thus he reached the intelligence
of the age, and gave a final blow to all the gods of antiquity.

It would be instructive to show that the religion of Greece, as embraced by the people, did
not prevent or even condemn those social evils that are the greatest blot on enlightened civilization.
It did not discourage slavery, the direst evil which ever afflicted humanity; it did not elevate
woman to her true position at home or in public; it ridiculed those passive virtues that are
declared and commended in the Sermon on the Mount; it did not pronounce against the wickedness
of war, or the vanity of military glory; it did not dignify home, or the virtues of the family
circle; it did not declare the folly of riches, or show that the love of money is a root of
all evil. It made sensual pleasure and outward prosperity the great aims of successful ambition,
and hid with an impenetrable screen from the eyes of men the fatal results of a worldly life,
so that suicide itself came to be viewed as a justifiable way to avoid evils that are hard
to be borne; in short, it was a religion which, though joyous, was without hope, and with innumerable
deities was without God in the world,--which was no religion at all, but a fable, a delusion,
and a superstition, as Paul argued before the assembled intellect of the most fastidious and
cultivated city of the world.

And yet we see among those who worshipped the gods of Greece a sense of dependence on supernatural
power; and this dependence stands out, both in the Iliad and the Odyssey, among the boldest
heroes. They seem to be reverential to the powers above them, however indefinite their views.
In the best ages of Greece the worship of the various deities was sincere and universal, and
was attended with sacrifices to propitiate favor or avert their displeasure.

It does not appear that these sacrifices were always offered by priests. Warriors, kings, and
heroes themselves sacrificed oxen, sheep, and goats, and poured out libations to the gods.
Homer's heroes were very strenuous in the exercise of these duties; and they generally traced
their calamities and misfortunes to the neglect of sacrifices, which was a great offence to
the deities, from Zeus down to inferior gods. We read, too, that the gods were supplicated
in fervent prayer. There was universally felt, in earlier times, a need of divine protection.
If the gods did not confer eternal life, they conferred, it was supposed, temporal and worldly
good. People prayed for the same blessings that the ancient Jews sought from Jehovah. In this
sense the early Greeks were religious. Irreverence toward the gods was extremely rare. The
people, however, did not pray for divine guidance in the discharge of duty, but for the blessings
which would give them health and prosperity. We seldom see a proud self-reliance even among
the heroes of the Iliad, but great solicitude to secure aid from the deities they worshipped.

       *       *       *       *       *

The religion of the Romans differed in some respects from that of the Greeks, inasmuch as it
was emphatically a state religion. It was more of a ritual and a ceremony. It included most
of the deities of the Greek Pantheon, but was more comprehensive. It accepted the gods of all
the nations that composed the empire, and placed them in the Pantheon,--even Mithra, the Persian
sun-god, and the Isis and Osiris of the Egyptians, to whom sacrifices were made by those who
worshipped them at home. It was also a purer mythology, and rejected many of the blasphemous
myths concerning the loves and quarrels of the Grecian deities. It was more practical and less
poetical. Every Roman god had something to do, some useful office to perform. Several divinities
presided over the birth and nursing of an infant, and they were worshipped for some fancied
good, for the benefits which they were supposed to bestow. There was an elaborate "division
of labor" among them. A divinity presided over bakers, another over ovens,--every vocation
and every household transaction had its presiding deities.

There were more superstitious rites practised by the Romans than by the Greeks,--such as examining
the entrails of beasts and birds for good or bad omens. Great attention was given to dreams
and rites of divination. The Roman household gods were of great account, since there was a
more defined and general worship of ancestors than among the Greeks. These were the Penates,
or familiar household gods, the guardians of the home, whose fire on the sacred hearth was
perpetually burning, and to whom every meal was esteemed a sacrifice. These included a Lar,
or ancestral family divinity, in each house. There were Vestal virgins to guard the most sacred
places. There was a college of pontiffs to regulate worship and perform the higher ceremonies,
which were complicated and minute. The pontiffs were presided over by one called Pontifex Maximus,--a
title shrewdly assumed by Caesar to gain control of the popular worship, and still surviving
in the title of the Pope of Rome with his college of cardinals. There were augurs and haruspices
to discover the will of the gods, according to entrails and the flight of birds.

The festivals were more numerous in Rome than in Greece, and perhaps were more piously observed.
About one day in four was set apart for the worship of particular gods, celebrated by feasts
and games and sacrifices. The principal feast days were in honor of Janus, the great god of
the Sabines, the god of beginnings, celebrated on the first of January, to which month he gave
his name; also the feasts in honor of the Penates, of Mars, of Vesta, of Minerva, of Venus,
of Ceres, of Juno, of Jupiter, and of Saturn. The Saturnalia, December 19, in honor of Saturn,
the annual Thanksgiving, lasted seven days, when the rich kept open house and slaves had their
liberty,--the most joyous of the festivals. The feast of Minerva lasted five days, when offerings
were made by all mechanics, artists, and scholars. The feast of Cybele, analogous to that of
Ceres in Greece and Isis in Egypt, lasted six days. These various feasts imposed great contributions
on the people, and were managed by the pontiffs with the most minute observances and legalities.

The principal Roman divinities were the Olympic gods under Latin names, like Jupiter, Juno,
Mars, Minerva, Neptune, Vesta, Apollo, Venus, Ceres, and Diana; but the secondary deities were
almost innumerable. Some of the deities were of Etruscan, some of Sabine, and some of Latin
origin; but most of them were imported from Greece or corresponded with those of the Greek
mythology. Many were manufactured by the pontiffs for utilitarian purposes, and were mere abstractions,
like Hope, Fear, Concord, Justice, Clemency, etc., to which temples were erected. The powers
of Nature were also worshipped, like the sun, the moon, and stars. The best side of Roman life
was represented in the worship of Vesta, who presided over the household fire and home, and
was associated with the Lares and Penates. Of these household gods the head of the family was
the officiating minister who offered prayers and sacrifices. The Vestal virgins received especial
honor, and were appointed by the Pontifex Maximus.

Thus the Romans accounted themselves very religious, and doubtless are to be so accounted,
certainly in the same sense as were the Athenians by the Apostle Paul, since altars, statues,
and temples in honor of gods were everywhere present to the eye, and rites and ceremonies were
most systematically and mechanically observed according to strict rules laid down by the pontiffs.
They were grave and decorous in their devotions, and seemed anxious to learn from their augurs
and haruspices the will of the gods; and their funeral ceremonies were held with great pomp
and ceremony. As faith in the gods declined, ceremonies and pomps were multiplied, and the
ice of ritualism accumulated on the banks of piety. Superstition and unbelief went hand in
hand. Worship in the temples was most imposing when the amours and follies of the gods were
most ridiculed in the theatres; and as the State was rigorous in its religious observances,
hypocrisy became the vice of the most prominent and influential citizens. What sincerity was
there in Julius Caesar when he discharged the duties of high-priest of the Republic? It was
impossible for an educated Roman who read Plato and Zeno to believe in Janus and Juno. It was
all very well for the people so to believe, he said, who must be kept in order; but scepticism
increased in the higher classes until the prevailing atheism culminated in the poetry of Lucretius,
who had the boldness to declare that faith in the gods had been the curse of the human race.

If the Romans were more devoted to mere external and ritualistic services than the Greeks,--more
outwardly religious,--they were also more hypocritical. If they were not professed freethinkers,--for
the State did not tolerate opposition or ridicule of those things which it instituted or patronized,--religion
had but little practical effect on their lives. The Romans were more immoral yet more observant
of religious ceremonies than the Greeks, who acted and thought as they pleased. Intellectual
independence was not one of the characteristics of the Roman citizen. He professed to think
as the State prescribed, for the masters of the world were the slaves of the State in religion
as in war. The Romans were more gross in their vices as they were more pharisaical in their
profession than the Greeks, whom they conquered and imitated. Neither the sincere worship of
ancestors, nor the ceremonies and rites which they observed in honor of their innumerable divinities,
softened the severity of their character, or weakened their passion for war and bloody sports.
Their hard and rigid wills were rarely moved by the cries of agony or the shrieks of despair.
Their slavery was more cruel than among any nation of antiquity. Butchery and legalized murder
were the delight of Romans in their conquering days, as were inhuman sports in the days of
their political decline. Where was the spirit of religion, as it was even in India and Egypt,
when women were debased; when every man and woman held a human being in cruel bondage; when
home was abandoned for the circus and the amphitheatre; when the cry of the mourner was unheard
in shouts of victory; when women sold themselves as wives to those who would pay the highest
price, and men abstained from marriage unless they could fatten on rich dowries; when utility
was the spring of every action, and demoralizing pleasure was the universal pursuit; when feastings
and banquets were riotous and expensive, and violence and rapine were restrained only by the
strong arm of law dictated by instincts of self-preservation? Where was the ennobling influence
of the gods, when nobody of any position finally believed in them? An awful picture, but sustained
by the evidence of the Roman writers of that day as certainly no worse than the hideous reality.

If this was the outcome of the most exquisitely poetical and art-inspiring mythology the world
has ever known, what wonder that the pure spirituality of Jesus the Christ, shining into that
blackness of darkness, should have been hailed by perishing millions as the "light of the world"!

       *       *       *       *       *

AUTHORITIES.

Rawlinson's Religions of the Ancient World; Grote's History of Greece; Thirlwall's History
of Greece; Homer's Iliad and Odyssey; Max Müller's Chips from a German Workshop; Curtius's
History of Greece; Mr. Gladstone's Homer and the Homeric Age; Rawlinson's Herodotus; Döllinger's
Jew and Gentile; Fenton's Lectures on Ancient and Modern Greece; Smith's Dictionary of Greek
and Roman Mythology; Clarke's Ten Great Religions; Dwight's Mythology; Saint Augustine's City
of God.

CONFUCIUS.

SAGE AND MORALIST.

550-478 B.C.

About one hundred years after the great religious movement in India under Buddha, a man was
born in China who inaugurated a somewhat similar movement there, and who impressed his character
and principles on three hundred millions of people. It cannot be said that he was the founder
of a new religion, since he aimed only to revive what was ancient. To quote his own words,
he was "a transmitter, and not a maker." But he was, nevertheless, a very extraordinary character;
and if greatness is to be measured by results, I know of no heathen teacher whose work has
been so permanent. In genius, in creative power, he was inferior to many; but in influence
he has had no equal among the sages of the world.

"Confucius" is a Latin name given him by Jesuit missionaries in China; his real name was K'ung-foo-tseu.
He was born about 550 B.C., in the province of Loo, and was the contemporary of Belshazzar,
of Cyrus, of Croesus, and of Pisistratus. It is claimed that Confucius was a descendant of
one of the early emperors of China, of the Chow dynasty, 1121 B.C.; but he was simply of an
upper-class family of the State of Loo, one of the provinces of the empire,--his father and
grandfather having been prime ministers to the reigning princes or dukes of Loo, which State
resembled a feudal province of France in the Middle Ages, acknowledging only a nominal fealty
to the Emperor.

We know but little of the early condition of China. The earliest record of events which can
be called history takes us back to about 2350 B.C., when Yaou was emperor,--an intelligent
and benignant prince, uniting under his sway the different States of China, which had even
then reached a considerable civilization, for the legendary or mythical history of the country
dates back about five thousand years. Yaou's son Shun was an equally remarkable man, wise and
accomplished, who lived only to advance the happiness of his subjects. At that period the religion
of China was probably monotheistic. The supreme being was called Shang-te, to whom sacrifices
were made, a deity who exercised a superintending care of the universe; but corruptions rapidly
crept in, and a worship of the powers of Nature and of the spirits of departed ancestors, who
were supposed to guard the welfare of their descendants, became the prevailing religion. During
the reigns of these good emperors the standard of morality was high throughout the empire.

But morals declined,--the old story in all the States of the ancient world. In addition to
the decline in morals, there were political discords and endless wars between the petty princes
of the empire.

To remedy the political and moral evils of his time was the great desire and endeavor of Confucius.
The most marked feature in the religion of the Chinese, before his time, was the worship of
ancestors, and this worship he did not seek to change. "Confucius taught three thousand disciples,
of whom the more eminent became influential authors. Like Plato and Xenophon, they recorded
the sayings of their master, and his maxims and arguments preserved in their works were afterward
added to the national collection of the sacred books called the 'Nim Classes.'"

Confucius was a mere boy when his father died, and we know next to nothing of his early years.
At fifteen years of age, however, we are told that he devoted himself to learning, pursuing
his studies under considerable difficulties, his family being poor. He married when he was
nineteen years of age; and in the following year was born his son Le, his only child, of whose
descendants eleven thousand males were living one hundred and fifty years ago, constituting
the only hereditary nobility of China,--a class who for seventy generations were the recipients
of the highest honors and privileges. On the birth of Le, the duke Ch'aou of Loo sent Confucius
a present of a carp, which seems to indicate that he was already distinguished for his attainments.

At twenty years of age Confucius entered upon political duties, being the superintendent of
cattle, from which, for his fidelity and ability, he was promoted to the higher office of distributer
of grain, having attracted the attention of his sovereign. At twenty-two he began his labors
as a public teacher, and his house became the resort of enthusiastic youth who wished to learn
the doctrines of antiquity. These were all that the sage undertook to teach,--not new and original
doctrines of morality or political economy, but only such as were established from a remote
antiquity, going back two thousand years before he was born. There is no improbability in this
alleged antiquity of the Chinese Empire, for Egypt at this time was a flourishing State.

At twenty-nine years of age Confucius gave his attention to music, which he studied under a
famous master; and to this art he devoted no small part of his life, writing books and treatises
upon it. Six years afterward, at thirty-five, he had a great desire to travel; and the reigning
duke, in whose service he was as a high officer of state, put at his disposal a carriage and
two horses, to visit the court of the Emperor, whose sovereignty, however, was only nominal.
It does not appear that Confucius was received with much distinction, nor did he have much
intercourse with the court or the ministers. He was a mere seeker of knowledge, an inquirer
about the ceremonies and maxims of the founder of the dynasty of Chow, an observer of customs,
like Herodotus. He wandered for eight years among the various provinces of China, teaching
as he went, but without making a great impression. Moreover, he was regarded with jealousy
by the different ministers of princes; one of them, however, struck with his wisdom and knowledge,
wished to retain him in his service.

On the return of Confucius to Loo, he remained fifteen years without official employment, his
native province being in a state of anarchy. But he was better employed than in serving princes,
prosecuting his researches into poetry, history, ceremonies, and music,--a born scholar, with
insatiable desire of knowledge. His great gifts and learning, however, did not allow him to
remain without public employment. He was made governor of an important city. As chief magistrate
of this city, he made a marvellous change in the manners of the people. The duke, surprised
at what he saw, asked if his rules could be employed to govern a whole State; and Confucius
told him that they could be applied to the government of the Empire. On this the duke appointed
him assistant superintendent of Public Works,--a great office, held only by members of the
ducal family. So many improvements did Confucius make in agriculture that he was made minister
of Justice; and so wonderful was his management, that soon there was no necessity to put the
penal laws in execution, since no offenders could be found. Confucius held his high office
as minister of Justice for two years longer, and some suppose he was made prime minister. His
authority certainly continued to increase. He exalted the sovereign, depressed the ministers,
and weakened private families,--just as Richelieu did in France, strengthening the throne at
the expense of the nobility. It would thus seem that his political reforms were in the direction
of absolute monarchy, a needed force in times of anarchy and demoralization. So great was his
fame as a statesman that strangers came from other States to see him.

These reforms in the state of Loo gave annoyance to the neighboring princes; and to undermine
the influence of Confucius with the duke, these princes sent the duke a present of eighty beautiful
girls, possessing musical and dancing accomplishments, and also one hundred and twenty splendid
horses. As the duke soon came to think more of his girls and horses than of his reforms, Confucius
became disgusted, resigned his office, and retired to private life. Then followed thirteen
years of homeless wandering. He was now fifty-six years of age, depressed and melancholy in
view of his failure with princes. He was accompanied in his travels by some of his favorite
disciples, to whom he communicated his wisdom.

But his fame preceded him wherever he journeyed, and such was the respect for his character
and teachings that he was loaded with presents by the people, and was left unmolested to do
as he pleased. The dissoluteness of courts filled him with indignation and disgust; and he
was heard to exclaim on one occasion, "I have not seen one who loves virtue as he loves beauty,"--meaning
the beauty of women. The love of the beautiful, in an artistic sense, is a Greek and not an
Oriental idea.

In the meantime Confucius continued his wanderings from city to city and State to State, with
a chosen band of disciples, all of whom became famous. He travelled for the pursuit of knowledge,
and to impress the people with his doctrines. A certain one of his followers was questioned
by a prince as to the merits and peculiarities of his master, but was afraid to give a true
answer. The sage hearing of it, said, "You should have told him, He is simply a man who in
his eager pursuit of knowledge forgets his food, who in the joy of his attainments forgets
his sorrows, and who does not perceive that old age is coming on." How seldom is it that any
man reaches such a height! In a single sentence the philosopher describes himself truly and
impressively.

At last, in the year 491 B.C., a new sovereign reigned in Loo, and with costly presents invited
Confucius to return to his native State. The philosopher was now sixty-nine years of age, and
notwithstanding the respect in which he was held, the world cannot be said to have dealt kindly
with him. It is the fate of prophets and sages to be rejected. The world will not bear rebukes.
Even a friend, if discreet, will rarely venture to tell another friend his faults. Confucius
told the truth when pressed, but he does not seem to have courted martyrdom; and his manners
and speech were too bland, too proper, too unobtrusive to give much offence. Luther was aided
in his reforms by his very roughness and boldness, but he was surrounded by a different class
of people from those whom Confucius sought to influence. Conventional, polite, considerate,
and a great respecter of persons in authority was the Chinese sage. A rude, abrupt, and fierce
reformer would have had no weight with the most courteous and polite people of whom history
speaks; whose manners twenty-five hundred years ago were substantially the same as they are
at the present day,--a people governed by the laws of propriety alone.

The few remaining years of Confucius' life were spent in revising his writings; but his latter
days were made melancholy by dwelling on the evils of the world that he could not remove. Disappointment
also had made him cynical and bitter, like Solomon of old, although from different causes.
He survived his son and his most beloved disciples. As he approached the dark valley he uttered
no prayer, and betrayed no apprehension. Death to him was a rest. He died at the age of seventy-three.

In the tenth book of his Analects we get a glimpse of the habits of the philosopher. He was
a man of rule and ceremony.-He was particular about his dress and appearance. He was no ascetic,
but moderate and temperate. He lived chiefly on rice, like the rest of his countrymen, but
required to have his rice cooked nicely, and his meat cut properly. He drank wine freely, but
was never known to have obscured his faculties by this indulgence. I do not read that tea was
then in use. He was charitable and hospitable, but not ostentatious. He generally travelled
in a carriage with two horses, driven by one of his disciples; but a carriage in those days
was like one of our carts. In his village, it is said, he looked simple and sincere, as if
he were one not able to speak; when waiting at court, or speaking with officers of an inferior
grade, he spoke freely, but in a straightforward manner; with officers of a higher, grade he
spoke blandly, but precisely; with the prince he was grave, but self-possessed. When eating
he did not converse; when in bed he did not speak. If his mat were not straight he did not
sit on it. When a friend sent him a present he did not bow; the only present for which he bowed
was that of the flesh of sacrifice. He was capable of excessive grief, with all his placidity.
When his favorite pupil died, he exclaimed, "Heaven is destroying me!" His disciples on this
said, "Sir, your grief is excessive." "It is excessive," he replied. "If I am not to mourn
bitterly for this man, for whom should I mourn?"

The reigning prince of Loo caused a temple to be erected over the remains of Confucius, and
the number of his disciples continually increased. The emperors of the falling dynasty of Chow
had neither the intelligence nor the will to do honor to the departed philosopher, but the
emperors of the succeeding dynasties did all they could to perpetuate his memory. During his
life Confucius found ready acceptance for his doctrines, and was everywhere revered among the
people, though not uniformly appreciated by the rulers, nor able permanently to establish the
reforms he inaugurated. After his death, however, no honor was too great to be rendered him.
The most splendid temple in China was built over his grave, and he received a homage little
removed from worship. His writings became a sacred rule of faith and practice; schools were
based upon them, and scholars devoted themselves to their interpretation. For two thousand
years Confucius has reigned supreme,--the undisputed teacher of a population of three or four
hundred millions.

Confucius must be regarded as a man of great humility, conscious of infirmities and faults,
but striving after virtue and perfection. He said of himself, "I have striven to become a man
of perfect virtue, and to teach others without weariness; but the character of the superior
man, carrying out in his conduct what he professes, is what I have not attained to. I am not
one born in the possession of knowledge, but I am one who is fond of antiquity, and earnest
in seeking it there. I am a transmitter, and not a maker." If he did not lay claim to divine
illumination, he felt that he was born into the world for a special purpose; not to declare
new truths, not to initiate any new ceremony, but to confirm what he felt was in danger of
being lost,--the most conservative of all known reformers.

Confucius left behind voluminous writings, of which his Analects, his book of Poetry, his book
of History, and his Rules of Propriety are the most important. It is these which are now taught,
and have been taught for two thousand years, in the schools and colleges of China. The Chinese
think that no man so great and perfect as he has ever lived. His writings are held in the same
veneration that Christians attach to their own sacred literature. There is this one fundamental
difference between the authors of the Bible and the Chinese sage,--that he did not like to
talk of spiritual things; indeed, of them he was ignorant, professing no interest in relation
to the working out of abstruse questions, either of philosophy or theology. He had no taste
or capacity for such inquiries. Hence, he did not aspire to throw any new light on the great
problems of human condition and destiny; nor did he speculate, like the Ionian philosophers,
on the creation or end of things. He was not troubled about the origin or destiny of man. He
meddled neither with physics nor metaphysics, but he earnestly and consistently strove to bring
to light and to enforce those principles which had made remote generations wise and virtuous.
He confined his attention to outward phenomena,--to the world of sense and matter; to forms,
precedents, ceremonies, proprieties, rules of conduct, filial duties, and duties to the State;
enjoining temperance, honesty, and sincerity as the cardinal and fundamental laws of private
and national prosperity. He was no prophet of wrath, though living in a corrupt age. He utters
no anathemas on princes, and no woes on peoples. Nor does he glow with exalted hopes of a millennium
of bliss, or of the beatitudes of a future state. He was not stern and indignant like Elijah,
but more like the courtier and counsellor Elisha. He was a man of the world, and all his teachings
have reference to respectability in the world's regard. He doubted more than he believed.

And yet in many of his sayings Confucius rises to an exalted height, considering his age and
circumstances. Some of them remind us of some of the best Proverbs of Solomon. In general,
we should say that to his mind filial piety and fraternal submission were the foundation of
all virtuous practices, and absolute obedience to rulers the primal principle of government.
He was eminently a peace man, discouraging wars and violence. He was liberal and tolerant in
his views. He said that the "superior man is catholic and no partisan." Duke Gae asked, "What
should be done to secure the submission of the people?" The sage replied, "Advance the upright,
and set aside the crooked; then the people will submit. But advance the crooked, and set aside
the upright, and the people will not submit." Again he said, "It is virtuous manners which
constitute the excellence of a neighborhood; therefore fix your residence where virtuous manners
prevail." The following sayings remind me of Epictetus: "A scholar whose mind is set on truth,
and who is ashamed of bad clothes and bad food, is not fit to be discoursed with. A man should
say, 'I am not concerned that I have no place,--I am concerned how I may fit myself for one.
I am not concerned that I am not known; I seek to be worthy to be known.'" Here Confucius looks
to the essence of things, not to popular desires. In the following, on the other hand, he shows
his prudence and policy: "In serving a prince, frequent remonstrances lead to disgrace; between
friends, frequent reproofs make the friendship distant." Thus he talks like Solomon. "Tsae-yu,
one of his disciples, being asleep in the day-time, the master said, 'Rotten wood cannot be
carved. This Yu--what is the use of my reproving him?'" Of a virtuous prince, he said: "In
his conduct of himself, he was humble; in serving his superiors, he was respectful; in nourishing
the people, he was kind; in ordering the people, he was just."

It was discussed among his followers what it is to be distinguished. One said: "It is to be
heard of through the family and State." The master replied: "That is notoriety, not distinction."
Again he said: "Though a man may be able to recite three hundred odes, yet if when intrusted
with office he does not know how to act, of what practical use is his poetical knowledge?"
Again, "If a minister cannot rectify himself, what has he to do with rectifying others?" There
is great force in this saying: "The superior man is easy to serve and difficult to please,
since you cannot please him in any way which is not accordant with right; but the mean man
is difficult to serve and easy to please. The superior man has a dignified ease without pride;
the mean man has pride without a dignified ease." A disciple asked him what qualities a man
must possess to entitle him to be called a scholar. The master said: "He must be earnest, urgent,
and bland,--among his friends earnest and urgent, among his brethren bland." And, "The scholar
who cherishes a love of comfort is not fit to be deemed a scholar." "If a man," he said, "take
no thought about what is distant, he will find sorrow near at hand." And again, "He who requires
much from himself and little from others, he will keep himself from being an object of resentment."
These proverbs remind us of Bacon: "Specious words confound virtue." "Want of forbearance in
small matters confound great plans." "Virtue," the master said, "is more to man than either
fire or water. I have seen men die from treading on water or fire, but I have never seen a
man die from treading the course of virtue." This is a lofty sentiment, but I think it is not
in accordance with the records of martyrdom. "There are three things," he continued, "which
the superior man guards against: In youth he guards against his passions, in manhood against
quarrelsomeness, and in old age against covetousness."

I do not find anything in the sayings of Confucius that can be called cynical, such as we find
in some of the Proverbs of Solomon, even in reference to women, where women were, as in most
Oriental countries, despised. The most that approaches cynicism is in such a remark as this:
"I have not yet seen one who could perceive his faults and inwardly accuse himself." His definition
of perfect virtue is above that of Paley: "The man of virtue makes the difficulty to be overcome
his first business, and success only a secondary consideration." Throughout his writings there
is no praise of success without virtue, and no disparagement of want of success with virtue.
Nor have I found in his sayings a sentiment which may be called demoralizing. He always takes
the higher ground, and with all his ceremony ever exalts inward purity above all external appearances.
There is a quaint common-sense in some of his writings which reminds one of the sayings of
Abraham Lincoln. For instance: One of his disciples asked, "If you had the conduct of armies,
whom would you have to act with you?" The master replied: "I would not have him to act with
me who will unarmed attack a tiger, or cross a river without a boat." Here something like wit
and irony break out: "A man of the village said, 'Great is K'ung the philosopher; his learning
is extensive, and yet he does not render his name famous by any particular thing.' The master
heard this observation, and said to his disciples: 'What shall I practise, charioteering or
archery? I will practise charioteering.'"

When the Duke of Loo asked about government, the master said: "Good government exists when
those who are near are made happy, and when those who are far off are attracted." When the
Duke questioned him again on the same subject, he replied: "Go before the people with your
example, and be laborious in their affairs.... Pardon small faults, and raise to office men
of virtue and talents." "But how shall I know the men of virtue?" asked the duke. "Raise to
office those whom you do know," The key to his political philosophy seems to be this: "A man
who knows how to govern himself, knows how to govern others; and he who knows how to govern
other men, knows how to govern an empire." "The art of government," he said, "is to keep its
affairs before the mind without weariness, and to practise them with undeviating constancy....
To govern means to rectify. If you lead on the people with correctness, who will not dare to
be correct?" This is one of his favorite principles; namely, the force of a good example,--as
when the reigning prince asked him how to do away with thieves, he replied: "If you, Sir, were
not covetous, although you should reward them to do it, they would not steal." This was not
intended as a rebuke to the prince, but an illustration of the force of a great example. Confucius
rarely openly rebuked any one, especially a prince, whom it was his duty to venerate for his
office. He contented himself with enforcing principles. Here his moderation and great courtesy
are seen.

Confucius sometimes soared to the highest morality known to the Pagan world. Chung-kung asked
about perfect virtue. The master said: "It is when you go abroad, to behave to every one as
if you were receiving a great guest, to have no murmuring against you in the country and family,
and not to do to others as you would not wish done to yourself.... The superior man has neither
anxiety nor fear. Let him never fail reverentially to order his own conduct, and let him be
respectful to others and observant of propriety; then all within the four seas will be brothers....
Hold faithfulness and sincerity as first principles, and be moving continually to what is right."
Fan-Chi asked about benevolence; the master said: "It is to love all men." Another asked about
friendship. Confucius replied: "Faithfully admonish your friend, and kindly try to lead him.
If you find him impracticable, stop. Do not disgrace yourself." This saying reminds us of that
of our great Master: "Cast not your pearls before swine." There is no greater folly than in
making oneself disagreeable without any probability of reformation. Some one asked: "What do
you say about the treatment of injuries?" The master answered: "Recompense injury with justice,
and recompense kindness with kindness." Here again he was not far from the greater Teacher
on the Mount "When a man's knowledge is sufficient to attain and his virtue is not sufficient
to hold, whatever he may have gained he will lose again." One of the favorite doctrines of
Confucius was the superiority of the ancients to the men of his day. Said he: "The high-mindedness
of antiquity showed itself in a disregard of small things; that of the present day shows itself
in license. The stern dignity of antiquity showed itself in grave reserve; that of the present
shows itself in quarrelsome perverseness. The policy of antiquity showed itself in straightforwardness;
that of the present in deceit." The following is a saying worthy of Montaigne: "Of all people,
girls and servants are the most difficult to behave to. If you are familiar with them, they
lose their humility; if you maintain reserve to them, they are discontented."

Such are some of the sayings of Confucius, on account of which he was regarded as the wisest
of his countrymen; and as his conduct was in harmony with his principles, he was justly revered
as a pattern of morality. The greatest virtues which he enjoined were sincerity, truthfulness,
and obedience to duty whatever may be the sacrifice; to do right because it is right and not
because it is expedient; filial piety extending to absolute reverence; and an equal reverence
for rulers. He had no theology; he confounded God with heaven and earth. He says nothing about
divine providence; he believed in nothing supernatural. He thought little and said less about
a future state of rewards and punishments. His morality was elevated, but not supernal. We
infer from his writings that his age was degenerate and corrupt, but, as we have already said,
his reproofs were gentle. Blandness of speech and manners was his distinguishing outward peculiarity;
and this seems to characterize his nation,--whether learned from him, or whether an inborn
national peculiarity, I do not know. He went through great trials most creditably, but he was
no martyr. He constantly complained that his teachings fell on listless ears, which made him
sad and discouraged; but he never flagged in his labors to improve his generation. He had no
egotism, but great self-respect, reminding us of Michael Angelo. He was humble but full of
dignity, serene though distressed, cheerful but not hilarious. Were he to live among us now,
we should call him a perfect gentleman, with aristocratic sympathies, but more autocratic in
his views of government and society than aristocratic. He seems to have loved the people, and
was kind, even respectful, to everybody. When he visited a school, it is said that he arose
in quiet deference to speak to the children, since some of the boys, he thought, would probably
be distinguished and powerful at no distant day. He was also remarkably charitable, and put
a greater value on virtues and abilities than upon riches and honors. Though courted by princes
he would not serve them in violation of his self-respect, asked no favors, and returned their
presents. If he did not live above the world, he adorned the world. We cannot compare his teachings
with those of Christ; they are immeasurably inferior in loftiness and spirituality; but they
are worldly wise and decorous, and are on an equality with those of Solomon in moral wisdom.
They are wonderfully adapted to a people who are conservative of their institutions, and who
have more respect for tradition than for progress.

The worship of ancestors is closely connected with veneration for parental authority; and with
absolute obedience to parents is allied absolute obedience to the Emperor as head of the State.
Hence, the writings of Confucius have tended to cement the Chinese imperial power,--in which
fact we may perhaps find the secret of his extraordinary posthumous influence. No wonder that
emperors and rulers have revered and honored his memory, and used the power of the State to
establish his doctrines. Moreover, his exaltation of learning as a necessity for rulers has
tended to put all the offices of the realm into the hands of scholars. There never was a country
where scholars have been and still are so generally employed by Government. And as men of learning
are conservative in their sympathies, so they generally are fond of peace and detest war. Hence,
under the influence of scholars the policy of the Chinese Government has always been mild and
pacific. It is even paternal. It has more similarity to the governments of a remote antiquity
than that of any existing nation. Thus is the influence of Confucius seen in the stability
of government and of conservative institutions, as well as in decency in the affairs of life,
and gentleness and courtesy of manners. Above all is his influence seen in the employment of
men of learning and character in the affairs of state and in all the offices of government,
as the truest guardians of whatever tends to exalt a State and make it respectable and stable,
if not powerful for war or daring in deeds of violence.

Confucius was essentially a statesman as well as a moralist; but his political career was an
apparent failure, since few princes listened to his instructions. Yet if he was lost to his
contemporaries, he has been preserved by posterity. Perhaps there never lived a man so worshipped
by posterity who had so slight a following by the men of his own time,--unless we liken him
to that greatest of all Prophets, who, being despised and rejected, is, and is to be, the "headstone
of the corner" in the rebuilding of humanity. Confucius says so little about the subjects that
interested the people of China that some suppose he had no religion at all. Nor did he mention
but once in his writings Shang-te, the supreme deity of his remote ancestors; and he deduced
nothing from the worship of him. And yet there are expressions in his sayings which seem to
show that he believed in a supreme power. He often spoke of Heaven, and loved to walk in the
heavenly way. Heaven to him was Destiny, by the power of which the world was created. By Heaven
the virtuous are rewarded, and the guilty are punished. Out of love for the people, Heaven
appoints rulers to protect and instruct them. Prayer is unnecessary, because Heaven does not
actively interfere with the soul of man.

Confucius was philosophical and consistent in the all-pervading principle by which he insisted
upon the common source of power in government,--of the State, of the family, and of one's self.
Self-knowledge and self-control he maintained to be the fountain of all personal virtue and
attainment in performance of the moral duties owed to others, whether above or below in social
standing. He supposed that all men are born equally good, but that the temptations of the world
at length destroy the original rectitude. The "superior man," who next to the "sage" holds
the highest place in the Confucian humanity, conquers the evil in the world, though subject
to infirmities; his acts are guided by the laws of propriety, and are marked by strict sincerity.
Confucius admitted that he himself had failed to reach the level of the superior man. This
admission may have been the result of his extraordinary humility and modesty.

In "The Great Learning" Confucius lays down the rules to enable one to become a superior man.
The foundation of his rules is in the investigation of things, or knowledge, with which virtue
is indissolubly connected,--as in the ethics of Socrates. He maintained that no attainment
can be made, and no virtue can remain untainted, without learning. "Without this, benevolence
becomes folly, sincerity recklessness, straightforwardness rudeness, and firmness foolishness."
But mere accumulation of facts was not knowledge, for "learning without thought is labor lost;
and thought without learning is perilous." Complete wisdom was to be found only among the ancient
sages; by no mental endeavor could any man hope to equal the supreme wisdom of Yaou and of
Shun. The object of learning, he said, should be truth; and the combination of learning with
a firm will, will surely lead a man to virtue. Virtue must be free from all hypocrisy and guile.

The next step towards perfection is the cultivation of the person,--which must begin with introspection,
and ends in harmonious outward expression. Every man must guard his thoughts, words, and actions;
and conduct must agree with words. By words the superior man directs others; but in order to
do this his words must be sincere. It by no means follows, however, that virtue is the invariable
concomitant of plausible speech.

The height of virtue is filial piety; for this is connected indissolubly with loyalty to the
sovereign, who is the father of his people and the preserver of the State. Loyalty to the sovereign
is synonymous with duty, and is outwardly shown by obedience. Next to parents, all superiors
should be the object of reverence. This reverence, it is true, should be reciprocal; a sovereign
forfeits all right to reverence and obedience when he ceases to be a minister of good. But
then, only the man who has developed virtues in himself is considered competent to rule a family
or a State; for the same virtues which enable a man to rule the one, will enable him to rule
the other. No man can teach others who cannot teach his own family. The greatest stress, as
we have seen, is laid by Confucius on filial piety, which consists in obedience to authority,--in
serving parents according to propriety, that is, with the deepest affection, and the father
of the State with loyalty. But while it is incumbent on a son to obey the wishes of his parents,
it is also a part of his duty to remonstrate with them should they act contrary to the rules
of propriety. All remonstrances, however, must be made humbly. Should these remonstrances fail,
the son must mourn in silence the obduracy of the parents. He carried the obligations of filial
piety so far as to teach that a son should conceal the immorality of a father, forgetting the
distinction of right and wrong. Brotherly love is the sequel of filial piety. "Happy," says
he, "is the union with wife and children; it is like the music of lutes and harps. The love
which binds brother to brother is second only to that which is due from children to parents.
It consists in mutual friendship, joyful harmony, and dutiful obedience on the part of the
younger to the elder brothers."

While obedience is exacted to an elder brother and to parents, Confucius said but little respecting
the ties which should bind husband and wife. He had but little respect for woman, and was divorced
from his wife after living with her for a year. He looked on women as every way inferior to
men, and only to be endured as necessary evils. It was not until a woman became a mother, that
she was treated with respect in China. Hence, according to Confucius, the great object of marriage
is to increase the family, especially to give birth to sons. Women could be lawfully and properly
divorced who had no children,--which put women completely in the power of men, and reduced
them to the condition of slaves. The failure to recognize the sanctity of marriage is the great
blot on the system of Confucius as a scheme of morals.

But the sage exalts friendship. Everybody, from the Emperor downward, must have friends; and
the best friends are those allied by ties of blood. "Friends," said he, "are wealth to the
poor, strength to the weak, and medicine to the sick." One of the strongest bonds to friendship
is literature and literary exertion. Men are enjoined by Confucius to make friends among the
most virtuous of scholars, even as they are enjoined to take service under the most worthy
of great officers. In the intercourse of friends, the most unbounded sincerity and frankness
is imperatively enjoined. "He who is not trusted by his friends will not gain the confidence
of the sovereign, and he who is not obedient to parents will not be trusted by friends."

Everything is subordinated to the State; but, on the other hand, the family, friends, culture,
virtue,--the good of the people,--is the main object of good government. "No virtue," said
Emperor Kuh, 2435 B.C., "is higher than love to all men, and there is no loftier aim in government
than to profit all men." When he was asked what should be done for the people, he replied,
"Enrich them;" and when asked what more should be done, he replied, "Teach them." On these
two principles the whole philosophy of the sage rested,--the temporal welfare of the people,
and their education. He laid great stress on knowledge, as leading to virtue; and on virtue,
as leading to prosperity. He made the profession of a teacher the most honorable calling to
which a citizen could aspire. He himself was a teacher. All sages are teachers, though all
teachers are not sages.

Confucius enlarged upon the necessity of having good men in office. The officials of his day
excited his contempt, and reciprocally scorned his teachings. It was in contrast to these officials
that he painted the ideal times of Kings Wan and Woo. The two motive-powers of government,
according to Confucius, are righteousness and the observance of ceremonies. Righteousness is
the law of the world, as ceremonies form a rule to the heart. What he meant by ceremonies was
rules of propriety, intended to keep all unruly passions in check, and produce a reverential
manner among all classes. Doubtless he over-estimated the force of example, since there are
men in every country and community who will be lawless and reckless, in spite of the best models
of character and conduct.

The ruling desire of Confucius was to make the whole empire peaceful and happy. The welfare
of the people, the right government of the State, and the prosperity of the empire were the
main objects of his solicitude. As conducive to these, he touched on many other things incidentally,--such
as the encouragement of music, of which he was very fond. He himself summed up the outcome
of his rules for conduct in this prohibitive form: "Do not unto others that which you would
not have them do to you." Here we have the negative side of the positive "golden rule." Reciprocity,
and that alone, was his law of life. He does not inculcate forgiveness of injuries, but exacts
a tooth for a tooth, and an eye for an eye.

As to his own personal character, it was nearly faultless. His humility and patience were alike
remarkable, and his sincerity and candor were as marked as his humility. He was the most learned
man in the empire, yet lamented the deficiency of his knowledge. He even disclaimed the qualities
of the superior man, much more those of the sage. "I am," said he, "not virtuous enough to
be free from cares, nor wise enough to be free from anxieties, nor bold enough to be free from
fear." He was always ready to serve his sovereign or the State; but he neither grasped office,
nor put forward his own merits, nor sought to advance his own interests. He was grave, generous,
tolerant, and sincere. He carried into practice all the rules he taught. Poverty was his lot
in life, but he never repined at the absence of wealth, or lost the severe dignity which is
ever to be associated with wisdom and the force of personal character. Indeed, his greatness
was in his character rather than in his genius; and yet I think his genius has been underrated.
His greatness is seen in the profound devotion of his followers to him, however lofty their
merits or exalted their rank. No one ever disputed his influence and fame; and his moral excellence
shines all the brighter in view of the troublous times in which he lived, when warriors occupied
the stage, and men of letters were driven behind the scenes.

The literary labors of Confucius were very great, since he made the whole classical literature
of China accessible to his countrymen. The fame of all preceding writers is merged in his own
renown. His works have had the highest authority for more than two thousand years. They have
been regarded as the exponents of supreme wisdom, and adopted as text-books by all scholars
and in all schools in that vast empire, which includes one-fourth of the human race. To all
educated men the "Book of Changes" (Yin-King), the "Book of Poetry" (She-King), the "Book of
History" (Shoo-King), the "Book of Rites" (Le-King), the "Great Learning" (Ta-heo), showing
the parental essence of all government, the "Doctrine of the Mean" (Chung-yung), teaching the
"golden mean" of conduct, and the "Confucian Analects" (Lun-yu), recording his conversations,
are supreme authorities; to which must be added the Works of Mencius, the greatest of his disciples.
There is no record of any books that have exacted such supreme reverence in any nation as the
Works of Confucius, except the Koran of the Mohammedans, the Book of the Law among the Hebrews,
and the Bible among the Christians. What an influence for one man to have exerted on subsequent
ages, who laid no claim to divinity or even originality,--recognized as a man, worshipped as a god!

No sooner had the sun of Confucius set under a cloud (since sovereigns and princes had neglected
if they had not scorned his precepts), than his memory and principles were duly honored. But
it was not until the accession of the Han dynasty, 206 B.C., that the reigning emperor collected
the scattered writings of the sage, and exerted his vast power to secure the study of them
throughout the schools of China. It must be borne in mind that a hostile emperor of the preceding
dynasty had ordered the books of Confucius to be burned; but they were secreted by his faithful
admirers in the walls of houses and beneath the ground. Succeeding emperors heaped additional
honors on the memory of the sage, and in the early part of the sixteenth century an emperor
of the Ming dynasty gave him the title which he at present bears in China,--"The perfect sage,
the ancient teacher, Confucius." No higher title could be conferred upon him in a land where
to be "ancient" is to be revered. For more than twelve hundred years temples have been erected
to his honor, and his worship has been universal throughout the empire. His maxims of morality
have appealed to human consciousness in every succeeding generation, and carry as much weight
to-day as they did when the Han dynasty made them the standard of human wisdom. They were especially
adapted to the Chinese intellect, which although shrewd and ingenious is phlegmatic, unspeculative,
matter-of-fact, and unspiritual. Moreover, as we have said, it was to the interest of rulers
to support his doctrines, from the constant exhortations to loyalty which Confucius enjoined.
And yet there is in his precepts a democratic influence also, since he recognized no other
titles or ranks but such as are won by personal merit,--thus opening every office in the State
to the learned, whatever their original social rank. The great political truth that the welfare
of the people is the first duty and highest aim of rulers, has endeared the memory of the sage
to the unnumbered millions who toil upon the scantiest means of subsistence that have been
known in any nation's history.

This essay on the religion of the Chinese would be incomplete without some allusion to one
of the contemporaries of Confucius, who spiritually and intellectually was probably his superior,
and to whom even Confucius paid extraordinary deference. This man was called Lao-tse, a recluse
and philosopher, who was already an old man when Confucius began his travels. He was the founder
of Tao-tze, a kind of rationalism, which at present has millions of adherents in China. This
old philosopher did not receive Confucius very graciously, since the younger man declared nothing
new, only wishing to revive the teachings of ancient sages, while he himself was a great awakener
of thought. He was, like Confucius, a politico-ethical teacher, but unlike him sought to lead
people back to a state of primitive society before forms and regulations existed. He held that
man's nature was good, and that primitive pleasures and virtues were better than worldly wisdom.
He maintained that spiritual weapons cannot be formed by laws and regulations, and that prohibiting
enactments tended to increase the evils they were meant to avert. While this great and profound
man was in some respects superior to Confucius, his influence has been most seen on the inferior
people of China. Taoism rivals Buddhism as the religion of the lower classes, and Taoism combined
with Buddhism has more adherents than Confucianism. But the wise, the mighty, and the noble
still cling to Confucius as the greatest man whom China has produced.

Of spiritual religion, indeed, the lower millions of Chinese have now but little conception;
their nearest approach to any supernaturalism is the worship of deceased ancestors, and their
religious observances are the grossest formalism. But as a practical system of morals in the
days of its early establishment, the religion of Confucius ranks very high among the best developments
of Paganism. Certainly no man ever had a deeper knowledge of his countrymen than he, or adapted
his doctrines to the peculiar needs of their social organism with such amazing tact.

It is a remarkable thing that all the religions of antiquity have practically passed away,
with their cities and empires, except among the Hindus and Chinese; and it is doubtful if these
religions can withstand the changes which foreign conquest and Christian missionary enterprise
and civilization are producing. In the East the old religions gave place to Mohamedanism, as
in the West they disappeared before the power of Christianity. And these conquering religions
retain and extend their hold upon the human mind and human affections by reason of their fundamental
principles,--the fatherhood of a personal God, and the brotherhood of universal man. With the
ideas prevalent among all sects that God is not only supreme in power, but benevolent in his
providence, and that every man has claims and rights which cannot be set aside by kings or
rulers or priests,--nations must indefinitely advance in virtue and happiness, as they receive
and live by the inspiration of this elevating faith.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUTHORITIES.

Religion in China, by Joseph Edkins, D.D.; Rawlinson's Religions of the Ancient World; Freeman
Clarke's Ten Great Religions; Johnson's Oriental Religions; Davis's Chinese; Nevins's China
and the Chinese; Giles's Chinese Sketches; Lenormant's Ancient History of the East; Hue's Christianity
in China; Legge's Prolegomena to the Shoo-King; Lecomte's China; Dr. S. Wells Williams's Middle
Kingdom; China, by Professor Douglas; The Religions of China, by James Legge.

ANCIENT PHILOSOPHY.

SEEKING AFTER TRUTH.

The progress of philosophy from Thales to Plato is the most stupendous triumph of the human
intellect. Only the Brahmans of India have equalled them in intellectual subtilty and acumen.
I do not here speak of his astronomical and geometrical labors, which were great, and which
have left their mark even upon our own daily life,--as, for instance, in the fact that he was
the first to have divided the year into three hundred and sixty-five days.

     "And he, 'tis said, did first compute the stars
     Which beam in Charles's wain, and guide the bark
     Of the Phoenecian sailor o'er the sea."

He is celebrated also for practical wisdom. "Know thyself," is one of his remarkable sayings.
How so crude a speculation could have been maintained by so wise a man it is difficult to conjecture.

Anaximenes, the disciple of Thales, pursued his master's inquiries and adopted his method.
He also was born in Miletus, but at what time is unknown,--probably 500 B.C. Like Thales, he
held to the eternity of matter. According to Diogenes Laertius, he said: "It appears to me
that he who begins any treatise ought to lay down principles about which there can be no dispute."
Heraclitus was, however, an obscure writer, and moreover cynical and arrogant. The idea of
elevating an abstraction into a great first cause was certainly a long stride in philosophic
generalization to be taken at that age of the world, following as it did so immediately upon
such partial and childish ideas as that any single one of the familiar "elements" could be
the primal cause of all things. It seems almost like the speculations of our own time, when
philosophers seek to find the first cause in impersonal Force, or infinite Energy. Thus Anaximander,
an original but vague thinker, prepared the way for Pythagoras.

Pythagoras was supposed to be a native of Samos. When quite young, being devoted to learning,
he quitted his country and went to Egypt, where he learned its language and all the secret
mysteries of the priests. He then returned to Samos, but finding the island under the dominion
of a tyrant he fled to Crotona, in Italy, where he gained great reputation for wisdom, and
made laws for the Italians. His pupils were about three hundred in number. He wrote three books,
which were extant in the time of Diogenes Laertius,--one on Education, one on Politics, and
one on Natural Philosophy. He also wrote an epic poem on the universe, to which he gave the
name of Kosmos.

Among the ethical principles which Pythagoras taught was that men ought not to pray for anything
in particular, since they do not know what is good for them; that drunkenness was identical
with ruin; that no one should exceed the proper quantity of meat and drink; that the property
of friends is common; that men should never say or do anything in anger. He forbade his disciples
to offer victims to the gods, ordering them to worship only at those altars which were unstained
with blood.

Pythagoras was the first person who introduced measures and weights among the Greeks. But it
is his philosophy which chiefly claims our attention. His main principle was that number is
the essence of things,--probably meaning by number order and harmony and conformity to law.
The order of the universe, he taught, is only a harmonical development of the first principle
of all things to virtue and wisdom. He attached much value to music, as an art which has great
influence on the affections; hence his doctrine of the music of the spheres. Assuming that
number is the essence of the world, he deduced the idea that the world is regulated by numerical
proportions, or by a system of laws which are regular and harmonious in their operations. Hence
the necessity for an intelligent creator of the universe. The Infinite of Anaximander became
the One of Pythagoras. He believed that the soul is incorporeal, and is put into the body subject
to numerical and harmonical relation, and thus to divine regulation. "It is impossible not
to see in these lofty speculations the effect of the Greek mind, according to its own genius,
seeking after God, if haply it might find Him."

We now approach the second stage of Greek philosophy. The Ionic philosophers had sought to
find the first principle of all things in the elements, and the Pythagoreans in number, or
harmony and law, implying an intelligent creator. The Eleatics, who now arose, went beyond
the realm of physics to pure metaphysical inquiries, to an idealistic pantheism, which disregarded
the sensible, maintaining that the source of truth is independent of the senses. Here they
were forestalled by the Hindu sages.

Such were the sublime meditations of Xenophanes.

Parmenides of Elea, born about the year 530 B.C., followed out the system of Xenophanes, the
central idea of which was the existence of God. With Parmenides the main thought was the notion
of being. Being is uncreated and unchangeable; the fulness of all being is thought; the All
is thought and intelligence. They too were prophets, although unconscious of their divine mission,--prophets
of that day when the science which explores and illustrates the works of God shall enlarge,
enrich, and beautify man's conceptions of the great creative Father. It is true that Socrates
and his great successors Plato and Aristotle were called "Sophists," but only as all philosophers
or wise men were so called. The Sophists as a class had incurred the odium of being the first
teachers who received pay for the instruction they imparted. The philosophers generally taught
for the love of truth. The Sophists were a natural and necessary and very useful development
of their time, but they were distinctly on a lower level than the Philosophers, or lovers of
wisdom. He deduced the existence of God from the order and harmony of Nature, belief in which
was irresistible. Cicero said of him, "Socrates brought down philosophy from the heavens to
the earth." He probably might have been acquitted if he had chosen to be, but he did not wish
to live after his powers of usefulness had passed away. He may not have had the originality
or keenness of Socrates, but he was more profound. He was pre-eminently a great thinker, a
great logician, skilled in dialectics; and his "Dialogues" are such perfect exercises of dialectical
method that the ancients were divided as to whether he was a sceptic or a dogmatist. He adopted
the Socratic method and enlarged it. Hence his writings became the great fountain-head of the
Ideal philosophy. As the admirers of Ralph Waldo Emerson claim that he, more than any other
man of our times, entered into the spirit of the Platonic philosophy, I introduce some of his
most striking paragraphs of subdued but earnest admiration of the greatest intellect of the
ancient Pagan world, hoping that they may be clearer to others than they are to me:--

These sentences [of Plato] contain the culture of nations; these are the corner-stone of schools;
these are the fountain-head of literatures. A discipline it is in logic, arithmetic, taste,
symmetry, poetry, language, rhetoric, ontology, morals, or practical wisdom. There never was
such a range of speculation. Out of Plato come all things that are still written and debated
among men of thought. Great havoc makes he among our originalities. We have reached the mountain
from which all these drift-bowlders were detached.... Plato, in Egypt and in Eastern pilgrimages,
imbibed the idea of one Deity, in which all things are absorbed. The unity of Asia and the
detail of Europe, the infinitude of the Asiatic soul and the defining, result-loving, machine-making,
surface-seeking, opera-going Europe Plato came to join, and by contact to enhance the energy
of each. The excellence of Europe and Asia is in his brain. Metaphysics and natural philosophy
expressed the genius of Europe; he substricts the religion of Asia as the base. In short, a
balanced soul was born, perceptive of the two elements.... The physical philosophers had sketched
each his theory of the world; the theory of atoms, of fire, of flux, of spirit,--theories mechanical
and chemical in their genius. Plato, a master of mathematics, studious of all natural laws
and causes, feels these, as second causes, to be no theories of the world, but bare inventories
and lists. To the study of Nature he therefore prefixes the dogma,--'Let us declare the cause
which led the Supreme Ordainer to produce and compose the universe. He was good; ... he wished
that all things should be as much as possible like himself.'...

Plato ... represents the privilege of the intellect,--the power, namely, of carrying up every
fact to successive platforms, and so disclosing in every fact a germ of expansion.... These
expansions, or extensions, consist in continuing the spiritual sight where the horizon falls
on our natural vision, and by this second sight discovering the long lines of law which shoot
in every direction.... His definition of ideas as what is simple, permanent, uniform, and self-existent,
forever discriminating them from the notions of the understanding, marks an era in the world.
He was an oracle until the revival of learning.

There can be no doubt as to Aristotle's marvellous power of systematizing. It is only a most
extensive and exhaustive examination of the accuracy of a proposition which will warrant secure
reasoning upon it. Aristotle reasoned without sufficient certainty of the major premise of
his syllogisms. Thus Aristotle made speculation subordinate to logical distinctions, and his
system, when carried out by the mediaeval Schoolmen, led to a spirit of useless quibbling.
Sir James Mackintosh says:--

"To Epicurus we owe the general concurrence of reflecting men in succeeding times in the important
truth that men cannot be happy without a virtuous frame of mind and course of life,--a truth
of inestimable value, not peculiar to the Epicureans, but placed by their exaggerations in
a stronger light; a truth, it must be added, of less importance as a motive to right conduct
than to the completeness of moral theory, which, however, it is very far from solely constituting.
With that truth the Epicureans blended another position,--that because virtue promotes happiness,
every act of virtue must be done in order to promote the happiness of the agent. Although,
therefore, he has the merit of having more strongly inculcated the connection of virtue with
happiness, yet his doctrine is justly charged with indisposing the mind to those exalted and
generous sentiments without which no pure, elevated, bold, or tender virtues can exist."

The founder of this sect, Zeno, was born, it is supposed, on the island of Cyprus, about the
year 350 B.C. He was the son of wealthy parents, but was reduced to poverty by misfortune.
He was so good a man, and so profoundly revered by the Athenians, that they intrusted to him
the keys of their citadel. Hence the name of his school. But Zeno, taking a stand on common-sense,
fought for morality, as did Buddha before him, and long after him Reid and Beattie, when they
combated the scepticism of Hume.

Zeno lived to the extreme old age of ninety-eight, although his constitution was not strong.
He retained his powers by great abstemiousness, living chiefly on figs, honey, and bread. He
was a modest and retiring man, seldom mingling with a crowd, or admitting the society of more
than two or three friends at a time. He was as plain in his dress as he was frugal in his habits,--a
man of great decorum and propriety of manners, resembling noticeably in his life and doctrines
the Chinese sage Confucius. And yet this good man, a pattern to the loftiest characters of
his age, strangled himself. Suicide was not deemed a crime by his followers, among whom were
some of the most faultless men of antiquity, especially among the Romans. The doctrines of
Zeno were never popular, and were confined to a small though influential party.

With the Stoics ended among the Greeks all inquiry of a philosophical nature worthy of especial
mention, until centuries later, when philosophy was revived in the Christian schools of Alexandria,
where the Hebrew element of faith was united with the Greek ideal of reason.

If anybody advanced philosophy among the Romans it was Epictetus, and even he only in the realm
of ethics. Nay, who does not rejoice to see in this slow but ever-advancing development of
man's comprehension of the truth the inspiration of that Divine Teacher, that Holy Spirit,
which shall at last lead man into all truth?

       *       *       *       *       *

AUTHORITIES. Archer Butler's Lectures are suggestive and able, but discursive and vague. Schleiermacher,
on Socrates, translated by Bishop Thirlwall, is well worth attention. There are also fine articles
in the Encyclopaedias Britannica and Metropolitana.

SOCRATES.

470-399 B.C.

GREEK PHILOSOPHY.

To Socrates the world owes a new method in philosophy and a great example in morals; and it
would be difficult to settle whether his influence has been greater as a sage or as a moralist.
In either light he is one of the august names of history. He has been venerated for more than
two thousand years as a teacher of wisdom, and as a martyr for the truths he taught. He did
not commit his precious thoughts to writing; that work was done by his disciples, even as his
exalted worth has been published by them, especially by Plato and Xenophon. And if the Greek
philosophy did not culminate in him, yet he laid down those principles by which only it could
be advanced. As a system-maker, both Plato and Aristotle were greater than he; yet for original
genius he was probably their superior, and in important respects he was their master. As a
good man, battling with infirmities and temptations and coming off triumphantly, the ancient
world has furnished no prouder example.

He was born about 470 or 469 years B.C., and therefore may be said to belong to that brilliant
age of Grecian literature and art when Prodicus was teaching rhetoric, and Democritus was speculating
about the doctrine of atoms, and Phidias was ornamenting temples, and Alcibiades was giving
banquets, and Aristophanes was writing comedies, and Euripides was composing tragedies, and
Aspasia was setting fashions, and Cimon was fighting battles, and Pericles was making Athens
the centre of Grecian civilization. But he died thirty years after Pericles; so that what is
most interesting in his great career took place during and after the Peloponnesian war,--an
age still interesting, but not so brilliant as the one which immediately preceded it. It was
the age of the Sophists,--those popular but superficial teachers who claimed to be the most
advanced of their generation; men who were doubtless accomplished, but were cynical, sceptical,
and utilitarian, placing a high estimate on popular favor and an outside life, but very little
on pure subjective truth or the wants of the soul. They were paid teachers, and sought pupils
from the sons of the rich,--the more eminent of them being Protagoras, Gorgias, Hippias, and
Prodicus; men who travelled from city to city, exciting great admiration for their rhetorical
skill, and really improving the public speaking of popular orators. They also taught science
to a limited extent, and it was through them that Athenian youth mainly acquired what little
knowledge they had of arithmetic and geometry. In loftiness of character they were not equal
to those Ionian philosophers, who, prior to Socrates, in the fifth century B.C., speculated
on the great problems of the material universe,--the origin of the world, the nature of matter,
and the source of power,--and who, if they did not make discoveries, yet evinced great intellectual
force.

It was in this sceptical and irreligious age, when all classes were devoted to pleasure and
money-making, but when there was great cultivation, especially in arts, that Socrates arose,
whose "appearance," says Grote, "was a moral phenomenon."

He was the son of a poor sculptor, and his mother was a midwife. His family was unimportant,
although it belonged to an ancient Attic gens. Socrates was rescued from his father's workshop
by a wealthy citizen who perceived his genius, and who educated him at his own expense. He
was twenty when he conversed with Parmenides and Zeno; he was twenty-eight when Phidias adorned
the Parthenon; he was forty when he fought at Potidaea and rescued Alcibiades. At this period
he was most distinguished for his physical strength and endurance,--a brave and patriotic soldier,
insensible to heat and cold, and, though temperate in his habits, capable of drinking more
wine, without becoming intoxicated, than anybody in Athens. His powerful physique and sensual
nature inclined him to self-indulgence, but he early learned to restrain both appetites and
passions. His physiognomy was ugly and his person repulsive; he was awkward, obese, and ungainly;
his nose was flat, his lips were thick, and his neck large; he rolled his eyes, went barefooted,
and wore a dirty old cloak. He spent his time chiefly in the market-place, talking with everybody,
old or young, rich or poor,--soldiers, politicians, artisans, or students; visiting even Aspasia,
the cultivated, wealthy courtesan, with whom he formed a friendship; so that, although he was
very poor,--his whole property being only five minae (about fifty dollars) a year,--it would
seem he lived in "good society."

The ancient Pagans were not so exclusive and aristocratic as the Christians of our day, who
are ambitious of social position. Socrates never seemed to think about his social position
at all, and uniformly acted as if he were well known and prominent. He was listened to because
he was eloquent. His conversation is said to have been charming, and even fascinating. He was
an original and ingenious man, different from everybody else, and was therefore what we call
"a character."

But there was nothing austere or gloomy about him. Though lofty in his inquiries, and serious
in his mind, he resembled neither a Jewish prophet nor a mediaeval sage in his appearance.
He looked rather like a Silenus,--very witty, cheerful, good-natured, jocose, and disposed
to make people laugh. He enjoined no austerities or penances. He was very attractive to the
young, and tolerant of human infirmities, even when he gave the best advice. He was the most
human of teachers. Alcibiades was completely fascinated by his talk, and made good resolutions.

His great peculiarity in conversation was to ask questions,--sometimes to gain information,
but oftener to puzzle and raise a laugh. He sought to expose ignorance, when it was pretentious;
he made all the quacks and shams appear ridiculous. His irony was tremendous; nobody could
stand before his searching and unexpected questions, and he made nearly every one with whom
he conversed appear either as a fool or an ignoramus. He asked his questions with great apparent
modesty, and thus drew a mesh over his opponents from which they could not extricate themselves.
His process was the reductio ad absurdum. Hence he drew upon himself the wrath of the Sophists.
He had no intellectual arrogance, since he professed to know nothing himself, although he was
conscious of his own intellectual superiority. He was contented to show that others knew no
more than he. He had no passion for admiration, no political ambition, no desire for social
distinction; and he associated with men not for what they could do for him, but for what he
could do for them. Although poor, he charged nothing for his teachings. He seemed to despise
riches, since riches could only adorn or pamper the body. He did not live in a cell or a cave
or a tub, but among the people, as an apostle. He must have accepted gifts, since his means
of living were exceedingly small, even for Athens.

He was very practical, even while he lived above the world, absorbed in lofty contemplations.
He was always talking with such as the skin-dressers and leather-dealers, using homely language
for his illustrations, and uttering plain truths. Yet he was equally at home with poets and
philosophers and statesmen. He did not take much interest in that knowledge which was applied
merely to rising in the world. Though plain, practical, and even homely in his conversation,
he was not utilitarian. Science had no charm to him, since it was directed to utilitarian ends
and was uncertain. His sayings had such a lofty, hidden wisdom that very few people understood
him: his utterances seemed either paradoxical, or unintelligible, or sophistical. "To the mentally
proud and mentally feeble he was equally a bore." Most people probably thought him a nuisance,
since he was always about with his questions, puzzling some, confuting others, and reproving
all,--careless of love or hatred, and contemptuous of all conventionalities. So severely dialectical
was he that he seemed to be a hair-splitter. The very Sophists, whose ignorance and pretension
he exposed, looked upon him as a quibbler; although there were some--so severely trained was
the Grecian mind--who saw the drift of his questions, and admired his skill. Probably there
are few educated people in these times who could have understood him any more easily than a
modern audience, even of scholars, could take in one of the orations of Demosthenes, although
they might laugh at the jokes of the sage, and be impressed with the invectives of the orator.

And yet there were defects in Socrates. He was most provokingly sarcastic; he turned everything
to ridicule; he remorselessly punctured every gas-bag he met; he heaped contempt on every snob;
he threw stones at every glass house,--and everybody lived in one. He was not quite just to
the Sophists, for they did not pretend to teach the higher life, but chiefly rhetoric, which
is useful in its way. And if they loved applause and riches, and attached themselves to those
whom they could utilize, they were not different from most fashionable teachers in any age.
And then Socrates was not very delicate in his tastes. He was too much carried away by the
fascinations of Aspasia, when he knew that she was not virtuous,--although it was doubtless
her remarkable intellect which most attracted him, not her physical beauty; since in the "Menexenus"
(by many ascribed to Plato) he is made to recite at length one of her long orations, and in
the "Symposium" he is made to appear absolutely indelicate in his conduct with Alcibiades,
and to make what would be abhorrent to us a matter of irony, although there was the severest
control of the passions.

To me it has always seemed a strange thing that such an ugly, satirical, provoking man could
have won and retained the love of Xanthippe, especially since he was so careless of his dress,
and did so little to provide for the wants of the household. I do not wonder that she scolded
him, or became very violent in her temper; since, in her worst tirades, he only provokingly
laughed at her. A modern Christian woman of society would have left him. But perhaps in Pagan
Athens she could not have got a divorce. It is only in these enlightened and progressive times
that women desert their husbands when they are tantalizing, or when they do not properly support
the family, or spend their time at the clubs or in society,--into which it would seem that
Socrates was received, even the best, barefooted and dirty as he was, and for his intellectual
gifts alone. Think of such a man being the oracle of a modern salon, either in Paris, London,
or New York, with his repulsive appearance, and tantalizing and provoking irony. But in artistic
Athens, at one time, he was all the fashion. Everybody liked to hear him talk. Everybody was
both amused and instructed. He provoked no envy, since he affected modesty and ignorance, apparently
asking his questions for information, and was so meanly clad, and lived in such a poor way.
Though he provoked animosities, he had many friends. If his language was sarcastic, his affections
were kind. He was always surrounded by the most gifted men of his time. The wealthy Crito constantly
attended him; Plato and Xenophon were enthusiastic pupils; even Alcibiades was charmed by his
conversation; Apollodorus and Antisthenes rarely quitted his side; Cebes and Simonides came
from Thebes to hear him; Isocrates and Aristippus followed in his train; Euclid of Megara sought
his society, at the risk of his life; the tyrant Critias, and even the Sophist Protagoras,
acknowledged his marvellous power.

But I cannot linger longer on the man, with his gifts and peculiarities. More important things
demand our attention. I propose briefly to show his contributions to philosophy and ethics.

In regard to the first, I will not dwell on his method, which is both subtle and dialectical.
We are not Greeks. Yet it was his method which revolutionized philosophy. That was original.
He saw this,--that the theories of his day were mere opinions; even the lofty speculations
of the Ionian philosophers were dreams, and the teachings of the Sophists were mere words.
He despised both dreams and words. Speculations ended in the indefinite and insoluble; words
ended in rhetoric. Neither dreams nor words revealed the true, the beautiful, and the good,--which,
to his mind, were the only realities, the only sure foundation for a philosophical system.

So he propounded certain questions, which, when answered, produced glaring contradictions,
from which disputants shrank. Their conclusions broke down their assumptions. They stood convicted
of ignorance, to which all his artful and subtle questions tended, and which it was his aim
to prove. He showed that they did not know what they affirmed. He proved that their definitions
were wrong or incomplete, since they logically led to contradictions; and he showed that for
purposes of disputation the same meaning must always attach to the same word, since in ordinary
language terms have different meanings, partly true and partly false, which produce confusion
in argument. He would be precise and definite, and use the utmost rigor of language, without
which inquirers and disputants would not understand each other. Every definition should include
the whole thing, and nothing else; otherwise, people would not know what they were talking
about, and would be forced into absurdities.

Thus arose the celebrated "definitions,"--the first step in Greek philosophy,--intending to
show what is, and what is not. After demonstrating what is not, Socrates advanced to the demonstration
of what is, and thus laid a foundation for certain knowledge: thus he arrived at clear conceptions
of justice, friendship, patriotism, courage, and other certitudes, on which truth is based.
He wanted only positive truth,--something to build upon,--like Bacon and all great inquirers.
Having reached the certain, he would apply it to all the relations of life, and to all kinds
of knowledge. Unless knowledge is certain, it is worthless,--there is no foundation to build
upon. Uncertain or indefinite knowledge is no knowledge at all; it may be very pretty, or amusing,
or ingenious, but no more valuable for philosophical research than poetry or dreams or speculations.

How far the "definitions" of Socrates led to the solution of the great problems of philosophy,
in the hands of such dialecticians as Plato and Aristotle, I will not attempt to enter upon
here; but this I think I am warranted in saying, that the main object and aim of Socrates,
as a teacher of philosophy, were to establish certain elemental truths, concerning which there
could be no dispute, and then to reason from them,--since they were not mere assumptions, but
certitudes, and certitudes also which appealed to human consciousness, and therefore could
not be overthrown. If I were teaching metaphysics, it would be necessary for me to make clear
this method,--the questions and definitions by which Socrates is thought to have laid the foundation
of true knowledge, and therefore of all healthful advance in philosophy. But for my present
purpose I do not care so much what his method was as what his aim was.

The aim of Socrates, then, being to find out and teach what is definite and certain, as a foundation
of knowledge,--having cleared away the rubbish of ignorance,--he attached very little importance
to what is called physical science. And no wonder, since science in his day was very imperfect.
There were not facts enough known on which to base sound inductions: better, deductions from
established principles. What is deemed most certain in this age was the most uncertain of all
knowledge in his day. Scientific knowledge, truly speaking, there was none. It was all speculation.
Democritus might resolve the material universe--the earth, the sun, and the stars--into combinations
produced by the motion of atoms. But whence the original atoms, and what force gave to them
motion? The proudest philosopher, speculating on the origin of the universe, is convicted of
ignorance.

Much, has been said in praise of the Ionian philosophers; and justly, so far as their genius
and loftiness of character are considered. But what did they discover? What truths did they
arrive at to serve as foundation-stones of science? They were among the greatest intellects
of antiquity. But their method was a wrong one. Their philosophy was based on assumptions and
speculations, and therefore was worthless, since they settled nothing. Their science was based
on inductions which were not reliable, because of a lack of facts. They drew conclusions as
to the origin of the universe from material phenomena. Thales, seeing that plants are sustained
by dew and rain, concluded that water was the first beginning of things. Anaximenes, seeing
that animals die without air, thought that air was the great primal cause. Then Diogenes of
Crete, making a fanciful speculation, imparted to air an intellectual energy. Heraclitus of
Ephesus substituted fire for air. None of the illustrious Ionians reached anything higher,
than that the first cause of all things must be intelligent. The speculations of succeeding
philosophers, living in a more material age, all pertained to the world of matter which they
could see with their eyes. And in close connection with speculations about matter, the cause
of which they could not settle, was indifference to the spiritual nature of man, which they
could not see, and all the wants of the soul, and the existence of the future state, where
the soul alone was of any account. So atheism, and the disbelief of the existence of the soul
after death, characterized that materialism. Without God and without a future, there was no
stimulus to virtue and no foundation for anything. They said, "Let us eat and drink, for to-morrow
we die,"--the essence and spirit of all paganism.

Socrates, seeing how unsatisfactory were all physical inquiries, and what evils materialism
introduced into society, making the body everything and the soul nothing, turned his attention
to the world within, and "for physics substituted morals." He knew the uncertainty of physical
speculation, but believed in the certainty of moral truths. He knew that there was a reality
in justice, in friendship, in courage. Like Job, he reposed on consciousness. He turned his
attention to what afterwards gave immortality to Descartes. To the scepticism of the Sophists
he opposed self-evident truths. He proclaimed the sovereignty of virtue, the universality of
moral obligation. "Moral certitude was the platform from which he would survey the universe."
It was the ladder by which he would ascend to the loftiest regions of knowledge and of happiness.
"Though he was negative in his means, he was positive in his ends." He was the first who had
glimpses of the true mission of philosophy,--even to sit in judgment on all knowledge, whether
it pertains to art, or politics, or science; eliminating the false and retaining the true.
It was his mission to separate truth from error. He taught the world how to weigh evidence.
He would discard any doctrine which, logically carried out, led to absurdity. Instead of turning
his attention to outward phenomena, he dwelt on the truths which either God or consciousness
reveals. Instead of the creation, he dwelt on the Creator. It was not the body he cared for
so much as the soul. Not wealth, not power, not the appetites were the true source of pleasure,
but the peace and harmony of the soul. The inquiry should be, not what we shall eat, but how
shall we resist temptation; how shall we keep the soul pure; how shall we arrive at virtue;
how shall we best serve our country; how shall we best educate our children; how shall we expel
worldliness and deceit and lies; how shall we walk with God?--for there is a God, and there
is immortality and eternal justice: these are the great certitudes of human life, and it is
only by these that the soul will expand and be happy forever.

Thus there was a close connection between his philosophy and his ethics. But it was as a moral
teacher that he won his most enduring fame. The teacher of wisdom became subordinate to the
man who lived it. As a living Christian is nobler than merely an acute theologian, so he who
practises virtue is greater than the one who preaches it. The dissection of the passions is
not so difficult as the regulation of the passions. The moral force of the soul is superior
to the utmost grasp of the intellect. The "Thoughts" of Pascal are all the more read because
the religious life of Pascal is known to have been lofty. Augustine was the oracle of the Middle
Ages, from the radiance of his character as much as from the brilliancy and originality of
his intellect. Bernard swayed society more by his sanctity than by his learning. The useful
life of Socrates was devoted not merely to establish the grounds of moral obligation, in opposition
to the false and worldly teaching of his day, but to the practice of temperance, disinterestedness,
and patriotism. He found that the ideas of his contemporaries centred in the pleasure of the
body: he would make his body subservient to the welfare of the soul. No writer of antiquity
says so much of the soul as Plato, his chosen disciple, and no other one placed so much value
on pure subjective knowledge. His longings after love were scarcely exceeded by Augustine or
St. Theresa,--not for a divine Spouse, but for the harmony of the soul. With longings after
love were, united longings after immortality, when the mind would revel forever in the contemplation
of eternal ideas and the solution of mysteries,--a sort of Dantean heaven. Virtue became the
foundation of happiness, and almost a synonym for knowledge. He discoursed on knowledge in
its connection with virtue, after the fashion of Solomon in his Proverbs. Happiness, virtue,
knowledge: this was the Socratic trinity, the three indissolubly connected together, and forming
the life of the soul,--the only precious thing a man has, since it is immortal, and therefore
to be guarded beyond all bodily and mundane interests. But human nature is frail. The soul
is fettered and bewildered; hence the need of some outside influence, some illumination, to
guard, or to restrain, or guide. "This inspiration, he was persuaded, was imparted to him from
time to time, as he had need, by the monitions of an internal voice which he called [Greek:
daimonion], or daemon,--not a personification, like an angel or devil, but a divine sign or
supernatural voice." From youth he was accustomed to obey this prohibitory voice, and to speak
of it,--a voice "which forbade him to enter on public life," or to take any thought for a prepared
defence on his trial. The Fathers of the Church regarded this daemon as a devil, probably from
the name; but it is not far, in its real meaning, from the "divine grace" of St. Augustine
and of all men famed for Christian experience,--that restraining grace which keeps good men
from folly or sin.

Socrates, again, divorced happiness from pleasure,--identical things, with most pagans. Happiness
is the peace and harmony of the soul; pleasure comes from animal sensations, or the gratification
of worldly and ambitious desires, and therefore is often demoralizing. Happiness is an elevated
joy,--a beatitude, existing with pain and disease, when the soul is triumphant over the body;
while pleasure is transient, and comes from what is perishable. Hence but little account should
be made of pain and suffering, or even of death. The life is more than meat, and virtue is
its own reward. There is no reward of virtue in mere outward and worldly prosperity; and, with
virtue, there is no evil in adversity. One must do right because it is right, not because it
is expedient: he must do right, whatever advantages may appear by not doing it. A good citizen
must obey the laws, because they are laws: he may not violate them because temporal and immediate
advantages are promised. A wise man, and therefore a good man, will be temperate. He must neither
eat nor drink to excess. But temperance is not abstinence. Socrates not only enjoined temperance
as a great virtue, but he practised it. He was a model of sobriety, and yet he drank wine at
feasts,--at those glorious symposia where he discoursed with his friends on the highest themes.
While he controlled both appetites and passions, in order to promote true happiness,--that
is, the welfare of the soul,--he was not solicitous, as others were, for outward prosperity,
which could not extend beyond mortal life. He would show, by teaching and example, that he
valued future good beyond any transient joy. Hence he accepted poverty and physical discomfort
as very trifling evils. He did not lacerate the body, like Brahmans and monks, to make the
soul independent of it. He was a Greek, and a practical man,--anything but visionary,--and
regarded the body as a sacred temple of the soul, to be kept beautiful; for beauty is as much
an eternal idea as friendship or love. Hence he threw no contempt on art, since art is based
on beauty. He approved of athletic exercises, which strengthened and beautified the body; but
he would not defile the body or weaken it, either by lusts or austerities. Passions were not
to be exterminated but controlled; and controlled by reason, the light within us,--that which
guides to true knowledge, and hence to virtue, and hence to happiness. The law of temperance,
therefore, is self-control.

Courage was another of his certitudes,--that which animated the soldier on the battlefield
with patriotic glow and lofty self-sacrifice. Life is subordinate to patriotism. It was of
but little consequence whether a man died or not, in the discharge of duty. To do right was
the main thing, because it was right. "Like George Fox, he would do right if the world were
blotted out."

The weak point, to my mind, in the Socratic philosophy, considered in its ethical bearings,
was the confounding of virtue with knowledge, and making them identical. Socrates could probably
have explained this difficulty away, for no one more than he appreciated the tyranny of passion
and appetite, which thus fettered the will; according to St. Paul, "The evil that I would not,
that I do." Men often commit sin when the consequences of it and the nature of it press upon
the mind. The knowledge of good and evil does not always restrain a man from doing what he
knows will end in grief and shame. The restraint comes, not from knowledge, but from divine
aid, which was probably what Socrates meant by his daemon,--a warning and a constraining power.

     "Est Deus in nobis, agitante calescimus illo."

But this is not exactly the knowledge which Socrates meant, or Solomon. Alcibiades was taught
to see the loveliness of virtue and to admire it; but he had not the divine and restraining
power, which Socrates called an "inspiration," and others would call "grace." Yet Socrates
himself, with passions and appetites as great as Alcibiades, restrained them,--was assisted
to do so by that divine Power which he recognized, and probably adored. How far he felt his
personal responsibility to this Power I do not know. The sense of personal responsibility to
God is one of the highest manifestations of Christian life, and implies a recognition of God
as a personality, as a moral governor whose eye is everywhere, and whose commands are absolute.
Many have a vague idea of Providence as pervading and ruling the universe, without a sense
of personal responsibility to Him; in other words, without a "fear" of Him, such as Moses taught,
and which is represented by David as "the beginning of wisdom,"--the fear to do wrong, not
only because it is wrong, but also because it is displeasing to Him who can both punish and
reward. I do not believe that Socrates had this idea of God; but I do believe that he recognized
His existence and providence. Most people in Greece and Rome had religious instincts, and believed
in supernatural forces, who exercised an influence over their destiny,--although they called
them "gods," or divinities, and not the "God Almighty" whom Moses taught. The existence of
temples, the offices of priests, and the consultation of oracles and soothsayers, all point
to this. And the people not only believed in the existence of these supernatural powers, to
whom they erected temples and statues, but many of them believed in a future state of rewards
and punishments,--otherwise the names of Minos and Rhadamanthus and other judges of the dead
are unintelligible. Paganism and mythology did not deny the existence and power of gods,--yea,
the immortal gods; they only multiplied their number, representing them as avenging deities
with human passions and frailties, and offering to them gross and superstitious rites of worship.
They had imperfect and even degrading ideas of the gods, but acknowledged their existence and
their power. Socrates emancipated himself from these degrading superstitions, and had a loftier
idea of God than the people, or he would not have been accused of impiety,--that is, a dissent
from the popular belief; although there is one thing which I cannot understand in his life,
and cannot harmonize with his general teachings,--that in his last hours his last act was to
command the sacrifice of a cock to Aesculapius.

But whatever may have been his precise and definite ideas of God and immortality, it is clear
that he soared beyond his contemporaries in his conceptions of Providence and of duty. He was
a reformer and a missionary, preaching a higher morality and revealing loftier truths than
any other person that we know of in pagan antiquity; although there lived in India, about two
hundred years before his day, a sage whom they called Buddha, whom some modern scholars think
approached nearer to Christ than did Socrates or Marcus Aurelius. Very possibly. Have we any
reason to adduce that God has ever been without his witnesses on earth, or ever will be? Why
could he not have imparted wisdom both to Buddha and Socrates, as he did to Abraham, Moses,
and Paul? I look upon Socrates as one of the witnesses and agents of Almighty power on this
earth to proclaim exalted truth and turn people from wickedness. He himself--not indistinctly--claimed
this mission.

Think what a man he was: truly was he a "moral phenomenon." You see a man of strong animal
propensities, but with a lofty soul, appearing in a wicked and materialistic--and possibly
atheistic--age, overturning all previous systems of philosophy, and inculcating a new and higher
law of morals. You see him spending his whole life,--and a long life,--in disinterested teachings
and labors; teaching without pay, attaching himself to youth, working in poverty and discomfort,
indifferent to wealth and honor, and even power, inculcating incessantly the worth and dignity
of the soul, and its amazing and incalculable superiority to all the pleasures of the body
and all the rewards of a worldly life. Who gave to him this wisdom and this almost superhuman
virtue? Who gave to him this insight into the fundamental principles of morality? Who, in this
respect, made him a greater light and a clearer expounder than the Christian Paley? Who made
him, in all spiritual discernment, a wiser man than the gifted John Stuart Mill, who seems
to have been a candid searcher after truth? In the wisdom of Socrates you see some higher force
than intellectual hardihood or intellectual clearness. How much this pagan did to emancipate
and elevate the soul! How much he did to present the vanities and pursuits of worldly men in
their true light! What a rebuke were his life and doctrines to the Epicureanism which was pervading
all classes of society, and preparing the way for ruin! Who cannot see in him a forerunner
of that greater Teacher who was the friend of publicans and sinners; who rejected the leaven
of the Pharisees and the speculations of the Sadducees; who scorned the riches and glories
of the world; who rebuked everything pretentious and arrogant; who enjoined humility and self-abnegation;
who exposed the ignorance and sophistries of ordinary teachers; and who propounded to his disciples
no such "miserable interrogatory" as "Who shall show us any good?" but a higher question for
their solution and that of all pleasure-seeking and money-hunting people to the end of time,--"What
shall a man give in exchange for his soul?"

It very rarely happens that a great benefactor escapes persecution, especially if he is persistent
in denouncing false opinions which are popular, or prevailing follies and sins. As the Scribes
and Pharisees, who had been so severely and openly exposed in all their hypocrisies by our
Lord, took the lead in causing his crucifixion, so the Sophists and tyrants of Athens headed
the fanatical persecution of Socrates because he exposed their shallowness and worldliness,
and stung them to the quick by his sarcasms and ridicule. His elevated morality and lofty spiritual
life do not alone account for the persecution. If he had let persons alone, and had not ridiculed
their opinions and pretensions, they would probably have let him alone. Galileo aroused the
wrath of the Inquisition not for his scientific discoveries, but because he ridiculed the Dominican
and Jesuit guardians of the philosophy of the Middle Ages, and because he seemed to undermine
the authority of the Scriptures and of the Church: his boldness, his sarcasms, and his mocking
spirit were more offensive than his doctrines. The Church did not persecute Kepler or Pascal.
The Athenians may have condemned Xenophanes and Anaxagoras, yet not the other Ionian philosophers,
nor the lofty speculations of Plato; but they murdered Socrates because they hated him. It
was not pleasant to the gay leaders of Athenian society to hear the utter vanity of their worldly
lives painted with such unsparing severity, nor was it pleasant to the Sophists and rhetoricians
to see their idols overthrown, and they themselves exposed as false teachers and shallow pretenders.
No one likes to see himself held up to scorn and mockery; nobody is willing to be shown up
as ignorant and conceited. The people of Athens did not like to see their gods ridiculed, for
the logical sequence of the teachings of Socrates was to undermine the popular religion. It
was very offensive to rich and worldly people to be told that their riches and pleasures were
transient and worthless. It was impossible that those rhetoricians who gloried in words, those
Sophists who covered up the truth, those pedants who prided themselves on their technicalities,
those politicians who lived by corruption, those worldly fathers who thought only of pushing
the fortunes of their children, should not see in Socrates their uncompromising foe; and when
he added mockery and ridicule to contempt, and piqued their vanity, and offended their pride,
they bitterly hated him and wished him out of the way. My wonder is that he should have been
tolerated until he was seventy years of age. Men less offensive than he have been burned alive,
and stoned to death, and tortured on the rack, and devoured by lions in the amphitheatre. It
is the fate of prophets to be exiled, or slandered, or jeered at, or stigmatized, or banished
from society,--to be subjected to some sort of persecution; but when prophets denounce woes,
and utter invectives, and provoke by stinging sarcasms, they have generally been killed. No
matter how enlightened society is, or tolerant the age, he who utters offensive truths will
be disliked, and in some way punished.

So Socrates must meet the fate of all benefactors who make themselves disliked and hated. First
the great comic poet Aristophanes, in his comedy called the "Clouds," held him up to ridicule
and reproach, and thus prepared the way for his arraignment and trial. He is made to utter
a thousand impieties and impertinences. He is made to talk like a man of the greatest vanity
and conceit, and to throw contempt and scorn on everybody else. It is not probable that the
poet entered into any formal conspiracy against him, but found him a good subject of raillery
and mockery, since Socrates was then very unpopular, aside from his moral teachings, for being
declared by the oracle of Delphi the wisest man in the world, and for having been intimate
with the two men whom the Athenians above all men justly execrated,--Critias, the chief of
the Thirty Tyrants whom Lysander had imposed, or at least consented to, after the Peloponnesian
war; and Alcibiades, whose evil counsels had led to an unfortunate expedition, and who in addition
had proved himself a traitor to his country.

Public opinion being now against him, on various grounds he is brought to trial before the
Dikastery,--a board of some five hundred judges, leading citizens of Athens. One of his chief
accusers was Anytus,--a rich tradesman, of very narrow mind, personally hostile to Socrates
because of the influence the philosopher had exerted over his son, yet who then had considerable
influence from the active part he had taken in the expulsion of the Thirty Tyrants. The more
formidable accuser was Meletus,--a poet and a rhetorician, who had been irritated by Socrates'
terrible cross-examinations. The principal charges against him were, that he did not admit
the gods acknowledged by the republic, and that he corrupted the youth of Athens.

In regard to the first charge, it could not be technically proved that he had assailed the
gods, for he was exact in his legal worship; but really and virtually there was some foundation
for the accusation, since Socrates was a religious innovator if ever there was one. His lofty
realism was subversive of popular superstitions, when logically carried out. As to the second
charge, of corrupting youth, this was utterly groundless; for he had uniformly enjoined courage,
and temperance, and obedience to the laws, and patriotism, and the control of the passions,
and all the higher sentiments of the soul But the tendency of his teachings was to create in
young men contempt for all institutions based on falsehood or superstition or tyranny, and
he openly disapproved some of the existing laws,--such as choosing magistrates by lot,--and
freely expressed his opinions. In a narrow and technical sense there was some reason for this
charge; for if a young man came to combat his father's business or habits of life or general
opinions, in consequence of his own superior enlightenment, it might be made out that he had
not sufficient respect for his father, and thus was failing in the virtues of reverence and
filial obedience.

Considering the genius and innocence of the accused, he did not make an able defence; he might
have done better. It appeared as if he did not wish to be acquitted. He took no thought of
what he should say; he made no preparation for so great an occasion. He made no appeal to the
passions and feelings of his judges. He refused the assistance of Lysias, the greatest orator
of the day. He brought neither his wife nor children to incline the judges in his favor by
their sighs and tears. His discourse was manly, bold, noble, dignified, but without passion
and without art. His unpremeditated replies seemed to scorn an elaborate defence. He even seemed
to rebuke his judges, rather than to conciliate them. On the culprit's bench he assumed the
manners of a teacher. He might easily have saved himself, for there was but a small majority
(only five or six at the first vote) for his condemnation. And then he irritated his judges
unnecessarily. According to the laws he had the privilege of proposing a substitution for his
punishment, which would have been accepted,--exile for instance; but, with a provoking and
yet amusing irony, he asked to be supported at the public expense in the Prytaneum: that is,
he asked for the highest honor of the republic. For a condemned criminal to ask this was audacity
and defiance.

We cannot otherwise suppose than that he did not wish to be acquitted. He wished to die. The
time had come; he had fulfilled his mission; he was old and poor; his condemnation would bring
his truths before the world in a more impressive form. He knew the moral greatness of a martyr's
death. He reposed in the calm consciousness of having rendered great services, of having made
important revelations. He never had an ignoble love of life; death had no terrors to him at
any time. So he was perfectly resigned to his fate. Most willingly he accepted the penalty
of plain speaking, and presented no serious remonstrances and no indignant denials. Had he
pleaded eloquently for his life, he would not have fulfilled his mission. He acted with amazing
foresight; he took the only course which would secure a lasting influence. He knew that his
death would evoke a new spirit of inquiry, which would spread over the civilized world. It
was a public disappointment that he did not defend himself with more earnestness. But he was
not seeking applause for his genius,--simply the final triumph of his cause, best secured by
martyrdom.

So he received his sentence with evident satisfaction; and in the interval between it and his
execution he spent his time in cheerful but lofty conversations with his disciples. He unhesitatingly
refused to escape from his prison when the means would have been provided. His last hours were
of immortal beauty. His friends were dissolved in tears, but he was calm, composed, triumphant;
and when he lay down to die he prayed that his migration to the unknown land might be propitious.
He died without pain, as the hemlock produced only torpor.

His death, as may well be supposed, created a profound impression. It was one of the most memorable
events of the pagan world, whose greatest light was extinguished,--no, not extinguished, since
it has been shining ever since in the "Memorabilia" of Xenophon and the "Dialogues" of Plato.
Too late the Athenians repented of their injustice and cruelty. They erected to his memory
a brazen statue, executed by Lysippus. His character and his ideas are alike immortal. The
schools of Athens properly date from his death, about the year 400 B.C., and these schools
redeemed the shame of her loss of political power. The Socratic philosophy, as expounded by
Plato, survived the wrecks of material greatness. It entered even into the Christian schools,
especially at Alexandria; it has ever assisted and animated the earnest searchers after the
certitudes of life; it has permeated the intellectual world, and found admirers and expounders
in all the universities of Europe and America. "No man has ever been found," says Grote, "strong
enough to bend the bow of Socrates, the father of philosophy, the most original thinker of
antiquity." His teachings gave an immense impulse to civilization, but they could not reform
or save the world; it was too deeply sunk in the infamies and immoralities of an Epicurean
life. Nor was his philosophy ever popular in any age of our world. It never will be popular
until the light which men hate shall expel the darkness which they love. But it has been the
comfort and the joy of an esoteric few,--the witnesses of truth whom God chooses, to keep alive
the virtues and the ideas which shall ultimately triumph over all the forces of evil.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUTHORITIES.

The direct sources are chiefly Plato (Jowett's translation) and Xenophon. Indirect sources:
chiefly Aristotle, Metaphysics; Diogenes Laertius's Lives of Philosophers; Grote's History
of Greece; Brandis's Plato, in Smith's Dictionary; Ralph Waldo Emerson's Representative Men;
Cicero on Immortality; J. Martineau, Essay on Plato; Thirlwall's History of Greece. See also
the late work of Curtius; Ritter's History of Philosophy; F.D. Maurice's History of Moral Philosophy;
G. H. Lewes' Biographical History of Philosophy; Hampden's Fathers of Greek Philosophy; J.S.
Blackie's Wise Men of Greece; Starr King's Lecture on Socrates; Smith's Biographical Dictionary;
Ueberweg's History of Philosophy; W.A. Butler's History of Ancient Philosophy; Grote's Aristotle.

PHIDIAS

500-430 B.C.

GREEK ART.

I suppose there is no subject, at this time, which interests cultivated people in favored circumstances
more than Art. They travel in Europe, they visit galleries, they survey cathedrals, they buy
pictures, they collect old china, they learn to draw and paint, they go into ecstasies over
statues and bronzes, they fill their houses with bric-á-brac, they assume a cynical criticism,
or gossip pedantically, whether they know what they are talking about or not. In short, the
contemplation of Art is a fashion, concerning which it is not well to be ignorant, and about
which there is an amazing amount of cant, pretension, and borrowed opinions. Artists themselves
differ in their judgments, and many who patronize them have no severity of discrimination.
We see bad pictures on the walls of private palaces, as well as in public galleries, for which
fabulous prices are paid because they are, or are supposed to be, the creation of great masters,
or because they are rare like old books in an antiquarian library, or because fashion has given
them a fictitious value, even when these pictures fail to create pleasure or emotion in those
who view them. And yet there is great enjoyment, to some people, in the contemplation of a
beautiful building or statue or painting,--as of a beautiful landscape or of a glorious sky.
The ideas of beauty, of grace, of grandeur, which are eternal, are suggested to the mind and
soul; and these cultivate and refine in proportion as the mind and soul are enlarged, especially
among the rich, the learned, and the favored classes. So, in high civilizations, especially
material, Art is not only a fashion but a great enjoyment, a lofty study, and a theme of general
criticism and constant conversation.

It is my object, of course, to present the subject historically, rather than critically. My
criticisms would be mere opinions, worth no more than those of thousands of other people. As
a public teacher to those who may derive some instruction from my labors and studies, I presume
to offer only reflections on Art as it existed among the Greeks, and to show its developments
in an historical point of view.

The reader may be surprised that I should venture to present Phidias as one of the benefactors
of the world, when so little is known about him, or can be known about him. So far as the man
is concerned, I might as well lecture on Melchizedek, or Pharaoh, or one of the dukes of Edom.
There are no materials to construct a personal history which would be interesting, such as
abound in reference to Michael Angelo or Raphael. Thus he must be made the mere text of a great
subject. The development of Art is an important part of the history of civilization. The influence
of Art on human culture and happiness is prodigious. Ancient Grecian art marks one of the stepping-stones
of the race. Any man who largely contributed to its development was a world-benefactor.

Now, history says this much of Phidias: that he lived in the time of Pericles,--in the culminating
period of Grecian glory,--and ornamented the Parthenon with his unrivalled statues; which Parthenon
was to Athens what Solomon's Temple was to Jerusalem,--a wonder, a pride, and a glory. His
great contribution to that matchless edifice was the statue of Minerva, made of gold and ivory,
forty feet in height, the gold of which alone was worth forty-four talents,--about fifty-thousand
dollars,--an immense sum when gold was probably worth more than twenty times its present value.
All antiquity was unanimous in its praise of this statue, and the exactness and finish of its
details were as remarkable as the grandeur and majesty of its proportions. Another of the famous
works of Phidias was the bronze statue of Minerva, which was the glory of the Acropolis, This
was sixty feet in height. But even this yielded to the colossal statue of Zeus or Jupiter in
his great temple at Olympia, representing the figure in a sitting posture, forty feet high,
on a throne made of gold, ebony, ivory, and precious stones. In this statue the immortal artist
sought to represent power in repose, as Michael Angelo did in his statue of Moses. This statue,
removed to Constantinople by Theodosius the Great, remained undestroyed until the year 475 A.D.

Phidias also executed various other works,--all famous in his day,--which have, however, perished;
but many executed under his superintendence still remain, and are universally admired for their
grace and majesty of form. The great master himself was probably vastly superior to any of
his disciples, and impressed his genius on the age, having, so far as we know, no rival among
his contemporaries, as he has had no successor among the moderns of equal originality and power,
unless it be Michael Angelo. His distinguished excellence was simplicity and grandeur; and
he was to sculpture what Aeschylus was to tragic poetry,--sublime and grand, representing ideal
excellence, Though his works have perished, the ideas he represented still live. His fame is
immortal, though we know so little about him. It is based on the admiration of antiquity, on
the universal praise which his creations extorted even from the severest critics in an age
of Art, when the best energies of an ingenious people were directed to it with the absorbing
devotion now given to mechanical inventions and those pursuits which make men rich and comfortable.
It would be interesting to know the private life of this great artist, his ardent loves and
fierce resentments, his social habits, his public honors and triumphs,--but this is mere speculation.
We may presume that he was rich, flattered, and admired,--the companion of great statesmen,
rulers, and generals; not a persecuted man like Dante, but honored like Raphael; one of the
fortunate of earth, since he was a master of what was most valued in his day.

But it is the work which he represents--and still more comprehensively Art itself in the ancient
world--to which I would call your attention, especially the expression of Art in buildings,
in statues, and in pictures.

"Art" is itself a very great word, and means many things; it is applied to style in writing,
to musical compositions, and even to effective eloquence, as well as to architecture, sculpture,
and painting. We speak of music as artistic,--and not foolishly; of an artistic poet, or an
artistic writer like Voltaire or Macaulay; of an artistic preacher,--by which we mean that
each and all move the sensibilities and souls and minds of men by adherence to certain harmonies
which accord with fixed ideas of grace, beauty, and dignity. Eternal ideas which the mind conceives
are the foundation of Art, as they are of Philosophy. Art claims to be creative, and is in
a certain sense inspired, like the genius of a poet. However material the creation, the spirit
which gives beauty to it is of the mind and soul. Imagination is tasked to its utmost stretch
to portray sentiments and passions in the way that makes the deepest impression. The marble
bust becomes animated, and even the temple consecrated to the deity becomes religious, in proportion
as these suggest the ideas and sentiments which kindle the soul to admiration and awe. These
feelings belong to every one by nature, and are most powerful when most felicitously called
out by the magic of the master, who requires time and labor to perfect his skill. Art is therefore
popular, and appeals to every one, but to those most who live in the great ideas on which it
is based. The peasant stands awe-struck before the majestic magnitude of a cathedral; the man
of culture is roused to enthusiasm by the contemplation of its grand proportions, or graceful
outlines, or bewitching details, because he sees in them the realization of his ideas of beauty,
grace, and majesty, which shine forever in unutterable glory,--indestructible ideas which survive
all thrones and empires, and even civilizations. They are as imperishable as stars and suns
and rainbows and landscapes, since these unfold new beauties as the mind and soul rest upon
them. Whenever, then, man creates an image or a picture which reveals these eternal but indescribable
beauties, and calls forth wonder or enthusiasm, and excites refined pleasures, he is an artist.
He impresses, to a greater or less degree, every order and class of men. He becomes a benefactor,
since he stimulates exalted sentiments, which, after all, are the real glory and pride of life,
and the cause of all happiness and virtue,--in cottage or in palace, amid hard toils as well
as in luxurious leisure. He is a self-sustained man, since he revels in ideas rather than in
praises and honors. Like the man of virtue, he finds in the adoration of the deity he worships
his highest reward. It is indeed the exalted soul going forth triumphant over external difficulties,
jubilant and melodious even in poverty and neglect, rising above all the evils of life, revelling
in the glories which are impenetrable, and living--for the time--in the realm of deities and
angels. When Art has been prostituted to pander to perverted tastes, or has been stimulated
by thirst for gain, then inferior works only have been created. Fra Angelico lived secluded
in a convent when he painted his exquisite Madonnas. It was the exhaustion of the nervous energies
consequent on superhuman toils, rather than the luxuries and pleasures which his position and
means afforded, which killed Raphael at thirty-seven.

The artists of Greece did not live for utilities any more than did the Ionian philosophers,
but in those glorious thoughts and creations which were their chosen joy. Whatever can be reached
by the unaided powers of man was attained by them. Grecian artists have been the teachers of
all nations and all ages in architecture, sculpture, and painting. How far they were themselves
original we cannot tell. We do not know how much they were indebted to Egyptians, Phoenicians,
and Assyrians, but in real excellence they have never been surpassed. It was a comparatively
Pagan age in Italy when the great artists arose who succeeded Da Vinci, especially under the
patronage of the Medici and the Medicean popes. Christianity has only modified Art by purifying
it from sensual attractions. Christianity added very little to Art, until cathedrals arose
in their grand proportions and infinite details, and until artists sought to portray in the
faces of their Saints and Madonnas the seraphic sentiments of Christian love and angelic purity.
Art even declined in the Roman world from the second century after Christ, in spite of all
the efforts of Christian emperors. In fact neither Christianity nor Paganism creates it; it
seems to be independent of both, and arises from the peculiar genius and circumstances of an
age. Make Art a fashion, honor and reward it, crown its great masters with Olympic leaves,
direct the energies of an age or race upon it, and we probably shall have great creations,
whether the people are Christian or Pagan. So that Art seems to be a human creation, rather
than a divine inspiration. It is the result of genius, stimulated by circumstances and directed
to the contemplation of ideal excellence.

Much has been written on those principles upon which Art is supposed to be founded, but not
very satisfactorily, although great learning and ingenuity have been displayed. It is difficult
to conceive of beauty or grace by definitions,---as difficult as it is to define love or any
other ultimate sentiment of the soul. "Metaphysics, mathematics, music, and philosophy," says
Cleghorn, "have been called in to analyze, define, demonstrate, or generalize," Great critics,
like Burke, Alison, and Stewart, have written interesting treatises on beauty and taste. Leigh
speaks of it as the music of the age." These definitions do not much assist us. We fall back
on our own conceptions or intuitions, as probably did Phidias, although Art in Greece could
hardly have attained such perfection without the aid which poetry and history and philosophy
alike afforded. Art can flourish only as the taste of the people becomes cultivated, and by
the assistance of many kinds of knowledge. The mere contemplation of Nature is not enough.
Savages have no art at all, even when they live amid grand mountains and beside the ever-changing
sea. When Phidias was asked how he conceived his Olympian Jove, he referred to Homer's poems.
Michael Angelo was enabled to paint the saints and sibyls of the Sistine Chapel from familiarity
with the writings of the Jewish prophets. Isaiah inspired him as truly as Homer inspired Phidias.
The artists of the age of Phidias were encouraged and assisted by the great poets, historians,
and philosophers who basked in the sunshine of Pericles, even as the great men in the Court
of Elizabeth derived no small share of their renown from her glorious appreciation. Great artists
appear in clusters, and amid the other constellations that illuminate the intellectual heavens.
They all mutually assist each other. When Rome lost her great men, Art declined. When the egotism
of Louis XIV. extinguished genius, the great lights in all departments disappeared. So Art
is indebted not merely to the contemplation of ideal beauty, but to the influence of great
ideas permeating society,--such as when the age of Phidias was kindled with the great thoughts
of Socrates, Democritus, Thucydides, Euripides, Aristophanes, and others, whether contemporaries
or not; a sort of Augustan or Elizabethan age, never to appear but once among the same people.

Now, in reference to the history or development of ancient Art, until it culminated in the
age of Pericles, we observe that its first expression was in architecture, and was probably
the result of religious sentiments, when nations were governed by priests, and not distinguished
for intellectual life. Then arose the temples of Egypt, of Assyria, of India. They are grand,
massive, imposing, but not graceful or beautiful. They arose from blended superstition and
piety, and were probably erected before the palaces of kings, and in Egypt by the dynasty that
builded the older pyramids. Even those ambitious and prodigious monuments, which have survived
every thing contemporaneous, indicate the reign of sacerdotal monarchs and artists who had
no idea of beauty, but only of permanence. They do not indicate civilization, but despotism,--unless
it be that they were erected for astronomical purposes, as some maintain, rather than as sepulchres
for kings. But this supposition involves great mathematical attainments. It is difficult to
conceive of such a waste of labor by enlightened princes, acquainted with astronomical and
mathematical knowledge and mechanical forces, for Herodotus tells us that one hundred thousand
men toiled on the Great Pyramid during forty years. What for? Surely it is hard to suppose
that such a pile was necessary for the observation of the polar star; and still less probably
was it built as a sepulchre for a king, since no covered sarcophagus has ever been found in
it, nor have even any hieroglyphics. The mystery seems impenetrable.

But the temples are not mysteries. They were built also by sacerdotal monarchs, in honor of
the deity. But these enormous structures were not marked by beauty of proportion or fitness
of ornament; they show the power of kings, not the genius of a nation. They may have compelled
awe; they did not kindle admiration. The emotion they called out was such as is produced now
by great engineering exploits, involving labor and mechanical skill, not suggestive of grace
or harmony, which require both taste and genius. The same is probably true of Solomon's temple,
built at a much later period, when Art had been advanced somewhat by the Phoenicians, to whose
assistance it seems he was much indebted. We cannot conceive how that famous structure should
have employed one hundred and fifty thousand men for eleven years, and have cost what would
now be equal to $200,000,000, from any description which has come down to us, or any ruins
which remain, unless it were surrounded by vast courts and colonnades, and ornamented by a
profuse expenditure of golden plates,--which also evince both power and money rather than architectural
genius.

After the erection of temples came the building of palaces for kings, equally distinguished
for vast magnitude and mechanical skill, but deficient in taste and beauty, showing the infancy
of Art. Yet even these were in imitation of the temples. And as kings became proud and secular,
probably their palaces became grander and larger,--like the palaces of Nebuchadnezzar and Rameses
the Great and the Persian monarchs at Susa, combining labor, skill, expenditure, dazzling the
eye by the number of columns and statues and vast apartments, yet still deficient in beauty
and grace.

It was not until the Greeks applied their wonderful genius to architecture that it became the
expression of a higher civilization. And, as among Egyptians, Art in Greece is first seen in
temples; for the earlier Greeks were religious, although they worshipped the deity under various
names, and in the forms which their own hands did make. We see great thickness of columns,
a fitting proportion to the capitals, and a beautiful entablature. The horizontal lines of
the architrave and cornice predominate over the vertical lines of the columns. The temple arises
in the severity of geometrical forms. The Doric column was not entirely a new creation, but
was an improvement on the Egyptian model,--less massive, more elegant, fluted, increasing gradually
towards the base, with a slight convexed swelling downward, about six diameters in height,
superimposed by capitals. And yet while the style of all the Doric temples is the same, there
are hardly two temples alike, being varied by the different proportions of the column, which
is the peculiar mark of Grecian architecture, even as the arch is the feature of Gothic architecture.
The later Doric was less massive than the earlier, but more rich in sculptured ornaments. The
pedestal was from two thirds to a whole diameter of a column in height, built in three courses,
forming as it were steps to the platform on which the pillar rested. From the pediment the
beautiful cornice projects with various mouldings, while at the base and at the apex are sculptured
monuments representing both men and animals. The graceful outline of the columns, and the variety
of light and shade arising from the arrangement of mouldings and capitals, produced an effect
exceedingly beautiful. All the glories of this order of architecture culminated in the Parthenon,--built
of Pentelic marble, resting on a basement of limestone, surrounded with forty-eight fluted
columns of six feet and two inches diameter at the base and thirty-four feet in height, the
frieze and pediment elaborately ornamented with reliefs and statues, while within the cella
or interior was the statue of Minerva, forty feet high, built of gold and ivory. The walls
were decorated with the rarest paintings, and the cella itself contained countless treasures.
This unrivalled temple was not so large as some of the cathedrals of the Middle Ages, but it
covered twelve times the ground of the temple of Solomon, and from the summit of the Acropolis
it shone as a wonder and a glory. The marbles have crumbled and its ornaments have been removed,
but it has formed the model of the most beautiful buildings of the world, from the Quirinus
at Rome to the Madeleine at Paris, stimulating alike the genius of Michael Angelo and Christopher
Wren, immortal in the ideas it has perpetuated, and immeasurable in the influence it has exerted.
Who has copied the Flavian amphitheatre except as a convenient form for exhibitors on the stage,
or for the rostrum of an orator? Who has not copied the Parthenon as the severest in its proportions
for public buildings for civic purposes?

The Ionic architecture is only a modification of the Doric,--its columns more slender and with
a greater number of flutes, and capitals more elaborate, formed with volutes or spiral scrolls,
while its pediment, the triangular facing of the portico, is formed with a less angle from
the base,--the whole being more suggestive of grace than strength. Vitruvius, the greatest
authority among the ancients, says that "the Greeks, in inventing these two kinds of columns,
imitated in the one the naked simplicity and aspects of a man, and in the other the delicacy
and ornaments of a woman, whose ringlets appear in the volutes of the capital."

The Corinthian order, which was the most copied by the Romans, was still more ornamented, with
foliated capitals, greater height, and a more decorated entablature.

But the principles of all these three orders are substantially the same,--their beauty consisting
in the column and horizontal lines, even as vertical lines marked the Gothic. We see the lintel
and not the arch; huge blocks of stone perfectly squared, and not small stones irregularly
laid; external rather than internal pillars, the cella receiving light from the open roof above,
rather than from windows; a simple outline uninterrupted,--generally in the form of a parallelogram,--rather
than broken by projections. There is no great variety; but the harmony, the severity, and beauty
of proportion will eternally be admired, and can never be improved,--a temple of humanity,
cheerful, useful, complete, not aspiring to reach what on earth can never be obtained, with
no gloomy vaults speaking of maceration and grief, no lofty towers and spires soaring to the
sky, no emblems typical of consecrated sentiments and of immortality beyond the grave, but
rich in ornaments drawn from the living world,--of plants and animals, of man in the perfection
of physical strength, of woman in the unapproachable loveliness of grace of form. As the world
becomes pagan, intellectual, thrifty, we see the architecture of the Greeks in palaces, banks,
halls, theatres, stores, libraries; when it is emotional, poetic, religious, fervent, aspiring,
we see the restoration of the Gothic in churches, cathedrals, schools,--for Philosophy and
Art did all they could to civilize the world before Christianity was sent to redeem it and
prepare mankind for the life above. Such was the temple of the Greeks, reappearing in all the
architectures of nations, from the Romans to our own times,--so perfect that no improvements
have subsequently been made, no new principles discovered which were not known to Vitruvius.
What a creation, to last in its simple beauty for more than two thousand years, and forever
to remain a perfect model of its kind! Ah, that was a triumph of Art, the praises of which
have been sung for more than sixty generations, and will be sung for hundreds yet to come.
But how hidden and forgotten the great artists who invented all this, showing the littleness
of man and the greatness of Art itself. How true that old Greek saying, "Life is short, but
Art is long."

But the genius displayed in sculpture was equally remarkable, and was carried to the same perfection.
The Greeks did not originate sculpture. We read of sculptured images from remotest antiquity.
Assyria, Egypt, and India are full of relics. But these are rude, unformed, without grace,
without expression, though often colossal and grand. There are but few traces of emotion, or
passion, or intellectual force. Everything which has come down from the ancient monarchies
is calm, impassive, imperturbable. Nor is there a severe beauty of form. There is no grace,
no loveliness, that we should desire them. Nature was not severely studied. We see no aspiration
after what is ideal. Sometimes the sculptures are grotesque, unnatural, and impure. They are
emblematic of strange deities, or are rude monuments of heroes and kings. They are curious,
but they do not inspire us. We do not copy them; we turn away from them. They do not live,
and they are not reproduced. Art could spare them all, except as illustrations of its progress.
They are merely historical monuments, to show despotism and superstition, and the degradation
of the people.

But this cannot be said of the statues which the Greeks created, or improved from ancient models.
In the sculptures of the Greeks we see the utmost perfection of the human form, both of man
and woman, learned by the constant study of anatomy and of nude figures of the greatest beauty.
A famous statue represented the combined excellences of perhaps one hundred different persons.
The study of the human figure became a noble object of ambition, and led to conceptions of
ideal grace and loveliness such as no one human being perhaps ever possessed in all respects.
And not merely grace and beauty were thus represented in marble or bronze, but dignity, repose,
majesty. We see in those figures which have survived the ravages of time suggestions of motion,
rest, grace, grandeur,--every attitude, every posture, every variety of form. We see also every
passion which moves the human soul,--grief, rage, agony, shame, joy, peace. But it is the perfection
of form which is most wonderful and striking. Nor did the artists work to please the vulgar
rich, but to realize their own highest conceptions, and to represent sentiments in which the
whole nation shared. They sought to instruct; they appealed to the highest intelligence. "Some
sought to represent tender beauty, others daring power, and others again heroic grandeur."
Grecian statuary began with ideal representations of deities; then it produced the figures
of gods and goddesses in mortal forms; then the portrait-statues of distinguished men. This
art was later in its development than architecture, since it was directed to ornamenting what
had already nearly reached perfection. Thus Phidias ornamented the Parthenon in the time of
Pericles, when sculpture was purest and most ideal In some points of view it declined after
Phidias, but in other respects it continued to improve until it culminated in Lysippus, who
was contemporaneous with Alexander. He is said to have executed fifteen hundred statues, and
to have displayed great energy of execution. He idealized human beauty, and imitated Nature
to the minutest details. He alone was selected to make the statue of Alexander, which is lost.
None of his works, which were chiefly in bronze, are extant; but it is supposed that the famous
Hercules and the Torso Belvedere are copies from his works, since his favorite subject was
Hercules. We only can judge of his great merits from his transcendent reputation and the criticism
of classic writers, and also from the works that have come down to us which are supposed to
be imitations of his masterpieces. It was his scholars who sculptured the Colossus of Rhodes,
the Laocoön, and the Dying Gladiator. After him plastic art rapidly degenerated, since it appealed
to passion, especially under Praxiteles, who was famous for his undraped Venuses and the expression
of sensual charms. The decline of Art was rapid as men became rich, and Epicurean life was
sought as the highest good. Skill of execution did not decline, but ideal beauty was lost sight
of, until the art itself was prostituted--as among the Romans--to please perverted tastes or
to flatter senatorial pride.

But our present theme is not the history of decline, but of the original creations of genius,
which have been copied in every succeeding age, and which probably will never be surpassed,
except in some inferior respects,--in mere mechanical skill. The Olympian Jove of Phidias lives
perhaps in the Moses of Michael Angelo, great as was his original genius, even as the Venus
of Praxiteles may have been reproduced in Powers's Greek Slave. The great masters had innumerable
imitators, not merely in the representation of man but of animals. What a study did these artists
excite, especially in their own age, and how honorable did they make their noble profession
even in degenerate times! They were the school-masters of thousands and tens of thousands,
perpetuating their ideas to remotest generations. Their instructions were not lost, and never
can be lost in a realm which constitutes one of the proudest features of our own civilization.
It is true that Christianity does not teach aesthetic culture, but it teaches the duties which
prevent the eclipse of Art. In this way it comes to the rescue of Art when in danger of being
perverted. Grecian Art was consecrated to Paganism,--but, revived, it may indirectly be made
tributary to Christianity, like music and eloquence. It will not conserve Christianity, but
may be purified by it, even if able to flourish without it.

I can now only glance at the third development of Grecian Art, as seen in painting.

It is not probable that such perfection was reached in this art as in sculpture and architecture.
We have no means of forming incontrovertible opinions. Most of the ancient pictures have perished;
and those that remain, while they show correctness of drawing and brilliant coloring, do not
give us as high conceptions of ideal beauties as do the pictures of the great masters of modern
times. But we have the testimony of the ancients themselves, who were as enthusiastic in their
admiration of pictures as they were of statues. And since their taste was severe, and their
sensibility as to beauty unquestioned, we have a right to infer that even painting was carried
to considerable perfection among the Greeks. We read of celebrated schools,--like the modern
schools of Florence, Rome, Bologna, Venice, and Naples. The schools of Sicyon, Corinth, Athens,
and Rhodes were as famous in their day as the modern schools to which I have alluded.

Painting, being strictly a decoration, did not reach a high degree of art, like sculpture,
until architecture was perfected. But painting is very ancient. The walls of Babylon, it is
asserted by the ancient historians, were covered with paintings. Many survive amid the ruins
of Egypt and on the chests of mummies; though these are comparatively rude, without regard
to light and shade, like Chinese pictures. Nor do they represent passions and emotions. They
aimed to perpetuate historical events, not ideas. The first paintings of the Greeks simply
marked out the outline of figures. Next appeared the inner markings, as we see in ancient vases,
on a white ground. The effects of light and shade were then introduced; and then the application
of colors in accordance with Nature. Cimon of Cleonae, in the eightieth Olympiad, invented
the art of "fore-shortening," and hence was the first painter of perspective. Polygnotus, a
contemporary of Phidias, was nearly as famous for painting as he was for sculpture. He is said
to have been a great epic painter, as Phidias was an epic sculptor and Homer an epic poet.
He expressed, like them, ideal beauty. But his pictures had no elaborate grouping, which is
one of the excellences of modern art. His figures were all in regular lines, like the bas-reliefs
on a frieze. He took his subjects from epic poetry. He is celebrated for his accurate drawing,
and for the charm and grace of his female figures. He also gave great grandeur to his figures,
like Michael Angelo. Contemporary with him was Dionysius, who was remarkable for expression,
and Micon, who was skilled in painting horses.

With Apollodorus of Athens, who flourished toward the close of the fifth century before Christ,
there was a new development,--that of dramatic effect. His aim was to deceive the eye of the
spectator by the appearance of reality. He painted men and things as they appeared. He also
improved coloring, invented chiaroscuro (or the art of relief by a proper distribution of the
lights and shadows), and thus obtained what is called "tone." He prepared the way for Zeuxis,
who surpassed him in the power to give beauty to forms. The Helen of Zeuxis was painted from
five of the most beautiful women of Croton. He aimed at complete illusion of the senses, as
in the instance recorded of his grape picture. His style was modified by the contemplation
of the sculptures of Phidias, and he taught the true method of grouping. His marked excellence
was in the contrast of light and shade. He did not paint ideal excellence; he was not sufficiently
elevated in his own moral sentiments to elevate the feelings of others: he painted sensuous
beauty as it appeared in the models which he used. But he was greatly extolled, and accumulated
a great fortune, like Rubens, and lived ostentatiously, as rich and fortunate men ever have
lived who do not possess elevation of sentiment. His headquarters were not at Athens, but at
Ephesus,--a city which also produced Parrhasins, to whom Zeuxis himself gave the palm, since
he deceived the painter by his curtain, while Zeuxis only deceived birds by his grapes. Parrhasius
established the rule of proportions, which was followed by succeeding artists. He was a very
luxurious and arrogant man, and fancied he had reached the perfection of his art.

But if that was ever reached among the ancients it was by Apelles,--the Titian of that day,--who
united the rich coloring of the Ionian school with the scientific severity of the school of
Sicyonia. He alone was permitted to paint the figure of Alexander, as Lysippus only was allowed
to represent him in bronze. He invented ivory black, and was the first to cover his pictures
with a coating of varnish, to bring out the colors and preserve them. His distinguishing excellency
was grace,--"that artless balance of motion and repose," says Fuseli, "springing from character
and founded on propriety." Others may have equalled him in perspective, accuracy, and finish,
but he added a refinement of taste which placed him on the throne which is now given to Raphael.
No artists could complete his unfinished pictures. He courted the severest criticism, and,
like Michael Angelo, had no jealousy of the fame of other artists; he reposed in the greatness
of his own self-consciousness. He must have made enormous sums of money, since one of his pictures--a
Venus rising out of the sea, painted for a temple in Cos, and afterwards removed by Augustus
to Rome--cost one hundred talents (equal to about one hundred thousand dollars),--a greater
sum, I apprehend, than was ever paid to a modern artist for a single picture, certainly in
view of the relative value of gold. In this picture female grace was impersonated.

After Apelles the art declined, although there were distinguished artists for several centuries.
They generally flocked to Rome, where there was the greatest luxury and extravagance, and they,
pandered to vanity and a vitiated taste. The masterpieces of the old artists brought enormous
sums, as the works of the old masters do now; and they were brought to Rome by the conquerors,
as the masterpieces of Italy and Spain and Flanders were brought to Paris by Napoleon. So Rome
gradually possessed the best pictures of the world, without stimulating the art or making new
creations; it could appreciate genius, but creative genius expired with Grecian liberties and
glories. Rome multiplied and rewarded painters, but none of them were famous. Pictures were
as common as statues. Even Varro, a learned writer, had a gallery of seven hundred portraits.
Pictures were placed in all the baths, theatres, temples, and palaces, as were statues.

We are forced, therefore, to believe that the Greeks carried painting to the same perfection
that they did sculpture, not only from the praises of critics like Cicero and Pliny, but from
the universal enthusiasm which the painters created and the enormous prices they received.
Whether Polygnotus was equal to Michael Angelo, Zeuxis to Titian, and Apelles to Raphael, we
cannot tell. Their works have perished. What remains to us, in the mural decorations of Pompeii
and the designs on vases, seem to confirm the criticisms of the ancients. We cannot conceive
how the Greek painters could have equalled the great Italian masters, since they had fewer
colors, and did not make use of oil, but of gums mixed with the white of eggs, and resin and
wax, which mixture we call "encaustic." Yet it is not the perfection of colors or of design,
or mechanical aids, or exact imitations, or perspective skill, which constitute the highest
excellence of the painter, but his power of creation,--the power of giving ideal beauty and
grandeur and grace, inspired by the contemplation of eternal ideas, an excellence which appears
in all the masterworks of the Greeks, and such as has not been surpassed by the moderns.

But Art was not confined to architecture, sculpture, and painting alone. It equally appears
in all the literature of Greece. The Greek poets were artists, as also the orators and historians,
in the highest sense. They were the creators of style in writing, which we do not see in the
literature of the Jews or other Oriental nations, marvellous and profound as were their thoughts.
The Greeks had the power of putting things so as to make the greatest impression on the mind.
This especially appears among such poets as Sophocles and Euripides, such orators as Pericles
and Demosthenes, such historians as Xenophon and Thucydides, such philosophers as Plato and
Aristotle. We see in their finished productions no repetitions, no useless expressions, no
superfluity or redundancy, no careless arrangement, no words even in bad taste, save in the
abusive epithets in which the orators indulged. All is as harmonious in their literary style
as in plastic art; while we read, unexpected pleasures arise in the mind, based on beauty and
harmony, somewhat similar to the enjoyment of artistic music, or as when we read Voltaire,
Rousseau, or Macaulay. We perceive art in the arrangement of sentences, in the rhythm, in the
symmetry of construction. We see means adapted to an end. The Latin races are most marked for
artistic writing, especially the French, who seem to be copyists of Greek and Roman models.
We see very little of this artistic writing among the Germans, who seem to disdain it as much
as an English lawyer or statesman does rhetoric. It is in rhetoric and poetry that Art most
strikingly appears in the writings of the Greeks, and this was perfected by the Athenian Sophists.
But all the Greeks, and after them the Romans, especially in the time of Cicero, sought the
graces and fascinations of style. Style is an art, and all art is eternal.

It is probable also that Art was manifested to a high degree in the conversation of the Greeks,
as they were brilliant talkers,--like Brougham, Mackintosh, Madame de Staël, and Macaulay,
in our times.

But I may not follow out, as I could wish, this department of Art,--generally overlooked, certainly
not dwelt upon like pictures and statues. An interesting and captivating writer or speaker
is as much an artist as a sculptor or musician; and unless authors possess art their works
are apt to perish, like those of Varro, the most learned of the Romans. It is the exquisite
art seen in all the writings of Cicero which makes them classic; it is the style rather than
the ideas. The same may be said of Horace: it is his elegance of style and language which makes
him immortal. It is this singular fascination of language and style which keeps Hume on the
list of standard and classic writers, like Pascal, Goldsmith, Voltaire, and Fénelon. It is
on account of these excellences that the classical writers of antiquity will never lose their
popularity, and for which they will be imitated, and by which they have exerted their vast
influence.

Art, therefore, in every department, was carried to high excellence by the Greeks, and they
thus became the teachers of all succeeding races and ages. Artists are great exponents of civilization.
They are generally learned men, appreciated by the cultivated classes, and usually associating
with the rich and proud. The Popes rewarded artists while they crushed reformers. I never read
of an artist who was persecuted. Men do not turn with disdain or anger in disputing with them,
as they do from great moral teachers; artists provoke no opposition and stir up no hostile
passions. It is the men who propound agitating ideas and who revolutionize the character of
nations, that are persecuted. Artists create no revolutions, not even of thought. Savonarola
kindled a greater fire in Florence than all the artists whom the Medici ever patronized. But
if the artists cannot wear the crown of apostles and reformers and sages,--the men who save
nations, men like Socrates, Luther, Bacon, Descartes, Burke,--yet they have fewer evils to
contend with in their progress, and they still leave a mighty impression behind them, not like
that of Moses and Paul, but still an influence; they kindle the enthusiasm of a class that
cannot be kindled by ideas, and furnish inexhaustible themes of conversation to cultivated
people and make life itself graceful and beautiful, enriching our houses and adorning our consecrated
temples and elevating our better sentiments. The great artist is himself immortal, even if
he contributes very little to save the world. Art seeks only the perfection of outward form;
it is mundane in its labors; it does not aspire to those beatitudes which shine beyond the
grave. And yet it is a great and invaluable assistance to those who would communicate great
truths, since it puts them in attractive forms and increases the impression of the truths themselves.
To the orator, the historian, the philosopher, and the poet, a knowledge of the principles
of Art is as important as to the architect, the sculptor, and the painter; and these principles
are learned only by study and labor, while they cannot be even conceived of by ordinary men.

Thus it would appear that in all departments and in all the developments of Art the Greeks
were the teachers of the modern European nations, as well of the ancient Romans; and their
teachings will be invaluable to all the nations which are yet to arise, since no great improvement
has been made on the models which have come down to us, and no new principles have been discovered
which were not known to them. In everything which pertains to Art they were benefactors of
the human race, and gave a great impulse to civilization.

AUTHORITIES.

Müller's De Phidias Vita, Vitruvius, Aristotle. Pliny, Ovid, Martial, Lucian, and Cicero have
made criticisms on ancient Art. The modern writers are very numerous, especially among the
Germans and the French. From these may be selected Winckelmann's History of Ancient Art; Müller's
Remains of Ancient Art; Donaldson's Antiquities of Athens; Sir W. Gill's Pompeiana; Montfançon's
Antiquité Expliquée en Figures; Ancient Marbles of the British Museum, by Taylor Combe; Mayer's
Kunstgechicte; Cleghorn's Ancient and Modern Art; Wilkinson's Topography of Thebes; Dodwell's
Classical Tour; Wilkinson's Ancient Egyptians; Flaxman's Lectures on Sculpture; Fuseli's Lectures;
Sir Joshua Reynolds's Lectures; also see five articles on Painting, Sculpture, and Architecture,
in the Encyclopaedia Britannica, and in Smith's Dictionary.

LITERARY GENIUS:

THE GREEK AND ROMAN CLASSICS.

We know but little of the literature of antiquity until the Greeks applied to it the principles
of art. The Sanskrit language has revealed the ancient literature of the Hindus, which is chiefly
confined to mystical religious poetry, and which has already been mentioned in the chapter
on "Ancient Religions." There was no history worthy the name in India. The Egyptians and Babylonians
recorded the triumphs of warriors and domestic events, but those were mere annals without literary
value. It is true that the literary remains of Egypt show a reading and writing people as early
as three thousand years before Christ, and in their various styles of pen-language reveal a
remarkable variety of departments and topics treated,--books of religion, of theology, of ethics,
of medicine, of astronomy, of magic, of mythic poetry, of fiction, of personal correspondence,
etc. The difficulties of deciphering them, however, and their many peculiarities and formalisms
of style, render them rather of curious historical and archaeological than of literary interest.
The Chinese annals also extend back to a remote period, for Confucius wrote history as well
as ethics; but Chinese literature has comparatively little interest for us, as also that of
all Oriental nations, except the Hindu Vedas and the Persian Zend-Avesta, and a few other poems
showing great fertility of the imagination, with a peculiar tenderness and pathos.

Accordingly, as I wish to show chiefly the triumphs of ancient genius when directed to literature
generally, and especially such as has had a direct influence upon our modern literature, I
confine myself to that of Greece and Rome. Even our present civilization delights in the masterpieces
of the classical poets, historians, orators, and essayists, and seeks to rival them. Long before
Christianity became a power the great literary artists of Greece had reached perfection in
style and language, especially in Athens, to which city youths were sent to be educated, as
to a sort of university town where the highest culture was known. Without the aid of Greece,
Rome could never have reached the civilization to which she attained.

How rich in poetry was classical antiquity, whether sung in the Greek or Latin language! He
was born, probably, at Smyrna, an Ionian city; the dates attributed to him range from the seventh
to the twelfth century before Christ. We find in the Homeric narrative accuracy, delicacy,
naturalness, with grandeur, sentiment, and beauty, such as Phidias represented in his statues
of Zeus. No poems have ever been more popular, and none have extorted greater admiration from
critics. Its influence on the popular mythology of the Greeks has been already alluded to.
If Homer did not create the Grecian theogony, he gave form and fascination to it. He died in
Sicily, in the sixty-ninth year of his age.

The fame of Sophocles is scarcely less than that of Aeschylus. He was twenty-seven years of
age when he publicly appeared as a poet. He does not attempt to show ideal excellence, and
his characters represent men not as they ought to be, but as they are, especially in corrupt
states of society. Euripides wrote ninety-five plays, of which eighteen are extant.

The Greeks were no less distinguished for comedy than for tragedy. Aristophanes has furnished
jests for Rabelais, hints to Swift, and humor for Molière. Mommsen regards Naevius as the first
of the Romans who deserves to be ranked among the poets. His language was free from stiffness
and affectation, and his verses had a graceful flow. In metres he closely adhered to Andronicus.
Terence, whom Mommsen regards as the most polished, elegant, and chaste of all the poets of
the newer comedy, closely copied the Greek Menander. The only tragedy of the Romans which has
reached us was written by Seneca the philosopher.

In epic poetry the Romans accomplished more, though even here they are still inferior to the
Greeks.

In didactic poetry Lucretius was pre-eminent, and is regarded by Schlegel as the first of Roman
poets in native genius. He was born 95 B.C., and died at the age of forty-two by his own hand.
His most famous work was his "Metamorphoses," mythologic legends involving transformations,--a
most poetical and imaginative production. Nor did he support exile with dignity; he languished
like Cicero when doomed to a similar fate, and died of a broken heart.

In satire the Romans transcended both the Greeks and the moderns. He discoursed on the vanity
of human wishes with the moral wisdom of Dr. Johnson, and urged self-improvement like Socrates
and Epictetus. Plato did not write poetry, but his prose is as "musical as Apollo's lyre."
Burke and Macaulay are as great artists in style as Tennyson himself. Bacon, with all his affluence
of thought, vigor of imagination, and command of language, could not write poetry any easier
than Pope could write prose,--although it is asserted by some modern writers, of no great reputation,
that Bacon wrote Shakspeare's plays. The translation of this great history by Rawlinson, with
notes, is invaluable.

To Thucydides, as an historian, the modern world also assigns a proud pre-eminence.

Xenophon is the last of the trio of the Greek historians whose writings are classic and inimitable.
He wrote for éclat. It is the style, the irony, the elegance that characterize them. We will
not let them perish, because they amuse and interest and inspire us.

A remarkable example is that of Plutarch, who, although born a Greek and writing in the Greek
language, was a contemporary of Tacitus, lived long in Rome, and was one of the "immortals"
of the imperial age. A teacher of philosophy during his early manhood, he spent his last years
as archon and priest of Apollo in his native town. His most famous work is his "Parallel Lives"
of forty-six historic Greeks and Romans, arranged in pairs, depicted with marvellous art and
all the fascination of anecdote and social wit, while presenting such clear conceptions of
characters and careers, and the whole so restrained within the bounds of good taste and harmonious
proportion, as to have been even to this day regarded as forming a model for the ideal biography.
It will not do to lay great emphasis on minute details, and neglect the art of generalization.
If an historian attempts to embody too much learning, he is likely to be deficient in originality;
if he would say everything, he is apt to be dry; if he elaborates too much, he loses animation.
Thus arose the lawyers, among whom eloquence was more in demand and more richly paid than in
any other class. His voice was sweet, and his utterance distinct and rapid. Peisistratus was
also famous for his eloquence, although he was a usurper and a tyrant.

As an orator Demosthenes has not probably been equalled by any man of any country. His orations
were most highly prized by the ancients, who wrote innumerable commentaries on them, most of
which are lost. Sixty of the great productions of his genius have come down to us. "Coelius
was noted for lofty sentiment, Brutus for philosophical wisdom, Calidius for a delicate and
harmonious style, and Calvus for sententious force." They were pre-eminent in the ancient world,
and have never been equalled in the modern. Cicero distinguished himself very early as an advocate,
but his first great public effort was made in the prosecution of Verres for corruption.

Thus in oratory as in history the ancients can boast of most illustrious examples, never even
equalled. The multitude do not go to hear the man of thoughts, but to hear the man of words,
being repelled or attracted by manner.

Quintilian is a Latin classic, and belongs to the class of rhetoricians. His scepticism was
universal, and extended to religion, to philosophy, and to everything venerated and ancient.
His purity of style was admired by Erasmus, and his works have been translated into most European
languages.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUTHORITIES. The Germans, in this department, have no equals.

