"17th January 1810.--Felix went with Captain Canning, the English ambassador to the Burman
Empire, to the city of Pegu. On his way thither he observed to Captain Canning that he should
be greatly gratified in accompanying the Minister to the mountains of Martaban and the country
beyond them.  Captain Canning at his next interview with the Minister mentioned this to him,
which he was much pleased with, and immediately ordered several buffalo-carts to be made ready,
and gave him a war-boat to return to Rangoon to bring his baggage, medicines, etc.  He had
no time to consult Brother Chater before he determined on the journey, and wrote to me when
at Rangoon, where he stayed only one night, and returned to Pegu the next morning.  He says
the Minister has now nearly the whole dominion over the Empire, and is going to war.  He will
accompany the army to Martaban, when he expects to stay with the Minister there.  He goes in
great spirits to explore those countries where no European has been before him, and where he
goes with advantages and accommodations such as a traveller seldom can obtain. Brother and
Sister Chater do not approve of his undertaking, perhaps through fear for his safety.  I feel
as much for that as any one can do, yet I, and indeed Brethren Marshman, Ward, and Rowe, rejoice
that he has undertaken the journey.  It will assist him in acquiring the language; it will
gratify the Minister, it will serve the interests of literature, and perhaps answer many other
important purposes, as it respects the mission; and as much of the way will be through uninhabited
forests, it could not have been safely undertaken except with an army.  He expects to be absent
three months.  I shall feel a great desire to hear from him when he returns, and I doubt not
but you will join me in prayer for his safety both of mind and body...

"One or two words about natural history.  Can you not get me a male and female khokora--I mean
the great bird like a kite, which makes so great a noise, and often carries off a duck or a
kid?  I believe it is an eagle, and want to examine it.  Send me also all the sorts of ducks
and waterfowls you can get, and, in short, every sort of bird you can obtain which is not common
here.  Send their Bengali names.  Collect me all the sorts of insects, and serpents, and lizards
you can get which are not common here.  Put all the insects together into a bottle of rum,
except butterflies, which you may dry between two papers, and the serpents and lizards the
same.  I will send you a small quantity of rum for that purpose.  Send all the country names.
Let me have the birds alive; and when you have got a good boat-load send a small boat down
with them under charge of a careful person, and I will pay the expenses.  Spare no pains to
get me seeds and roots, and get Brother Robinson to procure what he can from Bhootan or other
parts.

"Remember me affectionately to Sebuk Ram and his wife, and to all the native brethren and sisters."

"5th February 1810.--Were you hunting the buffalo, or did it charge you without provocation?
I advise you to abstain from hunting buffaloes or other animals, because, though I think it
lawful to kill noxious animals, or to kill animals for food, yet the unnecessary killing of
animals, and especially the spending much time in the pursuit of them, is wrong, and your life
is too valuable to be thrown away by exposing it to such furious animals as buffaloes and tigers.
If you can kill them without running any risk 'tis very well, but it is wrong to expose yourself
to danger for an end so much below that to which you are devoted...

"I believe the cause of our Redeemer increases in the earth, and look forward to more decided
appearances of divine power.  The destruction of the temporal power of the Pope is a glorious
circumstance, and an answer to the prayers of the Church for centuries past...

"I send you a small cask of rum to preserve curiosities in, and a few bottles; but your best
way will be to draw off a couple of gallons of the rum, which you may keep for your own use,
and then put the snakes, frogs, toads, lizards, etc., into the cask, and send them down.  I
can easily put them into proper bottles, etc., afterwards.  You may, however, send one or two
of the bottles filled with beetles, grasshoppers, and other insects."

In the absence of Mr. Fernandez, the pastor, William had excluded two members of the Church.

"4th April 1810.--A very little knowledge of human nature will convince you that this would
have been thought an affront in five instances out of six.  You would have done better to have
advised them, or even to have required them to have kept from the Lord's table till Mr. Fernandez's
return, and to have left it to him to preside over the discipline of the church.  You, no doubt,
did it without thinking of the consequences, and in the simplicity of your heart, and I think
Mr. Fernandez is wrong in treating you with coolness, when a little conversation might have
put everything to rights.  Of that, however, I shall say no more to you, but one of us shall
write to him upon the subject as soon as we can.

"The great thing to be done now is the effecting of a reconciliation between you, and whether
you leave Sadamahal, or stay there, this is absolutely necessary.  In order to this you both
must be willing to make some sacrifice of your feelings; and as those feelings, which prevent
either of you from making concessions where you have acted amiss, are wrong, the sooner they
are sacrificed the better.  I advise you to write to Mr. Fernandez immediately, and acknowledge
that you did wrong in proceeding to the exclusion of the members without having first consulted
with him, and state that you had no intention of hurting his feelings, but acted from what
you thought the urgency of the case, and request of him a cordial reconciliation.  I should
like much to see a copy of the letter you send to him.  I have no object in view but the good
of the Church, and would therefore rather see you stoop as low as you can to effect a reconciliation,
than avoid it through any little punctilio of honour or feeling of pride.  You will never repent
of having humbled yourself to the dust that peace may be restored, nothing will be a more instructive
example to the heathen around you, nothing will so completely subdue Brother Fernandez's dissatisfaction,
and nothing will make you more respected in the Church of God.

"It is highly probable that you will some time or other be removed to another situation, but
it cannot be done till you are perfectly reconciled to each other, nor can it possibly be done
till some time after your reconciliation, as such a step would be considered by all as an effect
of resentment or dissatisfaction, and would be condemned by every thinking person.  We shall
keep our minds steadily on the object, and look out for a proper station; but both we and you
must act with great caution and tenderness in this affair.  For this reason also I entreat
you not to withdraw yourself from the church, or from any part of your labours, but go on steadily
in the path of duty, suppress and pray against every feeling of resentment, and bear anything
rather than be accessory to a misunderstanding, or the perpetuating of one. 'Let that mind
be in you which was also in Christ, who made himself of no reputation.'  I hope what I have
said will induce you to set in earnest about a reconciliation with Brother Fernandez, and to
spare no pains or concession (consistent with truth) to effect it."

William had applied to be transferred to Serampore.

"3rd August 1811.--The necessities of the mission must be consulted before every other consideration.
Native brethren can itinerate, but Europeans must be employed to open new missions and found
new stations. For were we to go upon the plan of sending Europeans where natives could possibly
be employed, no subscriptions or profits could support them.  We intend to commence a new station
at Dacca, and if you prefer that to Cutwa you may go thither.  One of the first things to be
done there will be to open a charity school, and to overlook it.  Dacca itself is a very large
place, where you may often communicate religious instructions without leaving the town.  There
are also a number of Europeans there, so that Mary would not be so much alone, and at any rate
help would be near.  We can obtain the permission of Government for you to settle there.

"I ought, however, to say that I think there is much guilt in your fears.  You and Mary will
be a thousand times more safe in committing yourselves to God in the way of duty than in neglecting
obvious duty to take care of yourselves.  You see what hardships and dangers a soldier meets
in the wicked trade of war.  They are forced to leave home and expose themselves to a thousand
dangers, yet they never think of objecting, and in this the officers are in the same situation
as the men.  I will engage to say that no military officer would ever refuse to go any whither
on service because his family must be exposed to danger in his absence; and yet I doubt not
but many of them are men who have great tenderness for their wives and families.  However,
they must be men and their wives must be women. Your undertaking is infinitely superior to
theirs in importance. They go to kill men, you to save them.  If they leave their families
to chance for the sake of war, surely you can leave yours to the God of providence while you
go about His work.  I speak thus because I am much distressed to see you thus waste away the
flower of your life in inactivity, and only plead for it what would not excuse a child.  Were
you in any secular employment you must go out quite as much as we expect you to do in the Mission.
I did so when at Mudnabati, which was as lonesome a place as could have been thought of, and
when I well knew that many of our own ryots were dakoits (robbers)."

William finally settled at Cutwa, higher up the Hoogli than Serampore, and did good service there.

"1st December 1813.--I have now an assistant at College, notwithstanding which my duties are
quite as heavy as they ever were, for we are to receive a number of military students--I suppose
thirty at least.  The translation, and printing also, is now so much enlarged that I am scarcely
able to get through the necessary labour of correcting proofs and learning the necessary languages.
All these things are causes of rejoicing more than of regret, for they are the very things
for which I came into the country, and to which I wish to devote my latest breath...Jabez has
offered himself to the Mission, a circumstance which gives me more pleasure than if he had
been appointed Chief Judge of the Supreme Court...Your mother has long been confined to her
couch, I believe about six months."

The following was written evidently in reply to loving letters on the death of his wife, Charlotte
Emilia:--

"4th June 1821.--MY DEAR JONATHAN--I feel your affectionate care for me very tenderly.  I have
just received very affectionate letters from William and Brother Sutton (Orissa).  Lord and
Lady Hastings wrote to Brother Marshman, thinking it would oppress my feelings to write to
me directly, to offer their kind condolence to me through him.  Will you have the goodness
to send five rupees to William for the Cutwa school, which your dear mother supported.  I will
repay you soon, but am now very short of money.--I am your very affectionate father, W. CAREY."

Of the many descendants of Dr. Carey, one great grandson is now an ordained missionary in Bengal,
another a medical missionary in Delhi, and a third is a member of the Civil Service, who has
distinguished himself by travels in Northern Tibet and Chinese Turkestan, which promise to
unveil much of the unexplored regions of Asia to the scholar and the missionary.

Thus far we have confined our study of William Carey to his purely missionary career, and that
in its earlier half.  We have now to see him as the scholar, the Bible translator, the philanthropist,
the agriculturist, and the founder of a University.

CHAPTER IX

PROFESSOR OF SANSKRIT, BENGALI, AND MARATHI

1801-1830

Carey the only Sanskrit scholar in India besides Colebrooke--The motive of the missionary scholar--Plans
translation of the sacred books of the East--Comparative philology from Leibniz to Carey--Hindoo
and Mohammedan codes and colleges of Warren Hastings--The Marquis Wellesley--The College of
Fort William founded--Character of the Company's civil and military servants--Curriculum of
study, professors and teachers--The vernacular languages--Carey's account of the college and
his appointment--How he studied Sanskrit--College Disputation Day in the new Government House--Carey's
Sanskrit speech--Lord Wellesley's eulogy--Sir James Mackintosh--Carey's pundits--He projects
the Bibliotheca Asiatica--On the Committee of the Bengal Asiatic Society--Edition and translation
of the Ramayana epic--The Hitopadesa--His Universal Dictionary--Influence of Carey on the civil
and military services--W. B. Bayley; B. H. Hodgson; R. Jenkins; R. M. and W. Bird; John Lawrence.

When, in the opening days of the nineteenth century, William Carey was driven to settle in
Danish Serampore, he was the only member of the governing race in North India who knew the
language of the people so as to teach it; the only scholar, with the exception of Colebrooke,
who could speak Sanskrit as fluently as the Brahmans. The Bengali language he had made the
vehicle of the teaching of Christ, of the thought of Paul, of the revelation of John. Of the
Sanskrit, hitherto concealed from alien eyes or diluted only through the Persian, he had prepared
a grammar and begun a dictionary, while he had continually used its great epics in preaching
to the Brahmans, as Paul had quoted the Greek poets on the Areopagus.  And all this he had
done as the missionary of Christ and the scholar afterwards.  Reporting to Ryland, in August
1800, the publication of the Gospels and of "several small pieces" in Bengali, he excused his
irregularity in keeping a journal, "for in the printing I have to look over the copy and correct
the press, which is much more laborious than it would be in England, because spelling, writing,
printing, etc., in Bengali is almost a new thing, and we have in a manner to fix the orthography."
A little later, in a letter to Sutcliff, he used language regarding the sacred books of the
Hindoos which finds a parallel more than eighty years after in Professor Max Müller's preface
to his series of the sacred books of the East, the translation of which Carey was the first
to plan and to begin from the highest of all motives. He declares that "Eastern nations themselves
would not tolerate, in any of their classical literary compositions, such violations of the
simplest rules of taste as they have accustomed themselves to tolerate, if not to admire, in
their sacred books." And he is compelled to leave untranslated, while he apologises for them,
the frequent allusions to the sexual aspects of nature, "particularly in religious books."
The revelations of the Maharaj trial in Bombay are the practical fruit of all this.

"CALCUTTA, 17th March 1802.--I have been much astonished lately at the malignity of some of
the infidel opposers of the Gospel, to see how ready they are to pick every flaw they can in
the inspired writings, and even to distort the meaning, that they may make it appear inconsistent;
while these very persons will labour to reconcile the grossest contradictions in the writings
accounted sacred by the Hindoos, and will stoop to the meanest artifices in order to apologise
for the numerous glaring falsehoods and horrid violations of all decency and decorum, which
abound in almost every page.  Any thing, it seems, will do with these men but the word of God.
They ridicule the figurative language of Scripture, but will run allegory-mad in support of
the most worthless productions that ever were published.  I should think it time lost to translate
any of them; and only a sense of duty excites me to read them.  An idea, however, of the advantage
which the friends of Christianity may obtain by having these mysterious sacred nothings (which
have maintained their celebrity so long merely by being kept from the inspection of any but
interested Brahmans) exposed to view, has induced me, among other things, to write the Sanskrit
grammar, and to begin a dictionary of that language.  I sincerely pity the poor people, who
are held by the chains of an implicit faith in the grossest of lies; and can scarcely help
despising the wretched infidel who pleads in their favour and tries to vindicate them.  I have
long wished to obtain a copy of the Veda; and am now in hopes I shall be able to procure all
that are extant.  A Brahman this morning offered to get them for me for the sake of money.
If I succeed, I shall be strongly tempted to publish them with a translation, pro bono publico."

It was not surprising that the Governor-General, even if he had been less enlightened than
Lord Wellesley, found in this missionary interloper, as the East India Company officially termed
the class to which he belonged, the only man fit to be Professor of Bengali, Sanskrit, and
Marathi in the College of Fort William, and also translator of the laws and regulations of
the Government.

In a memoir read before the Berlin Academy of Sciences, which he had founded in the first year
of the eighteenth century, Leibniz first sowed the seed of the twin sciences of comparative
philology and ethnology, to which we owe the fruitful results of the historical and critical
school.  That century was passed in the necessary collection of facts, of data.  Carey introduced
the second period, so far as the learned and vernacular languages of North India are concerned--of
developing from the body of facts which his industry enormously extended, the principles upon
which these languages were constructed, besides applying these principles, in the shape of
grammars, dictionaries, and translations, to the instruction and Christian civilisation alike
of the learned and of the millions of the people. To the last, as at the first, he was undoubtedly
only what he called himself, a pioneer to prepare the way for more successful civilisers and
scholars.  But his pioneering was acknowledged by contemporary[14] and later Orientalists,
like Colebrooke and H. H. Wilson, to be of unexampled value in the history of scientific research
and industry, while the succeeding pages will show that in its practical results the pioneering
came as nearly to victory as is possible, until native India lives its own national Christian life.

When India first became a united British Empire under one Governor-General and the Regulating
Act of Parliament of 1773, Warren Hastings had at once carried out the provision he himself
had suggested for using the moulavies and pundits in the administration of Mussulman and Hindoo
law.  Besides colleges in Calcutta and Benares to train such, he caused those codes of Mohammedan
and Brahmanical law to be prepared which afterwards appeared as The Hedaya and The Code of
Gentoo Laws. The last was compiled in Sanskrit by pundits summoned from all Bengal and maintained
in Calcutta at the public cost, each at a rupee a day.  It was translated through the Persian,
the language of the courts, by the elder Halhed into English in 1776.  That was the first step
in English Orientalism.  The second was taken by Sir William Jones, a predecessor worthy of
Carey, but cut off all too soon while still a young man of thirty-four, when he founded the
Bengal Asiatic Society in 1784 on the model of Boyle's Royal Society.  The code of Warren Hastings
had to be arranged and supplemented into a reliable digest of the original texts, and the translation
of this work, as done by pundit Jaganatha, was left, by the death of Jones, to Colebrooke,
who completed it in 1797.  Charles Wilkins had made the first direct translation from the Sanskrit
into English in 1785, when he published in London The Bhagavat-Geeta or Dialogue of Krishna
and Arjoon, and his is the imperishable honour thus chronicled by a contemporary poetaster:--

  "But he performed a yet more noble part,
  He gave to Asia typographic art."

In Bengali Halhed had printed at Hoogli in 1783, with types cut by Wilkins, the first grammar,
but it had become obsolete and was imperfect.  Such had been the tentative efforts of the civilians
and officials of the Company when Carey began anew the work from the only secure foundation,
the level of daily sympathetic intercourse with the people and their Brahmans, with the young
as well as the old.

The Marquis Wellesley was of nearly the same age as Carey, whom he soon learned to appreciate
and to use for the highest good of the empire. Of the same name and original English descent
as John and Charles Wesley, the Governor-General was the eldest and not the least brilliant
of the Irish family which, besides him, gave to the country the Duke of Wellington and Lord
Cowley.  While Carey was cobbling shoes in an unknown hamlet of the Midlands and was aspiring
to convert the world, young Wellesley was at Eton and Christ Church, Oxford, acquiring the
classical scholarship which, as we find its fruits in his Primiti[oe] et Reliqui[oe], extorted
the praise of De Quincey.  When Carey was starving in Calcutta unknown the young lord was making
his mark in the House of Commons by a speech against the Jacobins of France in the style of
Burke.  The friend of Pitt, he served his apprenticeship to Indian affairs in the Board of
Control, where he learned to fight the directors of the East India Company, and he landed at
Calcutta in 1798, just in time to save the nascent empire from ruin by the second Mysore war
and the fall of Tipoo at Seringapatam.  Like that other marquis who most closely resembled
him half a century after, the Scottish Dalhousie, his hands were no sooner freed from the uncongenial
bonds of war than he became even more illustrious by his devotion to the progress which peace
makes possible.  He created the College of Fort William, dating the foundation of what was
fitted and intended to be the greatest seat of learning in the East from the first anniversary
of the victory of Seringapatam.

When Wellesley arrived at Calcutta he had been shocked by the sensual ignorance of the Company's
servants.  Sunday was universally given up to horse-racing and gambling.  Boys of sixteen were
removed from the English public schools where they had hardly mastered the rudiments of education
to become the magistrates, judges, revenue collectors, and governors of millions of natives
recently brought under British sway. At a time when the passions most need regulation and the
conscience training, these lads found themselves in India with large incomes, flattered by
native subordinates, encouraged by their superiors to lead lives of dissipation, and without
the moral control even of the weakest public opinion.  The Eton boy and Oxford man was himself
still young, and he knew the world, but he saw that all this meant ruin to both the civil and
military services, and to the Company's system.  The directors addressed in a public letter,
dated 25th May 1798, "an objurgation on the character and conduct" of their servants.  They
re-echoed the words of the new Governor-General in their condemnation of a state of things,
"highly discreditable to our Government, and totally incompatible with the religion we profess."
Such a service as this, preceding the creation of the college, led Pitt's other friend, Wilberforce,
in the discussions on the charter of 1813, to ascribe to Lord Wellesley, when summoning him
to confirm and revise it, the system of diffusing useful knowledge of all sorts as the true
foe not only of ignorance but of vice and of political and social decay.

Called upon to prevent the evils he had been the first to denounce officially, Lord Wellesley
wrote his magnificent state paper of 1800, which he simply termed Notes on the necessity of
a special collegiate training of Civil Servants.  The Company's factories had grown into the
Indian Empire of Great Britain.  The tradesmen and clerks, whom the Company still called "writer,"
"factor," and "merchant," in their several grades, had, since Clive obtained a military commission
in disgust at such duties, become the judges and rulers of millions, responsible to Parliament.
They must be educated in India itself, and trained to be equal to the responsibilities and
temptations of their position.  If appointed by patronage at home when still at school, they
must be tested after training in India so that promotion shall depend on degrees of merit.
Lord Wellesley anticipated the modified system of competition which Macaulay offered to the
Company in 1853, and the refusal of which led to the unrestricted system which has prevailed
with varying results since that time.  Nor was the college only for the young civilians as
they arrived.  Those already at work were to be encouraged to study.  Military officers were
to be invited to take advantage of an institution which was intended to be "the university
of Calcutta," "a light amid the darkness of Asia," and that at a time when in all England there
was not a military college. Finally, the college was designed to be a centre of Western learning
in an Eastern dress for the natives of India and Southern Asia, alike as students and teachers.
A noble site was marked out for it on the stately sweep of Garden Reach, where every East Indiaman
first dropped its anchor, and the building was to be worthy of the founder who erected Government
House.

The curriculum of study included Arabic, Persian, and Sanskrit; Bengali, Marathi, Hindostani
(Hindi), Telugoo, Tamil, and Kanarese; English, the Company's, Mohammedan and Hindoo law, civil
jurisprudence, and the law of nations; ethics; political economy, history, geography, and mathematics;
the Greek, Latin, and English classics, and the modern languages of Europe; the history and
antiquities of India; natural history, botany, chemistry, and astronomy.  The discipline was
that of the English universities as they then were, under the Governor-General himself, his
colleagues, and the appellate judges.  The senior chaplain, the Rev. David Brown, was provost
in charge of the discipline; and Dr. Claudius Buchanan was vice-provost in charge of the studies,
as well as professor of Greek, Latin, and English.  Dr. Gilchrist was professor of Hindostani,
in teaching which he had already made a fortune; Lieutenant J. Baillie of Arabic; and Mr. H.
B. Edmonstone of Persian.  Sir George Barlow expounded the laws or regulations of the British
Government in India.  The Church of England constitution of the college at first, to which
Buchanan had applied the English Test Act, and his own modesty, led Carey to accept of his
appointment, which was thus gazetted:--"The Rev. William Carey, teacher of the Bengali and
Sanskrit languages."

The first notice of the new college which we find in Carey's correspondence is this, in a letter
to Sutcliff dated 27th November 1800:--"There is a college erected at Fort William, of which
the Rev. D. Brown is appointed provost, and C. Buchanan classical tutor: all the Eastern languages
are to be taught in it." "All" the languages of India were to be taught, the vernacular as
well as the classical and purely official.  This was a reform not less radical and beneficial
in its far-reaching influence, and not less honourable to the scholarly foresight of Lord Wellesley,
than Lord William Bentinck's new era of the English language thirty-five years after.  The
rulers and administrators of the new empire were to begin their career by a three years' study
of the mother tongue of the people, to whom justice was administered in a language foreign
alike to them and their governors, and of the Persian language of their foreign Mohammedan
conquerors. That the peoples of India, "every man in his own language," might hear and read
the story of what the one true and living God had done for us men and our salvation, Carey
had nine years before given himself to acquire Bengali and the Sanskrit of which it is one
of a numerous family of daughters, as the tongues of the Latin nations of Europe and South
America are of the offspring of the speech of Caesar and Cicero. Now, following the missionary
pioneer, as educational, scientific, and even political progress has ever since done in the
India which would have kept him out, Lord Wellesley decreed that, like the missionary, the
administrator and the military officer shall master the language of the people.  The five great
vernaculars of India were accordingly named, and the greatest of all, the Hindi, which was
not scientifically elaborated till long after, was provided for under the mixed dialect or
lingua franca known as Hindostani.

When Carey and his colleagues were congratulating themselves on a reform which has already
proved as fruitful of results as the first century of the Renascence of Europe, he little thought,
in his modesty, that he would be recognised as the only man who was fit to carry it out.  Having
guarded the college, as they thought, by a test, Brown and Buchanan urged Carey to take charge
of the Bengali and Sanskrit classes as "teacher" on Rs. 500 a month or £700 a year. Such an
office was entirely in the line of the constitution of the missionary brotherhood. But would
the Government which had banished it to Serampore recognise the aggressively missionary character
of Carey, who would not degrade his high calling by even the suspicion of a compromise?  To
be called and paid as a teacher rather than as the professor whose double work he was asked
to do, was nothing to the modesty of the scholar who pleaded his sense of unfitness for the
duties.  His Master, not himself, was ever Carey's first thought, and the full professorship,
rising to £1800 a year, was soon conferred on the man who proved himself to be almost as much
the college in his own person as were the other professors put together.  A month after his
appointment he thus told the story to Dr. Ryland in the course of a long letter devoted chiefly
to the first native converts:--

"SERAMPORE, 15th June 1801...We sent you some time ago a box full of gods and butterflies,
etc., and another box containing a hundred copies of the New Testament in Bengali...Mr. Lang
is studying Bengali, under me, in the college.  What I have last mentioned requires some explanation,
though you will probably hear of it before this reaches you.  You must know, then, that a college
was founded last year in Fort William, for the instruction of the junior civil servants of
the Company, who are obliged to study in it three years after their arrival.  I always highly
approved of the institution, but never entertained a thought that I should be called to fill
a station in it. To my great surprise I was asked to undertake the Bengali professorship. 
One morning a letter from Mr. Brown came, inviting me to cross the water, to have some conversation
with him upon this subject.  I had but just time to call our brethren together, who were of
opinion that, for several reasons, I ought to accept it, provided it did not interfere with
the work of the mission.  I also knew myself to be incapable of filling such a station with
reputation and propriety. I, however, went over, and honestly proposed all my fears and objections.
Both Mr. Brown and Mr. Buchanan were of opinion that the cause of the mission would be furthered
by it; and I was not able to reply to their arguments.  I was convinced that it might.  As
to my ability, they could not satisfy me; but they insisted upon it that they must be the judges
of that.  I therefore consented, with fear and trembling.  They proposed me that day, or the
next, to the Governor-General, who is patron and visitor of the college.  They told him that
I had been a missionary in the country for seven years or more; and as a missionary I was appointed
to the office.  A clause had been inserted in the statutes to accommodate those who are not
of the Church of England (for all professors are to take certain oaths, and make declarations);
but, for the accommodation of such, two other names were inserted, viz., lecturers and teachers,
who are not included under that obligation.  When I was proposed, his lordship asked if I was
well affected to the state, and capable of fulfilling the duties of the station; to which Mr.
B. replied that he should never have proposed me if he had had the smallest doubt on those
heads.  I wonder how people can have such favourable ideas of me.  I certainly am not disaffected
to the state; but the other is not clear to me.

"When the appointment was made, I saw that I had a very important charge committed to me, and
no books or helps of any kind to assist me. I therefore set about compiling a grammar, which
is now half printed. I got Ram Basu to compose a history of one of their kings, the first prose
book ever written in the Bengali language; which we are also printing.  Our pundit has also
nearly translated the Sanskrit fables, one or two of which Brother Thomas sent you, which we
are also going to publish, These, with Mr. Foster's vocabulary, will prepare the way to reading
their poetical books; so that I hope this difficulty will be gotten through.  But my ignorance
of the way of conducting collegiate exercises is a great weight upon my mind. I have thirteen
students in my class; I lecture twice a week, and have nearly gone through one term, not quite
two months.  It began 4th May.  Most of the students have gotten through the accidents, and
some have begun to translate Bengali into English.  The examination begins this week.  I am
also appointed teacher of the Sanskrit language; and though no students have yet entered in
that class, yet I must prepare for it.  I am, therefore, writing a grammar of that language,
which I must also print, if I should be able to get through with it, and perhaps a dictionary,
which I began some years ago.  I say all this, my dear brother, to induce you to give me your
advice about the best manner of conducting myself in this station, and to induce you to pray
much for me, that God may, in all things, be glorified by me.  We presented a copy of the Bengali
New Testament to Lord Wellesley, after the appointment, through the medium of the Rev. D. Brown,
which was graciously received.  We also presented Governor Bie with one.

"Serampore is now in the hands of the English.  It was taken while we were in bed and asleep;
you may therefore suppose that it was done without bloodshed.  You may be perfectly easy about
us: we are equally secure under the English or Danish Government, and I am sure well disposed
to both."

For seven years, since his first settlement in the Dinapoor district, Carey had given one-third
of his long working day to the study of Sanskrit.  In 1796 he reported:--"I am now learning
the Sanskrit language, that I may be able to read their Shasters for myself; and I have acquired
so much of the Hindi or Hindostani as to converse in it and speak for some time intelligibly...Even
the language of Ceylon has so much affinity with that of Bengal that out of twelve words, with
the little Sanskrit that I know, I can understand five or six."  In 1798 he wrote:--"I constantly
employ the forenoon in temporal affairs; the afternoon in reading, writing, learning Sanskrit,
etc.; and the evening by candle light in translating the Scriptures...Except I go out to preach,
which is often the case, I never deviate from this rule." Three years before that he had been
able to confute the Brahmans from their own writings; in 1798 he quoted and translated the
Rig Veda and the Purana in reply to a request for an account of the beliefs of the priesthood,
apologising, however, with his usual self-depreciation:--"I am just beginning to see for myself
by reading the original Shasters." In 1799 we find him reading the Mahabharata epic with the
hope of finding some allusion or fact which might enable him to equate Hindoo chronology with
reliable history, as Dr. John Wilson of Bombay and James Prinsep did a generation later, by
the discovery of the name of Antiochus the Great in two of the edicts of Asoka, written on
the Girnar rock.

By September 1804 Carey had completed the first three years' course of collegiate training
in Sanskrit.  The Governor-General summoned a brilliant assembly to listen to the disputations
and declamations of the students who were passing out, and of their professors, in the various
Oriental languages.  The new Government House, as it was still called, having been completed
only the year before at a cost of £140,000, was the scene, in "the southern room on the marble
floor," where, ever since, all through the century, the Sovereign's Viceroys have received
the homage of the tributary kings of our Indian empire. There, from Dalhousie and Canning to
Lawrence and Mayo, and their still surviving successors, we have seen pageants and durbars
more splendid, and representing a wider extent of territory, from Yarkand to Bangkok, than
even the Sultanised Englishman as Sir James Mackintosh called Wellesley, ever dreamed of in
his most imperial aspirations.  There councils have ever since been held, and laws have been
passed affecting the weal of from two to three hundred millions of our fellow-subjects. There,
too, we have stood with Duff and Cotton, Ritchie and Outram, representing the later University
of Calcutta which Wellesley would have anticipated.  But we question if, ever since, the marble
hall of the Governor-General's palace has witnessed a sight more profoundly significant than
that of William Carey addressing the Marquis Wellesley in Sanskrit, and in the presence of
the future Duke of Wellington, in such words as follow.

The seventy students, their governors, officers, and professors, rose to their feet, when,
at ten o'clock on Thursday the 20th of September 1804, His Excellency the Visitor entered the
room, accompanied, as the official gazette duly chronicles, by "the Honourable the Chief Justice,
the judges of the Supreme Court, the members of the Supreme Council, the members of the Council
of the College, Major-General Cameron, Major-General the Honourable Arthur Wellesley, Major-General
Dowdeswell, and Solyman Aga, the envoy from Baghdad.  All the principal civil and military
officers at the Presidency, and many of the British inhabitants, were present on this occasion;
and also many learned natives."

After Romer had defended, in Hindostani, the thesis that the Sanskrit is the parent language
in India, and Swinton, in Persian, that the poems of Hafiz are to be understood in a figurative
or mystical sense, there came a Bengali declamation by Tod senior on the position that the
translations of the best works extant in the Sanskrit with the popular languages of India would
promote the extension of science and civilisation, opposed by Hayes; then Carey, as moderator,
made an appropriate Bengali speech.  A similar disputation in Arabic and a Sanskrit declamation
followed, when Carey was called on to conclude with a speech in Sanskrit.  Two days after,
at a second assemblage of the same kind, followed by a state dinner.  Lord Wellesley presented
the best students with degrees of merit inscribed on vellum in Oriental characters, and delivered
an oration, in which he specially complimented the Sanskrit classes, urged more general attention
to the Bengali language, and expressed satisfaction that a successful beginning had been made
in the study of Marathi.

It was considered a dangerous experiment for a missionary, speaking in Sanskrit, to avow himself
such not only before the Governor-General in official state but before the Hindoo and Mohammedan
nobles who surrounded him.  We may be sure that Carey would not show less of his Master's charity
and wisdom than he had always striven to do.  But the necessity was the more laid on him that
he should openly confess his great calling, for he had told Fuller on Lord Wellesley's arrival
he would do so if it were possible.  Buchanan, being quite as anxious to bring the mission
forward on this occasion, added much to the English draft--"the whole of the flattery is his,"
wrote Carey to Fuller--and sent it on to Lord Wellesley with apprehension.  This answer came
back from the great Proconsul:--"I am much pleased with Mr. Carey's truly original and excellent
speech.  I would not wish to have a word altered.  I esteem such a testimony from such a man
a greater honour than the applause of Courts and Parliaments."

"MY LORD, it is just that the language which has been first cultivated under your auspices
should primarily be employed in gratefully acknowledging the benefit, and in speaking your
praise. This ancient language, which refused to disclose itself to the former Governors of
India, unlocks its treasures at your command, and enriches the world with the history, learning,
and science of a distant age.  The rising importance of our collegiate institution has never
been more clearly demonstrated than on the present occasion; and thousands of the learned in
distant nations will exult in this triumph of literature.

"What a singular exhibition has been this day presented to us!  In presence of the supreme
Governor of India, and of its most learned and illustrious characters, Asiatic and European,
an assembly is convened, in which no word of our native tongue is spoken, but public discourse
is maintained on interesting subjects in the languages of Asia. The colloquial Hindostani,
the classic Persian, the commercial Bengali, the learned Arabic, and the primæval Sanskrit
are spoken fluently, after having been studied grammatically, by English youth.  Did ever any
university in Europe, or any literary institution in any other age or country, exhibit a scene
so interesting as this?  And what are the circumstances of these youth?  They are not students
who prosecute a dead language with uncertain purpose, impelled only by natural genius or love
of fame.  But having been appointed to the important offices of administering the government
of the country in which these languages are spoken, they apply their acquisitions immediately
to useful purpose; in distributing justice to the inhabitants; in transacting the business
of the state, revenual and commercial; and in maintaining official intercourse with the people,
in their own tongue, and not, as hitherto, by an interpreter.  The acquisitions of our students
may be appreciated by their affording to the suppliant native immediate access to his principal;
and by their elucidating the spirit of the regulations of our Government by oral communication,
and by written explanations, varied according to the circumstances and capacities of the people.

"The acquisitions of our students are appreciated at this moment by those learned Asiatics
now present in this assembly, some of them strangers from distant provinces; who wonder every
man to hear in his own tongue important subjects discussed, and new and noble principles asserted,
by the youth of a foreign land.  The literary proceedings of this day amply repay all the solicitude,
labour, and expense that have been bestowed on this institution.  If the expense had been a
thousand times greater, it would not have equalled the immensity of the advantage, moral and
political, that will ensue.

"I, now an old man, have lived for a long series of years among the Hindoos.  I have been in
the habit of preaching to multitudes daily, of discoursing with the Brahmans on every subject,
and of superintending schools for the instruction of the Hindoo youth. Their language is nearly
as familiar to me as my own.  This close intercourse with the natives for so long a period,
and in different parts of our empire, has afforded me opportunities of information not inferior
to those which have hitherto been presented to any other person.  I may say indeed that their
manners, customs, habits, and sentiments are as obvious to me as if I was myself a native.
And knowing them as I do, and hearing as I do their daily observations on our government, character,
and principles, I am warranted to say (and I deem it my duty to embrace the public opportunity
now afforded me of saying it) that the institution of this college was wanting to complete
the happiness of the natives under our dominion; for this institution will break down that
barrier (our ignorance of their language) which has ever opposed the influence of our laws
and principles, and has despoiled our administration of its energy and effect.

"Were the institution to cease from this moment, its salutary effects would yet remain.  Good
has been done, which cannot be undone.  Sources of useful knowledge, moral instruction, and
political utility have been opened to the natives of India which can never be closed; and their
civil improvement, like the gradual civilisation of our own country, will advance in progression
for ages to come.

"One hundred original volumes in the Oriental languages and literature will preserve for ever
in Asia the name of the founder of this institution.  Nor are the examples frequent of a renown,
possessing such utility for its basis, or pervading such a vast portion of the habitable globe.
My lord, you have raised a monument of fame which no length of time or reverse of fortune is
able to destroy; not chiefly because it is inscribed with Maratha and Mysore, with the trophies
of war and the emblems of victory, but because there are inscribed on it the names of those
learned youth who have obtained degrees of honour for high proficiency in the Oriental tongues.

"These youth will rise in regular succession to the Government of this country.  They will
extend the domain of British civilisation, security, and happiness, by enlarging the bounds
of Oriental literature and thereby diffusing the spirit of Christian principles throughout
the nations of Asia. These youth, who have lived so long amongst us, whose unwearied application
to their studies we have all witnessed, whose moral and exemplary conduct has, in so solemn
a manner, been publicly declared before this august assembly, on this day; and who, at the
moment of entering on the public service, enjoy the fame of possessing qualities (rarely combined)
constituting a reputation of threefold strength for public men, genius, industry, and virtue;--these
illustrious scholars, my lord, the pride of their country, and the pillars of this empire,
will record your name in many a language and secure your fame for ever.  Your fame is already
recorded in their hearts.  The whole body of youth of this service hail you as their father
and their friend.  Your honour will ever be safe in their hands. No revolution of opinion or
change of circumstances can rob you of the solid glory derived from the humane, just, liberal,
and magnanimous principles which have been embodied by your administration.

"To whatever situation the course of future events may call you, the youth of this service
will ever remain the pledges of the wisdom and purity of your government.  Your evening of
life will be constantly cheered with new testimonies of their reverence and affection, with
new proofs of the advantages of the education you have afforded them, and with a demonstration
of the numerous benefits, moral, religious, and political, resulting from this institution;--benefits
which will consolidate the happiness of millions of Asia, with the glory and welfare of our
country."

The Court of Directors had never liked Lord Wellesley, and he had, in common with Colebrooke,
keenly wounded them by proposing a free trade movement against their monopoly.  They ordered
that his favourite college should be immediately abolished.  He took good care so to protract
the operation as to give him time to call in the aid of the Board of Control, which saved the
institution, but confined it to the teaching of languages to the civilians of the Bengal Presidency
only. The Directors, when thus overruled chiefly by Pitt, created a similar college at Haileybury,
which continued till the open competitive system of 1854 swept that also away; and the Company
itself soon followed, as the march of events had made it an anachronism.

The first law professor at Haileybury was James Mackintosh, an Aberdeen student who had leaped
into the front rank of publicists and scholars by his answer to Burke, in the Vindici[oe] Gallic[oe],
and his famous defence of M. Peltier accused of a libel on Napoleon Buonaparte.  Knighted and
sent out to Bombay as its first recorder, Sir James Mackintosh became the centre of scholarly
society in Western India, as Sir William Jones had been in Bengal.  He was the friend of Robert
Hall, the younger, who was filling Carey's pulpit in Leicester, and he soon became the admiring
correspondent of Carey himself.  His first act during his seven years' residence in Bombay
was to establish the "Literary Society."  He drew up a "Plan of a comparative vocabulary of
Indian languages," to be filled up by the officials of every district, like that which Carey
had long been elaborating for his own use as a philologist and Bible translator. In his first
address to the Literary Society he thus eulogised the College of Fort William, though fresh
from a chair in its English rival, Haileybury:--"The original plan was the most magnificent
attempt ever made for the promotion of learning in the East...Even in its present mutilated
state we have seen, at the last public exhibition, Sanskrit declamation by English youth, a
circumstance so extraordinary, that if it be followed by suitable advances it will mark an
epoch in the history of learning."

Carey continued till 1831 to be the most notable figure in the College of Fort William.  He
was the centre of the learned natives whom it attracted, as pundits and moonshees, as inquirers
and visitors.  His own special pundit was the chief one, Mrityunjaya Vidyalankar, whom Home
has immortalised in Carey's portrait.  In the college for more than half the week, as in his
study at Serampore, Carey exhausted three pundits daily.  His college-room was the centre of
incessant literary work, as his Serampore study was of Bible translation.  When he declared
that the college staff had sent forth one hundred original volumes in the Oriental languages
and literature, he referred to the grammars and dictionaries, the reading-books, compilations,
and editions prepared for the students by the professors and their native assistants.  But
he contributed the largest share, and of all his contributions the most laborious and valuable
was this project of the Bibliotheca Asiatica.

"24th July, 1805.--By the enclosed Gazette you will see that the Asiatic Society and the College
have agreed to allow us a yearly stipend for translating Sanskrit works: this will maintain
three missionary stations, and we intend to apply it to that purpose.  An augmentation of my
salary has been warmly recommended by the College Council, but has not yet taken place, and
as Lord Cornwallis is now arrived and Lord Wellesley going away, it may not take place.  If
it should, it will be a further assistance.  The business of the translation of Sanskrit works
is as follows: About two years ago I presented proposals (to the Council of the College) to
print the Sanskrit books at a fixed price, with a certain indemnity for 100 copies.  The plan
was thought too extensive by some, and was therefore laid by.  A few months ago Dr. Francis
Buchanan came to me, by desire of Marquis Wellesley, about the translation of his manuscripts.
In the course of conversation I mentioned the proposal I had made, of which he much approved,
and immediately communicated the matter to Sir John Anstruther, who is president of the Asiatic
Society.  Sir John had then been drawing out a proposal to Lord Wellesley to form a catalogue
raisonnè of the ancient Hindoo books, which he sent to me, and entering warmly into my plan,
desired that I would send in a set of proposals. After some amendments it was agreed that the
College of Fort William and the Asiatic Society should subscribe in equal shares 300 rupees
a month to defray the current expenses, that we should undertake any work approved of by them,
and print the original with an English translation on such paper and with such a type as they
shall approve; the copy to be ours.  They have agreed to recommend the work to all the learned
bodies in Europe.  I have recommended the Ramayana to begin with, it being one of the most
popular of all the Hindoo books accounted sacred. The Veda are so excessively insipid that,
had we begun with them, we should have sickened the public at the outset.  The Ramayana will
furnish the best account of Hindoo mythology that any one book will, and has extravagancy enough
to excite a wish to read it through."

In 1807 Carey became one of the most active members of the Bengal Asiatic Society.  His name
at once appears as one of the Committee of Papers.  In the ninth volume of the Asiatic Researches
for that year, scholars were invited to communicate translations and descriptive accounts of
Asiatic books.  Carey's edition of The Ramayana of Valmeeki, in the original Sanskrit, with
a prose translation and explanatory notes, appeared from the Serampore press in three successive
quartos from 1806 to 1810.  The translation was done by "Dr. Carey and Joshua Marshman."  Until
Gorresio published his edition and Italian translation of the whole poem this was the first
and only attempt to open the seal of the second great Sankrit epic to the European world. 
In 1802 Carey had encouraged the publication at his own press of translations of both the Mahabharata
and the Ramayana into Bengali.  Carey's Ramayana excited a keen interest not only among the
learned of Europe, but among poetical students.  Southey eagerly turned to it for materials
for his Curse of Kehama, in the notes to which he makes long quotations from "the excellent
and learned Baptist missionaries of Serampore."  Dean Milman, when professor of poetry in Oxford,
drew from the same storehouse many of the notes with which he enriched his verse translations
from both epics.  A. W. von Schlegel, the death of whose eldest brother at Madras early led
him to Oriental studies, published two books with a Latin translation.  Mr. Ralph T. H. Griffith
most pleasantly opened the treasures of this epic to English readers in his verse translations
published since 1868. Carey's translation has always been the more rare that the edition despatched
for sale in England was lost at sea, and only a few presentation copies are extant, one of
which is in the British Museum.

Carey's contributions to Sanskrit scholarship were not confined to what he published or to
what appeared under his own name.  We are told by H. H. Wilson that he had prepared for the
press translations of treatises on the metaphysical system called Sankhya. "It was not in Dr.
Carey's nature to volunteer a display of his erudition, and the literary labours already adverted
to arose in a great measure out of his connection with the college of Calcutta, or were suggested
to him by those whose authority he respected, and to whose wishes he thought it incumbent upon
him to attend.  It may be added that Dr. Carey spoke Sanskrit with fluency and correctness."

He edited for the college the Sanskrit text of the Hitopadesa, from six MSS. recensions of
this the first revelation to Europe of the fountain of Aryan folk-tales, of the original of
Pilpay's Fables.[15] H. H. Wilson remarks that the errors are not more than might have been
expected from the variations and defects of the manuscripts and the novelty of the task, for
this was the first Sanskrit book ever printed in the Devanagari character.  To this famous
work Carey added an abridgment of the prose Adventures of Ten Princes (the Dasa Kumara Carita),
and of Bhartri-hari's Apophthegms.  Colebrooke records his debt to Carey for carrying through
the Serampore press the Sanskrit dictionary of Amara Sinha, the oldest native lexicographer,
with an English interpretation and annotations.  But the magnum opus of Carey was what in 1811
he described as A Universal Dictionary of the Oriental Languages, derived from the Sanskrit,
of which that language is to be the groundwork.  The object for which he had been long collecting
the materials of this mighty work was the assisting of "Biblical students to correct the translation
of the Bible in the Oriental languages after we are dead."

Through the College of Fort William during thirty long years Carey influenced the ablest men
in the Bengal Civil Service, and not a few in Madras and Bombay. "The college must stand or
the empire must fall," its founder had written to his friends in the Government, so convinced
was he that only thus could proper men be trained for the public service and the welfare of
our native subjects be secured. How right he was Carey's experience proved.  The young civilians
turned out after the first three years' course introduced that new era in the administration
of India which has converted traders into statesmen and filibusters into soldier-politicals,
so that the East Indian services stand alone in the history of the administration of imperial
dependencies for spotless integrity and high average ability.  Contrast with the work of these
men, from the days of Wellesley, the first Minto, and Dalhousie, from the time of Canning to
Lawrence and the second Minto, the provincial administration of imperial Rome, of Spain and
Portugal at their best, of even the Netherlands and France.  For a whole generation of thirty
years the civilians who studied Sanskrit, Bengali, and Marathi came daily under the gentle
spell of Carey, who, though he had failed to keep the village school of Moulton in order, manifested
the learning and the modesty, the efficiency and the geniality, which won the affectionate
admiration of his students in Calcutta.

A glance at the register of the college for its first five years reveals such men as these
among his best students.  The first Bengali prizeman of Carey was W. Butterworth Bayley, whose
long career of blameless uprightness and marked ability culminated in the temporary seat of
Governor-General, and who was followed in the service by a son worthy of him.  The second was
that Brian H. Hodgson who, when Resident of Nepal, of all his contemporaries won for himself
the greatest reputation as a scholar, who fought side by side with the Serampore brotherhood
the battle of the vernaculars of the people.  Charles, afterwards Lord Metcalfe, had been the
first student to enter the college.  He was on its Persian side, and he learned while still
under its discipline that "humility, patience, and obedience to the divine will" which unostentatiously
marked his brilliant life and soothed his spirit in the agonies of a fatal disease.  He and
Bayley were inseparable.  Of the first set, too, were Richard Jenkins, who was to leave his
mark on history as Nagpoor Resident and author of the Report of 1826; and Romer, who rose to
be Governor of Bombay for a time.  In those early years the two Birds passed through the classes--Robert
Mertins Bird, who was to found the great land revenue school of Hindostan; and Wilberforce
Bird, who governed India while Lord Ellenborough played at soldiers, and to whom the legal
suppression of slavery in Southern Asia is due.  Names of men second to those, such as Elliot
and Thackeray, Hamilton and Martin, the Shakespeares and Plowdens, the Moneys, the Rosses and
Keenes, crowd the honour lists. One of the last to enjoy the advantages of the college before
its abolition was John Lawrence, who used to confess that he was never good at languages, but
whose vigorous Hindostani made many an ill-doing Raja tremble, while his homely conversation,
interspersed with jokes, encouraged the toiling ryot.

These, and men like these, sat at the feet of Carey, where they learned not only to be scholars
but to treat the natives kindly, and--some of them--even as brethren in Christ.  Then from
teaching the future rulers of the East, the missionary-professor turned to his Bengali preaching
and his Benevolent Institution, to his visits to the prisoners and his intercourse with the
British soldiers in Fort William.  And when the four days' work in Calcutta was over, the early
tide bore him swiftly up the Hoogli to the study where, for the rest of the week, he gave himself
to the translation of the Bible into the languages of the people and of their leaders.

CHAPTER X

THE WYCLIF OF THE EAST--BIBLE TRANSLATION

1801-1832

The Bible Carey's missionary weapon--Other vernacular translators--Carey's modest but just
description of his labours--His philological key--Type-cutting and type-casting by a Hindoo
blacksmith--The first manufacture of paper and steam-engines in the East--Carey takes stock
of the translation work at the opening of 1808--In his workshop--A seminary of Bible translators--William
Yates, shoemaker, the Coverdale of the Bengali Bible--Wenger--A Bengali Luther wanted--Carey's
Bengali Bible--How the New Testament was printed--The first copy offered to God--Reception
of the volume by Lord Spencer and George III.--Self-evidencing power of the first edition--The
Bible in Ooriya--In Maghadi, Assamese, Khasi, and Manipoori--Marathi, Konkani, and Goojarati
versions--The translation into Hindi and its many dialects--The Dravidian translations--Tale
of the Pushtoo Bible--The Sikhs and the Bible--The first Burman version and press--The British
and Foreign Bible Society--Deaths, earthquake, and fire in 1812--Destruction of the press--Thomason's
description of the smoking ruins--Carey's heroism as to his manuscripts--Enthusiastic sympathy
of India and Christendom--The ph[oe]nix and its feathers.

Every great reform in the world has been, in the first instance, the work of one man, who,
however much he may have been the product of his time, has conceived and begun to execute the
movement which transforms society.  This is true alike of the moral and the physical forces
of history, of contemporaries so apparently opposite in character and aims as Carey and Clarkson
on the one side and Napoleon and Wellington on the other.  Carey stood alone in his persistent
determination that the Church should evangelise the world.  He was no less singular in the
means which he insisted on as the first essential condition of its evangelisation--the vernacular
translation of the Bible.  From the Scriptures alone, while yet a journeyman shoemaker of eighteen,
"he had formed his own system," and had been filled with the divine missionary idea.  That
was a year before the first Bible Society was formed in 1780 to circulate the English Bible
among soldiers and sailors; and, a quarter of a century before his own success led to the formation
in 1804 of the British and Foreign Bible Society.  From the time of his youth, when he realised
the self-evidencing power of the Bible, Carey's unbroken habit was to begin every morning by
reading one chapter of the Bible, first in English, and then in each of the languages, soon,
numbering six, which he had himself learned.

Hence the translation of the Bible into all the languages and principal dialects of India and
Eastern Asia was the work above all others to which Carey set himself from the time, in 1793,
when he acquired the Bengali.  He preached, he taught, he "discipled" in every form then reasonable
and possible, and in the fullest sense of his Master's missionary charge.  But the one form
of most pressing and abiding importance, the condition without which neither true faith, nor
true science, nor true civilisation could exist or be propagated outside of the narrow circle
to be reached by the one herald's voice, was the publishing of the divine message in the mother
tongues of the millions of Asiatic men and women, boys and girls, and in the learned tongues
also of their leaders and priests. Wyclif had first done this for the English-reading races
of all time, translating from the Latin, and so had begun the Reformation, religious and political,
not only in Britain but in Western Christendom.  Erasmus and Luther had followed him--the former
in his Greek and Latin New Testament and in his Paraphrase of the Word for "women and cobblers,
clowns, mechanics, and even the Turks"; the latter in his great vernacular translation of the
edition of Erasmus, who had never ceased to urge his contemporaries to translate the Scriptures
"into all tongues."  Tyndale had first given England the Bible from the Hebrew and the Greek.
And now one of these cobblers was prompted and enabled by the Spirit who is the author of the
truth in the Scriptures, to give to South and Eastern Asia the sacred books which its Syrian
sons, from Moses and Ezra to Paul and John, had been inspired to write for all races and all
ages. Emphatically, Carey and his later coadjutors deserve the language of the British and
Foreign Bible Society, when, in 1827, it made to Serampore a last grant of money for translation--"Future
generations will apply to them the words of the translators of the English Bible--'Therefore
blessed be they and most honoured their names that break the ice and give the onset in that
which helped them forward to the saving of souls.  Now what can be more available thereto than
to deliver God's book unto God's people in a tongue which they understand?'"  Carey might tolerate
interruption when engaged in other work, but for forty years he never allowed anything to shorten
the time allotted to the Bible work. "You, madam," he wrote in 1797 to a lady as to many a
correspondent, "will excuse my brevity when I inform you that all my time for writting letters
is stolen from the work of transcribing the Scriptures into the Bengali language."

From no mere humility, but with an accurate judgment in the state of scholarship and criticism
at the opening of last century, Carey always insisted that he was a forerunner, breaking up
the way for successors like Yates, Wenger, and Rouse, who, in their turn, must be superseded
by purely native Tyndales and Luthers in the Church of India.  He more than once deprecated
the talk of his having translated the Bible into forty languages and dialects.[16] As we proceed
that will be a apparent which he did with his own hand, that which his colleagues accomplished,
that which he revised and edited both of their work and of the pundits', and that which he
corrected and printed for others at the Serampore press under the care of Ward. It is to these
four lines of work, which centred in him, as most of them originally proceeded from his conception
and advocacy, that the assertion as to the forty translations is strictly applicable.  The
Bengali, Hindi, Marathi, and Sanskrit translations were his own.  The Chinese was similarly
the work of Marshman.  The Hindi versions, in their many dialects, and the Ooriya, were blocked
out by his colleagues and the pundits.  He saw through the press the Hindostani, Persian, Malay,
Tamil, and other versions of the whole or portions of the Scriptures.  He ceased not, night
and day, if by any means, with a loving catholicity, the Word of God might be given to the
millions.

Writing in 1904 on the centenary of the British and Foreign Bible Society, Mr. George A. Grierson,
C.I.E., Ph.D., D.Litt., the head of the Linguistic Survey of India, sums up authoritatively
the work of Carey and his assistants. "The great-hearted band of Serampore missionaries issued
translations of the Bible or of the New Testament in more than forty languages.  Before them
the number of Protestant versions of the Bible in the speeches of India could be counted on
the fingers of one hand.  The Dutch of Ceylon undertook a Tamil New Testament in 1688, which
was followed in 1715 by another version from the pen of Ziegenbalg.  The famous missionary,
Schultze, between 1727 and 1732 made a Telugu version which was never printed, and later, between
1745 and 1758, he published at Halle a Hindostani translation of the New Testament and of a
portion of Genesis.  A manuscript version of portions of the Bible in Bengali was made by Thomas
in 1791; and then the great Serampore series began with Carey's Bengali New Testament published
in 1801. Most of these Serampore versions were, it is true, first attempts and have been superseded
by more accurate versions, but the first step is always the most important one, and this was
taken by Carey and his brethren."

Carey's correspondent in this and purely scholarly subjects was Dr. Ryland, an accomplished
Hebraist and Biblical critic for that day, at the head of the Bristol College.  Carey's letters,
plentifully sprinkled with Hebrew and Greek, show the jealousy with which he sought to convey
the divine message accurately, and the unwearied sense of responsibility under which he worked.
Biblical criticism, alike as to the original text and to the exegesis of the sacred writings,
is so very modern a science, that these letters have now only a historical interest.  But this
communication to Ryland shows how he worked from the first:--

