"My time is too short to cook for a man like that," declared Mary, with a toss of her head,
as she settled herself in the big arm chair in the sitting room, and poor Ricka, whose turn
it was this week to prepare the meals, found herself in the embarrassing position of compulsory
cook for at least two of the men she most heartily despised in the camp, and this too under
the displeasure of both Alma and Mary.

"What shall I do?" groaned Ricka, appealing to me in her extremity. "Will you sit at table
with them tonight, Mrs. Sullivan? because Alma and Mary will not, and I must pour the coffee.
O, dear, what shall I have for supper?" and the poor girl looked fairly bowed down with anxiety.

"O, never mind them, Ricka," said I, "just give them what you had intended to give the rest
of us. I suppose they think this is a roadhouse, and, if so, they can as well board here as
others; but if Alma refuses to take them, I do not see what they can do but keep away," argued
I, knowing both Alma and Mary too well by this time to expect them to change their verdict,
as, indeed, I had no desire for them to do.

"I'm sure it is not a roadhouse for men of their class," growled Alma, biting her thread off
with a snap, for she was sewing on Mollie's dress, and did not wish to be hindered. "I'll not
eat my supper tonight till they have eaten; will you, Mary?"

"Indeed, I will not," was the reply from a pair of very set lips, at which Ricka and I retired
to the kitchen to consult together, and prepare the much-talked-of meal.

Then I proceeded to spread the table with a white cloth and napkins, arrange the best chairs,
and make the kitchen as presentable as I could with lamps, while Ricka went to work at the
range. We had a passable supper, but not nearly so good as we usually have, for the official
had not only taken us by surprise, but had come unbidden, and was not, (by the express orders
of the business head of the restaurant firm), to be made welcome.

At any rate, Ricka and I did the best we could under the circumstances, the meal passed in
some way, and the official then renewed his request to be allowed to take all his meals in
the Mission, meeting with nothing but an unqualified refusal, much to his evident disappointment.

I doubt very much now the probability of my getting any more copying to do for him, as he says
I could have persuaded Alma to board him if I had been so inclined; but then I never was so
inclined, and have about decided that I do not want his work at any price.

January twenty-fifth: This has been a very cold, windy day, but three of the men came in from
prospecting on the creeks, and have little to report. To think of living in tents, or even
native igloos, in such weather for any length of time whatever, is enough to freeze one's marrow,
and I think the men deserve to "strike it rich" to repay them for so much discomfort and suffering.
Mr. L. and B. walked to the Home and back today--twenty-four miles in the cold. I bought two
more fox skins of the storekeeper with which to make my coat longer.

Mr. H. and Miss J. came to hold a meeting in the kitchen for the natives, and Mollie interpreted
for them, as Ivan was not present. They all enjoy singing very much, and are trying to learn
some new songs. Contrary to my expectations, they learn the tunes before they do the words,
which are English, of course.

Later the musician came over and sang and played for an hour and a half at the organ, which
all in the house enjoyed; but he is worried about his friend, who was bitten by the mad-dog,
and is in poor health, he told us tonight. They have lately moved into the old schoolhouse,
and like there better than their former lodgings, which were very cold. There are three of
them in the schoolhouse, or rather cabin, for it is an old log building, with dirt roof, upon
which the grass and weeds grow tall in summer, and under the eaves of the new schoolhouse,
a frame structure with a small pointed tower.

Sunday, January twenty-seventh: The missionaries held a meeting in the sitting room this forenoon
at which the Commissioner was present, not because he was interested in the service, Alma says.
I suppose he had nothing else to do, and happened to get up earlier than usual. I presided
at the organ, and Miss J. led the singing. The day was a very bright one, but the thermometer
registered thirty degrees below zero.

The missionaries have taken Alma with them to visit for a few days, and do some sewing at the
Home. We all ran out upon the ice with them, but did not go far, as it was very cold. For a
low mercury these people do not stay indoors, but go about as they like dressed from top to
toe in furs, and do not suffer; but let the wind blow a stiff gale, and it is not the same
proposition.

Four men came from the camp of the shipwrecked people, the father of Freda, the little girl,
being one. They say the child and her mother are well, and as comfortable as they can be made
for the present, but in the spring they will go back to Nome.

CHAPTER XXIII.

LIGHTS AND SHADOWS OF THE MINING CAMP.

Again the boys are starting for the Koyuk River country. Although it is the twenty-eighth of
January, and between twenty-five and thirty degrees below zero, nothing can deter Mr. L., who
has made up his mind to go to the headwaters of the big river regardless of weather. L., B.
and a native are to compose the party, and this time they are going with reindeer. They will
take with them a tent, stove, fur sleeping bags, matches, "grub," guns and ammunition, not
to mention fry pans and a few tins for cooking purposes. Then they must each take a change
of wearing apparel in case of accident, and make the loads as light as possible. B. has made
it a point to look well at his guns and cartridges, and has been for days cleaning, rubbing
and polishing, while hunting knives have also received attention. The party may have, in some
way, to depend upon these weapons for their lives before their return.

January twenty-ninth: Twenty-five degrees below zero, but without wind, and the boys have started
off on their long trip up the Koyuk. The reindeer were fresh and lively, and when everything
was loaded and lashed upon the three sleds, the animals were hitched to them, when, presto!
the scene was changed in a moment. Each deer ran in several directions at the same time as
if demented, overturning sleds and men, tossing up the snow like dust under their hoofs, and
flinging their antlers about like implements of battle. Now each man was put to his wit's end
to keep hold of the rope attached to the horns of the deer he was driving, and we who had gone
out upon the ice to watch the departure feared greatly for the lives of the men interested.

At one time Mr. H., who was kindly assisting, was flung upon the ground, while a rearing, plunging
animal was poised in mid-air above him; and I uttered a shriek of terror at the sight, thinking
he would be instantly killed. However, he was upon his feet in an instant, and pursuing the
animals, still clinging to the rope, as the deer must never, under any consideration, be allowed
to get away with the loaded sleds.

When one of the boys attempted to sit upon a load, holding the rope as a guide in his hands,
there would be a whisk, a whirl, and quicker than a flash over would go the load, sled and
man, rolling over and over like a football on a college campus.

At this time the sun shone out brightly, tinting rosily the distant hills, and spreading a
carpet of light under our feet upon the ice-covered surface of the bay. The clear, cold air
we breathed was fairly exhilarating, sparkling like diamonds in the sun-beams, and causing
the feathery snowflakes under our feet to crackle with a delightful crispness.

When the elasticity of the reindeer's spirits had been somewhat lessened by exercise, a real
start was made, and we watched them until only small dots on the distant trail could be distinguished.

Something unpleasant has happened. M., the Finlander, told me this morning that he wants the
room I occupy upstairs, and, of course, I will have to give it up. As the other rooms upstairs
must be left for the men, of whom there are such numbers, there is no place for me except on
the old wooden settle in the sitting room. To be sure, this is in a warm corner, but there
are many and serious inconveniences, one being that I must of necessity be the last one to
retire, and this is usually midnight.

For some time past I have been turning over in my mind the advisability of asking for the situation
of nurse and teacher to Jennie and Charlie, and living in the hotel. Supplies are growing shorter
in the Mission as the weeks go by, and my own are about exhausted, as is also my money. The
children need me, and there is plenty of room in the hotel, though I am not fond of living in one.

I have consulted Mr. H., who sees no harm in my doing this if I want to. Meals are one dollar
each everywhere in Chinik, and most kinds of "grub" one dollar a pound, while for a lodging
the same is charged. To earn my board and room in the hotel by teaching and taking care of
the two children I should be making an equivalent to four dollars a day, and I could have a
room, at last, to myself. This is the way I have figured it out; whether Mollie and the Captain
will see it in the same light remains to be seen.

Later: I ran over to see Mollie and her husband, and to present my plan to them. They both
assented quickly, the Captain saying he does not want Jennie to stop her studies, and she is
fond of having me with her. Besides, her mother wants to spend a good deal of time out hunting
and trapping, as she thinks it better for Jennie, Charlie and herself to have fresh game, of
which they are so fond, than to eat canned meats. I think it is better for them, and shall
not object to some of the same fare myself when it is plenty. I am very glad, indeed, of the
opportunity to earn my board and room in this way, for my work will only be with and for the
two children, and I love them very much.

January thirtieth: A bad storm came up this afternoon with wind and snow. At the Mission one
of the newcomers is making two strong reindeer sleds. He says he is used to Alaska winters,
has been up into the Kotzebue Sound country, and is now going again with reindeer as soon as
his sleds are finished. He is exceedingly fond of music, and enjoys my playing. I wonder if
he will offer to stake a claim for me! I will not ask him.

January thirty-first: This terrible storm continues with snow drifting badly, and with wind
most bitter cold. What about the boys on the Koyuk trail? I fear they will freeze to death.
I have finished six drill parkies for the storekeeper, but cannot get them to him in the blizzard.

February first: I found when calling upon Jennie today that her mother was sick in bed with
a very bad throat, so I spent most of the day and evening there. I did all I could for Jennie
as well as Mollie, doing my best to amuse the child, who is still strapped down on her bed,
and must find the day long, though she has a good deal of company. I had a first-class six
o'clock dinner at the hotel tonight,--that is, for Alaska, at this season of the year.

February second: This is my birthday, and I have been thinking of my dear old mother so far
away, who never forgets the date of her only daughter's birth, even if I do. I should like
to see her, or, at least, have her know how well I am situated, and how contented I am, with
a prospect before me which is as bright as that of most persons in this vicinity. If I could
send my mother a telegram of a dozen words, I think they would read like this: "I am well and
happy, with fair prospects. God is good." I think that would cheer her considerably.

It is beginning to seem a little like spring, and the water is running down the walls and off
the windows in rivers upon the floors of the Mission, which we are glad are bare of carpets;
the snow having sifted into the attic and melted. The warm rain comes down at intervals, and
we are hoping for an early spring.

Mollie is really very sick, and must have a doctor, her throat being terribly swollen on one
side. The pain and fever is intense, and though we are doing all we know how to do, she gets
no better. Some men started out for the doctor at White Mountain, but there was too much water
on the ice, and they returned.

February sixth: The man who made the two reindeer sleds for his Kotzebue trip has gone at last
with two loads and three reindeer. He wanted his drill parkie hood bordered with fur, as I
had done some belonging to others, and I furnished the fox tails, and sewed them on for him.

"Shall I stake a claim for you?" asked the man with a smile the day before he left the Mission.

"O, I would like it so much!" said I, really delighted. "I did not wish to ask you, because
I thought you had promised so many."

"So I have," he replied, "but I guess I can stake for one more, and if I find anything good
I will remember you."

"Shall I have a paper made out?" I inquired, feeling it would be safer and better from a business
point of view to do so.

"You may if you like. I will take it," said he; and I thanked him very cordially, and hastened
to the Commissioner to have the paper drawn up. It did not take long, and the man has taken
it, and gone. Being an old mail carrier and stampeder of experience in this country, he ought
to know how to travel, and, being a Norwegian, he is well used to the snow and the cold. He
says he always travels alone, though I told him he might sometime get lost in a storm and freeze
to death, at which he only laughed, and said he was not at all afraid. Two years afterwards
he was frozen to death on the trail near Teller City, northwest of Nome. He was an expert on
snowshoes or ski, both of which he learned to use when a boy in Norway.

February tenth: The two young men, B. and L., have returned from the Koyuk trip, having been
able to travel only three days of the eleven since they left here on account of blizzards,
but they will not give it up in this way.

Mollie and Jennie are better, the doctor having been here two days. For the little invalid
there is nothing of such interest as Apuk's baby, and as the child is well wrapped and brought
in often to see her, she is highly delighted. She holds the baby in her arms, and hushes it
to sleep as any old woman might, lifting a warning finger if one enters the room with noise,
for fear of waking it. Little Charlie cries with whooping cough a great deal and is taken to
Ageetuk's house when he gets troublesome, as he worries both Mollie and Jennie. Under no consideration
is Charlie to come near enough to Jennie to give her the whooping-cough, for she coughs badly
already. She and I make paper dolls by the dozen, and cloth dresses for her real dolls, which,
so late in the season, are getting quite dilapidated and look as though they had been in the wars.

Many natives are now bringing beautiful furs into camp for sale, and among others one man brought
a cross fox which was black, tipped with yellow, another which was a lovely brown, and a black
fox valued at two hundred dollars which the owner refused to sell for less, though offered
one hundred for it. I have never seen more lovely furs anywhere, and I longed to possess them.

It seems almost like having a hospital here now, for we have another patient added to our sick
list. Joe, the cook, is ill, and thinks he will die, though the doctor smiles quizzically as
she doses him, thinking as she does so that a few days in bed and away from the saloons will
be as beneficial as her prescriptions.

Today the hills surrounding the bay were lovely in the warm sunshine both morning and evening,
pink tinted in the sunrise and purple as night approached.

Mail came in by dog-team from Nome, going to Dawson and the outside, so I mailed several letters.
I wonder if they will be carried two thousand miles by dogs--the whole length of the Yukon,
and finally reach Skagway and Seattle.

What a wicked world this is anyway! My two fox skins were stolen from the living room of the
hotel last night, where I hung them, not far from the stove, after having had them tanned,
and forgetting to take them to my room. I can get no trace of them, and am exceedingly sorry
to lose them. The captain thinks the skins will be returned, but I do not.

The Commissioner from Council came into the hotel, and he, with the resident official, proceeded
to celebrate the occasion by getting uproariously drunk, or going, as it is here called, "on
a toot," which is very truthfully expressive, to say the least.

February eighteenth: The doctor went home several days ago. Mollie is better, and wore, at
the Sunday dinner yesterday, her new grey plaid dress made by Alma, which fits well and looks
quite stylish. I sat with her at the long table which was filled with guests, employees and
boarders--a public place for me, which I do not like over much, but what can I do? The two
Commissioners are sobered, look sickly, and more or less repentant; the resident official declaring
to me he would now quit drinking entirely, and buy me a new silk dress if he is ever seen to
take liquor again.

I had nothing to say to him, except to look disgusted, and he took that as a rebuke. The other
Commissioner was exceedingly polite to me when he came into the living room to bid all good-bye,
and said if, at any time, there was anything in the way of business transactions he could do
for me, to let him know; he would be delighted--as if I would ever ask any favor of him!

The weather is blustery, like March in Wisconsin. Mollie asked me to go upstairs with her,
look at rooms, and select one for myself, which I did, deciding to take a small unfurnished
one (except for a spring cot, mirror, and granite wash bowl and pitcher), as this will be easily
warmed by my big lamp, and it has a west window, through which I will get the afternoon sun.

I cleaned the floor, and tacked up a white tablecloth which I had in my trunk, for a curtain;
spread my one deer skin rug upon the floor, made up the cot bed with my blankets, opened my
trunk, hung up a few garments, and was settled. This is the first spring bed I have slept upon
since Mr. H. took the velvet couch away from the Mission. I found the boarded walls very damp,
as was also the floor after cleaning, but my large lamp, kept burning for two hours, dried
them sufficiently, and I am quite well satisfied.

Ageetuk has been papering the sewing-room with fresh wall paper, and it looks better, but it
has made a good deal of confusion all round, and there are numbers of people, both native and
white, coming and going all day long.

February twenty-third: Yesterday was Washington's Birthday, but quiet here. Today Mollie and
I took Jennie and Charlie out on a sled with Muky to push behind at the handle-bar through
the soft, deep snow. Mollie sat upon the sled, and rode down hill twice with the children,
Muky hopping on behind; but I took a few kodak views of them, which I hope will be good. I
also received some mail from the outside which was written last November.

Some of the men in the hotel have tried to play what they call "a joke" on me. The steward
of the house has a key which unfastens the lock on my door, as well as others; so they went
into my room and tied a string to the foot of my bed, first boring a hole through the boards
into the hall, and running the string through it. This string, I suppose, they intended to
pull in the night and frighten me; but Mollie and I happened to go up there for something and
found it.

I was indignant, but everybody of whom Mollie inquired denied knowing anything of it, and I
said very little. Going to my trunk afterwards, I found that the lock had been picked and broken,--a
pretty severe "joke," and one I do not relish, as now I have no place in which to keep anything
from these men. If they enter my room whenever they choose in the daytime, what is to prevent
them when I am asleep? I took Mollie upstairs and showed her the broken lock, and she stooped
to brush some white hairs from her dark wool skirt.

"Where they come from?" she asked suddenly. Then, picking at the reindeer skin upon the floor
under her feet, she said, nodding her head decidedly, "I know. He--Sim--come to me in sewing-room,--hair
all same this on two knees of blank pants. I say, 'Where you get white reindeer hair on you,
Sim?' He say, 'I don't know.' Sim make hole in wall, and string on bed for you, Mrs. Sullivan.
He make lock peeluk, too," and Mollie's face wore a serious and worried expression.

"O, well, Mollie," said I, "don't worry. I shall say nothing to any of the men as they are
mad at me now."

Mollie nodded significantly and said: "Your fox skins peeluk, Mrs. Sullivan. Sim knows where--he
never tell--sell for whiskey, maybe," and Mollie turned to go, as though he were a hopeless
case, and beyond her government.

"Yes, Mollie, I think so; but you can not help what these bad men do. I know that, and do not
blame you."

"My husband very sorry 'bout fox skins. He cannot find--he no blame," and she seemed to fear
that I would attach some blame to the captain.

"No, indeed, Mollie, I don't think your husband can help what they do. I should not have left
my fox skins hanging in that room, and will be careful in future, but if they come into my
room they may steal other things, and I do not like it."

"I know, I know,--Sim no good--Joe no good--Bub no good," and she went away in a very depressed
state of mind to Jennie and Apuk's baby.

Of course Mollie told all to the captain, who immediately accused the men in the bar-room,
and they all swore vengeance upon me from that on, so I suppose they will do all they can to
torment me.

We are having a sensation in Chinik. The "bloomin' Commissioner" is about to be deposed from
office, for unfitness, neglect of duty, and dissipation; and a petition is being handed around
the camp by the Marshal, praying the Nome authorities that he be retained. The honest storekeeper
refused to sign it, as have many of the Swedes. The Commissioner swears by all that is good
and great to quit drinking, and be decent. Time will tell--but I have no faith in him.

Mollie goes often these days to look for foxes and to shoot ptarmigan, taking with her a dog-team,
and a native boy or two with their guns. When it is bright and sunny, I take the two little
children out in the fur robes on the sled, with a native to push the latter, and I enjoy the
outing fully as well as they. Jennie is put to bed again on her return, and the weight--a sand
bag--attached to her foot, according to the doctor's orders.

The weather is very springlike, and we have wind "emeliktuk," as little Charlie says when he
has a plenty of anything. Snow storms are sandwiched nicely in between, but many "mushers"
are on the trails. Mollie gets now and then a fox, either white or crossed, and one day she
brought in a black one.

