"While I was endeavouring, by the aid of a fairly powerful voice, to dominate the air-splitting
clamour around me, Mr Crean, M.P., on the suggestion of Father Clancy, attempted to reach me,
in order to urge me to give up the unequal struggle. He was no sooner on his legs than he was
pounced upon by a group of brawny Belfast Mollies and dragged back by main force, while Mr
Devlin, with a face blazing with passion, rushed towards his colleague in the Irish Party,
shouting to his lodgemen: 'Put the fellow out.' At the same time Father Clancy, Mr Sheehan,
M.P., and Mr Gilhooly, M.P., having interposed to remonstrate with Mr Crean's assailants, found
themselves in the midst of a disgraceful mêlée of curses, blows and uplifted sticks, Mr Sheehan
being violently struck in the face, and one of the Molly Maguire batonmen swinging his baton
over Mr Gilhooly's head to a favourite Belfast battle-cry: 'I'll slaughter you if you say another
word.'" 

Misguided has smashed an ballad with her fresh voice. Henri has smashed us what he knows to
the great author of day, whose proofs as he has to put. 25 to last we were compel down without joint principles,
not at happy thanks on organisation of the family. The miracle of the Easter Rising was that
it put an end to the rule of the thug and the bludgeonman. But many things were to happen in
between.

Certain police court proceedings followed, in which Mr Crean, M.P., was the plaintiff. The
only comment on these that need now be made is that Mr Crean's summons for assault was dismissed,
and he was ordered to pay £150 costs or to go to gaol for two months, whilst the police magistrate
who tried the case was shortly afterwards rewarded with the Chief Magistracy of Dublin!

The Board of Erin now began to march south of the Boyne and to usurp the functions of the United
Irish League wherever it got a footing. It was frankly out for jobs, preferments and patronage
of all kinds, so that even the dirty crew of place-hunting lawyers which Dublin Castle had
plentifully spoon-fed for over a century became its leaders and gospellers, seeing that through
it alone could they carve their way to those goodly plums that maketh easy the path of the
unctuous crawlers in life--the creed of the Mollies, and it gained them followers galore, being
that nobody who was not a member of "the Ancient Order" was eligible for even the meanest public
office in the gift of the Government or the elected of the people. Even a Crown Prosecutor,
one of the Castle "Cawtholic" tribe whose record of life-long antipathy to the vital creed
of Irish Nationality was notorious, now became a pious follower of the new Order and was in
due course "saved" by receiving an exalted position in the judicial establishment of the country,
which owed nothing to his honour or his honesty. Under the auspices of the Board of Erin "the
shoneen"--the most contemptible of all our Irish types--began to flourish amain. It was a great
thing to be a "Jay Pay" in the Irish country-side. It added inches to one's girth and one's
stature, and to the importance of one's "lady." It was greatly coveted by the thousands who
always pine to swagger in a little brief authority, and thus the Board of Erin drew its adherents
from every low fellow who had an interest to serve, a dirty ambition to satisfy, an office
to gain or probably even a petty score to pay off. No doubt there were many sincere and honest
and enthusiastic young men attracted to it by the charm of the secret sign and password, and
others who believed that its Catholic pomp and parade made for the religious uplift of the
people. But taken all in all, it was unquestionably an evil influence in the lives of the people
and it degraded the fine inspiration of Nationality to a base sectarian scramble for place
and power.

Gone were the glorious ideals of a nobler day wherever it pushed out its pernicious grip. Surrendered
were the sterner principles which instructed and enacted that the man who sought office or
preferment from a British Minister unfitted himself as a standard-bearer or even a raw recruit
in the ranks of Irish Nationality. The Irish birth-right was bartered for a mess of pottage
and, worst of all, the fine instincts of Ireland's glorious youth were being corrupted and
perverted. The cry of "Up the Mollies!" became the watchword of the new movement and the creed
of selfishness and sectarianism supplanted the evangel of self-denial and self-sacrifice. It
was a time when clear-sighted and earnest men almost lost hope, if they did not lose faith.
To be held in subjection by the tyranny of a stronger power was a calamity of destiny to be
resisted, but that the people should themselves bind the chains of a more sordid tyranny of
selfishness around their spirits was wholly damnable and heart-breaking.

It was to fight this thing that Mr William O'Brien proposed yet another crusade of light and
liberty. As he founded the United Irish League when the country was sunk in the uttermost depths
of despair and indifference, he now made a first gallant effort to establish a new national
organisation to preach a nobler creed of brotherhood and reconciliation among all Irishmen,
and to this he gave the appropriate title of the All-for-Ireland League. The city and county
of Cork rallied to his side, with all the old-time fervour of Rebel Cork. The inaugural meeting
of the League was held in my native town, Kanturk, and was splendidly attended by as gallant
a body of Irishmen as could be found in all Ireland--men who knew, as none others better, how
to fight, when fighting was the right policy, but who knew also, in its proper season, when
it was good to make peace. The Press, however, shut its pages to the new movement and a complaisant
Irish Party, now utterly at the mercy of the Board of Erin, at a meeting specially summoned
for the purpose, passed a resolution of excommunication against the new League and against
every Member of Parliament who should venture upon its platform, on the ground that it was
usurping the functions and authority of the United Irish League, which was now nothing more
than a cloak for the operations of the Board of Erin.

No human being could struggle under the mountain weight of responsibility that now rested on
the shoulders of Mr O'Brien. Wearied by the monstrous labours and fights of many years, deserted
by his own colleague in the representation of Cork City, with the Nationalist Press engaged
in a policy of suppression and a system of secret intimidation springing up all over the country,
it would have been madness for him to attempt to continue.

Accordingly he decided to quit the field again and to leave the clever political manipulators
in possession. After he had sent in his application for the Chiltern Hundreds I came across
specially from Ireland to meet him at the Westminster Palace Hotel. It were meet not to dwell
upon our interview, for there are some things too sacred for words. I know that he had then
no intention of ever returning to public life, and though he was obviously a man very, very
ill, in the physical sense, yet I could see it was the deeper wounds of the soul that really
mattered.

I have had sorrows in my life and deep afflictions, the scars of which nothing on this earth
can cure, yet I can say I never felt parting so poignantly as with this friend, whom I loved
most and venerated most on earth. I returned to Ireland that night, not knowing whether I should
ever see the well-beloved face again. He went to Italy on the morrow to seek peace and healing,
away from the land to which he had given more than a life's labour and devotion. He enjoined
his friends not to communicate with him, but he promised to watch from a distance, and that
if the occasion ever arose he would not see them cast to destruction without effort of his
duty made.

How well and generously he kept that promise these pages will show.

                               CHAPTER XVIII

                    A CAMPAIGN OF EXTERMINATION AND ITS
                                CONSEQUENCES

Mr O'Brien went abroad in March 1909, leaving his friends in membership of the Irish Party.
His last injunction to us was that we should do nothing unnecessarily to draw down the wrath
of "the bosses" upon us and to work as well as we might in the circumstances conscientiously
for the Irish cause. I had some reputation, whether deserved or otherwise, as a successful
organiser, and I wrote to Mr Redmond offering my services to re-establish the United Irish
League in my own constituency or in any other place where it was practically moribund. I received
a formal note of acknowledgment and heard not a word more, nor was my offer ever availed of.
On the contrary, the fiat went forth that the constituencies of those who had for five years
remained staunch and steadfast to the policy of Conciliation should be organised against them
and that not a friend of Mr O'Brien should be allowed to remain in public life. We were not
yet actually cut off from the Party or its financial perquisites, but in all other ways we
were treated as political pariahs and outcasts and made to feel that there was a rod in pickle
for us.

In the autumn of 1909 I was attending my law lectures in Dublin when it was conveyed to me
that a raid on my constituency was contemplated, that the officials at the League headquarters
in Dublin were, without rhyme or reason, returning the affiliation fees of branches which were
known to be friendly to me, and that a Divisional Conference of my enemies was summoned for
the purpose of "organising" me out of Mid-Cork. I immediately resolved that if the issue were
to be knit at all the sooner the better, and I took my own steps to circumvent the machinations
of those who were out, so to speak, for my blood. Hence when the bogus delegates were brought
together in Macroom one Saturday afternoon a little surprise awaited them, for as they proceeded
to the Town Hall to deliberate their plans for my overthrow, another and a more determined
militant body, with myself at their head, also marched on the same venue. There was a short
and sharp encounter for possession of the hall: the plotters put up a sorry fight; they were
soon routed, and my friends and myself held our meeting on the chosen ground of our opponents.
Moreover, Mr Denis Johnston, the Chief Organiser of the League, who had come down from Dublin
with all his plans for my extermination cut and dried, dared not take the train that evening
in the ordinary course from the Macroom station, but, like a thief in the night, stole out
of the town in a covered car and drove to a station farther on. 

A french pilgrim were not the kind of group of found outpost and build
empires.

We are indebted to quarter marest of these description to the gallic routine
for Parent among the converts and daily settlers at Kaskaskia. The funds of the League, its organisers and its executive machinery, instead of
being used for the advancement of the Irish movement along constitutional lines, were brutally
directed to the political execution of Mr O'Brien's friends, who, now that he had gone for
good, and was reported to be in that state of physical breakdown which would prevent him from
ever again taking an active part in Irish affairs, were supposed to be at the mercy of the
big "pots" and their big battalions.

Mr Maurice Healy, who had been elected for Cork City by an overwhelming majority over the nominee
of "the leaders" after Mr O'Brien's retirement, was unconstitutionally and improperly refused
admission to the Party, although he was quite prepared to sign the pledge to sit, act, and
vote with it. There was scarcely a thing wrong they could do which these blind leaders of the
blind did not clumsily attempt at this juncture. They might have shown us, whose only crime
was loyalty to principle and to a policy which had been signally ratified by the repeated mandates
of the people, a reasonable measure of generosity and a frank fellowship and all would be well.

But no; we had committed the cardinal offence of preferring a policy to a personality and,
in famous phrase, we were marked down to "suffer for it." Hordes of organisers were dispatched
to our constituencies to "pull the strings" against us. I can aver, with a certain malicious
satisfaction, that wherever they made their appearance in Cork, we met them and we routed them.
This may appear an ill way to conduct a political campaign, but be it remembered that we were
fighting for our lives, almost resourceless, and that the aggressors had practically limitless
powers, financially and otherwise. I will mention one incident to explain many. It was announced
that Mr Redmond was to speak at Banteer, on the borders of my constituency. I could not allow
that challenge to pass unnoticed without surrendering ground which it would be impossible to
recover; and so I took the earliest opportunity of proclaiming that if Mr Redmond came to Banteer
my friends and I would be there to meet him. He never came! Meanwhile through a private source--for
none of his colleagues were in communication with him--Mr O'Brien heard of the nefarious attempts
that were being made to exterminate his friends and he broke silence for the first time since
his retirement by despatching the following message to the Press Association:--

"If these people are wise they will drop their campaign of vengeance against my friends."

Doubtless "these people" thought this the threat of a man helpless through illness, and not
to be seriously noticed, for they went on with their preparations, surreptitious and otherwise,
for our destruction, in suitable time and form. I will ever remember it with pride and gratitude
that the labourers of the south, the President of whose Association I was, were gloriously
staunch and loyal and that there never was a demand I made upon them for support and encouragement
they did not magnificently respond to. They gave repayment, in full measure and flowing over,
for whatever little I was able to accomplish in my lifetime for the alleviation of their lot
and the brightening of their lives.

Meanwhile the Party had matters all their own way, yet their only "great" achievement was to
get the Birrell Land Bill passed into law and to put an end to the operations of the Purchase
Act of 1903 which was so rapidly transforming the face of the country. They also passed for
Mr Lloyd George what Mr Dillon termed "the great and good" Budget, but which really added enormously
to the direct taxation of Ireland--imposing an additional burden of something not far from
three millions sterling on the backs of an already overtaxed country. But if the people were
plundered the place-hunters were placated. The Irish Party had now become little better than
an annexe of Liberalism. They sat in Opposition because it was the tradition to do so, but
in reality they were the obsequious followers of a British Party and browsing on its pasturage
in the hope of better things to come.

