THE canoe is coming to the front and canoeing is gaining rapidly in popular favor, in spite
of the disparaging remark that "a canoe is a poor man's yacht." The canoe editor of Forest
and Stream pertinently says, "we may as properly call a bicycle 'the poor man's express train'."
But, suppose it is the poor man's yacht? Are we to be debarred from aquatic sports because
we are not rich? And are we such weak flunkies as to be ashamed of poverty? Or to attempt shams
and subterfuges to hide it? For myself, I freely accept the imputation. In common with nine-tenths
of my fellow citizens I am poor--and the canoe is my yacht, as it would be were I a millionaire.
We are a nation of many millions and comparatively few of us are rich enough to support a yacht,
let alone the fact that not one man in fifty lives near enough to yachting waters to make such
an acquisition desirable--or feasible, even. It is different with the canoe. A man like myself
can live in the backwoods, a hundred miles from a decent sized inland lake and much further
from the sea coast, and yet be an enthusiastic canoeist. For instance.

Last July I made my preparations for a canoe cruise and spun out with as little delay as possible.
I had pitched on the Adirondacks as cruising ground and had more than 250 miles of railroads
and buckboards to take, before launching the canoe on Moose River. She was carried thirteen
miles over the Brown's Tract road on the head of her skipper, cruised from the western side
of the Wilderness to the Lower St. Regis on the east side, cruised back again by a somewhat
different route, was taken home to Pennsylvania on the cars, 250 miles, sent back to her builder,
St. Lawrence County, N.Y., over 300 miles, thence by rail to New York City, where, the last
I heard of her, she was on exhibition at the Forest and Stream office. She took her chances
in the baggage car, with no special care and is today, so far as I know, staunch and tight,
with not a check in her frail siding.

Such cruising can only be made in a very light canoe and with a very light outfit. It was sometimes
necessary to make several carries in one day, aggregating as much as ten miles, besides from
fifteen to twenty miles under paddle. No heavy, decked, paddling or sailing canoe would have
been available for such a trip with a man of ordinary muscle.

The difference between a lone, independent cruise through an almost unbroken wilderness and
cruising along civilized routes, where the canoeist can interview farm houses and village groceries
for supplies, getting gratuitous stonings from the small boy and much reviling from ye ancient
mariner of the towpath--I say, the difference is just immense. Whence it comes that I always
prefer a very light, open canoe; one that I can carry almost as easily as my hat, and yet that
will float me easily, buoyantly and safely. And such a canoe was my last cruiser. She only
weighed ten and one-half pounds when first launched, and after an all summer rattling by land
and water had only gained half a pound. I do not therefore advise anyone to buy a ten and a
half pound canoe; although she would prove competent for a skilful lightweight. She was built
to order, as a test of lightness and was the third experiment in that line.

I have nothing to say against the really fine canoes that are in highest favor today. Were
I fond of sailing and satisfied to cruise on routes where clearings are more plentiful than
carries, I dare say I should run a Shadow, or Stella Maris, at a cost of considerably more
than $100--though I should hardly call it a "poor man's yacht."

Much is being said and written at the present day as to the "perfect canoe." One writer decides
in favor of a Pearl 15 x 31 1/2 inches. In the same column another says, "the perfect canoe
does not exist." I should rather say there are several types of the modern canoe, each nearly
perfect in its way and for the use to which it is best adapted. The perfect paddling canoe
is by no means perfect under canvas and vice versa. The best cruiser is not a perfect racer,
while neither of them is at all perfect as a paddling cruiser where much carrying is to be
done. And the most perfect canoe for fishing and gunning around shallow, marshy waters, would
be a very imperfect canoe for a rough and ready cruise of one hundred miles through a strange
wilderness, where a day's cruise will sometimes include a dozen miles of carrying.

Believing, as I do, that the light, single canoe with double-bladed paddle is bound to soon
become a leading--if not the leading--feature in summer recreation, and having been a light
canoeist for nearly fifty years, during the last twenty of which I experimented much with the
view of reducing weight, perhaps I can give some hints that may help a younger man in the selection
of a canoe which shall be safe, pleasant to ride and not burdensome to carry.

Let me promise that, up to four years ago, I was never able to get a canoe that entirely satisfied
me as to weight and model. I bought the smallest birches I could find; procured a tiny Chippewa
dugout from North Michigan and once owned a kayak. They were all too heavy and they were cranky
to a degree.

About twenty years ago I commenced making my own canoes. The construction was of the simplest;
a 22 inch pine board for the bottom, planed to 3/4 of an inch thickness; two wide 1/2 inch
boards for the sides and two light oak stems; five pieces of wood in all. I found that the
bend of the siding gave too much shear; for instance, if the siding was 12 inches wide, she
would have a rise of 12 inches at stems and less than 5 inches at center. But the flat bottom
made her very stiff, and for river work she was better than anything I had yet tried. She was
too heavy, however, always weighing from 45 to 50 pounds and awkward to carry.

My last canoe of this style went down the Susquehanna with an ice jam in the spring of '79,
and in the meantime canoeing began to loom up. The best paper in the country which makes outdoor
sport its specially, devoted liberal space to canoeing, and skilled boatbuilders were advertising
canoes of various models and widely different material. I commenced interviewing the builders
by letter and studying catalogues carefully. There was a wide margin of choice. You could have
lapstreak, smooth skin, paper, veneer, or canvas. What I wanted was light weight and good model.
I liked the Peterboro canoes; they were decidedly canoey. Also, the veneered Racines: but neither
of them talked of a 20 pound canoe. The "Osgood folding canvas" did. But I had some knowledge
of canvas boats. I knew they could make her down to 20 pounds. How much would she weigh after
being in the water a week and how would she behave when swamped in the middle of a lake, were
questions to be asked, for I always get swamped. One builder of cedar canoes thought he could
make me the boat I wanted, inside of 20 pounds, clinker-built and at my own risk, as he hardly
believed in so light a boat. I sent him the order and he turned out what is pretty well known
in Brown's Tract as the "Nessmuk canoe." She weighed just 17 pounds 13 3/4 ounces and was thought
to be the lightest working canoe in existence. Her builder gave me some advice about stiffening
her with braces, etc., if I found her too frail, "and he never expected another like her."

"He builded better than he knew." She needed no bracing; and she was, and is, a staunch, seaworthy
little model. I fell in love with her from the start. I had at last found the canoe that I
could ride in rough water, sleep in afloat, and carry with ease for miles. I paddled her early
and late, mainly on the Fulton Chain; but I also cruised her on Raquette Lake, Eagle, Utowana,
Blue Mountain and Forked Lakes, I paddled her until there were black and blue streaks along
the muscles from wrist to elbow. Thank Heaven, I had found something that made me a boy again.
Her log shows a cruise for 1880 of over 550 miles.

As regards her capacity (she is now on Third Lake, Brown's Tract), James P. Fifield, a muscular
young Forge House guide of 6 feet 2 inches and 185 pounds weight, took her through the Fulton
Chain to Raquette Lake last summer; and, happening on his camp, Seventh Lake, last July, I
asked him how she performed under his weight. He said, "I never made the trip to Raquette so
lightly and easily in my life." And as to the opinion of her builder, he wrote me, under date
of Nov. 18, '83: "I thought when I built the Nessmuk, no one else would ever want one. But
I now build about a dozen of them a year. Great big men, ladies, and two, aye, three schoolboys
ride in them. Tis wonderful how few pounds of cedar, rightly modeled and properly put together,
it takes to float a man," Just so, Mr. Builder. That's what I said when I ordered her. But
few seemed to see it then.

The Nessmuk was by no means the ultimatum of lightness and I ordered another six inches longer,
two inches wider, and to weigh about 15 pounds. When she came to hand she was a beauty, finished
in oil and shellac. But she weighed 16 pounds and would not only carry me and my duffle, but
I could easily carry a passenger of my weight. I cruised her in the summer of '81 over the
Fulton Chain, Raquette Lake, Forked Lake, down the Raquette River, and on Long Lake. But her
log only showed a record of 206 miles. The cruise that had been mapped for 600 miles was cut
short by sickness and I went into quarantine at the hostelry of Mitchell Sabattis. Slowly and
feebly I crept back to the Fulton Chain, hung up at the Forge House, and the cruise of the
Susan Nipper was ended. Later in the season, I sent for her and she was forwarded by express,
coming out over the fearful Brown's Tract road to Boonville (25 1/2 miles) by buckboard, From
Boonville home, she took her chances in the baggage car without protection and reached her
destination without a check or scratch. She hangs in her slings under the porch, a thing of
beauty--and, like many beauties, a trifle frail-- but staunch as the day I took her. Her proper
lading is about 200 pounds. She can float 300 pounds.

Of my last and lightest venture, the Sairy Camp, little more need be said. I will only add
that a Mr. Dutton, of Philadelphia, got into her at the Forge House and paddled her like an
old canoeist, though it was his first experience with the double blade. He gave his age as
sixty-four years and weight, 140 pounds. Billy Cornell, a bright young guide, cruised her on
Raquette Lake quite as well as her owner could do it, and I thought she trimmed better with
him. He paddled at 14 1/2 pounds, which is just about her right lading. And she was only an
experiment, anyhow. I wanted to find out how light a canoe it took to drown her skipper, and
I do not yet know. I never shall. But, most of all, I desired to settle the question approximately
at least, of weight, as regards canoe and canoeist.

Many years ago, I became convinced that we were all, as canoeists, carrying and paddling just
twice as much wood as was at all needful, and something more than a year since, I advanced
the opinion in Forest and Stream, that ten pounds of well made cedar ought to carry one hundred
pounds of man. The past season has more than proved it; but, as I may be a little exceptional,
I leave myself out of the question and have ordered my next canoe on lines and dimensions that,
in my judgment, will be found nearly perfect for the average canoeist of 150 to 160 pounds.
She will be much stronger than either of any other canoes, because few men would like a canoe
so frail and limber that she can be sprung inward by hand pressure on the gunwales, as easily
as a hat-box. And many men are clumsy or careless with a boat, while others are lubberly by
nature. Her dimensions are: Length, 10 1/2 feet; beam, 26 inches; rise at center, 9 inches:
at seams, 15 inches; oval red elm ribs, 1 inch apart; an inch home tumble; stems, plumb and
sharp; oak keel and keelson; clinker-built, of white cedar.

Such a canoe will weigh about 22 pounds and will do just as well for the man of 140 or 170
pounds, while even a light weight of 110 pounds ought to take her over a portage with a light,
elastic carrying frame, without distress. She will trim best, however, at about 160 pounds.
For a welter, say of some 200 pounds, add 6 inches to her length, 2 inches to her beam and
1 inch rise at center. The light weight canoeist will find that either of these two canoes
will prove satisfactory, that is 10 feet in length, weight 16 pounds, or 10 1/2 feet length,
weight 18 pounds. Either is capable of 160 pounds and they are very steady and buoyant, as
I happen to know. I dare say any first class manufacturers will build canoes of these dimensions.

Provide your canoe with a flooring of oilcloth 3 1/2 feet long by 15 inches wide; punch holes
in it and tie it neatly to the ribbing, just where it will best protect the bottom from wear
and danger. Use only a cushion for a seat and do not buy a fancy one with permanent stuffing,
but get sixpence worth of good, unbleached cotton cloth and have it sewed into bag shape. Stuff
the bag with fine browse, dry grass or leaves, settle it well together and fasten the open
end by turning it flatly back and using two or three pins, You can empty it if you like when
going over a carry, and it makes a good pillow at night.

Select a canoe that fits you, just as you would a coat or hat. A 16 pound canoe may fit me
exactly, but would be a bad misfit for a man of 180 pounds. And don't neglect the auxiliary
paddle, or "pudding stick," as my friends call it. The notion may be new to most canoeists,
but will be found exceedingly handy and useful. It is simply a little one-handed paddle weighing
5 to 7 ounces, 20 to 22 inches long, with a blade 3 1/2 inches wide. Work it out of half-inch
cherry or maple and fine the blade down thin. Tie it to a rib with a slip-knot, having the
handle in easy reach, and when you come to a narrow, tortuous channel, where shrubs and weeds
crowd you on both sides, take the double-blade inboard, use the pudding stick, and you can
go almost anywhere that a muskrat can.

In fishing for trout or floating deer, remember you are dealing with the wary, and that the
broad blades are very showy in motion. Therefore, on approaching a spring-hole, lay the double-blade
on the lily-pads where you can pick it up when wanted and handle your canoe with the auxiliary.
On hooking a large fish, handle the rod with one hand and with the other lay the canoe out
into deep water, away from all entangling alliances. You may be surprised to find how easily,
with a little practice, you can make a two-pound trout or bass tow the canoe the way you want
it to go.

In floating for deer, use the double-blade only in making the passage to the ground; then take
it apart and lay it inboard, using only the little paddle to float with, tying it to a rib
with a yard and a half of linen line. On approaching a deer near enough to shoot, let go the
paddle, leaving it to drift alongside while you attend to venison.

Beneath a hemlock grim and dark,
    Where shrub and vine are intertwining,
Our shany stands, well roofed with bark,
    On which the cheerful blaze is shining.
The smoke ascends in spiral wreath,
    With upward curve the sparks are trending;
The coffee kettle sings beneath
    Where sparks and smoke with leaves are blending.

And on the stream a light canoe
    Floats like a freshly fallen feather,
A fairy thing, that will not do
    For broader seas and stormy weather.
Her sides no thicker than the shell
    Of Ole Bull's Cremona fiddle,
The mall who rides her will do well
    To part his scalp-lock in the middle.

Forest Runes  --Nessmuk

CHAPTER X Odds And Ends--Where To Go For An Outing--Why A Clinker?--Boughs And Browse

THE oft-recurring question as to where to go for the outing, can hardly be answered at all
satisfactorily. In a general way, any place may, and ought to be, satisfactory, where there
are fresh green woods, pleasant scenery, and fish and game plenty enough to supply the camp
abundantly, with boating facilities and pure water.

"It's more in the man than it is in the land," and there are thousands of such places on the
waters of the Susquehanna, the Delaware, the rivers and lakes of Maine, Michigan, Wisconsin
and Canada.

Among the lakes of Central New York one may easily select a camping ground, healthy, pleasant,
easily reached and with the advantage of cheapness. A little too much civilization, perhaps;
but the farmers are friendly and kindly disposed to all summer outers who behave like gentlemen.

For fine forest scenery and unequaled canoeing facilities, it must be admitted that the Adirondack
region stands at the head. There is also fine fishing and good hunting, for those who know
the right places to go for deer and trout. But it is a tedious, expensive job getting into
the heart of the Wilderness, and it is the most costly woodland resort I know of when you are
there. You can keep expenses down (and also have a much better sport) by avoiding the hotels
and going into camp at once and staying there. The best way is for two men to hire a guide,
live in camp altogether and divide the expense.

All along the Allegheny range, from Maine to Michigan and from Pennsylvania to the Provinces,
numberless resorts exist as pleasant, as healthy, as prolific of sport, as the famed Adironbacks,
and at half the cost. But, for an all-summer canoe cruise, with more than 600 accessible lakes
and ponds, the Northern Wilderness stands alone. And, as a wealthy cockney once remarked to
me in Brown's Tract, "It's no place for a poor man."

And now I will give my reasons for preferring the clinker-built cedar boat, or canoe, to any
other. First, as to material. Cedar is stronger, more elastic, more enduring and shrinks less
than pine or any other light wood used as boat siding. As one of the best builders in the country
says, "It has been thoroughly demonstrated that a cedar canoe will stand more hard knocks than
an oak one; for where it only receives bruises, the oak streaks will split." And he might add,
the pine will break. But I suppose it is settled beyond dispute that white cedar stands at
the head for boat streaks. I prefer it then, because it is the best. And I prefer the clinker,
because it is the strongest, simplest, most enduring and most easily repaired in case of accident.
To prove the strength theory, take a cedar (or pine) strip eight feet long and six inches wide.
Bend it to a certain point by an equal strain on each end and carefully note the result. Next
strip it lengthwise with the rip saw, lap the two halves an inch and nail the lap as in boat
building. Test it again and you will find it has gained in strength about twenty per cent.
That is the clinker of it.

