I held my first meeting in the repairing shop at Irkutsk at 3 P.M., March 4. It was a big crowd
of working men and women. The Russian women work on the railways in such employments as carriage
and wagon cleaners, snow and ice shovellers, and even repairing gangs on different sections
of the line have a sprinkling of the fair sex.

This audience listened to an explanation of the rise of the trade union movement in England
with the greatest attention. The large majority accepted the proposition I tried to expound,
that no question could be settled by the disputants merely killing each other off; but there
were present about half a dozen members of the International World Workers, slouch-hatted,
unshaven, and exactly true to type as seen at meetings in East London, Liverpool or Glasgow.
These were not workmen employed on the railway; one kept a barber's shop, one was a teacher,
one a Russian doctor, and one a Russian solicitor; but they were the officials of the only
form of union that exists in Russian Siberia, a revolutionary circle composed of the very worst
elements in the towns, bound together by one common purpose, the spoliation and assassination
of every decent man, whether bourgeois or workman, who refuses to support a policy of anarchy.
These five or six determined ruffians formed a kind of Blood Brotherhood, and behind a veil
of anonymity issued mandates to, and in the name of, the Russian workmen, which, backed up
by a system of murderous terrorism, the workmen were powerless to resist. It was quite a usual
thing to find each morning dead men of all classes in the streets who had been murdered during
the night by members of these circles. There was no system of law or police; every vestige
of justice was uprooted, and these crimes went unpunished. The irony of it was that these acts
were avowedly done in the interest of progress and reform and in the sacred name of Labour!

The Irkutsk Circle asked questions which were not calculated to elicit a single fact connected
with labour, either in Russia or England, but were just the usual clap-trap monkey business,
such as:

"Why should we be satisfied with half, when we have the bourgeoisie down and can take all?"

"Why should we allow law to be re-established, which was always used by the few to rob the many?"

"Surely it is less unjust to allow the many to continue to rob the few?"

"In destroying the landlord and capitalist are not the Russian proletariat merely taking back
its own property?"

"Is it not a fact that the more systematically and effectively we annihilate the bourgeois
and landlord class, and all the institutions belonging to them, the easier it will be to erect
the new order?"

These are all very subtle and difficult to answer briefly at a meeting of Russian workmen,
not one of whom can read or write. It was wonderful foresight which placed Madame Frank, the
editress of the Russian Army, as correspondent for this labour mission. She fastened on to
each question in turn and gave instance after instance of how the suggestions they contained
had worked out in practice, to the total destruction of all that was good and honourable in
Russia. Then with magnificent play on the words "the new order" in the last question, she drew
a picture of this new order as exhibited in practice in that part of Russia under Bolshevik
control. The influence of this little lady upon these simple Russian workmen was really remarkable.
It was quite evident that the workmen would prefer the old régime to the new if Bolshevik tyranny
is the only possible outcome of the new order.

Our next stop was Imokentievskaya, where the head of the works looked as though he would have
preferred execution rather than take part in a workmen's meeting. The professionals had been
left behind, and the audience was composed entirely of the railway workers. They presented
many characteristics of the average English workmen and hungrily received information relating
to the methods of the best organised English trade unions. They had no idea of the things we
had done and the progress we had made in bettering the working conditions of labour generally.
Their professional leaders had disposed of the British movement by describing our organisation
as "bourgeois trade unions," and always referred to our trade union activities as though we
were organised and internally managed by the capitalist. They were surprised to learn that
we were the only exclusively working-class organisation in the world; that the officials must
have worked at the trade whose society they managed; that we did not, like themselves, allow
doctors, lawyers, and mere politicians to manage our affairs, but insisted upon having our
trade unions in our own hands. One real old "Russky" engine-driver asked: "If the English workmen
found it so advantageous to keep their organisations exclusively working-class, why did not
the Germans do the same?" I answered, "When a movement starts wrong it is very difficult to
put it right; that outsiders all over the world struggle for a place in the trade unions, and
if once they get in they either break themselves or the union rather than get out, and those
who can't get in hang on outside like limpets and refuse to be kicked off; that the Russian
workmen in organising their trade unions must start right and keep them free of every element
except the working class."

We stopped at Zema, the scene of a sharp encounter with armed strikers a few months previous.
The meeting in the works was a great success. It was remarkable to find that though in my previous
meeting with these workmen I took the attitude of a military dictator, they showed no resentment
and had rigidly observed the agreement which had been entered into at the point of the bayonet.
They were delighted to find that I, too, had performed my part of the contract in not forgetting
their interests when opportunity presented itself.

Nesniodinsk was not on my list, but a special request having been presented for me to address
the workmen there, we made the necessary arrangements and visited this place on Sunday, March
8. It was perhaps the largest meeting held up to that point. The official heads had caused
a special platform to be erected in a huge engine-repairing shop, and themselves took the greatest
interest in the whole proceeding. It was a very harassing business, but if as an outcome the
seed of orderly progress was sown, the effort was entirely worth while.

Our carriage was fastened to the rear of a slow-moving train going west, and we did not arrive
at Kansk till the evening of the 10th.

Kansk is the most easterly point of the area of revolt and a fairly large depot for the railway.
Some interesting facts about the revolt were picked up from the railway officials. The revolt
began suddenly on December 26, at the same time that it broke out in Omsk and Kolumsino, and
at first was aimed at the possession of the railway. The military guard at Kansk consisted
of one officer and fifty men. The officer posted his sentries at different points some distance
away, and the soldiers who acted as his personal guard awoke to find their sleeping-place and
arms in the possession of half a dozen armed men. The marauders shouted "Your officer is dead,"
and ordered the men to lie still while they removed the rifles. This done, they proceeded to
the quarters of the officer, who, finding his men already disarmed, bolted without firing a
shot. The total strength of the Bolsheviks was fifteen men, and these fifteen held the station
and a town of over five thousand inhabitants up to ransom for twenty-six hours! At the end
of that time a squadron of Cossacks approached, and the Bolsheviks left, taking with them about
80,000 roubles belonging to the railway and post office. During their short stay they committed
all sorts of barbarities. They murdered the railway school-mistress and tortured her husband
by stripping him and pouring cold water over his naked body, finally driving him out into the
snow, where he quickly froze to death. The charge against their two victims in this case was
that they, by their calling, were teaching the youth of Russia to become young bourgeoisie,
instead of leaving all men and women equal as nature intended.

This garden of autocracy grows some strange plants. These banditti, known in England as Bolsheviks,
are entrenched not more than 60 versts distant, protected from Koltchak's vengeance by the
deep snows of the Siberian winter, which make it impossible to operate away from the railway.

We held a splendid meeting of the workmen in the enormous workshop, remarkable for the quiet
enthusiasm and the evident hope of better times. It was quite clear to me that the Russian
workmen were tired of the Revolution. They were promised an Eldorado and realised Hell instead.
They merely wanted to be shown a way out of the social nightmare. They passed a vote of thanks
to me and the English workmen for whom I spoke.

We started for Krasnoyarsk on the 12th, and before long found it necessary to get the machine
guns and hospital equipment ready for instant use. After standing to arms all night we arrived,
at midday on the 13th, at Klukvinah, the Russian Headquarters, and discovered that the Government
forces had driven the enemy back from the railway, and that the remainder of our journey to
Krasnoyarsk would be practically safe. We arrived about 9.15 P.M. on Wednesday, the 13th.

Colonel Frank, Madame Frank, myself and the Czech interpreter, Vladimir, were passing through
the station on our return from the town about 12.30 midnight, when a rather exciting incident
occurred. The station commandant approached Colonel Frank and appealed to him for help to send
home a party of Serbian soldiers who had procured drink without payment at the point of their
swords and revolvers, and had stripped a young woman passenger and exposed her for their orgies.
Other bestial things were alleged against them, but no one had so far dared to interfere to
restore order. After a moment's consideration Colonel Frank decided to go into the buffet and
ask them to go quietly home, and if they refused, to secure force to arrest and remove them.
I naturally followed.

It was a big stone-floored room with the door at one end and a long bar at the other. The alleged
Serbian soldiers were seated in a cluster on the right in front of the bar at the far end of
the room. Colonel Frank advanced to them and said, "Brothers, you have had enough to drink,
you are keeping all the attendants from their proper rest; it is time for you to go home."
It was like an electric shock. About a dozen of the ruffians sprang to their feet hurling every
possible Slavonic epithet at this brave Russian officer who was merely performing a public
duty. One dark-visaged Serb cavalryman drew his sword and tried a lunge at the colonel across
the table, and while the colonel watched this infuriated aborigine a Serbian officer close
behind Frank tore the epaulette from the colonel's uniform and trampled it underfoot, shouting,
"Death to this officer of the old régime!"

I picked up the epaulette just as the other Serb, sword in one hand and revolver in the other,
edged round the tables to the centre of the room for his attack upon my liaison officer. I
did not think of drawing my own weapon, and so far it was man to man. Colonel Frank kept his
eye fixed upon his antagonist, and now advanced towards him, ordering him to put down his arms
and leave the room. But the Serb was out for blood and made a slash at the polkovnika's head,
the full force of which he evaded by ducking, though the sword severed the chin strap and button
of his cap and carved its way through the thick band before it glanced up off the skull, helped
by his right hand, which had been raised to turn the blow. At the same instant Colonel Frank
fired point blank at the man's face; the bullet entered the open mouth and came out of the
cheek, which merely infuriated the man more. Up to this moment the man had only used his sword,
but now he began to raise his revolver. Before he could raise it hip high, however, the colonel
shot him through the heart. Though the revolver dropped from his helpless hand, he crouched
for one instant and sprang, clutching at the colonel's face, while four or five of his fellow
Serbs attacked the colonel from behind. The foremost of these ruffians, a Serbian officer,
fired at the back of the colonel's head and missed, but his second shot struck Colonel Frank
on the left temple at the moment his real assailant had made his death spring, and down they
both went, apparently dead, the Serbian on top. The other Serbs sprang forward to finish the
Russian officer with the usual ugly dagger which Serbian robbers always carry. The body of
the dead Serb, however, formed a complete shield, and this, coupled with the fact that we all
thought the colonel dead, saved him from mutilation.

I was not quite an idle spectator, but the fact that at the critical moment I discovered I
had no weapon except for my cane reduced me to helplessness so far as dealing with this gang
of murderers was concerned. Directly the fight began every Russian, including the armed militiaman
who was supposed to keep order at the station, bolted from the room, leaving the women and
children to look after themselves. Madame Frank went to the assistance of her husband and covered
him as only a woman can, and as she grasped her husband's revolver the Serbs slunk back a pace,
while I lifted his head and signed to the Serb officer who had fired at the colonel from behind
to lift the dead Serb off the colonel's body. This he did and then proposed to the band surrounding
us that they should kill us all three. Their knives glistened and a small automatic revolver
was making a bee line for me, when a voice like the growl of a bear came from the direction
of the door. The whole band instantly put up their weapons. I had stood up to receive my fate,
and over the heads of our would-be murderers I saw a tall dark-bearded stage villain in a long
black overcoat which reached to the floor, stalk across to the group. He looked at the body
of the dead Serb and then at the prostrate Russian officer who at that instant began to show
signs of returning consciousness. "Ah! Oh! Russky polkovnik," he roared, drawing his revolver.
"Our dead brother demands blood."

I could not stand and see a wounded friend murdered before my eyes, not even in this land of
blood. I stepped over both bodies and placed myself between this monster and his victim. I
raised both hands and pushed him back, saying, "I am Anglisky polkovnik, and will not allow
you to murder the wounded Russian officer." He answered that he was "Serbian polkovnik," and
I said "Come into the other room," and by strategy got him away. His friends, however, told
him something which sent him back quickly to finish his job, but as he re-entered the buffet
he encountered about a dozen British and Czech soldiers with fixed bayonets, and it was not
so difficult now to convince him that it was not quite good form to murder a wounded man.

We carried the Russian colonel to the British hospital, and as the leader of the Serbs had
declared a blood feud, extra guards were placed on my wagon and the hospital. These ruffians
were armed from our supplies under the direction of French officers. Directly the Russian military
authorities began their investigations to bring this band to justice they, through the Czech
commander, received orders from General Ganin, the French Allied commander, to move to Novo
Nikoliosk out of Russian jurisdiction.

It is not very clear at present why the French gave their protection to these and similar disturbing
elements in Siberia. Perhaps the reason will show itself later.

Krasnoyarsk is a huge railway depot with building and repairing shops employing about 3,000
workmen. To get at both shifts it was necessary to hold two meetings, one for the inside and
the other for the outside staff. The first was a very silent, interested crowd, who listened
to my address as though they understood its meaning and purport. The gallant "Russky" polkovnika
with bandaged head and hand translated the first part, Madame Frank the second. The impression
created by this brave woman, who had herself commanded a company in the trenches before Kerensky
destroyed the army, was very great. There was no mistaking the effect of her words as these
oil-stained workmen raised their papahas to the message from the English trade unionists which
she delivered.

This town was the centre of international intrigue. There was an Italian battalion about 1,500
strong, the Czech 12th Regiment of about 200, and the British Middlesex Regiment, 220. To maintain
their prestige the French were arming the Lett revolters as fast as the Russian General Affinasiaff
could defeat and disarm them. The Italian soldiers were in very bad favour with the inhabitants
and the local Russian civil and military authorities. Robberies and assaults were of almost
daily occurrence, and at last the authorities made definite official complaints to the Allied
Headquarters and asked that the Italian soldiers should either be kept under proper discipline
or removed from the country. The main complaint, however, of the Russian officials was based
on the open hostility of the Allied officers led by the senior of them to everything Russian.

It is such an easy matter to make friends with the Russian people that this attitude of her
alleged helpers was very saddening. When I landed at "Vlady" my orders were to remember that
we English had come as friends to help Russia on to her feet, and I always tried to keep that
in mind. I often wondered what instructions could have been given to my Allied colleagues.

The next call was at Bogotol, where, under instructions from Consul Peacock, I inquired into
the imprisonment of an Australian subject named Savinoff. The authorities produced the dossier
of his case, which when translated proved him to be a Bolshevik leader and second in command
of an armed band that had attempted to murder the local authorities. His trial took place shortly
after, with that of Titoff, his chief, who was one of the Central Committee of the Baltic Fleet
who ordered the murder of hundreds of the naval officers of the old régime.

The meeting maintained the usual standard of interest, and the chief of the works, whose face
bore traces of the tortures inflicted upon him under Bolshevik rule, was delighted with the
new hope we had brought to himself and his workmen.

Our next meeting was at Taiga, and it was quite a great event. A special platform had been
erected in the big workshop, around which swarmed nearly two thousand workmen. The people looked
upon the meeting as the new birth of Russian life. No meeting had been held for two years,
except the underground gatherings of conspirators. I appealed to the men to discard disorder
and take a hand in the orderly reconstruction of the new Russian State, in which they were
now guaranteed a place. Madame Frank's translation made a profound impression upon these toil-worn
men and women. It was clear that the people were tired of the horrors of revolution and yearned
for peace and quiet.

I here interviewed General Knox, who was on his way to Omsk on important matters which had
been brought to my notice.

We arrived at Novo Nikoliosk on the morning of the 23rd, and proceeded to make arrangements
for the meeting to be held on the same day. I visited the various commands, as usual, and held
long consultations with General Zochinko, from whom I gathered much information as to the situation
in this important district. It was interesting to hear some news of our old friend, the Voidavoda
of the Serbian band. He and his gang had arrived from his excursion to Krasnoyarsk on the day
that a banquet was held by the newly-formed Polish regiment. As chief of his band he was invited,
and delivered an oration of a particularly patriotic character which had won all Polish hearts.
He was in a great hurry to get away next morning, fearing that we were following behind. He
said nothing about our encounter, and the Russian officials became suspicious of his anxiety
to get away. They brought a squad of soldiers to examine his trucks, and found an enormous
amount of loot from Krasnoyarsk, as well as contraband goods upon which he had to pay duty
to the amount of 130,000 roubles. Having squeezed this toll out of the "bounder," they gave
him a free way to Ekaterinburg, where things are very scarce, and where he would be able to
sell out at a good figure.

General Zochinko told us some funny stories about the French Staff's attempt to form a powerful
counter force to Bolshevism from the German and Austrian war prisoners. In Novo Nikoliosk the
Allied Commander, General Ganin, had released some hundreds of Austrian and German Poles from
the prison camps and formed them into regiments. In his haste to get these units complete he
forgot to inquire into the antecedents of the officers chosen to command them. So careless,
in fact, were the French that the Russian authorities awoke one morning to find one of their
most dangerous prisoners, a well-known German officer spy, von Budburg, in full command of
this alleged Allied force. Von Budburg had, like a true patriot, taken care to choose his subordinates
from men of the same type as himself.

Later on the French Staff became aware of the nature of their handiwork and sought help and
advice from the Russian military authorities about disarming their new German Legion. A sudden
descent on their quarters by another Polish unit, with some new Russian units standing by to
render help if necessary, ended in these French protégés being disarmed and got back safely
to their prison camp.

Allied help to Russia is like a jig-saw puzzle, a mystery even to the man who devised it. A
straight-forward recognition of the Omsk Government would have been an honest hand for honest
work, but where would Allied diplomacy have come in? Diplomacy is only necessary when there
are ulterior objects than mere plain, unambiguous assistance to a helpless friend. What are
these hidden objects? The Allies had better be cautious how they proceed in the diagnosis and
dismemberment of this great people or they may find themselves on the operating table with
this giant holding the knife. In spite of the Biblical legend I prefer England to be a pal
with Goliath!

