Nannie then, by way of consolation, suggested that Sara should say her prayers at my knee.
It was the greatest compliment she could pay any one. Sara consented after much pressure, and
she knelt down and proceeded to pack up her face. No other word to my mind describes the process.
First of all she shut her eyes tight. To keep them tight seemed to require a great physical
effort; this was done by tightly screwing up her nose. Next she proceeded to gather her eyebrows
into the smallest possible compass, and then she drew a deep breath, folded her small hands,
and started off at a terrific pace, "Gaw bess parver yan muvver yan nannie yan hughyan betty
yan dicky an aunt woggles yan ellen yan emma yan croft--yan blusby yan all ve vitty children
yan make dem velly good boys yan make my nastyole bunnyagoodgirl. May Yaya get up?"

"Not yet, baby, think," said Nannie.

Sara thought, and then with a fresh access of solemnity repeated an entirely new version of
the Lord's Prayer. Nannie understood it evidently, for at a point quite unintelligible to me,
Nannie said, "Good girl!" and Sara jumped up.

Nannie told me that nothing would induce Sara to pray that she might be made good. She was
always very ready to make such petitions on the behalf of Betty and Hugh, but for herself,
no. She is not like Betty, who at her age prayed, "Dear God, please make me a good little girl,
but if you can't manage it, don't bother about it; Nannie will soon do it."

Difficult and tedious as the task may have appeared to Betty, I think it was assuredly within
the power of God to make her good without the intervention of Nannie. Dear Betty!

Sara was then put to bed, and while Nannie brushed her hair, Sara brushed the hearth-brush's
hair. Sara was very anxious to have it in her bath with her, but here Nannie was firm.

Later the hearth-brush was dressed in a nightgown and laid beside Sara in her little bed. The
last thing she did before going to sleep was to gaze at her darling "blush" with rapture and
say, "Nasty--'ollid--bunny!"

Her eyelashes fluttered and then gently fell on her cheek, as a butterfly hovers and then settles
on the petal of a rose.

"Leave it here, miss," said Nannie; "she'll see it when she wakes."

I left the despised bunny and went to dress for dinner. Betty was waiting for me outside. "Is
the cooking-stove for my very own self, Aunt Woggles?"

"Absolutely, Betty. Why?"

"Only because Hugh wondered if it wasn't or him, too. He only wondered, and I said I didn't
suppose one present could be for two people, because then it wouldn't be such a very real present,
would it?"

I said, "Of course not"; and I told her the story of the two men who owned one elephant, and
one man said to the other: "I don't know what you are going to do with your half; I am going
to shoot mine!"

"And did he, Aunt Woggles?" asked Betty, her eyes wide with horror.

"I wonder," I said. "I'll race you to the end of the passage."

"I won," cried Betty. "No, we both of us did," she added, slipping her hand into mine.

That evening Diana told me that a few days before, she had heard the following conversation
between Hugh and Betty:

"I am going to shoot my cock."

"Hugh!" said Betty, "don't, it's a darlin' cock."

"But it doesn't lay eggs," said Hugh.

"I don't think cocks are supposed to lay eggs," said Betty thoughtfully.

"Well, I don't see why they shouldn't," said Hugh; "widowers have children."

Chapter IV

Suppose all aunts, that is to say, all professional aunt, know what it is to be visited at
seven o'clock in the morning by nephews and nieces, fresh, vigorous, and rosy after a night's
rest. Fresh, and oh! so vigorous and deliciously rosy were Hugh and Betty when they appeared
at my bedside at seven o'clock the next morning.

"Hullo!" said Hugh, "we've come. May we get into your bed? I'll get up steam and take a long
run and jump in. Shall I?"

I braced myself up for the shock. There is no need to go through the morning's program; I suppose
every aunt knows it. Bears, camel-rides, robbers, and various other things, all of a distinctly
energetic nature. At half past seven-you see it doesn't take long, any aunt can bear half an
hour--Nannie appeared, carrying a deliciously rosy Sara with her hair done on the top, which
makes her more than ever fascinating; and in her arms she carried her bunny--Sara's arms, I
mean, of course. "Nice bunny," she said.

"Who gave you your bunny?" I asked.

"Jesus!" said Sara, triumphantly nodding her head and opening her eyes very wide. "Jesus makes
all ve bunnies, and all ve vitty dickey birds, and all ve vitty fowers, and all ve big fowers
and all ve ponge cakes, and Yaya."

"And what is Sara going to do with her bunny?" I asked.

"Vuv it," she said with ecstasy.

"Shall I leave her?" asked Nannie.

"What a foolish question, Nannie!" I said. "Could any one send away a blue dressing-be-gowned
Sara?"

"And shall I take the others, miss?"

"Do," I replied.

They went and left me in sole possession of Sara.

"Shall I tell Sara a story?" I said. She nodded her head.

"A storlie all about bunnies."

So I began, "Once upon a time there was a big bunny."

"A vitty bunny," said Sara.

"A little bunny," I said. "Once upon a time there was a little bunny."

"A velly, velly vitty bunny," said Sara.

"Once upon a time there was a very, very little bunny," I repeated, emphasizing the "very,
very little," as Sara had done. She cuddled into the bedclothes, evidently quite satisfied
with the beginning as it now stood. "And the very, very little bunny lived in a nice hole--"

"A nice bed," said Sara, "a velly nice bed and not in a vitty bed, but in a velly big bed,
a velly, velly big bed with Aunt Woggles."

"In a nice big bed with Aunt Woggles," I said, "and he was a very good little bunny."

At this Sara rose in the bed and looked at me very severely.

"Did he say his palayers eberly day?" she asked.

"No, not prayers, darling. Bunnies don't say prayers; children say prayers."

"Naughty bunnies!" said Sara with great severity.

Dreading a religious discussion, which Sara loves, I proposed changing the story to "The Three
Bears." She acquiesced with jumps of joy up and down, just where one would not choose to be
jumped upon, and said, "Ve felee belairs."

Here I fared no better: my version of the story was so hopelessly wrong, and I received such
crushing correction at the hands of Sara, that I was glad to relinquish my office of story-teller
and suggested that she should tell a story instead.

This was evidently what she had wanted to do all along, for she began at once. She tells a
story very much as she says her prayers, at the same terrific pace certainly. First of all
she swallowed and took a deep breath, then she began, "Vunce there was a vitty blush--and not
a bad nasty blush--it said its palayers ebery morning an nannie said good girly an then the
blush vent to sleep in a vitty bed with Yaya."

"Go slower, darling," I said. "Aunt Woggles can't quite understand."

"Yan--ven--Yaya--voke up ve vitty--belush said, 'Good-morning,' yan Yaya said, 'Good-morning,'
yan it was a nice bunny yan not a nasty bunny any more."

Here Sara's thoughts were distracted, and the story ended abruptly for want of breath, or possibly
of story. She refused to go on, and when pressed said with great decision, "Dey's all dead."

She then had her share of camel-rides and bears, and by the time Nannie came I began to feel
that I had earned my breakfast. I was one of the first down, and Bindon was evidently waiting
for me, because as I went into the dining-room he took up his position behind a certain chair,
which action on his part plainly indicated that I was to sit there. I wondered why. Could it
be that I had arrived at the age when it is advisable for a woman to sit back to the light
at breakfast? Was this only another instance of Bindon's devotion to us all? That the credit
of the family is paramount in his mind, I know! All this flashed through my mind, but I saw
a moment later that it was not of my complexion that Bindon thought, for on a plate before
the chair behind which he stood, lay a small dark gray wad about the size of a five-shilling
piece. I hesitated, and Bindon said in an undertone, "Miss Betty made it." Not a muscle of
his face moved.

I sat down and gazed at the awful result of my present to Betty. The--what shall I call it?--was
gray, as I said before; it had a crisscross pattern on it, deeply indented, and snugly sunk
in the middle of it was a currant. I sighed. My duty as a professional aunt was clear: had
I not in a moment of weakness said I would eat anything Betty made, provided it was a proper
thing? Had I here a loophole of escape? No, it was certainly, according to Betty's lights,
a most proper thing. But why does dough, in the hands of the cleanest child, become dark gray?

Bindon, having done his duty by Betty, and not being able on this occasion to do it by both
of us, made no further explanation. Like the first step, it is no doubt the first bite that
costs most dearly; and while I was pondering whether to take two bites or swallow it whole,
Mr. Dudley came in and sat down opposite me. He is a young man who thinks that no woman he
doesn't know can be worth knowing. When by force of circumstances he comes to know a fresh
one, he always tells her he feels as if he had known her all her life, and talks of a previous
existence, and so gets over a difficulty. I felt that it was a tribute to Diana that he treated
me so kindly, and I earned his gratitude and commanded his respect by refusing food at his
hands. I said I liked helping myself at breakfast. He insisted, however, on passing me the
toast. This I felt was apart from Diana altogether.

After a few moments the little gray wad attracted his attention, and his eyebrows expressed
a wish to know what it was.

"Betty made it," I said.

"And what is it?"

"I wonder!" I said. "I think it must come under the head of black bread."

"What are you going to do with it?" he asked.

I answered, "Why, eat it, of course; only I can't make up my mind how. What should you say,
two bites or a swallow?"

His interest was now thoroughly aroused; he had evidently never before met an aunt professionally.
He looked at me solemnly and said, "You are going to eat that?"

"I am an aunt, you see," said; "a professional aunt."

"A what?" he asked.

"A professional aunt," I answered. "You are an uncle, I suppose."

"I am constantly getting wires to that effect, but I am hanged if I have ever eaten mud-pies."

"No, that is part of the profession," I said; "you see, I promised Betty."

Mr. Dudley relapsed into silence. I had given him food for reflection.

Here Betty appeared, "not to eat anything," she carefully explained. Hugh came next, followed
a moment later by Sara, who was beside herself with excitement, which was centered in the blue
ribbon in her hair, to which she had that morning been promoted. A red curl had become more
rebellious than its fellows, and it was tied up with a blue ribbon, in the fashion beloved
of young mothers. Diana dislikes any reference made to poodles.

"Yaya's got a ved vimvirn in her har," she announced.

We all expressed the keenest interest and unbounded surprise. One very well-meaning person
put down his knife and fork and said he was too surprised to eat any more breakfast; whereupon
Hugh said, "You needn't be so very funny, because Sara doesn't understand those sort of jokes."

