The difficulties of withdrawing were very great, as the ground was exceptionally rocky, and
the growth of cedars almost impenetrable for wheeled carriages.  Retiring sullenly under a
heavy fire, while the general line was reformed to my right and rear, my division was at length
drawn through the cedars and debouched into an open space near the Murfreesboro' pike, behind
the right of Palmer's division.  Two regiments of Sill's brigade, however, on account of the
conformation of the ground, were obliged to fall back from the point where Woodruff's brigade
of Davis's division had rallied after the disaster of the early morning.  The division came
out of the cedars with unbroken ranks, thinned by only its killed and wounded--but few missing.
When we came into the open ground, McCook directed Roberts's brigade--now commanded by Colonel
Luther P. Bradley--to proceed a short distance to the rear on the Nashville pike, to repel
the enemy's threatening attempt at our communications.  Willingly and cheerfully the brigade
again entered the fight under these new conditions, and although it was supplied with but three
or four cartridges to the man now, it charged gallantly and recaptured two pieces of artillery
which the Union troops had had to abandon at that point.

Shortly after we debouched from the cedars I was directed by Rosecrans to send some aid to
the right of General Palmer's division; and two of Schaefer's regiments, having obtained ammunition,
were pushed up on Palmer's right, accompanied by four of Hescock's guns; but the advance of
the enemy here had already been checked by Palmer, and only a desultory contest ensued.  Rosecrans,
whom I now met in the open ground west of the railroad, behind Palmer, directed that my command
should relieve Wood's division, which was required to fall back and take up the new line that
had been marked out while I was holding on in the cedars.  His usually florid face had lost
its ruddy color, and his anxious eyes told that the disasters of the morning were testing his
powers to the very verge of endurance, but he seemed fully to comprehend what had befallen
us.  His firmly set lips and, the calmness with which his instructions were delivered inspired
confidence in all around him; and expressing approbation of what my division had done, while
deliberately directing it to a new point, he renewed in us all the hope of final victory, though
it must be admitted that at this phase of the battle the chances lay largely with the enemy.

Withdrawing the two regiments and Hescock's battery, that I had posted on the right of Palmer,
I moved as directed by Rosecrans into the position to the east of the railroad, and formed
immediately to the right of Wood, who was now being attacked all along his front, but more
particularly where his right rested near the railroad. Under a storm of shot and shell that
came in torrents my troops took up the new ground, advancing through a clump of open timber
to Wood's assistance.  Forming in line in front of the timber we poured a telling fire into
the enemy's ranks, which were then attacking across some cleared fields; but when he discovered
additional troops confronting him, he gave up the attempt to carry Wood's position.  It was
here that I lost Schaefer, who was killed instantly, making my fourth brigade commander dead
that day.  The enemy in front of Wood having been checked, our whole line east of the railroad
executed undisturbed its retrograde movement to a position about three hundred yards to its
rear.  When I fell back to the edge of the clump of timber, where when first coming on the
ground I had formed to help Wood, I was ordered by Rosecrans to prepare to make a charge should
the enemy again assault us.  In anticipation of this work I massed my troops in close column.
The expected attack never came, however, but the shot and shell of a furious cannonade told
with fatal effect upon men and officers as they lay on their faces hugging the ground.  The
torments of this trying situation were almost unbearable, but it was obvious to all that it
was necessary to have at hand a compact body of troops to repel any assault the enemy might
make pending the reconstruction of the extreme right of our line, and a silent determination
to stay seemed to take hold of each individual soldier; nor was this grim silence interrupted
throughout the cannonade, except in one instance, when one of the regiments broke out in a
lusty cheer as a startled rabbit in search of a new hiding-place safely ran the whole length
of the line on the backs of the men.

While my troops were still lying here, General Rosecrans, with a part of his staff and a few
orderlies, rode out on the rearranged line to supervise its formation and encourage the men,
and in prosecution of these objects moved around the front of my column of attack, within range
of the batteries that were shelling us so viciously.  As he passed to the open ground on my
left, I joined him.  The enemy seeing this mounted party, turned his guns upon it, and his
accurate aim was soon rewarded, for a solid shot carried away the head of Colonel Garesche,
the chief-of-staff, and killed or wounded two or three orderlies.  Garesche's appalling death
stunned us all, and a momentary expression of horror spread over Rosecrans's face; but at such
a time the importance of self-control was vital, and he pursued his course with an appearance
of indifference, which, however, those immediately about him saw was assumed, for undoubtedly
he felt most deeply the death of his friend and trusted staff-officer.

No other attacks were made on us to the east of the railroad for the rest of the afternoon,
and just before dark I was directed to withdraw and take up a position along the west side
of the Nashville pike, on the extreme right of our new line, where Roberts's brigade and the
Seventy-third and Eighty-eighth Illinois had already been placed by McCook.  The day had cost
me much anxiety and sadness, and I was sorely disappointed at the general result, though I
could not be other than pleased at the part taken by my command.  The loss of my brigade commanders--Sill,
Roberts, Schaefer, and Harrington-and a large number of regimental and battery officers, with
so many of their men, struck deep into my heart: My thinned ranks told the woeful tale of the
fierce struggles, indescribable by words, through which my division had passed since 7 o'clock
in the morning; and this, added to our hungry and exhausted condition, was naturally disheartening.
The men had been made veterans, however, by the fortunes and misfortunes of the day, and as
they went into their new places still confident of final success, it was plain to see that
they felt a self-confidence inspired by the part they had already played.

My headquarters were now established on the Nashville pike, about three miles and a half from
Murfreesboro'; my division being aligned to the west of the pike, bowed out and facing almost
west, Cleburn's division of the Confederates confronting it.  Davis's division was posted on
my right, and Walker's brigade of Thomas's corps, which had reported to me, took up a line
that connected my left with Johnson's division.

Late in the evening General Rosecrans, accompanied by General McCook, and several other officers
whose names I am now unable to recall, rode by my headquarters on their way to the rear to
look for a new line of battle--on Overall's creek it was said--that would preserve our communications
with Nashville and offer better facilities for resistance than the one we were now holding.
Considerable time had elapsed when they returned from this exploration and proceeded to their
respective commands, without intimating to me that anything had been determined upon by the
reconnoissance, but a little later it was rumored through the different headquarters that while
the party was looking for a new position it discovered the enemy's troops moving toward our
right and rear, the head of his columns being conducted in the darkness by the aid of torches,
and that no alternative was left us but to hold the lines we then occupied.  The torches had
been seen unquestionably, and possibly created some alarm at first in the minds of the reconnoitring
party, but it was soon ascertained that the lights came from a battalion of the Fourth regular
cavalry that was picketing our flank and happened to be starting its bivouac fires at the moment.
The fires and the supposed movements had no weight, therefore, in deciding the proposition
to take up a line at Overall's creek, but General Rosecrans, fortunately for the army, decided
to remain where he was.  Doubtless reflections during his ride caused him to realize that the
enemy must be quite as much crippled as himself.  If it had been decided to fall back to Overall's
creek, we could have withdrawn without much difficulty very likely, but such a retrograde movement
would have left to the enemy the entire battle-field of Stone River and ultimately compelled
our retreat to Nashville.

In the night of December 3rd several slight demonstrations were made on my front, but from
the darkness neither party felt the effect of the other's fire, and when daylight came again
the skirmishers and lines of battle were in about the same position they had taken up the evening
before.  Soon after daybreak it became evident that the conflict was to be renewed, and a little
later the enemy resumed the offensive by an attack along my left front, especially on Walker's
brigade.  His attempt was ineffectual, however, and so easily repulsed as to demonstrate that
the desperate character of his assaults the day before had nearly exhausted his strength. 
About 3 o'clock in the afternoon he made another feeble charge on my front, but our fire from
the barricades and rifle-pits soon demoralized his advancing lines, which fell back in some
confusion, thus enabling us to pick up about a hundred prisoners.  From this time till the
evening of January 3 Bragg's left remained in our front, and continued to show itself at intervals
by weak demonstrations, which we afterward ascertained were directly intended to cover the
desperate assault he made with Breckenridge on the left of Rosecrans, an assault that really
had in view only a defensive purpose, for unless Bragg dislodged the troops which were now
massing in front of his right he would be obliged to withdraw General Polk's corps behind Stone
River and finally abandon Murfreesboro'.  The sequel proved this to be the case; and the ill-judged
assault led by Breckenridge ending in entire defeat, Bragg retired from Murfreesboro' the night
of January 3.

General Rosecrans occupied Murfreesboro' on the 4th and 5th, having gained a costly victory,
which was not decisive enough in its character to greatly affect the general course of the
war, though it somewhat strengthened and increased our hold on Middle Tennessee. The enemy
in retiring did not fall back very far--only behind Duck River to Shelbyville and Tullahoma--and
but little endeavor was made to follow him.  Indeed, we were not in condition to pursue, even
if it had been the intention at the outset of the campaign.

As soon as possible after the Confederate retreat I went over the battle-field to collect such
of my wounded as had not been carried off to the South and to bury my dead.  In the cedars
and on the ground where I had been so fiercely assaulted when the battle opened, on the morning
of the 31st, evidences of the bloody struggle appeared on every hand in the form of broken
fire-arms, fragments of accoutrements, and splintered trees.  The dead had nearly all been
left unburied, but as there was likelihood of their mutilation by roving swine, the bodies
had mostly been collected in piles at different points and inclosed by rail fences.  The sad
duties of interment and of caring for the wounded were completed by the 5th, and on the 6th
I moved my division three miles, south of Murfreesboro' on the Shelbyville pike, going into
camp on the banks of Stone River.  Here the condition of my command was thoroughly looked into,
and an endeavor made to correct such defects as had been disclosed by the recent battle.

During the engagement there had been little straggling, and my list of missing was small and
legitimate; still, it was known that a very few had shirked their duty, and an example was
necessary.  Among this small number were four officers who, it was charged, had abandoned their
colors and regiments.  When their guilt was clearly established, and as soon as an opportunity
occurred, I caused the whole division to be formed in a hollow square, closed in mass, and
had the four officers marched to the centre, where, telling them that I would not humiliate
any officer or soldier by requiring him to touch their disgraced swords, I compelled them to
deliver theirs up to my colored servant, who also cut from their coats every insignia of rank.
Then, after there had been read to the command an order from army headquarters dismissing the
four from the service, the scene was brought to a close by drumming the cowards out of camp.
It was a mortifying spectacle, but from that day no officer in that division ever abandoned
his colors.

My effective force in the battle of Stone River was 4,154 officers and men.  Of this number
I lost 1,633 killed, wounded, and missing, or nearly 40 per cent.  In the remaining years of
the war, though often engaged in most severe contests, I never experienced in any of my commands
so high a rate of casualties.  The ratio of loss in the whole of Rosecrans's army was also
high, and Bragg's losses were almost equally great.  Rosecrans carried into the action about
42,000 officers and men.  He lost 13,230, or 31 per cent.  Bragg's effective force was 37,800
officers and men; he lost 10,306, or nearly 28 per cent.

Though our victory was dearly bought, yet the importance of gaining the day at any price was
very great, particularly when we consider what might have been the result had not the gallantry
of the army and the manoeuvring during the early disaster saved us from ultimate defeat.  We
had started out from Nashville on an offensive campaign, probably with no intention of going
beyond Murfreesboro', in midwinter, but still with the expectation of delivering a crushing
blow should the enemy accept our challenge to battle.  He met us with a plan of attack almost
the counterpart of our own.  In the execution of his plan he had many advantages, not the least
of which was his intimate knowledge of the ground, and he came near destroying us. Had he done
so, Nashville would probably have fallen; at all events, Kentucky would have been opened again
to his incursions, and the theatre of war very likely transferred once more to the Ohio River.
As the case now stood, however, Nashville was firmly established as a base for future operations,
Kentucky was safe from the possibility of being again overrun, and Bragg, thrown on the defensive,
was compelled to give his thoughts to the protection of the interior of the Confederacy and
the security of Chattanooga, rather than indulge in schemes of conquest north of the Cumberland
River.  While he still held on in Middle Tennessee his grasp was so much loosened that only
slight effort would be necessary to push him back into Georgia, and thus give to the mountain
region of East Tennessee an opportunity to prove its loyalty to the, Union.

The victory quieted the fears of the West and Northwest, destroyed the hopes of the secession
element in Kentucky, renewed the drooping spirits of the East Tennesseans, and demoralized
the disunionists in Middle Tennessee; yet it was a negative victory so far as concerned the
result on the battle-field.  Rosecrans seems to have planned the battle with the idea that
the enemy would continue passive, remain entirely on the defensive, and that it was necessary
only to push forward our left in order to force the evacuation of Murfreesboro'; and notwithstanding
the fact that on the afternoon of December 30 McCook received information that the right of
Johnson's division. resting near the Franklin pike, extended only to about the centre of the
Confederate army, it does not appear that attack from that quarter was at all apprehended by
the Union commanders.

The natural line of retreat of the Confederates was not threatened by the design of Rosecrans;
and Bragg, without risk to his communications, anticipated it by a counter-attack of like character
from his own left, and demolished his adversary's plan the moment we were thrown on the defensive.
Had Bragg followed up with the spirit which characterized its beginning the successful attack
by Hardee on our right wing--and there seems no reason why he should not have done so--the
army of Rosecrans still might have got back to Nashville, but it would have been depleted and
demoralized to such a degree as to unfit it for offensive operations for a long time afterward.
Bragg's intrenchments in front of Stone River were very strong, and there seems no reason why
he should not have used his plain advantage as explained, but instead he allowed us to gain
time, intrench, and recover a confidence that at first was badly shaken.  Finally, to cap the
climax of his errors, he directed Breckenridge to make the assault from his right flank on
January 2, with small chance for anything but disaster, when the real purpose in view could
have been accomplished without the necessity of any offensive manoeuvre whatever.

CHAPTER XIV.

APPOINTED A MAJOR-GENERAL--THE SECRET EXPEDITION UNDER CARD THE SCOUT--HIS CAPTURE BY GUERRILLAS--ESCAPE--A
REVENGE PARTY--WOMEN SOLDIERS--A FIGHT WITH SABRES--TULLAHOMA CAMPAIGN--A FOOLISH ADVENTURE.

On the 6th of January, 1863, my division settled quietly down in its camp south of Murfreesboro'.
Its exhausted condition after the terrible experiences of the preceding week required attention.
It needed recuperation, reinforcement, and reorganization, and I set about these matters without
delay, in anticipation of active operations early in the spring.  No forward movement was made
for nearly six months, however, and throughout this period drills, parades, reconnoissances,
and foraging expeditions filled in the time profitably.  In addition to these exercises the
construction of permanent fortifications for the security of Murfreesboro' was undertaken by
General Rosecrans, and large details from my troops were furnished daily for the work.  Much
attention was also given to creating a more perfect system of guard and picket duty-a matter
that had hitherto been somewhat neglected in the army, as its constant activity had permitted
scant opportunity for the development of such a system.  It was at this time that I received
my appointment as a major-general of Volunteers.  My promotion had been recommended by General
Rosecrans immediately after the battle of Stone River, but for some reason it was delayed until
April, and though a long time elapsed between the promise and the performance, my gratification
was extreme.

