[3] It was only when the manuscript of this work was nearly finished and the first part of
it had gone to the press, that the author received the second part of K. E. von Baer's "Studien
aus dem Gebiete der Naturwissenschaften" (Studies in the Realm of Natural Sciences). It contains
another essay on teleology, "Ueber Zielstrebigkeit in den organischen Körpern insbesondere,"
and a treatise on Darwin's doctrine, "Ueber Darwin's Lehre," which Baer had promised long ago
and which the public had anxiously awaited. It is no little satisfaction to find that I, from
my modest premises, reached results regarding the naturo-philosophical problems and their weight
in the religious realm which so fully harmonize with the views of this first authority in the
realm of the history of development. I shall still have occasion here and there to avail myself
of a study of this latest and most important publication upon the question of Darwinism, and
shall confine myself here to the remark that von Baer, although he rejects the selection theory
and the superficial treatment of the principle of evolution on the part of materialists, is
by no means disinclined to the idea of the origin of species through descent, whether in gradual
development or in leaps; and that in this respect he could no longer be counted among the advocates
of the group above referred to, but among those which we mention farther on, had he not repeatedly
and forcibly confessed, with a modesty worthy of acknowledgment, his total ignorance concerning
the manner in which certain forms of life, especially the higher ones, originated. The origin
of higher species without the supposition of a descent is to him unexplainable, because the
individuals of these species are, in their first development of life, so dependent on the mother.
Furthermore, he points out the fact that in early periods of the earth the organic forming
power which ruled, must have been a higher one than it is at the present time; in like manner
as the first period in the embryonic development of individuals is to-day the most productive.
This higher power of organization, he says, could consist in a higher power of changing organisms
into new species, as well as in a higher power of producing new species through primitive generation;
or it could consist in both. In general, there is no reason to suppose that primitive generations
which took place at the first origination of life on earth, could not have been repeated later
and oftener. The nearer a generation was to these individuals originated through primitive
generation, the greater was undoubtedly its flexibility and changeableness; the farther, the
greater the fixity of type.

[4] After the completion this manuscript, the author found that K. E. von Baer, in his treatise
upon Darwin's doctrine, pays especial attention to the change of generation and also to the
metamorphosis of plants and animals in exactly the same sense and reaches the same conclusion.

[5] Compare Max Müller, "Lectures on the Science of Language," 6th ed., London, 1871, vol.
I, p. 403.

[6] Compare v. Baer, "Studies, etc.," p. 294 ff.

[7] Darwin says, on page 146, Eng.

[8] This word, which is of recent coinage in Germany, has been found so incapable of being
rendered by an exact English equivalent, that it has been thought best to retain it and to
give the author's own explanation of the meaning which he desired it to express. He says, in
a note to the translator: "I was led to this idea [of Auslosung] in a small essay of Robert
von Mayer ("Ueber Auslösung," 1876). Afterwards Mayer personally stated to me that he heartily
approved the emphasis I had given to this idea, and said that he had only thought of the fact
that psychical processes, like the action of the will, losen aus (release) physiological processes,
like the action of the muscles, and that I had carried the idea farther, in saying that psychical
processes are ausgelost (released) by physiological processes, and that this is a very important
step farther on the way of investigation. Mayer himself thought it would be necessary to call
the attention to this, when he further developed the ideas he had given in the before-mentioned
essay; his intention to do so was prevented by his death.

"Auslosung is a word originated by modern mechanical science, and means: (1.) Slight mechanical
operations of detaching and the like, by which another and more important action, whose forces
were heretofore restrained, can be set into activity: e.g., the pressure which sets in motion
a machine, previously at rest, is Auslosung; the pressure on the trigger of a gun is Auslosung;
the friction of a match which is the beginning of a great fire is Auslosung. (2.) This idea
may now be applied to chemical processes: e.g., a glass of sugar-water will remain sweet unless
some foreign element is introduced into it, but the moment it receives a fermenting substance
either by chance, from the air, or with intention, then the sugar water is brought into a process
of chemical decomposition, and from this there results Auslosung; but the introduction of the
fermenting agent into the sugar-water is Auslosung. (3.) Von Mayer applies this idea to psycho-physical
relations of life, and says: when the will acting through the agency of the motor nerves sets
in motion the muscles, this is Auslosung."--[TRANS.]

[9] For the use of readers who do not understand Greek, we may state that the word teleology
is derived from the Greek word telos, Gen. teleos: end, purpose, aim; and means the "doctrine
of design or a conformity to the end in view," or, as K. E. von Baer prefers and wishes to
have introduced into scientific language, "the doctrine of the striving toward an end" (Zielstrebigkeit).
It seems to be quite a superficial treatment of an idea on whose reception or rejection no
less a thing than an entire view of the world with all its most important and deepest questions
depends, when Dr. G. Seidlitz, in an essay on the success of Darwinism ("Ausland," 1874, No.
37), states incidentally that teleology is derived from the Greek [Greek: teleos] perfect.
It is true that the Greek adjective for perfect is also derived from that noun, [Greek: telos],
which has the same root as the German word Ziel, and there is even an Ionic form for that adjective
which is [Greek: teleos], but the Attic form is [Greek: teleios]; and since modern languages,
when a choice is allowed, do not derive their Greek foreign words from the Ionic, but from
the Attic dialect, that word--were it really derived from that adjective and did it express
"doctrine of perfection"--would have to be teleiology, or, in Latinized form, teliology. As
far as we know, the word, since it was introduced into scientific language, has never been
derived from any other root than from [Greek: telos], Gen. [Greek: teleos], end, and has never
been used in any other sense than to express the doctrine of a purpose and end in the world.

[10] Compare "History, Essays, and Orations of the 6th General Conference of the Evangelical
Alliance," New York, Harper Bros., 1874, p. 264-271.

[11] Compare D. F. Strauss, the most celebrated moral philosopher of Monism, in § 74 of his
"The Old Faith and the New."

       *       *       *       *       *

Corrections made to printed original.

p. 43. "the whole course of the zoölogical system" - "zoloogical" in original.

p. 65. "corals, radiata, worms, mollusca, and crustacea" - "radita" in original.

p. 73. "many portions of the skin" - "the the" (across line break) in original.

p. 86. "forsakes us in the inquiry" - "inqury" in original.

p. 112. "even philosophy can not take up the investigation" - "phi-osophy" (across line break)
in original.

p. 147. "the origin of self-consciousness" - "conciousness" in original.

p. 265. "the origin of species through development" - "developement" in original.

p. 297. "any other interpretation than to take them" - "then" in original.

p. 343. "the Titan-like, rebellious Kainites" - "Titian" in original.

Note 3. "The nearer a generation was" - "a a" (across line break) in original.