They were moving the Dragon.  Bump--bump--bump--bump.  He thought he heard Edith cry out, "Oh,
God!" and then silence again.  Presently Edith stood in the doorway, looking at him.  Her eyes
were red-rimmed, and yet there was an air of importance, of solemn triumph about her.

"Your father is--is very ill.  The man downstairs has gone for the doctor, and I am going to
ask Christine to come round.  You must be a good boy, Robert.  You must do as I tell you and
go to bed."

So they meant to leave him alone in the house with that dreadful still thing lying somewhere
upstairs.  Or perhaps it wasn't really still.  It might have strange powers now.  You might
come upon it anywhere.  You couldn't be sure.  It might even be in your bed.  He did not want
to disobey Edith.  Just then he could have clung to her.  But he could not go up those stairs.
He could not pass those open doors, gaping with unspeakable things.  He felt that if he kept
very still, hiding his face, They would not touch him.  There seemed to be a thin--frightfully
thin--partition between him and the world in which they lived, and that by a sudden movement
he might break through.  He had to hold fast to his body.  It was beginning to run away again,
to start into long agonized shudderings.

At last a key turned in the latch.  Invisible people went up the stairs in silence.  But he
knew that Christine was among them.  He knew because of the sense of sweet security and rest
that came over him.  He tumbled on to the hearthrug and fell asleep.

He was cold and stiff when the opening of the library door wakened him. He did not know who
had opened the door.  All he saw was Christine coming down the stairs.  Her face was old and
almost silver grey.  She was not crying like Edith, whose sniffs came assertively and at regular
intervals from somewhere in the hall.  There was a still, withdrawn look about her, as though
she were contemplating something unbreakable that had at last been broken, as though a light
had gone out in her for ever.  So that Robert could not run to her as he had meant to do.

It was Edith speaking.

"You won't leave me, will you, Christine?  Poor Jim!  And then that man--I should die of fright.
Besides, it wouldn't be right--not proper--to-morrow one of my sisters----"

"Very well.  I will spend the night here.  But Robert must go to my people.  They won't mind
now.  I shall be back in half an hour."

She helped him into his reefer coat, which she had brought down with her.  And still he could
not speak to her.  She was a long way off from him.  As they went into the hall he hid his
face against her arm for fear of the things that he might see.  But once they were outside,
and the good night wind rushed against his face, a great intoxicating joy came over him.  He
wanted to dance and shout.  The Dragon was dead.  No one could frighten them again.

"Aren't we ever coming back, Christine?"

"No, dear, I don't think so."

He looked back at the grim, high house.  For a moment a sorrow as deep as joy rushed over him.
It was as though he knew that something besides the Dragon had died up there in that dimly
lit room--as though he were saying good-bye to something he would never find, though he hunted
the world over.

He had been a little boy.  He would never be quite a little boy again.

Or perhaps the Dragon wasn't dead at all--perhaps Dragons never died, but lived on and on,
hiding in secret places, waiting to pounce out on you and drag you back.

He seized Christine's hand.

"Let's run," he whispered.  "Let's run fast."

II

1

He discovered that there were people in the world who could make scenes without noise.  They
were like the crocodiles he had met on his visit to the Zoo, lying malignantly inert in their
oily water.  But one twitch of the tail, one blink of a lightless eye, was more terrifying
than the roar of a lion.

No one made a noise in Christine's home.  The two sisters looked at Robert as though he were
a small but disagreeable smell that they tried politely to ignore.  They asked him if he wanted
a second helping in voices of glacial courtesy.  They said things to each other and at Christine
which were quiet and deadly as the rustle of a snake in the grass.  Robert had never fled from
his father as he fled from their restrained disgust.  He had never been more aware of storm
than in the smother of the heavily carpeted, decorously silent rooms.  It broke, three days
later, not with thunder and lightning, but with the brief malicious rattle of a machine-gun.

"You ought not to have brought him here.  You have no pride.  But, then, you never had.  At
least some consideration for our feelings might have been expected.  We have suffered enough.
If you knew what people said----  Mrs. Stonehouse has been talking.  She offered to take the
child.  As his natural guardian she had the right.  An unpardonable, undignified interference----"

Christine hardly answered.  Her fragile face wore the look of quiet obstinacy which had braved
James Stonehouse and the worst disasters. Robert had seen it too often not to understand. 
But now his father was dead, and instead; inexplicably, he had become the source of trouble.
He disgraced Christine.  Her people hated her because she was good to him.  He felt the shame
of it all over him like a horrible kind of uncleanliness, and beneath the shame a burning sense
of wrong.  He hid in dark places.  He refused to answer even when Christine called him. He
skulked miserably past Christine's sisters when he met them in the passage.  He scowled at
them, his head down, like a hobbled, angry little bull.  And Christine's sisters drew in their
nostrils in a last genteel effort at self-control.

Christine packed his trunk with ragged odds and ends of clothing, and they made a long journey
to No. 14, Acacia Grove, where Christine had taken two furnished rooms and a scullery, which
served also as kitchen and bath-room.  Acacia Grove was the deformed extremity of a misbegotten
suburb.  There were five acacia trees planted on either side of the unfinished roadway, but
they had been blighted in their youth, and their branches were spinsterish and threadbare.
Behind the houses were a few dingy fields, and then a biscuit factory, an obscene, congested-looking
building with belching chimneys.

Every morning at nine o'clock Robert walked with Christine to the corner of the road, and a
jolly, red-faced 'bus, rollicking through the neighbourhood like a slightly intoxicated reveller
who has landed by mistake in a gathering of Decayed Gentlefolk, carried her off citywards,
and at dusk returned her again, grey and worn, with wisps of tired brown hair hanging about
her face and bundles of solemn letters and folded parchment documents bulging from her dispatch-case.
Then she and Robert shopped together at the Stores, and afterwards she cooked over a gas-jet
in the scullery, and they had supper together, almost in the dark, but very peacefully.

It was too peaceful.  One couldn't believe in it.  When supper was over Robert washed up and
Christine uncovered the decrepit, second-hand typewriter which she had bought, and began to
copy from the letters, bending lower and lower over the crabbed writing and sighing deeply
and impatiently as her fingers blundered at the keys.  On odd nights, when there was no copying
to be done, she tried to teach Robert his letters and words of one syllable, but they were
both too tired, and he yawned and kicked the table and was cross and stupid with sleepiness.
At nine o'clock he washed himself cautiously and crept into the little bed beside her big one
and lay curled up, listening to the reassuring click-click of the typewriter, until suddenly
it was broad daylight again, and there was Christine getting breakfast.

In the day-time Robert played ball in the quiet street or sat with his elbows on the window-sill
and watched the people go in and out of the houses opposite.  The people were grey and furtive-looking,
as though they were afraid of attracting the notice of some dangerous monster and had tried
to take on the colour of their surroundings in self-protection.  They seemed to ask nothing
more for themselves than that they should be forgotten.  Robert knew how they felt.  He felt
like that himself.  He was never sure that he was really safe.  He dared not ask questions
lest he should find out that his father wasn't dead after all, or that they were on the brink
of some new convulsion. He did not even ask where Christine went in the day-time, or what had
become of Edith, or where their money came from.  He clung desperately to an ignorance which
allowed him to believe that he and Christine would always live like this, quietly and happily.
When the landlady's shadow came heavy-footed up the stairs, he hid himself and stuffed his
fingers in his ears lest he should hear her threaten them with instant expulsion.  (It was
incredible that she and Christine should be talking amicably about the weather.)  Or when they
went to the butcher's, he hung behind in dread anticipation of the red-faced man's insolent
"And what about that there little account of ours, Ma'am?"  But the red-faced man smiled ingratiatingly
and patted him on the back and called him a fine young fellow.  Christine counted out her money
at the desk.  It made Robert dizzy with joy and pride to see her pay her bill, and tears came
into his throat and nearly choked him.  On the way home he behaved abominably, chased cats
or threw stones with a reckless disregard for their neighbours' windows, and Christine, looking
into his flushed, excited face, had a movement that was like the shadow of his own secret fear.

"Robert, Robert, don't be so wild.  You might hurt yourself--or someone else.  It frightens me."

And then at once he walked quietly beside her, chilled and dispirited. At any moment the new-found
commonplaces might drop from him, and everyone would find out--the neighbours who nodded kindly
and the tradespeople who bowed them out of their shops--just as Francey and the Banditti had
found out--and turn away from him, ashamed and sorry.

He did not think of Francey very often.  For when he did it was almost always in those last
moments together that he remembered her--the Francey who was too strong for him, the Francey
who knew that he was a nasty little boy who couldn't even beat a girl--who told lies--the Francey
who despised him.  And then it was as though his body had been bruised afresh from head to
foot.  But he still had her handkerchief. He even kept it hidden from Christine lest she should
insist on washing it.  For by now it was incredibly dirty.

In the day-time he never thought of his father at all.  But in his sleep one nightmare returned
repeatedly.  It never varied; it was definite and horrible.  In it his father, grown to demonic
proportions, towered over Christine's huddled body, his eyes terrible, his fists clenched and
raised to strike.  Then in that moment, at the very height of his awful fear and helpless hatred,
the wonderful truth burst upon Robert, and he danced gleefully, full of cruel triumph, about
the black, suddenly impotent figure, shouting:

"You can't--you're dead--you're dead--you can't----"

And then he would wake up with a hideous start, sweating, his eyes hot with unshed tears, and
Christine's hand would come to him out of the darkness and clasp his in reassuring firmness.

There was another dream.  Or, rather, it was half a dream and half one of these stories that
he told himself just before he fell asleep.  It came to him at dusk when he stood at the gate
and waited for Christine to come home.  In the long day of silent games he had lost touch,
little by little, with reality.  Hunger had made him faint and drowsy. Things changed, became
unfamiliar, fantastic.  Between the stunted trees he could see the afterglow of the sunset
like the reflection of a blazing city.  The road then was full of silence and shadow.  The
drab outlines grew faint and the mean houses were merged into the vaster shapes of night. 
Robert waited, motionless, breathless.  He was sure that something was coming to him down the
path of fading light.  He did not know what it was.  Once, indeed, it had been Francey, with
her queer dancing step, her hair flying about her head like a flock of little red-brown birds.
She had hovered before him, on tiptoe, as though the next gust of wind would blow her on her
way down the street, and looked at him.  They had not spoken, but he had seen in her eyes how
sorry she was that she had not understood.  And a warm content had flowed over him.  All the
sore, aching places were healed and comforted.

But that had been only once.  And then he wasn't sure that he hadn't made it up.  At all other
times the thing was outside himself too strange to have been imagined.  It shook him from head
to foot with dread and longing.  He wanted to run to meet it, to plunge into it, reckless and
shouting, as into a warm, dancing, summer sea.  And yet it menaced him.  It was of fire and
colour, of the rumble and thud of armies, of laughter and singing and distant broken music.
It was all just round the comer.  If he hurried he would see it, lose himself in it, march
to the tune he could never quite catch.  But he was afraid, and whilst he tried to make up
his mind the light faded.  The sounds died.  After all, it was only Christine, trudging wearily
through the dusk.

2

The six forms were marshalled in squares down the centre of the drill-hall, Form I, with Robert
Stonehouse at the bottom, holding the place of dishonour under the shadow of the Headmaster's
rostrum. Robert did not know that he was at the bottom of Form I, or that such a thing as Form
I existed.  He did not know that he was older than the eldest of his class-mates, but he was
aware of being unusually and uncomfortably large.  Under the curious stare that had greeted
him on his first appearance and which now pressed on him from the rear and sides, he felt himself
shoot up, inch by inch, into a horrible conspicuousness, whilst his feet grew flat and leaden,
and his hands were too swollen to squeeze into his trousers pockets.

". . . we have left undone those things which we ought to have done and we have done those
things which we ought not to have done . . ."

He wondered what they were saying.  It sounded rather like one of those tongue-twisters which
his father had taught him in a playful moment--"round the rugged rock the ragged robber ran"--but
it was evidently no joking matter.  And it was something which everyone knew except himself.
The urchin on his left piped it out in an assured, self-satisfied treble.   The clergyman kneeling
behind the raised desk came in with a bang at the beginning of each sentence, and then subsided
into an indistinguishable murmur.  Evidently he knew what he was saying so well that he did
not need even to think about it, for his eyes wandered over his folded hands as though in methodical
search for somebody.  They reached Form I, and Robert, who saw them coming, broke instinctively
into a panic-stricken gabble.  Of all the poems which Christine had read aloud to him, Casablanca
was the only one he could remember, and he had got as far as "whence all but he had fled" before
he saw that it was of no good.  The subterfuge had been recognized. The clergyman had stopped
praying and was gazing at him earnestly. Robert gazed back, fascinated and open-mouthed.

". . . and there is no health in us . . ."

But the strain of that encounter was too much for him.  He tried to escape, first to the ceiling
and finally to his boots.  The stare pursued him, pointed at him.  In a moment the whole school
would be on his track.  His eyes, rolling desperately to their corners, encountered a little
dark man who had led in Form I and now stood sideways on, so as to keep his charge under constant
survey.  Even in that moment of acute despair he arrested Robert's attention.  There was something
odd about him--something distressful and indignant.  Whilst he prayed he made jerky, irritable
movements which fluttered out the wings of his gown, so that with his sleek black hair and
pointed face he looked like a large angry blackbird, trapped and tied by the foot.

"But Thou, O Lord, have mercy upon us . . ."

And then, suddenly, an amazing conviction broke upon Robert.  The little man wasn't praying
at all.  His lips moved, but the movement was all wrong.  He was repeating two words, over
and over again, at great speed and with a suppressed violence.  They looked familiar--painfully,
elusively familiar.  Robert felt that in another moment he would recognize them:

". . . spare Thou them that are penitent . . ."

Now Robert knew for certain.  It was his father's favourite answer to all expostulations. 
Of course that was it.  "Damned rot--damned rot--damned rot."  The little man was swearing
passionately to himself. It was incredible, but there was no mistake possible.  And in the
full blast of the discovery his dark eyes, hunted and angry-looking behind their round glasses,
met Robert's, widened, passed on, and came back again.  It was an extraordinary moment.  Robert
could not have looked away to save his life.  He knew that he had betrayed himself.  The little
man knew that he knew.  He grew very red, coughed, and blew his nose violently, his eyes meantime
returning repeatedly to Robert's flushed and frightened face with an expression utterly unfathomable.
It was almost as though he were trying to signal----

"Amen!" declared the whole school with infinite relief and satisfaction.

The clergyman sighed deeply and raised himself painfully from his knees.

"Hymn number 503."

A boy came out from the class next to Robert's and walked to the piano, and Robert forgot everything
else, even his own imminent disgrace.  He had never seen such red hair before--deep red with
a touch of purple, like the leaves of a beech tree in autumn--or such a freckled face. The
freckles lay thick on the small unimportant nose and clashed painfully against the roots of
the amazing hair.  They crowded out the flaxen eyebrows altogether.  And yet he was pretty
in a wistful, whimsical sort of way.  He made Robert want to laugh.  Someone close to Robert
did titter, and muttered, "Go it, Carrots!" and Robert saw that the boy had heard and was horribly
frightened.  He winced and faltered, and Robert poked out viciously with his elbow.

"Shut up!" he whispered,

His victim was too astonished even to retaliate.

The red-haired boy had reached the piano.  And at once a change came over him.  He wasn't frightened
any more.  He played the first verse over without a stumble, calmly, confidently, as though
he knew that now no one had the right to laugh.  The light from an upper window made a halo
of his blazing head and lit up his small round face, faintly and absurdly grave, but with something
elfish and eager lurking behind the gravity.  Robert stared at him as an Ancient Briton might
have stared at the first lordly Roman who crossed his ken.  He felt uncouth and cumbersome
and stupid.  And yet he could have knocked the red-headed boy down easily with one hand.

The clergyman led the singing.  The urchin on Robert's right had produced a hymn-book from
his pocket and opened it and found his place with the same air of smug efficiency.  Robert
had no book.  He longed for one.  He knew that the clergyman was watching him again.  His companion
nudged him, and by a stab of a stumpy, inky forefinger indicated the verse which he himself
was singing in an aggressive treble.  But Robert only stared helplessly.  At another time he
might have recognized "God--love--dove--" and other words of one syllable, and he liked the
tune.  But now he could see nothing but the clergyman and think of nothing but the little dark
man.  He wondered madly what the latter was singing now and whether he had managed to fit in
"damned rot--damned rot" to the music.  But he did not dare to look.

A second prod roused him with a ghastly self-betraying start.

"You gotter sing," the small boy whispered fiercely; "gotter sing, idjit."

"Wh-a-a-t?"

Robert made a loud, unexpected noise in his throat.  His companion choked, spluttered and buried
his impertinent face in a grubby handkerchief.  The dark man left his post hastily and stationed
himself immediately at Robert's side in anticipation of a further outbreak. Someone in the
rear giggled hysterically.  Robert dropped his head and riveted his swimming eyes on the clergyman's
boots.  He made no further attempt to save himself.  He was caught by his mysterious, relentless
destiny.  He had been found out.

3

Mr. Morton, the headmaster, believed in Hygiene and the Educational Value of Beauty.  The classroom
smelt vividly of carbolic.  There was a large lithograph of "Love and Life" on the pure white
wall and a pot of flowers on the high window-sill.  Maps, blackboards and all other paraphernalia
of learning were kept in merciful concealment.

Robert took possession of the desk nearest him and was at once ejected. Its rightful owner
scowled darkly at him.  At the next desk he tried to anchor himself, and there was a scuffle
and a smothered exchange of blows, from which he escaped with a scraped shin and a strange,
unfamiliar sense of being afraid.  There was no fight in him.  He didn't want to fight.  He
wanted to belong--to be one of the herd--and he knew dimly that he would first have to learn
its laws and submit to its tortures.  He tried to grin back when the titter, which seemed endemic,
broke out afresh as he stumbled on his ignominious pilgrimage, but the unasked-for partition
in their amusement seemed to exasperate them.  They whispered things to one another.  They
commented on his clothes.  He realized suddenly how poorly dressed he was.  There was a patch
on the knee of his trousers and a mended tear on his shiny jacket.  His finger-nails weren't
very clean.  Christine had gone off too early to be sure that he had done them, and he had
never thought much of that sort of thing.  Now he was paralysed with shame.  He could feel
the tears strangling him.

Fortunately the desk in the far corner belonged to nobody.  It was old and battered and covered
with the undecipherable carvings of his predecessors, but at once he loved it.  It was his.
Its retired position seemed to offer him protection.  He hid behind it, drawing a long, shuddering
sigh of thankfulness.

The little dark man stood on the raised platform and surveyed them all. His expression was
nearly a grimace; as though he had just swallowed a disagreeable medicine.  He pursed his lips
and held tight to the lapels of his coat, his piercing yet distressful eyes blinking rapidly
behind their glasses with a kind of nervous malice.

"Well, my delightful and learned young friends----"

The class wilted in anticipation.  But before he spoke again the door opened and they rose
thankfully with a shuffle of feet and surreptitious clatter of desks.  The clergyman waved
to them.  If the little dark man was like a blackbird, captive and resentful, the newcomer
was like a meagre and somewhat fluttered hen.  His hands and wrists were long and yellow and
sinewy.  He wore no cuffs, but one could see the beginnings of his Jaeger undervest under the
black sleeve.   He rubbed his chin or smoothed the back of his small head almost ceaselessly.

"You can sit down, boys.  One moment, Mr. Ricardo, one moment only----"

He spoke in an undertone.  Robert knew it was about him.  They both looked in his direction.
The little man jerked his head.

"Robert Stonehouse."

He sat motionless, trying to hide from them.  But it was of no good. The clergyman made an
elevating gesture, and he rose automatically as though he were tied to that gentleman's hand
by an invisible string. The desk was much too small for him and he had to wiggle to get free
from it.  The lid banged.   Instantly every boy had turned in his seat to gaze at him, and
he saw that this was the worst place that could have fallen to his lot.  In his corner he was
trapped, a sea of mocking, curious faces between him and his tormentors.

The clergyman smiled palely at him.

"I understand that you are a new boy, Stonehouse, and I don't wish to be too severe with you.
At the same time we must begin as we are to go on.  And you were not behaving very well at
prayers this morning, were you?"

Robert moved his lips soundlessly.  But no answer was expected of him. The question was rhetorical.
"You weren't," the enemy said, "attending.  You were trying to make your companions laugh----"
This, at least, was unbearably unjust.

"I wasn't," Robert interrupted loudly.

Someone moved to compassion hissed, "Say 'sir'--say sir,'" but he was beyond help.  From that
moment on he was beyond fear.  He dug himself in, dogged and defiant.

"Come now, Stonehouse, I saw you myself.  You were only pretending to join in, now weren't
you?  How was it?  Didn't you know the prayer?"

"No."

"Don't be so abrupt, my boy.  Say 'sir' when you answer me.  How is it that you don't know
it?  You go to church, don't you?"

"No."

"Say 'sir.'"

"Sir."

"Well, chapel, then.  You go to chapel, no doubt?"

Robert stared blankly.

"You don't?  But surely your mother takes you----"

"I haven't got a mother."  His voice sounded in his own ears like a shout.  He scowled down
at the faces nearest him.  He was ready to fight them now.  If they were going to say anything
about his mother, good or bad, he would fly at them, just as he had flown at his old aggressors
in the Terrace, regardless of size and numbers.

"Your father, then?"

"I haven't got a father."

His questioner smiled faintly, not without asperity.

"Come, come, you are not yet a gentleman in independent circumstances. Who takes care of you?"

"Christine."

"And who, pray, is Christine?"

Who was Christine?  It was as though suddenly the corner of a curtain had been raised for a
moment, letting him look through into a strange new country.

"I don't know."

The clergyman waved his hand, damping down the titters that spluttered up nervously, threatening
to explode outright.  He himself had an air of slight dishevelment, as though his ideas had
been blown about by a rude wind.

"I remember--Mr. Morton spoke to me--your guardian, of course.  You should answer properly.
But still, surely you have been taught--some religious instruction.  You say your prayers,
don't you?"

"No."  He added after a moment of sudden, vivid recollection: "Not now."

It was nothing short of a debacle.  He had pulled out the keystone of an invisible edifice
which had come tumbling about their ears, leaving him in safety.  Without knowing how or why,
he knew he had got the better of them all.  The grins died out of the upturned faces.  They
looked at him with amazement, with horror, yes--with respect.

"But you have been taught your catechism--to--to believe in God?"

"No."

"But the hymn--at least you could have sung the hymn, my poor boy.  You can read, can't you?"

"No."

The awe passed before a storm of unchecked laughter.  For one spectacular moment he had held
them all helpless, every one of them, by the sheer audacity of his admissions.  Now with one
word he had fallen--an ignominious, comic outcast.  The clergyman turned away, shaken but satisfied.

"You have a great deal to learn.  I doubt if Mr. Morton quite realized----  A heavy task in
front of you, too, Mr. Ricardo.  One word, please----"

They spoke in undertones.  Robert slid back into his seat.  He could feel exultant glances
sting and pierce him on every side.  And yet when the door closed he had to look up.  He was
driven by a relentless curiosity to meet the worst.  Mr. Ricardo had resumed his place.  He
did not so much as glance at Robert.  He clung on to the lapels of his coat and blinked up
at the window as though nothing had happened.  But there was something impish twitching at
the corners of his nervous mouth.

"My delightful young friends," he said, "you will be kind enough to leave Stonehouse in peace
both now and hereafter.  I know your amiable propensities, and my own conviction is that he
is probably worth the pack of you.  Get out your history books----"

So he was a friend.  A powerful friend.  But not powerful enough.  No one looked at Robert
again.  And yet he knew, with all the certainty of inherited instinct, that they were waiting
for him.

4

He went out into the school-yard like an early Christian into the arena.  He knew exactly what
to expect.  It was just the Terrace over again.  He would have to fight them all until they
learnt to leave him alone.  Somehow he knew for certain that to be left alone was the best
he could expect.  They would never really forgive him for being different from themselves.
It was very mysterious.  It couldn't be his father or the unpaid bills any more.  It seemed
that if you were born different you remained different, however hard you tried.  He had wanted
so much to go to school, to run with a band again, to play games with them and have them call
out, "Hallo, Stonehouse!" as he heard other boys call to each other across the street.  He
had meant to be exactly like them at all costs.  It had seemed so easy, since his father was
dead and Christine paid the butcher.  But at once he had been found out, a marked man.  He
hadn't got a father and mother like ordinary people, he didn't go to church, he didn't say
his prayers, he couldn't read, and he didn't know who God was--or even Christine----

There was a moment of suspense before the attack opened.  Like an old, experienced general
he made his way with apparent indifference towards the wall.  But he was not quite quick enough.
Someone prodded him sharply in the back.  Someone hissed in mocking imitation:

"I don't know--I don't know!"

He was too cunning to retaliate.  He waited till he had reached his chosen ground, then he
turned with his fists clenched.  The storm had already gathered.  It was only a little school,
and the story of the new boy's "break" with old Jaegers had reached even the big louts who
lingered on in Form VI.  They made a rough half-circle round their intended victim, only partially
malevolent in their intentions.  The fact that he had bearded a contemptible old beast like
Jaegers was rather in his favour than otherwise, but his assertion that he did not say his
prayers and knew nothing about God smacked of superiority.  He had to be taken down.  And,
anyhow, a new boy was an object of curiosity and his preliminary persecution a time-honoured
custom.  A fight was not in their calculations--the very idea of a new boy venturing to fight
beyond their imaginations.  And Robert did not want to fight.  He felt oddly weary and disinclined.
But to him there was no other outcome possible.  It was his only tradition.  It blinded him
to what was kindly or only mischievous in the faces round him.  He had a momentary glimpse
of the red-headed boy who stood just outside the circle, munching an apple and staring at him
with astonished blue eyes, and then his attention fixed itself on his enemy-in-chief.  There
was no mistaking him.  He was a big, lumpy fellow, fifteen years of age, with an untidy mouth,
the spots of a premature adolescence and an air of heavy self-importance.  When he spoke, the
rest fell into awed attention.

"Hallo, new kid, what's your name?"

"Robert Stonehouse."

"Don't be so abrupt, my boy,"--a delighted titter from the small fry--"say 'sir' when you answer
me."

"I shan't."

The little colourless eyes widened in sheer incredulity.  For a moment the role of humorist
was forgotten.

"Look here--no cheek, or I'll smack your head."

"He hasn't been properly brought up," one of the spotty youth's companions remarked, not ill-naturedly.
"Can't expect him to have manners.  He never had a father or a mother, poor darling----"

"Then where did he come from?"

"God made him."

"He told old Jaegers he'd never even heard of God."

"Dear, dear, what a naughty boy.  He doesn't even say his prayers."

"But he lives with a lady called Christine----"

"How nice for him.  Is she a pretty lady, Stonehouse?"  Up till now nothing had stirred in
him.  He hadn't cared.  He had indeed felt something of the superiority which they suspected
in him.  If that was all they could do----  Now, suddenly, the blood rushed to the roots of
his fair hair.

"Shut up.  You leave Christine alone."

The big boy was too delighted to be angry.

"Hoity-toity.  She must be a high-stepper.  No trespassers allowed--eh, what? young cockalorum.
Come on, what's she like?  Who is she?

"He doesn't know."

"She isn't his mother."

"He says she isn't."

"P'r'aps he doesn't know that either.  P'r'aps that's what she says----"

The full extent of the innuendo, like the majority of the audience, he did not understand,
but he saw the wink which passed between the two elder boys.  Ever since that day when he had
gathered flowers for his mother in Kensal Green Cemetery he had known of dark things, just
beyond his understanding.  He had wandered in the midst of them too long not to be aware of
them on the instant.  And it was against Christine--who had suffered from them so terribly--they
dared----  A great sigh tore itself free from him.  He put his head down.  He flew at the spotty
youth like a stone from a catapult, and they went down together in a cloud of dust.

After that, as in most of his uneven, desperate encounters, he hardly knew what happened. 
He felt nothing.  In reality it was an absurd spectacle.  The spotty youth, bounding up from
his momentary discomfiture, caught Robert by the collar and smacked him shamefully, severely,
as the outrage merited.  And when justice had been satisfied, he released the culprit, and
Robert, without pause, returned, fighting with fists and feet and teeth, as he had learnt to
do from dire necessity.  It was unprecedented.  The spotty youth gasped.  His companions offered
intervention.

"I'll hold the beggar."

But honour was at stake.  The small fry, startled out of caution, were tittering in hysterical
excitement.

"Th-thanks--you keep out of it--I'll manage him."'

The second beating was more drastic.  The third was ineffectual.  The spotty youth, besides
being exhausted, was demoralized with sheer bewilderment.  He was not clever, and when events
ran out of their ruts he lost his head.  He had made the same discovery that the Terrace boys
had made long since, namely that short of killing Robert Stonehouse there was no way of beating
him, and he drew back, panting, dishevelled, his manly collar limp and his eyes wild.

"There--that'll teach you----"

Robert laughed.  He put his tongue out.  He knew it was vulgar but it was the only retaliation
he had breath for.  His clothes were dusty and torn, his nose bloody.  He was a frightful object.
But he knew that he had won.

The spotty youth wiped his hands on his handkerchief with exaggerated disgust.

"Dirty little beast.  I wouldn't touch him again--not with the end of a barge pole."

He never did.  Nobody did.  Though he did not know it, it was Robert's last fight.  But he
had won immunity at a high cost.  The small fry skirted him as they went out through the school
gates.  It was more than fear.  They distrusted him.  He was not one of them.  He did not keep
their laws.  His wickedness was not their wickedness, his courage not their courage.  He ought
not to have fought a boy in the sixth form.  He ought to have taken his beating quietly.  Even
if he had "blubbed" they might afterwards have taken him to their bosoms in understanding and
inarticulate sympathy.  As it was, he was a devil--a foreign devil, outside the caste for ever.

Only the small red-haired boy, waiting cautiously till everyone else was out of sight, came
after him as he trailed forlornly down the street.  He was still chewing meditatively at the
core of his apple, and his eyes, vividly blue amidst the freckles, considered Robert out of
their corners with solemn astonishment.

"I say, Stonehouse, you can fight."

Robert nodded.  He was still breathless.

"I--I'm used to it."

"I'm glad you kicked that beast Saunders.  You hurt him, too.  I saw him make a face.  I wish
I could fight like that.  But I'm no good at it.  I'm not 'fraid--not really--but I just hate
it.  You like it, don't you?"

Robert swaggered a little.

"Rather."

There was a moment's silence,

"I say--if you like it--would you mind licking Dickson Minor for me? He's always ragging me--you
see, I've a rotten time--because of my hair, and about playing the piano.  Dickson's the worst.
I'd be awfully glad, if you wouldn't mind, of course."

Robert surreptitiously wiped the blood from his nose on to his sleeve. As usual he had no handkerchief.
A warm, delicious solace flowed over his battered spirit.  His heart swelled till it hurt him.
It opened wide to the little red-haired boy.  If only Francey could see him now--the defender
of the oppressed.  But he did not dare to think of that.  After all, he might cry.

He nodded negligently.

"All right.  I don't mind."

"P'r'aps, when he knows you're standing up for me, he'll leave me alone."

"He'd better."

"My name's Rufus--Rufus Cosgrave.  You see, I was born like this, and my father thought it
would be a good joke.  I call it beastly."

"Mine's Robert."

The red-haired boy meditated a little longer.  He rubbed his arm against Robert's softly like
a young pony.

"I say, let's be friends--shall we?"

Robert gulped and turned his head away.

"All right.  I don't mind."

They parted shyly at the corner of Cosgrave's road--a neat double file of vastly superior villas,
as Robert realized with a faint sinking of the heart; but Robert did not go home.  He made
his way out to the dingy fields behind the biscuit factory, and watched the local rag and bobtail
play football, lying hidden in the long grass under the wall so that they should not see him
and fall upon him.  Even when it grew dusk and he knew that Christine must be almost home,
he still wandered about the streets.  He was hungry and footsore, his head and body ached,
but he put off the moment when he would have to face her to the very last. He loved her, and
he was not really afraid, though he knew that the sight of his torn, blood-stained clothes
would rouse her to a queer unreasonable despair; but he had talked so much, so proudly and
so confidently of going to school.  And now, how should he tell the tale of his disgrace, how
make clear to her the misery which the unfathomable gulf between himself and his companions
caused in him, or that because a red-haired, freckled small boy had asked him to fight Dickson
Minor he had lain in the grass with his face hidden in his arms and wept tears of sacred happiness?
There were things you could never tell, least of all to people whom you loved.  They were locked
up in you, and the key had been lost long since.

The street lamps came to life one by one.  He strolled down Acacia Grove, whistling and swinging
his legs with an exaggerated carelessness.  He could see their light in the upper window of
No. 14. He was sure that Christine would watch for him, and when the hall door opened suddenly,
he stopped short, shrinking from their encounter.  But it was a man who came out of the gate
towards him.  For one moment an awful, reasonless terror made him half turn to run, to run
headlong, never to come back; the next, he recognized the slight, jerky limp which made his
form master so comically bird-like, and stood still, knowing that now Christine had heard everything,
the very worst. Probably Mr. Ricardo had come to tell her that she must take him away, that
he was too bad and too stupid to be with other boys, and a lump gathered in his throat because
he would never see Rufus Cosgrave again: never fight for him.

Mr. Ricardo halted, peering through the dusk.

"That you, Stonehouse?"

"Yes"--he added painfully, because the little man had been kind to him--"sir."

"Your--Miss Forsyth is getting anxious about you.  Why are you so late?"

Robert muttered "Football," knowing it was a lie, and that somehow or other his companion knew
it too.  He heard Mr. Ricardo sigh deeply and wearily.

"Well, I'm very late myself.  I don't know this neighbourhood.  Is there a station or a 'bus
near here?"

"There's a 'bus." Robert pointed eagerly.  "I'll show you if you like."

"Thanks--if it doesn't take you too long."

They walked side by side in silence, Mr. Ricardo's stick tapping smartly on the pavement, he
himself apparently deep in thought.  It seemed to Robert that he had escaped, until suddenly
a thin hand took him by the shoulder and shook him with a friendly impatience.

"Football.  Nonsense.  A boy like you doesn't play football.  He hasn't had the chance.  Besides,
it's not his line.  He plays a lone game. No.  You've been moping round--crying possibly. 
Well, I do that myself sometimes.  It's a crying business, unless you've got nerves and guts.
But you've got that all right.  I saw you fight that stupid bully Saunders from my window,
and you beat him, too.  I was fighting with you, though you didn't know it.  It was I who kicked
him that time you caught him on the shin."

Robert would have laughed had he been less miserable, and had he not caught beneath Mr. Ricardo's
brief amusement a real and angry satisfaction.  In the dark, too, he had an uneasy feeling
that after all he was going to be found out.

"And then after you'd stood up to and beaten a fellow twice your size you went away by yourself
and howled.  Shall I tell you why?  You'll be astonished.  Probably you won't understand in
the least.  You cried because you're a young idiot.  You find yourself in a herd of half-baked
living creatures, and you see that they are wearing chains round their ankles and rings through
their noses so that they can't move or breathe properly, and you think to yourself that that's
the proper thing, and you come crying home for someone to tie you up like the rest.  It's natural.
It's the race instinct and has had its uses. But it's dangerous.  It kills most of us.  We
start out with brains to use and eyes to see with and hands to make with and we end up by thinking
nothing and seeing nothing and making nothing that hasn't been thought and seen and made for
the last two thousand years.  Most of us, even when we know what is happening to us, are cowed
and blackmailed into surrender.  We have to compromise--there are circumstances--always circumstances--unless
we are very strong--we give in--beaten out of shape----"

His sentences, that had become painful and disjointed, broke off, and there was another silence.
Robert could say nothing.  He was dazed with the many words, half of which, it was true, he
had not understood at all.  And yet they excited him.  They seemed to pierce through and touch
some sleeping thing in himself which stirred and answered: "Yes, yes, that's true--that's true."

The pressure on his shoulders increased a little.

"But you're not afraid of anything, are you, Stonehouse?"

"No--no, sir.  I don't think so--not really----"

"I don't think you are, either.  I liked the way you stood up to that poor faggot of hereditary
superstitions and prejudices who was trying to frighten you into being as big a humbug as himself.
He'll never get over it.  I daresay he'll make things very unpleasant for you in his charming
Christian way.  How old are you, Stonehouse?"

"Ten--nearly, sir."

"You're big and precocious for your age.  You'll get the better of him. But if you'd been brought
up with other children you'd have whined and cringed--'Yes, sir,' 'No, sir'--and been a beastly
canting hypocrite all your life.  You're wonderfully lucky if you only knew it, Stonehouse.
You're nearly ten, and you can't read and you don't say your prayers and your catechism and
you know nothing about God Almighty.  You've a sporting chance of becoming a man----"

Robert stumbled over his own feet.  A deeper, almost overpowering, tiredness had come over
him.  And yet he was fascinated.  He had to try to understand.

"Isn't there--I mean--isn't there anyone like God?"

Mr. Ricardo stopped short.  He made a strange, wild gesture.  Standing there in the half-darkness
he was more than ever like some poor hobbled bird trying desperately, furiously to beat its
way back to freedom.

"Superstition--superstition, Stonehouse--the most crushing, damnable chain of all, the symbol
of cowardice, of greed and vanity, the enemy of truth and knowledge, the hot-bed on which we
breed the miserable half-men who cumber this earth, a pitiable myth----"

He had almost shouted.  It was as though he had been addressing a vast audience.  His voice
dropped now, and he walked on, peering about him anxiously.

"Well--well, you are too young.  There are things you can't understand. But I shall teach you.
No, there is no God, Stonehouse."

Robert was vaguely sorry.  It was true that he had no clear idea of God, and yet in some way
He had been mixed up with the bands and music and marching crowds that were always just round
the corner.  In his expansive, genial moments, so rare towards the end.  Dr. Stonehouse had
been known to say, "God bless you, Christine," and that had always meant a few hours' peace.
It seemed very sad.

"What are you going to be, Stonehouse?"

"A doctor, sir."

"Why?"

It was impossible to tell the whole truth--namely, that because Francey had said she was to
be a doctor he had said he would be one too, and a better one at that.  He gave half-measure.

"I want to be."

"Well, that's a good reason.  It might be a great profession, but it has its liars and tricksters
like the rest.  It is eaten up by little men who wrap themselves in priestly garments and hide
their ignorance behind oracular silences.  They play up to the superstitious weakness of the
mob, and replace one religion by another.  They don't care what beastly misery and evil they
keep alive so long as they can pull off their particular little stunts.  You mustn't be like
that, Stonehouse. To be free--to be free--and strong enough to go one's way and trample down
the people who try to turn you aside; that is the only thing worth while.  Don't let them catch
you, Stonehouse.  You don't know how cunning they can be--cunning and cruel."

He sighed again, and Robert did not try to answer.  He had given up all hope of understanding,
and his tiredness was now such that he had to set his teeth to keep the tears back.  At the
corner they waited in silence watching the jolly, yellow-eyed 'bus rumble towards them down
the High Street.

"Your guardian will tell you what we have arranged," Mr. Ricardo said abruptly and with a complete
change of tone.  "In a month you will read better than any of them.  As to the rest, you will
have to compromise. So long as you know what you are doing and don't humbug yourself, there's
no harm done.  With the necessity you will shake yourself free. You can say, 'I believe in
God the Father Almighty' with your lips and in your heart, as I do, damned rot--damned rot.'"

He laughed, and in the lamplight Robert saw his face, puckered with an impish, malicious merriment.
Robert laughed too.  So he had guessed right.  He felt proud and pleased.

"Good night, Stonehouse."

"Good night, sir."

Robert took off his battered cap politely as did other boys.  Mr. Ricardo scrambled into the
'bus with an unexpected agility, and from the bright interior in which he sat a huddled, faceless
shadow, he waved.  Robert waved back.  A fresh rush of elation had lifted him out of his sorrowful
weariness.  His disgrace had been miraculously turned to a kind of secret triumph.  He was
different; but then, how different!  He didn't wear chains or a ring through his nose.  He
was going to know things that no one else knew.  And one day he would be big and free.

5

It did not last.  By the time he had dragged himself up to the top of their stairs there was
nothing left but hunger, the consciousness of tattered, blood-stained clothes, and a sore,
tired body.  After all, he was only a small boy who had wanted to play with other boys, and
had been cast out.  Even Mr. Ricardo could never make them play with him.

It was dark in the sitting-room.  Against the grey, ghostly light of the window he could see
Christine bowed over her typewriter.  She was so still that she frightened him.  All the terrors
of night which lay in wait for him ever since his fathers dead hand had touched his door and
opened it, rushed down upon him with a sweep of black, smothering wings.  He called out "Christine!
Christine!" in a choked voice, and she moved at once, and he saw her profile, sharp-drawn and
unfamiliar.

"Is that you, Robert?  What is it, dear?"

So she had not been worrying about him at all.  She did not know that it was long past their
usual supper-time.  She had been thinking of something else.  It made her seem a terrifyingly
long way off, and he shuffled across the room to her, and touched her to make sure of her.
And it was strange that her hand glided over him anxiously, questioningly, as though in the
darkness she too had been afraid and uncertain.

"Your form-master, Mr. Ricardo, has been here.  We've been talking about you.  Is your coat
very, very torn?"

"Not--not very."

"Never mind.  I'll mend it afterwards--when you've gone to bed."

Because he was so tired himself the unutterable weariness in her voice smote him on the heart
unbearably.  He had never heard it before.  It made him think of her, for the first time, not
just as Christine, who looked after him and loved him, but as someone apart whom, perhaps,
he did not know at all.  Hadn't they asked him, "Who is Christine?"  And he hadn't answered.
He hadn't known.

"Mr. Ricardo says you will need a lot of help to pick up with the other boys.  Poor little
Robert!  But he takes an interest in you, and you are to go to his house in the afternoon to
be coached, and in a few weeks you will know as much as any of them."

He did not know what "coaching" meant, but all of a sudden he had become afraid of Mr. Ricardo.
He did not want to go to him.  He knew that Mr. Ricardo would not like him to play with other
boys, even if he got a chance.  He would want him to be alone and different always.

"He doesn't believe in God," Robert asserted accusingly.  "He said he didn't."

"Perhaps not, dear."

"Doesn't that matter?"

"I don't suppose God minds--if He exists."

"Don't you believe in Him, Christine?"

"I don't know.  People say they believe too easily.  I expect I believe as much as the others.
With most of us it's just--just a hope."

They had never talked together in that way before.  It made her more than ever someone apart
from him, who had her own thoughts, and perhaps her own secret way of being unhappy.  He was
frightened again, not of the darkness now, but of something nearer--something so real and deadly
that the old spectres became almost comic, like ghosts made up of dust-sheets and broom-handles.
Supposing Christine went still further from him--supposing she left him altogether alone? 
She wouldn't do it of her free will, but there were things people couldn't help.  People died.
The thought was a cruel hand twining itself into the strings of his heart.  He tried to see
her face.  Was she young?  He didn't know. He had never thought about it.  She had been grown-up.
That covered everything.  Now in the pale, unreal light her face and hair were a strange dead
gray, and she was old--old.

"Christine, how--how long do people live?"

"It depends.  Sometimes to a hundred--sometimes just a minute.

"But if one is careful, Christine--I mean, really careful?"

"It doesn't always help, Robert.  And even if it did, the people who need to live most have
to take risks----"  She broke off, following her thought further till it was far beyond his
reach.  "In fifteen years you will be grown up.  You will be able to take care of yourself.
What will you be then?"

"A doctor," he said firmly; "and I'll look after you, Christine, and you'll live for ever and
ever."

"A doctor--a doctor!"  She seemed startled, almost frightened.  "Yes, of course.  Your father
would want it.  He was always proud of his profession, though he made fun.  But it will mean
more--waiting a little longer."

She brooded, her hand covering her eyes, and he crept nearer to her, pressing himself against
her arm, trying to draw her back.

"Christine, who--who are you?"

"I don't know, Robert, I don't know----"

"I mean--why do you look after me? You're not my mother."

"Why, I love you."

"But you didn't at the beginning.  You couldn't have done."

"Your father and I were friends.  Yes, always--always--right through everything--to the very
end.  When your mother came into our lives, I loved her almost more.  That will seem very strange
to you one of these days, but it was true.  When she was dying she asked me to take care of
you both."  She drew herself up, and pushed the untidy wisps of hair out of her face, and with
that gesture she seemed suddenly to grow vigorous and young.  "Why, Robert, it's better than
if you were my own son; it's as though in you I had a little of those two always with me."

"Christine, you won't ever leave me, will you?"

For now his fear had him by the throat.  She didn't--she never had belonged to him.  It was
his father and his mother, who were dead.

"Of course not--not so long as you need me.  You mustn't worry.  It's because we're both tired
and hungry.  We'll get supper."

Her voice was its old self.  But whilst she laid the cloth he stood pressed against the window
and looked out with blind eyes into the darkness, so that she should not see his slow, hot
tears.  He was aware of great and bitter loss.  But he loved Christine more than he had ever
done.  His love had ceased to be instinctive.  It had become conscious of itself and of her
separateness.  And it would never be quite free again from pain.

III

1

Long before he could read words of three syllables, Robert had learnt the Origin of Man, and
had made a vivid, somewhat fanciful picture of that personage's pathetic beginnings as a miasm
floating on the earth's surface, and of his accidental, no less pathetic progression as a Survival
of the Fittest.  He gathered that even more than old Jaegers, Mr. Ricardo hated God Almighty
and Jesus Christ, the latter of whom was intimately connected with something called a Sun Myth--chiefly,
Robert supposed, because He was the Son of God.  Mr. Ricardo could not leave these two alone.
He hunted them down, he badgered and worried them, he covered them with gibes and insults.
It seemed to Robert sometimes that even the multiplication table was really a disguised missile
hurled in their unsuspecting and non-existent faces.

Mr. Ricardo appeared to have no friends.  As far as Robert could make out, when he was not
at school he sat at his desk in the untidy, stuffy attic in the still more untidy, stuffy boarding-house
where he lived, and wrote feverishly.  What he wrote Robert did not know.  There was an air
of mystery about the whole business, as though he were concocting a deadly explosive which
might go off at any moment.  Sometimes he seemed dated, sometimes cast down by the results,
but always doggedly resolved.

"It is a long, hard struggle, Stonehouse," he would say.  "There are more fools in this world
than you could conceive possible.  Thank your stars your friend isn't one of them.  A fine,
intelligent woman--a unique woman."

He talked a good deal about Christine and women in general.

"When once we can get them on our side," was one of his dark sayings, "the last trench will
be in our hands."

Then, one evening, to Robert's astonished displeasure, he walked home with him, and somehow
drifted up their dark stairs to the little sitting-room where Christine was laying supper.
It appeared that he had come to give an account of his pupil's progress, but he was oddly excited,
and when Christine invited him to share their meal--surely he could have seen there wasn't
enough to go round, Robert thought--he accepted with a transparent, childlike eagerness that
made Robert stare at him as at a stranger.  And after supper, with the self-conscious air of
a man who has waited for this moment, be produced from his coat pocket a crumpled newspaper
with the title Unshackled printed in aggressive letters on its pale-green cover.

"In my leisure time I write a good deal on a subject very dear to me, Miss Forsyth," he said
and screwed up his sharp nose in a kind of nervous anguish.  "I have here an article published
last week--you are a broad-minded, intelligent woman--I thought perhaps it might interest you--if
you would care to glance over it."

Christine lay back in her chair, her face in shadow.  But the lamplight fell on her two hands.
Red and misshapen as they were now, they were still noble hands, and their repose had dignity
and beauty.

"Won't you read it to us, Mr. Ricardo?  My eyes are tired at night."

He cleared his throat.

"It is an answer to Bishop Crawford's recent letter to The Times, which you may have seen.
I have called it 'Unmasking the Oracle.'"

Robert leant out of the window and watched the sun sink into mist and smoke.  He wished Mr.
Ricardo hadn't come; and that he would go away soon. In a few minutes the light would begin
to die, and the sharp black lines of the roofs and spires, which on the ruins of their dull
selves seemed to be built anew into a witchlike fantastic city, would be lost to him for another
night.  Robert did not want to hear about God and the origin of man now.  He kicked impatiently.
Christine would sit up later than ever. And, besides with Mr. Ricardo's voice rising and falling,
growing shriller and more passionate, one could not listen to that low, mysterious hum that
was so like a far-off music.

Mr. Ricardo made a sweeping, crushing gesture.  "That, surely, settles the controversy.  He
will hardly be able to answer that, I think."

Christine stirred, and opened her eyes, and smiled a little.

"I could not answer it, at any rate.  It sounds very clever."  She took the paper from him
and held it to the light, and Robert turned, hoping that now he would really go.  "But--but
I didn't quite understand--have I lost the place?--this is by E. T. Richards."

Then Robert saw an astonishing thing.  Suddenly Mr. Ricardo seemed to shrivel--to cower back
into himself.  His fierce, triumphant energy had gone as at a blasting touch of magic.  He
looked ashamed and broken.

"A nom de plume--a nom de guerre, rather, Miss Forsyth--you understand--in my opinion--the
scholastic profession--the stronghold of the worst bigotry and prejudice--for myself I should
not care--I have always wanted to come out into the open--but I have a sister--poor girl!--a
long, sad illness--for her sake--I can't afford----"

Christine folded the paper gently as though she were afraid of hurting it.

"Of course.  It would be unwise--unnecessary.  Why should one sacrifice oneself to fight something
that doesn't exist?"

He clenched his fists.

"One must fight error, Miss Forsyth."

"At any rate it's brave of you to try--to do what you think is right." And now it seemed she
was trying to find something that would comfort him--just as she had once given Robert peppermint
balls when he had hurt himself.  "If ever you feel inclined, won't you come again--and read to us?"

He looked at her with dark, tragic eyes.

"Thank you, thank you."

Robert went with him to the door, and for a moment he wavered on the steps, blinking, and squeezing
his soft hat between his bony hands.

"A great woman--a kind woman--you must be worth her while, Stonehouse."

And then, without so much as a "good night," he limped down the steps and along the street,
flitting in and out of the lamplight like a hunted bat.

It was the first of many tiresome evening visits.  But the next day he was always himself again,
and the class wilted under his merciless, contemptuous sarcasms.  Only Robert was not afraid.
He knew that the lash would never come his way, and he could feel the little man's unspoken
pride, when he showed himself quicker than his companions, like a secret Masonic pressure of
the hand.  And there was something else.  It was a discovery that made him at first almost
dizzy with astonishment.  He wasn't stupid.  Just as he was stronger, so he was cleverer than
boys older than himself.  He could do things at once over which they botched and bungled. 
He outstripped them when he chose.  Even his ignorance did not handicap him for long.  For
Mr. Ricardo had kept his promise.  He taught well, and in those long afternoons in the hot
boarding-house attic Robert had raced over the lost ground.  He did not always want to work.
He gazed out of the window, half his mind busy planning what he and Rufus Cosgrave would do
when they met at the corner of the street, but he could not help understanding what was so
obvious, and there were moments when sheer interest swept him off his feet, and even Rufus
was forgotten.  He took an audacious pleasure, too, in leaping suddenly over the heads of the
whole class to the first place.  He did not always bother.  He liked to wait for some really
teasing question, and then, when silence had become hopeless, hold up his hand.  Mr. Ricardo
would look towards him, apparently incredulous and satirical, but Robert could read the message
which the narrowed eyes twinkled at him.

"Of course you understand, Stonehouse."

And then he would answer and sweep the sullen class with a cool, exasperating indifference
as he sat down.  For he did not want them any more.  He returned instinctive enmity with the
scorn of a growing confidence.  It was rather fine to stand by yourself, especially when you
had one friend who thought you splendid whatever you did, who clung to you, and whom you had
to protect.  When he walked arm in arm with Rufus Cosgrave in the playground he trailed his
coat insolently, and the challenge was not once accepted.  From the biggest boys to Dickson
Minor, no one cared to risk the limitless possibilities of an encounter, and the word "carrots"
was not so much as whispered in his hearing.

Then in the late afternoon the real day seemed to begin.  Then the hardness and distrust with
which he had unconsciously armed himself fell away, and he and Rufus Cosgrave sat side by side
in the sooty grass behind the biscuit factory, and with arms clasped about their scarred and
grubby knees planned out the vague but glorious time that waited for them.  Rufus was to be
a Civil Servant.  He did not seem to care much for the prospect or even to be very clear as
to what would be expected of him.  He felt, with Robert, that a Civil Servant sounded servile
and romanceless, but unfortunately the profession, whatever it was, ran in the family.

"My father's one, you know.  So I've got to.  I'd rather play the piano. But, of course, I
wouldn't say so to anyone but you.  It sounds too beastly silly----"

"I'd say whatever I wanted to," Robert retorted grandly, "I'll always say what I want to and
do what I jolly well like when I'm grown up anyhow. You can if you're strong enough."

"But then people hate you," Rufus said sadly.

"That doesn't matter a bit."

"Don't you mind people not liking you?"

"Rather not."

Rufus fumbled anxiously.

"Wouldn't you be pleased if--if you were asked to play in the eleven--and the chaps cheered
you like they do Christopher when he kicks a goal?"

"I shouldn't care--not a button."  But he knew even then that it was not true.  His heart had
leapt at the very thought.  He drew his fair brows together in the portentous Stonehouse scowl.
"It's silly to mind what silly people think.  And kicking goals is no good.  I'm going to be
a doctor--not just the ordinary sort--a big doctor--and I'll discover things--and people like
Christopher'll come and beg me to keep them alive."

Rufus sighed deeply.

"I wish I was like that.  I mind awfully--being ragged, and all that.  I was awfully miserable
until you came.  If you went away--or didn't care any more--I don't know what I'd do.  But
if I went away you wouldn't mind----"

"Yes, I would."

"But you're so much stronger."

"I like being strongest."

And then and there he expounded the doctrine of the Survival, and Rufus began to shiver all
over like a frightened pony.

"I think it's perfectly beastly.  What'll happen to me?  Anyone can lick me.  I wouldn't have
a chance."

The tears came into his round, blue eyes and trickled down his freckled cheeks, and a sudden
choking tenderness, a dim perception of all that this one friend meant to him, made Robert
fling his arms about him and hug him close.

"Yes--you would.  Because I'll look after you--always--honest injun."

2

There was one secret that he never told to anyone--not even to Cosgrave. He was ashamed of
it.  He knew it was silly--sillier than in believing in God--and he had almost succeeded in
forgetting it when it came true.  It happened.  Just when he was least expecting it it came
round the corner. First the music, a long way off, but growing louder and fiercer so that it
seemed as though his fancy had suddenly jumped out of his brain and was running about by itself,
doing just what it liked; then lights, torches with streaming flags of fire that put out the
street lamps altogether, and the shadows of people marching--running--leaping--capering.

Robert ran too.  He did not stop to think what it was.  He was wild with excitement, and as
he ran he bounded into the air and waved his arms in a pent-up joy of living and moving.  He
never had much chance to run.  You couldn't run by yourself for nothing.  People stared or
were annoyed when you bumped against them.  But now there was something to run for.  There
was no one to see or hear him in the deserted Grove, and with each bound he let out an unearthly,
exultant whoop.

At the corner where Acacia Grove met the High Street Rufus Cosgrave squirmed out of the pushing,
jostling crowd and caught hold of him.  He was capless, panting.  His red hair stood on end.
In the flickering torch light he looked like a small, delirious Loga.

"I say--Stonehouse--I was coming for you--it's a circus--they're going all the way down to
the Green--they've got their tent there--if we could only climb up somewhere--I can't see a
thing--not even the elephant's legs."

"If we cut round by Griffith's Road we'll get there first," Robert shouted.  "Only we've got
to run like mad."

He seized Rufus by the hand and they shot free of the procession, up and down dim and decorous
streets, swerving round corners and past astonished policemen whose "Now then, you young devils"
was lost in the clatter of their feet.  Cosgrave gasped, but Robert's hold was relentless,
compelling.  He could have run faster by himself, but somehow he could not let Cosgrave go.
"You've got to stick it," he hissed fiercely.  "It's only a minute."

Cosgrave had no choice but to "stick it."  It did not even occur to him to resist though his
eyes seemed to be bulging out of his head and his lungs on the point of bursting.  But the
reward was near at hand.  There, at the bottom of Griffith's Road, they could see it--the Green,
unfamiliar with its garish lights and the ghostly, gleaming tents.

"We've done it!" Robert shouted.  "Hurrah--hurrah!"

They had, in fact, time to spare.  The procession was still only half-way down the High Street,
a dull red glow, like the mouth of a fiery cave, widening with every minute as though to swallow
them.  There was, indeed, a disconcerting crowd gathered round the chief entrance, but Robert
was like a general, cool and vigorous, strung up to the finest pitch of cunning.  He wormed
his way under the ropes, he edged and insinuated himself between the idle and good-natured
onlookers, with Cosgrave, tossed and buffeted, but still in tow, struggling in the backwash.
At last they were through, next to the entrance, and in the very front row of all.

"Now you'll see the elephant," Robert laughed triumphantly, "every bit of him,"

"Oh, my word!" Cosgrave gasped.  "Oh, my word!"

It was coming.  It made itself felt even before it came into sight by the sudden tensity of
the crowd, the anxious pressure from behind, the determined pushing back by the righteously
indignant in front, the craning of necks, and indistinguishable, thrilling murmur.  A small
boy, whom Robert recognized as the butcher's son, evidently torn between the dignity and excitement
of his new post, stalked ahead and thrust printed notices into the outstretched hands.  Robert
seized hold of one, but he was too excited to read.  He felt Rufus poke him insistently.

"What's it say--what's it say?"

"Shut up--I don't know--look for yourself."

There they were.  The six torch-bearers were dressed like mediaeval pages, or near enough.
Their tight-fitting cotton hose, sagging a little at the knees, were sky-blue, and their tunics
green and slashed with yellow. They wore jaunty velvet caps and fascinating daggers, ready
to hand.  As they reached the entrance to the tent they halted, and with some uneasy shuffling
formed up on either side, making a splendid passage of fire for the ten Moorish horsemen who
rode next, fierce fellows these, armed to the teeth, with black, shining faces and rolling
eyes.  A band struck up inside the tent to welcome them, and they rode through, scarcely bending
their proud heads--much to the relief of the more timorous members of the crowd who had eyed
the rear end of their noble steeds with a natural anxiety.  Unfortunately the torches smoked
a good deal, and there was some grumbling.

"'Ere, take the stinking thing out of me eyes, can't yer?"

"Right down dangerous, I calls it.  If one of them there sparks gets into me 'at I'll be all
ablaze in half a jiffy.  And oo'll pay for the feathers, I'd like to know?"

"Oh, shut up--shut up!" Robert whispered bitterly.  "Why can't everyone shut up?"

"The Biggest and Best Show in Europe," Rufus was reading aloud in a squeaky treble; "un-pre-ce-dented
spectacles--performing sea-lions--great chariot-race--the Legless Wonder from Iceland--Warogha,
the Missing Link--the greatest living Lady Equestrian, Madame Gloria Marotti, Mad-rad--oh,
I can't read that--Gyp Labelle, the darling of the Folies Bergeres--what's Folies Bergeres,
Robert----?  Oh, my word--my word!"

It was the Shetland ponies that had saved Robert the trouble of replying that he didn't know.
After the ferocious magnificence of the Moorish gentlemen, they came as a sort of comic relief.
Everyone laughed, and even the lady with the feather hat recovered her good temper.

"Why, you could keep one of them in the back yard--not an inch bigger than our collie, is he,
'Enry?  And Jim's not full grown--not by 'alf."

"As though anyone cared about her beastly collie!" Robert thought.

The elephants, a small one and a big one together to show their absurd proportions, came next.
The earth shook under them.  They waved their trunks hopefully from side to side, and their
little brown eyes, which seemed to have no relation to their bodies, peered out like prisoners
out of the peep-holes of a monstrous moving prison.  When the man next to Robert offered the
smallest of them an empty paper-bag it curled its trunk over his head and opened its pointed
mouth and let out a piercing squeal of protest which alarmed its tormentor, and caused his
neighbours to regard him with nervous disapproval.  But the big elephant seemed to exercise
a soothing influence over its companion.  It waved its trunk negligently as though in contemptuous
dismissal of a commonplace incident.

"My dear," it said, "that's all you can expect of such people."

There were men seated on the big elephants' necks, their legs tucked comfortably behind the
enormous flapping ears.  They looked mysterious and proud in their position.  They wore turbans
and carried sticks with pointed iron spikes at the head, and when they came to the low entrance
of the tent they prodded their huge beasts, which went down on their knees, painfully yet with
a kind of sorrowful pride, and blundered through amidst the admiring murmur of the crowd.

"The way they manage them big brutes!" declared the lady with the feathered hat disconsolately.
"And there's our George, a proper 'uman being, and can't be got to do a thing--nohow."

The band inside had stopped, beaten in the hard-fought contest with its rival at the far end
of the procession, which thereupon broke out into throaty triumphant trumpet blasts and exultant
roll of drums.  Rufus clutched wildly at Robert's sleeve.

"Oh, my word, just look at her!  Oh, my word!"

Robert craned forward, peering round the embonpoint of the man next him. The procession now
scarcely moved, and there was a space between the last elephant and the great coal-black horse
that followed--a wide, solemn space, that invited you to realize that this was the finest sight
you had ever seen in your life.  He was indeed a splendid, terrifying creature. As Rufus Cosgrave
said loudly, he was not like a human horse at all.  One could imagine him having just burst
out of hell, still breathing fire and smoke and rolling his eyes in the anguish of his bridled
wickedness.  In the glare from the tent-door he gleamed darkly, a wild thing of black flames,
and those in the front row of the crowd trod nervously on the toes of those behind, edging
out of reach of his restless, dancing hoofs.  For it seemed impossible that the woman in the
saddle should be really his master.  And yet she sat upright and unconcerned.  In its black,
close-fitting habit, her supple body looked a living, vital part of the splendid beast.  She
was his brain, stronger than his savage instinct, and every threatening move of his great limbs
was dictated to him without a sound, almost without a gesture.  A touch of a slender, patent-leather
boot set him prancing, an imperceptible twist of the wrist and he stood stock still, foam-necked
and helpless.  It was a proud--an awe-inspiring spectacle.  And it was not only her fearless
strength.  She was fair and beautiful.  So Robert saw her.  He saw nothing else.  He gazed
and gazed, heart-stricken.  He did not hear Rufus speak to him, or the band which was blaring
out a Viennese waltz, an old thing, whistled and danced half to death long since, but which,
having perhaps a spark of immortal youth left among the embers, had not lost its power to make
the pulses quicken. Indeed it even played a humble part in this great moment in Robert's life.
Though he did not hear it, it poured emotion into the heated, dusty air. It painted the tawdry
show with richer colours.  It was the rider's invisible retinue.  At a touch from her heel
the horse danced to it, in perfect time, arching his great neck, and rolling his wild eyes.

She was proud, too.  Robert saw how she disdained the gaping multitude. She rode with haughtily
lifted head and only once her glance, under the white, arrogant lids, dropped for an instant.
Was it chance, was it the agonized intensity of his own gaze which drew it to the small boy
almost under her horse's hoofs?  (For he had held his ground.  He was not afraid. Unlike the
rest, his trust in her was limitless and unquestioning.  And if she chose to ride him down,
he would not care, no more than a fanatic worshipper beneath the wheels of a Juggernaut.) 
Now under her eyes his heart stood still, his knees shook.  She did not smile; she did not
recognize his naked, shameless adoration.  And that too was well.  A smile would have lowered
her, brought her down from her superb distance.  His happiness choked him.  She was the embodiment
of everything that he had heard pass in the distance from the silent dusks of Acacia Grove--splendour
and power, laughter and music, the beat of a secret pulse answering the tread of invisible
processions.  She came riding out of the mists of his fancy into light, a living reality that
he could take hold of, and set up in his empty temple.  She was not his mother, nor Francey,
nor God, but she was everything that in their vague and different ways these three had been
to him before he lost them.  She was something to be worshipped, to be died for, if necessary,
with joy and pride.

But in a moment it was over.  She looked away from him and rode forward, like a monarch into
a grandly illuminated castle, amidst the whispered plaudits of her people.

A little girl on a Shetland pony rode at her heels, Robert saw her without wanting to see her.
She obtruded herself vulgarly.  She was dressed as a page, her painfully thin legs looking
like sticks of peppermint in their parti-coloured tights, and either was, or pretended to be,
terrified of her minute and tubbily good-natured mount.  At its first move forward she fell
upon its neck with shrill screams and clung on grotesquely, righting herself at last to make
mock faces at the grinning crowd.

"Oh, la, la--la-la!"

She was a plain child with a large nose, slightly Jewish in line, a wide mouth, and a mass
of crinkly fair hair that stood out in a pert halo about her head.  Robert hated her for the
brief moment in which she invaded his consciousness.  It was quite evident that she was trying
to draw attention from the splendid creature who had preceded her to her own puny and outrageous
self, and that by some means or other she succeeded.  She gesticulated, she drew herself up
in horrible imitation of a proud and noble bearing, she pretended that the rotund pony was
prancing to the music, and, finally, burst into fits of laughter.  The crowd laughed with her,
helplessly as though at a huge joke which she shared with each one of them in secret.

"Oh, la la, la la."

The man at Robert's side wiped his eyes.

"Well, did you see that?  Upon my word----"

"A baggage--that's what I call 'er," the feathered lady retorted severely. "Mark my words--a
baggage."

Rufus jogged Robert in the side.

"Wasn't she a joke?  Didn't she make you scream?"

Robert hated them all.  Beastly, despicable people who liked beastly, despicable things.

More horsemen, camels, clowns on foot and clowns on donkeys.  Finally the band, slightly winded
by this time, and playing raggedly.  The torch-bearers formed up, and a large gentleman in
riding boots stood for a moment in the light.

"To-morrow evening at eight o'clock--the first performance of the Greatest Show in Europe--a
unique opportunity--better book your seats early, ladies and gentlemen----"

Then the flaps of the tent fell and all the lights and sounds seemed to go out at once.  The
crowd melted away, and only Robert and his companion remained gazing spellbound at the closed
and silent cave which had swallowed all the enchantment.

Rufus put his hands into his hair and tugged it desperately.

"Oh, if only I could go--if only I could----  Don't you want to go, Robert?"

Robert woke partially from his dream.

"I'm going."  He turned, and with his hands thrust into his pockets began to walk homewards.
Rufus trotted feverishly at his side.

"I say, are you really?  But then you've got no people; jolly for you.  I wish I hadn't.  My
pater's so beastly strict; I'm scared of him.  I say, when will you go?"

"To-morrow night, of course."

"Have you got the money?"

"No, but I'll get it."

"Oh, I say, I wish I could.  P'r'aps I could too.  I've got money--yes, I have, even if it
is in a beastly tin box.  What's the good of saving till you're grown up?  I shan't want it
then like I do now.  It's silly.  All grown-up people are silly.  When I'm grown up I'll be
different.  I say, Robert, I can come with you, can't I?"

"Oh, yes--if you want to."  He was indifferent.  It puzzled him slightly that Rufus should
be so eager.  What did he know of the true inwardness of what he had seen?  What had it got
to do with him, anyway?

Rufus brooded, his freckled face puckered with anxious contriving.

"I say, I've got an idea!  I'll tell the pater you've asked me to come over and spend the evening
with you at your place.  It'll be sort of true, won't it?  And then he'll never think about
the money.  You won't mind, will you?  It'll never come out--and if it does, I'll say I made
it up."

"I don't care.  All right."

Rufus drew a great sigh of relief.

"Isn't it ripping?  Oh, I say, I wish it was to-morrow night.  I hope I don't die first.  What
did you like best, Robert?  Who are you keenest on?"

Robert did not answer.  It would have been sacrilege to talk her over--to drag her down into
a silly controversy.  He longed for the moment when Rufus would have to leave him.  He wanted
to be alone and silent.  Even the thought of Christine and of her inevitable questions hurt
him like the touch of a rough, unfeeling hand.

"I liked that kid best--that girl on the funny pony.  She must have been at the Folies Bergeres,
don't you think?  Folies Bergeres sounds French, and she was making sort of French noises.
She made me laugh."  Something wistful and hungry came into his shrill voice.  He pressed close
to Robert's side.  "I like people who make me laugh.  I like them better than anything in the
world, don't you?  It's jolly to be able to laugh like that--right from one's inside----"

But Robert only smiled scornfully, hugging his secret closer to himself.

3

She came on for the last time in the Final, when the whole circus, including the Legless Wonder,
paraded round the ring to the competitive efforts of both bands.  Robert's eyes followed her
with anguish.  It wasn't happiness any more.  He might have been a condemned man counting the
last minutes of his life.  He was almost glad when it was over and her upright figure had vanished
under the arch.  People began to fidget and reach for their hats and coats.  A grubby youth
with a hot, red face and a tray slung round his neck pushed his way between the benches shouting:
"Signed photographs of the c'lebrities, twopence each!" in a raucous indifferent voice.  Robert
waved to him, and he took no notice.

"Hi--hi!" Robert called faintly.

The youth stopped.  He was terribly bored at first, but his boredom became a cynical amusement.
There were twenty different photographs of Madame Gloria Moretti:

Madame Moretti full face, side face, three-quarter face, on her famous horse Arabesque, with
her beautiful foot on Arabesque's prostrate form, in evening dress, stepping into her car--a
car, at any rate--and so on, with "Gloria Moretti" scrawled nobly across every one of them.
Robert bought them all.  He stuffed them into his coat pockets, into his trouser pockets. 
He dropped them.  He dropped the pennies and sixpences which he tried to count into the tray
with shaking fingers.  He was drunk and reckless with his despairing love.   The sales-boy
winked at everyone in general.

"Takin' it 'ard, ain't 'e, the young dawg?"

People smiled tolerantly.  Their smiles said as plainly as possible: "We remember being just
as silly as that," and Robert hated them.  It wasn't true.  They didn't remember.  They had
forgotten.  Or, if they remembered at all, it was only the things they had done, not what they
had felt--the frightful pain that was an undreamed-of happiness, and the joy that tore the
heart out of you, and the wonder of a new discovery.  You lost yourself, You gave everything
that you were and had.  You asked nothing, hoped for nothing.  And suddenly you became strong
so that you were not afraid any more of anything in the world--not of punishment nor disgrace,
nor even laughter.

But they pretended to understand.  Their pretence made you despise and pity them.  It was a
horrid thing, as though a skeleton came to life and jiggled its bones and mouthed at you, "You
see, I used to do that too." That was why you told lies to them--even to Christine.

He had forgotten his cap.  The sales-boy ran after him with it and stuck it on his thick fair
hair back to front.

"There--you'll be losing your 'ead next!"

It was dusk outside.  The evening performance began at once, and already a thick black stream
of people was pouring up the roped gangways and frothing and seething at the box offices. 
As they came out of the darkness they had a mystical air of suddenly returned life.  They were
pilgrims' souls surging at the entrance of Paradise.  In a little while they would see her.
Not that they would know what they saw.  They would not be able to understand how great, how
brave and splendid she was.  In their blindness of heart they would prefer the ugly little
French girl with her shrill voice and absurd caperings; their clapping would be half-hearted,
polite, and there would be no passionate, insistent pair of hands to beat up their flagging
enthusiasm and bring her back once more into the arena, bowing in regal scorn of them.

For he, Robert, had brought her back twice, just because he wouldn't stop--had beaten his hands
till even now they were hot and swollen.  She had not known, and he would not have had her
know for the whole world. That was part of the mystery.  You yourself were as nothing.

But it did hurt intolerably to think that perhaps because he was not there she would not be
called back so often.  It was as though he betrayed her--broke his allegiance.  That afternoon,
when it had seemed that the evening could never really come, he had told himself that this
was the last time; but now, standing on the dim outskirts of the crowd, the photographs that
he hadn't been able to fit into his pockets held fast in his burning hands, he saw how impossible,
how even wrong and faithless that decision had been.  So long as a shilling remained to him
he had to go, he had to take his place among her loyal people.  It meant being "found out"
hopelessly and violently.   They--the mysterious "they" of authority--might destroy him utterly.
That would be the most splendid thing of all.  He would have done all that he could do.  He
would have laid his last tribute at her unconscious feet and gone out in fire and thunder.

He had actually joined the box-office queue when Rufus Cosgrave found him. Rufus had been running
hard and he was out of breath, and his blue eyes had a queer, strained look, as though they
had wanted to cry and had not had the time.  And on his dead-white face the freckles stood
out, ludicrously vivid.

"Oh, I say, Robert, where have you been?  I waited and waited for you. And then I went round
to your place--and Miss Forsyth said she didn't know and she seemed awfully worried--and--and--oh,
I say--you're not going again, are you?"

Robert nodded calmly.  But his heart had begun to beat thickly with the premonition of disaster.

"Yes, I am."

"You might have told me--oh, I say, do listen--do come out a minute--I'm in an awful hole--there's
going to be an awful row--I'm--I'm so beastly scared----"

He was shivering.  He did not seem to know that people were looking at him.  His voice was
squeaky and broken.  He tugged at Robert's sleeve. "Oh, I say--do come----"

Robert looked ahead of him.  It meant losing his place.  Instead of being so close to her that
he could smell the warm, sweet scent of her as she passed, he would have to peer between peopled
heads, and she would be a far-off vision to him.  And yet, oddly enough, it did not occur to
him to refuse.  He stood out, and they walked together towards the dark, huddled army of caravans
beyond the tents.

"What is it?  What's the row?"

"It's Father--he's got wind of something--Mother told me--he's going to open my money-box when
he comes home to-night.  I didn't know he'd kept count--just the sort of beastly thing he would
do--and oh, Robert, when he finds out I've been cramming him he'll kill me--he will, really----"

At another time Robert might have consoled him with the assurance that even the beastliest
sort of father might hesitate to risk his neck on such slight provocation, but he himself was
overwrought with three days of peril, of desperate subterfuge and feverish alternations between
joy and anguish.  Now, in the mysterious twilight, the most terrible, as the most wonderful
things seemed not merely possible but likely.  It made it all the more terrible that Rufus
should have to endure so much because he had taken a fancy to a silly kid who laughed like
a hyena till you laughed yourself, however much you hated her.

He held Cosgrave's sticky hand tight, and at that loyal understanding pressure Cosgrave began
to cry, shaking from head to foot, jerking out his words between his chattering teeth.

"It's s-stupid to cry--I do w-wish I w-wasn't always c-crying about everything--after all--he
c-can't kill me more than once, can he?  But he's such a beast.  He h-hates anyone else to
h-have a good time and tell lies.  He's always so j-jolly glad to let into me or mother--and
when he finds out we've been stuffing him he--he goes mad--and preaches for days and days.
Mother's a brick.  She gave me a shilling to put back--but he--he keeps her short, and she
has to tell about every penny.  She says she'll have to pretend she lost it.  And it's not
enough, anyway. Oh--Robert, you don't know what a row there'll be."

But Robert knew.  He felt the cruel familiar ruffling of the nerves.  He heard the thud of
his father's step, the horrible boom of his father's voice, "You're a born liar, Christine--you're
making my son into a liar." It was as though Dr. Stonehouse had pushed off the earth that covered
him and stood up.

It was awful that Rufus should be frightened too.  It wasn't fair.  He wasn't strong enough.

"I say--we'll have to do something.  How much did you take out?"

"'Bout three shillings--there was an extra penny or two--p'r'aps he wouldn't notice that, though--I
thought p'r'aps--oh, I don't know what I thought--but I had to come to tell you--I hadn't anyone
else----"

Robert nodded.  He stopped and looked back towards the big central tent. It had grown at once
larger and vaguer.  The lighted entrance had a sort of halo round it like the moon before it
is going to rain.  There was an empty, sinking feeling in his stomach, and he too had begun
to tremble, in little, uncontrollable gusts.  He let go his hold on Rufus's hand so that he
should not know.

"I've got two bob--somewhere," he heard himself saying casually and rather grandly.

He knew now that he would never see her again.  There was no struggle in his mind, because
there did not seem to be any choice.  It wasn't that little Cosgrave counted more--he hardly
counted at all in that moment. But she, if she knew he existed, would expect him to do the
right, the fine thing.  Francey would have expected it.  And she was only a mere girl.  How
much more this noble, wonderful woman?  It was better than clapping.  Somewhere at the back
of his mind was the idea that he offered her a more gallant tribute, and that one day she would
know that he had stuck up for Cosgrave for her sake, and, remote and godlike though she was,
be just a little pleased.  The comfort of it was a faint warm light showing through his darkness.
It was all he had.  As he dug those last, most precious shillings out of the chaos of his pockets
he felt himself go sick and faint, just as he had done when, in a desperate fight, a boy bigger
than himself had kicked his shin.

"There--you can put them back, can't you?  He'll never know----"

Rufus stopped crying instantly, after the miraculous fashion of his years. He cut an elfish
caper.  He rubbed himself against his saviour like some small grateful animal.

"I say, you are a brick.  I knew you'd help somehow.  Won't he be sold, though?  I'll just
love to see his beastly face!  What luck--not having a father, like you.  I say, though, is
that all you've got?  You won't be able to go to the show now--and you're so keen, aren't you?"

"It doesn't matter," Robert answered carelessly.  "I don't mind much--not really."

He began to walk on, Rufus tagging valiantly at his heels.

"And--and if anyone asks--you'll say I was at your place--doing prep.--won't you?"

"Oh, rather----"

"It's awfully decent of you.  You don't mind telling fibs, do you, Robert?"

"One has to," Robert answered austerely.  "Everyone has to."

Now that it was all over and he turned his back on her for ever, the splendid glow of renunciation
began to fade.  Life stretched before him, a black limitless emptiness.  He wished agonizedly
that Arabesque had gone mad and bolted and that he had stopped him and saved his rider's life,
dying gloriously and at once, instead of miserably and by inches, like this.  He felt that
in a moment the pain in his throat would get the better of him and he would begin to cry.

They stopped at the far end of the Green where it was dark and they could hardly see each other.
He heard Cosgrave breathing heavily through his nose, almost snorting, and then a timid, shamefaced
whisper:

"You are decent to me.  I say--I do love you so, Robert."

It was an awful thing to have said.  They both knew it.  If anyone had overheard them the shame
would have haunted them to their death.  And yet it was wonderful too.  Never to be forgotten.

"You oughtn't to say rotten, stupid things like that--like silly girls." And then, as though
it had been torn from him.  "I love you too, Rufus."

After that he ran madly so that Rufus could not overtake him--above all so that he could not
hear the band which had begun to play the opening march.

4

But before he had stopped running he had begun to plot again.  Even though he had made the
great renunciation he could not help hoping.  It was the kind of hope that, when one is very
young, follows on the heels of absolute despair, and is based on magical impossibilities. 
It was like his birthday hopes, which had been known to rise triumphant above the most obvious
and discouraging facts.  After all there was to-morrow.  He would tell Christine everything--open
his heart to her as to a good and understanding friend--and she would give him six-pence so
that he could stand in the cheap places, or perhaps a shilling so that he could go twice. 
He would tell her how he had saved Cosgrave from a fearful row, and she would approve of him
and sympathize with Cosgrave, who had such beastly, understanding people.

He would hug her and say;

"It's jolly to have someone like you, Christine!"

And she would be enormously pleased, and in the dusk they would sit close together and he would
tell her of his superb being who changed the course of his life, who was like his mother and
Francey and God rolled into one, and for whose sake he had emptied the housekeeping purse.

Perhaps it would all have happened just as he planned it, could it have happened then and there.
But the front door was closed and he had to wait a long time for the landlady's heavy answering
tread.  When she came at last it was from upstairs--he could tell by her breathing and a familiar
creak--and a cold dead hand laid itself on his heart and squeezed the hope out of it.  They
had been talking about him--those two grown-up people. He knew the kind of things they had
said: "It's very tiresome of him to be out so late, Mrs. Withers," and, "Boys is worritting,
outrageous critters, M'am," and the cruel impossibility of reaching their far-off impervious
understanding lamed him before the door had opened.

Mrs. Withers' lumpy figure loomed up grotesquely against the yellow murk.

"Is that you, Master Robert?  You'd better run up quick.  Your aunt is going to give you a
jacketing, I can tell you."

"Aunt" was the term with which Mrs. Withers covered up what she considered privately to be
an ambiguous relationship.

Robert slunk past her.  He crawled upstairs with an aggressive deliberation.  He would show
how much he cared.  He was not afraid of Christine.  He had seen her unhappy too often.  In
a way he knew that he was stronger than she was.  For she was old and had no one to love but
himself.

All the same he was afraid.  With every step he took he seemed to climb farther and farther
into the midst of fear.  It was all around him--in the close, airless dark and in the deathly
quiet light that came from the open doorway overhead.  What was waiting for him there?  His
father, risen unimaginably loathsome from the grave?  For he could never be in the dark without
thinking of his father.  Or something else?  At least he knew that the never-really-believed-in
time of peace was over and that the monster which had lain hidden and quiescent so long was
crouched somewhere close to him, ready to leap out.

Christine sat by the table under the light.  There was a drawer beside her which she had evidently
torn out of its place in panic-stricken haste, for the floor about her was littered with its
contents--gloves and handkerchiefs and ribbons.  She held a shabby, empty purse in her limp
hand, and it was as though she had sat down because she had no longer the strength to stand.
He had not known before how grey her hair was.  Her face was grey, too, and withered like a
dead leaf.

He stood hesitating in the doorway and they looked at one another.  There was no question of
punishment or reproof between them.  It was the old days over again when they had clung together
in the face of a common peril--helpless and horribly afraid.  She tried to smile and push the
empty purse out of sight as though it were of no account at all.  And all at once he was ashamed
and miserable with pity.

"I was beginning to get quite worried about you." He could hardly hear her.  "Where have you
been, Robert?"

He answered heavily, not moving from the doorway where he hung like a sullen shadow.

"At the Circus."

"Is there a Circus?  Why didn't Mrs. Withers tell me?  If I had known that I shouldn't have
worried.  I expect you were there yesterday too--and the day before, weren't you, dear?"

He nodded, and she began to bundle everything back into the drawer, as though at last a tiresome
question had been satisfactorily settled.

"I knew it was all right.  Mr. Ricardo was here this afternoon.  He thought I was ill--he thought
you had told him you couldn't come because I was ill.  I said I had had to stay at home--it
was easier--I knew there had been a mistake."

The old life again.  They were confederates and she had lied to shield him even from herself.
She was looking past him as though she saw someone standing behind him in the dark passage.
He was so sure of it that he wanted to turn round.  But he did not dare.

"I wish I'd known.  We--we might have gone together.  I used to be very fond of a good circus.
Did they have elephants?  Robert--Robert, dear, why didn't you tell me about it?"

He shook his head.  He knew now that he could never have told her or made her understand. 
She would have thought him silly--or disloyal.  She would never see that this new love had
nothing to do with the Robert who would die if Christine left him.  It had to do with another
boy who longed for bands and processions and worshipped happy, splendid people who did not
have to tell lies and who were so strong and fearless that even fierce animals had to obey
them.  They were different.  They did not live in the same life.  You could love them without
pain or pity.

It was a secret thing, inside himself.  If he tried to drag it out and show it her, no one
could tell what would happen to it.

She sighed deeply.

"It's this being away all day.  If I had been at home you would have asked me for the money,
wouldn't you?  And then you forgot to tell me.  But I've been a little worried.  You didn't
take it all, did you, dear?"

"Yes, I did.  I spent it at the Circus.  And then I gave some to Cosgrave."

He saw the blood rush up wildly into her white face.  The next minute she had laughed--a gay,
unfamiliar laugh--and he winced and shivered as though she had struck him.

"Why, that's so like your father--that's just what your father would have done.  He loved doing
kind, generous things--giving money away."

And now he knew for certain who it was who stood behind him in the dark passage.  He could
not bear it.  He slammed the door to, closing his eyes tight so that he should not see.  He
ran to her, pressing himself against her, stammering passionately.

"I'm not like my father--I'm not--I'm not.  I won't be."

She petted him tenderly.  She was grave now and sure of herself.

"You mustn't say that, Robert.  Your father was a wonderful man, in many ways.  People didn't
understand him--only your mother and I.  If your mother had lived it would all have been quite
different.  He was unfortunate and often very unhappy.  The world thinks so much of money.
But he despised it.  It was nothing to him.  You're like that too.  You didn't realize, did
you?  It didn't seem a great deal.  It was just a beginning.  But I have had to do without
food.  I've been hungry sometimes--I think I ought to tell you this, so that you may understand--I've
looked into shop-windows at lunch-time.  You see, it was to pay for the time when you are preparing
to be a doctor.  It means hundreds of pounds, Robert.  But I calculated that if I saved a little
every week--I'd manage it--if I didn't die or lose my work."

"Don't, Christine--please don't!  Oh, Christine!"

"If I lost my work--Mr. Percy is very kind.  He is an old friend and knows the position.  But
he has his business to consider.  I'm not quick--my eyes aren't strong.  There are younger,
cleverer people.  We've got to look things in the face, Robert.  If I lost my work there would
be nothing between us and the workhouse--nothing--nothing--nothing."

He was shivering as if with bitter cold.  His teeth chattered in his head. He caught a ghost-like
glimpse of a boy in the glass opposite--a strange, unfamiliar figure with a white, tear-stained
face and haggard eyes and fair hair all on end.

"Oh, Christine--I'm frightened!"

"You think money must come from somewhere.  Something will turn up.  That was what your father
used to say.  He was so hopeful.  It wasn't possible that it shouldn't turn up.  But I was
younger and stronger then--I can't begin again.--I can't--I can't.  If you're not good, Robert,
I can't go on."

"I will be good.  I won't tell lies.  I won't spend money ever again.  I won't love anyone
but you.  I won't be a doctor; I'll be something cheap--now."

He had forgotten the photographs.  He still held them in one tight-clenched hand.  But she
had seen them.  And all at once she braced herself although to meet an implacable enemy.  She
was not tender any more.  She was the Christine who had faced bailiffs and his father's strange,
gay friends--ice-cold and bitter and relentless.  She took the pictures from him.  With a terrible
ironic calm she sorted them from his pockets, and spread them out on the table like a pack
of cards.  He dared not look at her.  He was afraid to see what she was seeing.  She had torn
open the door of his secret chamber, and there in that blasting light was his treasure, naked,
defenceless.  He could have cried out in his dread, "Only don't say anything--don't say anything!"

"So that's what you liked so much, Robert--that's what you spent the money on.  It's the old
story--beginning again--only worse."  She added, almost to herself:

"A vulgar, common woman."

She put her face between her hands.  He could hear her quiet crying.  It was awful.  His love
for her was a torture.  Because she was not wonderful at all but human and pitiful like himself,
he felt her grief like a knife turning and turning in his own heart.  But he could not comfort
her.  He could only stare aghast at that row of faces--grinning, smirking, arrogant, insolent
faces.

It was true.  The jolly lights had been turned out.  The band had stopped playing.

A vulgar, common woman!

      *      *      *      *      *

He stood with his back to the Circus entrance where he could smell the sawdust and hear the
hum of the audience crowding into their seats.  The invisible band gave funny noises like a
man clearing his throat.  There was still a number of people coming in--some strolling idly,
others pulled along by their excited charges.  It was queer, Robert thought, that they should
be excited.  The smell of the sawdust made him feel rather sick.

He gave out his last handbill.  Nobody noticed him.  They took the slip of paper which he thrust
into their hands without looking at him.  He went and stood at the box-office where the big
man in riding boots was counting out his money.  It was a high box-office, so that Robert had
to stand on tip-toe to be seen.

"I've finished," he said.

The man glanced at him and then remembered.

"Oh, yes, you're the young feller.  Given 'em all out, eh?  Not thrown 'em on the rubbish heap?
Well, what is it?"

"I want my sixpence."

"Oh, sixpence I promised you, did I?  Well, here's a shilling seat. That'll do better, eh,
what?  You can go in now."

"I want my sixpence."

"You don't want--don't want to go to the Circus?"

"I don't like Circuses."

The big man stared down at the white set face gazing stolidly back at him over the wooded ledge.
He tossed the coin indignantly across.

"Well, of all the unnatural, ungrateful young jackanapes----"

But he was so astonished that he had to lean out of his box and watch the blasphemer--a quaint
figure, bowed as though under a heavy burden, its hands thrust hard into its trousers pockets--stalk
away from the great tent and without so much as a backward glance lose itself among the crowd.

PART II

I

1

They came to an idle halt near Cleopatra's needle, and leaning against the Embankment wall,
looked across the river to the warehouses opposite, which, in the evening mist, had the look
of stark cliffs guarded by a solitary watchful lion.  The smaller of the two young men took
off his soft hat and set it beside him so that he could let the wind brush through his thick
red hair.  He held himself very straight, his slender body taut with solemn exultation.

"If only one could do something with it," he said; "eat it--hug it--get inside of it somehow--belong
to it.  It hurts--this gaping like an outsider.  Look now--one shade of purple upon another.
Isn't it unendurably beautiful? But if one could write a sonnet--or a sonata--or paint a picture----
That's where the real artist has the pull over us poor devils who can only feel things.  He
wouldn't just stand here.  He'd get out his fountain pen or his paint-box and make it all his
for ever and ever.  Think of Whistler now--what he would do with it."

"I can't," Stonehouse said.  "Who's Whistler?"

Cosgrave laughed in anticipation of his little joke.  "Nobody, old fellow.  At least, he never
discovered any bugs."

The wind snatched up his forgotten hat and it sailed off up river into the darkness like a
large unwieldy bird.  He looked after it ruefully.

"That was a new hat.  I'll have to go home without one, and the Pater will think I've been
in a drunken brawl, and there'll be a beastly row."

"That's the one thing he'll never believe.  Well, I don't care.  It'll be over soon.  If I've
passed that exam.  I'll get away and he won't be able to nag me any more.  And you, do think
I've passed, don't you, Stonehouse?"

"If you didn't imagine your answers afterwards."

"Honour bright, I didn't.  I believe I did a lot better, really.  You know, I'm so awfully
happy to-night I'd believe anything.  It's queer how this old river fits in with one's moods,
isn't it?  Last time we were here I wanted to drown myself, and there it was ready to hand,
as it were--offering eternal oblivion--and all that.  I thought of all the other fellows who
had drowned themselves, and felt no end cheered up. And now it makes me think of escape--of
getting away from everything--sailing to strange, new countries----"

"The last time you were here," Stonehouse said, "you'd just come out of the exam.  If you really
answered as you say you did, there was no reason for your wanting to drown yourself."

"But I did.  You're such a distrustful beggar.  You think I just imagine things.  No, I'll
tell you what it was--I didn't care.  There I was--I'd swotted and swotted.  I'd thought that
if only I could squeeze through I'd be the happiest man on earth.  And then, when it was all
over I began to think: 'What's it all for, what's it all about?  What's the good?' Suppose
I have passed, I'll get some beastly little job in some stuffy Government office, 200 pounds
a year, if I'm lucky.  And then if I'm good and not too bright they'll raise me to 250 pounds
in a couple of years' time, and so it'll go on--nothing but fug, and dinge, and skimping, and
planning--with a fortnight at the seaside once a year or a run over to Paris.  I suppose it
was good enough for our grandfathers, Stonehouse--this just keeping alive?  But it didn't seem
good enough to me.  Don't you feel like that sometimes--when you think of the time when you'll
be able to stick M.D., or whatever it is, after your name--as though, after all, it didn't
matter a brace of shakes?"

Robert Stonehouse roused himself from his lounging attitude and thrust his hands deep into
his trousers pockets.  There was a nip in the wind, and he had no overcoat.

"No.  When I've got through this next year I shall feel that I've climbed out of a black pit
and that the world's before me--to do what I like with."

"Well--you're different."  Cosgrave sighed, but not unhappily.  "You're going to do what you
want to do, and I expect you'll be great guns at it. I dare say if I were to play the piano
all day long--decently, you know, as I do sometimes, inside me at any rate--and get money for
it, I'd think it worth while----  But it takes a lot to make one feel that way about a Government
office."

His voice was quenched by a sudden rush of traffic--a tram that jangled and swayed, a purring
limousine full of vague, glittering figures, and a great belated lorry lumbering in pursuit
like an uncouth participant in some fantastic race.  They roared past and vanished, and into
the empty space of quiet there flowed back the undertones of the river, solitary footfalls,
the voice of the drowsing city.  The loneliness became something magical.  It changed the colour
of Cosgrave's thoughts.  He pressed closer to his companion, and, with his elbows on the balustrade
and his hands clenched in his hair, spoke in an awed whisper.

"It does seem worth while now.  That's what's so extraordinary.  I feel I can stick anything--even
being a Government clerk all my life.  I don't even seem to mind home like I did.  I'm in love.
That's what it is. You've never been in love, have you, Stonehouse?"

"No."

"You're such a cast-iron fellow.  I don't know how I have the nerve to tell you things.  Sometimes
I think you don't care a snap for anything in the world, except just getting on."

Robert Stonehouse hunched his shoulders against the wind.  There was more than physical discomfort
in the movement--a kind of secret distress and resentment.

"You do talk a lot of sentimental rubbish," he said.  "It seems to me it's only a hindrance--this
caring so much for people.  It gets in a man's way.  Not that it matters to you just now. 
You've got a slack time.  You can afford to fool around."

"You think I'm a milksop," Cosgrave said patiently, "I don't mind.  I dare say it's true. 
There's not much fight in me.  I don't seem able to do without people like you can.  I think,
sometimes, if I hadn't had you to back me up I'd never have been able to stick things.  Of
course, I'm not clever, either.  But you're wrong about being in love.  It doesn't get in one's
way.  It helps.  Everything seems different."

Stonehouse was silent, his fair, straight brows contracted.  When he spoke at last it was dispassionately
and impersonally, as one giving a considered judgment.  But his voice was rather absurdly young.

"You may be right.  I hadn't thought about it before.  It didn't seem important enough.  There
was a woman I knew when I was a kid--a common creature--who was fond of saying that 'it was
love that made the world go round.'  (My father married her for her money, which didn't go
round at all.)  Still, in her way, she was stating a kind of biological fact.  If people without
much hold on life didn't fall in love they'd become extinct.  They wouldn't have the guts to
push on or the cheek to perpetuate themselves.  But they do fall in love, and I suppose, as
you say, things seem different.  They seem different--worth while.  So they marry and have
children, which seems worth while too--different from other people's children, at any rate,
or they wouldn't be able to bear the sight of them.  What you call love is just a sort of trick
played on you.  If crowds are of any use I suppose it's justified.  It's a big 'if,' though."

Cosgrave smiled into the dark.

"It sounds perfectly beastly.  Not a bit encouraging.  But I don't care, somehow.  Do you mind
if I tell you about her?  I've got to talk to somebody."

"I don't mind.  But I don't want to stand here any longer.  It's cold, and, besides, I've got
to be up west by six."

They turned and strolled on toward Westminster.  Robert Stonehouse still kept his hands thrust
into his pockets, and the position, gave his heavy-shouldered figure a hunched fighting look,
as though he had set himself to stride out against a tearing storm.  He took no notice of Cosgrave,
who talked on rapidly, stammering a little and scrambling for his words.  The wind blew his
hair on end, and he walked with his small wistful nose lifted to the invisible stars.

"You see, I can't tell anyone at home about her.  It's not as though she were even what people
call a lady.  (Oh, I'm perfectly sane--I don't humbug myself.)  Mother'd have a fit, and the
Pater only looks at that kind of thing in one way--his own particularly disgusting way.  She
drops her aitches sometimes.  But she's good, and she's pretty as a flower.  I met her at a
dance club.  I'd never been to such a place before.  And then one evening it suddenly came
over me that I wanted to be among a lot of people who were having a good time.  So I plunged.
You pay sixpence, you know, and everybody dances with everybody.  Of course I can't dance.
She saw me hanging round and looking glum, I suppose, and she was nice to me.  She taught me
a few steps, and I told her about the exam, and how worried I was about it, and we became friends.
I've never had a girl-friend before.  It's amazing.  And she's different, anyway---- She's
on the stage--in the chorus to begin with--but you'd think they'd given her a lead, she's so
happy about it.  That's what I love about her. Everything seems jolly to her.  She enjoys things
like a kid--a 'bus ride, a cinema, our little suppers together.  She loves just being alive,
you know.  It's extraordinary--I say, are you listening, Stonehouse?"

"I didn't know you wanted me to listen.  I thought you wanted to talk.  I was thinking of an
operation I saw once--you wouldn't understand--it was a ticklish job, and the man lost his
head.  He tried to hide it, but I knew, and he saw I knew.  A man like that oughtn't to operate."

"And did the other fellow die?"

"Oh, yes.  But he would have died anyway, probably.  It wasn't that that mattered.  It was
losing his nerve like that."

"If I saw an operation," Cosgrave said humbly, "I should be sick."

Stonehouse had not heard.  They reached the bridge in silence, and under a street lamp stopped
to take leave of one another.  It was their customary walk and the customary ending, and each
wondered in his different way how it was that they should always want to meet and to talk to
one another of things that only one of them could understand.

"Why does he bother with me?" Cosgrave thought.

But he was sorry for Robert, partly because he guessed that he was hungry and partly because
he knew that he was not in love.

"I wish you'd come along too," he said a little breathlessly; "I want you to meet her, you
know--for us all to be friends together--just a quiet supper--and my treat, of course."

It was very transparent.  He tried to look up at his companion boldly and innocently.  But
the light from the street lamp fell into his strange blue eyes, with their look of young and
anxious hopefulness, and made them blink.  Robert Stonehouse laughed.  He knew what was in
Cosgrave's mind, and it seemed to him half comic and half pathetic and rather irritating.

"I don't suppose you have enough to pay for supper, anyway," he said roughly, "or you'll go
without your lunch to-morrow.  Don't be an idiot. Look after yourself and I'll look after myself.
Besides, if you think I'm not going to have a square meal to-night you're enormously mistaken.
I'm going to dine well--where you'll never Set your foot, not until you're earning more than
250 pounds a year, at any rate."

"Word of honour?"

"Oh, word of honour, of course."

A shy relief came into the pinched and freckled face.

"Oh, well then--but I do want you to meet all the same; you see, she'd like it--she knows all
about you.  I'm always bragging about you. Perhaps I could bring her round--if Miss Forsyth
wouldn't mind--if she's well enough."

Robert Stonehouse half turned away, as though shrinking from an unwelcome, painful touch.

"She's all right."

"Then may we come?  I'm not afraid of Miss Forsyth.  She's an understanding person.  She won't
think people common because of their aitches.  Give her my love, won't you, Robert.  And good
night."

"Oh, good night!"  He added quickly, sullenly: "You look blue with cold. Why don't you wear
a decent coat?  It's idiotic!"

"Because my coat isn't decent.  I don't want her to see me shabby.  And I like to pretend I'm
rather a strong, dashing fellow who doesn't mind things.  Besides, look at yourself!"

"I'm different."

"You needn't rub it in."  He was gay now with an expectation that bubbled up in him like a
fountain.  He made as though to salute Robert solemnly and then remembered and clutched at
his wind-blown hair instead.  "Oh, my hat!  Well, it will make Connie laugh like anything!"
he said.

2

To be a habitue of Brown's was to prove yourself a person of some means and solid discrimination.
At Brown's you could get cuts from the joint, a porter-house steak, apple tart, and a good
boiled pudding as nowhere else in the world.  You went in through the swinging doors an ordinary
and fallible human being, and you came out feeling you had been fed on the very stuff which
made the Empire.  You were slightly stupefied, but you were also superbly, magnificently unbeatable.

Mr. Brown was an Englishman.  But he did not glory in the fact.  It was, as he had explained
to Robert one night, his kindly, serious face glowing in the reflection from the grill, a tragedy.

"To be born an Englishman and a cook--it's like being born a bird without wings.  You can't
soar--not however hard you try--not above roasts and boils.  Take vegetables.  An Englishman
natur'lly boils.  And it's no good going against nature.  You're a doctor--or going to be--and
you know that.  You've got to do the best you can, but you can't do more.  That's my motto.
But if I'd been born a Frenchman----  Well it's no use dreaming.  If them potatoes are ready,
Jim, so'm I."

Mr. Brown had taken a fancy to Robert Stonehouse from the moment that the latter had challenged
him on the very threshold of his kitchen and explained, coolly and simply, his needs and his
intentions.  Mr. Brown was frankly a Romantic, and Robert made up to him for the souffles and
other culinary adventures which Fate had denied him.  He liked to dream himself into Robert's
future.

"One of these days I'll be pointing you out to my special customers--'Yes, sir, that's Sir
Robert himself.  Comes here every Saturday night for old times' sake.  Used to work here with
me--waited with his own hands, sir--for two square meals and ten per cent. of his tips.  You
don't get young men like that these days--no, sir."

Robert accepted his prophetic vision gravely.  It was what he meant to happen, and it did not
seem to him to be amusing.

Brown's was tucked away in a quiet West End side street, and there was only one entrance. 
At six o'clock the tables were still empty, and Robert walked through into the employees' dressing-room.
He put on his white jacket, slightly stained with iodoform, and a black apron which concealed
his unprofessional grey trousers, and went to work in the pantry, laying out plates and dishes
in proper order, after the manner of a general marshalling his troops for action.  He was deft
handed, and responsible for fewer breakages than any of the old-timers--foreigners for the
most--who flitted up and down the passages with the look of bats startled from their belfries
and only half awake.  Through an open, glass window he could see into the huge kitchen, where
Mr. Brown brooded over his oven, and catch rich, sensuous odours that went to his head like
so many etherealized cocktails.  He had not eaten since the morning, and though he was too
strong to faint, it grew increasingly difficult to fix his mind on the examination question
which he had set himself.  He found himself wondering instead, what would happen if old Brown
lost his flair for the psychological moment in roasts, and why it was that a man who had performed
an operation successfully a hundred times should suddenly go to pieces over it?  What made
him lose faith in himself? Nerves?  A matter of the liver?  We were only at the beginning of
our investigations.  And then poor little Cosgrave, who as suddenly began to believe in himself
and in life generally because he had fallen in love with a chorus girl!

The head waiter looked round the pantry door.  He was a passionate Socialist who, in his spare
time, preached the extermination of all such as did not work for their daily bread.  But he
disliked Robert bitterly, as a species of bourgeois blackleg.

"You're wanted.  There's a party of ten just come in.  Hurry up, can't yer?"

Robert put down his plates and went into the dining-room with the wine list.  His table-napkin
he carried neatly folded over one arm.

And there was Francey Wilmot.

She had other people with her, but he saw her first.  He could not have mistaken her.  Of course,
she had changed.  She was taller, for one thing, and wore evening dress instead of the plain
brown frock that he remembered.  But her thick hair had always been short, and now it was done
up it did not seem much shorter.  And it still had that quaint air of being brushed up from
her head by a secret, rushing wind--of wanting to fly away with her.  She was burnt, too, with
an alien sun and wind. Her face and neck were a golden brown, and in reckless contrast with
her white shoulders.  One saw how little she cared.  She sat with her elbows on the table,
and the sight of the supple hands and strong, slender wrists stopped Robert Stonehouse short,
as though a deep, old wound which had not troubled him for years had suddenly begun to hurt
again.  And yet how happy he had been, as a little boy, when she had just touched him.

It was evidently a celebration in her honour.  A tall young man with side whiskers who came
in late presented her with a bunch of roses in the name of the whole company and with a gay,
exaggerated homage.  They were a jolly crowd.  They had in common their youth and an appearance
of good-natured disregard for the things that ordinary people cared about. Otherwise they were
of all sorts and conditions, like their clothes.  Two or three were in evening dress, and one
girl who sat at the end of the table and smoked incessantly wore a shabby coat and skirt and
a raffish billycock hat.  Chelsea or the University Schools was stamped on all of them.  There
wasn't much that they didn't know, and there was very little that they believed in--not even
themselves.  For they were of the very newest type, and would have scorned to admit to a Purpose
or a Faith. But they could not help being young and rather liking one another, and the good
food and the promise of a riotous evening.

Robert knew their kind.  He even knew by sight the side-whiskered young man who now clapped
his hands like an Eastern potentate.  He had been of Robert's year at the University, and had
been ploughed twice.

"Wine-ho!  Fellow creatures, what is it to be?  In honour of the occasion and to show our contempt
of circumstances, shall we say a magnum of Heidsieck?  All in favour wave their paws----"

The girl in the billycock hat blew a great puff of smoke towards him.

"Oh, death and damnation, Howard!  Haven't I been explaining to you all the afternoon that
I owe rent for a fortnight to a devil in female form, and that unless someone buys 'A Sunset
over the Surrey Cliffs seen Upside Down,' Gerty will be on the streets?  Make it beer with
a dash o' bitters."

Finally it was Francey who decided.  She beckoned, not looking at him, and Robert with a little
obsequious bow, handed her the wine card and waited at her elbow.  He was not afraid of Howard's
recognition.  They had never spoken to one another, and in any case Howard would not believe
his eyes.

It was strange to stand near to her again and to recognize the little things about her that
had fascinated small Robert Stonehouse--the line of her neck, the brown mole at the corner
of her eye which people were always trying to rub off, the way her hair curled up from her
temples in two unmistakable horns.  He had teased her about them in his shy, clumsy way.  A
very subtle and sweet warmth emanated from her like a breath.  It took him back to the day
when he had huddled close to her, hiccoughing with grief and anger, and yet deeply, deliriously
happy because she was sorry for him.  It made him giddy with a sense of unreality, as though
the present and the intervening years were only part of one of his night stories, which, after
their tiresome, undeviating custom, had got tangled up in a monstrous, impossible dream.  And
then a new fancy took possession of him.  He wanted to bend closer to her and say, very quietly,
as though he were suggesting an order, "What about your handkerchief?  Do you want it back,
Francey?"

Amidst his austerely disciplined thoughts the impulse was like a mad, freakish intruder, and
it frightened him, so that he drew back sharply.

"Cider-cup," she said.  "It's my feast--and I like seeing the fruit and pretending I can taste
it.  And then Howard won't get drunk and recite poetry.  Three orders, waiter."

He took the wine card, but she held it a moment longer, as though something had suddenly attracted
her attention.  Their hands had almost touched.

"Yes--three orders will be enough."

The company groaned, but submitted.  In reality they were too stimulated already by an invisible,
exuberant spirit among them to care much.  From where he waited for Francey's order on the
threshold of the pantry Robert could see and hear them.  It was really the old days over again.
Fundamentally things outside himself did not change much.  The Brothers Banditti had grown
up.  They were not nice children any more.  The innocent building-ground and nefarious plottings
against unpopular authority had given place to restaurants and more subtle wickednesses. But
still Francey played her queer, elusive role among them.  She was of them--and yet she stood
a little apart, a little on one side.  Probably Howard thought himself their real leader. 
They did not talk to her directly very much, nor she to them.  But all the time they were playing
up to her, trying to draw her attention to themselves and make her laugh with them.  She did
laugh.  It did not seem to matter to her at all that they were often crude and blatant and
sometimes common in their self-expression.  She laughed from her heart.  But her laughter was
a little different.  It sat by itself, an elfish thing, with a touch of seriousness about it,
its arms hugging its knees, and looked beyond them all and saw how much bigger and finer the
joke was than they thought it. She was the spirit of their good humour.  They could not have
done without her.

And he, Robert Stonehouse, stood outside the circle, as in reality he had always done.  But
now he did not want to belong.  He knew now how it hindered men to run with the herd--even
to have friends.  It wasted time and strength.  And these people were no good anyhow.  Howard
was one of these dissipated duffers who later on would settle down as a miraculously respectable
and incapable G.P.  The rest were vague, rattle-brained eccentrics who would fizzle out, no
one would know how or care.

Only Francey----  But even in the old days it was only because of Francey that the Banditti
had meant anything to him.

The head waiter pushed across the counter a jug of yellowish liquid in which floated orange
peel and a few tinned, dubious-looking cherries.

"Take it, for God's sake!  People who want muck like that ought to keep to Soho."

Robert poured out with an eye trained to accurate measurements in the laboratory.  It was his
practice to do well everything that he had to do. Otherwise you lost tone--you weakened your
own fibre so that when the big thing came along you slumped.  But he could not forget Francey
Wilmot's nearness.  It did not surprise him any more.  But it charged him with unrest, and
he and his unrest frightened him.  He knew how to master ordinary emotion.  Even when he carried
off the Franklin Scholarship in the teeth of a brilliant opposition he had not allowed himself
a moment's triumph.  It was all in the day's work--a single step on the road which he had mapped
out deliberately.  But this was outside his experience.  It had pounced on him from nowhere,
shaking him.

He had to look up at her again.  And then he saw that she was looking at him too, steadily,
with a deep, inquiring kindness.

It was as though she had said aloud:

"Are you really a good little boy, Robert?"

The cider poured over the edge of the glass and over the table-cloth and in a dismal stream
on to the lap of the girl with the raffish billycock hat.

"Well, that settles that," she said good-humouredly.  "My only skirt, friends.  She can't turn
me out in my petticoat, can she?  Oh, leave it alone, garcong; it doesn't matter a tinker's
curse----"

He could not help it.  In the midst of his angry confusion he still had to seek out her verdict
on him--just as Robert Stonehouse had always done when he had been peculiarly heroic or unfortunate.
And there it was, dancing beneath her gravity, her unforgotten, magic laughter.

At half-past ten Brown's cleared its last table.  Robert Stonehouse rolled down his sleeves,
picked up the parcel which had been placed ready for him on the pantry counter, said good-night
to the head waiter, who did not answer, and with his coat-collar turned up about his ears went
out in the street.  It was quiet as a country lane and empty except for the girl who waited
beyond the lamp light.  He knew her instantly, and in turn two sensations that were equally
foreign and unfamiliar seized him. The first was sheer panic, and the second was a sense of
inevitability. The second was the oddest of the two, because he did not believe in Fate, but
he did believe in his own will.

It was his own will, therefore, that made him walk steadily and indifferently towards her.
His head bent as though he did not see her. It was really the wind in her hair now.  It caught
the ends of her long, loose coat and carried them out behind her.  Her slender feet moved uncertainly
in the circle of lamp-light.  Any moment they might break into one of the quaint little dances.
Or the wind might carry her off altogether in a mysterious gust down the street and out of
sight.  It was like his vision of her that evening in Acacia Grove.  It made him feel more
and more unreal and frightened of himself.

He was almost past her when he spoke.

"Robert Stonehouse," she said rather authoritatively, as though she expected him to run away;
"Robert Stonehouse----"

He stopped short with his heart beating in his throat.  But he did not take the hand that she
held out to him.  He could only stare at her, frowning in his distress, and she asked: "You
do know who I am, don't you?"

"Yes.  Francey--Francey Wilmot--Miss Wilmot."  He forced himself to stop stammering, and added
stiffly: "I did not know you had recognized me."

"Didn't you?  I thought----  Well, I did recognize you anyhow.  I was so astonished at first
that I thought it was a sort of materialization. But you were absurdly the same.  And then
when you poured the cider out on to poor Gerty's skirt----"

"Was that one of my childish customs?" he asked.  "I'd forgotten."

"I nearly stood up and shook hands."

"I'm glad you didn't."

"I thought you'd feel like that.  I remembered that you had been rather a touchy little boy----"

"I was thinking of your friends.  Howard, for instance."

"Why, do you know Howard?"

"By sight."

"If you've never even spoken to him you can't, of course, tell what he would have felt.  Do
you mind walking home with me?  I don't live far from here, and we can talk better."

He held his ground, obstinate and defiant.  It was unjust that anyone, knowing himself to be
brilliantly clever, should yet be made an oaf by an incident so trivial.

"I'm sorry.  I don't see what we can have to talk about.  I'm not keen on childish recollections.
I haven't time for them.  And it's fairly obvious we don't move in the same set and are not
likely to meet again." He burst out rudely.  "I suppose you were just curious----"

"Of course.  You'd be curious if you found me selling flowers in Piccadilly.  You'd come up
and say: 'allo!  Francey, what have you been doing with yourself?'  And you'd have tried to
give me a leg up, if it only ran to buying a gardenia for old times' sake."

He suspected her of poking fun at him.  And yet there was that subtle underlying seriousness
about her and a frank, disarming kindliness.

"You think I'm down on my luck," he retorted, "and so anybody has a right to butt in."

"Not a right.  Of course, if I'd met you in Bond Street, all sleek and polished, I shouldn't
have dreamed of butting in.  I should have said to myself, 'Well, that's the end of the little
Robert Stonehouse saga as far as I'm concerned,' and I don't suppose I should ever have thought
of you again.  But now I shall have to go on thinking--and wondering what happened--and worrying."
She drew her cloak closer about her like a bird folding its wings, and added prosaically: "I
say, don't you find it rather cold standing about here?"

He turned with her and walked on sullenly, his head down to the wind.  He thought: "I shall
tell her nothing at all."  But to his astonishment she was silent, and finally he had to speak
himself.

"I'm afraid this silly business has broken up your party.  Or was it getting too lively for
you?  Howard's beanos used to have a considerable reputation."

"He often seems drunk when he isn't," she returned tranquilly.  "I think it's because he enjoys
things more than most people are able to.  It wasn't that.  I wanted to see you so much, and
I knew Brown's would be closing about now.  So I sent them to a theatre.  It seemed the safest
place."

"And they went like lambs.  But, then, the Banditti always did."

"Oh, the Banditti!"  He guessed that she was smiling to herself.  "The Banditti wouldn't have
grown up like that.  They were much too nice--never quite really wicked, were they?  Just carried
off their feet. Still, they were never quite the same after you left.  I think they always
hankered a little after the good old days when they rang door-hells and chivied their governesses.
Probably they will never be so happy again."

"They had you.  It was you they really cared about.  Everybody did what you liked."

"You didn't."

"I did--in the end."

It was odd that they should be both thinking of that last encounter and that they should speak
of it so guardedly, as though it were still a delicate matter.

"I didn't know you were never coming again.  I waited for you in the afternoon--for weeks and
weeks."

"Did you?"  He looked at her quickly, taken off his guard, and then away again with a scornful
laugh.  "Oh, I don't believe it.  You knew I wasn't nice--not your sort.  You're just making
it up."

"I wonder why you say that?" she asked dispassionately.  "It's cheap and stupid.  You're not
really stupid and you weren't cheap, even if you weren't nice.  And you know that I don't tell
lies."

For a moment he was too startled and too ashamed to answer.  Cheap.  That was just the word
for it.  The sort of thing that common young men said to their common young women.  And, of
course, he did know.  Her integrity was a thing you felt.  But he could never bring himself
to tell her that he had been afraid to believe too easily, or that he did not want to have
to remember her afterwards, waiting there day by day, in their deserted playground.  It troubled
him already, like a vague, indefinite pain.

He did not even apologize.

"I suppose I should have come back sooner or later.  But I didn't have the chance.  My father
died that night--unexpectedly."  He brushed aside her low interjection.

"Oh, I was jolly glad.  But after that we had to clear out.  There was no money at all."

"But you lived in a big house.  Your father was a great doctor."

"I was a great liar," he retorted impatiently.  "I suppose I wanted to impress you.  Perhaps
he was a great doctor.  Anyhow, he never did any work.  There was a bailiff in the house when
he died and a pile of bills. And not much else."

"What happened, then?  Did you go with your stepmother?  I remember how you hated her!  You
wouldn't admit that she was a mother of any sort."

"No.  I don't know what became of her.  I never saw her again after that night.  I think she
went to live with her own people.  Christine took care of me."

"I don't remember Christine.  I don't think you ever told me about her."

"I wouldn't have known how to explain.  I don't know now.  She was a sort of friend--my father's
and mother's friend.  There was an understanding between her and my mother--a promise--I don't
know what.  So she took me away with her.  Not that she had any money, either.  We went to
live in two rooms in the suburbs, and she worked for us both.  She had never worked before--not
for money--and she wasn't young.  But she did it."

"A great sort of friend.   And she came through too----?"

He did not answer at once, and he felt her look at him quickly, anxiously, as though she had
felt him shrink back into himself.  She heard something in his silence that he did not want
her to hear.  He put his head down to the wind again, hiding a white, hard face.

"Oh, yes, and we still live in two rooms--over a garage in Drayton Mews. My room 'folds up'
in the day-time, and she sits there and knits woollen things for the shops.  She has to take
life easily now.  She had an illness, and her eyes trouble her.  But she's better--much better.
And next year everything will be different."

The street had run out into the still shadows of a great dim square.  For a moment they hesitated
like travellers on the verge of unknown country; then Francey crossed over to the iron-palinged
garden and they walked on side by side under the trees that rattled their grimy, fleshless
limbs in an eerie dance.  There was no one else stirring.  The eyes of the stately Georgian
houses were already closed in the weariness of their sad old age.

But she asked no questions.  She seemed to have drifted away from him on a secret journey of
her own.  He had to draw her back--make her realize----

"I shall be a doctor then," he said challengingly.

"You said you would be a doctor.  We quarrelled about it."

"How you remember things----"

"You were such a strange little boy.  Besides, you remember them too."

"That's different.  I've never had anyone else----"  He caught himself up.  "I suppose you
think I'm still bragging?"

"You never bragged.  You always did what you said you were going to do--even stupid things,
like climbing that old wall."

So she had seen him, after all.  She had watched--perhaps a little frightened for him, a little
impressed by his reckless daring.

"Oh, well, I admit it didn't seem likely.  People think you have to have a lot of money.  We've
often laughed about it.  For we hadn't anything except what we saved from week to week.  And
yet we've done it.  You can do anything so long as you don't mind what you do.  It depends
on the stuff you're made of."

He threw his head up and walked freely, with open shoulders.  After all, he was proud of those
years, and had a right to be.  They had tested every inch of him, and it would have been stupid
to pretend that he did not know his own mettle.  He heard his footsteps ring out through the
fitful whimpering of the wind and they seemed to mark the rhythm of his life--a steady, resolute
progression.  The lighter fall of Francey Wilmot's feet beside him was like an echo.  But yet
it had its own quality.  Not less resolute.

He heard her say quickly, almost to herself:

"It must have been hard going--but awfully worth while.  An adventure.  I can't be sorry for
anyone who suffers on an adventure--any sort of adventure--even if it's only in oneself."

She was more moved than he could understand.  But the wind, dashed with ice-cold rain, blew
them closer to one another.  He could feel the warmth of her arm against his.  It was difficult
to seem prosaic and casual.

"That's just it.  Worth while.  Why do people want 'chances' and 'equality' and things made
smooth for them?  What's the use of anything if there isn't a top and a bottom to it?  What's
the use of having enough to eat if you haven't been hungry?  I'm going to be a doctor, and
I might have slumped into the gutter.  I'm jolly glad there is a gutter to slump into----"
He broke off, and then went on more deliberately. "Christine and I mapped it out one night
when I was ten years old.  After school hours I used to run errands and sell newspapers.  On
half-holidays I went down into the West End and hunted taxis for people coming out of theatres.
I took my exams and scholarship one after the other.  We counted on that.  I kept on earning
in one way or another all through my first M.B. and during the two years I've walked the Wards.
Now I've had to drop out for a bit to make enough to carry through my finals. Christine's illness
was the only thing we hadn't reckoned with."

Her voice had an odd, troubling huskiness.

"You must be frightfully strong.  But then you always were.  You used to beat everyone----"

"I'm like that now.  I've got a dozen lives--like a cat.  And one life doesn't know what the
other one's doing."  He laughed.  "Before breakfast I wash down the car of the man who owns
our garage.  The rest of the morning I coach fellows for the Matric.  In the afternoon I swot
for myself.  You see how I spend my evenings.  Brown's been very decent to me.  I get part
of my tips and two meals--one for myself and one to take home."  He showed her the parcel that
he carried.  "Cold chicken and rice mould," he said carelessly.  "We couldn't afford that."

He did not tell her that there had been times when, to keep their compact, they had gone without
altogether, when Christine had fainted over her typewriter and he had watched her from out
of a horrible, quivering mist--too sick with hunger to help, or even to care much.  He did
not want Francey to be sorry for him.

"And the tips?" she asked, with grave concern.  "I hope we played the game.  But poor old Howard
is always so hard up----"

"Oh, good enough.  Usually I get more than the others, and they hate me for it.  I'm quicker
and I've got clean hands.  People like that."

"I saw your hands first," Francey said, "and I knew at once that you were something different."

It was too dark for her to see his face.  Yet he turned away hastily.  He spoke as though he
did not care at all.

"Brown's a smart fellow.  He knows what's coming, and what people are worth to him.  We've
got an agreement that when I'm Sir Robert I'm to boost the old place and do his operations
free.  I think he'll be rather sick if he doesn't need any."

It was half a joke, but if she had laughed--laughed in the wrong way--the chances were that
he would have turned on his heel and left her without so much as a good-night.  For he was
strung up to an abnormal, cruel sensitiveness.  Whatever else they did, people did not laugh
at him.  He had never given them the chance that he had given her.  He had learnt to be silent,
and now she had made him talk and the result had been an uncouth failure.  He had thrown his
hardships at her like a parvenu his riches.  If she did not see through his crudeness to what
was real in him, she could only see that he was a rather funny young man who swaggered outrageously.
And that was not to be endured.

But she did not laugh at all.

"You're sure of yourself, Robert."

"Yes--I am."

"I'm sure of myself, too.  Because I'm sure of things outside myself."

He did not try to understand her.  He was wrestling with the expression of his own experiences.
He threw out his free hand and turned it and closed the powerful, slender fingers, as though
he were moulding some invisible substance.

"Outside things are colourless and lifeless--sort of plastic stuff--until we get hold of them.
We twist them to the best shapes we can.  Nothing happens to us that isn't exactly like ourselves.
Even what people call accidents.  Even a man's diseases.  I've seen that in the Wards.  People
die as they live, and they live as they are----"

And now she did laugh, throwing back her head, and he laughed with her, shyly but not resentfully.
It was as though a crisis in their relationship had been passed.  He could trust her to understand.
And he knew that though what he had said was true, it had also sounded young and sententious.

"You think I'm talking rot, don't you?"

"I only think you've changed," she answered, with a quick gravity.  "Not outside.  Outside
you're just a few feet bigger and the round lines have become straight.  But when you were
a little boy you used to cry a good deal."

"I don't see--how did you know?"

"I did know.  There were certain smears--I don't think you liked having your face washed--and
a red, tired, look under the eyes.  The point is that now I can't imagine your ever having
cried at all."

"I haven't."  He calculated solemnly.  "Not for more than twelve years. I remember, because
it was after I had played truant at the circus."

But he did not want to tell her about the circus.  He stopped short and looked at his watch
in the lamplight.

"Nearly twelve.  We've been prowling round this place for an hour.  I've got to get home and
work.  I thought you said you lived near here."

"I do.  Over the way.  The big house.  I've two rooms on the top floor. Rather jolly--and near
St. Mary's----"

"What--what do you want with St. Mary's?"

But she had already begun to cross the road, and the wind, coming down a side street with a
shriek, sent her scudding before it like a leaf.  She was half-way up the grey stone steps
before he overtook her.  She turned on him, the short ends of her hair flying wickedly.

"Of course, it's only right and natural that you should talk of nothing but yourself."

He stammered breathlessly.

"I didn't think--I'm sorry----"

"Do you suppose you're the only person who does what they say they're going to do?"

"What--not--not a doctor, Francey?"

"Not yet.  I'm two years behind you.  This will be my first year in the Wards.  Next year you
will be full-blown--perhaps on the staff--and I shall have to trot behind you and believe everything
you say."  She smiled rather gravely.  "You will have got the big stick, after all."

He looked up at her, holding on to the spiked railing that guarded the yawning area.  But he
had a queer feeling that he had let go of everything else that he had held fast to--that he
was gliding down-bill in a reckless abandonment to an unknown feeling.  He knew too little
of emotion to know that he was happy.

"Why--I shall be there too.  I'll be on a surgical post--dresser for old Rogers.  And he's
going to take me on his private rounds."

It was not what he had meant to say.  He had meant to say, "We shall see each other."  Perhaps
she guessed.  Her hand rested on his, warm and strong and kind, as though nothing had changed
at all.  Because they were grown up she did not hold back in a conventional reserve.  If only
he could have cried she would have sat down on the steps beside him, and put her arm about
him, and comforted him.

"And I want to meet Christine," she said.

He nodded.

"Rather."

"And it's been fine--our meeting again.  But didn't you always know it would happen?"

"I believe I did.  Yes, I did.  I used to imagine----"

And then he knew and saw that she knew too.  He saw it in the sudden darkening of her steady
eyes, in the perplexity of her drawn brows.  He felt it in her hand that scarcely moved, as
though even now it would not shrink from whatever was the truth.  It came and went like a flare
of fire across the storm.  And when it had gone, they could not believe that it had ever been.
They were both shaken with astonishment.  And yet, hadn't they always known?

"Good-night, Robert Stonehouse."

"Good-night."

But he could not move.  He watched the blank door open, and her slender shadow stand out for
a moment against the yellow gas-light of the hall. She did not look back.  Perhaps she too
was spell-bound.  The door closed with an odd sound as though the house had clicked its tongue
in good-natured amusement.

"Now you see how it happens, Robert Stonehouse!"

At any rate, the spell was broken.  Hugging his parcel dangerously close he raced back to the
shelter of the trees and waited.  High over head the house opened a bright eye at him.  He
waved back at it with an absurd, incredible boyishness.

Then he walked on deliberately, firmly.

What was it he had to set his mind on?

Of course.  That question of therapeutics----

II

1

"I don't understand it," Christine said.  "It seems to me better than anything you've ever
read to me."

She counted her stitches for the second time, and looked up at the sun that showed its face
over the stable roof opposite, as though at a lamp which did not burn as well as it used to
do.  In the dusty golden light she was like a figure in a tapestry.  Perhaps in its early days
it had been a trifle crude, a trifle harsh in colour, but now worn and threadbare, trembling
on decay, it had attained a rare and exquisite beauty.

She smiled back blindly into the little room.

"Don't you think so, Robert?"

Mr. Ricardo also looked at Robert, eagerly, pathetically.

"It was to gain your opinion--reinforce my own judgment--solely for that purpose--difficult
to obtain, the impartial opinion of a trained mind----"

He had grown into a habit of talking like that--in broken disjointed sentences, which only
Robert and Christine who knew his thoughts could understand.  And now, in the midst of his
scattered manuscript he waited, rubbing his shiny knees with his thin, grey, not very clean hands.

But Robert looked at Francey.  He had sat all the time with his arms crossed on the oil-clothed
table and looked at her, frankly and unconsciously as a savage or a street boy might have done.
He was too tired to care.  He had come straight from giving the limousine underneath an extra
washing down for the Whitsun holidays and oil still lingered in his nails, and there was a
faint forgotten smear of it on his cheek, and another near the thick upstanding hair where
he had rubbed his hand across.  They came as almost humorous relief in a face in which there
were things ten years too old--the harsh and bony structure showing where there should have
been a round boyishness, and the full mouth set in a fierce, relentless negation of itself.
But the oil smears and the eyes that shone out from under the fair overhanging brows were again
almost too young.  They made the strength pathetic.

He, too, sat in the sunlight, which was not kind to his green, threadbare clothes.  But the
sun only came into the stable yard for an hour or two, and as it withdrew itself slowly along
the length of the table he shifted his position to move with it, unconsciously, like a tired
animal.  Francey, cross-legged and smoking, on the couch which at night unfolded itself into
a bed, saw the movement and smiled at him. Her eyes were as steady in their serenity as his
were steady with hunger.  She did not change colour, so that whatever she understood from that
long scrutiny did not trouble her.  He leant forward, as though he were afraid of missing some
subtle half-tone in her voice.

"Mr. Ricardo thinks I'm unprejudiced.  He's forgotten the times when he pulled my ears and
smacked my head.  But you are different, Francey. You can say what you think."

"But it wouldn't be at all helpful," she answered very solemnly.  "To begin with, I have the
scientific mind, and I cannot accept as a basis of argument an entirely untested hypothesis."

Connie Edwards thereupon gave vent to an artificial groan of anguish, followed by an explosive
giggle which would have lost her her half of Rufus Cosgrave's chair had he not put his arm
round her.  There were only three chairs in the room, and as two of them had been already occupied
when she and her companion had, as she expressed it, "blown in" half an hour previously, they
had perched together, listening with clasped hands and an air of insincere solemnity.  For
Mr. Ricardo had not stopped reading.  He had gone on as though he had not heard their boisterous
entry, and even now would have seemed unaware of their existence but for something bitter and
antagonistic in the hunch of his thin shoulders.  His dark, biting eyes avoided them like those
of a sullen child who does not want to see.  But Miss Edwards appeared to be not easily depressed.
She waved her hand in friendly thanks for the cigarette case which Francey tossed across to
her, and, having selected her cigarette with blunt, viciously manicured fingers, poked Cosgrave
for a match.

"Gawd Almighty, and Little Connie K.O.'ed in the first round by an untested hypo--hypo----
What was it, Ruffles dear?  (Oh, do stop squeezing my hand!  This isn't the pictures, and it's
a match I want--not love.)  An untested hypothesis.  Thank you, dearie.  I wonder if He's feeling
as sore about it as I am?"

She gurgled over her cigarette, and Cosgrave smiled at everyone in turn, as though he had said
aloud, "Isn't she a splendid joke?"  He looked almost mystically happy.

"Of such is the Kingdom of Heaven," Mr. Ricardo muttered.  "Mark it, mark it, Robert--the shallow
thinking, shallow jesting, shallow living----"

Miss Edwards winked at Francey, and Francey looked back at her with her understanding kindliness.
It seemed to Robert that ever since Connie Edwards had burst into the room Francey had changed.
The change was subtle and difficult to lay hold of, like Francey herself.  Mentally she was
always moving about, quietly, light-footedly, just as she had done among the bricks and rubble
of their old playground, peering thoughtfully at things which nobody else saw or looking at
them from some new point of view.  You couldn't be sure what they were or why they interested
her.  And now--he had almost seen her do it--she had shifted her position, come over to Connie
Edward's side, and was gazing over her shoulder, with her own brown head tilted a little on
one ear, and was saying in Connie's vernacular:

"Well, so that's how it looks to you?  And, I say, you're right.  It's a scream----"

In her mysterious way she had found something she liked in Connie Edwards, with her awful hat
and her outrageous, three-inch heels and her common prettiness.  Cosgrave obviously was crazy
about her.  He seemed to cling to her because she had an insatiable hunger for the things he
couldn't afford.  One could see that he had tried to model himself to her taste.  He wore a
gardenia and a spotted tie.  And, bearing these insignia of vulgarity, he looked more than
ever pathetic and over-delicate.

Cosgrave was an idiot who had lost his balance.  But Francey was another matter.  The Francey
who had asked "And are you a good little boy?" accepted Connie Edwards without question.  Because
it was ridiculous to be hurt about it Robert grew angry with her and frowned away from her,
and talked to Mr. Ricardo as though there were no one else in the room.

"I can't think why they didn't take it, sir.  It's fine stuff.  A shade too long for a magazine
article.  It may have been that, of course."

But Mr. Ricardo bent down and began to gather up his manuscript.  The paper was of all kinds
and sizes, covered with crabbed writing and fierce erasures.  It was oddly like himself--disordered,
a little desperate, not very clean.  When he had all the sheets together he sat with them hugged
against his breast and bent closer to Christine, speaking in a mysterious whisper.

"It's not that.  Robert knows it isn't, but he doesn't care any more. He'll say anything. 
But I know.  I've guessed it a long time.  People have found out.  They say to one another,
when I send in my papers, 'This man is a liar.  Every morning of his life he gives his assent
to lies.  And now he is going to teach the very lies he pretends to exterminate.  We can't
have anything to do with a man like that.'  And there's a conspiracy, Miss Christine, a conspiracy----"
His voice began to rise and tremble.  "They've taken me off my old classes under the pretext
that they are too much for me.  They've set me on to Scripture.  Then they told me I had to
remember--remember circumstances--to prevent myself from saying what I thought of such devilish
cruelty.  But I saw that they wanted me to break out so that they could get rid of me altogether,
and I held my tongue.  One of these days, though, I shall stand up in the open places and tell
the truth.  I shall say what they have done to me----"

He had forgotten, if he had ever fully realized, that there were strangers about him.  He shook
his fist and shouted, whilst the slow, hopeless tears rolled down the sunken yellow cheeks
onto the dirty manuscript.

They stared at him in consternation, all but Francey, who uncurled herself negligently and
slid from the sofa.

"It's past my tea-time," she announced, "and I want my tea."

It was as though she had neither seen nor cared.  Christine turned her faded, groping eyes
thankfully in her direction.

"Of course, my dear.  Robert--please----"

"No," he said; "we don't have tea, Francey."

"But, Robert, at least when we have guests----"

"Or guests," he added, with a set, white face.

Cosgrave laughed.  He made a comic grimace.  He seemed utterly irrepressible and irresponsible,
like a colt let out for the first time in a wide field.

"You don't know this fellow like I do, Miss Wilmot.  A nasty Spartan. But if you'll put a shilling
in the gas meter we'll get cakes and a quarter of tea.  He doesn't need to have any if he doesn't
want it, but he can't grudge us a corner of table and half a chair each.  Miss Christine's
on our side, aren't you, Miss Christine?  And oh, Connie, there's a pastrycook's round the
corner where they make jam-puffs like they did when I was a kid----"

"I'll put the kettle on," Francey said, nodding to him.

She passed close to Robert.  She even gave him a quick, friendly touch. He could almost hear
her say, "Tag, Robert!" but he would not look at her.  And yet the moment after he knew that
it was all make-believe. His anger was a sham, protecting something that was fragile and afraid
of pain.  Now that she had gone out of the barren little room she had taken with her the sense
of a secret, gracious intimacy which had been its warmth and colour.  He saw that the sunlight
had shrunk to a pale gold finger whose tip rested lingeringly on the windowsill, and he felt
tired and cold and work-soiled.

He got up and followed her awkwardly, with a sullen face and a childishly beating heart.  The
kettle was already on the gas, and Francey gazing into an open cupboard that was scarcely smaller
than the kitchen itself.

"It's like a boy's chemist shop," she said casually, as though she had expected him, "with
the doses done up in little white paper packets. Is it a game, Robert?"

"A sort of game.  We used to use too much of everything, and at the end of the week there'd
be nothing left.  So we doled it out like that."

"Yes, I see.  A jolly good idea.  That way you couldn't over-eat yourselves."

"I--I suppose you think I was an awful beast about the tea, don't you?"

"No, I didn't--I don't."

"I was--much firmer than I would have been, but I wanted you to stay. So I couldn't give in."

"If it had been just Cosgrave and Miss Edwards?"

"It wouldn't have mattered--not so much."

"I wasn't hurt.  It was tactless of me.  But I wanted the tea.  I forgot.  And I wanted to
stay, too.  I haven't learnt to do without things that I want."

"You think I don't want them?"

She closed the cupboard door abruptly.  The kitchen was so small that when she turned they
had to stand close to one another to avoid falling back into the sink or burning themselves
against the gas jet.  He saw that the fine colour had gone out of her face.  She looked unfamiliarly
tired.

"I think you want them terribly.  I suppose I'm not heroic.  I don't like your saying 'No'
always--always."

"I shall get what I really want in the end."

She sighed, reflected, and then laughed rather ruefully.

"Oh, well, get the cups now, at any rate."

"There are only three, Francey."

"You and I will have to share, then."

So she made him happy--just as she had done when they had been children--with a sudden comradely
gesture.

But in the next room Mr. Ricardo had begun to talk again.  They had to hear him.  He was not
crying any more.  His voice sounded hard and embittered.

"He's changed.  He doesn't care.  He pretended to listen.  He was looking at that girl.  She's
a strange girl.  I don't trust her.  She believes in myths.  Oh, yes, I know.  She did not
say so, but I can smell out an enemy.  She will try to wreck everything.  So it is in life.
We give everything--sacrifice everything--to pass on our knowledge, our experience, and in
the end they break away from us--they go their own road."

Robert could not hear Christine's answer.  He felt that Ricardo had thrown out his arms in
one of his wild gestures.  "Not gratitude--not gratitude.  He was to have carried on my fight.
To have been free as I am not----"

Miss Edwards and Rufus Cosgrave came racketing back up the steep and creaking stairs.  It was
like the whirlwind entry of some boisterous comet dragging at its rear a bewildered, happy
tail.  They were as exultant as though their paper bags contained priceless loot rescued from
overwhelming forces.

"Hurry up there, Mr. Stonehouse.  Don't keep the lady waiting.  Tea and puff, as ordered, ma'am.
No, ma'am, no tipping allowed in this establishment.  But anything left under the plate will
be sent to the Society for the Cure of the Grouch among Superior Waiters."

She jollied Christine, whose answering smile was like a little puzzled ghost.  She nourished
a heavily scented handkerchief in the professional manner and grinned at Robert, whose open
hostility did not so much as ruffle the fringe of her good humour.  In her raffish, rakish
world poverty and wry, eccentric-tempered people abounded, and were just part of an enormous
joke.  And Rufus Cosgrave, who gaped at her in wonder and admiration, saw that she was right.
Poor old Robert and exams, and beastly, bullying fathers and hard-upness--the latter more especially--were
all supremely funny.

But Robert would not look at the jam-puff which she pushed across to him.

"Thanks.  I hate the beastly stuff."

And yet it was a flaky thing, oozing, as Rufus had declared, with real raspberry jam.  And
he was very young.  But he would not give way. Could not.  It seemed trivial, and yet it was
vital, too.  There was something in him which stood up straight and unbendable.  Once broken
it could never be set up again.  And gradually a sense of loneliness crept over him.  He went
and stood next Ricardo, who, like himself, would have no share in the festivity.  And the old
man blinked up at him with a kind of triumph.

"And we're going to a hill that I know of," Francey was saying.  "No one else knows of it.
In fact, it's only there when I am.  You go by train, and after that you have to walk.  I don't
know the way.  It comes by inspiration.  When you get to the top you can see the whole of England,
and there are always flowers.   I'm taking Howard's gang, and you people must come along too.
It's what you want.  A good time----"

"All the time," said Miss Edwards, blowing away the crumbs.

"My people are going in a char-a-banc to Brighton," Rufus said.  "But I'll give them the slip.
There's sure to be a beastly row anyhow."

"That's my brave boy!  Who cares for rows?  Take me.  Our Mr. Reilly's had the nerve to fix
up a rehearsal for the new French dame what's coming to ginger up our show--and, oh, believe
me, it needs it--but am I down-hearted?  No!  Anyway, if she's half the stuff they say she
is they'll never notice poor little Connie's gone to bury her fifth grandmother.  So I'll be
with you, lady, and kind regards and many thanks."

"And you, too.  Miss Forsyth?"

Christine shook her head.  She was frowning up out of the open window a little anxiously.

"What would you do with a tired old woman?"

"Ruffles will carry you.  Throw out your chest, Ruffles, and look fierce.  What's the use of
a hefty brute like that if it isn't useful?"

"And when you're on my hill," Francey said with a mysterious nod, "you'll understand it better
than any of us."  She looked away from the grey, upturned face.  She added almost to herself:
"How dark it is here!  The sun has gone down behind the roof."

"Has it?  Yes, it went so suddenly.  I wondered"--she picked up her knitting, and began to
roll it together--"if Robert could go?" she murmured.

"Robert can go.  I knew before I asked."

But he flung round on her in a burst of extraordinary resentment.

"I can't.  You seem to think I can do anything and everything that comes into your head.  People
like you never really understand.  We're poor.  We haven't the money or the time to--to fool
round.  Nor has Cosgrave, but he likes to pretend--humbug himself and anyone else silly enough
to believe in him."

It was as though something long smouldering amongst them had blazed up. Cosgrave banged the
table with his clenched fist.  His freckles were like small suns shining out of his dead-white
face.

"You--you leave me alone, Stonehouse.  I--I'm n-not a kid any more. And I d-don't pretend.
Connie knows I haven't a c-cent in the world except what poor mother sneaks out of the housekeeping.
But I'm s-sick of living as I've done--always grinding, always afraid of everything. If I c-can't
have my fun out of life I d-don't want to live at all. I'm not going to Heaven to make up for
it--Mr. Ricardo has just told us that--so what's the use?  You've g-got your work and that
satisfies you.  Mine doesn't satisfy me.  So when you t-talk about me--you're just t-talking
through your hat."

Miss Edwards threw up her hands in mock horror.

"Oh, my angel child, what a temper!  And to think I nearly married him!"

She choked with laughter.  And underneath the thin flooring, as though roused by her irreverent
merriment, the big car shook itself awake with a roar and splutter of indignation.  But the
sliding doors were thrown open, and its rage died down at the prospect of release.  It began
to purr complacently, greedily.

It was strange how the sound quieted them.  They looked towards the window as though for the
first time they were aware of something outside that came to them from beyond the low, confining
roofs--a spring wind blowing from far-off places.

"Six cylinder," Cosgrave muttered with feverish eyes.  "Do you know, if I had that thing living
under me I'd--I'd go off with it one night, and I'd go on and on and never come back."

Connie Edwards patted his head.  She winked at Francey, but Francey was looking at Robert's
sullen back.

"No, you wouldn't.  Not for six months or so, anyhow."

He laughed shamefacedly.

"Oh, well, of course I'm rotting.  I can't drive a go-cart.  Never had the chance.  Oh, I say,
Robert, don't grouch.  I didn't mean to be rude.  Of course, you're right in a way.  But I
get that sort of stuff at home, and if I get it here I don't know what I'll do."

"Oh, you're right, too," Robert muttered.  "It's not my business."

Cosgrave appealed sadly to Francey.

"He's wild with me.  But a picnic--you'd think any human being might go on a picnic----"

"You're going," she answered quietly, "and Robert too."

He did not take up the challenge.  He was too miserable.  He had not meant to break out like
that.  As in the old days, he hungered for her approval, her good smile of understanding. 
But as in the old days, too, beneath it all, was the dim consciousness of an antagonism, of
their two wills poised against one another.

The car purred louder with exultation.  It came sliding out into the narrow, cobbled street.
It waited a moment, gathering itself together.

"I wonder where it's going," Cosgrave dreamed.  "I hope a jolly long way--right to the other
end of England.  I'd like to think of it going on and on through the whole world."

Christine leaned forward, peering out dimly.

"Are the trees out yet, Robert?"

They looked at her in silence.  It was a strange thing to ask.  And yet not strange at all.
All day long she sat there and saw nothing but the squat, red-faced stable opposite.  Or if
she went out it was to buy cheaply from the barrows in a mean side street.  And now she was
remembering that there were trees somewhere, perhaps in bloom.

Even Miss Edwards looked queerly dashed and distressed.

"Now you're asking something, Miss Forsyth.  There are trees in this little old village, but
they aren't real somehow, and I never notice 'em.  Well, we'll know on Monday.  Please Heaven,
it doesn't rain."

"I want to get out," Cosgrave muttered; "out of here--right away----"

"I've not had a picnic--not since I was a kid.  But I haven't forgotten it, though.  Heaps
to eat--and an appetite----  Oh, my!"

"And you can go on eating and eating," Francey added greedily, "and it doesn't seem to matter."

"Egg and cress sandwiches----"

"Ham pie----"

"Sardines----"

"Russian salad--mayonnaise----"

"And something jolly in a bottle."

They laughed at one another.  But after that the quiet returned again. Francey sat with her
hands clasped behind her head and her chair tip-tilted against the wall.  To Robert, who watched
her from out of the shadow, she seemed to be drifting farther and farther away on a dark, quiet,
flowing river.

It grew to dusk.  The car had long since set out on its unknown journey.  The narrow street
with its pungent stable odour had sunk into one of those deep silences which lie scattered
like secret pools along the route of London's endless processions.  And presently Mr. Ricardo,
who had not moved or spoken, but had sat hunched together like a captive bird, leant forward
with his finger to his lips.

Christine had fallen asleep.  Her hands lay folded upon her work and her face was still lifted
to the black ridge of roof where the sun had vanished.  There was enchantment about her sleep,
as though in the very midst of them she had begun to live a new, mysterious life of her own.
She had been the shadowy onlooker.  She became the central figure among them.

Mr. Ricardo rose noiselessly.  He looked at no one.  He passed them like a ghost.  They heard
him creeping down the stairs and his hurrying, unequal footsteps on the empty street.  Cosgrave
and Connie Edwards nodded to one another and took hands and were gone.  Francey, too, slipped
to her feet.  She gathered up her hat and coat, her silence effortless.  She did not so much
as glance at Robert, but at the head of the steep, ladder-like stairs he overtook her.

"Francey--listen----"

With one foot on the lower step, her back against the wall, she waited for him.  It was too
dark for them to see each other clearly.  They were shadows to one another.  They spoke in
whispers, as though they were afraid of waking something more than the sleeper in the room
behind them.  He could not have told how he knew that her face was wet.

"I wanted to say--I don't know why I behaved like that.  I'm not usually--nervy--uncontrolled.
I don't think I've ever lost my temper before.  I've had so little to do with people.  Perhaps
that's it. I've gone my own way alone----"

"And now that our ways have crossed," she began with a sad irony.

"No--not crossed--come together--run out together into the high-road----"  He clenched his
hands till they were bloodless in the effort to speak.  "You see, a few weeks ago I wouldn't
have lost my temper--and I wouldn't have said queer, silly things like this---- I'm a sort
of kaleidoscope that someone's shaken up.  I don't know myself; things have been hard--but
awfully simple.  I've only thought of--wanted--the one thing.  It doesn't seem to me that I've
had to fight until now.  You don't understand--what it has been----"

"I do--I do!" she interrupted hurriedly.  "I've seen Christine--and the way you live--and that
dreadful cupboard.  Oh, I'm not sorry for you--only afraid.  You're nothing but a boy----"

"You needn't be afraid.  I'll pull through.  It's only another year now.  But I can't be like
the other people you know--who can be jolly and easy-going--because they're not going anywhere
at all.  Can't you be patient, Francey?"

"Was I impatient?"  He felt her humour flicker up like a flame in the darkness.  "I suppose
I was.  It was the jam-puff.  You hurt their feelings.  And it was such a little thing."

"I hate jam-puffs," he said, but humbly, because it was not the truth, and he could never explain.

"Come with us, Robert."

"I can't."

"But you want to come?"

"That's just it.  I don't know why.  It would be waste of time--money--everything--all wrong.
What have I to do with Howard and that lot--with girls like Connie Edwards?"

"--and me," she added, smiling to herself.

"Or you with them?"

"Oh, they're my friends.  As you say, they're not going anywhere--just dawdling along and picking
up things by the wayside--queer, interesting things----"

"I've no use for them," he said doggedly.

"--And Christine wanted to go."  She added after a moment, gently, as though she were feeling
through the dark, "--is dying to go, Robert."

"You're just imagining it.  She's never cared for things like that--only for my getting ahead
with my work--my finals."

"Didn't you hear her ask about the trees?"

He looked back over his shoulder like a suddenly frightened child.

"Yes.  It--it didn't mean anything, though.  It was just for something to say."

"She said a great deal more than she meant to."

"We've mapped out everything--every ha'penny--every minute."

"Let me help, Robert.  I've got such a lot.  I've no one else.  I could make it easier for
you both.  I should be happier, too.  And you could pay me back afterwards with interest--a
hundred per cent.--I don't care what."

But now feeling through the dark she had reached the barrier.  He answered stonily.

"Thanks.  We've never owed anything.  We shan't begin now."

She slipped into her coat.  She tugged her soft hat down over her hair. There was more than
anger in her quick, impatient movements.  She was going because she couldn't bear it any more.
She had given in.  She would never come back.  And at that fear he broke out with a desperate
cunning.

"It's too bad to be angry with me.  I--I want to go."

"And I've asked you----?

"Because you want me?"

"Of course.  It will be the first chance we've had to really talk----"

"It can't matter--just for once," he pleaded with himself.

"It might matter a great deal."

She went on down the stairs, very slowly, lingeringly.  He leant over the creaking banisters,
trying to see her.

"Francey--you duffer--you haven't even told me where to meet you."

"Paddington--the Booking Office--10.15."

He held his breath.  Her voice had sounded like that of a spirit laughing out of the black
veil beneath.  It did not come again.  He could not even hear her footsteps.  She had vanished.
But he waited, trembling before the wonder of his own impulse.

Supposing he had yielded--had taken her hands and kissed them--kissed that pale, beloved face,
he who had never kissed anyone but Christine since his mother died?

He had not done it.  It had been too difficult to yield.  But he stood there, dreaming, with
his hot eyes pressed into his hands, whilst out of the magic quiet rose wave after wave of
enchantment, engulfing him.

2

They agreed that Francey had not boasted about her hill.  It stood up boldly out of the rolling
sea of field and common land and was tree-crowned, with primroses shining amongst the young
grass.  From its summit they could see toy villages and church, spires and motors and char-a-bancs
running like alarmed insects along the white, winding lanes.  But apparently no one saw the
hill.  No one came to it.  Since it was everything that picnic parties demanded in the way
of a hill, it was only reasonable to accept Francey's theory that it was not really there at
all--or at most only there for her particular convenience.

They spread their table-cloth on its slope and under the dappled shadows of the half-fledged
trees, with Christine presiding on the high ground.  Her wispy grey hair fluttered out from
under the wide black hat, and she looked pretty and pathetic, with her shabby black bag and
her old umbrella, like a witch, as Howard said, who had been caught whilst absent-mindedly
gathering toad-stools and carried here in triumph to bless their mortal festivity.

"The umbrella keeps off rain," he explained mysteriously, "and besides that, it's a necromantic
Handley-Page which might fly off with her at any minute.  When you see it opening, stand clear
and hold on to yourselves."

He made a limerick on this particular fancy.  It was a very bad limerick, as bad, probably,
as his theories on pyridine and its relation to the alkaloids which had floored him in his
last exam.; but the Gang applauded enthusiastically, and drank to Christine out of mugs of
beer.  Unlicked and cynical as they were, they seemed to have a chivalrous tenderness for her.
And she was at home among them--silent, smiling wistfully down upon their commonplace eccentricities,
as though through the mist of her coming blindness they were somehow lovable.

They ate outrageously of fearsome things.  Yet over her third meringue Connie Edwards broke
down with lamentations for the lost powers of youth.

"I can remember eating five of 'em," she said, "and coming home to a tea of winkles and bloater
paste.  Oh Gawd!  I'll be in my grave before I can turn round."

She had been from the start in an unusually pensive and philosophic mood--a trifle wide-eyed
and even awe-struck.  It seemed that the night before the "French dame" had appeared unexpectedly
during a rehearsal--a peculiarly gingerless performance according to Connie's account--and
had watched from the wings awhile, and then, unasked and apparently without premeditation,
had broken in among them and at the edge of the footlights, to a gaping, empty theatre, had
danced and sung a little song.

"A French song," Connie said solemnly.  "Not a word of the blessed thing could we understand,
and yet we were all hugging ourselves.  Not pretty either--a mere bone and a yank of hair--and
no more voice than a sparrow.  But you just went along too.  Couldn't help it.  And afterwards
we played up as though we liked it, and hadn't been plugging at the rottenest show in England
for the last ten weeks.  And she laughed and clapped her hands, and our tongues hung out we
were that pleased.  She's It, friends.  It.  Gyp Labelle from the Folies Bergeres and absolutely
It."

Rufus Cosgrave rolled over on his face and lay blinking out of the long grass like a sleepy,
red-headed satyr.

"Gyp Labelle," he said drowsily, "Gyp Labelle!"

Robert knew that he was thinking of the Circus.  And he did not want to think about the Circus.
He pushed the memory from him.  He was glad when Howard said gravely:

"That's genius.  That's what we poor devils pray to and pray for.  We know we haven't got it,
but we're always hoping that if we agonize and sweat long enough, one day God will lean out
of His cloud and touch us with His finger."

"Michael Angelo," said Gertie Sumners, with a kind of sombre triumph. "The Sistine Chapel.
I've got a print of it in my room.  That's where you saw it."  She leaned back against a tree
trunk with her knees drawn up to her chin, and blew out clouds of smoke, and looked more than
usually grey and dishevelled and in need of a bath.  "In a way it's like that with Jeffries.
He rubs his beastly old thumb over my rottenest charcoal sketch, and it's a masterpiece."

Robert, lying outstretched at Francey's feet, wondered at them--at their talk of genius in
connection with a revue star and a smudgy, underpaid studio hack, more still at their reverence
for a God in Whom they certainly did not believe.

Miss Edwards snatched off her cartwheel hat smothered with impossible poppies, and sent it
spinning down the hill.

"What's the good?" she demanded fiercely.  "We're just nothing at all. We're young now.  But
when we aren't young, what's going to happen to the bunch of us?"

"This is a picnic," Howard reminded her.  "Not a funeral.  You haven't eaten enough.  Have
a pickle."

But the shadow lingered.  It was like the shadow thrown by the white clouds riding the light
spring wind.  It put out the naming colours of the grass and flowers.  It was as though winter,
slinking sullenly to its lair, showed its teeth at them in sinister reminder.  Then it was
gone.  It was difficult to believe it could return.

Robert looked up shyly into Francey's face, and she smiled down at him with her warm eyes.
They had scarcely spoken to one another, but something delicate and exquisite had been born
between them in their silence.  He was afraid to touch it, and afraid almost to move.  He felt
very close to her, very sure that she was living with him, withdrawn secretly from the rest
into the strange world that he had discovered.  He was happy.  And happiness like this was
new to him and terrifying.  He was like a waif from the streets, pale and gaunt and young,
with dazzled eyes gazing for the first time into great distances.

"Italy----" Gertie Sumners muttered.  She threw away her cigarette, and sat with her sickly
face between her hands.  "I've got to get there before I die.  Think of all the swine that
hoof about the Sistine Chapel yawning their fat heads off, and me who'd give my immortal soul
for an hour----"

"You'll go," Howard said, blinking kindly at her.  "I'll take you. We'll get out of this for
good and all.  I'll bust a bank or forge a cheque.  You've got the divine right to go, old dear!"

Robert stirred, drawing himself a little nearer to Francey, touching her rough tweed skirt
humbly, secretly, as a Catholic might touch a sacred relic for comfort and protection.  They
were talking a language that he could not understand---they were occupied with things that
he despised, not knowing what they were; they made him ashamed of his ignorance and angry with
his shame.  He could not free himself of his first conviction that they were really the Banditti--inferior
children, who yet had something that he had not.  He was cleverer than they were. He would
be a great man when they had wilted from their brief, shallow-soiled youth to a handful of
dry stubble.  (This Gertie Sumners would not even live long.  He recognized already the thumb-marks
of disease in her sunken cheeks.)  And yet he was an outsider, blundering in their wake.  Just
because they accepted him, taking it for granted he was one of them, they deepened his isolation.
He could not talk their talk.  He could not play with them.  He had tried.  The old hunger
"to belong" had driven him.  But he was stiff with strength and clumsy with purpose.  If he
and Francey had not belonged to one another, he would have been overwhelmed in loneliness.

He shut his ears against them.  But when she spoke he had to listen--jealously, fearfully.

"It would be no use, Howard.  You'd come back.  You can't strip off your nationality like an
old-fashioned coat and throw it away.  All this--isn't it English and different from any other
country in the world--deeply, deeply different, just as we are different? England--she's a
human, lovely woman, quiet and broad-bosomed, busy about her home, and only sometimes, in the
spring and autumn, she stops a little to dream her mystic dreams.  In the summer and winter
she pretends to forget.  She's anxious about many things--how she shall keep us warm and fed--a
little stupid-seeming, with wells of all sorts of kindly wisdom.

"And Italy--the saint, the austere spirit, close to God, preparing herself for God, with unspeakable
visions of Him.  Where I lived"--she made a sudden passionate gesture of delight--"we looked
over the Campagna, and there were three hills close to one another with towns perched on their
crest, as far from the world and comfort as they could get.  And at night they were like the
three kings with their golden crowns and dark flowing robes, waiting for God to show them the sign.

"But we build our towns in the valleys and sheltered places.  We like our trains to be punctual,
and to do things in decent order.  We pretend to be a practical and reasonable people.  We're
of our soil. In Italy what do trains matter--or when they come and go--when, even to those
who don't believe in Him at all, it's only God who matters?"  She laughed, shaking herself
free.  "So you'll come back, Howard--because you're part of all this.  You'll always hate waiting
for your train, and you'll always be a little ashamed of your dreams.  And you'll never be
real anywhere else."

Howard applauded solemnly.

"I'll make a poem of that--one day, when I'm awfully drunk, and don't know what I'm doing."

But Robert sat up sharply, frowning at her, white, almost accusing.

"When did you live in Italy, Francey?"

"Last year--all last year."

"You mean--you chucked your work--everything--just to play round----?"

Howard yawned prodigiously.

"You don't get our Francey's point of view, Stonehouse.  You don't understand."

"Just to play round," she echoed to herself.  Then she laughed and unclasped her hands from
about her knees and stood up effortlessly, stretching out her arms like a sleepy child.  "And
now I'm going to gather sticks for a fire and primroses to take home.  Coming Robert?"

"No," he muttered.

Howard rolled over in the grass.

"Sulky young idiot--if I wasn't half asleep--or I'd been asked----"

His voice died into an unintelligible murmur.

So she went alone.  The rest, heavy with food and sunshine, nibbled jadedly at the remnants
of the feast, exchanging broken, drowsy comments.  Perhaps Gertie Sumners was brooding over
the three kings with their golden crowns.  But Robert knelt and watched Francey run down the
hill-side, faster and faster, like a brown shadow.  There was a thick belt of beech trees at
the bottom, and she ran into them and was lost.

He rose stiffly.  He did not want the others to see--he did not want to know himself, that
he was following her.  He strolled indolently about the crest of the hill, whistling to the
breeze, his eyes hunting the wood beneath like the eyes of a young setter at heel.  But when
at last he was out of sight he slipped his leash and was off, running recklessly, headlong.
The hill rose up behind him and sent him down its hillocky slopes as though before the horns
of an avalanche.  The wind blew the scent of trees and flowers and young grass against his
burning face.  It was like draughts of a cold, clear wine.  It was like running full-tilt down
Acacia Grove leaping and whooping.

It was frightening, too--a hand fumbling at the heart--this fierce coming to life of something
dormant, this breaking free----

The wood had swallowed her.  He drew up panting in the cool twilight. Beyond the faint breathing
of the leaves overhead and the secret movement of hidden things, there was no sound.  He walked
on quickly. At first it was only suspense, childish, thrilling.  Then it was more than that.
His heart began to beat quickly.  He tried to call her, but the quiet daunted him.  The wood
was a still, green pool into which she had dropped and vanished.  It was an enchanted wood.
There was enchantment all about her.  They had seemed so near to one another--and then in a
moment she had slipped away from him into a life of her own where he could not follow.

He had to find her and hold her fast.  Nothing else mattered--neither his work, nor his career,
nor Christine.  It was terrible how little they seemed now--a handful of dust--beside this
mounting, imperative desire.  He had been so invulnerable.  In wanting nothing but what was
in himself he had been able to defy exterior events.  Now he was stripped of his defence. 
He could be hurt.  He could be made desperately happy or unhappy by things which he had thought
trivial and purposeless--the playthings of inferior children.

He came upon her suddenly.  She knelt in the long grass, idle, with a few scattered primroses
in her lap as though in the midst of gathering them she had been overtaken by a dream.  He
called her by name, angrily, because of what he suffered.  He stumbled to her and flung himself
down beside her and held her close to him, ruthless with desire and his child's fear.

In that sheer physical explosion his whole personality blazed up and seemed to melt away, flowing
into new form.  He had dashed down the hill, a crude, exultant boy, into the whole storm and
mystery of manhood.  And for all his fierceness his heart was small within him, afraid of her,
and of itself, and its own hunger.

At last he let her go.  He tore himself from her and dropped face down in the grass, trembling
with grief and shame.  He heard her say: "Robert--dear Robert," very quietly, and her hand
touched him, passing like a breath of cool wind over his hair and neck.  He kissed it humbly,
pressing it to his wet, hot cheek.

"I was frightened, Francey--and jealous--of everything--of the things you love that I don't
even know of--of the places you've been to--of your friends--your money--your work.  I thought
you'd run away to Italy--or somewhere else where I couldn't follow--that I'd lost you----"

He saw her face and how deeply stirred she was.  She had blazed up in answer to him, but that
very fire lit up something in her which was not new, but which now stood out full armed--a
clear-eyed austerity.

"I felt, too, as though I were running away--to the ends of the world--but not from you, Robert.
I wanted you to come too.  I asked you.  You're not frightened now, are you?"

"Not so much."

"Let's be quiet--quite quiet, Robert.  We've got to talk this out, haven't we?  I've got to
understand.  Sit here and help me tie these together.  They're for Christine.  It'll make it
easier for us.  You didn't mean this to happen.  It was the sun and wind--it goes to one's
head like being out of prison after years and years.  You mustn't make a mistake.  You would
never forgive yourself or me.  I'd understand if you said: 'It was just to-day and being happy.'
But I won't play at our being in love with one another, Robert."

"It isn't a mistake, I'm not playing.  I don't pretend I meant to let you know.  I was frightened.
I wanted to hold fast to you.  But I've been sure ever since that night at Brown's----"

"And yet you wanted to avoid me----"

He nodded.  Ho knelt beside her, very white and earnest, with his hands clenched on his thighs.

"That was because I knew.  I didn't think about it.  But I knew all right.  And I was afraid
it would upset everything to care."

"Doesn't it?"

"Not caring for you.  Of course, I know all about life.  I'm young and I've never looked at
a girl.  I've always realized that it would be natural to fall in love--perhaps worse than
most men--and that if it was with a girl like Cosgrave's it would be sheer damnation.  I'd
have to fight it down.  But loving you is different.  It'll make me stronger.  I'll work harder
and better because I love you.  I'll do bigger things because of you."

Her head was bowed over her primroses.  The sunlight falling between the trees on her wild
brown hair kindled a smouldering colour in its disorder.  He watched her, fascinated and abashed
by the knowledge that she was smiling to herself.  And suddenly, roughly like an ashamed boy,
he took a grey and blood-stained rag from his inner pocket and tossed it into her lap.

"Do you remember that?"

She picked it up gingerly, amusedly.

"Is it a handkerchief, Robert?"

"Don't you remember it?" he repeated with triumph, as though in some way he had beaten her.

For a moment she was silent.  And when she looked at him her eyes were no longer smiling.

"You kept it like that----?"

"I wouldn't even wash it.  I hid it.  It's got dirtier and dirtier."

"It must be horribly germy, Robert.  We'll wash it together.   As members of the medical profession
we couldn't have it on our conscience----"

They laughed then, freely, out of the depth of their happiness.  She laid her hand in his and
he bent his head to kiss it.

"You do trust me, Francey?"

"Trust you?"

"You don't think it's weak of me to love you?  You know I'll pass my finals, don't you--that
I'll be all right?  People might think I hadn't the right to love you till I was sure.  But,
then, I am sure--dead sure."

"I'm sure, too."  Her voice sounded brooding, a little husky.  She took his hand and laid it
on her lap, spreading out the fingers as though to examine each one in turn.  "It's a clever,
beautiful hand, Robert--much the most beautiful part of you.  It will do clever, wonderful
things. What will you do?"

(As though, he thought, his hands were something apart and she was inquiring deeper into what
was vitally him.)

He told her.  It reassured him to go back to his foundations and to find them still standing.
He lost his tongue-tied clumsiness and spoke rapidly, clearly, with brief, strong gestures.
His haggard youth gave place to a forcible, aggressive maturity.  He was like an architect
who had planned for every inch and stone of his masterpiece.  Next year he would pass his finals.
He would take posts as locum tenens whenever he could and keep his hospital connexions warm.
In five years he would save enough to specialize--the throat gave wide opportunities for research.
There were men already interested in him who would send him work.  In ten years Harley Street--if
not before.

In the midst of it all he faltered and broke off to ask:

"Why do you love me, Francey?"

And then, impulsively, she flung her arm about him and drew him close to her.  His head was
on her breast, and for one uncertain moment she was not Francey Wilmot at all, but the warm
living spirit of the sunlight, of the quiet trees and the grass in which they lay--of all the
things of which he was afraid.

"Because you're such an odd, sad, little boy----"

3

After tea it began to rain, not dismally, but in a gentle way as people cry who have been too
happy.

"In this jolly old country fine weather means bad weather," Connie Edwards commented cynically.
She had reason to be depressed.  The impossible poppies dripped tears of blood over the brim
of the cartwheel hat.  But apart from that misfortune she had never got over her original mood
of puzzled dissatisfaction, and she and Cosgrave walked droopingly down the narrow lane arm
in arm and almost wordless.

So much of winter days was left that it was dark when they reached the foot of the hill--the
eerie luminous darkness of the country when there is a moon riding somewhere behind the clouds.
Robert could see Christine and Francey just ahead of him.  Christine had taken Francey's arm,
and they talked together in undertones like people who have secret things to say to one another.
How small Christine was!  She seemed to have shrunk into a handful of a woman as though the
sun had withered her.  She walked timidly, with bowed head, feeling her way.  Her voice lifted
for a moment into the old clearness.

"His father was a wonderful man--a wonderful, good man.  Unhappy.  Very unfortunate.  Not meant
for this world.  His mother was my dear friend. If they had lived--those two----  I did what
I could--I think they will be satisfied--it makes me happy----"

She murmured wearily.  And Francey bent her head to listen.  Robert loved her for the tenderness
of that gesture.  Yet it was bitter, too, that they should talk of his father.  He wanted to
go up to them and tell the truth brutally to Christine's face.  He would have liked to have
told them the one dream which he carried over from his sleep.  But it would have been useless.
Christine would only smile with a cruel, loving wisdom.

"You don't understand.  You were only a child.  Your father was so unhappy----"

The myth had become an invulnerable reality and had grown golden in the twilight of her coming
blindness.  James Stonehouse had been a good man, a faithful friend, and broken-hearted husband.
If those two had lived everything would have been different.  She threw her hallowed picture
of them on the screen of the dripping dusk so that they seemed to live.  Robert saw them too.
That was his mother walking at Christine's side, and then his father----  In a sort of shattering
vision Robert saw him, a man of promise, black-browed with the riddle of his failure, a man
of many hungers, seduced by rootless passions, lured to miserable shipwreck because he could
not keep to any course, because he could not give up worthlessness for worth.

Himself----

He staggered before the brief hallucination.  The moisture broke out on his white face.  It
wasn't enough to hate his father.  He had to be fought down day by day.  He was always there,
waiting to pounce out. He lay on his face, pretending to be dead----

It was gone.  He shook himself free as from the touch of an evil, insinuating hand out of the
dark.  This love was his strength.  If Francey were like his mother, then she was also good.
It was these rag and bobtail friends that poisoned everything.  They would have to be shaken
off.  Francey was a child, fond of gaiety and pleasure, with no one to guide her.  She didn't
understand.

Howard and Gertie Sumners were walking behind him now with the luncheon-basket between them,
talking earnestly in muffled whispers that were too intimate, and behind them again came the
Gang itself, laughing, jostling one another, exchanging facetiousness in their medical-Chelsea
jargon.

His father would have liked them.  Connie Edwards, no doubt, would have been one of those dazzling,
noisy phenomena that burst periodically on the Stonehouse horizon.

Supposing he should come to like them too--to tolerate their ways, their loose living, loose
thinking----?

He remembered how that very afternoon he had tried to be one of them, and sickened before himself.

Francey called to him through the darkness.

"Miss Forsyth's so tired, Robert.  Couldn't you carry her?"

And he took Christine in his arms, whilst she laughed and protested feebly.  It was awful to
feel how little she was.  Her head rested against his shoulder.

"It's a longer road than I thought.  You're very strong, Robert.  Your father was strong too."

It had been a successful day.  And yet, as they sat packed close together in the dim, third-class
carriage, they were like captives who had escaped and were being taken back into captivity.
The sickly, overhead light fell on their tired faces, out of which the blood, called up by
the sun and wind, had receded, leaving their city pallor. Connie Edwards had indeed produced
a lip-stick from her gaudy bead bag, but after a fretful effort had flung it back.

"What's the good?  Who cares----?"

And Cosgrave huddled closer to her, wan-eyed, hunted-looking.  It was the ghost of that exam
that wouldn't be laid--the prophetic vision of the row that waited for him, grinding its teeth.

Only Gertie Sumners and Howard had a queer, remote look, as though in that recent muffled exchange
they had reached some desperate resolve.

The wet, gleaming platform slid away from them.  There was a faint red light in the west where
the sunset had been drowned.  Christine turned her face towards it.  She was like a little
old child.  Her little feet in the shabby, worn-out shoes scarcely touched the floor.  Her
drooping hat was askew--forgotten.

"It has been a wonderful day.  But I mustn't come again.  I'm too old. It's silly to fall in
love with life when one is old."

Robert leant across to her.  He ached with his love and pity.

"Tired, Christine?"

"A little.  But it has been worth while.  You carried me so nicely--so big and strong."

She leant against Francey, nodding and smiling to reassure him.  And presently she was asleep.
He saw how Francey shifted her arm so that it encircled the bowed figure, and every ugly thing
that had dogged him in that lonely, haunted walk vanished before the kind steadfastness of
her eyes.

It was as though she had said aloud:

"We'll take care of her together.  We won't let her die before we've made her very, very happy."

Then he took out a note-book and made a shaky sketch of a pompous, drunken-looking house with
a huge door, on which were two brass plates, side by side, bearing the splendid inscriptions:

  Dr. Frances Stonehouse, Robert Stonehouse,
      M.D.,                     F.R.C.S.
                    Hours 10--1

He showed it to her and they smiled at one another, and there was no one else in the carriage
but themselves and their happiness.

III

1

It meant a tightening--a screwing up of his whole life.  Time had to be found.  The hours had
to be packed closer to make room for her.  He grasped after fresh opportunities to make money
with a white-hot assiduity.  He worked harder.  For he was hag-ridden by his unfaithfulness.
He drew up a remorseless programme of his days, and after that Francey might only walk home
with him from the hospital. And there was an hour on Sunday evening when he was too tired for
anything else.

It meant a ceaseless, active negation: a "No" to the simple wish to buy her a bunch of flowers,
"No" to the longing to walk a little farther with her in the quiet dusk, "No" to the very thought
of her.

2

As usual, on the way home, they discussed their best "cases."  There was No. 10 in A Ward,
a raddled woman of the streets who had been brought in the night before as the result of a
crime passionnel, and whose injuries had been the subject of long deliberations.  Even before
they had reached the hospital archway Robert and Francey agreed that Rogers' air of mystery
was simply a professional disguise for complete bafflement.

"It's the sort of case I'd like to have," Robert said.  "Something you can get your teeth into
and worry.  I believe if I were on my own--given a free hand--I'd work it out--pull her through.
Rogers may too.  But just now he's marking time.  And there's nothing to hope from time in
a job like that.  No constitution.  Rotten all through.  Still, it would be a feather in one's
cap."

He brooded fiercely, intently, like a hound on a hot scent.  People turned to look at the big,
shabby young man with the sunken, burning eyes that stared through them as though they had
been so many shadows. He did not, in fact, see them at all.  He made his way by sheer instinct
across the crowded street.

"She's terribly afraid of death," Francey said.  "It's awful to be so afraid.  It must make
life itself terrible."

"They'll operate soon as they dare--an exploratory operation.  If only I could have a say--a
real say!  It's maddening to know so much--to be sure of oneself.  I don't believe Rogers would
take me out on his private work if he knew I knew all I do.  I'm glad we're on a surgical post
together, Francey.  I don't know what I'd do if I hadn't got you to talk things over with."

"You daren't talk of anything else," she answered unexpectedly. "You're frightened of our being
happy together.  You're always trying to justify yourself."

"I'm not--what rubbish!"

He tried to laugh at her.  It was so like Francey to dash off down a side issue.  And yet it
was true.  He did try to think as much as he could of that side of their common life.  It did
add an appearance of stability and reason to the splendid unreason of his loving her.  It made
up to him for those dismaying breaks when her face and body stood like a scorching pillar of
fire between himself and his work, to find that when they were together they could be sternly
practical, discuss their eases and criticize their superiors as though, beneath it all, there
were not this golden, insurgent sea whose high tides swirled over his landmarks.  Not destroying
them.

In those latter times he loved her humbly, with wonder and passionate self-abasement.  But
in their work they stood further away from one another.  He could criticize her, and that gave
him a heady sense of power and freedom.  He never forgot the year that she had deliberately
thrown away.  And even now, when she stood at the beginning of the road which he had already
passed over, she seemed to him full of strange curiosities and wayward, purposeless interests.
There were days when an ugly Chinese print, picked up in some back-street pawnshop, or the
misfortunes of one of her raffish hangers-on, or some wild student rag, appeared to wipe out
the vital business of life.  She was known to be brilliant, but he distrusted her power of
leaping to conclusions over the head of his own mathematical and exact reasoning.  He distrusted
still more her tendency to be right in the teeth of every sort of evidence to the contrary.
It seemed that she took into her calculations factors that no one else found, significant,
unprofessional straws in the wind, things she could not even explain.

And yet she understood when he talked about his work, and that alone was like a gift to him.
No one else understood--for that matter, no one else had had to listen.  He knew that Christine
was too tired, and poor overburdened Cosgrave would only have gazed helplessly at him, wondering
why this strong, self-sufficient friend should pour out such unintelligible stuff over his
own aching head.  So he had learnt to be silent.  Even now it was difficult to begin.  He stammered
and was shy and distrustful and eager, sometimes crudely self-confident, like a child who has
played alone too long.

And Francey listened, for the most part critical and dispassionate, but with sudden gestures
of unmotivated tenderness: as when in the midst of his dissertation on a theory of insanity
and crime she had kissed him.

Sometimes for them both the prose and poetry of their relationship met and clasped hands. 
That was when they took their walk down Harley Street to have another look at the house which
was one day to be adorned with the celebrated brass plates.  At present it was solidly occupied
by several eminent-sounding medical gentlemen who would have to be ruthlessly dislodged when
their time came.

For it was the best house in the street, and, of course, the Doctors Robert and Francey Stonehouse
would have to have the best.

And once they quarrelled about nothing at all, or about everything--they hardly knew.  It was
an absurd quarrel, which blazed up and went out again like fire in stubble.  Perhaps they had
waited too long for their allotted hour together--dreamed too much about it, so that when it
came they could hardly bear it, and almost longed for it to be over.  And in the midst of it
Mr. Ricardo drifted in on one of his strange, distressful visits to Christine, and drove them
out of doors to roam the drowsy Sunday streets, hand in hand, like any other pair of vulgar,
homeless lovers.  For Francey could not stay when Mr. Ricardo came.  His hatred of her was
a burning, poisonous sore that gave no peace to any of them.

"It's a sort of jealousy," Robert reflected.  "We three have always held together.  He's had
no one else to care about.  And now you've come, and he thinks you want to take me away from him."

"I do," Francey said unexpectedly.

"Not in the way he means."

"You don't know----"

"He's been good to me.  I'd never have got through without him.  I can't have him hurt.  And
you will fight him, Francey.  I know he's crabbed and bitter, but so would you be if you'd
been twisted out of shape all your life.  And you only do it for the fun of the thing. Fundamentally,
you think alike."

"We don't, that's just it.  I'm sorry for him, and if it had been anything less vital I'd compromise--he'd
compromise, too, perhaps. We'd both lie low and look pleasant about our differences.  But as
it is we can't help ourselves.  We've got to stand up and fight----"

"I say, that sounds jolly dramatic."

"It is rather."

"Next thing you'll be saying you believe in God."

"Well, I do----"

He stopped short and let go her hand.  He was physically ashamed and uncomfortable.  He tried
to laugh, but for the moment they were face to face, and he could not mistake her seriousness.
They were like strangers, peering at each other through the grey dusk.

"Look here, Francey, dearest, you don't expect me to believe that? You're just joking, aren't
you?  You're--you're a modern woman, with a scientific training, too.  You can't believe in
an old, worn-out myth."

"I didn't say that."

"'An untested hypothesis,'" he quoted teasingly, but with a stirring anger.

"I don't know about that, either.  We're both bound by our profession to admit an empirical
test.  And if we human beings can't survive without God----"

"But we can--we do."

"I can't."

He threw up his head.

"Why do women always become personal when they argue?"

"And why do rationalists always become irrational?"

They walked on slowly, apart, vaguely afraid.  He wanted to change the subject, to take her
by the arm and hold her fast.  For she was drifting away from him.  Her voice sounded remote
and troubling, like a little old tune that he could not quite remember.  Its emotion fretted
his overstrained nerves.  He wanted to close his ears against it.  It was a trivial tune which
might become a torment.

"It's not only me.  It's everyone.  Most of us are frightfully unhappy. Don't you realize that?
And the more we understand life the more desperate we get.  Savages and children may do without
a god, but we can't.  We know too much.  Even the stupidest--the most careless of us. Think
of Howard and Gertie and all that lot.  Every second word is 'What's the good?  What's it all
about?'  They make a great deal of noise to cover up their unhappiness.  They're terrified
of loneliness and silence.  And one day it'll have to be faced."

"Oh, if you're going to take Howard as an example--" he interrupted.

"--and Rufus Cosgrave," she added.

He laughed with a boyish malice.

"Cosgrave doesn't need a god.  He's got me.  I'll look after him."

"You think you can?  And then we ourselves.  We're different, aren't we?  We've got our work.
We're going to do big things.  For whom?--for what?  For our fellow-creatures?  But if we don't
care for our fellow-creatures?  And we don't, do we?  Not naturally.  The Brotherhood of Man
is just dangerous nonsense.  Naturally men loathe one another in the mass.  How can we pretend
to love some of those people we see every day in the wards with their terrible faces--their
terrible minds?  But the idea of God does somehow translate them--it gets underneath the ugliness--they
do become in some mystic way my brothers and my sisters."

He found it strangely difficult to answer calmly.  It would have been easier to have bludgeoned
her into silence by a shouted "It's all snivelling, wretched rot!" like an angry schoolboy.
He did not know why he was so angry.  Perhaps Ricardo was right.  It was something vital. 
He could feel the old man's shadow at his side, his hand plucking his sleeve, urging him on,
claiming his loyalty.  They were allies fighting together against a poisonous miasma that sapped
men's brains--their intellectual integrity.

"Piling one fallacy on another isn't argument, Francey.  We don't need to like our fellow-creatures.
It's a mistake to care.  Emotion upsets one's judgment.  Scientists--the best men in the profession--try
to eliminate personal feeling altogether.  They're out for knowledge for its own sake.  That's
good enough for them."

"And the end of that--organized, scientific beastliness, like modern war.  Knowledge perverted
to every sort of deviltry.  Huge swollen heads and miserable withered hearts.  One of these
days we'll blow ourselves to pieces----"

They were both breathless and more than a little incoherent.  They had entered into a playful
tussle, and now they were fighting one another with set teeth.

"I don't believe you believe a word you're saying," he stammered.  "You know as well as I do
that it's only since we began to throw off superstition that we've begun to move.  Or perhaps
you don't want to move--don't believe in progress."

"Progress towards what?" she flung back impetuously.  "Perfection? Some point where we'd have
no poverty, no war, no ignorance, no death even; where we'd all have every mortal thing we
want?  The millennium? That's only another word for Hell.  It's only by pretending that there
are things we want, and that we should be happy if we had them, that we can believe in happiness
at all.  All this unrest, this sick despair every morning of our lives when we drag ourselves
out of bed and wonder why we bother--it's just because we've begun to suspect that the millennium
is of no use to us.  We've got to have more than that--some sort of spiritual background--or
cut our throats."

"Wild rhapsodizing, Francey.  You don't know a thing."

"I don't.  Nor do you.  When I said I believed, I meant I hoped--I trusted.  And if there isn't
a God at the end of it all, you people who want to keep us alive for the sake of the knowledge
you get out of us will have to make one up."

Whereat, suddenly, in a cool, refreshing gust, their sense of humour returned and blew them
close to one another.  They laughed and took hands again--a little shyly, like lovers who had
been parted for a long time.

"What rot--our quarrelling over nothing at all," Robert said, "when we've only got this hour
together.  I wanted to say 'I love you, Francey--I love you, dear' over and over again.  Say
'I love you too, Robert.'"

"I love you too," she answered soberly.

But the crack was there--a mere fissure in the ground between them--a place to be avoided even
in their thoughts.

3

At night when his work was over and the unrest grew too strong to be fought, he crept down
the black, creaking stairs, through the sleeping backwater of Drayton Mews, and out into the
streets.  He walked fast, with his head down, guiltily, like a man flying from a crime.  But
in the grave square where Francey Wilmot lived he slackened speed, and, under the thick mantle
of the trees, stood so still that he was only a deeper shadow.  Then release came.  It was
like gentle summer rain falling on his fever.  There was no one to see his weakness.  He could
think and feel simply and naturally as a lover, without remorse. Sometimes a light burnt in
her window, and then he knew that she was working, making up for those queer, wild play-hours.
He could imagine her under the shaded lamplight, the books heaped round her, and her hands
clenched hard in the thick brown hair.  He could feel the peace, the rich, deep stillness round
her.  And a loving tenderness, exquisite and delicate as a dream, welled up in him.  He said
things out of his heart to her that he had never said: broken, stumbling things, melted in
the white-heat of their truth into a kind of poetry of which the burden never changed.  "I
can't live without you--I can't live without you."  He could have knelt before her, burying
his burning face in her lap in strange humility--childlike surrender.

And when the window was dark he knew that she had gone out to dance, to the theatre, with friends
whom he did not know, belonging to that other life in which he had no part.  And then his loneliness
was like a black sea.  He leant against the railings, weak with weariness and hunger, fighting
his boy's tears, until she came.  He did not speak to her. She never knew that he was there.
He hid, his heart stifling him, until the door closed on her.  Then, since she had come back
to him, belonged to him again, he could go in peace.

The others--Howard and Gertie and even Connie now--went in and out, risking ruthless ejection
if she were hard pressed, to sit in the best chairs, with their feet in the fender and drink
coffee and smoke endlessly whilst they poured their good-natured cynicism over life.  If they
were hungry they rifled Francey's larder, and if they were hard up they borrowed her money.
But after the one time Robert never went.  He did not want to meet them.  And besides the big
square room with its mark of other stately days--its panelled walls, rich ceilings and noble
doors--was his enemy.  It was steeped in a mellow, unconscious luxury that threatened him.
There were relics from Francey's old home, trophies from her Italian wanderings, books that
his hands itched just to touch, and things of strange troubling beauty.  A bronze statue of
a naked faun stood in the corner where the light fell upon it, and seemed to gather into itself
everything that he feared--a joyous dancing to some far-off music.

The room would not let him forget that Francey held money, which he had had to squeeze his
life dry to get, lightly and indifferently.  She gave it with both hands.  She had always had
enough, and it seemed to her a little thing.  Between people who cared for one another it counted
less than a word, and his sullen refusal of every trivial pleasure and relief that lay in her
power to give them hurt and puzzled her.  She saw in it only a bitter pride.

"You might at least let me make Christine's life easier in little things," she said.

He could not tell her that Christine would have been afraid for him, as he was afraid of the
deep chairs that had seemed to clasp his tired body in drowsy arms, of the rugs that drank
up every harsh sound, of the warm, fragrant atmosphere that was like a blow in the face of
their chill and barren poverty.

So after that one time he kept away.  But he could always see the room and Francey working
there, and the slender, joyful body of the faun poised on the verge of its mystic dance.

Once, Francey was too strong for him, and they bought tickets for the theatre, and he sat hunched
beside her in the front row of the cheap seats and stared down at the great square of light
like an outcast gazing at the golden gates of Paradise.  It was The Tempest, and he hardly
understood.  It broke over him in overpowering sound and colour. He was dazed and blinded.
He forgot Francey.  He sat with his gaunt white face between his bands and watched them pass:
Prospero, Miranda, Ferdinand, Ariel--figures of a noble, glittering company--and wretched,
uncouth Caliban crouched on the outskirts of their lives, pining for his lost kingdom.  But
in the interval he was silent, awkward and heavy with an emotion that could not find an outlet.
He felt her hand close over his--an, almost anxious hand.

"Robert, you like it, don't you?  You're not bored?" He turned to look dazedly at her, stammering
in his confusion.

"I've never been to a theatre before."

"Never?  Oh, my dear----"

"Only to a circus, long ago."  He drew back hastily into himself.  He did not want her to be
sorry like that.  He would not let her see how shaken he was.  "I never wanted to go," he said.

After that they walked home together, and in the empty street that led into her square a moonlight
spirit of phantasy seemed to possess her, and she sang under her breath and danced in front
of him, rather solemnly as she had done as a little girl:

  "Come unto these yellow sands
  And then take hands. . ."

He caught hold of her.  Everything was unreal--they themselves and the unfamiliar street, painted
with silver and black shadows.

"Don't--you're dancing away from me; there's nothing for you to dance to."

She smiled back wistfully.

"I don't hear them," he muttered clumsily.

"Caliban heard them----"

"And you're Ariel," he said, with sudden, sorrowful understanding. "Ariel!"

From the steps of the dark house she looked down at him, her eager face smiling palely in the
white, still light.

"Ariel wasn't a woman, dear duffer.  You'll have to read it.  I'll lend it to you.  And then
we'll go again."

He shook his head.

"No."

"Yes--often--often, Robert.  We've been nearer to one another than ever before--just these
last minutes--quite, quite close.  We've got to find each other in pleasure too."

He rallied all his strength.  He said stiffly, pompously:

"It's been awfully nice, of course.  And thank you for taking me.  But I don't really care
for that sort of thing."

And for a moment they remained facing one another whilst the joy died out of her eyes, leaving
a queer distress.  Then they shook hands and he left her, coldly, prosaically, as though nothing
had happened.  But he was like a drunken man who had fallen into a sea of glory.

  "The clouds, methought, would open, and show riches
  Ready to drop upon me. . ."

There was all that work that he had meant to do before morning.  It seemed far off--more unreal
and fantastic than a fairy tale.  His heart and brain, ached with willingness and loathing.

  ". . . that, when I wak'd,
  I cried to dream again. . ."

He set his teeth.  He clenched his hands till they hurt him.

"I'll have to keep away from all that," he thought aloud, "altogether--till I don't care any more."

IV

1

After all, Rufus Cosgrave had imagined his answers.  Connie Edwards met Robert as he came out
of the hospital gates and told him.  It was raining dismally, with an ill-tempered wind blustering
down the crowded street, and she had not dressed for bad weather.  Perhaps she did not admit
unpleasant possibilities even into her wardrobe.  Perhaps she could not afford to do so.  Her
thin, paper-soled shoes, with the Louis XIV heels, and the cheap silk stockings which showed
up to her knees, made her look like some bedraggled, long-legged bird-of-Paradise.  A gaudy
parasol could not protect her flopping hat, or her complexion, which had both suffered.  Or
she had been crying.  But she did not sound as though she had been crying.  She sounded breathless
and resentful.

"He heard this afternoon," she said.  "And what must he do but come bursting round to my place--half
an hour before I'm due to start for the show--and carry on like a madman.  Scared stiff, I
was.  Tried to make me swear I'd marry him and start for Timbuctoo to-morrow, and when I wouldn't,
wanted to shoot himself and me too--as though I'd made a muck of things.  Well, I'd done my
best, and when it came to that sort of sob-stuff I'd had enough.  What's he take me for?  Get
me into trouble with my landlady--making a row like that."

Robert heard her out in silence, and his intent, expressionless scrutiny seemed to flick her
on the raw.  She stamped her foot at him.  "Oh, for the Lord's sake, get a move on---do something,
can't you?  I didn't come here to be stared at as though I were a disease!"

"Where is he?"

"If I knew----!  My place probably--with the gas full on--committing suicide--making a rotten
scandal.  You've got to come and dig him out."

"Where do you live?"

"Ten minutes from here.  10E Stanton Place.  I'll show you a short way. I ran like a hare,
hoping I'd catch you, and you'd put a bit of sense into the poor looney's head.  Serves me
right--taking on with his sort."

"Well--we'd better hurry," Robert said.

"Thanks.  I said I'd show you the way.  I'm not coming in.  Don't you believe it.  I've had
enough.  All I ask is--get him out and keep him out."

"You're through with him?"

Her habitual good-natured gaiety was gone.  She looked disrupted and savagely afraid, like
an animal that has escaped capture by a frantic effort.  And yet it was difficult to imagine
Rufus Cosgrave capturing or frightening anyone.

"You bet I'm through with him.  You tell him so--tell him I don't want to see him again--I
won't be bothered----"  She broke off, and added, with a kind of rough relenting: "Put it any
blessed way you like--say what's true--we've had our good times together--and it seems they're
over--we've no use for one another."

"You mean--now he's failed."

"What do you mean--'now he's failed'?  What's his rotten old exam got to do with me?  I don't
even know what it's about."

"You took the good time whilst you could get it, and now when you can't hope for anything more----"

She stopped short, and they faced each other with an antagonism that neither gave nor asked
for quarter.  They had always been enemies, and now that the gloves were off they were almost glad.

"So that's my line.  Cradle-snatching.  Vamping the helpless infant!" She burst into a fit
of angry, ugly laughter.  "A good time!  Running round with a poor kid with ten shillings a
week pocket-money--eating in beastly cheap restaurants--riding on the tops of 'buses when some
girls I know are feeding at the Ritz and rolling round in limousines.  That's what I get for
being soft.  And now because I won't shoot myself, or go off to nowhere steerage, I'm a bad,
abandoned woman.  What d'you take me for?"

"What you are," he said.

She went dead white under her streaky paint.

"You--you've got no right to say that.  You're a devil--a stuck-up devil--I hate you--I'd have
always hated you if I'd bothered to mind. I--I gave him a good time.  That's the truth.  He
was down and out when I met him, and I set him on his feet.  I didn't mind what I missed--or
the other girls guying me--I made him laugh and believe he had as good a chance in the world
as anyone else.  I put a bit of fun into him.  I liked the kid.  I--I like him now.  If he
wanted a good time to-morrow I'd run round with him again.  But I'm no movie heroine--I'm not
out for poison and funerals and slow music.  Life's too damn serious for my sort to make a
wail and a moan about it."

He stood close to her.  He almost menaced her.  He did in fact look dangerous enough with his
white, set face and unflinching eyes in which stood two points of metallic light.  If he had
seen himself then he might have cowered away as from a ghost.

"I don't care a rap about you.  I do care about my friend.  You've got to stand by Cosgrave
till he's over the worst."

"I won't--I won't!"

"I'll make you.  You took him up.  You made him think you cared about him.  You're responsible----"

"I'm not--I won't be responsible; it's not my line.  I've got myself to look after."

She had the look of someone struggling against an invisible entanglement--a pitiable, rather
horrible look of naked purpose.  She meant to cut free at whatever cost.

"You little beast!" he said.

He was sick with contempt.  He swung away from her, and she stood in the middle of the pavement
and called names after him like a drunken, furious street-girl.  She did not seem to be even
aware of the people who stared at her.  When he was almost out of hearing, she added:

"Give him my love!" shrilly, vindictively, as though it had been a final insult.  But he took
no notice and now, at any rate, she was crying bitterly enough.

2

"E" proved to be the top room of No. 10, a dingy lodging-house whose front door, in accordance
with the uncertain habits of its patrons, stood open from year's end to year's end.  Robert
went in unnoticed.  He ran up the steep, narrow stairs, with their tattered carpeting, two
steps at a time.  A queer elation surged beneath his anger and distress.  Cosgrave's failure
was like a personal challenge--a defiance thrown in his teeth. The old fight was on again.
It was against odds.  But then, he had always fought against odds--won against them.

The room was Connie Edwards herself.  It seemed to rush out at him in a tearing rage, flaunting
its vulgar finery and its odour of bad scent and cheap cigarette smoke.  It made him sick,
and he brushed it out of his consciousness.  He did not see the poor attempts to make it decent
and attractive--the bed disguised beneath a faded Liberty cretonne, a sentimental Christ hanging
between a galaxy of matinee heroes, nor a full-length woman's portrait, across which was scrawled
"Gyp Labelle" in letters large enough to conceal half of her outrageous nakedness.  There were
even a few flowers, drooping forlornly out of a dusty vase, and a collection of theatrical
posters, to lend a touch, of serious professionalism.

But the end of it all was a frowzy, hopeless disorder.

Cosgrave lay huddled over the littered table by the open window.  The red untidy head made
a patch of grotesque colour in the general murk.  He looked like a poor rag doll that had been
torn and battered in some wild carnival scrimmage and flung aside.

There was not much in him--not much fight, as he himself said.  Not the sort to survive.  Life
was too strong--too difficult for him.  He bungled everything--even an exam.  It would be wiser,
more consistent to let him drift.  And yet at sight of that futile breakdown, it was not impatience
or contempt that Robert felt, but a choking tenderness--a fierce pity. He had to protect him--pull
him through.  He had promised so much--he forgot when: that afternoon lying in the long, sooty
grass behind the biscuit factory, or that night when he had dragged Cosgrave breathless and
staggering in pursuit of the Greatest Show in Europe.  It did not matter.  It had become part
of himself.  And Cosgrave had always trusted him--believed in him.

"It's all right, old man; it's only me--Robert."  For Cosgrave had leapt up with an eager cry,
and now stood staring at him open-mouthed.  The light was behind him, and the open mouth and
blank, shadowy face made a queer, ghastly effect, as though a drowned man had suddenly stood
up. Then he sagged pitifully, and Robert caught him by the shoulders and shook him with a rough,
boyish impatience.  "Don't be an idiot.  It doesn't matter all that much.  Exams are not everything.
Everyone knows that.  We'll find something else.  If your people are too beastly, you'll come
and share with us.  I'll see you through--it'll be all right."

But a baffling change came over Cosgrave.  He shook himself free.  He stood upright, looking
at Robert with a kind of stony dignity.

"Where is she?"

"Who?"

"Connie.  She sent you, didn't she?"

"Yes.  We met----"

"Where is she?"

"I don't know.  Gone to the theatre probably."

"Isn't she coming back?"

"Not now."

"Didn't she send a message?"

"She said--it was finish between you.  She's a little rotter, Cosgrave."

"She made me laugh," Cosgrave said simply.  "I don't mind about the exam.--or about anything
now.  I suppose I was bound to fail.  But I was so jolly happy.  I'd never had a good time
like that.  It's all over now. She doesn't care.  She said she couldn't be tied up with a lot
of trouble.  That's what I am.  A lot of trouble.  It was all bunkum--make-believe--to think
I could be anything else."

So it wasn't his failure.  It wasn't even the loss of a good-for-nothing chorus-girl.  It was
a loss far more subtle.  The recognition of it lamed Robert Stonehouse, knocked the power out
of him, as though someone had struck and paralysed a vital nerve centre.  He could only stammer
futilely:

"She's not worth bothering about."

Cosgrave slumped back into his chair.  His hands lay on the table, half clenched as though
they had let go and didn't care any more.  He looked at Robert wide-eyed with a sudden absolute
knowledge.

"That's it," he said.  "Not worth bothering about--nothing in this whole beastly, rotten, world.
. . . . ."

3

A convenient uncle found him a berth as clerk to a trading firm in West Africa, and with a
cheap Colonial outfit and 10 pounds in his pocket, Cosgrave set out for the particular swamp
which was to be the scene of his future career.  He went docilely, with limp handshakes and
dull, pathetic eyes.  If he betrayed any feeling at all, it was a sort of relief at getting
away from everybody.  But emotionally he was dead--like cheap champagne gone flat, as he expressed
it in one twisted mood of self-revelation.

Probably he was thinking of Connie Edwards and of their last spree together.

But he never spoke of her.

And it was very unlikely that the swamp would give him a chance to see any of them again.

After all, he had stood for something.   He was a rudderless little craft that had come leaking
and tumbling willy-nilly in the wake of the bigger vessel.  But also he had been a sort of
talisman.  He had protected Robert as the weak, when they are humble and loving, can protect
the strong, giving them greater confidence, making their defeat impossible. With his going
went security.  Little old fears came crawling out of their hiding-places.  At night when Robert
climbed the dark stairs to their stable-attic, they set upon him.  They clawed his heart. 
He called to Christine before he saw her, and the answering silence made him sick with panic.
It was reasonless panic, for Christine often fell asleep at dusk.  She was difficult to wake
and when she woke it was strangely, with a look of bewilderment, like a traveller who has come
home after a long absence.  Once she had spoken his father's name with a ringing joy, and he
had answered roughly and had seen her shrink back into herself.  Her little hands trembled,
fumbling apologetically with the shabby bag she always carried.  She was like a girl who, in
one withering tragic moment, had become old.  But his aching love found no outlet, no word
of regret or tenderness.  It recoiled back on himself in a dead weight of pain.

He began to watch himself like a sick man.  There were hours when he knew his brain to be losing
edge--black periods of hideous impotency which, when they passed, left him shaken and wet with
terror.  Supposing, at the end of everything, be failed?  He didn't care so much.  His very
power of caring had been dissipated.  His single purpose lost itself amidst incompatible dreams.
He was being torn asunder--and there was a limit to endurance.

Cosgrave had failed.  He couldn't concentrate.  He was always looking for happiness.  He had
fallen in love and wasted himself and made a mess of his life.

It was mad to fall in love.

And yet the worst dread of all was the dread of losing Francey.  It seemed even the most unreasonable,
for they had their work in common and they loved one another.  There was no doubting their
love.  They were very young and might have to wait, but he could trust her to wait all her
life.  He knew dimly that she had been fond of him as a little boy, and had gone on being fond
of him, simply and unconsciously, because it was not possible for her to forget.  She would
love him in the same way. That steadfastness was like a light shining through the mists of
her character--through her sudden fancies, her shadowy withdrawals.

And still he was afraid, and sometimes he suspected that she was afraid too.  It was as though
inexorable forces were rising up in both of them, essentially of them, and yet outside their
control, two dark antagonisms waiting sorrowfully to join issue.

4

It had happened suddenly--not without warning.  One little event trod on the heels of another,
rubble skirling down the mountain-side, growing to an avalanche.

Or, again, Cosgrave might have been the odd, unlikely keystone of their daily life.  He had
not seemed to matter much, but now that he had been torn out the bridge between them crumbled.

It had been a day full of bitterness--of set-backs, which to Robert Stonehouse were like pointing
fingers.  They were the outward expressions of his disorder.  He did not believe in luck, but
in a man's strength or weakness, and he knew by the things that happened to him that he was
weakening.  A private operation had gone badly.  He had bungled with his dressings, so that
the surgeon had turned on him in a burst of irritation.

"Better go home and sleep it off, Stonehouse."

He had not gone.  He would not admit that he was ill--dared not.  All illness now meant the
end of everything.  It would wipe out all that they had endured if he were to break down now.
It would kill Christine.  She must not even guess.

He hung about the hospital common-room.  The summer heat surging up from the burning pavements
stagnated between the faded walls.  He could not touch the food that he had brought with him.
He was faint and sick, and the long table at which he sat, with its white blur of newspapers,
rose and fell as though it were floating on an oily sea.  But he held out.  At five o'clock
he was to meet Francey at the gates, and, as though she had some magic gift of relief, he strained
towards that time, his head between his hands, his ears counting the seconds that dripped heavily,
drowsily from the moon-faced clock.

And then she did not come.  Outwardly it was only one more trifle, capable of simple explanations.
But he saw it through a disfiguring haze of fever, and it was deadly in its significance. 
He hardly waited.  He crossed the thoroughfare, and once in a side street stumbled into a shambling
run.  He did not stop until he reached her house.  His former reluctance broke before the imperative
need to see her and make sure of her.  He stormed the broad, deep, carpeted stairs, pursued
by a senseless panic, But at the top his strength failed him.  He felt his brain throbbing
in torture against his skull.

The old maid-servant nodded gravely, sympathetically.

"Yes, she's in, sir, but very busy--going away--sir." Going away.  He wavered in the dim hall,
trying to control his flying thoughts.  Going away.  And she had said nothing the night before--had
not even warned him.  Some unexpected, untoward event striking in the dark.  Illness.  A long
separation.  (And yet, he argued, he could not live without her. She had no people who could
claim her.  They were dead.  No one to come between them.  And there was her work.  She would
never leave that again.)

But there she stood in the midst of the disorder of a sudden going.  Open suit-cases, clothes
strewn about the floor, she herself in some loose, bright-coloured wrap, her brown hair tousled
and her brows knit in perplexity.  She stopped short at sight of him, smiling ruefully, her
arms full.

"Oh, my dear--I'd forgotten."  (Then she must have seen his face with its dead whiteness, for
she added quickly, half laughing): "Not you.  Only the time.  I've not been at the hospital,
and I thought I had still half an hour.  I've had to run round like mad, and even now I've
got a hundred things to do----"

He gulped.  He said: "Where are you going?" in a flat, emotionless voice, as though he did
not care.

For a moment she did not answer.  She let the clothes drop, forgotten, on the sofa.  He could
see her weighing--considering what she should say to him.

"Italy--Rome--I expect----"

"Italy--when?"

"I've got to be at the hospital to-morrow.  Wednesday probably.  I don't believe it'll be for
long.  I hope not.  A week or two.  I've got leave for a month."

"Why are you going?"

And now he could not keep the harsh break out of his voice.  He could not hide the physical
weakness which made it impossible for him to stand. And yet, though she looked at him, she
seemed unaware that he was suffering.  She was absorbed in some difficulty of her own, set
on her own immediate purpose.  He knew that mood.  It was the other side of her fitful, whimsical
way of life that she could be as relentless, as deadly resolute and patient in attainment as
himself.

"It's about Howard," she said, abruptly coming to a decision.  "I wasn't sure at first what
to do about it.  I didn't want anyone to know.  But you're different.  We have to share things.
Howard and Gertie--they've both gone--gone off--no one knows where."

"Together?"

"I'm pretty certain of it.  At any rate, Gertie, who couldn't even pay her rent, has vanished,
and Howard--I heard about Howard this morning."

"What did you hear about him?"

"It was from Salter.  You probably don't know him.  He came to me because he knew I was a friend
of Howard's.  He was frightfully upset.  It seems there was some sort of club which a crowd
of students were collecting for, and he and Howard held the funds.  It wasn't much--150 pounds--and
Howard drew it out two days ago."

"Does that astonish you?" Robert asked.

She seemed not to hear the scorn and irony of the question.   She went on packing deliberately,
and he watched her, not knowing what he would say or do.  The tide was rising faster.  His
dread would carry him off his feet.

"No.  I was sure things were coming to a crisis."

"He was no good.  Anyone could see that."

"I didn't see it."

"Well, you see it now," he flung at her with a hard triumph.

"I don't."

"A mean thief----"

"Not mean, Robert."

"I don't know anything meaner than stealing money from a lot of hard-up students."

"There was Gertie," she said as though that were some sort of extenuation.

"Gertie--they've gone off on some rotten spree--not even married."

(He hated himself--the beastly righteousness of his voice, his contemptible exultation.  It
was as though he were under some horrid spell which twisted his love and anguish into the expressions
of a spiteful prig.  Why couldn't he tell her of those deadly, shapeless fears, of his loneliness,
his sorrowful jealousies?  He was shut up in the iron fastness of his own will--gagged and
helpless.)

He saw her start.  She stopped definitely in her work as though she were at last aware of some
struggle between them.  The room was growing dark, and she came a little nearer, trying to
see his face.

"I don't suppose so.  I don't think it would occur to them."

"No--that's what I should imagine."

"You're awfully hard on people, Robert."

"That sort of thing makes me sick.  It ought to make you sick.  I don't know why it doesn't.
You don't seem to care--to have any standards. You're unmoral in your outlook--perhaps you're
too young--you don't realize.  A rotter like Howard who takes other people's money just to
enjoy himself--a girl like Gertie Sumners who goes off with the first man who asks her----"

"You don't understand, Robert."

"No," he said with a laugh, "I don't."

"Gertie Sumners hasn't long to live.  I sent her to the hospital last week, and they told her
honestly.  And she wanted so much to see Italy. I don't think Howard cares for her or she for
him, except in a comradely sort of way.  They loved the same things--and he was sorry--he wanted
to give her her one good time."

"He told you all that, I suppose?"

"No," she answered soberly.  "But I know."

He waited a moment.  He was trying desperately to hold back--to stop himself.  He was sorry
about Gertie Sumners.  But everything was against him.  The room was against him--the faun
dancing noiselessly among the shadows, the little things that Francey had gathered about her,
the dear personal things that can become terrible in their poignancy, Francey herself, standing
there slender and grave-eyed, judging him, weighing him.  They were all leagued together. 
They spoke with one voice.  "We belong TO one another.  We understand.  But you don't belong.
You are outside."

"I don't see, at any rate," he said, "what it has got to do with you--or why you should be
going away."

"I'm going after them.  There's no one else.  Howard will expect prosecution.  He will think
that he'll never be able to come home.  He's pretty reckless, but they will be thinking of
that all the time.  It will spoil everything for them."

"And what can you do?"

"I can tell them it's all right."

"How can it be?"

"It is," she said curtly.  "The money has been paid back."

"Paid back!"  Understanding burst upon him.  "You paid it?"

He stood up.  He knew that resentment flickered in her--a fine, dangerous resentment against
him because he had dragged so simple and obvious a thing out of its insignificance.  But his
own anger was like a mad, runaway horse, rushing him to destruction.

"It was stupid of him not to have come to me in the first place," she said, with an effort.
"He should have known----"

He broke in fiercely.

"You can't--can't go like that."

"I must.  If they had left an address--but, of course, they haven't. I'll have to track them
down.  It won't be so difficult."  A spark of gaiety lit up her serious eyes.  "I'll find Gertie
lying on her back in the Sistine Chapel.  She'll scorn the mirrors."

"You can't leave your work like that."

"The hospital people have been awfully decent about it."

"You told them----?"

"I told them I had urgent, personal business."

"You told them a lie, then?"

(Steady.  Steady.  But it was too late.  His only hope lay in her understanding--her pity.)

"It wasn't a lie.  My friends are my business."

"Your friends!" he echoed.

There was silence between them.  She was controlled enough not to answer. It would have been
better if she had returned taunt for taunt so that at last in the white heat of conflict his
prison might have melted and let him free.  But there followed a cold, deadly interlude, in
which their antagonism hardened itself with reason and bitterness.  He went and stood by the
window looking out on to the dim square.  He said at last roughly, authoritatively:

"Don't go.  I don't want you to go."

(If only he could have gone on--driven the words over his set lips--"because I'm afraid--because
I'm at breaking-point--because I can't do without you.  I'm frightened of life.  I've been
starved in body and heart too long.  I'm frightened because Christine is hard to wake at night--because
I can't work any more.")

"I've got to," she said briefly, sternly.

He walked from the window to the door.

"You don't care.  You care more for these two than you do for me.  I've lived hard and clean.
I don't lie or steal.  I've never thought of any girl but you.  And you put me second to a
feckless thief and a----"

She stopped him.  Not with a word or gesture, but with the sheer upward blaze of a chivalrous
anger.  And it was not only anger.  That would have been bearable.  It was sorrow, reproach,
a kind of grieving bewilderment, as though he had changed before her eyes.

"You'd--you'd better go, Robert.  We're both of us out of hand.  We'll see each other to-morrow.
It will be different then."

He went without a word.  But on the dark stairs he stood still, leaning back against the wall,
his wet face between his hands.  He said aloud: "Oh, Francey.  Francey, I can't live without
you!"  He would have gone back to tell her, but he was physically at the end of everything,
and at the mercy of the power outside himself.  He thought:

"There's still to-morrow.  I'll tell her everything.  I'll help her to get away.  I'll make
her understand that it wasn't Howard.  To-morrow it will be all right."

And so went on.  And the stolid Georgian door closed with a hard metallic click, setting its
teeth against him.

"Now you see how it happens, Robert Stonehouse!"

5

But he came out of a night of fever and hallucination with very little left but the will to
keep on.  Apathy, like a thin protecting skin, had grown over him, shielding him from further
hurt.  He did not want to feel or care any more.  The very memory of that "scene" with Francey
made him shrink with a kind of physical disgust.  Only no more of that.  Back to work--back
to reason.  If she wished to go in pursuit of Howard and Gertie she would have to go.  It seemed
strange to him now that he should have minded so desperately.

Christine called to him as he passed her door.

"Is that you, Robert?  Have you had your breakfast?  Wait, dear--I'll get it for you."

But he crept down the stairs as though he had not heard.  Only not so much caring--if only
he could forget that he cared.

"Good-bye, dearest, good-bye!"

Her voice followed him, plaintive and clear.  It seemed to lodge itself in his heart so that
ever afterwards he had only to think of her to hear it like the echo of a small, sad bell.
He went on stubbornly, in silence.

He did not try to see Francey.  They met inevitably in the wake of the surgeon on whose post
they worked, but they did not speak.  Their eyes avoided one another.  Yet he could not forget
her.  It was not the old consciousness that had been full of mystery and delight.  It hurt.
He felt her unsapped joyous living like a blow on his own aching weariness. He thought bitterly
of her.  How easy life had been for her!  She played at living.  Her airy fancies, her belief
in God, her vagrant tenderness for the rag and bobtail of the earth were all part of that same
thing. She had never suffered.  Her people had died, but they had died in the odour of sanctity
and wealth.  She had never had to ask herself: "If I fall out, what will become of us?"  She
saw pain and poverty through the softening veil of her own well-being.  Nothing could really
hurt her.

(And yet how lovable she was!  He watched her covertly as she stood at the surgeon's elbow--a
little graver than usual--a little paler.  To-day there was no warm glance with a flicker of
a smile in its serene depths to greet him.  Her hands were thrust boyishly into the pockets
of her white coat, and there was an air of austere earnestness about her that sat quaintly,
charmingly upon her youth.  He loved the businesslike simplicity of her dress--the dark, tailored
skirt and white silk shirt--immaculate--expressive of her real ability, an accustomed wealth.
He flaired and hated its expensiveness.)

Money.  That lay at the root of everything.  If she were ill--what would it matter?  A mere
set-back.  Her work would wait for her.  Money would wave anxiety from her door.  So she was
never ill.  Even though she loved him and they had quarrelled she had kept her fresh skin and
clear eyes. Even if she had worried a little, in the end she had slept peacefully. (He felt
his own shabbiness, his exhaustion, his burning hands and eyes, his dry and bitter mouth like
a sort of uncleanliness.)

And there in the midst of his jagged thoughts there flickered a red anger--a desire to hurt
too, to strike, to come to grips at last with her laughing philosophy of life--to tear it down
and batter it into the dust and misery in which he stood.

They had come to No. 10's bedside.  Things had gone badly with No. 10. She had stood a successful
operation, but there had been severe haemorrhage, and, as Robert had said, there was no constitution
to fight at the turning point.  Her face just showed above the creaseless sheet. Death had
already begun to clear away the mask of vice and cynicism and a lost prettiness peered through.
But the eyes were terribly alive and old.  So long as they kept open there could be no mistaking
her.  They travelled from face to face, and sought and questioned.  Her voice sounded reedy
and far-off.

"Not going this trip, am I, doctor?"

Rogers patted the bed.

"Certainly not.  Going along fine.  What do you expect to feel like--with a hole like that
in your inside?  Next time you have a young man, see he doesn't carry firearms."

One of the eyes tried to wink--pitifully, obscenely.

"You bet your life.  Don't want to die just yet."

"Nobody does."

They drew a little apart.  Rogers consulted with his colleague.  The serious loss of blood
must be made good.  A transfusion.  There was a young man who had offered himself.   A suitable
subject.  This afternoon at the latest.

They moved on.  Robert spoke to the man next him.  But he knew that Francey heard him.  He
meant her to hear.

"It's crazy.  They ought to be glad to let a woman like that slip out. If she lives she'll
only infect more people with her rottenness.  She's better dead.  Instead of that they'll suck
out somebody else's vitality to save her.  The better the life the more pleased they'll be
to risk it. This sacrificing the strong to the weak--a snivelling sentimentality."

The man he spoke to glanced at him curiously--it was not usual for Robert Stonehouse to speak
to anyone--and said something about the medical profession and the sanctity of life.  Robert
laughed.  He argued it over with himself.  It was true.  For that matter Howard and Gertie
and Connie would all be better dead.  There was no use or purpose in their living. Only sentimentalists
like Francey wanted to patch them up and keep them on their feet.

People who cluttered up life ought to be cleared out of it.

He felt light-headed, yet extraordinarily sure of himself again.  He answered Rogers' questions
with the old lucidity.  And presently he found himself in the corridor, still arguing his theme
over.  He would prove to Francey that she must let Howard and Gertie go to the devil and they
would never quarrel again.

He came to the head of the stairs where they met after the morning's work.

The steps were very broad and white and shallow, and gave the impression of great distance.
Mr. Ricardo, at the bottom of them, was a black speck--a bird that had blundered into the building
by mistake and beaten itself breathless against the walls.  As he saw Robert he began to drag
himself up, limping.  He seemed to shrivel then to a mere face, stricken and yellow, that gaped
and mouthed.

Robert did not move.  He stood leaning against the balustrade.  It was as though an iron fist
had smashed through the protecting wall about him, letting in a rush of bitter wind.

"Robert--Robert!"

He nodded.

"I'm coming----"

For he had known instantly.

6

The tragic journey through the streets was over.  They stood beside her. Robert knew too much
to struggle, but Ricardo's voice went on, saying the same things over and over again, pleading.

"Do something--do something.  Wake her, Robert, dear boy, for God's sake. What is the use of
all your studying if you can't even wake her?"

"It's no use," he said.

"She was sitting there--I was to have read her the last chapter--she was so quiet--asleep she
seemed---for an hour--I sat--not moving--then I was afraid!"

Robert nodded.

She had laid his supper for him.  It was much too early for her to have laid it.  She had spread
muslin over the bread and cheese.  And then she had sat down quietly in her chair by the window
and waited.  (How long had she waited there?  Many years perhaps.  It had been very lonely
for her.)  Her head was thrown back a little, and her closed eyes lifted to the light that
came over the stable roofs.  The grey hair hung in wisps about the transparent face--very still,
as though the air had died too. She had changed profoundly, indefinably.   She looked younger,
and there was a new serenity about the faintly opened mouth.  Her hands lay peacefully on the
little shabby bag.  Her little feet in the ill-fitting shoes just reached the ground.  In a
way it was all so familiar.  And yet he felt that if he touched her he would find out that
this was not Christine at all.  This was something that had belonged to her--as poignant, as
heart-rending as a dress that she had worn.

"Robert, isn't there anything--to do?"

"No."

They had nothing to say to one another.  They had made a strange trio--lonely and outcast by
necessity--but now a link had snapped and it was all over.  They stood apart, each by himself.
Ricardo, crouching against the window-sill, pressed his hand to his side as though he were
hurt and bleeding to death.  He said, almost inaudibly:

"I've no one.  Nobody will ever listen.  She believed in me.  She was sure that one day--I
would go out--and tell the truth.  She knew I wasn't--a cowardly--beaten, old man."

Robert could not touch her whilst Ricardo stood there crying.  Her repose was too dominating.
And if he touched her something terrible and incalculable might happen.  He felt as though
he were standing on the edge of a precipice, and that suddenly he might let go and pitch over.

It had come true at last--his boy's nightmare that had grown up with him--that only waited
for darkness to show itself.  Christine had left him.  She was dead, and it seemed that he
had no one in the world.  For Francey, loving him as she did, had failed him.  But Christine
had never failed him.  Never at any time had she asked, "Are you a good little boy, Robert?"
It would never have occurred to her.  She was so sure.  She had loved him and, believed in
him unfalteringly, and, in her quiet way, died for him.

Ricardo drew himself up.  He plucked at Robert's sleeve.  A change had come over him in the
last minutes.  His sunken brown eyes had dried and become rather terribly alert.  Something
too fine--too exquisitely balanced in him had been disturbed and broken beyond hope.

"It proves what I have suspected for a long time, Robert.  You know it's not a light thing
to make an enemy like that.  He's taken his time, but you see in the end he has taken everything
I had.  First he made me a liar and a hypocrite.  Then he took you.   He sent that girl specially
to come between us.  And now Miss Christine.  I suppose he thinks that's done for me.  But
it's a great mistake to make people desperate, Robert. You should always leave them some little
thing that they care for and which makes them cowards.  Now, you see, I simply don't care any
more.  I don't care for myself or even my poor sister.  I'm going to fight him in the open,
gloves off.  I'll wrestle with him and prevail.  I'll give blow for blow.  I'm going now to
Hyde Park to tell people the truth about him. They take him altogether too lightly, Robert.
They're inclined to laugh at him as of no account.  That's a great mistake, too.  I shall warn
them."  He nodded mysteriously.  "God is a devil--a cruel, dangerous devil."

Then he bent and kissed Christine's hand, very solemnly and tenderly, as some battered, comical
Don Quixote might have done before setting out on a last fantastic quest.  And presently Robert
heard him patter down the narrow stairs and over the cobbles to the open street.

They were alone now.  He bent over her and said: "Christine--Christine," reassuringly, so that
she should not be afraid, and gathered her in his arms.  How little she was--no heavier than
a child--and cold.  Her grey head rested against his shoulder.  If she had only stirred and
laughed, and said: "Your father was strong too!" he would have answered gently. He would have
been glad that the memory of his father could make her happy.  But it was all too late.

He carried her into her room.  It was like her to have left it so neat and ordered--each thing
in its place--her out-door shoes standing decorously together under the window, and her best
skirt peeping out from behind the cretonne curtain.  Her hair-brush, with the comb planted
in its bristles, lay exactly in the middle of the pine-wood dressing-table. When she had put
it there, she had not known that it was for the last time.

Or had she known?  She had called out to him so insistently.  She had wanted to say good-bye.
And he had gone on, not answering.

They said that people, at the end, saw their whole life pass before them. Perhaps she had seen
hers.  Perhaps she had trodden the old road that he was travelling over now.  Only her vision
of it would be different.  It was James Stonehouse and Robert's mother that she would see--radiant
figures of wonderful, unlucky people--and little Robert, who belonged to both of them, tagging
in the rear.

But he saw her--Christine lying white and still under the great mahogany side-board, Christine
coming back day after day in gallant patience to scrub the floors and his ears, and pay the
bills and chase away the duns, and do whatever was necessary to keep the staggering Stonehouse
menage on its feet.

She had held him close to her and comforted him.

Her splendid faithfulness.

He laid her on the narrow bed against the wall, and smoothed her dress and folded her hands
over her breast.  Her bag, which he had gathered up with her rolled on to the floor.  A book
fell out.  He picked it up mechanically.  It was a little Bible, and on the fly-leaf was written:

  "From JIM and CONSTANCE
    to their friend, CHRISTINE."

The writing was his father's.  It had faded, but one could still see how regular and beautiful
it was.  Then the date.  His own birthday--the first of all the unfortunate birthdays.

He looked at it for a long time, stupidly, not realizing.  Then suddenly he saw it--in a new
light.  Ricardo.  How frightfully--excruciatingly funny.  Ricardo.   He felt that he was going
to laugh--shout with laughter.  It was horrible.  Laughter rising and falling---like a sort
of awful sickness--choking him.

Instead his heart broke.  He flung himself down beside her and pressed his face against her
cold, thin cheek.  And, instead of laughter, sobs that tore him to pieces--and at last, in
mercy, tears.

"Oh, Christine, Christine--my own darling!  I did love you--I never told you--you never, never
knew how much!"

The earth-old cry of unavailing, inevitable remorse.

7

So there was no one but Francey now.

He did not know what he hoped, or indeed if he hoped for anything.  He turned to her instinctively.
And when the door of the ward opened he did, in fact, feel a faint lifting of the flat indifference
which had followed on that one difficult rending surrender.  He went to meet her. If she had
looked at him with her usual straightness, she might have remembered the boy of whom she had
been fond--a small, queer boy, who did not like having his face washed, and who came to her
truculent and swaggering, with smears under his red eyes.

Even then it is doubtful whether she could have changed the course on which both of them were set.

He did not want her to see.  And yet, unknown to himself, he did count on her instant understanding,
on some releasing, quickening word or look that would give back life to the dead thing in him.
But her eyes, preoccupied and unhappy, avoided him.  He could not have appealed to her. He
could not have said, as he had meant to do, "Christine is dead."  He was silenced by the certain
knowledge that all real communication between them had been broken off.

"No. 10 is going to pull through," she said.

They walked slowly down the corridor.  He found it difficult to keep his feet.  He wondered
vaguely why she should talk of No. 10 when Christine was dead.  He was puzzled---confused.

"It seemed likely," he muttered.  "Rogers had got his teeth into her."

"I suppose you think he was a fool to try?"

(What was she talking about?  He would have to arrange for the funeral. And the money.  He
did not know whether there would be money enough.  It was hideous--to think of a thing like
that--to have to go into a shop and say to some bored shopkeeper: "I want a nice cheap coffin,
please."  For Christine--for whom he had never been able to buy so much as a bunch of flowers.)

"I--I don't know."

"You see, I heard what you said."

(What had he said?  He tried to remember.  No. 10.  Better dead.  Yes, of course that was it.
He couldn't go back on that.  His mind seemed to strain and stagger under the challenge like
a half-dead horse under the whip.)

"She didn't hear me, anyway."

"I want to know--was it just--just a sort of pose--or did you mean it?"

"It was true."

"That doesn't seem to me to matter.  It was a beastly thing to have thought--beastlier to have
said----"

He stopped short, as though she had struck him across the face.  For an instant he was blind
with pain, but afterwards he steadied, grew deadly cool and clear-headed.  There was a constant
movement in the corridor and he turned abruptly, almost with authority, into an empty operating
theatre.  Instinctively he had chosen his ground.  Here was symbolized everything that he trusted
and believed in--a cool, dispassionate seeking, the ruthless cutting out of waste.  Yet in
the half-light the place surrounded them both with a ghostly, almost sinister unreality. Its
stark immaculateness lay like a chill, ironic hand on their distress. It made mock of their
unhappiness.  It divested them of their humanity. The nauseating sweetness that still lingered
in the sterilized air was like incense offered up on the grotesque sacrificial altar that stood
bare and brutal beneath the glass-domed roof.

And now Robert saw Francey's face.  It was white and pinched and unfamiliar, as though all
her humour and whimsical laughter and loving-kindness had been twisted awry in a bitter fight
with pain.  But he knew her eyes of old.  Long ago he had seen them with the same burning deadly
anger.  And he knew that it was all over.  Their patient antagonism had come to grips at last
over the bodies of their suffering love for one another.

Even then she held back.

"You don't know how hard life can be.  It was hard for her----"  But at that he burst out laughing,
and she added quickly, reading his thought: "Nothing that you've gone through is of any use
if it hasn't taught you pity."

"Your pity would take a half-dead rat from a terrier."

"You have no right to judge," she persisted.

He smiled with white lips.

"Oh, yes, I have!  We all have.  We condemn men to prison--to death."

"You do believe in God," she said bitterly.  "You believe in yourself."

"It comes to this, Francey, doesn't it?  You're through with me?  You don't care any more?"

Her eyes narrowed with a kind of desperate humour.  It was as though for a moment she had regained
her old vision of him--a sad queer little boy.

"You say that because you want to shirk the truth.  You're almost glad--presently you will
be very glad.  You never did want to care--not from the first.  Caring got in your way.  You
will be free now."  She waited, and then added very quietly, without anger: "I love you.  I
dare say I always shall--but I couldn't live with you--it would break my heart if we should
come to hate one another.  Don't think any more about it. I'll have gone to-morrow, and I'll
try to arrange not to come back till you're through.  It will be all right."

"Francey, it's such a foolish thing to quarrel about."

"It's everything," she said simply.

She turned to go.  Even then he could have stopped her.  He could have said: "Francey, Christine
died this morning!" and their sad enmity might have melted in grief and pity.  But what she
had said was true.  It was everything.  And his reason, his will, rising up out of the general
ruin, monstrous and powerful, stood like an admonishing shadow at his elbow.

"It's much better.  There's nothing to make a coward of you now.  You're free."

He half held out his hand, but it was only a convulsive, dying movement. He let her go.

PART III

I

1

As to Gyp Labelle, if she had known the part she played in their lives, which in the nature
of things was not possible, she would have broken into that famous laugh of hers.

To her, at any rate, it would have seemed immensely, excruciatingly funny.

As the result of an exchange of two remarkably casual notes they met at Brown's for dinner.
Brown's had occurred to both of them as a natural meeting-place.  Cosgrave, it is true, had
only dined there once and that free (as a friend of Brown's friend), but the impression made
upon a stomach accustomed to Soho and tea-shop fare had been indelible. Stonehouse himself
dined there as a matter of custom.  Besides, there was a touch of sentiment to their choice--a
rather bitter sharp-tasting sentiment like an aperitif.

Brown himself had aged considerably, and did not remember very well.

"Old friend of the doctor's, sir?  Well, so am I.  Getting on--getting on.  But I'm waiting
till I can squeeze my money's worth out of him. When's that knighthood coming, doctor?  I want
to be able to tell that story--as good a story as you'd read anywhere.  He's got to keep me
alive, sir, till it comes true."

He went off to the kitchen tittering to himself over an ancient joke which, together with his
"feeling" for the psychological moment in the matter of roasts, was about all that was left him.

Stonehouse, his chin resting in his hand, studied the menu from which they had already chosen.

"When the last Honours List came out, he was quite serious and pathetic about it," he said.
"Things move either too slowly or too quickly for old people.  He does realize that I make
quite a good story as I stand, but he wants the finishing touches--the King clasping me by
the hand, or kissing me on both cheeks, or whatever he thinks happens on those occasions--and
wedding bells as a grand finale."

"The place seems to have grown shabby," Cosgrave said.  "Or perhaps it's only me."

"Oh, no.  It is shabby.  And perhaps you've noticed, they don't wait here as they used to."

Cosgrave looked directly at his companion, almost for the first time, and caught a spark in
the eyes that stared into his--a rather dangerous spark, which cleverer people than himself
had found difficult to make sure of.  Then he laughed flatly.

"You can see how funny it is now----"

"I always did."

"--because you were so sure it would pan out--like this.  How long is it?"

"About eight years."

"My word!  Let's--let's look at one another and take stock."

Stonehouse sat back and bore the inspection with a faint smile.  He knew himself, and how he
impressed others.  The eight years had done a great deal for him.  His strength had cast its
crudeness and had attained a certain grace--the ease of absolute control and tried confidence
in itself.  He still dressed badly--indifferently, rather--but his body had toned down to the
level of the fine hands, which he held loosely clasped upon the table.

He looked at once very young and very fine drawn and, as Cosgrave thought, a little cruel.

"You seem--awfully well and prosperous, Robert.  And a sight better looking."

Stonehouse laughed.  All he said in reply was:

"And you look prosperous and ill.  What was it?  Enteric?"

Cosgrave shrugged his thin shoulders.  He was still flamboyantly red-headed and generously
freckled, but now that the first flush of excitement had ebbed, his face showed a parchment
yellow.  His eyes, wistful in their setting, were faded, as though a relentless tropical sun
had drunk up their once vivid, boyish colouring.

"Oh yes, that and a few other trifles.  I think I've housed most West African bugs in my time.
Everyone had them, but I was such poor pasture that I got off better than most.  Three of my
superiors died of 'em, and I stepped right into their shoes.  It pays, you see, if you can
hold out. People like a fellow who isn't always clamouring to come home--and you bet I never
did.  But, finally, I took an overdue leave and a hunk of savings and trekked back.  I'd always
planned it--a good time, you know--but somehow it hasn't come off.  I expect I left it too
long.  In the end I didn't really want to come at all--wanted to lie down and die, but hadn't
the strength of mind to insist.  I'd been in London a week before I wrote you--just drifting
round--too weak-kneed to take the first step.  I tore up that idiotic note three times."

"Well, as long as you posted the fourth effort," Stonehouse said, "it's all right."

They fell then unexpectedly into one of those difficult silences which beset the road of friends
who have been separated too long.  The past stood at their elbow like an importunate and shabby
ghost.  And yet it was all they had to lead them back into the old intimacy.

"We've got too much to say," Cosgrave broke out at last, with a painful effort, "too much ground
to cover--and I dare say we don't want to cover it.  If we'd written--but I never heard from
you after that one letter--after Miss Christine's death."

"I was ill," Stonehouse explained, eating tranquilly.  "I got through my finals with a temperature
which would have astonished my examiners, and then I went to pieces altogether.  Had to go
into hospital myself.  A nervous breakdown.  Three months I had of it.  They were very decent
to me, and when I came out they got me a berth as ship's doctor on one of the smaller transatlantic
liners.  I got hold of things again and pulled them my way.  But I didn't want to look back.
My illness had made a definite break--I wanted to keep free."

Cosgrave nodded.  He had been playing with his food, and now a look of disgust and weariness
came into his thin face.

"I can understand that.  I suppose it would have been better if I'd left well alone, and not
written at all."

"It wouldn't have made much difference," Stonehouse said: "A week or two. Sooner or later we'd
have run into one another.  People who've been at school together always seem to.  And you
and I especially."

"I don't know.  I was always a poor specimen--I never meant much to you."

Stonehouse looked up at him and smiled.  This time it was an unmistakable smile and rather
charming, like a warm line of light falling across his face.

"I was awfully glad to get your letter," he said.  "I'd begun to worry rather."

Cosgrave flushed up.

"That's--that's about the nicest thing that's happened to me for a long time.  I'd probably
cry with pleasure--only I don't seem able to feel much anyway.  It's those damn bugs, I suppose!"

"I'll pull you out of that."

"Got me diagnosed already?"

"It's not very difficult."

"I suppose--I suppose you're an awful swell, Stonehouse."

"Not yet.  I'm better at my job than a great many men who are swells. But I'm young--that'll
cure itself.  Oh, yes--I'm all right.  Things have gone on coming my way.  I'll tell you about
it sometime."

Cosgrave's eyes had rounded with their old solemn admiration.

"A fashionable West-End surgeon--oh, my word!  I say, have you got a bed-side manner tucked
away somewhere?"

"No.  That's not fashionable for one thing, and for another, it wouldn't suit my style.  I'm
not interested in people.  I'm interested in their diseases.  They know it, and rather like
it."  A touch of chill scorn showed itself for a moment in his face.  "They're frightened of
me.  I'm as good as an electric shock to their lethargic, overfed carcasses.  They can't get
over a young man with his way to make who wipes his boots on them.  They have to come back
for more."

Cosgrave gave his little toneless laugh.

"I wish to God you'd frighten me.  You know, when I felt how rotten I was I thought of you.
You always bucked me up--I believe I had a fool idea that I'd find you in some scrubby suburban
practice.  Shows the bugs must have got into my brain too, doesn't it?  Now I suppose I'll
have to ask you to reduce your fees."

"I'll let you down easy.  Say, a guinea a consultation!"

"I could manage that--if you don't want to consult too often.  I've got my bit saved.  Not
much to squander on out there, except whisky, and I never took to that.  Besides--my father's
dead.  He didn't mean to leave me his money--you know how he loathed me--but there was a mix-up
over the will that was to cut me out--not properly witnessed or something. Anyhow, I came out
into a few thousand.  Rather a joke on the old man, wasn't it?"

"One might almost hope for another life if one were sure he were grinding his teeth over it."

A faint perplexity flickered across the sallow face.

"Oh, I don't know.  I don't seem to bear him any particular grudge now. Perhaps it would be
better if I could.  When one's young one judges very harshly.  Parents and kids don't understand
each other--not really--and don't always love each other either, if the truth were known. 
Why should they?  The old man and I were like strangers tied to one another by the leg.  I
used to think if I could pay him back for all the beastly times he gave me I'd die happy. 
But I don't feel like that now.  I expect he was pretty miserable himself.  There's too much
of that sort of thing for us to wish it on to one another."

"You're very tolerant," Stonehouse said.  "I'm not.  But then I haven't inherited anything."
He stopped abruptly and his manner hardened.  But Cosgrave did not pursue the subject.  His
interest had suddenly slumped into what was evidently an habitual apathy, and only when they
had paid their bill and drifted out into the street did he revert for a moment to the past.

"And the Gang--and Frances Wilmot?" he asked.  He looked shyly at his companion's profile,
which showed up for a moment in a bold, tranquil outline against the lamplight.  It betrayed
nothing.

"We might walk back to my rooms and talk in peace.  Oh--Francey Wilmot? I don't know much.
She went abroad--finished her course very late--she was always a bit of a dilettante.  People
with money usually are."

Cosgrave said no more.  He knew all he wanted to know.  It saddened him. Somehow he had counted
on that half-divined romance, had played with it in his fancy as with a kind of vicarious happiness.

3

On board the S.S. Launceston there had arrived, an hour before sailing, an American gentleman--a
certain Mr. Horace Fletcher, who, having been called home suddenly, had had to take what accommodation
he could get on the first available boat.  Two days later he had lain unconscious, strapped
to the captain's table, whilst the ship's doctor, a young man, himself in the horrible throes
of seasickness, had performed a radical operation for acute mastoiditis.  There had been no
facilities.  The whole thing had been in the last degree makeshift.  The half-trained stewardess
had held his instruments ready for him, and the sea-sickness, comic in retrospect, had weighed
heavily against Mr. Fletcher's chance of seeing land again.  Nevertheless, the eminent New
York surgeon, consulted at the first opportunity, had pronounced the operation a neat performance--under
the circumstances a masterpiece.

