Florence Barlowe, with malice toward all and charity to none, devoted her outward self to good
works of the conventional kind. She had several offers, but she never married, and she never
forgave George Addison for his failure to speak for that which he might have had for the asking.
Pride, not love, was the ruler of her heart--if she had one.

To those who have this Christmas tide the heart-ache, and the heart-break of love gone another
way, let them try this new cure, and remember the happy, successful life, and the ripe old
age, full of years and honor, of dear old George Addison, who wrote "The Poets and Poetry of
the South" and "Perfected Letter Writer."

THE LITTLE BLIND MAID

TO LADY CHARLOTTE

IV

THE LITTLE BLIND MAID

Overlooking a big smoky city which lies below, and a wide and winding river which runs beyond,
there is a large building on the top of a hill which is dedicated to education. But it was
built for the comfort and the pleasure of a certain rich man and his family.

Shortly after its occupation the owner died, leaving a large fortune, a young widow and three
daughters.

During the long period of mourning, which was strictly observed but only partially felt by
the widow, there came to live in the big house an attractive man of about five and thirty,
who had been both friend and partner of the merchant prince. He had been given entire charge
of the large estate, and he gave to it and the family most of his time. His habits were excellent,
but his tastes were convivial, and his little bachelor dinners the desire of his acquaintances
and the delight of his friends. His apartments were entirely separate from the family, but
he spent most of his unengaged evenings in their quiet little circle. The children called him
uncle, the mother called him Basil, and the people who knew them looked upon him as one related,
and spoke no gossip concerning them.

But one fine day that little fellow--always young--who is said to have wings and a quiver full
of arrows, came into the house. He kissed the mother, a woman of forty and with attractions
more than passing pleasant; he touched the heart of the eldest daughter, Rose, eighteen years
of age, and he took the bandage off of his own eyes and put it over the head of Basil, who
straightway thought he loved the daughter, who was a woman of no beauty, little intelligence
and less amiability. Being blind with the bandage of the boy Love, he could not see that the
mother had centered her full blown affections upon him. Therefore it came to pass that the
mother and daughter were rivals. He, being a man, did not understand; they, being women, did.
When he asked for the hand of her daughter he could not comprehend not only why she should
make denial, but why she stormed, wept bitter tears, filled his startled ears with unreasonable
reproaches, and upbraided him as an ingrate and a man without feeling.

Her opposition made him believe in his love for Rose, but shortly the beauty and the charm
of Grace, the second daughter, about sixteen, dissipated that belief, although he had pledged
himself with word and ring to Rose.

Grace, mortified by the rivalry between her mother and sister, and conscious of a growing passion
for the man who had, unintentionally, crept into the lives of three women in one household
bound by the closest ties of blood, fled the place, and went down the broad river to a little
town, where she found quiet and friendly shelter in the home of a relative. It was a curious
place, very old, and in the heart of evergreens. There was a young girl, Lydia, who was much
older, had loved, and knew that priceless art of bringing comfort to those who were loving
either wisely or too well. Letters, books, and gifts came from Basil bearing one burden--his
love for Grace. The mother, more jealous of Rose than of Grace, consented to his marriage with
either, and fell into a state of despondency which made quick and mysterious inroads upon her
hitherto excellent health.

When Grace, being called home by the alarming state of her mother's health, parted with Lydia,
she said:

"My duty is clear; I can not be the rival of my mother and Rose. I love him, but I must give
him up." And so she did, although the engagement between Rose and Basil was broken and never
renewed.

Rumor said cruel things about Basil: that he had wasted their beautiful estate and enriched
himself out of their many possessions. Anyhow, they left their mansion on the hill-top, and
it was sold to an institution of learning, and the grounds were divided and subdivided into
lots. The mother never recovered. After an illness of several years she died suddenly at some
winter resort, with the old name of Basil on her lips that formed the word and then were forever
still. Rose and Grace could look upon those familiar features and behold the trace of beauty
which time and disease had tenderly spared. But Mary, the third daughter, blind from her birth,
could only feel the face of her beloved and kiss the lips that could no longer speak her name.
Blind! and without a mother, even if she had been foolish for her years, and had, in an hour
of human weakness, yielded to a love which was useless, out of the question, unnatural. She
was twelve, yet the little blind maid was old enough to know her loss, to feel her sorrow.

Rose, cold, selfish, unsympathetic, lamenting the loss of a lover whom she had no power to
hold more than the death of her mother, feeling no love for the sister who had made for her
sake a useless sacrifice, was not a desirable companion for the little blind sister.

Grace, upon whom the care of the child had fallen these latter years, and who had been faithful
and loving to her charge, had begun to put worldly things from her, and when that long-expected
but sudden death came upon them, she resolved, after much meditation and prayer, to enter some
holy order and lead a life dedicated to the Master.

Clad in the robes of a Carmelite nun, she may have been too unmindful of the little blind one
who had clung to her and plead with her not to leave her alone with Rose. For after all, what
is raiment even if it be fine, aye, purple and fine linen; what is food, even if it be dainty
like the ambrosia of the Gods; what is warmth, what is comfort, what are all these things if
the heart be cold, naked and hungry? Grace had provided for her bodily comforts, but she had
failed to fill her own place left vacant with some heart that would be kind and loving to Mary,
blind and helpless.

After Grace entered the Carmelite Convent, which was many miles away from their old home, Rose
and Mary returned to the big smoky city, and were swallowed up in the multitude of people who
exist in buildings and houses, where men and women huddle together and have, as they had, a
certain amount of comfort, but lose their identity, and are finally swept away into that great
stagnant pool of obscurity where existence in great cities goes on and on without either ebb
or flow.

