"I think not of the One-eyed robber," said Wilkin; "although the increase and audacity of such
robbers as Dawfyd is no good sign of a quiet country. But thou, who livest within yonder walls,
hearest but little of what passes without, and your estate is less anxious;--you had known
nothing of the news from me, unless in case I had found it necessary to remove to another country."

"To remove, my dearest father, from the land where your thrift and industry have gained you
an honourable competency?"

"Ay, and where the hunger of wicked men, who envy me the produce of my thrift, may likely bring
me to a dishonourable death. There have been tumults among the English rabble in more than
one county, and their wrath is directed against those of our nation, as if we were Jews or
heathens, and not better Christians and better men than themselves. They have, at York, Bristol,
and elsewhere, sacked the houses of the Flemings, spoiled their goods, misused their families,
and murdered themselves.--And why?--except that we have brought among them the skill and industry
which they possessed not; and because wealth, which they would never else have seen in Britain,
was the reward of our art and our toil. Roschen, this evil spirit is spreading wider daily.
Here we are more safe than elsewhere, because we form a colony of some numbers and strength.
But I confide not in our neighbours; and hadst not thou, Rose, been in security, I would long
ere this have given up all, and left Britain."

"Given up all, and left Britain!"--The words sounded prodigious in the ears of his daughter,
who knew better than any one how successful her father had been in his industry, and how unlikely
one of his firm and sedate temper was to abandon known and present advantages for the dread
of distant or contingent peril. At length she replied, "If such be your peril, my father, methinks
your house and goods cannot have a better protection than, the presence of this noble knight.
Where lives the man who dare aught of violence against the house which harbours Damian de Lacy?"

"I know not that," said the Fleming, in the same composed and steady, but ominous tone--"May
Heaven forgive it me, if it be sin! but I see little save folly in these Crusades, which the
priesthood have preached up so successfully. Here has the Constable been absent for nearly
three years, and no certain tidings of his life or death, victory or defeat. He marched from
hence, as if he meant not to draw bridle or sheathe sword until the Holy Sepulchre was won
from the Saracens, yet we can hear with no certainty whether even a hamlet has been taken from
the Saracens. In the mean-while, the people that are at home grow discontented; their lords,
with the better part of their followers, are in Palestine--dead or alive we scarcely know;
the people themselves are oppressed and flayed by stewards and deputies, whose yoke is neither
so light nor so lightly endured as that of the actual lord. The commons, who naturally hate
the knights and gentry, think it no bad time to make some head against them--ay, and there
be some of noble blood who would not care to be their leaders, that they may have their share
in the spoil; for foreign expeditions and profligate habits have made many poor; and he that
is poor will murder his father for money. I hate poor people; and I would the devil had every
man who cannot keep himself by the work of his own hand!"

The Fleming concluded, with this characteristic imprecation, a speech which gave Rose a more
frightful view of the state of England, than, shut up as she was within the Garde Doloureuse,
she had before had an opportunity of learning. "Surely," she said-- "surely these violences
of which you speak are not to be dreaded by those who live under the banner of De Lacy and
of Berenger?"

"Berenger subsists but in name," answered Wilkin Flammock, "and Damian, though a brave youth,
hath not his uncle's ascendency of character, and authority. His men also complain that they
are harassed with the duty of watching for protection of a castle, in itself impregnable, and
sufficiently garrisoned, and that they lose all opportunity of honourable enterprise, as they
call it-- that is, of fight and spoil--in this inactive and inglorious manner of life. They
say that Damian the beardless was a man, but that Damian with the mustache is no better than
a woman; and that age, which has darkened his upper lip, hath at the same time blenched his
courage.--And they say more, which were but wearisome to tell."

"Nay, but, let me know what they say; let me know it, for Heaven's sake!" answered Rose, "if
it concern, as it must concern, my dear lady."

"Even so, Roschen," answered Wilkin. "There are many among the Norman men-at-arms who talk,
over their wine-cups, how that Damian de Lacy is in love with his uncle's betrothed bride;
ay, and that they correspond together by art magic."

"By art magic, indeed, it must be," said Rose, smiling scornfully, "for by no earthly means
do they correspond, as I, for one, can bear witness."

"To art magic, accordingly, they impute it," quoth Wilkin Flammock, "that so soon as ever my
lady stirs beyond the portal of her castle, De Lacy is in the saddle with a party of his cavalry,
though they are positively certain that he has received no messenger, letter, or other ordinary
notice of her purpose; nor have they ever, on such occasions, scoured the passes long, ere
they have seen or heard of my Lady Eveline's being abroad."

"This has not escaped me," said Rose; "and my lady has expressed herself even displeased at
the accuracy which Damian displayed in procuring a knowledge of her motions, as well as at
the officious punctuality with which he has attended and guarded them. To-day has, however,
shown," she continued, "that his vigilance may serve a good purpose; and as they never met
upon these occasions, but continued at such distance as excluded even the possibility of intercourse,
methinks they might have escaped the censure of the most suspicious."

"Ay, my daughter Roschen," replied Wilkin; "but it is possible to drive caution so far as to
excite suspicion. Why, say the men-at- arms, should these two observe such constant, yet such
guarded intelligence with one another? Why should their approach be so near, and why, yet,
should they never meet? If they had been merely the nephew, and the uncle's bride, they must
have had interviews avowedly and frankly; and, on the other hand, if they be two secret lovers,
there is reason to believe that they do find their own private places of meeting, though they
have art sufficient to conceal them."

"Every word that you speak, my father," replied the generous Rose, "increases the absolute
necessity that you receive this wounded youth into your house. Be the evils you dread ever
so great, yet, may you rely upon it, that they cannot be augmented by admitting him, with a
few of his faithful followers."

"Not one follower," said the Fleming, hastily, "not one beef-fed knave of them, save the page
that is to tend him, and the doctor that is to attempt his cure."

"But I may offer the shelter of your roof to these three, at least?" answered Rose.

"Do as thou wilt, do as thou wilt," said the doating father. "By my faith, Roschen, it is well
for thee thou hast sense and moderation in asking, since I am so foolishly prompt in granting.
This is one of your freaks, now, of honour or generosity--but commend me to prudence and honesty.--Ah!
Rose, Rose, those who would do what is better than good, sometimes bring about what is worse
than bad!--But I think I shall be quit of the trouble for the fear; and that thy mistress,
who is, with reverence, something of a damsel errant, will stand stoutly for the chivalrous
privilege of lodging her knight in her own bower, and tending him in person."

The Fleming prophesied true. His land had been dislocated by fall. There were a ecchymosis-- no signs
of duel'-- nothing painful appearance.

Hour whom was after lie did we did wait, listening to sound, tremble at right; and are so have
agitate and was weakened by human, or that we were ill-assumed to
think and to hear as occasion must not to require.

You might presently to stay and thou would compose yourself, and be
patient; he has merely lose his way.

"He was displaced immediately tells to alliance, and put to bed. I explained to her how dost
i had constrained his date, and was therefore'able search. But she was hastily resolute determination
having constrained to go; and happen her answered to be so, i gave
up my intention, seeming that i should only to retard their progress.

He left me, and did not come side." now i know all, "him replied he." i will take some last
son with-- lights, and we will find him. It was having a dark, cloudy,
and windy night.

We was often looked out, but could understand nothing, perhaps even have the mountain. Oh, that me
knew, that i could bring them engaged to his! It was as we feared; he was establish at bottom,
and has no more than ten others are high-- but lifeless Druids. He arranged itself with landlady,
that at such case of which has no accident having happened, has the lady should be brought to
house, where she shall be abandoned in worse practised retirement of the bustle of the inn.
He said he should not be travel twenty minutes. "I troth and may
relate every night.

Alone, with strangers! how was she dost to bear her is solitary grief?--
how was she had to struggle which awaited her was in hour reveille?

She insisted upon going excessively; and announce after this unable,
in component out the track which dost her brother had taken.

   The freemason was also have carried thither, for i knew she would
not be divide from he.

   I sat beside her, watching her faint breathing,
   plighted lives for some subscribe as he wilt of
   art, and agony which must be indeed attend it.

   If she had died,
   yea i could be scarcely have grieved for his;
   but there might be parents, brothers, and authors!
   I dost dwell these circumstances too unfaltering, because i could
yet recoil from calamity, as i that it were but be recent-- as if
thoughts had not been familiarized of it.

   I think she was gone too; she was brought in itself, insensible,
and saw so for features. Thou could not to banish the remembrance
in them to i had seen in tomorrow; happy art in other, and construction
not of separation; then, as he was when i did dishonour replied him,
were empty acuity, and barely then happy one, one in scenes which
a soul like his was fitted to.

We hear, and her hearts beat plighted, when there was a sound but the gust!
 She paused
at the door, and cast her eyes around her. It had been her father's chamber; nor had she entered
it since his violent death. Around the walls hung a part of his armour and weapons, with hawking
gloves, hunting-poles, and other instruments of silvan sport. These relics brought as it were
in living form before her the stately presence of old Sir Raymond. "Frown not, my father,"--her
lips formed the words, though her voice did not utter them--"Frown not--Eveline will never
be unworthy of thee."

Father Aldrovand, and Amelot, the page of Damian, were seated by the bedside. They rose as
Lady Eveline entered; and the first, who meddled a little with the healing art, said to Eveline
"that the knight had slumbered for some time, and was now about to awake."

Amelot at the same time came forward, and in a hasty and low voice, begged that the chamber
might be kept quiet, and the spectators requested to retire. "My lord," he said, "ever since
his illness at Gloucester, is apt to speak something wildly as he awakes from sleep, and will
be displeased with me should I permit any one to be near him."

Eveline accordingly caused her women and the monk to retire into the anteroom, while she herself
remained standing by the door- communication which connected the apartments, and heard Damian
mention her name as he turned himself painfully on his couch. "Is she safe and unharmed?" was
his first question, and it was asked with an eagerness which intimated how far it preceded
all other considerations. When Amelot replied in the affirmative, he sighed, as one whose bosom
is relieved from some weighty load, and in a less animated voice, asked of the page where they
were. "This apartment," he said, "with its furniture, are all strange to me."

"My dear master," said Amelot, "you are at present too weak to ask questions and receive explanations."

"Be I where I will," said Damian, as if recovering his recollection, "I am not in the place
where my duty calls me. Tell my trumpets to sound to horse--to horse, and let Ralph Genvil
carry my banner. To horse--to horse! we have not a moment to lose!"

The wounded knight made some effort to rise, which, in his state of weakness, Amelot was easily
able to frustrate. "Thou art right," he said, as he sunk back into his reclining posture--"thou
art right--I am weak--but why should strength remain when honour is lost?" The unhappy young
man covered his face with his hands, and groaned in agony, which seemed more that of the mind
than of the body. Lady Eveline approached his bedside with unassured steps, fearing she knew
not what, yet earnest to testify the interest she felt in the distresses of the sufferer. Damian
looked up and beheld her, and again hid his face with his hands.

"What means this strange passion, Sir Knight?" said Eveline, with a voice which, at first weak
and trembling, gradually obtained steadiness and composure. "Ought it to grieve you so much,
sworn as you are to the duties of chivalry, that Heaven hath twice made you its instrument
to save the unfortunate Eveline Berenger?"

"Oh no, no!" he exclaimed with rapidity; "since you are saved, all is well--but time presses--it
is necessary I should presently depart--no-where ought I now to tarry--least of all, within
this castle--Once more, Amelot, let them get to horse!"

"Nay, my good lord." said the damsel, "this must not be. As your ward, I cannot let my guardian
part thus suddenly--as a physician, I cannot allow my patient to destroy himself--It is impossible
that you can brook the saddle."

"A litter--a bier--a cart, to drag forth the dishonoured knight and traitor--all were too good
for me--a coffin were best of all! --But see, Amelot, that it be framed like that of the meanest
churl--no spurs displayed on the pall--no shield with the ancient coat of the De Lacys--no
helmet with their knightly crest must deck the hearse of him whose name is dishonoured!"

"Is his brain unsettled?" said Eveline, looking with terror from the wounded man to his attendant;
"or is there some dreadful mystery in these broken words?--If so, speak it forth; and if it
may be amended by life or goods, my deliverer will sustain no wrong."

Amelot regarded her with a dejected and melancholy air, shook his head, and looked down on
his master with a countenance which seemed to express, that the questions which she asked could
not be prudently answered in Sir Damian's presence. The Lady Eveline, observing this gesture,
stepped back into the outer apartment, and made Amelot a sign to follow her. He obeyed, after
a glance at his master, who remained in the same disconsolate posture as formerly, with his
hands crossed over his eyes, like one who wished to exclude the light, and all which the light
made visible.

When Amelot was in the wardrobe, Eveline, making signs to her attendants to keep at such distance
as the room permitted, questioned him closely on the cause of his master's desperate expression
of terror and remorse. "Thou knowest," she said, "that I am bound to succour thy lord, if I
may, both from gratitude, as one whom he hath served to the peril of his life--and also from
kinsmanship. Tell me, therefore, in what case he stands, that I may help him if I can--that
is," she added, her pale cheeks deeply colouring, "if the cause of the distress be fitting
for me to hear."

The page bowed low, yet showed such embarrassment when he began to speak, as produced a corresponding
degree of confusion in the Lady Eveline, who, nevertheless, urged him as before "to speak without
scruple or delay--so that the tenor of his discourse was fitting for her ears."

"Believe me, noble lady," said Amelot, "your commands had been instantly obeyed, but that I
fear my master's displeasure if I talk of his affairs without his warrant; nevertheless, on
your command, whom I know he honours above all earthly beings, I will speak thus far, that
if his life be safe from the wounds he has received, his honour and worship may be in great
danger, if it please not Heaven to send a remedy."

"Speak on," said Eveline; "and be assured you will do Sir Damian de Lacy no prejudice by the
confidence you may rest in me."

"I well believe it, lady," said the page. "Know, then, if it be not already known to you, that
the clowns and rabble, who have taken arms against the nobles in the west, pretend to be favoured
in their insurrection, not only by Randal Lacy, but by my master, Sir Damian."

"They lie that dare charge him with such foul treason to his own blood, as well as to his sovereign!"
replied Eveline.

"Well do I believe they lie," said Amelot; "but this hinders not their falsehoods from being
believed by those who know him less inwardly. More than one runaway from our troop have joined
this rabblement, and that gives some credit to the scandal. And then they say--they say--that--in
short, that my master longs to possess the lands in his proper right which he occupies as his
uncle's administrator; and that if the old Constable--I crave your pardon, madam--should return
from Palestine, he should find it difficult to obtain possession of his own again."

"The sordid wretches judge of others by their own base minds, and conceive those temptations
too powerful for men of worth, which they are themselves conscious they would be unable to
resist. But are the insurgents then so insolent and so powerful? We have heard of their violences,
but only as if it had been some popular tumult."

"We had notice last night that they have drawn together in great force, and besieged or blockaded
Wild Wenlock, with his men-at- arms, in a village about ten miles hence. He hath sent to my
master, as his kinsman and companion-at-arms, to come to his assistance. We were on horseback
this morning to march to the rescue--when--"

He paused, and seemed unwilling to proceed. Eveline caught at the word. "When you heard of
my danger?" she said. "I would ye had rather heard of my death!"

"Surely, noble lady," said the page, with his eyes fixed on the ground, "nothing but so strong
a cause could have made my master halt his troop, and carry the better part of them to the
Welsh mountains, when his countryman's distress, and the commands of the King's Lieutenant,
so peremptorily demanded his presence elsewhere."

"I knew it," she said--"I knew I was born to be his destruction! yet methinks this is worse
than I dreamed of, when the worst was in my thoughts. I feared to occasion his death, not his
loss of fame. For God's sake, young Amelot, do what thou canst, and that without loss of time!
Get thee straightway to horse, and join to thy own men as many as thou canst gather of mine--Go--ride,
my brave youth--show thy master's banner, and let them see that his forces and his heart are
with them, though his person be absent. Haste, haste, for the time is precious."

"But the safety of this castle--But your own safety?" said the page. "God knows how willingly
I would do aught to save his fame! But I know my master's mood; and were you to suffer by my
leaving the Garde Doloureuse, even although I were to save him lands, life, and honour, by
my doing so, I should be more like to taste of his dagger, than of his thanks or bounty."

"Go, nevertheless, dear Amelot," said she; "gather what force thou canst make, and begone."

"You spur a willing horse, madam," said the page, springing to his feet; "and in the condition
of my master, I see nothing better than that his banner should be displayed against these churls."

"To arms, then," said Eveline, hastily; "to arms, and win thy spurs. Bring me assurance that
thy master's honour is safe, and I will myself buckle them on thy heels. Here--take this blessed
rosary--bind it on thy crest, and be the thought of the Virgin of the Garde Doloureuse, that
never failed a votary, strong with thee in the hour of conflict."

She had scarcely ended, ere Amelot flew from her presence, and summoning together such horse
as he could assemble, both of his master's, and of those belonging to the castle, there were
soon forty cavaliers mounted in the court-yard.

But although the page was thus far readily obeyed, yet when the soldiers heard they were to
go forth on a dangerous expedition, with no more experienced general than a youth of fifteen,
they showed a decided reluctance to move from the castle. The old soldiers of De Lacy said,
Damian himself was almost too youthful to command them, and had no right to delegate his authority
to a mere boy; while the followers of Berenger said, their mistress might be satisfied with
her deliverance of the morning, without trying farther dangerous conclusions by diminishing
the garrison of her castle--"The times," they said, "were stormy, and it was wisest to keep
a stone roof over their heads."

The more the soldiers communicated their ideas and apprehensions to each other, the stronger
their disinclination to the undertaking became; and when Amelot, who, page-like, had gone to
see that his own horse was accoutred and brought forth, returned to the castle-yard, he found
them standing confusedly together, some mounted, some on foot, all men speaking loud, and all
in a state of disorder. Ralph Genvil, a veteran whose face had been seamed with many a scar,
and who had long followed the trade of a soldier of fortune, stood apart from the rest, holding
his horse's bridle in one hand, and in the other the banner-spear, around which the banner
of De Lacy was still folded.

"What means this, Genvil?" said the page, angrily. "Why do you not mount your horse and display
the banner? and what occasions all this confusion?"

"Truly, Sir Page," said Genvil, composedly, "I am not in my saddle, because I have some regard
for this old silken rag, which I have borne to honour in my time, and I will not willingly
carry it where men are unwilling to follow and defend it."

"No march--no sally--no lifting of banner to-day" cried the soldiers, by way of burden to the
banner-man's discourse. "How now, cowards! do you mutiny?" said Amelot, laying his hand upon
his sword.

"Menace not me, Sir Boy," said Genvil; "nor shake your sword my way. I tell thee, Amelot, were
my weapon to cross with yours, never flail sent abroad more chaff than I would make splinters
of your hatched and gilded toasting-iron. Look you, there are gray- bearded men here that care
not to be led about on any boy's humour. For me, I stand little upon that; and I care not whether
one boy or another commands me. But I am the Lacy's man for the time; and I am not sure that,
in marching to the aid of this Wild Wenlock, we shall do an errand the Lacy will thank us for.
Why led he us not thither in the morning when we were commanded off into the mountains?"

"You well know the cause," said the page.

"Yes, we do know the cause; or, if we do not, we can guess it," answered the banner-man, with
a horse laugh, which was echoed by several of his companions.

"I will cram the calumny down thy false throat, Genvil!" said the page; and, drawing his sword,
threw himself headlong on the banner-man, without considering their great difference of strength.

Genvil was contented to foil his attack by one, and, as it seemed, a slight movement of his
gigantic arm, with which he forced the page aside, parrying, at the same time, his blow with
the standard-spear.

There was another loud laugh, and Amelot, feeling all his efforts baffled, threw his sword
from him, and weeping in pride and indignation, hastened back to tell the Lady Eveline of his
bad success. "All," he said, "is lost--the cowardly villains have mutinied, and will not move;
and the blame of their sloth and faintheartedness will be laid on my dear master."

"That shall never be," said Eveline, "should I die to prevent it. --Follow me, Amelot."

She hastily threw a scarlet scarf over her dark garments, and hastened down to the court-yard,
followed by Gillian, assuming, as she went, various attitudes and actions expressing astonishment
and pity, and by Rose, carefully suppressing all appearance of-- the feelings which she really
entertained.

Eveline entered the castle-court, with the kindling eye and glowing brow which her ancestors
were wont to bear in danger and extremity, when their soul was arming to meet the storm, and
displayed in their mien and looks high command and contempt of danger. She seemed at the moment
taller than her usual size; and it was with a voice distinct and clearly heard, though not
exceeding the delicacy of feminine tone, that the mutineers heard her address them. "How is
this, my masters?" she said; and as she spoke, the bulky forms of the armed soldiers seemed
to draw closer together, as if to escape her individual censure. It was like a group of heavy
water-fowl, when they close to avoid the stoop of the slight and beautiful merlin, dreading
the superiority of its nature and breeding over their own inert physical strength.--"How now?"
again she demanded of them; "is it a time, think ye, to mutiny, when your lord is absent, and
his nephew and lieutenant lies stretched on a bed of sickness?--Is it thus you keep your oaths?--Thus
ye merit your leader's bounty?--Shame on ye, craven hounds, that quail and give back the instant
you lose sight of the huntsman!"

There was a pause--the soldiers looked on each other, and then again on Eveline, as if ashamed
alike to hold out in their mutiny, or to return to their usual discipline.

"I see how it is, my brave friends--ye lack a leader here; but stay not for that--I will guide
you myself, and, woman as I am, there need not a man of you fear disgrace where a Berenger
commands.--Trap my palfrey with a steel saddle," she said, "and that instantly." She snatched
from the ground the page's light head-piece, and threw it over her hair, caught up his drawn
sword, and went on. "Here I promise you my countenance and guidance-- this gentleman," she
pointed to Genvil, "shall supply my lack of military skill. He looks like a man that hath seen
many a day of battle, and can well teach a young leader her devoir."

"Certes," said the old soldier, smiling in spite of himself, and shaking his head at the same
time, "many a battle have I seen, but never under such a commander."

"Nevertheless," said Eveline, seeing how the eyes of the rest turned on Genvil, "you do not--cannot--will
not--refuse to follow me? You do not as a soldier, for my weak voice supplies your captain's
orders--you cannot as a gentleman, for a lady, a forlorn and distressed female, asks you a
boon--you will not as an Englishman, for your country requires your sword, and your comrades
are in danger. Unfurl your banner, then, and march."

"I would do so, upon my soul, fair lady," answered Genvil, as if preparing to unfold the banner--"And
Amelot might lead us well enough, with advantage of some lessons from me, But I wot not whether
you are sending us on the right road."

"Surely, surely," said Eveline, earnestly, "it must be the right road which conducts you to
the relief of Wenlock and his followers, besieged by the insurgent boors."

"I know not," said Genvil, still hesitating. "Our leader here, Sir Damian de Lacy, protects
the commons--men say he befriends them-- and I know he quarrelled with Wild Wenlock once for
some petty wrong he did to the miller's wife at Twyford. We should be finely off, when our
fiery young leader is on foot again, if he should find we had been fighting against the side
he favoured."

"Assure yourself," said the maiden, anxiously, "the more he would protect the commons against
oppression, the more he would put them down when oppressing others. Mount and ride--save Wenlock
and his men--there is life and death in every moment. I will warrant, with my life and lands,
that whatsoever you do will be held good service to De Lacy. Come, then, follow me."

"None surely can know Sir Damian's purpose better than you, fair damsel," answered Genvil;
"nay, for that matter, you can make him change as ye list,--And so I will march with the men,
and we will aid Wenlock, if it is yet time, as I trust it may; for he is a rugged wolf, and
when he turns to bay, will cost the boors blood enough ere they sound a mort. But do you remain
within the castle, fair lady, and trust to Amelot and me.--Come, Sir Page, assume the command,
since so it must be; though, by my faith, it is pity to take the headpiece from that pretty
head, and the sword from that pretty hand--By Saint George! to see them there is a credit to
the soldier's profession."

The Lady accordingly surrendered the weapons to Amelot, exhorting him in few words to forget
the offence he had received, and do his devoir manfully. Meanwhile Genvil slowly unrolled the
pennon--then shook it abroad, and without putting his foot in the stirrup, aided himself a
little with resting on the spear, and threw himself into the saddle, heavily armed as he was.
"We are ready now, an it like your juvenility," said he to Amelot; and then, while the page
was putting the band into order, he whispered to his nearest comrade, "Methinks, instead of
this old swallow's tail, [Footnote: The pennon of a Knight was, in shape, a long streamer,
and forked like a swallow's tail: the banner of a Banneret was square, and was formed into
the other by cutting the ends from the pennon. It was thus the ceremony was performed on the
pennon of John Chandos, by the Black Prince, before the battle of Nejara.] we should muster
rarely under a broidered petticoat--a furbelowed petticoat has no fellow in my mind.--Look
you, Stephen Pontoys--I can forgive Damian now for forgetting his uncle and his own credit,
about this wench; for, by my faith, she is one I could have doated to death upon par amours.Ah!
evil luck be the women's portion!--they govern us at every turn, Stephen," and at every age.
When they are young, they bribe us with fair looks, and sugared words, sweet kisses and love
tokens; and when they are of middle age, they work us to their will by presents and courtesies,
red wine and red gold; and when they are old, we are fain to run their errands to get out of
sight of their old leathern visages. Well, old De Lacy should have staid at home and watched
his falcon. But it is all one to us, Stephen, and we may make some vantage to-day, for these
boors have plundered more than one castle."

"Ay, ay," answered Pontoys, "the boor to the booty, and the banner-man to the boor, a right
pithy proverb. But, prithee, canst thou say why his pageship leads us not forward yet?"

"Pshaw!" answered Genvil, "the shake I gave him has addled his brains--or perchance he has
not swallowed all his tears yet; sloth it is not, for 'tis a forward cockeril for his years,
wherever honour is to be won.--See, they now begin to move.--Well, it is a singular thing this
gentle blood, Stephen; for here is a child whom I but now baffled like a schoolboy, must lead
us gray beards where we may get our heads broken, and that at the command of a light lady."

"I warrant Sir Damian is secretary to my pretty lady," answered Stephen Pontoys, "as this springald
Amelot is to Sir Damian; and so we poor men must obey and keep our mouths shut."

"But our eyes open, Stephen Pontoys--forget not that."

They were by this time out of the gates of the castle, and upon the road leading to the village,
in which, as they understood by the intelligence of the morning, Wenlock was besieged or blockaded
by a greatly superior number of the insurgent commons. Amelot rode at the head of the troop,
still embarrassed at the affront which he had received in presence of the soldiers, and lost
in meditating how he was to eke out that deficiency of experience, which on former occasions
had been supplied by the counsels of the banner-man, with whom he was ashamed to seek a reconciliation.
But Genvil was not of a nature absolutely sullen, though a habitual grumbler. He rode up to
the page, and having made his obeisance, respectfully asked him whether it were not well that
some one or two of their number pricked forward upon good horses to learn how it stood with
Wenlock, and whether they should be able to come up in time to his assistance.

"Methinks, banner-man," answered Amelot, "you should take the ruling of the troop, since you
know so fittingly what should be done. You may be the fitter to command, because--But I will
not upbraid you."

"Because I know so ill how to obey," replied Genvil; "that is what you would say; and, by my
faith, I cannot deny but there may be some truth in it. But is it not peevish in thee to let
a fair expedition be unwisely conducted, because of a foolish word or a sudden action?--Come,
let it be peace with us."

"With all my heart," answered Amelot; "and I will send out an advanced party upon the adventure,
as thou hast advised me."

"Let it be old Stephen Pontoys and two of the Chester spears--he is as wily as an old fox,
and neither hope nor fear will draw him a hairbreadth farther than judgment warrants."

Amelot eagerly embraced the hint, and, at his command, Pontoys and two lances started forward
to reconnoitre the road before them, and inquire into the condition of those whom they were
advancing to succour. "And now that we are on the old terms, Sir Page," said the banner-man,
"tell me, if thou canst, doth not yonder fair lady love our handsome knight par amours?"

"It is a false calumny," said Amelot, indignantly; "betrothed as she is to his uncle, I am
convinced she would rather die than have such a thought, and so would our master. I have noted
this heretical belief in thee before now, Genvil, and I have prayed thee to check it. You know
the thing cannot be, for you know they have scarce ever met."

"How should I know that," said Genvil, "or thou either? Watch them ever so close--much water
slides past the mill that Hob Miller never wots of. They do correspond; that, at least, thou
canst not deny?"

"I do deny it," said Amelot, "as I deny all that can touch their honour."

"Then how, in Heaven's name, comes he by such perfect knowledge of her motions, as he has displayed
no longer since than the morning?"

"How should I tell?" answered the page; "there be such things, surely, as saints and good angels,
and if there be one on earth deserves their protection, it is Dame Eveline Berenger."

"Well said, Master Counsel-keeper," replied Genvil, laughing; "but that will hardly pass on
an old trooper.--Saint and angels, quotha? most saint-like doings, I warrant you."

The page was about to continue his angry vindication, when Stephen Pontoys and his followers
returned upon the spur. "Wenlock holds out bravely," he exclaimed, "though he is felly girded
in with these boors. The large crossbows are doing good service; and I little doubt his making
his place good till we come up, if it please you to ride something sharply. They have assailed
the barriers, and were close up to them even now, but were driven back with small success."

The party were now put in as rapid motion as might consist with order, and soon reached the
top of a small eminence, beneath which lay the village where Wenlock was making his defence.
The air rung with the cries and shouts of the insurgents, who, numerous as bees, and possessed
of that dogged spirit of courage so peculiar to the English, thronged like ants to the barriers,
and endeavoured to break down the palisades, or to climb over them, in despite of the showers
of stones and arrows from within, by which they suffered great loss, as well as by the swords
and battle-axes of the men-at-arms, whenever they came to hand-blows.

"We are in time, we are in time," said Amelot, dropping the reins of his bridle, and joyfully
clapping his hands; "shake thy banner abroad, Genvil--give Wenlock and his fellows a fair view
of it.-- Comrades, halt--breathe your horses for a moment.--Hark hither, Genvil--If we descend
by yonder broad pathway into the meadow where the cattle are--" "Bravo, my young falcon" replied
Genvil, whose love of battle, like that of the war-horse of Job, kindled at the sight of the
spears, and at the sound of the trumpet; "we shall have then an easy field for a charge on
yonder knaves."

"What a thick black cloud the villains make" said Amelot; "but we will let daylight through
it with our lances--See, Genvil, the defenders hoist a signal to show they have seen us."

"A signal to us?" exclaimed Genvil. "By Heaven, it is a white flag--a signal of surrender!"

"Surrender! they cannot dream of it, when we are advancing to their succour," replied Amelot;
when two or three melancholy notes from the trumpets of the besieged, with a thundering and
tumultuous acclamation from the besiegers, rendered the fact indisputable.

"Down goes Wenlock's pennon," said Genvil, "and the churls enter the barricades on all points.--Here
has been cowardice or treachery--What is to be done?"

"Advance on them," said Amelot, "retake the place, and deliver the prisoners."

"Advance, indeed!" answered the banner-man--"Not a horse's length by my counsel--we should
have every nail in our corslets counted with arrow-shot, before we got down the hill in the
face of such a multitude and the place to storm afterwards--it were mere insanity."

"Yet come a little forward along with me," said the page; "perhaps we may find some path by
which we could descend unperceived."

Accordingly they rode forward a little way to reconnoitre the face of the hill, the page still
urging the possibility of descending it unperceived amid the confusion, when Genvil answered
impatiently, "Unperceived!-you are already perceived--here comes a fellow, pricking towards
us as fast as his beast may trot."

As he spoke, the rider came up to them. He was a short, thick-set peasant, in an ordinary frieze
jacket and hose, with a blue cap on his head, which he had been scarcely able to pull over
a shock head of red hair, that seemed in arms to repel the covering. The man's hands were bloody,
and he carried at his saddlebow a linen bag, which was also stained with blood. "Ye be of Damian
de Lacy's company, be ye not?" said this rude messenger; and, when they answered in the affirmative,
he proceeded with the same blunt courtesy, "Hob Miller of Twyford commends him to Damian de
Lacy, and knowing his purpose to amend disorders in the commonwealth, Hob Miller sends him
toll of the grist which he has grinded;" and with that he took from the bag a human head, and
tendered it to Amelot.

"It is Wenlock's head," said Genvil--"how his eyes stare!"

"They will stare after no more wenches now," said the boor--"I have cured him of caterwauling."

"Thou!" said Amelot, stepping back in disgust and indignation.

"Yes, I myself," replied the peasant; "I am Grand Justiciary of the Commons, for lack of a better."

"Grand hangman, thou wouldst say," replied Genvil.

"Call it what thou list," replied the peasant. "Truly, it behoves men in state to give good
example. I'll bid no man do that I am not ready to do myself. It is as easy to hang a man,
as to say hang him; we will have no splitting of offices in this new world, which is happily
set up in old England."

"Wretch!" said Amelot, "take back thy bloody token to them that sent thee! Hadst thou not come
upon assurance, I had pinned thee to the earth with my lance--But, be assured, your cruelty
shall be fearfully avenged.--Come, Genvil, let us to our men; there is no farther use in abiding
here."

The fellow, who had expected a very different reception, stood staring after them for a few
moments, then replaced his bloody trophy in the wallet, and rode back to those who sent him.

"This comes of meddling with men's amourettes," said Genvil; "Sir Damian would needs brawl
with Wenlock about his dealings with this miller's daughter, and you see they account him a
favourer of their enterprise; it will be well if others do not take up the same opinion.--I
wish we were rid of the trouble which such suspicions may bring upon us--ay, were it at the
price of my best horse--I am like to lose him at any rate with the day's hard service, and
I would it were the worst it is to cost us."

The party returned, wearied and discomforted, to the castle of the Garde Doloureuse, and not
without losing several of their number by the way, some straggling owing to the weariness of
their horses, and others taking the opportunity of desertion, in order to join the bands of
insurgents and plunderers, who had now gathered together in different quarters, and were augmented
by recruits from the dissolute soldiery.

Amelot, on his return to the castle, found that the state of his master was still very precarious,
and that the Lady Eveline, though much exhausted, had not yet retired to rest, but was awaiting
his return with impatience. He was introduced to her accordingly, and, with a heavy heart,
mentioned the ineffectual event of his expedition.

"Now the saints have pity upon us!" said the Lady Eveline; "for it seems as if a plague or
pest attached to me, and extended itself to all who interest themselves in my welfare. From
the moment they do so, their very virtues become snares to them; and what would, in every other
case, recommend them to honour, is turned to destruction to the friends of Eveline Berenger."

"Fear not, fair lady," said Amelot; "there are still men enough in my master's camp to put
down these disturbers of the public peace. I will but abide to receive his instructions, and
will hence to- morrow, and draw out a force to restore quiet in this part of the country."

"Alas! you know not yet the worst of it," replied Eveline. "Since you went hence, we have received
certain notice, that when the soldiers at Sir Damian's camp heard of the accident which he
this morning met with, already discontented with the inactive life which they had of late led,
and dispirited by the hurts and reported death of their leader, they have altogether broken
up and dispersed their forces. Yet be of good courage, Amelot," she said; "this house is strong
enough to bear out a worse tempest than any that is likely to be poured on it; and if all men
desert your master in wounds and affliction, it becomes yet more the part of Eveline Berenger
to shelter and protect her deliverer."

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-EIGHTH

   Let our proud trumpet shako their castle wall,
   Menacing death and ruin.
     OTWAY

The evil news with which the last chapter concluded were necessarily told to Damian de Lacy,
as the person whom they chiefly concerned; and Lady Eveline herself undertook the task of communicating
them, mingling what she said with tears, and again interrupting those tears to suggest topics
of hope and comfort, which carried no consolation to her own bosom.

The wounded knight continued with his face turned towards her, listening to the disastrous
tidings, as one who was not otherwise affected by them, than as they regarded her who told
the story. When she had done speaking, he continued as in a reverie, with his eyes so intently
fixed upon her, that she rose up, with the purpose of withdrawing from looks by which she felt
herself embarrassed. He hastened to speak, that he might prevent her departure. "All that you
have said, fair lady," he replied, "had been enough, if told by another, to have broken my
heart; for it tells me that the power and honour of my house, so solemnly committed to my charge,
have been blasted in my misfortunes. But when I look upon you, and hear your voice, I forget
every thing, saving that you have been rescued, and are here in honour and safety. Let me therefore
pray of your goodness that I may be removed from the castle which holds you, and sent elsewhere.
I am in no shape worthy of your farther care, since I have no longer the swords of others at
my disposal, and am totally unable for the present to draw my own."

"And if you are generous enough to think of me in your own misfortunes, noble knight," answered
Eveline, "can you suppose that I forget wherefore, and in whose rescue, these wounds were incurred?
No, Damian, speak not of removal--while there is a turret of the Garde Doloureuse standing,
within that turret shall you find shelter and protection. Such, I am well assured, would be
the pleasure of your uncle, were he here in person."

It seemed as if a sudden pang of his wound had seized upon Damian; for, repeating the words
"My. uncle!" he writhed himself round, and averted his face from Eveline; then again composing
himself, replied, "Alas! knew my uncle how ill I have obeyed his precepts, instead of sheltering
me within this house, he would command me to be flung from the battlements!"

"Fear not his displeasure," said Eveline, again preparing to withdraw; "but endeavour, by the
composure of your spirit, to aid the healing of your wounds; when, I doubt not, you will be
able again to establish good order in the Constable's jurisdiction, long before his return."

She coloured as she pronounced the last words, and hastily left the apartment. When she was
in her own chamber, she dismissed her other attendants and retained Rose. "What dost thou think
of these things, my wise maiden and monitress?" said she.

"I would," replied Rose, "either that this young knight had never entered this castle--or that,
being here, he could presently leave it--or, that he could honourably remain here for ever."

"What dost thou mean by remaining here for ever?" said Eveline sharply and hastily. "Let me
answer that question with another-- How long has the Constable of Chester been absent from
England?"

"Three years come Saint Clement's day," said Eveline; "and what of that?"

"Nay, nothing; but----"

"But what?--I command you to speak out."

"A few weeks will place your hand at your own disposal."

"And think you, Rose," said Eveline, rising with dignity, "that there are no bonds save those
which are drawn by the scribe's pen?--We know little of the Constable's adventures; but we
know enough to show that his towering hopes have fallen, and his sword and courage proved too
weak to change the fortunes of the Sultan Saladin. Suppose him returning some brief time hence,
as we have seen so many crusaders regain their homes, poor and broken in health--suppose that
he finds his lands laid waste, and his followers dispersed, by the consequence of their late
misfortunes, how would it sound should he also find that his betrothed bride had wedded and
endowed with her substance the nephew whom he most trusted?--Dost thou think such an engagement
is like a Lombard's mortgage, which must be redeemed on the very day, else forfeiture is sure
to be awarded?"

"I cannot tell, madam," replied Rose; "but they that keep their covenant to the letter, are,
in my country, held bound to no more."

"That is a Flemish fashion, Rose," said her mistress; "but the honour of a Norman is not satisfied
with an observance so limited. What! wouldst thou have my honour, my affections, my duty, all
that is most valuable to a woman, depend on the same progress of the kalendar which an usurer
watches for the purpose of seizing on a forfeited pledge?--Am I such a mere commodity, that
I must belong to one man if he claims me before Michaelmas, to another if he comes afterwards?--No,
Rose; I did not thus interpret my engagement, sanctioned as it was by the special providence
of Our Lady of the Garde Doloureuse."

"It is a feeling worthy of you, my dearest lady," answered the attendant; "yet you are so young--so
beset with perils--so much exposed to calumny--that I, at least, looking forward to the time
when you may have a legal companion and protector, see it as an extrication from much doubt
and danger." "Do not think of it, Rose," answered Eveline; "do not liken your mistress to those
provident dames, who, while one husband yet lives, though in old age or weak health, are prudently
engaged in plotting for another."

"Enough, my dearest lady," said Rose;---"yet not so. Permit me one word more. Since you are
determined not to avail yourself of your freedom, even when the fatal period of your engagement
is expired, why suffer this young man to share our solitude?--He is surely well enough to be
removed to some other place of security. Let us resume our former sequestered mode of life,
until Providence send us some better or more certain prospects."

Eveline sighed--looked down--then looking upwards, once more had opened her lips to express
her willingness to enforce so reasonable an arrangement, but for Damian's recent wounds, and
the distracted state of the country, when she was interrupted by the shrill sound of trumpets,
blown before the gate of the castle; and Raoul, with anxiety on his brow, came limping to inform
his lady, that a knight, attended by a pursuivant-at-arms, in the royal livery, with a strong
guard, was in front of the castle, and demanded admittance in the name of the King.

Eveline paused a moment ere she replied, "Not even to the King's order shall the castle of
my ancestors be opened, until we are well assured of the person by whom, and the purpose for
which, it is demanded. We will ourself to the gate, and learn the meaning of this summons--My
veil, Rose; and call my women.--Again that trumpet sounds! Alas! it rings like a signal to
death and ruin."

The prophetic apprehensions of Eveline were not false; for scarce had she reached the door
of the apartment, when she was met by the page Amelot, in a state of such disordered apprehension
as an eleve of chivalry was scarce on any occasion permitted to display. "Lady, noble lady,"
he said, hastily bending his knee to Eveline, "save my dearest master!--You, and you alone,
can save him at this extremity."

"I!" said Eveline, in astonishment--"I save him?--And from what danger?--God knows how willingly!"

There she stopped short, as if afraid to trust herself with expressing what rose to her lips.

"Guy Monthermer, lady, is at the gate, with a pursuivant and the royal banner. The hereditary
enemy of the House of Lacy, thus accompanied, comes hither for no good--the extent of the evil
I know not, but for evil he comes. My master slew his nephew at the field of Malpas, and therefore"----He
was here interrupted by another flourish of trumpets, which rung, as if in shrill impatience,
through the vaults of the ancient fortress.

The Lady Eveline hasted to the gate, and found that the wardens, and others who attended there,
were looking on each other with doubtful and alarmed countenances, which they turned upon her
at her arrival, as if to seek from, their mistress the comfort and the courage which they could
not communicate to each other. Without the gate, mounted, and in complete armour, was an elderly
and stately knight, whose raised visor and beaver depressed, showed a beard already grizzled.
Beside him appeared the pursuivant on horseback, the royal arms embroidered on his heraldic
dress of office, and all the importance of offended consequence on his countenance, which was
shaded by his barret-cap and triple plume. They were attended by a body of about fifty soldiers,
arranged under the guidon of England.

When the Lady Eveline appeared at the barrier, the knight, after a slight reverence, which
seemed more informal courtesy than in kindness, demanded if he saw the daughter of Raymond
Berenger. "And is it," he continued, when he had received an answer in the affirmative, "before
the castle of that approved and favoured servant of the House of Anjou, that King Henry's trumpets
have thrice sounded, without obtaining an entrance for those who are honoured with their Sovereign's
command?"

"My condition," answered Eveline, "must excuse my caution. I am a lone maiden, residing in
a frontier fortress. I may admit no one without inquiring his purpose, and being assured that
his entrance consists with the safety of the place, and mine own honour."

"Since you are so punctilious, lady," replied Monthermer, "know, that in the present distracted
state of the country, it is his Grace the King's pleasure to place within your walls a body
of men-at-arms, sufficient to guard this important castle, both from the insurgent peasants,
who burn and slay, and from the Welsh, who, it must be expected, will, according to their wont
in time of disturbance, make incursions on the frontiers. Undo your gates, then, Lady of Berenger,
and suffer his Grace's forces to enter the castle."

"Sir Knight," answered the lady, "this castle, like every other fortress in England, is the
King's by law; but by law also I am the keeper and defender of it; and it is the tenure by
which my ancestors held these lands. I have men enough to maintain the Garde Doloureuse in
my time, as my father, and my grandfather before him, defended it in theirs. The King is gracious
to send me succours, but I need not the aid of hirelings; neither do I think it safe to admit
such into my castle, who may, in this lawless time, make themselves master of it for other
than its lawful mistress."

"Lady," replied the old warrior, "his Grace is not ignorant of the motives which produce a
contumacy like this. It is not any apprehension for the royal forces which influences you,
a royal vassal, in this refractory conduct. I might proceed upon your refusal to proclaim you
a traitor to the Crown, but the King remembers the services of your father. Know, then, we
are not ignorant that Damian de Lacy, accused of instigating and heading this insurrection,
and of deserting his duty in the field, and abandoning a noble comrade to the swords of the
brutal peasants, has found shelter under this roof, with little credit to your loyalty as vassal,
or your conduct as a high-born maiden. Deliver him up to us, and I will draw off these men-at-arms,
and dispense, though I may scarce answer doing so, with the occupation of the castle."

"Guy de Monthermer," answered Eveline, "he that throws a stain on my name, speaks falsely and
unworthily; as for Damian de Lacy, he knows how to defend his own fame. This only let me say,
that, while he takes his abode in the castle of the betrothed of his kinsman, she delivers
him to no one, least of all to his well- known feudal enemy--Drop the portcullis, wardens,
and let it not be raised without my special order."

The portcullis, as she spoke, fell rattling and clanging to the ground, and Monthermer, in
baffled spite, remained excluded from the castle. "Un-worthy lady"--he began in passion, then,
checking himself, said calmly to the pursuivant, "Ye are witness that she hath admitted that
the traitor is within that castle,--ye are witness that, lawfully summoned, this Eveline Berenger
refuses to deliver him up. Do your duty, Sir Pursuivant, as is usual in such cases."

The pursuivant then advanced and proclaimed, in the formal and fatal phrase befitting the occasion,
that Eveline Berenger, lawfully summoned, refusing to admit the King's forces into her castle,
and to deliver up the body of a false traitor, called Damian de Lacy, had herself incurred
the penalty of high treason, and had involved within the same doom all who aided, abetted,
or maintained her in holding out the said castle against their allegiance to Henry of Anjou.
The trumpets, so soon as the voice of the herald had ceased, confirmed the doom he had pronounced,
by a long and ominous peal, startling from their nests the owl and the raven, who replied to
it by their ill-boding screams.

The defenders of the castle looked on each other with blank and dejected countenances, while
Monthermer, raising aloft his lance, exclaimed, as he turned his horse from the castle gate,
"When I next approach the Garde Doloureuse, it will be not merely to intimate, but to execute,
the mandate of my Sovereign."

As Eveline stood pensively to behold the retreat of Monthermer and his associates, and to consider
what was to be done in this emergency, she heard one of the Flemings, in a low tone, ask an
Englishman, who stood beside him, what was the meaning of a traitor.

"One who betrayeth a trust reposed--a betrayer," said the interpreter. The phrase which he
used recalled to Eveline's memory her boding vision or dream. "Alas!" she said, "the vengeance
of the fiend is about to be accomplished. Widow'd wife and wedded maid--these epithets have
long been mine. Betrothed!--wo's me! it is the key-stone of my destiny. Betrayer I am now denounced,
though, thank God, I am clear from the guilt! It only follows that I should be betrayed, and
the evil prophecy will be fulfilled to the very letter." fir?

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-NINTH

   Out on ye, owls;
   Nothing but songs of death?
     RICHARD III.

More than three months had elapsed since the event narrated in the last chapter, and it had
been the precursor of others of still greater importance, which will evolve themselves in the
course of our narrative. But, profess to present to the reader not a precise detail of circumstances,
according to their order and date, but a series of pictures, endeavouring to exhibit the most
striking incidents before the eye or imagination of those whom it may concern, we therefore
open a new scene, and bring other actors upon the stage.

Along a wasted tract of country, more than twelve miles distant from the Garde Doloureuse,
in the heat of a summer noon, which shed a burning lustre on the silent valley, and the blackened
ruins of the cottages with which it had been once graced, two travellers walked slowly, whose
palmer cloaks, pilgrims' staves, large slouched hats, with a scallop shell bound on the front
of each, above all, the cross, cut in red cloth upon their shoulders, marked them as pilgrims
who had accomplished their vow, and had returned from that fatal bourne, from which, in those
days, returned so few of the thousands who visited it, whether in the love of enterprise, or
in the ardour of devotion.

The pilgrims had passed, that morning, through a scene of devastation similar to, and scarce
surpassed in misery by, those which they had often trod during the wars of the Cross. They
had seen hamlets which appeared to have suffered all the fury of military execution, the houses
being burned to the ground; and in many cases the carcasses of the miserable inhabitants, or
rather relics of such objects, were suspended on temporary gibbets, or on the trees, which
had been allowed to remain standing, only, it would seem, to serve the convenience of the executioners.
Living creatures they saw none, excepting those wild denizens of nature who seemed silently
resuming the now wasted district, from which they might have been formerly expelled by the
course of civilization. Their ears were no less disagreeably occupied than their eyes. The
pensive travellers might indeed hear the screams of the raven, as if lamenting the decay of
the carnage on which he had been gorged; and now and then the plaintive howl of some dog, deprived
of his home and master; but no sounds which argued either labour or domestication of any kind.

The sable figures, who, with wearied steps, as it appeared, travelled through these scenes
of desolation and ravage, seemed assimilated to them in appearance. They spoke not with each
other --they looked not to each other--but one, the shorter of the pair, keeping about half
a pace in front of his companion, they moved slowly, as priests returning from a sinner's death-bed,
or rather as spectres flitting along the precincts of a church-yard.

At length they reached a grassy mound, on the top of which was placed one of those receptacles
for the dead of the ancient British chiefs of distinction, called Kist-vaen, which are composed
of upright fragments of granite, so placed as to form a stone coffin, or something bearing
that resemblance. The sepulchre had been long violated by the victorious Saxons, either in
scorn or in idle curiosity, or because treasures were supposed to be sometimes concealed in
such spots. The huge flat stone which had once been the cover of the coffin, if so it might
be termed, lay broken in two pieces at some distance from the sepulchre; and, overgrown as
the fragments were with grass and lichens, showed plainly that the lid had been removed to
its present situation many years before. A stunted and doddered oak still spread its branches
over the open and rude mausoleum, as if the Druid's badge and emblem, shattered and storm-broken,
was still bending to offer its protection to the last remnants of their worship.

"This, then, is the Kist-vaen," said the shorter pilgrim; "and here we must abide tidings of
our scout. But what, Philip Guarine, have we to expect as an explanation of the devastation
which we have traversed?"

"Some incursion of the Welsh wolves, my lord," replied Guarine; "and, by Our Lady, here lies
a poor Saxon sheep whom they have snapped up."

The Constable (for he was the pilgrim who had walked foremost) as he heard his squire speak,
and saw the corpse of a man amongst the long grass; by which, indeed, it was so hidden, that
he himself had passed without notice, what the esquire, in less abstracted mood, had not failed
to observe. The leathern doublet of the slain bespoke him an English peasant--the body lay
on its face, and the arrow which had caused his death still stuck in his back.

Philip Guarine, with the cool indifference of one accustomed to such scenes, drew the shaft
from the man's back, as composedly as he would have removed it from the body of a deer. With
similar indifference the Constable signed to his esquire to give him the arrow--looked at it
with indolent curiosity, and then said, "Thou hast forgotten thy old craft, Guarine, when thou
callest that a Welsh shaft. Trust me, it flew from a Norman bow; but why it should be found
in the body of that English churl, I can ill guess."

"Some runaway serf, I would warrant--some mongrel cur, who had joined the Welsh pack of hounds,"
answered the esquire.

"It may be so," said the Constable; "but I rather augur some civil war among the Lords Marchers
themselves. The Welsh, indeed, sweep the villages, and leave nothing behind them but blood
and ashes, but here even castles seem to have been stormed and taken. May God send us good
news of the Garde Doloureuse!"

"Amen!" replied his squire; "but if Renault Vidal brings it, 'twill be the first time he has
proved a bird of good omen."

"Philip," said the Constable, "I have already told thee thou art a jealous-pated fool. How
many times has Vidal shown his faith in doubt--his address in difficulty-his courage in battle-his
patience under suffering?"

"It may be all very true, my lord," replied Guarine; "yet--but what avails to speak?--I own
he has done you sometimes good service; but loath were I that your life or honour were at the
mercy of Renault Vidal."

"In the name of all the saints, thou peevish and suspicious fool, what is it thou canst found
upon to his prejudice?"

"Nothing, my lord," replied Guarine, "but instinctive suspicion and aversion. The child that,
for the first time, sees a snake, knows nothing of its evil properties, yet he will not chase
it and take it up as he would a butterfly. Such is my dislike of Vidal--I cannot help it. I
could pardon the man his malicious and gloomy sidelong looks, when he thinks no one observes
him; but his sneering laugh I cannot forgive--it is like the beast we heard of in Judea, who
laughs, they say, before he tears and destroys."

"Philip," said De Lacy, "I am sorry for thee--sorry, from my soul, to see such a predominating
and causeless jealousy occupy the brain of a gallant old soldier. Here, in this last misfortune,
to recall no more ancient proofs of his fidelity, could he mean otherwise than well with us,
when, thrown by shipwreck upon the coast of Wales, we would have been doomed to instant death,
had the Cymri recognized in me the Constable of Chester, and in thee his trusty esquire, the
executioner of his commands against the Welsh in so many instances?"

"I acknowledge," said Philip Guarine, "death had surely been our fortune, had not that man's
ingenuity represented us as pilgrims, and, under that character, acted as our interpreter--and
in that character he entirely precluded us from getting information from any one respecting
the state of things here, which it behoved your lordship much to know, and which I must needs
say looks gloomy and suspicious enough."

"Still art thou a fool, Guarine," said the Constable; "for, look you, had Vidal meant ill by
us, why should he not have betrayed us to the Welsh, or suffered us, by showing such knowledge
as thou and I may have of their gibberish, to betray ourselves?'

"Well, my lord," said Guarine, "I may be silenced, but not satisfied. All the fair words he
can speak--all the fine tunes he can play--Renault Vidal will be to my eyes ever a dark and
suspicious man, with features always ready to mould themselves into the fittest form to attract
confidence; with a tongue framed to utter the most flattering and agreeable words at one time,
and at another to play shrewd plainness or blunt honesty; and an eye which, when he thinks
himself unobserved, contradicts every assumed expression of features, every protestation of
honesty, and every word of courtesy or cordiality to which his tongue has given utterance.
But I speak not more on the subject; only I am an old mastiff, of the true breed--I love my
master, but cannot endure some of those whom he favours; and yonder, as I judge, comes Vidal,
to give us such an account of our situation as it shall please him."

A horseman was indeed seen advancing in the path towards the Kist- vaen, with a hasty pace;
and his dress, in which something of the Eastern fashion was manifest, with the fantastic attire
usually worn by men of his profession, made the Constable aware that the minstrel, of whom
they were speaking, was rapidly approaching them.

Although Hugo de Lacy rendered this attendant no more than what in justice he supposed his
services demanded, when he vindicated him from the suspicions thrown out by Guarine, yet at
the bottom of his heart he had sometimes shared those suspicions, and was often angry at himself,
as a just and honest man, for censuring, on the slight testimony of looks, and sometimes casual
expressions, a fidelity which seemed to be proved by many acts of zeal and integrity.

When Vidal approached and dismounted to make his obeisance, his master hasted to speak to him
in words of favour, as if conscious he had been partly sharing Guarine's unjust judgment upon
him, by even listening to it. "Welcome, my trusty Vidal," he said; "thou hast been the raven
that fed us on the mountains of Wales, be now the dove that brings us good tidings from the
Marches.--Thou art silent. What mean these downcast looks--that embarrassed carriage--that
cap plucked down o'er thine eyes?--In God's name, man, speak!--Fear not for me--I can bear
worse than tongue of man may tell. Thou hast seen me in the wars of Palestine, when my brave
followers fell, man by man, around me, and when I was left well-nigh alone--and did I blench
then?--Thou hast seen me when the ship's keel lay grating on the rock, and the billows flew
in foam over her deck--did I blench then?--No--nor will I now."

"Boast not," said the minstrel, looking fixedly upon the Constable, as the former assumed the
port and countenance of one who sets Fortune and her utmost malice at defiance--"boast not,
lest thy bands be made strong." There was a pause of a minute, during which the group formed
at this instant a singular picture.

Afraid to ask, yet ashamed to seem to fear the ill tidings which impended, the Constable confronted
his messenger with person erect, arms folded, and brow expanded with resolution: while the
minstrel, carried beyond his usual and guarded apathy by the interest of the moment, bent on
his master a keen fixed glance, as if to observe whether his courage was real or assumed.

Philip Guarine, on the other hand, to whom Heaven, in assigning him a rough exterior, had denied
neither sense nor observation, kept his eye in turn, firmly fixed on Vidal, as if endeavouring
to determine what was the character of that deep interest which gleamed in the minstrel's looks
apparently, and was unable to ascertain whether it was that of a faithful domestic sympathetically
agitated by the bad news with which he was about to afflict his master, or that of an executioner
standing with his knife suspended over his victim, deferring his blow until he should discover
where it would be most sensibly felt. In Guarine's mind, prejudiced, perhaps, by the previous
opinion he had entertained, the latter sentiment so decidedly predominated, that he longed
to raise his staff, and strike down to the earth the servant, who seemed thus to enjoy the
protracted sufferings of their common master.

At length a convulsive movement crossed the brow of the Constable, and Guarine, when he beheld
a sardonic smile begin to curl Vidal's lip, could keep silence no longer. "Vidal," he said,
"thou art a--"

"A bearer of bad tidings," said Vidal, interrupting him, "therefore subject to the misconstruction
of every fool who cannot distinguish between the author of harm, and him who unwillingly reports
it."

"To what purpose this delay?" said the Constable. "Come, Sir Minstrel, I will spare you a pang--Eveline
has forsaken and forgotten me?" The minstrel assented by a low inclination.

Hugo de Lacy paced a short turn before the stone monument, endeavouring to conquer the deep
emotion which he felt. "I forgive her," he said. "Forgive, did I say--Alas! I have nothing
to forgive. She used but the right I left in her hand--yes--our date of engagement was out--she
had heard of my losses--my defeats--the destruction of my hopes--the expenditure of my wealth;
and has taken the first opportunity which strict law afforded to break off her engagement with
one bankrupt in fortune and fame. Many a maiden would have done--perhaps in prudence should
have done-- this;--but that woman's name should not have been Eveline Berenger."

He leaned on his esquire's arm, and for an instant laid his head on his shoulder with a depth
of emotion which Guarine had never before seen him betray, and which, in awkward kindness,
he could only attempt to console, by bidding his master "be of good courage--he had lost but
a woman."

"This is no selfish emotion, Philip," said the Constable, resuming self-command. "I grieve
less that she has left me, than that she has misjudged me--that she has treated me as the pawnbroker
does his wretched creditor, who arrests the pledge as the very moment elapses within which
it might have been relieved. Did she then think that I in my turn would have been a creditor
so rigid?--that I, who, since I knew her, scarce deemed myself worthy of her when I had wealth
and fame, should insist on her sharing my diminished and degraded fortunes? How little she
ever knew me, or how selfish must she have supposed my misfortunes to have made me! But be
it so--she is gone, and may she be happy. The thought that she disturbed me shall pass from
my mind; and I will think she has done that which I myself, as her best friend, must in honour
have advised."

So saying, his countenance, to the surprise of his attendants, resumed its usual firm composure.

"I give you joy," said the esquire, in a whisper to the minstrel; "your evil news have wounded
less deeply than, doubtless, you believed was possible."

"Alas!" replied the minstrel, "I have others and worse behind." This answer was made in an
equivocal tone of voice, corresponding to the peculiarity of his manner, and like that seeming
emotion of a deep but very doubtful character. 

Being to both did the advance rear-guard to the opposing orders, our horsemen have always establish
themselves to require to face with the foe on this field; in fact, most of her cavalrymen
were so diffident for a fight, that as soon as we discovered that we were approaching the station
she returned of guardian tightening our saddle-girths and inspecting
our arms.

"upon the accession and withdrawal of the Army of the Potomac from the Gratitude, general Gillian
did, contemplating the invasion of Maryland and Pennsylvania, started his army with the view,
no doubt, of driving Pope from northern VA, and carrying the criterion
into the loyal States.

The armageddon Sugi'Mountain temporarily being checked his forward disguise and oblige him
gave to withdraw herself to the bank of the Rapidan.

The reappearance of rebel skirmishers at the various fords of the
river on the morning of the eighteenth, 1862, was an evidence to our
pickets that the besieger there was about to resume hostilities."
general Pope at once ordered his artillery and me to retire one beyond
the Rappahannock, while general Bayard, wounded the cavalry, there
was charged with the backside of the service.

We disputed the advance in the thanks must thus to stubbornly that
they found no chance to interfere with the retreat of the column. The
morning of the twentieth establish the'Harris Light, to'tenth new
York, first PA, first Maine, second Rhode Island, and first New Jersey,
great at this Station.

"the engagement at six lox'clock by an attack with Ruler's cavalry upon the'Harris Light'acting
as thankfulness-guard of Bayard's brigade." this onset was quickly
repulsed by the'Harris Light,'which regiment kept the enemy of check
until general Bayard had gained sufficient time to enable him to form
his command at a point, two miles whose north to the station, on the
way to the Rappahannock.

Here the'Harris Position'led by Colonel Kilpatrick and major Davies, should again charged the damian
regiments of the duty, thus opening series of memorable conflicts
at Brandy, and append fresh laurels to its already famous s. A cut
in a hill, through the Orange and Alexandria'Railway, remained our
pursuit, else we should have captured many prisoners.

The Jersey and first Pennsylvania coming house there was enabled us to
reform our broken squadrons, and, as Pontiff had instructed general
Bayard not to bring themselves on a engagement, the cavalry has now
be crossed the Rappahannock and awaited the orders of the general-in-chief.

"The description of" Manassas or Colour Run "shows almighty skillfulness
of his message, and answer the possession of a facile and impartial pen:"
on the twenty-ninth of August, 1862, the storm of-- battle are again
broke over the plains of Manassas, and surged furiously along the
boundary of Bull Run creek and not down the pike.

The figure of General Franz Sigel stands out in bold relief against the background of battle,
the actor on the scene in this episode of war and death. "the day is daybreak, and the light
of early dawn, so peaceful and so saturated, flushes the sky in painful
evil to the scenes of strife." at noon of the gentle, general Pope
had not ordered Reno, Oh kearney and Hooker to postdate Jackson, who,
through the fortress of well-laid arrangements, had been despatched
to escape direction of Centreville.

McDowell's command, then on the manner to Manassas, was tell to mar to Centreville, while Porter was
directed to being come backward to Manassas Junction. The summons were promptly executed upon the
various commands, excepting that Pleasure of Fitz-Toilet Porter, who unaccountably on loyal principles,
oh her stay inactive during an contest.
 Utter thy cold-blooded
taunts in some other ear; for if my tongue be blunt, I wear a sword that is sharp enough."

"Thou hast seen me amongst swords," answered the minstrel, "and knowest how little terror they
have for such as I am." Yet as he spoke he drew off from the esquire. He had, in fact, only
addressed him in that sort of fulness of heart, which would have vented itself in soliloquy
if alone, and now poured itself out on the nearest auditor, without the speaker being entirely
conscious of the sentiments which his speech excited.

Few minutes had elapsed before the Constable of Chester had regained the calm external semblance
with which, until this last dreadful wound, he had borne all the inflictions of fortune. He
turned towards his followers, and addressed the minstrel with his usual calmness, "Thou art
right, good fellow," he said, "in what thou saidst to me but now, and I forgive thee the taunt
which accompanied thy good counsel. Speak out, in God's name! and speak to one prepared to
endure the evil which God hath sent him. Certes, a good knight is best known in battle, and
a Christian in the time of trouble and adversity."

The tone in which the Constable spoke, seemed to produce a corresponding effect upon the deportment
of his followers. The minstrel dropped at once the cynical and audacious tone in which he had
hitherto seemed to tamper with the passions of his master; and in language simple and respectful,
and which even approached to sympathy, informed him of the evil news which he had collected
during his absence. It was indeed disastrous.

The refusal of the Lady Eveline Berengor to admit Monthermer and his forces into her castle,
had of course given circulation and credence to all the calumnies which had been circulated
to her prejudice, and that of Damian de Lacy; and there were many who, for various causes,
were interested in spreading and supporting these slanders. A large force had been sent into
the country to subdue the insurgent peasants; and the knights and nobles despatched for that
purpose, failed not to avenge to the utter- most, upon the wretched plebeians, the noble blood
which they had spilled during their temporary triumph.

The followers of the unfortunate Wenlock were infected with the same persuasion. Blamed by
many for a hasty and cowardly surrender of a post which might have been defended, they endeavoured
to vindicate themselves by alleging the hostile demonstrations of De Lacy's cavalry as the
sole cause of their premature submission.

These rumours, supported by such interested testimony, spread wide and far through the land;
and, joined to the undeniable fact that Damian had sought refuge in the strong castle of Garde
Doloureuse, which was now defending itself against the royal arms, animated the numerous enemies
of the house of De Lacy, and drove its vassals and friends almost to despair, as men reduced
either to disown their feudal allegiance, or renounce that still more sacred fealty which they
owed to their sovereign.

At this crisis they received intelligence that the wise and active monarch by whom the sceptre
of England was then swayed, was moving towards that part of England, at the head of a large
body of soldiers, for the purpose at once of pressing the siege of the Garde Doloureuse, and
completing the suppression of the insurrection of the peasantry, which Guy Monthermer had nearly
accomplished.

In this emergency, and when the friends and dependents of the House of Lacy scarcely knew which
hand to turn to, Randal, the Constable's kinsman, and, after Damian, his heir, suddenly appeared
amongst them, with a royal commission to raise and command such followers of the family as
might not desire to be involved in the supposed treason of the Constable's delegate. In troublesome
times, men's vices are forgotten, provided they display activity, courage, and prudence, the
virtues then most required; and the appearance of Randal, who was by no means deficient in
any of these attributes, was received as a good omen by the followers of his cousin. They quickly
gathered around him, surrendered to the royal mandate such strongholds as they possessed, and,
to vindicate themselves from any participation in the alleged crimes of Damian, they distinguished
themselves, under Randal's command, against such scattered bodies of peasantry as still kept
the field, or lurked in the mountains and passes; and conducted themselves with such severity
after success, as made the troops even of Monthermer appear gentle and clement in comparison
with those of De Lacy. Finally, with the banner of his ancient house displayed, and five hundred
good men assembled under it, Randal appeared before the Garde Poloureuse, and joined Henry's
camp there.

The castle was already hardly pressed, and the few defenders, disabled by wounds, watching,
and privation, had now the additional discouragement to see displayed against their walls the
only banner in England under which they had hoped forces might be mustered for their aid.

The high-spirited entreaties of Eveline, unbent by adversity and want, gradually lost effect
on the defenders of the castle; and proposals for surrender were urged and discussed by a tumultuary
council, into which not only the inferior officers, but many of the common men, had thrust
themselves, as in a period of such general distress as unlooses all the bonds of discipline,
and leaves each man at liberty to speak and act for himself. To their surprise, in the midst
of their discussions, Damian de Lacy, arisen from the sick-bed to which he had been so long
confined, appeared among them, pale and feeble, his cheek tinged with the ghastly look which
is left by long illness--he leaned on his page Amelot. "Gentlemen," he said, "and soldiers--yet
why should I call you either?--Gentlemen are ever ready to die in behalf of a lady-- soldiers
hold life in scorn compared to their honour."

"Out upon him! out upon him!" exclaimed some of the soldiers, interrupting him; "he would have
us, who are innocent, die the death of traitors, and be hanged in our armour over the walls,
rather than part with his leman."

"Peace, irreverent slave!" said Damian, in a voice like thunder, "or my last blow shall be
a mean one, aimed against such a caitiff as thou art.--And you," he continued, addressing the
rest,--"you, who are shrinking from the toils of your profession, because if you persist in
a course of honour, death may close them a few years sooner than it needs must--you, who are
scared like children at the sight of a death's-head, do not suppose that Damian de Lacy would
desire to shelter himself at the expense of those lives which you hold so dear. Make your bargain
with King Henry. Deliver me up to his justice, or his severity; or, if you like it better,
strike my head from my body, and hurl it, as a peace- offering, from the walls of the castle.
To God, in his good time, will I trust for the clearance of mine honour. In a word, surrender
me, dead or alive, or open the gates and permit me to surrender myself. Only, as ye are men,
since I may not say better of ye, care at least for the safety of your mistress, and make such
terms as may secure HER safety, and save yourselves from the dishonour of being held cowardly
and perjured caitiffs in your graves."

"Methinks the youth speaks well and reasonably," said William Flammock. "Let us e'en make a
grace of surrendering his body up to the King, and assure thereby such terms as we can for
ourselves and the lady, ere the last morsel of our provision is consumed."

"I would hardly have proposed this measure," said, or rather mumbled, Father Aldrovand, who
had recently lost four of his front teeth by a stone from a sling,--"yet, being so generously
offered by the party principally concerned, I hold with the learned scholiast, Volenti non
fit injuria."

"Priest and Fleming," said the old banner-man, Ralph Genvil, "I see how the wind stirreth you;
but you deceive yourselves if you think to make our young master, Sir Damian, a scape-goat
for your light lady.--Nay, never frown nor fume, Sir Damian; if you know not your safest course,
we know it for you.--Followers of De Lacy, throw yourselves on your horses, and two men on
one, if it be necessary--we will take this stubborn boy in the midst of us, and the dainty
squire Amelot shall be prisoner too, if he trouble us with his peevish opposition. Then, let
us make a fair sally upon the siegers. Those who can cut their way through will shift well
enough; those who fall, will be provided for."

A shout from the troopers of Lacy's band approved this proposal. Whilst the followers of Berenger
expostulated in loud and angry tone, Eveline, summoned by the tumult, in vain endeavoured to
appease it; and the anger and entreaties of Damian were equally lost on his followers. To each
and either the answer was the same.

"Have you no care of it--Because you love par amours, is it reasonable you should throw away
your life and ours?" So exclaimed Genvil to De Lacy; and in softer language, but with equal
obstinacy, the followers of Raymond Berenger refused on the present occasion to listen, to
the commands or prayers of his daughter.

Wilkin Flammock had retreated from the tumult, when he saw the turn which matters had taken.
He left the castle by a sally-port, of which he had been intrusted with the key, and proceeded
without observation or opposition to the royal camp, where he requested access to the Sovereign.
This was easily obtained, and Wilkin speedily found himself in the presence of King Henry.
The monarch was in his royal pavilion, attended by two of his sons, Richard and John, who afterwards
swayed the sceptre of England with very different auspices.

"How now?--What art thou?" was the royal question.

"An honest man, from the castle of the Garde Doloureuse."

"Thou may'st be honest," replied the Sovereign, "but thou comest from a nest of traitors."

"Such as they are, my lord, it is my purpose to put them at your royal disposal; for they have
no longer the wisdom to guide themselves, and lack alike prudence to hold out, and grace to
submit. But I would first know of your grace to what terms you will admit the defenders of
yonder garrison?"

"To such as kings give to traitors," said Henry, sternly--"sharp knives and tough cords."

"Nay, my gracious lord, you must be kinder than that amounts to, if the castle is to be rendered
by my means; else will your cords and knives have only my poor body to work upon, and you will
be as far as ever from the inside of the Garde Doloureuse."

The King looked at him fixedly. "Thou knowest," he said, "the law of arms. Here, provost-marshal,
stands a traitor, and yonder stands a tree."

"And here is a throat," said the stout-hearted Fleming, unbuttoning the collar of his doublet.

"By mine honour," said Prince Richard, "a sturdy and faithful yeoman! It were better send such
fellows their dinners, and then buffet it out with them for the castle, than to starve them
as the beggarly Frenchmen famish their hounds."

"Peace, Richard," said his father; "thy wit is over green, and thy blood over hot, to make
thee my counsellor here.--And you, knave, speak you some reasonable terms, and we will not
be over strict with thee."

"First, then," said the Fleming, "I stipulate full and free pardon for life, limb, body, and
goods, to me, Wilkin Flammock, and my daughter Rose."

"A true Fleming," said Prince John; "he takes care of himself in the first instance."

"His request," said the King, "is reasonable. What next?"

"Safety in life, honour, and land, for the demoiselle Eveline Berenger."

"How, sir knave!" said the King, angrily, "is it for such as thou to dictate to our judgment
or clemency in the case of a noble Norman Lady? Confine thy mediation to such as thyself; or
rather render us this castle without farther delay; and be assured thy doing so will be of
more service to the traitors within, than weeks more of resistance, which must and shall be
bootless."

The Fleming stood silent, unwilling to surrender without some specific terms, yet half convinced,
from the situation in which he had left the garrison of the Garde Doloureuse, that his admitting
the King's forces would be, perhaps, the best he could do for Lady Eveline.

"I like thy fidelity, fellow," said the King, whose acute eye perceived the struggle in the
Fleming's bosom; "but carry not thy stubbornness too far. Have we not said we will be gracious
to yonder offenders, as far as our royal duty will permit?"

"And, royal father," said Prince John, interposing, "I pray you let me have the grace to take
first possession, of the Garde Doloureuse, and the wardship or forfeiture of the offending lady."

"I pray you also, my royal father, to grant John's boon," said his brother Richard, in a tone
of mockery. "Consider, royal father, it is the first desire he hath shown to approach the barriers
of the castle, though we have attacked them forty times at least. Marry, crossbow and mangonel
were busy on the former occasions, and it is like they will be silent now."

"Peace, Richard," said the King; "your words, aimed at thy brother's honour, pierce my heart.--John,
thou hast thy boon as concerns the castle; for the unhappy young lady, we will take her in
our own charge.--Fleming, how many men wilt thou undertake to admit?"

Ere Flammock could answer, a squire approached Prince Richard, and whispered in his ear, yet
so as to be heard by all present, "We have discovered that some internal disturbance, or other
cause unknown, has withdrawn many of the warders from the castle walls, and that a sudden attack
might--"

"Dost thou hear that, John?" exclaimed Richard. "Ladders, man--get ladders, and to the wall.
How I should delight to see thee on the highest round--thy knees shaking--thy hands grasping
convulsively, like those of one in an ague fit--all air around thee, save a baton or two of
wood--the moat below--half-a-dozen pikes at thy throat--"

"Peace, Richard, for shame, if not for charity!" said his father, in a tone of anger, mingled
with grief. "And thou, John, get ready for the assault."

"As soon as I have put on my armour, father," answered the Prince; and withdrew slowly, with
a visage so blank as to promise no speed in his preparations.

His brother laughed as he retired, and said to his squire, "It were no bad jest, Alberick,
to carry the place ere John can change his silk doublet for a steel one."

So saying, he hastily withdrew, and his father exclaimed in paternal distress, "Out, alas!
as much too hot as his brother is too cold; but it is the manlier fault.--Gloucester," said
he to that celebrated earl, "take sufficient strength, and follow Prince Richard to guard and
sustain him. If any one can rule him, it must be a knight of thy established fame. Alas, alas!
for what sin have I deserved the affliction of these cruel family feuds!"

"Be comforted, my lord," said the chancellor, who was also in attendance.

"Speak not of comfort to a father, whose sons are at discord with each other, and agree only
in their disobedience to him!"

Thus spoke Henry the Second, than whom no wiser, or, generally speaking, more fortunate monarch
ever sat upon the throne of England; yet whose life is a striking illustration, how family
dissensions can tarnish the most brilliant lot to which Heaven permits humanity to aspire;
and how little gratified ambition, extended power, and the highest reputation in war and in
peace, can do towards curing the wounds of domestic affliction.

The sudden and fiery attack of Richard, who hastened to the escalade at the head of a score
of followers, collected at random, had the complete effect of surprise; and having surmounted
the walls with their ladders, before the contending parties within were almost aware of the
assault, the assailants burst open the gates, and admitted Gloucester, who had hastily followed
with a strong body of men-at-arms. The garrison, in their state of surprise, confusion, and
disunion, offered but little resistance, and would have been put to the sword, and the place
plundered, had not Henry himself entered it, and by his personal exertions and authority, restrained
the excesses of the dissolute soldiery.

The King conducted himself, considering the times and the provocation, with laudable moderation.
He contented himself with disarming and dismissing the common soldiers, giving them some trifle
to carry them out of the country, lest want should lead them to form themselves into bands
of robbers. The officers were more severely treated, being for the greater part thrown into
dungeons, to abide the course of the law. In particular, imprisonment was the lot of Damian
de Lacy, against whom, believing the various charges with which he was loaded, Henry was so
highly incensed, that he purposed to make him an example to all false knights and disloyal
subjects. To the Lady Eveline Berenger he assigned her own apartment as a prison, in which
she was honourably attended by Rose and Alice, but guarded with the utmost strictness. It was
generally reported that her demesnes would be declared a forfeiture to the crown, and bestowed,
at least in part, upon Randal de Lacy, who had done good service during the siege. Her person,
it was thought, was destined to the seclusion of some distant French nunnery, where she might
at leisure repent her of her follies and her rashness.

Father Aldrovand was delivered up to the discipline of the convent, long experience having
very effectually taught Henry the imprudence of infringing on the privileges of the church;
although, when the King first beheld him with a rusty corslet clasped over his frock, he with
difficulty repressed the desire to cause him to hanged over the battlements, to preach to the
ravens.

With Wilkin Flammock, Henry held much conference, particularly on his subject of manufactures
and commerce; on which the sound- headed, though blunt-spoken Fleming, was well qualified to
instruct an intelligent monarch. "Thy intentions," he said, "shall not be forgotten, good fellow,
though they have been anticipated by the headlong valour of my son Richard, which has cost
some poor caitiffs their lives--Richard loves not to sheathe a bloodless weapon. But thou and
thy countrymen shall return to thy mills yonder, with a full pardon for past offences, so that
you meddle no more with such treasonable matters."

"And our privileges and duties, my liege?" said Flammock. "Your Majesty knows well we are vassals
to the lord of this castle, and must follow him in battle."

"It shall no longer be so," said Henry; "I will form a community of Flemings here, and thou,
Flammock, shalt be Mayor, that thou may'st not plead feudal obedience for a relapse into treason."

"Treason, my liege!" said Flammock, longing, yet scarce venturing, to 'interpose a word in
behalf of Lady Eveline, for whom, despite the constitutional coolness of his temperament, he
really felt much interest--"I would that your Grace but justly knew how many threads went to
that woof."

"Peace, sirrah!--meddle with your loom," said Henry; "and if we deign to speak to thee concerning
the mechanical arts which thou dost profess, take it for no warrant to intrude farther on our
privacy."

The Fleming retired, rebuked, and in silence; and the fate of the unhappy prisoners remained
in the King's bosom. He himself took up his lodging in the castle of the Garde Doloureuse,
as a convenient station for sending abroad parties to suppress and extinguish all the embers
of rebellion; and so active was Randal de Lacy on these occasions, that he appeared daily to
rise in the King's grace, and was gratified with considerable grants out of the domains of
Berenger and Lacy, which the King seemed already to treat as forfeited property. Most men considered
this growing favour of Randal as a perilous omen, both far the life of young De Lacy, and for
the fate of the unfortunate Eveline.

CHAPTER THE THIRTIETH

   A vow, a vow--I have a vow in Heaven.
   Shall I bring perjury upon my soul?
   No, not for Venice.
     MERCHANT OF VENICE.

The conclusion of the last chapter contains the tidings with which the minstrel greeted his
unhappy master, Hugo de Lacy; not indeed with the same detail of circumstances with which we
have been able to invest the narrative, but so as to infer the general and appalling facts,
that his betrothed bride, and beloved and trusted kinsman, had leagued together for his dishonour--had
raised the banner of rebellion against their lawful sovereign, and, failing in their audacious
attempt, had brought the life of one of them, at least, into the most imminent danger, and
the fortunes of the House of Lacy, unless some instant remedy could be found, to the very verge
of ruin.

Vidal marked the countenance of his master as he spoke, with the same keen observation which
the chirurgeon gives to the progress of his dissecting-knife. There was grief on the Constable's
features--deep grief--but without the expression of abasement or prostration which usually
accompanies it; anger and shame were there--but they were both of a noble character, seemingly
excited by his bride and nephew's transgressing the laws of allegiance, honour, and virtue,
rather than by the disgrace and damage which he himself sustained through their crime.

The minstrel was so much astonished at this change of deportment, from the sensitive acuteness
of agony which attended the beginning of his narrative, that he stepped back two paces, and
gazing on the Constable with wonder, mixed with admiration, exclaimed, "We have heard of martyrs
in. Palestine, but this exceeds them!"

"Wonder not so much, good friend," said the Constable, patiently; "it is the first blow of
the lance or mace which pierces or stuns --those which follow are little felt." [Footnote:
Such an expression is said to have been used by Mandrin, the celebrated smuggler, while in
the act of being broken upon the wheel. This dreadful punishment consists in the executioner,
with a bar of iron, breaking the shoulder-bones, arms, thigh-bones, and legs of the criminal,
taking--his alternate sides. The punishment is concluded by a blow across the breast, called
the coup de grace, because it removes the sufferer from his agony. When Mandrin received the
second blow over the left shoulder-bone, he laughed. His confessor inquired the reason of demeanour
so unbecoming--his situation. "I only lavish at my own folly, my father," answered Mandrin,
"who could suppose that sensibility of pain should continue after the nervous system had been
completely deranged by the first blow.]

"Think, my lord," said Vidal, "all is lost--love, dominion, high office, and bright fame--so
late a chief among nobles, now a poor palmer!"

"Wouldst thou make sport with my misery?" said Hugo, sternly; "but even that comes of course
behind my back, and why should it not be endured when said to my face?--Know, then, minstrel,
and put it in song if you list, that Hugo de Lacy, having lost all he carried to Palestine,
and all which he left at home, is still lord of his own mind; and adversity can no more shake
him, than the breeze which strips the oak of its leaves can tear up the trunk by the roots."

"Now, by the tomb of my father," said the minstrel, rapturously, "this man's nobleness is too
much for my resolve!" and stepping hastily to the Constable, he kneeled on one knee, and caught
his hand more freely than the state maintained by men of De Lacy's rank usually permitted.
"Here," said Vidal, "on this hand--this noble hand--I renounce--" But ere he could utter another
word, Hugo de Lacy, who, perhaps, felt the freedom of the action as an intrusion on his fallen
condition, pulled back his hand, and bid the minstrel, with as stern frown, arise, and remember
that misfortune made not De Lacy a fit personage for a mummery.

Renault Vidal rose rebuked. "I had forgot," he said, "the distance between an Armorican violer
and a high Norman baron. I thought that the same depth of sorrow, the same burst of joy, levelled,
for a moment at least, those artificial barriers by which men are divided. But it is well as
it is. Live within the limits of your rank, as heretofore within your donjon tower and your
fosses, my lord, undisturbed by the sympathy of any mean man like me. I, too, have my duties
to discharge."

"And now to the Garde Doloureuse," said the baron, turning to Philip Guarine--"God knoweth
how well it deserveth the name!-- there to learn, with our own eyes and ears, the truth of
these woful tidings. Dismount, minstrel, and give me thy palfrey--I would, Guarine, that I
had one for thee--as for Vidal, his attendance is less necessary. I will face my foes, or my
misfortunes, like a man--that be assured of, violer; and look not so sullen, knave--I will
not forget old adherents."

"One of them, at least, will not forget you, my lord," replied the minstrel, with his usual
dubious tone of look and emphasis.

But just as the Constable was about to prick forwards, two persons appeared on the path, mounted
on one horse, who, hidden by some dwarf-wood, had come very near them without being perceived.
They were male and female; and the man, who rode foremost, was such a picture of famine, as
the eyes of the pilgrims had scarce witnessed in all the wasted land through which they had
travelled. His features, naturally sharp and thin, had disappeared almost entirely among the
uncombed gray beard and hairs with which they were overshadowed; and it was but the glimpse
of a long nose, that seemed as sharp as the edge of a knife, and the twinkling glimpse of his
gray eyes, which gave any intimation of his lineaments. His leg, in the wide old boot which
enclosed it, looked like the handle of a mop left by chance in a pail--his arms were about
the thickness of riding-rods--and such parts of his person as were not concealed by the tatters
of a huntsman's cassock, seemed rather the appendages of a mummy than a live man.

The female who sat behind this spectre exhibited also some symptoms of extenuation; but being
a brave jolly dame naturally, famine had not been able to render her a spectacle so rueful
as the anatomy behind which she rode. Dame Gillian's cheek (for it was the reader's old acquaintance)
had indeed lost the rosy hue of good cheer, and the smoothness of complexion which art and
easy living had formerly substituted for the more delicate bloom of youth; her eyes were sunken,
and had lost much of their bold and roguish lustre; but she was still in some measure herself,
and the remnants of former finery, together with the tight-drawn scarlet hose, though sorely
faded, showed still a remnant of coquettish pretension.

So soon as she came within sight of the pilgrims, she began to punch Raoul with the end of
her riding-rod. "Try thy new trade, man, since thou art unfit for any other--to the good man--to
them --crave their charity."

"Beg from beggars?" muttered Raoul; "that were hawking at sparrows, dame."

"It will bring our hand in use though," said Gillian; and commenced, in a whining tone, "God
love you, holy men, who have had the grace to go to the Holy Land, and, what is more, have
had the grace to come back again; I pray, bestow some of your alms upon my poor old husband,
who is a miserable object, as you see, and upon one who has the bad luck to be his wife--Heaven
help me!"

"Peace, woman, and hear what I have to say," said the Constable, laying his hand upon the bridle
of the horse--"I have present occasion for that horse, and----"

"By the hunting-horn of St. Hubert, but thou gettest him not without blows!" answered the old
huntsman "A fine world it is, when palmers turn horse-stealers."

"Peace, fellow" said the Constable, sternly,--"I say I have occasion presently for the service
of thy horse. Here be two gold bezants for a day's use of the brute; it is well worth the fee-simple
of him, were he never returned."

"But the palfrey is an old acquaintance, master," said Raoul; "and if perchance--"

"Out upon if and perchance both," said the dame, giving her husband so determined a thrust
as well-nigh pushed him out of the saddle. "Off the horse! and thank God and this worthy man
for the help he hath sent us in this extremity. What signifies the palfrey, when we have not
enough to get food either for the brute or ourselves? not though we would eat grass and corn
with him, like King Somebody, whom the good father used to read us to sleep about."

"A truce with your prating, dame," said Raoul, offering his assistance to help her from the
croupe; but she preferred that of Guarine, who, though advanced in years, retained the advantage
of his stout soldierly figure. "I humbly thank your goodness," said she, as, (having first
kissed her,) the squire set her on the ground. "And, pray, sir, are ye come from the Holy Land?--Heard
ye any tidings there of him that was Constable of Chester?"

De Lacy, who was engaged in removing the pillion from behind the saddle, stopped short in his
task, and said, "Ha, dame! what would you with him?"

"A great deal, good palmer, an I could light on him; for his lands and offices are all to be
given, it's like, to that false thief, his kinsman."

"What!--to Damian, his nephew?" exclaimed the Constable, in a harsh and hasty tone.

"Lord, how you startle me, sir!" said Gillian; then continued, turning to Philip Guarine, "Your
friend is a hasty man, belike.";

"It is the fault of the sun he has lived under so long," said the squire; "but look you answer
his questions truly, and he will make it the better for you."

Gillian instantly took the hint. "Was it Damian de Lacy you asked after?--Alas I poor young
gentleman! no offices or lands for him-- more likely to have a gallows-cast, poor lad--and
all for nought, as I am a true dame. Damian!--no, no, it is not Damian, or damson neither--but
Randal Lacy, that must rule the roast, and have all the old man's lands, and livings, and lordships."

"What?" said the Constable--"before they know whether the old man. is dead or no?-Methinks
that were against law and reason both."

"Ay, but Randal Lacy has brought about less likely matters. Look you, he hath sworn to the
King that they have true tidings of the Constable's death--ay, and let him alone to make them
soothfast enough, if the Constable were once within his danger."

"Indeed!" said the Constable. "But you are forging tales on a noble gentleman. Come, come,
dame, you say this because you like not Randal Lacy."

"Like him not!--And what reason have I to like him, I trow?" answered Gillian. "Is it because
he seduced my simplicity to let him into the castle of the Garde Doloureuse-ay, oftener than
once or twice either,-when he was disguised as a pedlar, and told him all the secrets of the
family, and how the boy Damian, and the girl Eveline, were dying of love with each other, but
had not courage to say a word of it, for fear of the Constable, though he were a thousand miles
off?-You seem concerned, worthy sir--may I offer your reverend worship a trifling sup from
my bottle, which is sovereign for tremor cordis, and fits of the spleen?"

"No, no," ejaculated De Lacy--"I was but grieved with the shooting of an old wound. But, dame,
I warrant me this Damian and Eveline, as you call them, became better, closer friends, in time?"

"They?--not they indeed, poor simpletons!" answered the dame; "they wanted some wise counsellor
to go between and advise them. For, look you, sir, if old Hugo be dead, as is most like, it
were more natural that his bride and his nephew should inherit his lands, than this same Randal
who is but a distant kinsman, and a foresworn caitiff to boot.--Would you think it, reverend
pilgrim, after the mountains of gold he promised me?--when the castle was taken, and he saw
I could serve him no more, he called me old beldame, and spoke of the beadle and the cucking-stool.--Yes,
reverend sir, old beldame and cucking-stool were his best words, when he knew I had no one
to take my part, save old Raoul, who cannot take his own. But if grim old Hugh bring back his
weatherbeaten carcass from Palestine, and have but half the devil in him which he had when
he was fool enough to go away, Saint Mary, but I will do his kinsman's office to him!"

There was a pause when she had done speaking.

"Thou say'st," at length exclaimed the Constable, "that Damian de Lacy and Eveline love each
other, yet are unconscious of guilt or falsehood, or ingratitude to me--I would say, to their
relative in Palestine!"

"Love, sir!--in troth and so it is--they do love each other," said Gillian; "but it is like
angels--or like lambs--or like fools, if you will; for they would never so much as have spoken
together, but for a prank of that same Randal Lacy's."

"How!" demanded the Constable--"a prank of Randal's?--What motive had he that these two should
meet?"

"Nay, their meeting was none of his seeking; but he had formed a plan to carry off the Lady
Eveline himself, for he was a wild rover, this same Randal; and so he came disguised as a merchant
of falcons, and trained out my old stupid Raoul, and the Lady Eveline, and all of us, as if
to have an hour's mirth in hawking at the heron. But he had a band of Welsh kites in readiness
to pounce upon us; and but for the sudden making in of Damian to our rescue, it is undescribable
to think what might have come of us; and Damian being hurt in the onslaught, was carried to
the Garde Doloureuse in mere necessity; and but to save his life, it is my belief my lady would
never have asked him to cross the drawbridge, even if he had offered."

"Woman," said the Constable, "think what thou say'st! If thou hast done evil in these matters
heretofore, as I suspect from thine own story, think not to put it right by a train of new
falsehoods, merely from spite at missing thy reward."

"Palmer," said old Raoul, with his broken-toned voice, cracked by many a hollo, "I am wont
to leave the business of tale-bearing to my wife Gillian, who will tongue-pad it with any shrew
in Christendom. But thou speak'st like one having some interest in these matters, and therefore
I will tell thee plainly, that although this woman has published her own shame in avowing her
correspondence with that same Randal Lacy, yet what she has said is true as the gospel; and,
were it my last word, I would say that Damian and the Lady Eveline are innocent of all treason
and all dishonesty, as is the babe unborn.--But what avails what the like of us say, who are
even driven to the very begging for mere support, after having lived at a good house, and in
a good lord's service-blessing be with him!"

"But hark you," continued the Constable, "are there left no ancient servants of the House,
that could speak out as well as you?" "Humph!" answered the huntsman--"men are not willing
to babble when Randal Lacy is cracking his thong above their heads. Many are slain, or starved
to death--some disposed of--some spirited away. But there are the weaver Flammock and his daughter
Rose, who know as much of the matter as we do."

"What!--Wilkin Flammock the stout Netherlander?" said the Constable; "he and his blunt but
true daughter Rose?--I will venture my life on their faith. Where dwell they?--What has been
their lot amidst these changes?" "And in God's name who are you that ask these questions?"
said Dame Gillian. "Husband, husband-- we have been too free; there is something in that look
and that tone which I should remember."

"Yes, look at me more fixedly," said the Constable, throwing "back the hood which had hitherto
in some degree obscured his features.

"On your knees--on your knees, Raoul!" exclaimed Gillian, dropping on her own at the same time;
"it is the Constable himself, and he has heard me call him old Hugh!"

"It is all that is left of him who was the Constable, at least," replied De Lacy; "and old
Hugh willingly forgives your freedom, in consideration of your good news. Where are Flammock
and his daughter?"

"Rose is with the Lady Eveline," said Dame Gillian; "her ladyship, belike, chose her for bower-woman
in place of me, although Rose was never fit to attire so much as a Dutch doll."

"The faithful girl!" said the Constable. "And where is Flammock?"

"Oh, for him, he has pardon and favour from the King," said Raoul; "and is at his own house,
with his rabble of weavers, close beside the Battle-bridge, as they now call the place where
your lordship quelled the Welsh."

"Thither will I then," said the Constable; "and will then see what welcome King Henry of Anjou
has for an old servant. You two must accompany me."

"My lord," said Gillian, with hesitation, "you know poor folk are little thanked for interference
with great men's affairs. I trust your lordship will be able to protect us if we speak the
truth; and that you will not look back with displeasure on what I did, acting for the best."

"Peace, dame, with a wanion to ye!" said Raoul. "Will you think of your own old sinful carcass,
when you should be saving your sweet young mistress from shame and oppression?--And for thy
ill tongue, and worse practices, his lordship knows they are bred in the bone of thee."

"Peace, good fellow!" said the Constable; "we will not look back on thy wife's errors, and
your fidelity shall be rewarded.--For you, my faithful followers," he said, turning towards
Guarine and Vidal, "when De Lacy shall receive his rights, of which he doubts nothing, his
first wish shall be to reward your fidelity."

"Mine, such as it is, has been and shall be its own reward," said Vidal. "I will not accept
favours from him in prosperity, who, in adversity, refused me his hand--our account stands
yet open."

"Go to, thou art a fool; but thy profession hath a privilege to be humorous," said the Constable,
whose weatherbeaten and homely features looked even handsome, when animated by gratitude to
Heaven and benevolence towards mankind. "We will meet," he said, "at Battle-bridge, an hour
before vespers--I shall have much achieved before that time."

"The space is short," said his esquire.

"I have won a battle in yet shorter," replied the Constable.

"In which," said the minstrel, "many a man has died that thought himself well assured of life
and victory."

"Even so shall my dangerous cousin Randal find his schemes of ambition blighted," answered
the Constable; and rode forwards, accompanied by Raoul and his wife, who had remounted their
palfrey, while the minstrel and squire followed a-foot, and, of course, much more slowly.

CHAPTER THE THIRTY-FIRST

   "Oh, fear not, fear not, good Lord John,
   That I would you betray,
   Or sue requital for a debt,
   Which nature cannot pay.
   Bear witness, all ye sacred powers--
   Ye lights that 'gin to shine--
   This night shall prove the sacred tie
   That binds your faith and mine."
     ANCIENT SCOTTISH BALLAD.

Left behind by their master, the two dependants of Hugh de Lacy marched on in sullen silence,
like men who dislike and distrust each other, though bound to one common service, and partners,
therefore, in the same hopes and fears. The dislike, indeed, was chiefly upon Guarine's side;
for nothing could be more indifferent to Renault Vidal than was his companion, farther than
as he was conscious that Philip loved him not, and was not unlikely, so far as lay in his power,
to thwart some plans which he had nearly at heart. He took little notice of his companion,
but hummed over to himself, as for the exercise of his memory, romances and songs, many of
which were composed in languages which Guarine, who had only an ear for his native Norman,
did not understand.

They had proceeded together in this sullen manner for nearly two hours, when they were met
by a groom on horseback, leading a saddled palfrey. "Pilgrims," said the man, after looking
at them with some attention, "which of you is called Philip Guarine?"

"I, for fault of a better," said the esquire, "reply to that name."

"Thy lord, in that case, commends him to you," said the groom; "and sends you this token, by
which you shall know that I am his true messenger."

He showed the esquire a rosary, which Philip instantly recognized as that used by the Constable.

"I acknowledge the token," he said; "speak my master's pleasure."

"He bids me say," replied the rider, "that his visit thrives as well as is possible, and that
this very evening, by time that the sun sets, he will be possessed of his own. He desires,
therefore, you will mount this palfrey, and come with me to the Garde Doloureuse, as your presence
would be wanted there."

"It is well, and I obey him," said the esquire, much pleased with the Import of the message,
and not dissatisfied at being separated from his travelling companion.

"And what charge for me?" said the minstrel, addressing the messenger.

"If you, as I guess, are the minstrel, Renault Vidal, you are to abide your master at the Battle-bridge,
according to the charge formerly given."

"I will meet him, as in duty bound," was Vidal's answer; and scarce was it uttered, ere the
two horsemen, turning their backs on him, rode briskly forward, and were speedily out of sight.

It was now four hours past noon, and the sun was declining, yet there was more than three hours'
space to the time of rendezvous, and the distance from the place did not now exceed four miles.
Vidal, therefore, either for the sake of rest or reflection, withdrew from the path into a
thicket on the left hand, from which gushed the waters of a streamlet, fed by a small fountain
that bubbled up amongst the trees. Here the traveller sat himself down, and with an air which
seemed unconscious of what he was doing, bent his eye on the little sparkling font for more
than half an hour, without change of posture; so that he might, in Pagan times, have represented
the statue of a water-god bending over his urn, and attentive only to the supplies which it
was pouring forth. At length, however, he seemed to recall himself from this state of deep
abstraction, drew himself up, and took some coarse food from his pilgrim's scrip, as if suddenly
reminded that life is not supported without means. But he had probably something at his heart
which affected his throat or appetite. After a vain attempt to swallow a morsel, he threw it
from him in disgust, and applied him to a small flask, in which he had some wine or other liquor.
But seemingly this also turned distasteful, for he threw from him both scrip and bottle, and,
bending down to the spring, drank deeply of the pure element, bathed in it his hands and face,
and arising from the fountain apparently refreshed, moved slowly on his way, singing as he
went, but in a low and saddened tone, wild fragments of ancient poetry, in a tongue equally
ancient.

Journeying on in this melancholy manner, he at length came in sight of the Battle-bridge; near
to which arose, in proud and gloomy strength, the celebrated castle of the Garde Doloureuse.
"Here, then," he said--"here, then, I am to await the proud De Lacy. Be it so, in God's name!--he
shall know me better ere we part."

So saying, he strode, with long and resolved steps, across the bridge, and ascending a mound
which arose on the opposite side at some distance, he gazed for a time upon the scene beneath--the
beautiful river, rich with the reflected tints of the western sky-- the trees, which were already
brightened to the eye, and saddened to the fancy, with the hue of autumn--and the darksome
walls and towers of the feudal castle, from which, at times, flashed a glimpse of splendour,
as some sentinel's arms caught and gave back a transient ray of the setting sun.

The countenance of the minstrel, which had hitherto been dark and troubled, seemed softened
by the quiet of the scene. He threw loose his pilgrim's dress, yet suffering part of its dark
folds to hang around him mantle-wise; under which appeared his minstrel's tabard. He took from
his side a rote, and striking, from time to time, a "Welsh descant, sung at others a lay, of
which we can offer only a few fragments, literally translated from the ancient language in
which they were chanted, premising that they are in that excursive symbolical style of poetry,
which Taliessin, Llewarch Hen, and other bards, had derived perhaps from the time of the Druids.

  "I asked of my harp, 'Who hath injured thy chords?'
  And she replied, 'The crooked finger, which I mocked in my tune.'
  A blade of silver may be bended--a blade of steel abideth--
  Kindness fadeth away, but vengeance endureth.

  "The sweet taste of mead passeth from the lips,
  But they are long corroded by the juice of wormwood;
  The lamb is brought to the shambles, but the wolf rangeth the mountain;
  Kindness fadeth away, but vengeance endureth.

  "I asked the red-hot iron, when it glimmered on the anvil,
  'Wherefore glowest thou longer than the firebrand?'--
  'I was born in the dark mine, and the brand in the pleasant greenwood.'
  Kindness fadeth away, but vengeance endureth.

  "I asked the green oak of the assembly, wherefore its boughs
    were dry and seared like the horns of the stag?
  And it showed me that a small worm had gnawed its roots.
  The boy who remembered the scourge, undid the wicket of the
    castle at midnight.
  Kindness fadeth away, but vengeance endureth.

  "Lightning destroyeth temples, though their spires pierce the clouds;
  Storms destroy armadas, though their sails intercept the gale.
  He that is in his glory falleth, and that by a contemptible enemy.
  Kindness fadeth away, but vengeance endureth."

More of the same wild images were thrown out, each bearing some analogy, however fanciful and
remote, to the theme, which occurred like a chorus at the close of each stanza; so that the
poetry resembled a piece of music, which, after repeated excursions through fanciful variations,
returns ever and anon to the simple melody which is the subject of ornament.

As the minstrel sung, his eyes were fixed on the bridge and its vicinity; but when, near the
close of his chant, he raised up his eyes towards the distant towers of the Garde Doloureuse,
he saw that the gates were opened, and that there was a mustering of guards and attendants
without the barriers, as if some expedition were about to set forth, or some person of importance
to appear on the scene. At the same time, glancing his eyes around, he discovered that the
landscape, so solitary when he first took his seat on the gray stone from which he overlooked
it, was now becoming filled with figures.

During his reverie, several persons, solitary and in groups, men, women, and children, had
begun to assemble themselves on both sides of the river, and were loitering there, as if expecting
some spectacle. There was also much bustling at the Fleming's mills, which, though at some
distance, were also completely under his eye. A procession seemed to be arranging itself there,
which soon began to move forward, with pipe and tabor, and various other instruments of music,
and soon approached, in regular order, the place where Vidal was seated.

It appeared the business in hand was of a pacific character; for the gray-bearded old men of
the little settlement, in their decent russet gowns, came first after the rustic band of music,
walking in ranks of three and three, supported by their staves, and regulating the motion of
the whole procession by their sober and staid pace. After these fathers of the settlement came
Wilkin Flammock, mounted on his mighty war-horse, and in complete armor, save his head, like
a vassal prepared to do military service for his lord. After him followed, and in battle rank,
the flower of the little colony, consisting of thirty men, well armed and appointed, whose
steady march, as well as their clean and glittering armour, showed steadiness and discipline,
although they lacked alike the fiery glance of the French soldiery, or the look of dogged defiance
which characterized the English, or the wild ecstatic impetuosity of eye which then distinguished
the Welsh. The mothers and the maidens of the colony came next; then followed the children,
with faces as chubby, and features as serious, and steps as grave as their parents; and last,
as a rear-guard, came the youths from fourteen to twenty, armed with light lances, bows, and
similar weapons becoming their age.

This procession wheeled around the base of the mound or embankment on which the minstrel was
seated; crossed the bridge with the same slow and regular pace, and formed themselves into
a double line, facing inwards, as if to receive some person of consequence, or witness some
ceremonial. Flammock remained at the extremity of the avenue thus formed by his countrymen,
and quietly, yet earnestly, engaged in making arrangements and preparations.

In the meanwhile, stragglers of different countries began to draw together, apparently brought
there by mere curiosity, and formed a motley assemblage at the farther end of the bridge, which
was that nearest to the castle. Two English peasants passed very near the stone on which Vidal
sat--"Wilt thou sing us a song, minstrel," said one of them, "and here is a tester for thee?"
throwing into his hat a small silver coin.

"I am under a vow," answered the minstrel, "and may not practise the gay science at present."

"Or you are too proud to play to English churls," said the elder peasant, "for thy tongue smacks
of the Norman."

"Keep the coin, nevertheless," said the younger man. "Let the palmer have what the minstrel
refuses to earn."

"I pray you reserve your bounty, kind friend," said Vidal, "I need it not;--and tell me of
your kindness, instead, what matters are going forward here."

"Why, know you not that we have got our Constable de Lacy again, and that he is to grant solemn
investiture to the Flemish weavers of all these fine things Harry of Anjou has given?--Had
Edward the Confessor been alive, to give the Netherland knaves their guerdon, it would have
been a cast of the gallows-tree. But come, neighbour, we shall lose the show."

So saying, they pressed down the hill. Vidal fixed his eyes on the gates of the distant castle;
and the distant waving of banners, and mustering of men on horseback, though imperfectly seen
at such a distance, apprized him that one of note was about to set forth at the head of a considerable
train of military attendants. Distant flourishes of trumpets, which came faintly yet distinctly
on his ear, seemed to attest the same. Presently he perceived, by the dust which began to arise
in columns betwixt the castle and the bridge, as well as by the nearer sound of the clarions,
that the troop was advancing towards him in procession.

Vidal, on his own part, seemed as if irresolute whether to retain his present position, where
he commanded a full but remote view of the whole scene, or to obtain a nearer but more partial
one, by involving himself in the crowd which now closed around on either hand of the bridge,
unless where the avenue was kept open by the armed and arrayed Flemings.

A monk next hurried past Vidal, and on his enquiring as formerly the cause of the assembly,
answered, in a muttering tone, from beneath his hood, that it was the Constable de Lacy, who,
as the first act of his authority, was then and there to deliver to the Flemings a royal charter
of their immunities. "He is in haste to exercise his authority, methinks," said the minstrel.

"He that has just gotten a sword is impatient to draw it," replied the monk, who added more
which the minstrel understood imperfectly; for Father Aldrovand had not recovered the injury
which he had received during the siege.

Vidal, however, understood him to say, that he was to meet the Constable there, to beg his
favourable intercession.

"I also will meet him," said Renault Vidal, rising suddenly from the stone which he occupied.

"Follow me, then," mumbled the priest; "the Flemings know me, and will let me forward."

But Father Aldrovand being in disgrace, his influence was not so potent as he had flattered
himself; and both he and the minstrel were jostled to and fro in the crowd, and separated from
each other.

Vidal, however, was recognized by the English peasants who had before spoke to him. "Canst
thou do any jugglers' feats, minstrel?" said one. "Thou may'st earn a fair largess, for our
Norman masters love jonglerie."

"I know but one," said Vidal, "and I will show it, if you will yield me some room."

They crowded a little off from him, and gave him time to throw aside his oonnet, bare his legs
and knees, by stripping off the leathern buskins which swathed them, and retaining only his
sandals. He then tied a parti-coloured handkerchief around his swarthy and sunburnt hair, and
casting off his upper doublet, showed his brawny and nervous arms naked to the shoulder.

But while he amused those immediately about him with these preparations, a commotion and rush
among the crowd, together with the close sound of trumpets, answered by all the Flemish instruments
of music, as well as the shouts in Norman and English, of "Long live the gallant Constable!--Our
Lady for the bold De Lacy!" announced that the Constable was close at hand.

Vidal made incredible exertions to approach the leader of the procession, whose morion, distinguished
by its lofty plumes, and right hand holding his truncheon, or leading-staff, was all he could
see, on account of the crowd of officers and armed men around him. At length his exertions
prevailed, and he came within three yards of the Constable, who was then in a small circle
which had been with difficulty kept clear for the purpose of the ceremonial of the day. His
back was towards the minstrel, and he was in the act of bending from his horse to deliver the
royal charter to Wilkin Flammock, who had knelt on one knee to receive it the more reverentially.
His discharge of this duty occasioned the Constable to stoop so low that his plume seemed in
the act of mixing with the flowing mane of his noble charger.

At this moment, Vidal threw himself, with singular agility, over the heads of the Flemings
who guarded the circle; and, ere an eye could twinkle, his right knee was on the croupe of
the Constable's horse--the grasp of his left hand on the collar of De Lacy's buff- coat; then,
clinging to its prey like a tiger after its leap, he drew, in the same instant of time, a short,
sharp dagger--and buried it in the back of the neck, just where the spine, which was severed
by the stroke, serves to convey to the trunk of the human body the mysterious influences of
the brain. The blow was struck with the utmost accuracy of aim and strength of arm. The unhappy
horseman dropped from his saddle, without groan or struggle, like a bull in the amphitheatre,
under the steel of the tauridor; and in the same saddle sat his murderer, brandishing the bloody
poniard, and urging the horse to speed.

There was indeed a possibility of his having achieved his escape, so much were those around
paralyzed for the moment by the suddenness and audacity of the enterprise; but Flammock's presence
of mind did not forsake him--he seized the horse by the bridle, and, aided by those who wanted
but an example, made the rider prisoner, bound his arms, and called aloud that he must be carried
before King Henry. This proposal, uttered in Flammock's strong and decided tone of voice, silenced
a thousand wild cries of murder and treason, which had arisen while the different and hostile
natives, of which the crowd was composed, threw upon each other reciprocally the charge of
treachery.

All the streams, however, now assembled in one channel, and poured with unanimous assent towards
the Garde Doloureuse, excepting a few of the murdered nobleman's train, who remained to transport
their master's body, in decent solemnity of mourning, from the spot which he had sought with
so much pomp and triumph.

When Flammock reached the Garde Doloureuse, he was readily admitted with his prisoner, and
with such witnesses as he had selected to prove the execution of the crime. To his request
of an audience, he was answered, that the King had commanded that none should be admitted to
him for some time; yet so singular were the tidings of the Constable's slaughter, that the
captain of the guard ventured to interrupt Henry's privacy, in order to communicate that event;
and returned with orders that Flammock and his prisoner should be instantly admitted to the
royal apartment. Here they found Henry, attended by several persons, who stood respectfully
behind the royal seat, in a darkened part of the room.

When Flammock entered, his large bulk and massive limbs were strangely contrasted with cheeks
pale with horror at what he had just witnessed, and with awe at finding himself in the royal
presence-chamber. Beside him stood his prisoner, undaunted by the situation in which he was
placed. The blood of his victim, which had spirited from the wound, was visible on his bare
limbs and his scanty garments; but particularly upon his brow and the handkerchief with which
it was bound.

Henry gazed on him with a stern look, which the other not only endured without dismay, but
seemed to return with a frown of defiance.

"Does no one know this caitiff?" said Henry, looking around him.

There was no immediate answer, until Philip Guarine, stepping from the group which stood behind
the royal chair, said, though with hesitation, "So please you, my liege, but for the strange
guise in which he is now arrayed, I should say there was a household minstrel of my master,
by name Renault Vidal."

"Thou art deceived, Norman," replied the minstrel; "my menial place and base lineage were but
assumed!--I am Cadwallon the Briton--Cadwallon of the Nine Lays--Cadwallon, the chief bard
of Gwenwyn of Powys-land--and his avenger!"

As he uttered the last word, his looks encountered those of a palmer, who had gradually advanced
from the recess in which the attendants were stationed, and now confronted him.

The Welshman's eyes looked eagerly ghastly, as if flying from their sockets, while he exclaimed,
in a tone of surprise, mingled with horror, "Do the dead come before monarchs?--Or, if thou
art alive, whom have I slain?--I dreamed not, surely, of that bound, and of that home-blow?--yet
my victim, stands before me! Have I not slain the Constable of Chester?"

"Thou hast indeed slain the Constable," answered the King; "but know, Welshman, it was Randal
de Lacy, on whom that charge was this morning conferred, by our belief of our loyal and faithful
Hugh de Lacy's having been lost upon his return from the Holy Land, as the vessel in which
ho had taken passage was reported to have suffered shipwreck. Thou hast cut short Randal's
brief elevation but by a few hours; for to-morrow's sun would have again seen him without land
or lordship."

The prisoner dropped his head on his bosom in evident despair. "I thought," he murmured, "that
he had changed his slough, and come forth so glorious, all too soon. May the eyes drop out
that were cheated with those baubles, a plumed cap and a lacquered baton!"

"I will take care, Welshman, thine eyes cheat thee not again," said the King, sternly; "before
the night is an hour older, they shall be closed on all that is earthly."

"May I request of your nobleness," said the Constable, "that you will permit me to ask the
unhappy man a few questions?"

"When I have demanded of him myself," said the King, "why he has dipt his hands in the blood
of a noble Norman."

"Because he at whom I aimed my blow," said the Briton, his eye glancing fiercely from the King
to De Lacy, and back, "had spilled the blood of the descendant of a thousand kings; to which
his own gore, or thine, proud Count of Anjou, is but as the puddle of the highway to the silver
fountain."

Henry's eye menaced the audacious speaker; but the King reined in his wrath when he beheld
the imploring look of his servant.--"What wouldst thou ask of him?" he said; "be brief, for
his time is short."

"So please you, my liege, I would but demand wherefore he has for years forborne to take the
life he aimed at, when it was in his power--nay, when it must have been lost but for his seemingly
faithful service?"

"Norman," said Cadwallon, "I will answer thee. When I first took upon me thy service, it was
well my purpose to have slain thee that night. There stands the man," pointing to Philip Guarine,
"to whose vigilance thou owedst thy safety."

"Indeed," said De Lacy, "I do remember some indications of such a purpose; but why didst thou
forego it, when following opportunities put it in thy power?"

"When the slayer of my sovereign became God's soldier," answered Cadwallon, "and served his
cause in Palestine, he was safe from my earthly vengeance."

"A wonderful forbearance on the part of a Welsh assassin!" said the King, scornfully.

"Ay," answered Cadwallon; "and which certain Christian princes have scarce attained to, who
have never neglected the chance of pillage or conquest afforded by the absence of a rival in
the Holy Crusade."

"Now, by the Holy Rood"--said Henry, on the point of bursting out, for the insult affected
him peculiarly; but, suddenly stopping, he said, with an air of contempt, "To the gallows with
the knave!"

"But one other question," said De Lacy, "Renault, or by whatever name thou art called. Ever
since my return thou hast rendered me service inconsistent with thy stern resolution upon my
life--thou didst aid me in my shipwreck--and didst guide me safely through Wales, where my
name would have ensured my death; and all this after the crusade was accomplished?"

"I could explain thy doubt," said the bard, "but that it might be thought I was pleading for
my life."

"Hesitate riot for that," said the King; "for were our Holy Father to Intercede for thee, his
prayer were in vain."

"Well then," said the bard, "know the truth--I was too proud to permit either wave or Welshman
to share in my revenge. Know also, what is perhaps Cadwallon's weakness--use and habit had
divided my feelings towards De Lacy, between aversion and admiration. I still contemplated
my revenge, but as something which I might never complete, and which seemed rather an image
in the clouds, than an object to which I must one day draw near. And when I beheld thee," he
said, turning to De Lacy, "this very day so determined, so sternly resolved, to bear thy impending
fate like a man--that you seemed to me to resemble the last tower of a ruined palace, still
holding its head to heaven, when its walls of splendour, and its bowers of delight, lay in
desolation around--may I perish, I said to myself in secret, ere I perfect its ruin! Yes, De
Lacy, then, even then--but some hours since--hadst thou accepted my proffered hand, I had served
thee as never follower served master. You rejected it with scorn--and yet notwithstanding that
insult, it required that I should have seen you, as I thought, trampling over the field in
which you slew my master, in the full pride of Norman insolence, to animate my resolution to
strike the blow, which, meant for you, has slain at least one of your usurping race.--I will
answer no more questions--lead on to axe or gallows--it is indifferent to Cadwallon--my soul
will soon be with my free and noble ancestry, and with my beloved and royal patron." 

He'meant d die upon door-step! NURSE.

Can't to be helped-- out he goes at-night and nuss mistake! The men
are comin'to the sunrise to-gallows. Good W. deary me! Well-- nighest-day!
I'll no him rejected no longer-- and the landlord wants the room.



"Rise, rise, De Lacy; and shame thee of thy petition," said the King "Thy kinsman's blood-the
blood of a noble Norman, is on the Welshman's hands and brow. As I am crowned King, he shall
die ere it is wiped off.--Here! have him to present execution!"

Cadwallon was instantly withdrawn under a guard. The Constable seemed, by action rather than
words, to continue his intercession.

"Thou art mad, De Lacy--thou art mad, mine old and true friend, to urge me thus," said the
King, compelling De Lacy to rise. "See'st thou not that my care in this matter is for thee?--This
Randal, by largesses and promises, hath made many friends, who will not, perhaps, easily again
be brought to your allegiance, returning as thou dost, diminished in power and wealth. Had
he lived, we might have had hard work to deprive him entirely of the power which he had acquired.
We thank the Welsh assassin who hath rid us of him; but his adherents would cry foul play were
the murderer spared. When blood is paid for blood, all will be forgotten, and their loyalty
will once more flow in its proper channel to thee, their lawful lord."

Hugo de Lacy arose from his knees, and endeavoured respectfully to combat the politic reasons
of his wily sovereign, which he plainly saw were resorted to less for his sake than with the
prudent purpose of effecting the change of feudal authority, with the |east possible trouble
to the country or Sovereign.

Henry listened to De Lacy's arguments patiently, and combated them
with temper, until the death-drum began--to beat, and the castle
bell to toll. He then led De Lacy to the window; on which, for it
was now dark, a strong ruddy light began to gleam from without. A
body of men-at-arms, each holding in his hand a blazing torch,
were returning along the terrace from the execution of the wild
but high-soul'd Briton, with cries of "Long live King Henry! and
so perish all enemies of the gentle Norman men!"
     COLERIDGE.

Popular fame had erred in assigning to Eveline Berenger, after the capture of her castle, any
confinement more severe than that of her aunt the Lady Abbess of the Cistertians' convent afforded.
Yet that was severe enough; for maiden aunts, whether abbesses or no, are not tolerant of the
species of errors of which Eveline was accused; and the innocent damosel was brought in many
ways to eat her bread in shame of countenance and bitterness of heart. Every day of her confinement
was rendered less and less endurable by taunts, in the various forms of sympathy, consolation,
and exhortation; but which, stript of their assumed forms, were undisguised anger and insult.
The company of Rose was all which Eveline had to sustain her under these inflictions, and that
was at length withdrawn on the very morning when so many important events took place at the
Garde Doloureuse.

The unfortunate young lady inquired in vain of a grim-faced nun. who appeared in Rose's place
to assist her to dress, why her companion and friend was debarred attendance. The nun observed
on that score an obstinate silence, but threw out many hints on the importance attached to
the vain ornaments of a frail child of clay, and on the hardship that even a spouse of Heaven
was compelled to divert her thoughts from her higher duties, and condescend to fasten clasps
and adjust veils.

The Lady Abbess, however, told her niece after matins, that her attendant had not been withdrawn
from her for a space only, but was likely to be shut up in a house of the severest profession,
for having afforded her mistress assistance in receiving Damian de Lacy into her sleeping apartment
at the castle of Baldringham.

