LETTERS OF TRAVEL

THE DOMINIONS EDITION

LETTERS OF TRAVEL

(1892-1913)

BY RUDYARD KIPLING

MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED ST. MARTIN'S STREET, LONDON 1920

The Letters entitled 'FROM TIDEWAY TO TIDEWAY' were published originally in The Times; those
entitled 'LETTERS TO THE FAMILY' in The Morning Post; and those entitled 'EGYPT OF THE MAGICIANS'
in Nash's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

IN SIGHT OF MONADNOCK

After the gloom of gray Atlantic weather, our ship came to America in a flood of winter sunshine
that made unaccustomed eyelids blink, and the New Yorker, who is nothing if not modest, said,
'This isn't a sample of our really fine days. Wait until such and such times come, or go to
such and a such a quarter of the city.' We were content, and more than content, to drift aimlessly
up and down the brilliant streets, wondering a little why the finest light should be wasted
on the worst pavements in the world; to walk round and round Madison Square, because that was
full of beautifully dressed babies playing counting-out games, or to gaze reverently at the
broad-shouldered, pug-nosed Irish New York policemen. Wherever we went there was the sun, lavish
and unstinted, working nine hours a day, with the colour and the clean-cut lines of perspective
that he makes. That any one should dare to call this climate muggy, yea, even 'subtropical,'
was a shock. There came such a man, and he said, 'Go north if you want weather--weather that
is weather. Go to New England.' So New York passed away upon a sunny afternoon, with her roar
and rattle, her complex smells, her triply over-heated rooms, and much too energetic inhabitants,
while the train went north to the lands where the snow lay. It came in one sweep--almost, it
seemed, in one turn of the wheels--covering the winter-killed grass and turning the frozen
ponds that looked so white under the shadow of lean trees into pools of ink.

As the light closed in, a little wooden town, white, cloaked, and dumb, slid past the windows,
and the strong light of the car lamps fell upon a sleigh (the driver furred and muffled to
his nose) turning the corner of a street. Now the sleigh of a picture-book, however well one
knows it, is altogether different from the thing in real life, a means of conveyance at a journey's
end; but it is well not to be over-curious in the matter, for the same American who has been
telling you at length how he once followed a kilted Scots soldier from Chelsea to the Tower,
out of pure wonder and curiosity at his bare knees and sporran, will laugh at your interest
in 'just a cutter.'

The staff of the train--surely the great American nation would be lost if deprived of the ennobling
society of brakeman, conductor, Pullman-car conductor, negro porter, and newsboy--told pleasant
tales, as they spread themselves at ease in the smoking compartments, of snowings up the line
to Montreal, of desperate attacks--four engines together and a snow-plough in front--on drifts
thirty feet high, and the pleasures of walking along the tops of goods wagons to brake a train,
with the thermometer thirty below freezing. 'It comes cheaper to kill men that way than to
put air-brakes on freight-cars,' said the brakeman.

Thirty below freezing! It was inconceivable till one stepped out into it at midnight, and the
first shock of that clear, still air took away the breath as does a plunge into sea-water.
A walrus sitting on a woolpack was our host in his sleigh, and he wrapped us in hairy goatskin
coats, caps that came down over the ears, buffalo robes and blankets, and yet more buffalo-robes
till we, too, looked like walruses and moved almost as gracefully. The night was as keen as
the edge of a newly-ground sword; breath froze on the coat-lapels in snow; the nose became
without sensation, and the eyes wept bitterly because the horses were in a hurry to get home;
and whirling through air at zero brings tears. But for the jingle of the sleigh-bells the ride
might have taken place in a dream, for there was no sound of hoofs upon the snow, the runners
sighed a little now and again as they glided over an inequality, and all the sheeted hills
round about were as dumb as death. Only the Connecticut River kept up its heart and a lane
of black water through the packed ice; we could hear the stream worrying round the heels of
its small bergs. Elsewhere there was nothing but snow under the moon--snow drifted to the level
of the stone fences or curling over their tops in a lip of frosted silver; snow banked high
on either side of the road, or lying heavy on the pines and the hemlocks in the woods, where
the air seemed, by comparison, as warm as a conservatory. It was beautiful beyond expression,
Nature's boldest sketch in black and white, done with a Japanese disregard of perspective,
and daringly altered from time to time by the restless pencils of the moon.

In the morning the other side of the picture was revealed in the colours of the sunlight. There
was never a cloud in the sky that rested on the snow-line of the horizon as a sapphire on white
velvet. Hills of pure white, or speckled and furred with woods, rose up above the solid white
levels of the fields, and the sun rioted over their embroideries till the eyes ached. Here
and there on the exposed slopes the day's warmth--the thermometer was nearly forty degrees--and
the night's cold had made a bald and shining crust upon the snow; but the most part was soft
powdered stuff, ready to catch the light on a thousand crystals and multiply it sevenfold.
Through this magnificence, and thinking nothing of it, a wood-sledge drawn by two shaggy red
steers, the unbarked logs diamond-dusted with snow, shouldered down the road in a cloud of
frosty breath. It is the mark of inexperience in this section of the country to confound a
sleigh which you use for riding with the sledge that is devoted to heavy work; and it is, I
believe, a still greater sign of worthlessness to think that oxen are driven, as they are in
most places, by scientific twisting of the tail. The driver with red mittens on his hands,
felt overstockings that come up to his knees, and, perhaps, a silvery-gray coon-skin coat on
his back, walks beside, crying, 'Gee, haw!' even as is written in American stories. And the
speech of the driver explains many things in regard to the dialect story, which at its best
is an infliction to many. Now that I have heard the long, unhurried drawl of Vermont, my wonder
is, not that the New England tales should be printed in what, for the sake of argument, we
will call English and its type, but rather that they should not have appeared in Swedish or
Russian. Our alphabet is too limited. This part of the country belongs by laws unknown to the
United States, but which obtain all the world over, to the New England story and the ladies
who write it. You feel this in the air as soon as you see the white-painted wooden houses left
out in the snow, the austere schoolhouse, and the people--the men of the farms, the women who
work as hard as they with, it may be, less enjoyment of life--the other houses, well painted
and quaintly roofed, that belong to Judge This, Lawyer That, and Banker Such an one; all powers
in the metropolis of six thousand folk over by the railway station. More acutely still, do
you realise the atmosphere when you read in the local paper announcements of 'chicken suppers'
and 'church sociables' to be given by such and such a denomination, sandwiched between paragraphs
of genial and friendly interest, showing that the countryside live (and without slaying each
other) on terms of terrifying intimacy.

The folk of the old rock, the dwellers in the older houses, born and raised hereabouts, would
not live out of the town for any consideration, and there are insane people from the South--men
and women from Boston and the like--who actually build houses out in the open country, two,
and even three miles from Main Street which is nearly 400 yards long, and the centre of life
and population. With the strangers, more particularly if they do not buy their groceries 'in
the street,' which means, and is, the town, the town has little to do; but it knows everything,
and much more also, that goes on among them. Their dresses, their cattle, their views, the
manners of their children, their manner towards their servants, and every other conceivable
thing, is reported, digested, discussed, and rediscussed up and down Main Street. Now, the
wisdom of Vermont, not being at all times equal to grasping all the problems of everybody else's
life with delicacy, sometimes makes pathetic mistakes, and the town is set by the ears. You
will see, therefore, that towns of a certain size do not differ materially all the world over.
The talk of the men of the farms is of their farms--purchase, mortgage, and sale, recorded
rights, boundary lines, and road tax. It was in the middle of New Zealand, on the edge of the
Wild horse plains, that I heard this talk last, when a man and his wife, twenty miles from
the nearest neighbour, sat up half the night discussing just the same things that the men talked
of in Main Street, Vermont, U.S.A.

There is one man in the State who is much exercised over this place. He is a farm-hand, raised
in a hamlet fifteen or twenty miles from the nearest railway, and, greatly daring, he has wandered
here. The bustle and turmoil of Main Street, the new glare of the electric lights and the five-storeyed
brick business block, frighten and distress him much. He has taken service on a farm well away
from these delirious delights, and, says he, 'I've been offered $25 a month to work in a bakery
at New York. But you don't get me to no New York, I've seen this place an' it just scares me,'
His strength is in the drawing of hay and the feeding of cattle. Winter life on a farm does
not mean the comparative idleness that is so much written of. Each hour seems to have its sixty
minutes of work; for the cattle are housed and eat eternally; the colts must be turned out
for their drink, and the ice broken for them if necessary; then ice must be stored for the
summer use, and then the real work of hauling logs for firewood begins. New England depends
for its fuel on the woods. The trees are 'blazed' in the autumn just before the fall of the
leaf, felled later, cut into four-foot lengths, and, as soon as the friendly snow makes sledging
possible, drawn down to the woodhouse. Afterwards the needs of the farm can be attended to,
and a farm, like an arch, is never at rest. A little later will come maple-sugar time, when
the stately maples are tapped as the sap begins to stir, and be-ringed with absurd little buckets
(a cow being milked into a thimble gives some idea of the disproportion), which are emptied
into cauldrons. Afterwards (this is the time of the 'sugaring-off parties') you pour the boiled
syrup into tins full of fresh snow, where it hardens, and you pretend to help and become very
sticky and make love, boys and girls together. Even the introduction of patent sugar evaporators
has not spoiled the love-making.

There is a certain scarcity of men to make love with; not so much in towns which have their
own manufactories and lie within a lover's Sabbath-day journey of New York, but in the farms
and villages. The men have gone away--the young men are fighting fortune further West, and
the women remain--remain for ever as women must. On the farms, when the children depart, the
old man and the old woman strive to hold things together without help, and the woman's portion
is work and monotony. Sometimes she goes mad to an extent which appreciably affects statistics
and is put down in census reports. More often, let us hope, she dies. In the villages where
the necessity for heavy work is not so urgent the women find consolation in the formation of
literary clubs and circles, and so gather to themselves a great deal of wisdom in their own
way. That way is not altogether lovely. They desire facts and the knowledge that they are at
a certain page in a German or an Italian book before a certain time, or that they have read
the proper books in a proper way. At any rate, they have something to do that seems as if they
were doing something. It has been said that the New England stories are cramped and narrow.
Even a far-off view of the iron-bound life whence they are drawn justifies the author. You
can carve a nut in a thousand different ways by reason of the hardness of the shell.

Twenty or thirty miles across the hills, on the way to the Green Mountains, lie some finished
chapters of pitiful stories--a few score abandoned farms, started in a lean land, held fiercely
so long as there was any one to work them, and then left on the hill-sides. Beyond this desolation
are woods where the bear and the deer still find peace, and sometimes even the beaver forgets
that he is persecuted and dares to build his lodge. These things were told me by a man who
loved the woods for their own sake and not for the sake of slaughter--a quiet, slow-spoken
man of the West, who came across the drifts on show-shoes and refrained from laughing when
I borrowed his foot-gear and tried to walk. The gigantic lawn-tennis bats strung with hide
are not easy to manoeuvre. If you forget to keep the long heels down and trailing in the snow
you turn over and become as a man who fails into deep water with a life-belt tied to his ankles.
If you lose your balance, do not attempt to recover it, but drop, half-sitting and half-kneeling,
over as large an area as possible. When you have mastered the wolf-step, can slide one shoe
above the other deftly, that is to say, the sensation of paddling over a ten-foot-deep drift
and taking short cuts by buried fences is worth the ankle-ache. The man from the West interpreted
to me the signs on the snow, showed how a fox (this section of the country is full of foxes,
and men shoot them because riding is impossible) leaves one kind of spoor, walking with circumspection
as becomes a thief, and a dog, who has nothing to be ashamed of, but widens his four legs and
plunges, another; how coons go to sleep for the winter and squirrels too, and how the deer
on the Canada border trample down deep paths that are called yards and are caught there by
inquisitive men with cameras, who hold them by their tails when the deer have blundered into
deep snow, and so photograph their frightened dignity. He told me of people also--the manners
and customs of New Englanders here, and how they blossom and develop in the Far West on the
newer railway lines, when matters come very nearly to civil war between rival companies racing
for the same cañon; how there is a country not very far away called Caledonia, populated by
the Scotch, who can give points to a New Englander in a bargain, and how these same Scotch-Americans
by birth, name their townships still after the cities of their thrifty race. It was all as
new and delightful as the steady 'scrunch' of the snow-shoes and the dazzling silence of the hills.

Beyond the very furthest range, where the pines turn to a faint blue haze against the one solitary
peak--a real mountain and not a hill--showed like a gigantic thumbnail pointing heavenward.

'And that's Monadnock,' said the man from the West; 'all the hills have Indian names. You left
Wantastiquet on your right coming out of town,'

You know how it often happens that a word shuttles in and out of many years, waking all sorts
of incongruous associations. I had met Monadnock on paper in a shameless parody of Emerson's
style, before ever style or verse had interest for me. But the word stuck because of a rhyme,
in which one was

    ... crowned coeval
  With Monadnock's crest,
    And my wings extended
  Touch the East and West.

Later the same word, pursued on the same principle as that blessed one Mesopotamia, led me
to and through Emerson, up to his poem on the peak itself--the wise old giant 'busy with his
sky affairs,' who makes us sane and sober and free from little things if we trust him. So Monadnock
came to mean everything that was helpful, healing, and full of quiet, and when I saw him half
across New Hampshire he did not fail. In that utter stillness a hemlock bough, overweighted
with snow, came down a foot or two with a tired little sigh; the snow slid off and the little
branch flew nodding back to its fellows.

For the honour of Monadnock there was made that afternoon an image of snow of Gautama Buddha,
something too squat and not altogether equal on both sides, but with an imperial and reposeful
waist. He faced towards the mountain, and presently some men in a wood-sledge came up the road
and faced him. Now, the amazed comments of two Vermont farmers on the nature and properties
of a swag-bellied god are worth hearing. They were not troubled about his race, for he was
aggressively white; but rounded waists seem to be out of fashion in Vermont. At least, they
said so, with rare and curious oaths.

Next day all the idleness and trifling were drowned in a snowstorm that filled the hollows
of the hills with whirling blue mist, bowed the branches of the woods till you ducked, but
were powdered all the same when you drove through, and wiped out the sleighing tracks. Mother
Nature is beautifully tidy if you leave her alone. She rounded off every angle, broke down
every scarp, and tucked the white bedclothes, till not a wrinkle remained, up to the chine
of the spruces and the hemlocks that would not go to sleep.

'Now,' said the man of the West, as we were driving to the station, and alas! to New York,
'all my snow-tracks are gone; but when that snow melts, a week hence or a month hence, they'll
all come up again and show where I've been.'

Curious idea, is it not? Imagine a murder committed in the lonely woods, a snowstorm that covers
the tracks of the flying man before the avenger of blood has buried the body, and then, a week
later, the withdrawal of the traitorous snow, revealing step by step the path Cain took--the
six-inch dee-trail of his snow-shoes--each step a dark disk on the white till the very end.

There is so much, so very much to write, if it were worth while, about that queer little town
by the railway station, with its life running, to all outward seeming, as smoothly as the hack-coupés
on their sleigh mounting, and within disturbed by the hatreds and troubles and jealousies that
vex the minds of all but the gods. For instance--no, it is better to remember the lesson Monadnock,
and Emerson has said, 'Zeus hates busy-bodies and people who do too much.'

That there are such folk, a long nasal drawl across Main Street attests. A farmer is unhitching
his horses from a post opposite a store. He stands with the tie-rope in his hand and gives
his opinion to his neighbour and the world generally--'But them there Andersons, they ain't
got no notion of etikwette!'

ACROSS A CONTINENT

It is not easy to escape from a big city. An entire continent was waiting to be traversed,
and, for that reason, we lingered in New York till the city felt so homelike that it seemed
wrong to leave it. And further, the more one studied it, the more grotesquely bad it grew--bad
in its paving, bad in its streets, bad in its street-police, and but for the kindness of the
tides would be worse than bad in its sanitary arrangements. No one as yet has approached the
management of New York in a proper spirit; that is to say, regarding it as the shiftless outcome
of squalid barbarism and reckless extravagance. No one is likely to do so, because reflections
on the long, narrow pig-trough are construed as malevolent attacks against the spirit and majesty
of the great American people, and lead to angry comparisons. Yet, if all the streets of London
were permanently up and all the lamps permanently down, this would not prevent the New York
streets taken in a lump from being first cousins to a Zanzibar foreshore, or kin to the approaches
of a Zulu kraal. Gullies, holes, ruts, cobbles-stones awry, kerbstones rising from two to six
inches above the level of the slatternly pavement; tram-lines from two to three inches above
street level; building materials scattered half across the street; lime, boards, cut stone,
and ash-barrels generally and generously everywhere; wheeled traffic taking its chances, dray
versus brougham, at cross roads; sway-backed poles whittled and unpainted; drunken lamp-posts
with twisted irons; and, lastly, a generous scatter of filth and more mixed stinks than the
winter wind can carry away, are matters which can be considered quite apart from the 'Spirit
of Democracy' or 'the future of this great and growing country.' In any other land, they would
be held to represent slovenliness, sordidness, and want of capacity. Here it is explained,
not once but many times, that they show the speed at which the city has grown and the enviable
indifference of her citizens to matters of detail. One of these days, you are told, everything
will be taken in hand and put straight. The unvirtuous rulers of the city will be swept away
by a cyclone, or a tornado, or something big and booming, of popular indignation; everybody
will unanimously elect the right men, who will justly earn the enormous salaries that are at
present being paid to inadequate aliens for road sweepings, and all will be well. At the same
time the lawlessness ingrained by governors among the governed during the last thirty, forty,
or it may be fifty years; the brutal levity of the public conscience in regard to public duty;
the toughening and suppling of public morals, and the reckless disregard for human life, bred
by impotent laws and fostered by familiarity with needless accidents and criminal neglect,
will miraculously disappear. If the laws of cause and effect that control even the freest people
in the world say otherwise, so much the worse for the laws. America makes her own. Behind her
stands the ghost of the most bloody war of the century caused in a peaceful land by long temporising
with lawlessness, by letting things slide, by shiftlessness and blind disregard for all save
the material need of the hour, till the hour long conceived and let alone stood up full-armed,
and men said, 'Here is an unforeseen crisis,' and killed each other in the name of God for
four years.

In a heathen land the three things that are supposed to be the pillars of moderately decent
government are regard for human life, justice, criminal and civil, as far as it lies in man
to do justice, and good roads. In this Christian city they think lightly of the first--their
own papers, their own speech, and their own actions prove it; buy and sell the second at a
price openly and without shame; and are, apparently, content to do without the third. One would
almost expect racial sense of humour would stay them from expecting only praise--slab, lavish,
and slavish--from the stranger within their gates. But they do not. If he holds his peace,
they forge tributes to their own excellence which they put into his mouth, thereby treating
their own land which they profess to honour as a quack treats his pills. If he speaks--but
you shall see for yourselves what happens then. And they cannot see that by untruth and invective
it is themselves alone that they injure.

The blame of their city evils is not altogether with the gentlemen, chiefly of foreign extraction,
who control the city. These find a people made to their hand--a lawless breed ready to wink
at one evasion of the law if they themselves may profit by another, and in their rare leisure
hours content to smile over the details of a clever fraud. Then, says the cultured American,
'Give us time. Give us time, and we shall arrive.' The otherwise American, who is aggressive,
straightway proceeds to thrust a piece of half-hanged municipal botch-work under the nose of
the alien as a sample of perfected effort. There is nothing more delightful than to sit for
a strictly limited time with a child who tells you what he means to do when he is a man; but
when that same child, loud-voiced, insistent, unblushingly eager for praise, but thin-skinned
as the most morbid of hobbledehoys, stands about all your ways telling you the same story in
the same voice, you begin to yearn for something made and finished--say Egypt and a completely
dead mummy. It is neither seemly nor safe to hint that the government of the largest city in
the States is a despotism of the alien by the alien for the alien, tempered with occasional
insurrections of the decent folk. Only the Chinaman washes the dirty linen of other lands.

St. Paul, Minnesota. Deep emotion, unspeakable, shook the boy's chest. The Dwarf put
his hand on his shoulder and left.

VI

The inheritance of Iñigo de la Hoz, Valle-Amblés, was located near the foot of the mountains,
a quarter of a mile west of Sonsoles. He composed at the beginning of a piece of Mount and
three hundred acres of land for planting, but due to the troubles of the Lord, had been eroding
rapidly until reduced to a thick and narrow strip of scrubland meadow in the end of which stood
the ruined farmhouse of the parents of Dona Brianda. La Jara the lavender and the vicious weed
had invaded the gardens existed. The roads only be guessed by the alignment of trees. On the
mountain was difficult to advance.

Nature dominion over many years of neglect, is now advocated to tangle with the fustazo, with the
spine.

Instead, from the high windows of the mansion would have established a seasoned Verjel Don Alonso,
where tanks are full, the trails clean and graciously trimmed privet and myrtle as in the gardens
of Italy.

Could be distinguished also envisioned by the famous parapets the gentleman, whose mosaics of
pebbles white, black and red contained fables Ovid. Some evenings up in the air pink water jets,
soaking falling the steps and foliage.

Ramiro aficionose soon to the free life he had in his possession. When he had completed thirteen,
Medrano, who used to stay with their daughter Casilda in the lower
blocks of the barn he showed in the nag of a laborer, all the basics
of horsemanship and the flange.

In addition, making himself a light spear with streamers and strings, he showed how to handle
it; and some nights, in the light of a candle, I exercised, by his
own shadow, to lower and raise the hand to the ear to learn to attack
boldly.

Medrano had, by his bedside, two swords: one, narrow and long for others to shed fitting, the
other to handle heavy gate and broad blade with two edges.

- This steel - he said, noting his fine sword squire - is young man does not know what that is sinking
in the flesh until the recazo, but aquesta - added, taking down with
a gesture of love his Joyosa a former soldier - has drawn more blood
than a barber, and more souls than a nun.

With him I poked guts over a bully, broken pate over an opponent and nearly severed, nicely, do
not know how a Turkish gullet!

Ramiro listened glare and a unique experience, to wield the sword himself, it seemed that his heart
was growing inside the chest.

Fencing lessons begin.

The squire palpábale their muscles early, and as forces that thrived Ibal mysterious teaching
these tricks to which he believed should good luck every soldier who came to old age.

Certain days during the hours of siesta, to escape the vigilance of Dona Guiomar, went out
both looking for a shady site of Mt. The child inhaled with delight the rustic smoke of the
fires that burned usually in the neighboring estate, and the sun and the perfume tornábanle
at first extremely sensitive.

Medrano, after sitting in the shade of a tree, stayed silent for a moment, no other movement
throughout her figure than red feather hat the breeze stirring. But little later, prompted by the
view of the valley, whose long clear light reminded him of the sea and quiet, put a powerful
referral capture ships or some daring landing the coast of Levante.

       Ramiro did not lose a single gesture, a single word of the narrator,
and, Currently, the passion to fight him so hard that hallucinating
came to believe himself, on the deck of the ship or between horses
and cutlasses of the infidels.

Other times, however, leaving him without hearing him speak and abstracting his mind, set its
great eyes on the walls of the city, whose shadow, towers and outlining reddish towards the opposite
side of the valley, where vast iron crown.

He dreamed then that he was called to cover a new day of Christian
honor, to be acclaimed by the first of all in the value and popularity.

*

* * * *

Some books of chivalry and one or two tried to bridle and
stirrups that surprised about the firm of his room, the mother did
understand what was happening in the mind your child.

Consult the case with his chaplain, an old Franciscan friar, who was both grammar teacher Ramiro,
and we were advised the remedies of the Church: prayer, penance, recollection.

The child was subjected to gentle, full of pious concern.

VII

It was one of those days of shame that does not escape heatwave, with
being so steep and windy, whole region of Castile.

A hot air was drowsy in the naves, and heaven without emboldens the dye clouds as the enamel in the
oven. The rock is reeling under the fury of the sun, the tree is roasted. Here and there along
the road, the herd or flock up large dust clouds, as if they were hosts.

Grim reflection on the mineral floated Amblés Valley. The scenery was even more severe under
that relentless clarity.

Began threshing. The harvest glittered in ages.

The peasants had to take turns without ceasing for a drink in the shade of the cars. Meanwhile,
rose lazily about the fork, others stiff as posts on the boards threshers
turned in a sorry beset with rage at the mules and oxen, and alighting
at each moment to make them sound jaws backs or with their clubs.

Ramiro, surfeited with religious readings, took the Adventures of
Silves de la Selva and went to hide in a dark nook of the mountain
that were three large boulders in the shade of an oak.

Lying on the ground with his fist on the temple, reading suspended at times, to feel better the
delight of hiding. Sometimes a light beam passing through the leaves and made wobble on the book
a medal in the sun. That shadow tasted the freshness Barroso water retained in the alcarrazas.

Suddenly
the sound of rapid footsteps made him raise his head. Miró. Medrano was running the shortcut towards
the village.

- Where are you going? - Gritole.

The squire said with a brief gesture to follow him.

Once at the stables of the barn, while searching his girdle, Medrano
was briefly happened.

In neighboring estate, Cerberus, the big dog that served as a guard at the gates, had become angry,
biting and escaping a lackey to the mountain.

Don Alonso was in Madrid and her daughter had stayed with the ladies, which sent him to call in
a hurry to lead to win in the hound hunting. Ramiro had a sudden glare. Donceles gentlemen
remembered the stories that headless dragons, monsters and fierce
lions, princesses redeeming, disrupting spells and curses.

       At the same time Beatriz's face crossed her mind.

When the squire was to stick the broad two-edged sword, he, without a word put both hands on
the pistol grip, looking with an expression at once pleading and determined. The old soldier understood.
Taking time for himself the finest sword he left the other in Ramiro power. Then, shouting: "Come
quickly, we hope," went on the block.

They arrived at the mansion of Don Alonso not find anyone.

House was all closed and deserted; but as she passed the basket met with six men armed with
pikes and forks.

The squire gave to the orders.

Everyone would climb by a distinct point of the mountain, and just
exchange the animal three strong voices would help.

       Ramiro Apostle landed a few steps kitchens, giving him a horn and
asking him not to move from the spot.

* * * * *

Somewhat later, tired of waiting, Ramiro began to penetrate well into
the trees.

Many stories, beyond the stately tower, had made him know what was
the danger of anger and fear that scattered through the towns and
countryside that he was crouching snout sowing anger and death.

It threw all the locks, was collected from cats, dogs, asses, and
while the women lit a candle to Santa Catalina and Santa Quiteria
lawyers against rabies, the boys would go out boldly, armed with the
tools sharp they were finding.

Ramiro moved quickly jumping rocks and old pruning herds.

The oaks and the thorns did not prevent the sun heated the earth with its pale rays and lean, and
a perfume retostado lavender, thyme steppe and perfumed the air. The flowers of broom arose
here and there among the rocks leaden, shining gold from its petals
over the sky of indigo.

       

Ramiro panting. Sweat bañábale face.

* * * * *

Half an hour later, one of the maids saw Beatrice entered the courtyard
of the house to her grandson Don Inigo bringing in one hand a broad
sword all red with blood and the other head dog.

- God bless me and
Santa Quiteria, and killed him! - Said the woman.

Then, looking intently at the bloody plunder, added:

- Poor Cerberus, and how I pushed his hands to his chest to lick on
the face!

But it was forced acaballo that rabid dog with his own work.

Medrano has been to exploit, for fixed!

- It was Medrano.

- Who?

- I was alone in the mountains, and passing it a bundle of firewood,
vile come running towards me.

Hícele a good knife roll like a bowling pin. Then Hachel neck.

- Our Lady and what will be when you grow barragán beard! - Said the woman, frightened certain young
man that he had killed the terrible animal without assistance.

He then asked her to follow him, but Ramiro, approaching a gate that opened onto the field,
supported a moment the sword on the wall, taking the horn played three times with force. The three
long notes reverberated in the echoes of the mountain with a are legendary.

* * * * *

The maid fuel driving a series of dark blocks.

Finally, arriving at a door ajar, Ramiro was a chorus of women who called plaintively to Santa Quiteria
and Santa Catalina. Entered. A ray of sun shone into the room after a timber ajar. What a scream
that erupted in the dark when the boy raised in the light beam the bloody head, dripping on
the carpet!

One of the ladies collapsed on his back, Faint sudden dam.

The woman accompanying joy Ramiro had the prowess of youth. Then, in the middle of embarrassed
silence, Beatriz came forward without hesitation.

A's owner yanked the skirt; but the daughter of Don Alonso, looking at those hands as early red for
courage, off a blue for decorating your curls, and turning to Ramiro,
she knotted it in the stiffness of the jacket with his trembling hands,
white as the moon.

VIII

Ramiro suddenly knew the rapture of first love.

Surpassed his dream life, and that sudden delirium was soon for him to color, rhythm, and
perfume of all creation.

His religious fervor and their hopes of glory hounds then as they lay at the feet of the new
passion. Beatriz's pale face, with big eyes and their long eyelashes as crying, we did possess now
on the page of his book of prayers on the hangings the bed, on the
same crucifix, which hoped their grief.

Fatuous and moody ghost as a volatile flame, and to which his heart melted with tenderness.

He began composing dirges and letrillas that could have provided for Our Lady, and long and conceptual
thought speeches addressed to his beloved, at the earliest opportunity.

Some night, turning off the light of his room, spent long hours looking
out the window.

Sometimes looking into the neighboring garden scented dipped in dark
and silent, others raised the face and eyes toward the heights.

Nothing exalted his passion for the magnificent mystery of the stars.

It seemed that his restless lights you spoke a language he does not sublime quite understand.
Imagined then leave this life time to be reborn Beatriz there in the unspeakable regions, and wander
alone with her, hoping that divine zephyr seems to shake the constellations.

For

       some days his brain became unhinged.

His complexion became pale as wax, and he was surprised by their ceaseless sighing and deep sorrow
that his chest, all pain of love and longing.

Some mornings he found himself on ballester pigeons along the fence that separated the two
estates. Meanwhile his eyes lurking next door. How then became intense fascination for him in
the morning freshness and between the songs of birds, those lattices that ajar made him think of
his beloved sleep!
One evening, an opening of branches, was passed to Beatrice, who
never took his eyes from the hedge. The young man was. The girl made
him, then, surreptitiously, a signal to follow further and, when he
thought he had eluded the vigilance of the owners, he entreated her
to pass her garden.

They greeted as a platform and he failed to babble
Ramiro only one of the ingenious concepts that he had ordered to say
it.

That game was repeated many times. Paseábanse linked fingers,
speaking barely looking, from time to time, in the eyes, unsmiling.
The maid took him to sites more lush and hidden. There they discovered
the nature of the butterfly, the bird, more often the insect, its
impure innocence. The magical desire throbbed, fluttered, chirping
before them, in the still soft and warm summer.

Ramiro always retained
the memory of certain moments when, walking with her in the green
path labyrinth, dared to pass his arm around the neck and throat to
take it lightly. On another occasion, Beatriz went up to an old swing
and began to sway violently, caught in a rapture of youth and happiness.
His laughter large, crazy, unexpected, flew as a swarm of blackbirds,
waking the echoes through the trees. The wind lifted her skirt in
an unforgettable way.

They spoke more and more tremulous and outside
themselves. That threw a futile thoughts. The, wrapping her in his
proud eyes, said she dreamed of owning as absolute owner this delicious
life. Beatrice was for him and his successful harvest, safe from harm.
However, one day they asked:

- Aina I wished he be my wife?

She
said:

- Tamañita I stay. What do you think that so early?

Canturri
then stood, looking up, and showing, apparently more willing to give
his cheek and his mouth there, that the madman espiritillo throbbing
in his head Rattlesnake which a pebble.

* * * * *

This happy state
did not last for Ramiro. As about three-quarters of a league, in the
direction Villatoro, lived during the summer, Magpie Blázquez de San
Vicente, with her two children males. The husband, Felipe de San Vicente,
Commissioner of the Inquisition and individual Council of orders,
spent most of the year in Madrid. The two young men were the scourge
of that corner of the mountain. Were always together and hated. Once
or twice a week came to visit her cousin Beatrice, coming on the road
as hell to all that gave their hacks, and followed, from afar, by
a schoolmaster rabidly Talon mule between the white dust. Summarised it came to a pronounced objection to having anything to do
with a land rotten before it was ripe, a land with seven million negroes as yet unwelded into
the population, their race-type unevolved, and rather more than crude notions on murder, marriage,
and honesty. 'We've picked up their ways of politics,' he said mournfully. 'That comes of living
next door to them; but I don't think we're anxious to mix up with their other messes. They
say they don't want us. They keep on saying it. There's a nigger on the fence somewhere, or
they wouldn't lie about it.'

'But does it follow that they are lying?'

'Sure. I've lived among 'em. They can't go straight. There's some dam' fraud at the back of it.'

From this belief he would not be shaken. He had lived among them--perhaps had been bested in
trade. Let them keep themselves and their manners and customs to their own side of the line,
he said.

This is very sad and chilling. It seemed quite otherwise in New York, where Canada was represented
as a ripe plum ready to fell into Uncle Sam's mouth when he should open it. The Canadian has
no special love for England--the Mother of Colonies has a wonderful gift for alienating the
affections of her own household by neglect--but, perhaps, he loves his own country. We ran
out of the snow through mile upon mile of snow-sheds, braced with twelve-inch beams, and planked
with two-inch planking. In one place a snow slide had caught just the edge of a shed and scooped
it away as a knife scoops cheese. High up the hills men had built diverting barriers to turn
the drifts, but the drifts had swept over everything, and lay five deep on the top of the sheds.
When we woke it was on the banks of the muddy Fraser River and the spring was hurrying to meet
us. The snow had gone; the pink blossoms of the wild currant were open, the budding alders
stood misty green against the blue black of the pines, the brambles on the burnt stumps were
in tenderest leaf, and every moss on every stone was this year's work, fresh from the hand
of the Maker. The land opened into clearings of soft black earth. At one station a hen had
laid an egg and was telling the world about it. The world answered with a breath of real spring--spring
that flooded the stuffy car and drove us out on the platform to snuff and sing and rejoice
and pluck squashy green marsh-flags and throw them at the colts, and shout at the wild duck
that rose from a jewel-green lakelet. God be thanked that in travel one can follow the year!
This, my spring, I lost last November in New Zealand. Now I shall hold her fast through Japan
and the summer into New Zealand again.

Here are the waters of the Pacific, and Vancouver (completely destitute of any decent defences)
grown out of all knowledge in the last three years. At the railway wharf, with never a gun
to protect her, lies the Empress of India--the Japan boat--and what more auspicious name could
you wish to find at the end of one of the strong chains of empire?

THE EDGE OF THE EAST

The mist was clearing off Yokohama harbour and a hundred junks had their sails hoisted for
the morning breeze, and the veiled horizon was stippled with square blurs of silver. An English
man-of-war showed blue-white on then haze, so new was the daylight, and all the water lay out
as smooth as the inside of an oyster shell. Two children in blue and white, their tanned limbs
pink in the fresh air, sculled a marvellous boat of lemon-hued wood, and that was our fairy
craft to the shore across the stillness and the mother o' pearl levels.

There are ways and ways of entering Japan. The best is to descend upon it from America and
the Pacific--from the barbarians and the deep sea. Coming from the East, the blaze of India
and the insolent tropical vegetation of Singapore dull the eye to half-colours and little tones.
It is at Bombay that the smell of All Asia boards the ship miles off shore, and holds the passenger's
nose till he is clear of Asia again. That is a violent, and aggressive smell, apt to prejudice
the stranger, but kin none the less to the gentle and insinuating flavour that stole across
the light airs of the daybreak when the fairy boat went to shore--a smell of very clean new
wood; split bamboo, wood-smoke, damp earth, and the things that people who are not white people
eat--a homelike and comforting smell. Then followed on shore the sound of an Eastern tongue,
that is beautiful or not as you happen to know it. The Western races have many languages, but
a crowd of Europeans heard through closed doors talk with the Western pitch and cadence. So
it is with the East. A line of jinrickshaw coolies sat in the sun discoursing to each other,
and it was as though they were welcoming a return in speech that the listener must know as
well as English. They talked and they talked, but the ghosts of familiar words would not grow
any clearer till presently the Smell came down the open streets again, saying that this was
the East where nothing matters, and trifles old as the Tower of Babel mattered less than nothing,
and that there were old acquaintances waiting at every corner beyond the township. Great is
the Smell of the East! Railways, telegraphs, docks, and gunboats cannot banish it, and it will
endure till the railways are dead. He who has not smelt that smell has never lived.

Three years ago Yokohama was sufficiently Europeanised in its shops to suit the worst and wickedest
taste. To-day it is still worse if you keep to the town limits. Ten steps beyond into the fields
all the civilisation stops exactly as it does in another land a few thousand miles further
West. The globe-trotting, millionaires anxious to spend money, with a hose on whatever caught
their libertine fancies, had explained to us aboard-ship that they came to Japan in haste,
advised by their guide-books to do so, lest the land should be suddenly civilised between steamer-sailing
and steamer-sailing. When they touched land they ran away to the curio shops to buy things
which are prepared for them--mauve and magenta and blue-vitriol things. By this time they have
a 'Murray' under one arm and an electric-blue eagle with a copperas beak and a yellow 'E pluribus
unum' embroidered on apple-green silk, under the other.

We, being wise, sit in a garden that is not ours, but belongs to a gentleman in slate-coloured
silk, who, solely for the sake of the picture, condescends to work as a gardener, in which
employ he is sweeping delicately a welt of fallen cherry blossoms from under an azalea aching
to burst into bloom. Steep stone steps, of the colour that nature ripens through long winters,
lead up to this garden by way of clumps of bamboo grass. You see the Smell was right when it
talked of meeting old friends. Half-a-dozen blue-black pines are standing akimbo against a
real sky--not a fog-blur nor a cloud-bank, nor a gray dish-clout wrapped round the sun--but
a blue sky. A cherry tree on a slope below them throws up a wave of blossom that breaks all
creamy white against their feet, and a clump of willows trail their palest green shoots in
front of all. The sun sends for an ambassador through the azalea bushes a lordly swallow-tailed
butterfly, and his squire very like the flitting 'chalk-blue' of the English downs. The warmth
of the East, that goes through, not over, the lazy body, is added to the light of the East--the
splendid lavish light that clears but does not bewilder the eye. Then the new leaves of the
spring wink like fat emeralds and the loaded branches of cherry-bloom grow transparent and
glow as a hand glows held up against flame. Little, warm sighs come up from the moist, warm
earth, and the fallen petals stir on the ground, turn over, and go to sleep again. Outside,
beyond the foliage, where the sunlight lies on the slate-coloured roofs, the ridged rice-fields
beyond the roofs, and the hills beyond the rice-fields, is all Japan--only all Japan; and this
that they call the old French Legation is the Garden of Eden that most naturally dropped down
here after the Fall. For some small hint of the beauties to be shown later there is the roof
of a temple, ridged and fluted with dark tiles, flung out casually beyond the corner of the
bluff on which the garden stands. Any other curve of the eaves would not have consorted with
the sweep of the pine branches; therefore, this curve was made, and being made, was perfect.
The congregation of the globe-trotters are in the hotel, scuffling for guides, in order that
they may be shown the sights of Japan, which is all one sight. They must go to Tokio, they
must go to Nikko; they must surely see all that is to be seen and then write home to their
barbarian families that they are getting used to the sight of bare, brown legs. Before this
day is ended, they will all, thank goodness, have splitting headaches and burnt-out eyes. It
is better to lie still and hear the grass grow--to soak in the heat and the smell and the sounds
and the sights that come unasked.

Our garden overhangs the harbour, and by pushing aside one branch we look down upon a heavy-sterned
fishing-boat, the straw-gold mats of the deck-house pushed back to show the perfect order and
propriety of the housekeeping that is going forward. The father-fisher, sitting frog-fashion,
is poking at a tiny box full of charcoal, and the light, white ash is blown back into the face
of a largish Japanese doll, price two shillings and threepence in Bayswater. The doll wakes,
turns into a Japanese baby something more valuable than money could buy--a baby with a shaven
head and aimless legs. It crawls to the thing in the polished brown box, is picked up just
as it is ready to eat live coals, and is set down behind a thwart, where it drums upon a bucket,
addressing the firebox from afar. Half-a-dozen cherry blossoms slide off a bough, and waver
down to the water close to the Japanese doll, who in another minute will be overside in pursuit
of these miracles. The father-fisher has it by the pink hind leg, and this time it is tucked
away, all but the top-knot, out of sight among umber nets and sepia cordage. Being an Oriental
it makes no protest, and the boat scuds out to join the little fleet in the offing.

Then two sailors of a man-of-war come along the sea face, lean over the canal below the garden,
spit, and roll away. The sailor in port is the only superior man. To him all matters rare and
curious are either 'them things' or 'them other things.' He does not hurry himself, he does
not seek Adjectives other than those which custom puts into his mouth for all occasions; but
the beauty of life penetrates his being insensibly till he gets drunk, falls foul of the local
policeman, smites him into the nearest canal, and disposes of the question of treaty revision
with a hiccup. All the same, Jack says that he has a grievance against the policeman, who is
paid a dollar for every strayed seaman he brings up to the Consular Courts for overstaying
his leave, and so forth. Jack says that the little fellows deliberately hinder him from getting
back to his ship, and then with devilish art and craft of wrestling tricks--'there are about
a hundred of 'em, and they can throw you with every qualified one'--carry him to justice. Now
when Jack is softened with drink he does not tell lies. This is his grievance, and he says
that them blanketed consuls ought to know. 'They plays into each other's hands, and stops you
at the Hatoba'--the policemen do. The visitor who is neither a seaman nor drunk, cannot swear
to the truth of this, or indeed anything else. He moves not only among fascinating scenes and
a lovely people but, as he is sure to find out before he has been a day ashore, between stormy
questions. Three years ago there were no questions that were not going to be settled off-hand
in a blaze of paper lanterns. The Constitution was new. It has a gray, pale cover with a chrysanthemum
at the back, and a Japanese told me then, 'Now we have Constitution same as other countries,
and so it is all right. Now we are quite civilised because of Constitution.'

[A perfectly irrelevant story comes to mind here. Do you know that in Madeira once they had
a revolution which lasted just long enough for the national poet to compose a national anthem,
and then was put down? All that is left of the revolt now is the song that you hear on the
twangling nachettes, the baby-banjoes, of a moonlight night under the banana fronds at the
back of Funchal. And the high-pitched nasal refrain of it is 'Consti-tuci-oun!']

Since that auspicious date it seems that the questions have impertinently come up, and the
first and the last of them is that of Treaty Revision. Says the Japanese Government, 'Only
obey our laws, our new laws that we have carefully compiled from all the wisdom of the West,
and you shall go up country as you please and trade where you will, instead of living cooped
up in concessions and being judged by consuls. Treat us as you would treat France or Germany,
and we will treat you as our own subjects.'

Here, as you know, the matter rests between the two thousand foreigners and the forty million
Japanese--a God-send to all editors of Tokio and Yokohama, and the despair of the newly arrived
in whose nose, remember, is the smell of the East, One and Indivisible, Immemorial, Eternal,
and, above all, Instructive.

Indeed, it is only by walking out at least half a mile that you escape from the aggressive
evidences of civilisation, and come out into the rice-fields at the back of the town. Here
men with twists of blue and white cloth round their heads are working knee deep in the thick
black mud. The largest field may be something less than two tablecloths, while the smallest
is, say, a speck of undercliff, on to which it were hard to back a 'rickshaw, wrested from
the beach and growing its clump of barley within spray-shot of the waves. The field paths are
the trodden tops of the irrigating cuts, and the main roads as wide as two perambulators abreast.
From the uplands--the beautiful uplands planted in exactly the proper places with pine and
maple--the ground comes down in terraced pocket on pocket of rich earth to the levels again,
and it would seem that every heavily-thatched farmhouse was chosen with special regard to the
view. If you look closely when the people go to work you will see that a household spreads
itself over plots, maybe, a quarter of a mile apart. A revenue map of a village shows that
this scatteration is apparently designed, but the reason is not given. One thing at least is
certain. The assessment of these patches can be no light piece of work--just the thing, in
fact, that would give employment to a large number of small and variegated Government officials,
any one of whom, assuming that he was of an Oriental cast of mind, might make the cultivator's
life interesting. I remember now--a second-time-seen place brings back things that were altogether
buried--seeing three years ago the pile of Government papers required in the case of one farm.
They were many and systematic, but the interesting thing about them was the amount of work
that they must have furnished to those who were neither cultivators nor Treasury officials.

If one knew Japanese, one could collogue with that gentleman in the straw-hat and the blue
loincloth who is chopping within a sixteenth of an inch of his naked toes with the father and
mother of all weed-spuds. His version of local taxation might be inaccurate, but it would sure
to be picturesque. Failing his evidence, be pleased to accept two or three things that may
or may not be facts of general application. They differ in a measure from statements in the
books. The present land-tax is nominally 2-1/2 per cent, payable in cash on a three, or as
some say a five, yearly settlement. But, according to certain officials, there has been no
settlement since 1875. Land lying fallow for a season pays the same tax as land in cultivation,
unless it is unproductive through flood or calamity (read earthquake here). The Government
tax is calculated on the capital value of the land, taking a measure of about 11,000 square
feet or a quarter of an acre as the unit.

Now, one of the ways of getting at the capital value of the land is to see what the railways
have paid for it. The very best rice land, taking the Japanese dollar at three shillings, is
about £65:10s per acre. Unirrigated land for vegetable growing is something over £9:12s., and
forest £2:11s. As these are railway rates, they may be fairly held to cover large areas. In
private sales the prices may reasonably be higher.

It is to be remembered that some of the very best rice land will bear two crops of rice in
the year. Most soil will bear two crops, the first being millet, rape, vegetables, and so on,
sown on dry soil and ripening at the end of May. Then the ground is at once prepared for the
wet crop, to be harvested in October or thereabouts. Land-tax is payable in two instalments.
Rice land pays between the 1st November and the middle of December and the 1st January and
the last of February. Other land pays between July and August and September and December. Let
us see what the average yield is. The gentleman in the sun-hat and the loin-cloth would shriek
at the figures, but they are approximately accurate. Rice naturally fluctuates a good deal,
but it may be taken in the rough at five Japanese dollars (fifteen shillings) per koku of 330
lbs. Wheat and maize of the first spring crop is worth about eleven shillings per koku. The
first crop gives nearly 1-3/4 koku per tau (the quarter acre unit of measurement aforesaid),
or eighteen shillings per quarter acre, or £3:12s. per acre. The rice crop at two koku or £1:10s.
the quarter acre gives £6 an acre. Total £9:12s. This is not altogether bad if you reflect
that the land in question is not the very best rice land, but ordinary No. 1, at £25:16s. per
acre, capital value.

A son has the right to inherit his father's land on the father's assessment, so long as its
term runs, or, when the term has expired, has a prior claim as against any one else. Part of
the taxes, it is said, lies by in the local prefecture's office as a reserve fund against inundations.
Yet, and this seems a little confusing, there are between five and seven other local, provincial,
and municipal taxes which can reasonably be applied to the same ends. No one of these taxes
exceeds a half of the land-tax, unless it be the local prefecture tax of 2-1/2 per cent.

In the old days the people were taxed, or perhaps squeezed would be the better word, to about
one-half of the produce of the land. There are those who may say that the present system is
not so advantageous as it looks. Beforetime, the farmers, it is true, paid heavily, but only,
on their nominal holdings. They could, and often did, hold more land than they were assessed
on. Today a rigid bureaucracy surveys every foot of their farms, and upon every foot they have
to pay. Somewhat similar complaints are made still by the simple peasantry of India, for if
there is one thing that the Oriental detests more than another, it is the damnable Western
vice of accuracy. That leads to doing things by rule. Still, by the look of those terraced
fields, where the water is led so cunningly from level to level, the Japanese cultivator must
enjoy at least one excitement. If the villages up the valley tamper with the water supply,
there must surely be excitement down the valley--argument, protest, and the breaking of heads.

The days of romance, therefore, are not all dead.

       *       *       *       *       *

This that follows happened on the coast twenty miles through the fields from Yokohama, at Kamakura,
that is to say, where the great bronze Buddha sits facing the sea to hear the centuries go
by. He has been described again and again--his majesty, his aloofness, and every one of his
dimensions, the smoky little shrine within him, and the plumed hill that makes the background
to his throne. For that reason he remains, as he remained from the beginning, beyond all hope
of description--as it might be, a visible god sitting in the garden of a world made new. They
sell photographs of him with tourists standing on his thumb nail, and, apparently, any brute
of any gender can scrawl his or its ignoble name over the inside of the massive bronze plates
that build him up. Think for a moment of the indignity and the insult! Imagine the ancient,
orderly gardens with their clipped trees, shorn turf, and silent ponds smoking in the mist
that the hot sun soaks up after rain, and the green-bronze image of the Teacher of the Law
wavering there as it half seems through incense clouds. The earth is all one censer, and myriads
of frogs are making the haze ring. It is too warm to do more than to sit on a stone and watch
the eyes that, having seen all things, see no more--the down-dropped eyes, the forward droop
of the head, and the colossal simplicity of the folds of the robe over arm and knee. Thus,
and in no other fashion, did Buddha sit in the-old days when Ananda asked questions and the
dreamer began to dream of the lives that lay behind him ere the lips moved, and as the Chronicles
say: 'He told a tale.' This would be the way he began, for dreamers in the East tell something
the same sort of tales to-day: 'Long ago when Devadatta was King of Benares, there lived a
virtuous elephant, a reprobate ox, and a King without understanding.' And the tale would end,
after the moral had been drawn for Ananda's benefit: 'Now, the reprobate ox was such an one,
and the King was such another, but the virtuous elephant was I, myself, Ananda.' Thus, then,
he told the tales in the bamboo grove, and the bamboo grove is there to-day. Little blue and
gray and slate robed figures pass under its shadow, buy two or three joss-sticks, disappear
into the shrine, that is, the body of the god, come out smiling, and drift away through the
shrubberies. A fat carp in a pond sucks at a fallen leaf with just the sound of a wicked little
worldly kiss. Then the earth steams, and steams in silence, and a gorgeous butterfly, full
six inches from wing to wing, cuts through the steam in a zigzag of colour and flickers up
to the forehead of the god. And Buddha said that a man must look on everything as illusion--even
light and colour--the time-worn bronze of metal against blue-green of pine and pale emerald
of bamboo--the lemon sash of the girl in the cinnamon dress, with coral pins in her hair, leaning
against a block of weather-bleached stone--and, last, the spray of blood-red azalea that stands
on the pale gold mats of the tea-house beneath the honey-coloured thatch. To overcome desire
and covetousness of mere gold, which is often very vilely designed, that is conceivable; but
why must a man give up the delight of the eye, colour that rejoices, light that cheers, and
line that satisfies the innermost deeps of the heart? Ah, if the Bodhisat had only seen his
own image!

OUR OVERSEAS MEN

All things considered, there are only two kinds of men in the world--those that stay at home
and those that do not. The second are the most interesting. Some day a man will bethink himself
and write a book about the breed in a book called 'The Book of the Overseas Club,' for it is
at the clubhouses all the way from Aden to Yokohama that the life of the Outside Men is best
seen and their talk is best heard. A strong family likeness runs through both buildings and
members, and a large and careless hospitality is the note. There is always the same open-doored,
high-ceiled house, with matting on the floors; the same come and go of dark-skinned servants,
and the same assembly of men talking horse or business, in raiment that would fatally scandalise
a London committee, among files of newspapers from a fortnight to five weeks old. The life
of the Outside Men includes plenty of sunshine, and as much air as may be stirring. At the
Cape, where the Dutch housewives distil and sell the very potent Vanderhum, and the absurd
home-made hansom cabs waddle up and down the yellow dust of Adderley Street, are the members
of the big import and export firms, the shipping and insurance offices, inventors of mines,
and exploiters of new territories with now and then an officer strayed from India to buy mules
for the Government, a Government House aide-de-camp, a sprinkling of the officers of the garrison,
tanned skippers of the Union and Castle Lines, and naval men from the squadron at Simon's Town.
Here they talk of the sins of Cecil Rhodes, the insolence of Natal, the beauties or otherwise
of the solid Boer vote, and the dates of the steamers. The argot is Dutch and Kaffir, and every
one can hum the national anthem that begins 'Pack your kit and trek, Johnny Bowlegs.' In the
stately Hongkong Clubhouse, which is to the further what the Bengal Club is to the nearer East,
you meet much the same gathering, minus the mining speculators and plus men whose talk is of
tea, silk, shortings, and Shanghai ponies. The speech of the Outside Men at this point becomes
fearfully mixed with pidgin-English and local Chinese terms, rounded with corrupt Portuguese.
At Melbourne, in a long verandah giving on a grass plot, where laughing-jackasses laugh very
horribly, sit wool-kings, premiers, and breeders of horses after their kind. The older men
talk of the days of the Eureka Stockade and the younger of 'shearing wars' in North Queensland,
while the traveller moves timidly among them wondering what under the world every third word
means. At Wellington, overlooking the harbour (all right-minded clubs should command the sea),
another, and yet a like, sort of men speak of sheep, the rabbits, the land-courts, and the
ancient heresies of Sir Julius Vogel; and their more expressive sentences borrow from the Maori.
And elsewhere, and elsewhere, and elsewhere among the Outside Men it is the same--the same
mixture of every trade, calling, and profession under the sun; the same clash of conflicting
interests touching the uttermost parts of the earth; the same intimate, and sometimes appalling
knowledge of your neighbour's business and shortcomings; the same large-palmed hospitality,
and the same interest on the part of the, younger men in the legs of a horse. Decidedly, it
is at the Overseas Club all the world over that you get to know some little of the life of
the community. London is egoistical, and the world for her ends with the four-mile cab radius.
There is no provincialism like the provincialism of London. That big slack-water coated with
the drift and rubbish of a thousand men's thoughts esteems itself the open sea because the
waves of all the oceans break on her borders. To those in her midst she is terribly imposing,
but they forget that there is more than one kind of imposition. Look back upon her from ten
thousand miles, when the mail is just in at the Overseas Club, and she is wondrous tiny. Nine-tenths
of her news--so vital, so epoch-making over there--loses its significance, and the rest is
as the scuffling of ghosts in a back-attic.

Here in Yokohama the Overseas Club has two mails and four sets of papers--English, French,
German, and American, as suits the variety of its constitution--and the verandah by the sea,
where the big telescope stands, is a perpetual feast of the Pentecost. The population of the
club changes with each steamer in harbour, for the sea-captains swing in, are met with 'Hello!
where did you come from?' and mix at the bar and billiard-tables for their appointed time and
go to sea again. The white-painted warships supply their contingent of members also, and there
are wonderful men, mines of most fascinating adventure, who have an interest in sealing-brigs
that go to the Kurile Islands, and somehow get into trouble with the Russian authorities. Consuls
and judges of the Consular Courts meet men over on leave from the China ports, or it may be
Manila, and they all talk tea, silk, banking, and exchange with its fixed residents. Everything
is always as bad as it can possibly be, and everybody is on the verge of ruin. That is why,
when they have decided that life is no longer worth living, they go down to the skittle-alley--to
commit suicide. From the outside, when a cool wind blows among the papers and there is a sound
of smashing ice in an inner apartment, and every third man is talking about the approaching
races, the life seems to be a desirable one. 'What more could a man need to make him happy?'
says the passer-by. A perfect climate, a lovely country, plenty of pleasant society, and the
politest people on earth to deal with. The resident smiles and invites the passer-by to stay
through July and August. Further, he presses him to do business with the politest people on
earth, and to continue so doing for a term of years. Thus the traveller perceives beyond doubt
that the resident is prejudiced by the very fact of his residence, and gives it as his matured
opinion that Japan is a faultless land, marred only by the presence of the foreign community.
And yet, let us consider. It is the foreign community that has made it possible for the traveller
to come and go from hotel to hotel, to get his passport for inland travel, to telegraph his
safe arrival to anxious friends, and generally enjoy himself much more than he would have been
able to do in his own country. Government and gunboats may open a land, but it is the men of
the Overseas Club that keep it open. Their reward (not alone in Japan) is the bland patronage
or the scarcely-veiled contempt of those who profit by their labours. It is hopeless to explain
to a traveller who has been 'ohayoed' into half-a-dozen shops and 'sayonaraed' out of half-a-dozen
more and politely cheated in each one, that the Japanese is an Oriental, and, therefore, embarrassingly
economical of the truth. 'That's his politeness,' says the traveller. 'He does not wish to
hurt your feelings. Love him and treat him like a brother, and he'll change.' To treat one
of the most secretive of races on a brotherly basis is not very easy, and the natural politeness
that enters into a signed and sealed contract and undulates out of it so soon as it does not
sufficiently pay is more than embarrassing. It is almost annoying. The want of fixity or commercial
honour may be due to some natural infirmity of the artistic temperament, or to the manner in
which the climate has affected, and his ruler has ruled, the man himself for untold centuries.

Those who know the East know, where the system of 'squeeze,' which is commission, runs through
every transaction of life, from the sale of a groom's place upward, where the woman walks behind
the man in the streets, and where the peasant gives you for the distance to the next town as
many or as few miles as he thinks you will like, that these things must be so. Those who do
not know will not be persuaded till they have lived there. The Overseas Club puts up its collective
nose scornfully when it hears of the New and Regenerate Japan sprung to life since the 'seventies.
It grins, with shame be it written, at an Imperial Diet modelled on the German plan and a Code
Napoléon à la Japonaise. It is so far behind the New Era as to doubt that an Oriental country,
ridden by etiquette of the sternest, and social distinctions almost as hard as those of caste,
can be turned out to Western gauge in the compass of a very young man's fife. And it must be
prejudiced, because it is daily and hourly in contact with the Japanese, except when it can
do business with the Chinaman whom it prefers. Was there ever so disgraceful a club!

Just at present, a crisis, full blown as a chrysanthemum, has developed in the Imperial Diet.
Both Houses accuse the Government of improper interference--this Japanese for 'plenty stick
and some bank-note'--at the recent elections. They then did what was equivalent to passing
a vote of censure on the Ministry and refusing to vote government measures. So far the wildest
advocate of representative government could have desired nothing better. Afterwards, things
took a distinctly Oriental turn. The Ministry refused to resign, and the Mikado prorogued the
Diet for a week to think things over. The Japanese papers are now at issue over the event.
Some say that representative government implies party government, and others swear at large.
The Overseas Club says for the most part--'Skittles!'

It is a picturesque situation--one that suggests romances and extravaganzas. Thus, imagine
a dreaming Court intrenched behind a triple line of moats where the lotus blooms in summer--a
Court whose outer fringe is aggressively European, but whose heart is Japan of long ago, where
a dreaming King sits among some wives or other things, amused from time to time with magic-lantern
shows and performing fleas--a holy King whose sanctity is used to conjure with, and who twice
a year gives garden-parties where every one must come in top-hat and frock coat. Round this
Court, wavering between the splendours of the sleeping and the variety shows of the Crystal
Palace, place in furious but carefully-veiled antagonism the fragments of newly shattered castes,
their natural Oriental eccentricities overlaid with borrowed Western notions. Imagine now,
a large and hungry bureaucracy, French in its fretful insistence on detail where detail is
of no earthly moment, Oriental in its stress on etiquette and punctillo, recruited from a military
caste accustomed for ages past to despise alike farmer and trader. This caste, we will suppose,
is more or less imperfectly controlled by a syndicate of three clans, which supply their own
nominees to the Ministry. These are adroit, versatile, and unscrupulous men, hampered by no
western prejudice in favour of carrying any plan to completion. Through and at the bidding
of these men, the holy Monarch acts; and the acts are wonderful. To criticise these acts exists
a wild-cat Press, liable to suppression at any moment, as morbidly sensitive to outside criticism
as the American, and almost as childishly untruthful, fungoid in the swiftness of its growth,
and pitiable in its unseasoned rashness. Backers of this press in its wilder moments, lawless,
ignorant, sensitive and vain, are the student class, educated in the main at Government expense,
and a thorn in the side of the State. Judges without training handle laws without precedents,
and new measures are passed and abandoned with almost inconceivable levity. Out of the welter
of classes and interests that are not those of the common folk is evolved the thing called
Japanese policy that has the proportion and the perspective of a Japanese picture.

Finality and stability are absent from its councils. To-day, for reasons none can explain,
it is pro-foreign to the verge of servility. To-morrow, for reasons equally obscure, the pendulum
swings back, and--the students are heaving mud at the foreigners in the streets. Vexatious,
irresponsible, incoherent, and, above all, cheaply mysterious, is the rule of the land--stultified
by intrigue and counter-intrigue, chequered with futile reforms begun on European lines and
light-heartedly thrown aside; studded, as a bower-bird's run is studded with shells and shining
pebbles, with plagiarisms from half the world--an operetta of administration, wherein the shadow
of the King among his wives, Samurai policemen, doctors who have studied under Pasteur, kid-gloved
cavalry officers from St. Cyr, judges with University degrees, harlots with fiddles, newspaper
correspondents, masters of the ancient ceremonies of the land, paid members of the Diet, secret
societies that borrow the knife and the dynamite of the Irish, sons of dispossessed Daimios
returned from Europe and waiting for what may turn up, with ministers of the syndicate who
have wrenched Japan from her repose of twenty years ago, circle, flicker, shift, and reform,
in bewildering rings, round the foreign resident. Is the extravaganza complete?

Somewhere in the background of the stage are the people of the land--of whom a very limited
proportion enjoy the privileges of representative government. Whether in the past few years
they have learned what the thing means, or, learning, have the least intention of making any
use of it, is not clear. Meantime, the game of government goes forward as merrily as a game
of puss-in-the-corner, with the additional joy that not more than half-a-dozen men know who
is controlling it or what in the wide world it intends to do. In Tokio live the steadily-diminishing
staff of Europeans employed by the Emperor as engineers, railway experts, professors in the
colleges and so forth. Before many years they will all be dispensed with, and the country will
set forth among the nations alone and on its own responsibility.

In fifty years then, from the time that the intrusive American first broke her peace, Japan
will experience her new birth and, reorganised from sandal to top-knot, play the samisen in
the march of modern progress. This is the great advantage of being born into the New Era, when
individual and community alike can get something for nothing--pay without work, education without
effort, religion' without thought, and free government without slow and bitter toil.

The Overseas Club, as has been said, is behind the spirit of the age. It has to work for what
it gets, and it does not always get what it works for. Nor can its members take ship and go
home when they please. Imagine for a little, the contented frame of mind that is bred in a
man by the perpetual contemplation of a harbour full of steamers as a Piccadilly cab-rank of
hansoms. The weather is hot, we will suppose; something has gone wrong with his work that day,
or his children are not looking so well as might be. Pretty tiled bungalows, bowered in roses
and wistaria, do not console him, and the voices of the politest people on earth jar sorely.
He knows every soul in the club, has thoroughly talked out every subject of interest, and would
give half a year's--oh, five years'--pay for one lung-filling breath of air that has life in
it, one sniff of the haying grass, or half a mile of muddy London street where the muffin bell
tinkles in the four o'clock fog. Then the big liner moves out across the staring blue of the
bay. So-and-so and such-an-one, both friends, are going home in her, and some one else goes
next week by the French mail. He, and he alone, it seems to him, must stay on; and it is so
maddeningly easy to go--for every one save himself. The boat's smoke dies out along the horizon,
and he is left alone with the warm wind and the white dust of the Bund. Now Japan is a good
place, a place that men swear by and live in for thirty years at a stretch. There are China
ports a week's sail to the westward where life is really hard, and where the sight of the restless
shipping hurts very much indeed. Tourists and you who travel the world over, be very gentle
to the men of the Overseas Clubs. Remember that, unlike yourselves, they have not come here
for the good of their health, and that the return ticket in your wallet may possibly colour
your views of their land. Perhaps it would not be altogether wise on the strength of much kindness
from Japanese officials to recommend that these your countrymen be handed over lock, stock,
and barrel to a people that are beginning to experiment with fresh-drafted half-grafted codes
which do not include juries, to a system that does not contemplate a free Press, to a suspicious
absolutism from which there is no appeal. Truly, it might be interesting, but as surely it
would begin in farce and end in tragedy, that would leave the politest people on earth in no
case to play at civilised government for a long time to come. In his concession, where he is
an apologetic and much sat-upon importation, the foreign resident does no harm. He does not
always sue for money due to him on the part of a Japanese. Once outside those limits, free
to move into the heart of the country, it would only be a question of time as to where and
when the trouble would begin. And in the long run it would not be the foreign resident that
would suffer. The imaginative eye can see the most unpleasant possibilities, from a general
overrunning of Japan by the Chinaman, who is far the most important foreign resident, to the
shelling of Tokio by a joyous and bounding Democracy, anxious to vindicate her national honour
and to learn how her newly-made navy works.

But there are scores of arguments that would confute and overwhelm this somewhat gloomy view.
The statistics of Japan, for instance, are as beautiful and fit as neatly as the woodwork of
her houses. By these it would be possible to prove anything.

SOME EARTHQUAKES

A Radical Member of Parliament at Tokio has just got into trouble with his constituents, and
they have sent him a priceless letter of reproof. Among other things they point out that a
politician should not be 'a waterweed which wobbles hither and thither according to the motion
of the stream.' Nor should he 'like a ghost without legs drift along before the wind.' 'Your
conduct,' they say, 'has been both of a waterweed and a ghost, and we purpose in a little time
to give you proof of our true Japanese spirit.' That member will very likely be mobbed in his
'rickshaw and prodded to inconvenience with sword-sticks; for the constituencies are most enlightened.
But how in the world can a man under these sides behave except as a waterweed and a ghost?
It is in the air--the wobble and the legless drift An energetic tourist would have gone to
Hakodate, seen Ainos at Sapporo, ridden across the northern island under the gigantic thistles,
caught salmon, looked in at Vladivostock, and done half a hundred things in the time that one
lazy loafer has wasted watching the barley turn from green to gold, the azaleas blossom and
burn out, and the spring give way to the warm rains of summer. Now the iris has taken up the
blazonry of the year, and the tide of the tourists ebbs westward.

The permanent residents are beginning to talk of hill places to go to for the hot weather,
and all the available houses in the resort are let. In a little while the men from China will
be coming over for their holidays, but just at present we are in the thick of the tea season,
and there is no time to waste on frivolities. 'Packing' is a valid excuse for anything, from
forgetting a dinner to declining a tennis party, and the tempers of husbands are judged leniently.
All along the sea face is an inspiring smell of the finest new-mown hay, and canals are full
of boats loaded up with the boxes jostling down to the harbour. At the club men say rude things
about the arrivals of the mail. There never was a post-office yet that did not rejoice in knocking
a man's Sabbath into flinders. A fair office day's work may begin at eight and end at six,
or, if the mail comes in, at midnight. There is no overtime or eight-hours' baby-talk in tea.
Yonder are the ships; here is the stuff, and behind all is the American market. The rest is
your own affair.

The narrow streets are blocked with the wains bringing down, in boxes of every shape and size,
the up-country rough leaf. Some one must take delivery of these things, find room for them
in the packed warehouse, and sample them before they are blended and go to the firing.

More than half the elaborate processes are 'lost work' so far as the quality of the stuff goes;
but the markets insist on a good-looking leaf, with polish, face and curl to it, and in this,
as in other businesses, the call of the markets is the law. The factory floors are made slippery
with the tread of bare-footed coolies, who shout as the tea whirls through its transformations.
The over-note to the clamour--an uncanny thing too--is the soft rustle-down of the tea itself--stacked
in heaps, carried in baskets, dumped through chutes, rising and falling in the long troughs
where it is polished, and disappearing at last into the heart of the firing-machine--always
this insistent whisper of moving dead leaves. Steam-sieves sift it into grades, with jarrings
and thumpings that make the floor quiver, and the thunder of steam-gear is always at its heels;
but it continues to mutter unabashed till it is riddled down into the big, foil-lined boxes
and lies at peace.

A few days ago the industry suffered a check which, lasting not more than two minutes, lost
several hundred pounds of hand-fired tea. It was something after this way. Into the stillness
of a hot, stuffy morning came an unpleasant noise as of batteries of artillery charging up
all the roads together, and at least one bewildered sleeper waking saw his empty boots where
they 'sat and played toccatas stately at the clavicord.' It was the washstand really but the
effect was awful. Then a clock fell and a wall cracked, and heavy hands caught the house by
the roof-pole and shook it furiously. To preserve an equal mind when things are hard is good,
but he who has not fumbled desperately at bolted jalousies that will not open while a whole
room is being tossed in a blanket does not know how hard it is to find any sort of mind at
all. The end of the terror was inadequate--a rush into the still, heavy outside air, only to
find the' servants in the garden giggling (the Japanese would giggle through the Day of Judgment)
and to learn that the earthquake was over. Then came the news, swift borne from the business
quarters below the hill, that the coolies of certain factories had fled shrieking at the first
shock, and that all the tea in the pans was burned to a crisp. That, certainly, was some consolation
for undignified panic; and there remained the hope that a few tall chimneys up the line at
Tokio would have collapsed. They stood firm, however, and the local papers, used to this kind
of thing, merely spoke of the shock as 'severe.' Earthquakes are demoralising; but they bring
out all the weaknesses of human nature. First is downright dread; the stage of--'only let me
get into the open and I'll reform,' then the impulse to send news of the most terrible shock
of modern times flying east and west among the cables. (Did not your own hair stand straight
on end, and, therefore, must not everybody else's have done likewise?) Last, as fallen humanity
picks itself together, comes the cry of the mean little soul: 'What! Was that all? I wasn't
frightened from the beginning.'

It is wholesome and tonic to realise the powerlessness of man in the face of these little accidents.
The heir of all the ages, the annihilator of time and space, who politely doubts the existence
of his Maker, hears the roof-beams crack and strain above him, and scuttles about like a rabbit
in a stoppered warren. 

The next day, Tuesday, a day of rain and gloom, Augustine spent the morning walking around in
his office. Expected a visit of interest no doubt, but he received was to Rosalia very nice weekend,
well renovated, very fresh and fantastic as well as when he went to theater.

"You're not good - he said with affectionate candor -. I understand, because these things are impressive,
I think you serenarte and try to give everything to oblivion ... A man like you ...! Yes, you will
find women in their thousands ... and a thousand times more beautiful, a thousand times more
interesting ... So what? Have you been? I presume not, because I sent word to his house and is
not there and nobody knows his whereabouts. Te I swear that's a shame because ... Poor thing!
If after all not bad background.

Among these unfortunate, there are excellent natural and even hints of dignity. What is waiting
appearances no one will win this. "

As he did not answer anything, he seemed more attentive to the flowers of the carpet to said
her cousin, this was to give another address to his affection.

"I repeat that you are not good.

You verdigris color ... To see the pulse? Burning ... Rest son, rest is good for you. Not receive
one, do not talk, do not write. Lie on the couch and wrap the rug. I'll take care, for your health
as well I can leave all my obligations.

I do drink, I'll be here all day, and if you get really bad, I'll stay all night also. "

Augustine rejected the idea of ​​illness.

Between one and another pause, slid Rosalia tips warnings and full of sweetness and friendship
... "Do not take it so hard ... If you had consulted time with me ... It is best to go to bed
... 're cold. "

Later, much later, Augustine, playing without reservation as spontaneous
and natural in his soul existed, let's say these solemn words:

"That
woman has me stuck in the heart, and I can not get started."

Upon hearing this, Rosalie took his abode in cashmere and body. It was hot. To comfort his
cousin threw strings of sentences, full of loving and thoughtful
expressions.

Amid of them came up Doña Marcelina Polo, the only person who could
provide damning news the fact, as having written testimony.

"Where do you live that lady?" - Told Knight with momentum -.

Right now I go there.

- It's too late. By God, do not get well.

You look like a character in a novel.

That lady and living with her to bed when the chickens. Tomorrow you can go but not early, because
since the dawn of the three to leave the church. It is best if you send a message to Philip
to set your time.

Entered D. Francisco, who came from their walk.

"What ?...».

- I tell him to get into bed and not want to listen to me.

- Bet
that's it slander? - Thiers said kindly.

Augustine begged them to stay for lunch, which they gladly accepted. Centeno was Costanilla
to tell Prudence (aka Calamity) to give food to the children, because parents would not return
home until late.

XXXVI

Wednesday! ... A worthy successor to the previous day, was all damp
and gloom, the sky crying, the land turned into dirty lake and thick.

You'd think that a large mass of gray chocolate had spilled on the streets. The umbrella flocks
were moving along the sidewalks, cediéndose step with difficulty and covering poor people.
Spouts jets playing drum beats on them, and it lunged at each other, they pecked, scratched. Hats could
be seen like springs, and faces like those of newts and nymphs Marble played the wettest of roles in public
sources.

Augustine looked at this behind the glass of the balcony of his room, and the sound of that
sadness time itself was sung without music this elegy:

"Why did not you stay in Brownsville, gross? Who bade thee meddle in civilization? And you see ...
to the first change since you've been cheated.

You all play as a boy or a savage. When distrust, you're wrong. When you think you are wrong
too. This world is not for you. Your world is the Rio Grande del Norte and the Sierra Madre;
your company the Indian mobs of adventurers brave and ferocious socialize your revolver, your
ideal the money. Who do you get into these wanderings?

Some of fas nefas and others all laugh at you and bamboozle you and exploit you. "

- Lord - Felipe said entering the room -. Doña Marcelina is in the church. Another lady who
lives with her, and whom I know, I am told that you can go to twelve.

D. Francisco soon appeared with a smiling face and wet Carriker. His wife was busy with dance
clothing, and could not come until after noon.

Spoke after so much disturbed the Indian, and Thiers brought out
as a mitigating and conciliatory he suggested his goodness.

It was all slander, and Augustine had better not metiese more inquiries.

Much was saddened that his cousin told him: "One of two things: either I go back to Brownsville,
or me montera put the world. "

They lunched together, and before lunch concluded, Bringas rose from the table impatient eagerness.
He had an idea, and hastened to perform it, confident in the safety
of success.

He left hurriedly to go where we know.

While Rosalie was not claimed that Amparito at home, he might be
back now.

Maybe the neighbors knew the whereabouts of the two sisters. Forward, noble heart, and fear
not.

Knight came later, and by the nuns, the Postigo, Hita Street, the
alley Dog, etc ... went to the streets of the Star.

It is easy to assume that was a humorous thousand demons and did not know to choose between
doubt and certainty of his misfortune.

That such Doña Marcelina, what breed of bird would be?

This is thought to climb the ladder of the house that, older than speak evil. Called, and a maid
told the lady had not come yet, but that does not take even five minutes. We went to the room, and when
a lady was waiting there presentósele very singular appearance, white, fine, clean and airy,
an elderly woman who looked like a kitten with two emeralds for eyes, and walked with feet of
wool without the steps you feel.

"Sir - you said that looking at him sweetly human relic - are you
by chance del Toboso?

".

- No, ma'am - he said - and I am not of Toboso of La Mancha.

- Ah, excuse me ...

And slipped away, looking askance at the light
spots of mud that the visitor had left on the mat.

Augustine noticed the room, which contained about seven comfortably and other furniture anticuadísimos,
but very well preserved, four crucifixes, two children and work of
Jesus four dozen films saints, with branches of evergreens, bows and
ribbons.

There soon came a semblance of mahogany carving behind a black veil.

"Are you Mr. Knight?".

- At your service ... I wanted ...

Doña Marcelina Augustine was passed immediately to a cabinet. After seeing the room seemed
that there was no more comfortable in the world. However, in that cabinet had three. A brazier
was very hot fire to the abandoned piece. The visitor and sat on Pole armchairs.

"Did you see what day?" - Said the lady, lifting her veil and publishing the bas-relief of
your face, Christian had not understood it.

- Yes, ma'am, very bad day ... Then I come to beg you to kindly give me news ...

- I know, I know - replied sternly Polo -. Can I ask you reports, background that unhappy? If
you will permit me, I will keep the greatest secrecy, it is not in
my early carry this story and deal with actions of others.

I, though I be wrong to say it, no I usually hurt even my worst enemies ... It is no praise, but
many who I have hated me full of benefits ...

- In the present case - Caballero said eagerly - you can make an exception for me, telling me
...

- High there - the austere lady interrupted.

I do not count anything, I know nothing, I have not seen nothing, absolutely nothing. What
someone comes and tells me that Amparo is a saint?

I quiet. What you come and tell me that he wants to marry her? I
quiet.

Shut up and shut up is my subject.

Today I got to God, and if he had enough strength to keep to my guns, this just give to me.

- But sir, for the love of God - Augustine said, to the fullest confession -. The truth is before
everything.

- Just some truths are not for those ... Do not ask me anything ...
my mouth is a snap ... Only I tell you, and this not because you might
be interested, but my own satisfaction, that my brother was saved,
my brother is already on its way to Marseille where released within
three days for the Philippines, my brother has a bad back, and there
in those wild lands of my brother will come to herself.

Do you know where is the island of Zamboanga?

Because I have told you, it also comes Carib land. For there, in that blissful Zamboanga my brother
landed within two months, and there will the opportunity to christen heretics and make great
achievements.

This is not to say that I absolutely trust in your salvation, since the goat as its spots, the vicious
strip ever ... to the shooting. Oh, what efforts we had to make last minute! Had you seen ...! What
hombrazo! At the station told us that there will be a cassock Nebuchadnezzar. That is what you
want as long as not return to their old ways, or appear more here ... And do not think you ...
I have a scare ...! It I figure that of Barcelona or Marseilles we returned to Madrid and I
go through the door at least we wait ... You do not know him well.

And you're supposed to lie the natural evil; as if they had not haunted, if they had not sucked
the brains, another rooster will sing.

In a state of annoyance and irritation indescribable, Knight had to restrain not make a blunder.
The truth, he felt like giving him a couple of slaps.

"Ah, - said the timber - do you know that she is not dead Celedonia poor? We took the hospital
the day after the scandal ... And even tell you another thing, I did not see nothing, I know
nothing. "

- Madam, I do not know who Caledonia, nor do I care. Come to mine. I know, I know you has two
letters ...

His irritation led him to dispense with all courtesy and sensitivity. Raised the question in rude
terms, saying:

"I need you to give me these two letters. I buy them, you hear it well, buy them. You say. "

- Oh, I do not remember that - Marcelina said, addressing one of the
comfortable.

- Shopping - Agustín repeated, tasting the bitterness
of his curiosity satisfied.

The Polo stirred a time when the top drawer. Her back was to Knight, a fairly distance. Augustine
felt rustling of papers. After a pause, the voice of Marcelina and said:

"For you must know that there's nothing here, nothing of what you want ... Touch you to another
door, here does not commit the reputation of any person, good or bad. If any rengloncillo appears
in these caches, I will follow the advice of Father Nones, who told me: 'O deliver its owner or
the flames, 'and I ...».

He turned in front of Knight with his hands behind his back.

"Nothing, sir, nothing. I keep to my guns.

I do not harm anyone or my major enemies. Before I die to stop sending me accomplish what D.
Juan Manuel, and as I have not to see the interest, and I have no
desire to do so, you attend ...».

With quick movement uncovered the brazier and threw it in his hand what he had. Knight ran to
save from the fire that threw that devilish female, but came too late. Embers were alive,
and the curious saw nothing but a paper twisted and curled thin lifting call ... Nothing but a
name he read was the signing and said: Torment. With the final or linking a garabatito ... Yes,
it was his garabatito, his person autographed in that trait looked like a curly hair.

Angry and unable to save the forms imposed upon him a good education, because he was man belonging
to nature more than the Company, which stood as something borrowed, faced the wooden effigy,
and said in the most brutal.

"I was annoyed you ... Left you with God or the Devil, who is now
in the body, and I rejoice that soon burst ...».

Escaped left, furious ... Took the direction of his house, but had
not gone twenty yards when had an inspiration, a true celestial lightning
entered his mind.

The street of Beatas was very close ... Secret instinct told him
that there could be burning disease of your questions better remedy
than elsewhere.

"Who knows - he thought his spirit gorge from confusion to another - when all I cheat and
have fun with me, she can be it tells me the truth ... Wow, that
if we leave now that he is innocent ... But where is he?, Why is he
hiding?

... I will hide it so you will not see ... Damn my blindness, my
inexperience in the world!

... Rosalia deceiving me, deceiving me and all my friends play with
this poor man, who understands riddles ... Who can tell me the truth?

... What voice hear the ringing in my soul?, "which says: kill it, or that says forgive her? Gross,
unlucky wild, you should not be out of your forests, Jurate says
yes you the truth, forgive ... Yes, the spare ... I feel like to forgive
her, Mrs. Company ... If he is guilty and is sorry, forgive her, Mrs.
Company as hell, and I pass to you by the nose.

"

"Miss Amparo - told the concierge - has gone half an hour ago with
a gentleman ...».

- With a gentleman?

- Yes, glasses ... tiny, with
a color of dried figs Carriker.

- Ah, my cousin ... Abur ...

It
seems that the devil did.

I had never walked the streets in such a hurry, and never had so
many embarrassments.

The umbrella is latching every moment with people coming in the opposite direction. You believe
that they wanted to bite and throw each other the The flooded water. Then, he kept finding
people known to each moment I stopped to ask about his health and say, "Have you seen how long?".
Reached think that had gathered on his way to mortify. And for this, Lord, had it was a commitment
that limited the number of your friends!

'D. Augustine, weather!

Tomorrow is new moon and may change "- said in the alley Dog a dependent
of Trujillo.

- Abur, Abur ...

Finally got home ... By opening the
door, said to Philip:

"Miss Amparo awaits you ...».

And he, hearing this, shook with shock and grief, curiosity and fear
of satisfying ... What would she face?, What would you say?

"And my cousin Bringas, is too?".

- No, sir, the lady came alone.

Knight went through the rooms. The first was not in the second either. What surprised him most
was hearing the tune of the birds.

But at the moment to put his foot in the second cabinet, the music suddenly stopped. Had run
the string. Silence suspended following the gig was so respectful and mournful, that Augustine
was afraid ... Well there was not. He saw a glass on the table, a bottle. Then our illustrious
friend up with some trepidation the curtain of the bedroom and saw
a foot ... Frightened stopped looking better, because the balcony
of the bedroom was closed and there was very little light ... He saw
a black skirt ... hanging arm, hand touching the ground ... a pink
ear ... a scarf covering face ... He approached the horrible suspicion
that there were no signs of life that body; so still was ... Looked
closely ... Touched, called ... Yes, living ... breathing work as
if suffering from a strong grief.

The eyes were closed, dry ...

Leaving the cabinet again, Knight
saw the recipe ... He read briefly ran out ... Felipe came to meet
in the classroom ...

"To call a doctor - said the master -.

Say, Miss came alone?, Did you take ...?». dresses

- A medicine, yes sir. He sent me to bring it to the pharmacy.

- You! ... Doomed! - Augustine said attacking the servant with such fury, that thought reached the
end of his days.

- Mr Philip ...-- stammered crying - I did the medicine ...
- What? ... dog ... murderer.

- Do not worry ... The pharmacist
told me it was poison, and then I ... Oh, do not hit me! ... I came
home, took an empty bottle, filled it with tap water ... and burst
water ...

- What banished, executioner?

- It took a little tincture
of guaiac ... brought the Doña Marta when I ached molars.

- Call
Dona Marta ... Not notify the doctor yet.

Knight returned to the
cabinet. On the table was also a letter. Breaking the envelope, read
these crooked letters written in pencil: Everything is true. I do
not deserve forgiveness, but pity. Then I had the name of Amparo,
and after the o, garabatito ... Infamous garabatito! ... She ran to
her, because he felt moan ... The wild-eyed suicide Miron and began
saying a word, very inconsistent and without any sense.

"This is
madness ... attack to the head "- said Dona Marta, who had come hurrying
...

- To call a doctor, no, no, not to call. Wait, wait ...

He returned
to the cabinet. Or the man was insane or lacked very little.

- Dona
Marta.

- Lord ...

- What do we do?

- This is serious. He says it
is nonsense and an ember in the head ...

- Take her home ... take
her home immediately, at his house - pulling Knight said of the confusion
a clear purpose -. Take charge you, Dona Marta, that goes well, and
leave you with it. You, Philip, you bring a car, but a decent car,
a good car ... No, better will you bring the first to find ... Dona
Marta, take care you take, and take care that nothing is missing ...
Then, Felipe, alert the doctor, a good doctor, are you?, And say going
there, home ... Arropármela, say, bun ... That is not cool ... Soon;
the accoutrement ... That will not be anything.

Under these orders,
looked even from the cabinet, though pitiful beautiful picture: the
foot discovered, the hanging arm, the pale oval face, the mouth half
open ... Oh, sweet clothes ...! With broken heart my man locked himself
in his office ... If you do not cry was because I could, which did
not lack desire.

XXXVII

Four days later, according to insurance
data, supplied by the diligent observation of Rye, was D. Agustin
Caballero in the self and a convalescent state of severe disease.
Its wrong color and allowances announced insomnia, bad temper and
mood disorder, a manifestation perhaps liver, complicated with melancholy
or depressive feelings. And it is noteworthy that had seldom been
our good friend so talkative, only speaking great things they are
said to himself. The cast of this comedy Tell them performed a monologue
or parliament Long, who had been shot four days before, and had overtones
of conclusion, so that if that monologue was heard, the public would
be, as it were, throwing stones. By repetition febrile ideas and concepts
that soliloquy was unworthy of reproduction. The children carried
lanterns in the shape of small red paper fish bobbing at the end of slivers of bamboo, and
these drifted through the crowd like a strayed constellation of baby stars. When the children
stood at the edge of a canal and called down to unseen friends in boats the pink lights were
all reflected orderly below. The light of the thousand small lights in the street went straight
up into the darkness among the interlacing telegraph wires, and just at the edge of the shining
haze, on a sort of pigeon-trap, forty feet above ground, sat a Japanese fireman, wrapped up
in his cloak, keeping watch against fires. He looked unpleasantly like a Bulgarian atrocity
or a Burmese 'deviation from the laws of humanity,' being very still and all huddled up in
his roost. That was a superb picture and it arranged itself to admiration. Now, disregarding
these things and others--wonders and miracles all--men are content to sit in studios and, by
light that is not light, to fake subjects from pots and pans and rags and bricks that are called
'pieces of colour.' Their collection of rubbish costs in the end quite as much as a ticket,
a first-class one, to new worlds where the 'props' are given away with the sunshine. To do
anything because it is, or may not be, new on the market is wickedness that carries its own
punishment; but surely there must be things in this world paintable other and beyond those
that lie between the North Cape, say, and Algiers. For the sake of the pictures, putting aside
the dear delight of the gamble, it might be worth while to venture out a little beyond the
regular circle of subjects and--see what happens. If a man can draw one thing, it has been
said, he can draw anything. At the most he can but fail, and there are several matters in the
world worse than failure. Betting on a certainty, for instance, or playing with nicked cards
is immoral, and secures expulsion from clubs. Keeping deliberately to one set line of work
because you know you can do it and are certain to get money by so doing is, on the other hand,
counted a virtue, and secures admission to clubs. There must be a middle way somewhere, as
there must be somewhere an unmarried man with no position, reputation, or other vanity to lose,
who most keenly wants to find out what his palette is set for in this life. He will pack his
steamer-trunk and get into the open to wrestle with effects that he can never reproduce. All
the same his will be a superb failure.

'CAPTAINS COURAGEOUS'

From Yokohama to Montreal is a long day's journey, and the forepart is uninviting. In three
voyages out of five, the North Pacific, too big to lie altogether idle, too idle to get hands
about the business of a storm, sulks and smokes like a chimney; the passengers fresh from Japan
heat wither in the chill, and a clammy dew distils from the rigging. That gray monotony of
sea is not at all homelike, being as yet new and not used to the procession of keels. It holds
a very few pictures and the best of its stories--those relating to seal-poaching among the
Kuriles and the Russian rookeries--are not exactly fit for publication. There is a man in Yokohama
who in a previous life burned galleons with Drake. He is a gentleman adventurer of the largest
and most resourceful--by instinct a carver of kingdoms, a ruler of men on the high seas, and
an inveterate gambler against Death. Because he supplies nothing more than sealskins to the
wholesale dealers at home, the fame of his deeds, his brilliant fights, his more brilliant
escapes, and his most brilliant strategy will be lost among sixty-ton schooners, or told only
in the mouths of drunken seamen whom none believe. Now there sits a great spirit under the
palm trees of the Navigator Group, a thousand leagues to the south, and he, crowned with roses
and laurels, strings together the pearls of those parts. When he has done with this down there
perhaps he will turn to the Smoky Seas and the Wonderful Adventures of Captain--. Then there
will be a tale to listen to.

But the first touch of dry land makes the sea and all upon it unreal. Five minutes after the
traveller is on the C.P.R, train at Vancouver there is no romance of blue water, but another
kind--the life of the train into which he comes to grow as into life aboard ship. A week on
wheels turns a man into a part of the machine. He knows when the train will stop to water,
wait for news of the trestle ahead, drop the dining-car, slip into a siding to let the West-bound
mail go by, or yell through the thick night for an engine to help push up the bank. The snort,
the snap and whine of the air-brakes have a meaning for him, and he learns to distinguish between
noises--between the rattle of a loose lamp and the ugly rattle of small stones on a scarped
embankment--between the 'Hoot! toot!' that scares wandering cows from the line, and the dry
roar of the engine at the distance-signal. In England the railway came late into a settled
country fenced round with the terrors of the law, and it has remained ever since just a little
outside daily life--a thing to be respected. Here it strolls along, with its hands in its pockets
and a straw in its mouth, on the heels of the rough-hewn trail or log road--a platformless,
regulationless necessity; and it is treated even by sick persons and young children with a
familiarity that sometimes affects the death-rate. There was a small maiden aged seven, who
honoured our smoking compartment with her presence when other excitements failed, and it was
she that said to the conductor, 'When do we change crews? I want to pick water-lilies--yellow
ones.' A mere halt she knew would not suffice for her needs; but the regular fifteen-minute
stop, when the red-painted tool-chest was taken off the rear car and a new gang came aboard.
The big man bent down to little Impudence--'Want to pick lilies, eh? What would you do if the
cars went on and took mama away, Sis?' 'Take the, next train,' she replied, 'and tell the conductor
to send me to Brooklyn. I live there.' 'But s'pose he wouldn't?' 'He'd have to,' said Young
America. 'I'd be a lost child.'

Now, from the province of Alberta to Brooklyn, U.S.A., may be three thousand miles. A great
stretch of that distance is as new as the day before yesterday, and strewn with townships in
every stage of growth from the city of one round house, two log huts, and a Chinese camp somewhere
in the foot-hills of the Selkirks, to Winnipeg with her league-long main street and her warring
newspapers. Just at present there is an epidemic of politics in Manitoba, and brass bands and
notices of committee meetings are splashed about the towns. By reason of their closeness to
the Stages they have caught the contagion of foul-mouthedness, and accusations of bribery,
corruption, and evil-living are many. It is sweet to find a little baby-city, with only three
men in it who can handle type, cursing and swearing across the illimitable levels for all the
world as though it were a grown-up Christian centre.

All the new towns have their own wants to consider, and the first of these is a railway. If
the town is on a line already, then a new line to tap the back country; but at all costs a
line. For this it will sell its corrupted soul, and then be very indignant because the railway
before which it has grovelled rides rough-shod over the place.

Each new town believes itself to be a possible Winnipeg until the glamour of the thing is a
little worn off, and the local paper, sliding down the pole of Pride with the hind legs of
despair, says defiantly: 'At least, a veterinary surgeon and a drug store would meet with encouragement
in our midst, and it is a fact that five new buildings have been erected in our midst since
the spring.' From a distance nothing is easier than to smile at this sort of thing, but he
must have a cool head who can keep his pulse level when just such a wildcat town--ten houses,
two churches, and a line of rails--gets 'on the boom,' The reader at home says, 'Yes, but it's
all a lie.' It may be, but--did men lie about Denver, Leadville, Ballarat, Broken Hill, Portland,
or Winnipeg twenty years ago--or Adelaide when town lots went begging within the memory of
middle-aged men? Did they lie about Vancouver six years since, or Creede not twenty months
gone? Hardly; and it is just this knowledge that leads the passer-by to give ear to the wildest
statements of the wildest towns. Anything is possible, especially among the Rockies where the
minerals lie over and above the mining towns, the centres of ranching country, and the supply
towns to the farming districts. There are literally scores upon scores of lakelets in the hills,
buried in woods now, that before twenty years are run will be crowded summer resorts. You in
England have no idea of what 'summering' means in the States, and less of the amount of money
that is spent on the yearly holiday. People have no more than just begun to discover the place
called the Banff Hot Springs, two days west of Winnipeg.[1] In a little time they will know
half-a-dozen spots not a day's ride from Montreal, and it is along that line that money will
be made. In those days, too, wheat will be grown for the English market four hundred miles
north of the present fields on the west side; and British Columbia, perhaps the loveliest land
in the world next to New Zealand, will have her own line of six thousand ton steamers to Australia,
and the British investor will no longer throw away his money on hellicat South American republics,
or give it as a hostage to the States. He will keep it in the family as a wise man should.
Then the towns that are to-day the only names in the wilderness, yes, and some of those places
marked on the map as Hudson Bay Ports, will be cities, because--but it is hopeless to make
people understand that actually and indeed, we do possess an Empire of which Canada is only
one portion--an Empire which is not bounded by election-returns on the North and Eastbourne
riots on the South--an Empire that has not yet been scratched.

[Footnote 1: See pp. 187-188.]

Let us return to the new towns. Three times within one year did fortune come knocking to the
door of a man I know. Once at Seattle, when that town was a gray blur after a fire; once at
Tacoma, in the days when the steam-tram ran off the rails twice a week; and once at Spokane
Falls. But in the roar of the land-boom he did not hear her, and she went away leaving him
only a tenderness akin to weakness for all new towns, and a desire, mercifully limited by lack
of money, to gamble in every one of them. Of all the excitements that life offers there are
few to be compared with the whirl of a red-hot boom; also it is strictly moral, because you
do fairly earn your 'unearned increment' by labour and perspiration and sitting up far into
the night--by working like a fiend, as all pioneers must do. And consider all that is in it!
The headlong stampede to the new place; the money dashed down like counters for merest daily
bread; the arrival of the piled cars whence the raw material of a city--men, lumber, and shingle--are
shot on to the not yet nailed platform; the slashing out and pegging down of roads across the
blank face of the wilderness; the heaving up amid shouts and yells of the city's one electric
light--a raw sizzling arc atop of an unbarked pine pole; the sweating, jostling mob at the
sale of town-lots; the roar of 'Let the woman have it!' that stops all bidding when the one
other woman in the place puts her price on a plot; the packed real-estate offices; the real-estate
agents themselves, lost novelists of prodigious imagination; the gorgeous pink and blue map
of the town, hung up in the bar-room, with every railroad from Portland to Portland meeting
in its heart; the misspelled curse against 'this dam hole in the ground' scrawled on the flank
of a strayed freight-car by some man who had lost his money and gone away; the conferences
at street corners of syndicates six hours established by men not twenty-five years old; the
outspoken contempt for the next town, also 'on the boom,' and, therefore, utterly vile; the
unceasing tramp of heavy feet on the board pavement, where stranger sometimes turns on stranger
in an agony of conviction, and, shaking him by the shoulder, shouts in his ear, 'By G--d! Isn't
it grand? Isn't it glorious? 'and last, the sleep of utterly worn-out men, three in each room
of the shanty hotel: 'All meals two dollars. All drinks thirty-five cents. No washing done
here. The manager not responsible for anything.' Does the bald catalogue of these recitals
leave you cold? It is possible; but it is also possible after three days in a new town to set
the full half of a truck-load of archbishops fighting for corner lots as they never fought
for mitre or crozier. There is a contagion in a boom as irresistible as that of a panic in
a theatre.

After a while things settle down, and then the carpenter, who is also an architect, can lay
his bare arms across the bar and sell them to the highest bidder, for the houses are coming
up like toadstools after rain. The men who do not build cheer those who do, in that building
means backing your belief in your town--yours to you and peculiarly. Confound all other towns
whatsoever. Behind the crowd of business men the weekly town paper plays as a stockwhip plays
on a mob of cattle. There is honour, heaped, extravagant, imperial for the good--the employer
of labour, the builder of stores, the spender of money; there is abuse, savage and outrageous,
for the bad, the man who 'buys out of the town,' the man who intends to go, the sitter on the
fence; with persuasion and invitation in prose, verse, and zincograph for all that outside
world which prefers to live in cities other than Ours.

Now the editor, as often as not, begins as a mercenary and ends as a patriot. This, too, is
all of a piece with human nature. A few years later, if Providence is good, comes the return
for judicious investment. Perhaps the town has stood the test of boom, and that which was clapboard
is now Milwaukee brick or dressed stone, vile in design but permanent. The shanty hotel is
the Something House, with accommodation for two hundred guests. The manager who served you
in his shirt-sleeves as his own hotel clerk, is gorgeous in broadcloth, and needs to be reminded
of the first meeting. Suburban villas more or less adorn the flats, from which the liveliest
fancy (and fancy was free in the early days) hung back. Horse-cars jingle where the prairie
schooner used to stick fast in the mud-hole, scooped to that end, opposite the saloon; and
there is a Belt Electric Service paying fabulous dividends. Then, do you, feeling older than
Methuselah and twice as important, go forth and patronise things in general, while the manager
tells you exactly what sort of millionaire you would have been if you had 'stayed by the town.'

Or else--the bottom has tumbled out of the boom, and the town new made is dead--dead as a young
man's corpse laid out in the morning. Success was not justified by success. Of ten thousand
not three hundred remain, and these live in huts on the outskirts of the brick streets. The
hotel, with its suites of musty rooms, is a big tomb; the factory chimneys are cold; the villas
have no glass in them, and the fire-weed glows in the centre of the driveways, mocking the
arrogant advertisements in the empty shops. There is nothing to do except to catch trout in
the stream that was to have been defiled by the city sewage. A two-pounder lies fanning himself
just in the cool of the main culvert, where the alders have crept up to the city wall. You
pay your money and, more or less, you take your choice.

By the time that man has seen these things and a few others that go with a boom he may say
that he has lived, and talk with his enemies in the gate. He has heard the Arabian Nights retold
and knows the inward kernel of that romance, which some? little folk say is vanished. Here
they lie in their false teeth, for Cortes is not dead, nor Drake, and Sir Philip Sidney dies
every few months if you know where to look. The adventurers and captains courageous of old
have only changed their dress a little and altered their employment to suit the world in which
they move. Clive came down from Lobengula's country a few months ago protesting that there
was an empire there, and finding very few that believed. Hastings studied a map of South Africa
in a corrugated iron hut at Johannesburg ten years ago. Since then he has altered the map considerably
to the advantage of the Empire, but the heart of the Empire is set on ballot-boxes and small
lies. The illustrious Don Quixote to-day lives on the north coast of Australia where he has
found the treasure of a sunken Spanish galleon. Now and again he destroys black fellows who
hide under his bed to spear him. Young Hawkins, with a still younger Boscawen for his second,
was till last year chasing slave-dhows round Tajurrah; they have sent him now to the Zanzibar
coast to be grilled into an admiral; and the valorous Sandoval has been holding the 'Republic'
of Mexico by the throat any time these fourteen years gone. The others, big men all and not
very much afraid of responsibility, are selling horses, breaking trails, drinking sangaree,
running railways beyond the timberline, swimming rivers, blowing up tree-stumps, and making
cities where no cities were, in all the five quarters of the world. Only people will not believe
this when you tell them. They are too near things and a great deal too well fed. So they say
of the most cold-blooded realism: 'This is romance. How interesting!' And of over-handled,
thumb-marked realism: 'This is indeed romance!' It is the next century that, looking over its
own, will see the heroes of our time clearly.

Meantime this earth of ours--we hold a fair slice of it so far--is full of wonders and miracles
and mysteries and marvels, and, in default, it is good to go up and down seeing and hearing
tell of them all.

ON ONE SIDE ONLY

NEW OXFORD, U.S.A., June-July 1892.

'The truth is,' said the man in the train, 'that we live in a tropical country for three months
of the year, only we won't recognise. Look at this.' He handed over a long list of deaths from
heat that enlivened the newspapers. All the cities where men live at breaking-strain were sending
in their butcher-bills, and the papers of the cities, themselves apostles of the Gospel of
Rush, were beseeching their readers to keep cool and not to overwork themselves while the hot
wave was upon them. The rivers were patched and barred with sun-dried pebbles; the logs and
loggers were drought-bound somewhere up the Connecticut; and the grass at the side of the track
was burned in a hundred places by the sparks from locomotives. Men--hatless, coatless, and
gasping--lay in the shade of that station where only a few months ago the glass stood at 30
below zero. Now the readings were 98 degrees in the shade. Main Street--do you remember Main
Street of a little village locked up in the snow this spring?[2]--had given up the business
of life, and an American flag with some politician's name printed across the bottom hung down
across the street as stiff as a board. There were men with fans and alpaca coats curled up
in splint chairs in the verandah of the one hotel--among them an ex-President of the United
States. He completed the impression that the furniture of the entire country had been turned
out of doors for summer cleaning in the absence of all the inhabitants. Nothing looks so hopelessly
'ex' as a President 'returned to stores,' The stars and stripes signified that the Presidential
Campaign had opened in Main Street--opened and shut up again. Politics evaporate at summer
heat when all hands are busy with the last of the hay, and, as the formers put it, 'Vermont's
bound to go Republican.' The custom of the land is to drag the scuffle and dust of an election
over several months--to the improvement of business and manners; but the noise of that war
comes faintly up the valley of the Connecticut and is lost among the fiddling of the locusts.
Their music puts, as it were, a knife edge upon the heat of the day. In truth, it is a tropical
country for the time being. Thunder-storms prowl and growl round the belted hills, spit themselves
away in a few drops of rain, and leave the air more dead than before. In the woods, where even
the faithful springs are beginning to run low, the pines and balsams have thrown out all their
fragrance upon the heat and wait for the wind to bring news of the rain. The clematis, wild
carrot, and all the gipsy-flowers camped by sufferance between fence line and road net are
masked in white dust, and the golden-rod of the pastures that are burned to flax-colour burns
too like burnished brass. A pillar of dust on the long hog-back of the road across the hills
shows where a team is lathering between farms, and the roofs of the wooden houses flicker in
the haze of their own heat. Overhead the chicken-hawk is the only creature at work, and his
shrill kite-like call sends the gaping chickens from the dust-bath in haste to their mothers.
The red squirrel as usual feigns business of importance among the butternuts, but this is pure
priggishness. When the passer-by is gone he ceases chattering and climbs back to where the
little breezes can stir his tail-plumes. From somewhere under the lazy fold of a meadow comes
the drone of a mowing-machine among the hay--its whurr-oo and the grunt of the tired horses.

[Footnote 2: See 'In Sight of Monadnock.']

Houses are only meant to eat and sleep in. The rest of life is lived at full length in the
verandah. When traffic is brisk three whole teams will pass that verandah in one day, and it
is necessary to exchange news about the weather and the prospects for oats. When oats are in
there will be slack time on the farm, and the farmers will seriously think of doing the hundred
things that they have let slide during the summer. They will undertake this and that, 'when
they get around to it.' The phrase translated is the exact equivalent to the mañana of the
Spaniard, the kul hojaiga of Upper India, the yuroshii of the Japanese, and the long drawled
taihod of the Maori. The only person who 'gets around' in this weather is the summer boarder--the
refugee from the burning cities of the Plain, and she is generally a woman. She walks, and
botanizes, and kodaks, and strips the bark off the white birch to make blue-ribboned waste-paper
baskets, and the farmer regards her with wonder. More does he wonder still at the city clerk
in a blazer, who has two weeks' holiday in the year and, apparently, unlimited money, which
he earns in the easiest possible way by 'sitting at a desk and writing,' The farmer's wife
sees the fashions of the summer boarder, and between them man and woman get a notion of the
beauties of city life for which their children may live to blame them. The blazer and the town-made
gown are innocent recruiting sergeants for the city brigades; and since one man's profession
is ever a mystery to his fellow, blazer and gown believe that the farmer must be happy and
content. A summer resort is one of the thousand windows whence to watch the thousand aspects
of life in the Atlantic States. Remember that between June and September it is the desire of
all who can to get away from the big cities--not on account of wantonness, as people leave
London--but because of actual heat. So they get away in their millions with their millions--the
wives of the rich men for five clear months, the others for as long as they can; and, like
drawing like, they make communities set by set, breed by breed, division by division, over
the length and breadth of the land--from Maine and the upper reaches of the Saguenay, through
the mountains and hot springs of half-a-dozen interior States, out and away to Sitka in steamers.
Then they spend money on hotel bills, among ten thousand farms, on private companies who lease
and stock land for sporting purposes, on yachts and canoes, bicycles, rods, châlets, cottages,
reading circles, camps, tents, and all the luxuries they know. But the luxury of rest most
of them do not know; and the telephone and telegraph are faithfully dragged after them, lest
their men-folk should for a moment forget the ball and chain at foot.

For sadness with laughter at bottom there are few things to compare with the sight of a coat-less,
muddy-booted, millionaire, his hat adorned with trout-flies, and a string of small fish in
his hand, clawing wildly at the telephone of some back-of-beyond 'health resort.' Thus:

'Hello! Hello! Yes. Who's there? Oh, all right. Go ahead. Yes, it's me! Hey, what? Repeat.
Sold for how much? Forty-four and a half? Repeat. No! I told you to hold on. What? What? Who
bought at that? Say, hold a minute. Cable the other side. No. Hold on. I'll come down. (Business
with watch.) Tell Schaefer I'll see him to-morrow.' (Over his shoulder to his wife, who wears
half-hoop diamond rings at 10 A.M.) 'Lizzie, where's my grip? I've got to go down.'

And he goes down to eat in a hotel and sleep in his shut-up house. Men are as scarce at most
of the summer places as they are in Indian hill-stations in late April. The women tell you
that they can't get away, and if they did they would only be miserable to get back. Now whether
this wholesale abandonment of husbands by wives is wholesome let those who know the beauties
of the Anglo-Indian system settle for themselves.

That both men and women need rest very badly a glance at the crowded hotel tables makes plain--so
plain, indeed, that the foreigner who has not been taught that fuss and worry are in themselves
honourable wishes sometimes he could put the whole unrestful crowd to sleep for seventeen hours
a day. I have inquired of not less than five hundred men and women in various parts of the
States why they broke down and looked so gash. And the men said: 'If you don't keep up with
the procession in America you are left'; and the women smiled an evil smile and answered that
no outsider yet had discovered the real cause of their worry and strain, or why their lives
were arranged to work with the largest amount of friction in the shortest given time. Now,
the men can be left to their own folly, but the cause of the women's trouble has been revealed
to me. It is the thing called 'Help' which is no help. In the multitude of presents that the
American man has given to the American woman (for details see daily papers) he has forgotten
or is unable to give her good servants, and that sordid trouble runs equally through the household
of the millionaire or the flat of the small city man. 'Yes, it's easy enough to laugh,' said
one woman passionately, 'we are worn out, and our children are worn out too, and we're always
worrying, I know it. What can we do? If you stay here you'll know that this is the land of
all the luxuries and none of the necessities. You'll know and then you won't laugh. You'll
know why women are said to take their husbands to boarding-houses and never have homes. You'll
know what an Irish Catholic means. The men won't get up and attend to these things, but we
would. If we had female suffrage, we'd shut the door to all the Irish and throw it open to
all the Chinese, and let the women have a little protection.' It was the cry of a soul worn
thin with exasperation, but it was truth. To-day I do not laugh any more at the race that depends
on inefficient helot races for its inefficient service. When next you, housekeeping in England,
differ with the respectable, amiable, industrious sixteen-pound maid, who wears a cap and says
'Ma'am,' remember the pauper labour of America--the wives of the sixty million kings who have
no subjects. No man could get a thorough knowledge of the problem in one lifetime, but he could
guess at the size and the import of it after he has descended into the arena and wrestled with
the Swede and the Dane and the German and the unspeakable Celt. Then he perceives how good
for the breed it must be that a man should thresh himself to pieces in naked competition with
his neighbour while his wife struggles unceasingly over primitive savagery in the kitchen.
In India sometimes when a famine is at hand the life of the land starts up before your eyes
in all its bareness and bitter stress. Here, in spite of the trimmings and the frillings, it
refuses to be subdued and the clamour and the clatter of it are loud above all other sounds--as
sometimes the thunder of disorganised engines stops conversations along the decks of a liner,
and in the inquiring eyes of the passengers you read the question--'This thing is made and
paid to bear us to port quietly. Why does it not do so?' Only here, the rattle of the badly-put-together
machine is always in the ears, though men and women run about with labour-saving appliances
and gospels of 'power through repose,' tinkering and oiling and making more noise. The machine
is new. Some day it is going to be the finest machine in the world. To the ranks of the amateur
artificers, therefore, are added men with notebooks tapping at every nut and bolthead, fiddling
with the glands, registering revolutions, and crying out from time to time that this or that
is or is not 'distinctively American.' Meantime, men and women die unnecessarily in the wheels,
and they are said to have fallen 'in the battle of life.'

The God Who sees us all die knows that there is far too much of that battle, but we do not,
and so continue worshipping the knife that cuts and the wheel that breaks us, as blindly as
the outcast sweeper worships Lal-Beg the Glorified Broom that is the incarnation of his craft.
But the sweeper has sense enough not to kill himself, and to be proud of it, with sweeping.

A foreigner can do little good by talking of these things; for the same lean dry blood that
breeds the fever of unrest breeds also the savage parochial pride that squeals under a steady
stare or a pointed finger. Among themselves the people of the Eastern cities admit that they
and their womenfolk overwork grievously and go to pieces very readily, and that the consequences
for the young stock are unpleasant indeed; but before the stranger they prefer to talk about
the future of their mighty continent (which has nothing to do with the case) and to call aloud
on Baal of the Dollars--to catalogue their lines, mines, telephones, banks, and cities, and
all the other shells, buttons, and counters that they have made their Gods over them. Now a
nation does not progress upon its brain-pan, as some books would have us believe, but upon
its belly as did the Serpent of old; and in the very long run the work of the brain comes to
be gathered in by a slow-footed breed that have unimaginative stomachs and the nerves that
know their place.

All this is very consoling from the alien's point of view. He perceives, with great comfort,
that out of strain is bred impatience in the shape of a young bundle of nerves, who is about
as undisciplined an imp as the earth can show. Out of impatience, grown up, habituated to violent
and ugly talk, and the impatience and recklessness of his neighbours, is begotten lawlessness,
encouraged by laziness and suppressed by violence when it becomes insupportable. Out of lawlessness
is bred rebellion (and that fruit has been tasted once already), and out of rebellion comes
profit to those who wait. He hears of the power of the People who, through rank slovenliness,
neglect to see that their laws are soberly enforced from the beginning; and these People, not
once or twice in a year, but many times within a month, go out in the open streets and, with
a maximum waste of power and shouting, strangle other people with ropes. They are, he is told,
law-abiding citizens who have executed 'the will of the people'; which is as though a man should
leave his papers unsorted for a year and then smash his desk with an axe, crying, 'Am I not
orderly?' He hears lawyers, otherwise sane and matured, defend this pig-jobbing murder on the
grounds that 'the People stand behind the Law'--the law that they never administered. He sees
a right, at present only half--but still half--conceded to anticipate the law in one's own
interests; and nervous impatience (always nerves) forejudging the suspect in gaol, the prisoner
in the dock, and the award between nation and nation ere it is declared. He knows that the
maxim in London, Yokohama, and Hongkong in doing business with the pure-bred American is to
keep him waiting, for the reason that forced inaction frets the man to a lather, as standing
in harness frets a half-broken horse. He comes across a thousand little peculiarities of speech,
manner, and thought--matters of nerve and stomach developed by everlasting friction--and they
are all just the least little bit in the world lawless. No more so than the restless clicking
together of horns in a herd of restless cattle, but certainly no less. They are all good--good
for those who wait.

On the other hand, to consider the matter more humanly, there are thousands of delightful men
and women going to pieces for the pitiful reason that if they do not keep up with the procession,
'they are left.' And they are left--in clothes that have no back to them, among mounds of smilax.
And young men--chance-met in the streets, talk to you about their nerves which are things no
young man should know anything about; and the friends of your friends go down with nervous
prostration, and the people overheard in the trains talk about their nerves and the nerves
of their relatives; and the little children must needs have their nerves attended to ere their
milk-teeth are shed, and the middle-aged women and the middle-aged men have got them too, and
the old men lose the dignity of their age in an indecent restlessness, and the advertisements
in the papers go to show that this sweeping list is no lie. Atop of the fret and the stampede,
the tingling self-consciousness of a new people makes them take a sort of perverted pride in
the futile racket that sends up the death-rate--a child's delight in the blaze and the dust
of the March of Progress. Is it not 'distinctively American'? It is, and it is not. If the
cities were all America, as they pretend, fifty years would see the March of Progress brought
to a standstill, as a locomotive is stopped by heated bearings....

Down in the meadow the mowing-machine has checked, and the horses are shaking themselves. The
last of the sunlight leaves the top of Monadnock, and four miles away Main Street lights her
electric lamps. It is band-night in Main Street, and the folks from Putney, from Marlboro',
from Guildford, and even New Fane will drive in their well-filled waggons to hear music and
look at the Ex-President. Over the shoulder of the meadow two men come up very slowly, their
hats off and their arms swinging loosely at their sides. They do not hurry, they have not hurried,
and they never will hurry, for they are of country--bankers of the flesh and blood of the ever
bankrupt cities. Their children may yet be pale summer boarders; as the boarders, city-bred
weeds, may take over their farms. From the plough to the pavement goes man, but to the plough
he returns at last.

'Going to supper?'

'Ye-ep,' very slowly across the wash of the uncut grass.

'Say, that corncrib wants painting.'

''Do that when we get around to it.'

They go off through the dusk, without farewell or salutation steadily as their own steers.
And there are a few millions of them--unhandy men to cross in their ways, set, silent, indirect
in speech, and as impenetrable as that other Eastern fanner who is the bedrock of another land.
They do not appear in the city papers, they are not much heard in the streets, and they tell
very little in the outsider's estimate of America.

And they are the American.

LEAVES FROM A WINTER NOTE-BOOK

(1895)

We had walked abreast of the year from the very beginning, and that was when the first blood-root
came up between the patches of April snow, while yet the big drift at the bottom of the meadow
held fast. In the shadow of the woods and under the blown pine-needles, clots of snow lay till
far into May, but neither the season nor the flowers took any note of them, and, before we
were well sure Winter had gone, the lackeys of my Lord Baltimore in their new liveries came
to tell us that Summer was in the valley, and please might they nest at the bottom of the garden?

Followed, Summer, angry, fidgety, and nervous, with the corn and tobacco to ripen in five short
months, the pastures to reclothe, and the fallen leaves to hide away under new carpets. Suddenly,
in the middle of her work, on a stuffy-still July day, she called a wind out of the Northwest,
a wind blown under an arch of steel-bellied clouds, a wicked bitter wind with a lacing of hail
to it, a wind that came and was gone in less than ten minutes, but blocked the roads with fallen
trees, toppled over a barn, and--blew potatoes out of the ground! When that was done, a white
cloud shaped like a dumb-bell whirled down the valley across the evening blue, roaring and
twisting and twisting and roaring all alone by itself. A West Indian hurricane could not have
been quicker on its feet than our little cyclone, and when the house rose a-tiptoe, like a
cockerel in act to crow, and a sixty-foot elm went by the board, and that which had been a
dusty road became a roaring torrent all in three minutes, we felt that the New England summer
had creole blood in her veins. 

SUCH, EUMORFO.

CREMATURGO .-- What nerve is this? How dare you, Eumorfo, to introduce
and compete with me?

I have in my possession four promissory notes due and archivencidos
yours, and I'll execute you tomorrow.

Restrain your anger .-- EUMORFO, generous mogul. I knew that I belonged Asclepigenia.

CREMATURGO .-- Either way, the truth is that Asclepigenia cheated
us the three lovers.

The perhaps, what I say anything? the goddess Minerva has brought
us here to disabuse.

Let Asclepigenia to see and tell you what you deserve. She waits alone. Come to my company.

Let .-- EUMORFO.

Let .-- PROCLEAN.

(Proclus philosopher takes his stick and go out together all three.)

SCENE
IX.

Parastasio platform or rich and elegant Asclepigenia house adorned
with statues and paintings, and illuminated by lamps, some hanging
from the ceiling, placed on tables other Delphic.

Asclepigenia And Atenais.

(The first appears reclining languidly lying almost in a chair esquimpodio or longer. Atenais, at his
side, on a stool.)

Atenais .-- How you saw your first love?

Asclepigenia .-- Yes, I have seen.

It has given me a pity. Is thin, pale, shriveled. And then How dirty!

I certainly in the fifteen years he has lived away from me has not washed alone even when your
hands.

Atenais .-- This serious flaw has spiritualism or mysticism, now private
and spreads.

It seems that the virtues required to fashion the righteous who are pigs.

Asclepigenia .-- And that's not the worst, but the mood seizes a sadness vague and sophistic that
weakens; sadness that the former just met, a contempt for the world and the sweetness of life,
cities and towns depopulated deserts, a disdain for the welfare and
wealth, stealing arms to agriculture and industry, and a gentleness
resigned amengua that the value of citizen and soldier.

More than Attila and all the barbarians, I do symptoms predict the
total ruin of civilization. But back to dirt and neglect in person,
I assure you it gave me creeps see Proclus. Offends any medium nose
sensitive.

Atenais .-- Cruel drawback is that if you have to live
with Proclus.

Asclepigenia .-- I know about it. I will not go in
discussions or advice, but, as a joke, I'll have morning I caught
two slaves before eating, you blow in a bathroom and I will wash and
scrub with almond paste and rubbed onto me diapasma aromas. Himself
will feel better afterwards, and make a habit of washing.

Atenais
.-- But, declare openly, in spite of Proclus is so old, so worn and
so dirty, would you still love?

Asclepigenia .-- I love him and adore
him. It seems to me that he is the latest incarnation of the wonderful
genius of Greece. Loving, is magnificent and praises my whole being,
even consider myself as science, poetry, Greek civilization personified.

Atenais
.-- Indeed, Proclus is the prince of philosophers. It is almost
straight, lapped at the butt with leather, amazingly springy, and carries a two-edged blade
for splitting and chopping. If his Demon be with him--and what artist can answer for all his
moods?--he will cause a tree to fall upon any stick or stone that you choose, uphill or down,
to the right or to the left. Artist-like, however, he explains that that is nothing. Any fool
can play with a tree in the open, but it needs the craftsman to bring a tree down in thick
timber and do no harm. To see an eighty-foot maple, four feet in the butt, dropped, deftly
as a fly is cast, in the only place where it will not outrage the feelings and swipe off the
tops of fifty juniors, is a revelation. White pine, hemlock, and spruce share this country
with maples, black and white birches, and beech. Maple seems to have few preferences, and the
white birches straggle and shiver on the outskirts of every camp; but the pines hold together
in solid regiments, sending out skirmishers to invade a neglected pasture on the first opportunity.
There is no overcoat warmer than the pines in a gale when the woods for miles round are singing
like cathedral organs, and the first snow of the year powders the rock-ledges.

The mosses and lichens, green, sulphur, and amber, stud the copper floor of needles, where
the feathery ground-pine runs aimlessly to and fro along the ground, spelling out broken words
of half-forgotten charms. There are checker-berries on the outskirts of the wood, where the
partridge (he is a ruffed grouse really) dines, and by the deserted logging-roads toadstools
of all colours sprout on the decayed stumps. Wherever a green or blue rock lifts from the hillside,
the needles have been packed and matted round its base, till, when the sunshine catches them,
stone and setting together look no meaner than turquoise in dead gold. The woods are full of
colour, belts and blotches of it, the colours of the savage--red, yellow, and blue. Yet in
their lodges there is very little life, for the wood-people do not readily go into the shadows.
The squirrels have their business among the beeches and hickories by the road-side, where they
can watch the traffic and talk. We have no gray ones hereabouts (they are good to eat and suffer
for it), but five reds live in a hickory hard by, and no weather puts them to sleep. The wood-chuck,
a marmot and a strategist, makes his burrow in the middle of a field, where he must see you
ere you see him. Now and again a dog manages to cut him off his base, and the battle is worth
crossing fields to watch. But the woodchuck turned in long ago, and will not be out till April.
The coon lives--well, no one seems to know particularly where Brer Coon lives, but when the
Hunter's Moon is large and full he descends into the corn-lands, and men chase him with dogs
for his fur, which makes the finest kind of overcoat, and his flesh, which tastes like chicken.
He cries at night sorrowfully as though a child were lost.

They seem to kill, for one reason or other, everything that moves in this land. Hawks, of course;
eagles for their rarity; foxes for their pelts; red-shouldered blackbirds and Baltimore orioles
because they are pretty, and the other small things for sport--French fashion. You can get
a rifle of a kind for twelve shillings, and if your neighbour be fool enough to post notices
forbidding 'hunting' and fishing, you naturally seek his woods. So the country is very silent
and unalive.

There are, however, bears within a few miles, as you will see from this notice, picked up at
the local tobacconist's:

  JOHNNY GET YOUR GUN! BEAR HUNT!

As bears are too numerous in the town of Peltyville Corners, Vt., the hunters of the surrounding
towns are invited to participate in a grand hunt to be held on Blue Mountains in the town of
Peltyville Corners, Vt., Wednesday, Nov. 8th, if pleasant. If not, first fine day. Come one,
come all!

They went, but it was the bear that would not participate. The notice was printed at somebody's
Electric Print Establishment. Queer mixture, isn't it?

The bear does not run large as a rule, but he has a weakness for swine and calves which brings
punishment. Twelve hours' rail and a little marching take you up to the moose-country; and
twenty-odd miles from here as the crow flies you come to virgin timber, where trappers live,
and where there is a Lost Pond that many have found once but can never find again.

Men, who are of one blood with sheep, have followed their friends and the railway along the
river valleys where the towns are. Across the hills the inhabitants are few, and, outside their
State, little known. They withdraw from society in November if they live on the uplands, coming
down in May as the snow gives leave. Not much more than a generation ago these farms made their
own clothes, soap, and candles, and killed their own meat thrice a year, beef, veal, and pig,
and sat still between-times. Now they buy shop-made clothes, patent soaps, and kerosene; and
it is among their tents that the huge red and gilt Biographies of Presidents, and the twenty-pound
family Bibles, with illuminated marriage-registers, mourning-cards, baptismal certificates,
and hundreds of genuine steel-engravings, sell best. Here, too, off the main-travelled roads,
the wandering quack--Patent Electric Pills, nerve cures, etc.--divides the field with the seed
and fruit man and the seller of cattle-boluses. They dose themselves a good deal, I fancy,
for it is a poor family that does not know all about nervous prostration. So the quack drives
a pair of horses and a gaily-painted waggon with a hood, and sometimes takes his wife with
him. Once only have I met a pedlar afoot. He was an old man, shaken with palsy, and he pushed
a thing exactly like a pauper's burial-cart, selling pins, tape, scents, and flavourings. You
helped yourself, for his hands had no direction, and he told a long tale in which the deeding
away of a farm to one of his family was mixed up with pride at the distances he still could
cover daily. As much as six miles sometimes. He was no Lear, as the gift of the farm might
suggest, but sealed of the tribe of the Wandering Jew--a tremulous old giddy-gaddy. There are
many such rovers, gelders of colts and the like, who work a long beat, south to Virginia almost,
and north to the frontier, paying with talk and gossip for their entertainment.

Yet tramps are few, and that is well, for the American article answers almost exactly to the
vagrant and criminal tribes of India, being a predatory ruffian who knows too much to work.
'Bad place to beg in after dark--on a farm--very--is Vermont. Gypsies pitch their camp by the
river in the spring, and cooper horses in the manner of their tribe. They have the gypsy look
and some of the old gypsy names, but say that they are largely mixed with Gentile blood.

Winter has chased all these really interesting people south, and in a few weeks, if we have
anything of a snow, the back farms will be unvisited save by the doctor's hooded sleigh. It
is no child's play to hold a practice here through the winter months, when the drifts are really
formed, and a pair can drop in up to their saddle-pads. Four horses a day some of them use,
and use up--for they are good men.

Now in the big silence of the snow is born, perhaps, not a little of that New England conscience
which her children write about. There is much time to think, and thinking is a highly dangerous
business. Conscience, fear, undigested reading, and, it may be, not too well cooked food, have
full swing. A man, and more particularly a woman, can easily hear strange voices--the Word
of the Lord rolling between the dead hills; may see visions and dream dreams; get revelations
and an outpouring of the spirit, and end (such things have been) lamentably enough in those
big houses by the Connecticut River which have been tenderly christened The Retreat. Hate breeds
as well as religion--the deep, instriking hate between neighbours, that is born of a hundred
little things added up, brooded over, and hatched by the stove when two or three talk together
in the long evenings. It would be very interesting to get the statistics of revivals and murders,
and find how many of them have been committed in the spring. But for undistracted people winter
is one long delight of the eye. In other lands one knows the snow as a nuisance that comes
and goes, and is sorely man-handled and messed at the last. Here it lies longer on the ground
than any crop--from November to April sometimes--and for three months life goes to the tune
of sleigh-bells, which are not, as a Southern visitor once hinted, ostentation, but safeguards.
The man who drives without them is not loved. The snow is a faithful barometer, foretelling
good sleighing or stark confinement to barracks. It is all the manure the stony pastures receive;
it cloaks the ground and prevents the frost bursting pipes; it is the best--I had almost written
the only--road-maker in the States. On the other side it can rise up in the night and bid the
people sit still as the Egyptians. It can stop mails; wipe out all time-tables; extinguish
the lamps of twenty towns, and kill man within sight of his own door-step or hearing of his
cattle unfed. No one who has been through even so modified a blizzard as New England can produce
talks lightly of the snow. Imagine eight-and-forty hours of roaring wind, the thermometer well
down towards zero, scooping and gouging across a hundred miles of newly fallen snow. The air
is full of stinging shot, and at ten yards the trees are invisible. The foot slides on a reef,
polished and black as obsidian, where the wind has skinned an exposed corner of road down to
the dirt ice of early winter. The next step ends hip-deep and over, for here an unseen wall
is banking back the rush of the singing drifts. And if the Incas did not fall into them and that
mitimaes would often rise up the natives and Esim real self-control; but with so many people of
both war and proveimiento of maintenance, could not, if between all the ones and others not
hobiese plot of treason or uprising, which had few Sometimes, because these governors that they
got, were of great trust, and all dried apricots and Dell had more than their chacaras, which
are inherited in the region of Cuzco, and their houses and relatives, and if one did not come out
enough to govern what I had to post after he was removed from command and put another in place.

And
these, if in some time came to Cuzco to private businesses or individuals
with the Kings, lieutenants left in their places, not to what they
wanted, but those who knew they would do [62] more accurately what
they had ordered, and more to the service of the Incas.

And if anyone desto governors or delegates dying in his presidency, natural, how and what was dead
sent in haste or probanza dello reason the Lord, and even the bodies of the dead took the path of
the posts, if Vian was proper. What each term taxed WITH THESE headers and helped the natives,
and gold, silver, and clothing and weapons, with everything else they gave, was handed over
to the account that had the quipos Camay, which made everything that I was sent this regard to losse
these things with people war, or repartillo with whom the Lord commanded, or to carry them to Cuzco,
but when Cuzco came to take the account, or to which they were to give to Cuzco, the mesmos quipos
counters with the giving or came to the giving to where there could be fraud, but all had to be
fair. And a few years spent without accounting and reason of all these things.

These governors had great authority and power enough to raise armies and bring people together
war, if it Recresco Supit any embarrassment or uprising, or to come any strange people somewhere
to make war, and were before the Lord honored and privileged; and
on this occasion remained, when the Spanish came, many of them with
perpetual control in the provinces.

I know some of them and be as aposesionados so that their children inherit what was in others.

When
peacetime came the Incas to visit his kingdom, he would have that great majesty, sitting on rich
litter, mounted on sticks smooth, long, fine woods, engastonadas gold and Argentería, and the
litter came forth two high arches, made of gold, engastonados precious stones, and fell somewhat long
blankets for all the litter of Thus, that covered all, and if it
was not wanting that was inside, could not be seen, or blankets, but
was lifted when it came and went, such was his esteem.

And for air gets in and he could see the road, the blankets had made some holes. For all parts
of these litters had wealth, and some were carved in the sun and moon some snakes and other large
OUNTY, and some as the crossed sticks, - this wore by insinia [63], for arms - and these litters
were worn on the shoulders of the older gentlemen and more major of the kingdom, who walked
over them, that it had more honest and most favored.

In meters around the litter and went spinning to the king's guard with archers and spearmen,
and before were five thousand slingers, and came back as many spears, with their captains,
and the sides of the road and on the same road, runners would discover what was true and announcing
the departure of the Lord, and went so many people see that it seemed that all the hills and
slopes were full della, and all gave their blessings raising great cries and screams his style,
calling them "Wide hatun apu, intipchuri, canqui zapallaapu tucuy
ccamp pacha uyay sullull [64], which in our language says: "Very large
and powerful Lord, son of the sun, thou only art the Lord, everybody
loves oya in truth.

"And they said other things this will higher; So little was needed to worship him by God.
 As a matter of fact, country interests at all seasons
are extensive and peculiar, and the day is not long enough for them when you take out that
time which a self-respecting man needs to turn himself round in. Consider! The solid undisturbed
hours stand about one like ramparts. At a certain time the sun will rise. At another hour,
equally certain, he will set. This much we know. Why, in the name of Reason, therefore, should
we vex ourselves with vain exertions? An occasional visitor from the Cities of the Plains comes
up panting to do things. He is set down to listen to the normal beat of his own heart--a sound
that very few men have heard. In a few days, when the lather of impatience has dried off, he
ceases to talk of 'getting there' or 'being left.' He does not desire to accomplish matters
'right away,' nor does he look at his watch from force of habit, but keeps it where it should
be--in his stomach. At the last he goes back to his beleaguered city, unwillingly, partially
civilised, soon to be resavaged by the clash of a thousand wars whose echo does not reach here.

The air which kills germs dries out the very newspapers. They might be of to-morrow or a hundred
years ago. They have nothing to do with to-day--the long, full, sunlit to-day. Our interests
are not on the same scale as theirs, perhaps, but much more complex. The movement of a foreign
power--an alien sleigh on this Pontic shore--must be explained and accounted for, or this public's
heart will burst with unsatisfied curiosity. If it be Buck Davis, with the white mare that
he traded his colt for, and the practically new sleigh-robe that he bought at the Sewell auction,
why does Buck Davis, who lives on the river flats, cross our hills, unless Murder Hollow be
blockaded with snow, or unless he has turkeys for sale? But Buck Davis with turkeys would surely
have stopped here, unless he were selling a large stock in town. A wail from the sacking at
the back of the sleigh tells the tale. It is a winter calf, and Buck Davis is going to sell
it for one dollar to the Boston Market where it will be turned into potted chicken. This leaves
the mystery of his change of route unexplained. After two days' sitting on tenter-hooks it
is discovered, obliquely, that Buck went to pay a door-yard call on Orson Butler, who lives
on the saeter where the wind and the bald granite scaurs fight it out together. Kirk Demming
had brought Orson news of a fox at the back of Black Mountain, and Orson's eldest son, going
to Murder Hollow with wood for the new barn floor that the widow Amidon is laying down, told
Buck that he might as well come round to talk to his father about the pig. But old man Butler
meant fox-hunting from the first, and what he wanted to do was to borrow Buck's dog, who had
been duly brought over with the calf, and left on the mountain. No old man Butler did not go
hunting alone, but waited till Buck came back from town. Buck sold the calf for a dollar and
a quarter and not for seventy-five cents as was falsely asserted by interested parties. Then
the two went after the fox together. This much learned, everybody breathes freely, if life
has not been complicated in the meantime by more strange counter-marchings.

Five or six sleighs a day we can understand, if we know why they are abroad; but any metropolitan
rush of traffic disturbs and excites.

LETTERS TO THE FAMILY

1908

These letters appeared in newspapers during the spring of 1908, after a trip to Canada undertaken
in the autumn of 1907. They are now reprinted without alteration.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ROAD TO QUEBEC

(1907)

It must be hard for those who do not live there to realise the cross between canker and blight
that has settled on England for the last couple of years. The effects of it are felt throughout
the Empire, but at headquarters we taste the stuff in the very air, just as one tastes iodoform
in the cups and bread-and-butter of a hospital-tea. So far as one can come at things in the
present fog, every form of unfitness, general or specialised, born or created, during the last
generation has combined in one big trust--a majority of all the minorities--to play the game
of Government. Now that the game ceases to amuse, nine-tenths of the English who set these
folk in power are crying, 'If we had only known what they were going to do we should never
have voted for them!'

Yet, as the rest of the Empire perceived at the time, these men were always perfectly explicit
as to their emotions and intentions. They said first, and drove it home by large pictures,
that no possible advantage to the Empire outweighed the cruelty and injustice of charging the
British working man twopence halfpenny a week on some of his provisions. Incidentally they
explained, so that all Earth except England heard it, that the Army was wicked; much of the
Navy unnecessary; that half the population of one of the Colonies practised slavery, with torture,
for the sake of private gain, and that the mere name of Empire wearied and sickened them. On
these grounds they stood to save England; on these grounds they were elected, with what seemed
like clear orders to destroy the blood-stained fetish of Empire as soon as possible. The present
mellow condition of Ireland, Egypt, India, and South Africa is proof of their honesty and obedience.
Over and above this, their mere presence in office produced all along our lines the same moral
effect as the presence of an incompetent master in a classroom. Paper pellets, books, and ink
began to fly; desks were thumped; dirty pens were jabbed into those trying to work; rats and
mice were set free amid squeals of exaggerated fear; and, as usual, the least desirable characters
in the forms were loudest to profess noble sentiments, and most eloquent grief at being misjudged.
Still, the English are not happy, and the unrest and slackness increase.

On the other hand, which is to our advantage, the isolation of the unfit in one political party
has thrown up the extremists in what the Babu called 'all their naked cui bono.' These last
are after satisfying the two chief desires of primitive man by the very latest gadgets in scientific
legislation. But how to get free food, and free--shall we say--love? within the four corners
of an Act of Parliament without giving the game away too grossly, worries them a little. It
is easy enough to laugh at this, but we are all so knit together nowadays that a rot at what
is called 'headquarters' may spread like bubonic, with every steamer. I went across to Canada
the other day, for a few weeks, mainly to escape the Blight, and also to see what our Eldest
Sister was doing. Have you ever noticed that Canada has to deal in the lump with most of the
problems that afflict us others severally? For example, she has the Double-Language, Double-Law,
Double-Politics drawback in a worse form than South Africa, because, unlike our Dutch, her
French cannot well marry outside their religion, and they take their orders from Italy--less
central, sometimes, than Pretoria or Stellenbosch. She has, too, something of Australia's labour
fuss, minus Australia's isolation, but plus the open and secret influence of 'Labour' entrenched,
with arms, and high explosives on neighbouring soil. To complete the parallel, she keeps, tucked
away behind mountains, a trifle of land called British Columbia, which resembles New Zealand;
and New Zealanders who do not find much scope for young enterprise in their own country are
drifting up to British Columbia already.

Canada has in her time known calamity more serious than floods, frost, drought, and fire--and
has macadamized some stretches of her road toward nationhood with the broken hearts of two
generations. That is why one can discuss with Canadians of the old stock matters which an Australian
or New Zealander could no more understand than a wealthy child understands death. Truly we
are an odd Family! Australia and New Zealand (the Maori War not counted) got everything for
nothing. South Africa gave everything and got less than nothing. Canada has given and taken
all along the line for nigh on three hundred years, and in some respects is the wisest, as
she should be the happiest, of us all. She seems to be curiously unconscious of her position
in the Empire, perhaps because she has lately been talked at, or down to, by her neighbours.
You know how at any gathering of our men from all quarters it is tacitly conceded that Canada
takes the lead in the Imperial game. To put it roughly, she saw the goal more than ten years
ago, and has been working the ball toward it ever since. That is why her inaction at the last
Imperial Conference made people who were interested in the play wonder why she, of all of us,
chose to brigade herself with General Botha and to block the forward rush. I, too, asked that
question of many. The answer was something like this: 'We saw that England wasn't taking anything
just then. Why should we have laid ourselves open to be snubbed worse than we were? We sat
still.' Quite reasonable--almost too convincing. There was really no need that Canada should
have done other than she did--except that she was the Eldest Sister, and more was expected
of her. She is a little too modest. The passengers were nearly all unmixed Canadian, mostly
born in the Maritime Provinces, where their fathers speak of 'Canada' as Sussex speaks of 'England,'
but scattered about their businesses throughout the wide Dominion. They were at ease, too,
among themselves, with that pleasant intimacy that stamps every branch of Our Family and every
boat that it uses on its homeward way. A Cape liner is all the sub-Continent from the Equator
to Simon's Town; an Orient boat is Australasian throughout, and a C.P.R. steamer cannot be
confused with anything except Canada. It is a pity one may not be born in four places at once,
and then one would understand the half-tones and asides, and the allusions of all our Family
life without waste of precious time. These big men, smoking in the drizzle, had hope in their
eyes, belief in their tongues, and strength in their hearts. I used to think miserably of other
boats at the South end of this ocean--a quarter full of people deprived of these things. A
young man kindly explained to me how Canada had suffered through what he called 'the Imperial
connection'; how she had been diversely bedevilled by English statesmen for political reasons.
He did not know his luck, nor would he believe me when I tried to point it out; but a nice
man in a plaid (who knew South Africa) lurched round the corner and fell on him with facts
and imagery which astonished the patriotic young mind. The plaid finished his outburst with
the uncontradicted statement that the English were mad. All our talks ended on that note.

It was an experience to move in the midst of a new contempt. One understands and accepts the
bitter scorn of the Dutch, the hopeless anger of one's own race in South Africa is also part
of the burden; but the Canadian's profound, sometimes humorous, often bewildered, always polite
contempt of the England of to-day cuts a little. You see, that late unfashionable war[3] was
very real to Canada. She sent several men to it, and a thinly-populated country is apt to miss
her dead more than a crowded one. When, from her point of view, they have died for no conceivable
advantage, moral or material, her business instincts, or it may be mere animal love of her
children, cause her to remember and resent quite a long time after the thing should be decently
forgotten. I was shocked at the vehemence with which some men (and women) spoke of the affair.
Some of them went so far as to discuss--on the ship and elsewhere--whether England would stay
in the Family or whether, as some eminent statesman was said to have asserted in private talk,
she would cut the painter to save expense. One man argued, without any heat, that she would
not so much break out of the Empire in one flurry, as politically vend her children one by
one to the nearest Power that threatened her comfort; the sale of each case to be preceded
by a steady blast of abuse of the chosen victim. He quoted--really these people have viciously
long memories!--the five-year campaign of abuse against South Africans as a precedent and a
warning.

[Footnote 3: Boer 'war' of 1899-1902.]

Our Tobacco Parliament next set itself to consider by what means, if this happened, Canada
could keep her identity unsubmerged; and that led to one of the most curious talks I have ever
heard. It seemed to be decided that she might--just might--pull through by the skin of her
teeth as a nation--if (but this was doubtful) England did not help others to hammer her. Now,
twenty years ago one would not have heard any of this sort of thing. If it sounds a little
mad, remember that the Mother Country was throughout considered as a lady in violent hysterics.

Just at the end of the talk one of our twelve or thirteen hundred steerage-passengers leaped
overboard, ulstered and booted, into a confused and bitter cold sea. Every horror in the world
has its fitting ritual. For the fifth time--and four times in just such weather--I heard the
screw stop; saw our wake curve like a whiplash as the great township wrenched herself round;
the lifeboat's crew hurry to the boat-deck; the bare-headed officer race up the shrouds and
look for any sign of the poor head that had valued itself so lightly. A boat amid waves can
see nothing. There was nothing to see from the first. We waited and quartered the ground back
and forth for a long hour, while the rain fell and the seas slapped along our sides, and the
steam fluttered drearily through the escapes. Then we went ahead.

The St. Lawrence on the last day of the voyage played up nobly. The maples along its banks
had turned--blood red and splendid as the banners of lost youth. Even the oak is not more of
a national tree than the maple, and the sight of its welcome made the folks aboard still more
happy. A dry wind brought along all the clean smell of their Continent-mixed odours of sawn
lumber, virgin earth, and wood-smoke; and they snuffed it, and their eyes softened as they,
identified point after point along their own beloved River--places where they played and fished
and amused themselves in holiday time. It must be pleasant to have a country of one's very
own to show off. Understand, they did not in any way boast, shout, squeak, or exclaim, these
even-voiced returned men and women. They were simply and unfeignedly glad to see home again,
and they said: 'Isn't it lovely? Don't you think it's beautiful? We love it.'

At Quebec there is a sort of place, much infested by locomotives, like a coal-chute, whence
rise the heights that Wolfe's men scaled on their way to the Plains of Abraham. Perhaps of
all the tide-marks in all our lands the affair of Quebec touches the heart and the eye more
nearly than any other. Everything meets there; France, the jealous partner of England's glory
by land and sea for eight hundred years; England, bewildered as usual, but for a wonder not
openly opposing Pitt, who knew; those other people, destined to break from England as soon
as the French peril was removed; Montcalm himself, doomed and resolute; Wolfe, the inevitable
trained workman appointed for the finish; and somewhere in the background one James Cook, master
of H.M.S. Mercury, making beautiful and delicate charts of the St. Lawrence River.

For these reasons the Plains of Abraham are crowned with all sorts of beautiful things--including
a jail and a factory. Montcalm's left wing is marked by the jail, and Wolfe's right by the
factory. There is, happily, now a movement on foot to abolish these adornments and turn the
battle-field and its surroundings into a park, which by nature and association would be one
of the most beautiful in our world.

Yet, in spite of jails on the one side and convents on the other and the thin black wreck of
the Quebec Railway Bridge, lying like a dumped car-load of tin cans in the river, the Eastern
Gate to Canada is noble with a dignity beyond words. We saw it very early, when the under sides
of the clouds turned chilly pink over a high-piled, brooding, dusky-purple city. Just at the
point of dawn, what looked like the Sultan Harun-al-Raschid's own private shallop, all spangled
with coloured lights, stole across the iron-grey water, and disappeared into the darkness of
a slip. She came out again in three minutes, but the full day had come too; so she snapped
off her masthead, steering and cabin electrics, and turned into a dingy white ferryboat, full
of cold passengers. I spoke to a Canadian about her. 'Why, she's the old So-and-So, to Port
Levis,' he answered, wondering as the Cockney wonders when a stranger stares at an Inner Circle
train. This was his Inner Circle--the Zion where he was all at ease. He drew my attention to
stately city and stately river with the same tranquil pride that we each feel when the visitor
steps across our own threshold, whether that be Southampton Water on a grey, wavy morning;
Sydney Harbour with a regatta in full swing; or Table Mountain, radiant and new-washed after
the Christmas rains. He had, quite rightly, felt personally responsible for the weather, and
every flaming stretch of maple since we had entered the river. (The North-wester in these parts
is equivalent to the South-easter elsewhere, and may impress a guest unfavourably.)

Then the autumn sun rose, and the man smiled. Personally and politically he said he loathed
the city--but it was his.

'Well,' he asked at last, 'what do you think? Not so bad?'

'Oh no. Not at all so bad,' I answered; and it wasn't till much later that I realised that
we had exchanged the countersign which runs clear round the Empire.

A PEOPLE AT HOME

An up-country proverb says, 'She was bidden to the wedding and set down to grind corn.' The
same fate, reversed, overtook me on my little excursion. There is a crafty network of organisations
of business men called Canadian Clubs. They catch people who look interesting, assemble their
members during the mid-day lunch-hour, and, tying the victim to a steak, bid him discourse
on anything that he thinks he knows. The idea might be copied elsewhere, since it takes men
out of themselves to listen to matters not otherwise coming under their notice and, at the
same time, does not hamper their work. It is safely short, too. The whole affair cannot exceed
an hour, of which the lunch fills half. The Clubs print their speeches annually, and one gets
cross-sections of many interesting questions--from practical forestry to State mints--all set
out by experts.

Not being an expert, the experience, to me, was very like hard work. Till then I had thought
speech-making was a sort of conversational whist, that any one could cut in at it. I perceive
now that it is an Art of conventions remote from anything that comes out of an inkpot, and
of colours hard to control. The Canadians seem to like listening to speeches, and, though this
is by no means a national vice, they make good oratory on occasion. You know the old belief
that the white man on brown, red, or black lands, will throw back in manner and instinct to
the type originally bred there? Thus, a speech in the taal should carry the deep roll, the
direct belly-appeal, the reiterated, cunning arguments, and the few simple metaphors of the
prince of commercial orators, the Bantu. A New Zealander is said to speak from his diaphragm,
hands clenched at the sides, as the old Maoris used. What we know of first-class Australian
oratory shows us the same alertness, swift flight, and clean delivery as a thrown boomerang.
I had half expected in Canadian speeches some survival of the Redskin's elaborate appeal to
Suns, Moons, and Mountains--touches of grandiosity and ceremonial invocations. But nothing
that I heard was referable to any primitive stock. There was a dignity, a restraint, and, above
all, a weight in it, rather curious when one thinks of the influences to which the land lies
open. Red it was not; French it was not; but a thing as much by itself as the speakers.

So with the Canadian's few gestures and the bearing of his body. During the (Boer) war one
watched the contingents from every point of view, and, most likely, drew wrong inferences.
It struck me then that the Canadian, even when tired, slacked off less than the men from the
hot countries, and while resting did not lie on his back or his belly, but rather on his side,
a leg doubled under him, ready to rise in one surge.

This time while I watched assemblies seated, men in hotels and passers-by, I fancied that he
kept this habit of semi-tenseness at home among his own; that it was the complement of the
man's still countenance, and his even, lowered voice. Looking at their footmarks on the ground
they seem to throw an almost straight track, neither splayed nor in-toed, and to set their
feet down with a gentle forward pressure, rather like the Australian's stealthy footfall. Talking
among themselves, or waiting for friends, they did not drum with their fingers, fiddle with
their feet, or feel the hair on their faces. These things seem trivial enough, but when breeds
are in the making everything is worth while. A man told me once--but I never tried the experiment--that
each of our Four Races light and handle fire in their own way.

Small wonder we differ! Here is a people with no people at their backs, driving the great world-plough
which wins the world's bread up and up over the shoulder of the world--a spectacle, as it might
be, out of some tremendous Norse legend. North of them lies Niflheim's enduring cold, with
the flick and crackle of the Aurora for Bifrost Bridge that Odin and the Aesir visited. These
people also go north year by year, and drag audacious railways with them. Sometimes they burst
into good wheat or timber land, sometimes into mines of treasure, and all the North is foil
of voices--as South Africa was once--telling discoveries and making prophecies.

When their winter comes, over the greater part of this country outside the cities they must
sit still, and eat and drink as the Aesir did. In summer they cram twelve months' work into
six, because between such and such dates certain far rivers will shut, and, later, certain
others, till, at last, even the Great Eastern Gate at Quebec locks, and men must go in and
out by the side-doors at Halifax and St. John. These are conditions that make for extreme boldness,
but not for extravagant boastings.

The maples tell when it is time to finish, and all work in hand is regulated by their warning
signal. Some jobs can be put through before winter; others must be laid aside ready to jump
forward without a lost minute in spring. Thus, from Quebec to Calgary a note of drive--not
hustle, but drive and finish-up--hummed like the steam-threshers on the still, autumn air.

Hunters and sportsmen were coming in from the North; prospectors with them, their faces foil
of mystery, their pockets full of samples, like prospectors the world over. They had already
been wearing wolf and coon skin coats. In the great cities which work the year round, carriage--shops
exhibited one or two seductive nickel-plated sledges, as a hint; for the sleigh is 'the chariot
at hand here of Love.' In the country the farmhouses were stacking up their wood-piles within
reach of the kitchen door, and taking down the fly-screens, (One leaves these on, as a rule,
till the double windows are brought up from the cellar, and one has to hunt all over the house
for missing screws.) Sometimes one saw a few flashing lengths of new stovepipe in a backyard,
and pitied the owner. There is no humour in the old, bitter-true stovepipe jests of the comic
papers.

But the railways--the wonderful railways--told the winter's tale most emphatically. The thirty-ton
coal cars were moving over three thousand miles of track. They grunted and lurched against
each other in the switch-yards, or thumped past statelily at midnight on their way to provident
housekeepers of the prairie towns. It was not a clear way either; for the bacon, the lard,
the apples, the butter, and the cheese, in beautiful whitewood barrels, were rolling eastwards
toward the steamers before the wheat should descend on them. That is the fifth act of the great
Year-Play for which the stage must be cleared. On scores of congested sidings lay huge girders,
rolled beams, limbs, and boxes of rivets, once intended for the late Quebec Bridge--now so
much mere obstruction--and the victuals had to pick their way through 'em; and behind the victuals
was the lumber--clean wood out of the mountains--logs, planks, clapboards, and laths, for which
we pay such sinful prices in England--all seeking the sea. There was housing, food, and fuel
for millions, on wheels together, and never a grain yet shifted of the real staple which men
for five hundred miles were threshing out in heaps as high as fifty-pound villas.

Add to this, that the railways were concerned for their own new developments--double-trackings,
loops, cutoffs, taps, and feeder lines, and great swoops out into untouched lands soon to be
filled with men. So the construction, ballast, and material trains, the grading machines, the
wrecking cars with their camel-like sneering cranes--the whole plant of a new civilisation--had
to find room somewhere in the general rally before Nature cried, 'Lay off!'

Does any one remember that joyful strong confidence after the war, when it seemed that, at
last, South Africa was to be developed--when men laid out railways, and gave orders for engines,
and fresh rolling-stock, and labour, and believed gloriously in the future? It is true the
hope was murdered afterward, but--multiply that good hour by a thousand, and you will have
some idea of how it feels to be in Canada--a place which even an 'Imperial' Government cannot
kill. I had the luck to be shown some things from the inside--to listen to the details of works
projected; the record of works done. Above all, I saw what had actually been achieved in the
fifteen years since I had last come that way. One advantage of a new land is that it makes
you feel older than Time. I met cities where there had been nothing--literally, absolutely
nothing, except, as the fairy tales say, 'the birds crying, and the grass waving in the wind.'
Villages and hamlets had grown to great towns, and the great towns themselves had trebled and
quadrupled. And the railways rubbed their hands and cried, like the Afrites of old, 'Shall
we make a city where no city is; or render flourishing a city that is dasolate?' They do it
too, while, across the water, gentlemen, never forced to suffer one day's physical discomfort
in all their lives, pipe up and say, 'How grossly materialistic!'

I wonder sometimes whether any eminent novelist, philosopher, dramatist, or divine of to-day
has to exercise half the pure imagination, not to mention insight, endurance, and self-restraint,
which is accepted without comment in what is called 'the material exploitation' of a new country.
Take only the question of creating a new city at the junction of two lines--all three in the
air. The mere drama of it, the play of the human virtues, would fill a book. And when the work
is finished, when the city is, when the new lines embrace a new belt of farms, and the tide
of the Wheat has rolled North another unexpected degree, the men who did it break off, without
compliments, to repeat the joke elsewhere.

I had some talk with a youngish man whose business it was to train avalanches to jump clear
of his section of the track. Thor went to Jotunheim only once or twice, and he had his useful
hammer Miolnr with him. This Thor lived in Jotunheim among the green-ice-crowned peaks of the
Selkirks--where if you disturb the giants at certain seasons of the year, by making noises,
they will sit upon you and all your fine emotions. So Thor watches them glaring under the May
sun, or dull and doubly dangerous beneath the spring rains. He wards off their strokes with
enormous brattices of wood, wing-walls of logs bolted together, and such other contraptions
as experience teaches. He bears the giants no malice; they do their work, he his. What bothers
him a little is that the wind of their blows sometimes rips pines out of the opposite hill-sides--explodes,
as it were, a whole valley. He thinks, however, he can fix things so as to split large avalanches
into little ones.

Another man, to whom I did not talk, sticks in my memory. He had for years and years inspected
trains at the head of a heavyish grade in the mountains--though not half so steep as the Hex[4]--where
all brakes are jammed home, and the cars slither warily for ten miles. Tire-troubles there
would be inconvenient, so he, as the best man, is given the heaviest job--monotony and responsibility
combined. He did me the honour of wanting to speak to me, but first he inspected his train--on
all fours with a hammer. By the time he was satisfied of the integrity of the underpinnings
it was time for us to go; and all that I got was a friendly wave of the hand--a master craftsman's
sign, you might call it.

[Footnote 4: Hex River, South Africa.]

Canada seems full of this class of materialist.

Which reminds me that the other day I saw the Lady herself in the shape of a tall woman of
twenty-five or six, waiting for her tram on a street corner. She wore her almost flaxen-gold
hair waved, and parted low on the forehead, beneath a black astrachan toque, with a red enamel
maple-leaf hatpin in one side of it. This was the one touch of colour except the flicker of
a buckle on the shoe. The dark, tailor-made dress had no trinkets or attachments, but fitted
perfectly. She stood for perhaps a minute without any movement, both hands--right bare, left
gloved--hanging naturally at her sides, the very fingers still, the weight of the superb body
carried evenly on both feet, and the profile, which was that of Gudrun or Aslauga, thrown out
against a dark stone column. What struck me most, next to the grave, tranquil eyes, was her
slow, unhurried breathing in the hurry about her. She was evidently a regular fare, for when
her tram stopped she smiled at the lucky conductor; and the last I saw of her was a flash of
the sun on the red maple-leaf, the full face still lighted by that smile, and her hair very
pale gold against the dead black fur. But the power of the mouth, the wisdom of the brow, the
human comprehension of the eyes, and the outstriking vitality of the creature remained. That
is how I would have my country drawn, were I a Canadian--and hung in Ottawa Parliament House,
for the discouragement of prevaricators.

CITIES AND SPACES

What would you do with a magic carpet if one were lent you? I ask because for a month we had
a private car of our very own--a trifling affair less than seventy foot long and thirty ton
weight. 'You may find her useful,' said the donor casually, 'to knock about the country. Hitch
on to any train you choose and stop off where you choose.'

So she bore us over the C.P.R. from the Atlantic to the Pacific and back, and when we had no
more need of her, vanished like the mango tree after the trick.

A private car, though many books have been written in it, is hardly the best place from which
to study a country, unless it happen that you have kept house and seen the seasons round under
normal conditions on the same continent. Then you know how the cars look from the houses; which
is not in the least as the houses look from the cars. Then, the very porter's brush in its
nickel clip, the long cathedral-like aisle between the well-known green seats, the toll of
the bell and the deep organ-like note of the engine wake up memories; and every sight, smell,
and sound outside are like old friends remembering old days together. A piano-top buggy on
a muddy, board-sidewalked street, all cut up by the narrow tires; the shingling at the corner
of a veranda on a new-built house; a broken snake-fence girdling an old pasture of mulleins
and skull-headed boulders; a wisp of Virginia creeper dying splendidly on the edge of a patch
of corn; half a dozen panels of snow-fence above a cutting, or even a shameless patent-medicine
advertisement, yellow on the black of a tobacco-barn, can make the heart thump and the eyes
fill if the beholder have only touched the life of which they are part. What must they mean
to the native-born? There was a prairie-bred girl on the train, coming back after a year on
the Continent, for whom the pine-belted hills, with real mountains behind, the solemn loops
of the river, and the intimate friendly farm had nothing to tell.

'You can do these landscapes better in Italy,' she explained, and, with the indescribable gesture
of plains folk stifled in broken ground, 'I want to push these hills away and get into the
open again! I'm Winnipeg.'

She would have understood that Hanover Road schoolmistress, back from a visit to Cape Town,
whom I once saw drive off into thirty miles of mirage almost shouting, 'Thank God, here's something
like home at last.'

Other people ricochetted from side to side of the car, reviving this, rediscovering that, anticipating
t'other thing, which, sure enough, slid round the next curve to meet them, caring nothing if
all the world knew they were home again; and the newly arrived Englishman with his large wooden
packing-cases marked 'Settlers' Effects' had no more part in the show than a new boy his first
day at school. But two years in Canada and one run home will make him free of the Brotherhood
in Canada as it does anywhere else. He may grumble at certain aspects of the life, lament certain
richnesses only to be found in England, but as surely as he grumbles so surely he returns to
the big skies, and the big chances. The failures are those who complain that the land 'does
not know a gentleman when it sees him.' They are quite right. The land suspends all judgment
on all men till it has seen them work. Thereafter as may be; but work they must because there
is a very great deal to be done.

Unluckily the railroads which made the country are bringing in persons who are particular as
to the nature and amenities of their work, and if so be they do not find precisely what they
are looking for, they complain in print which makes all men seem equal.

The special joy of our trip lay in having travelled the line when it was new and, like the
Canada of those days, not much believed in, when all the high and important officials, whose
little fingers unhooked cars, were also small and disregarded. To-day, things, men, and cities
were different, and the story of the line mixed itself up with the story of the country, the
while the car-wheels clicked out, 'John Kino--John Kino! Nagasaki, Yokohama, Hakodate, Heh!'
for we were following in the wake of the Imperial Limited, all full of Hongkong and Treaty
Ports men. There were old, known, and wonderfully grown cities to be looked at before we could
get away to the new work out west, and, 'What d'you think of this building and that suburb?'
they said, imperiously. 'Come out and see what has been done in this generation.'

The impact of a Continent is rather overwhelming till you remind yourself that it is no more
than your own joy and love and pride in your own patch of garden written a little large over
a few more acres. Again, as always, it was the dignity of the cities that impressed--an austere
Northern dignity of outline, grouping, and perspective, aloof from the rush of traffic in the
streets. Montreal, of the black-frocked priests and the French notices, had it; and Ottawa,
of the grey stone palaces and the St. Petersburg-like shining water-frontages; and Toronto,
consumingly commercial, carried the same power in the same repose. Men are always building
better than they know, and perhaps this steadfast architecture is waiting for the race when
their first flurry of newly-realised expansion shall have spent itself, and the present hurrah's-nest
of telephone poles in the streets shall have been abolished. There are strong objections to
any non-fusible, bi-lingual community within a nation, but however much the French are made
to hang back in the work of development, their withdrawn and unconcerned cathedrals, schools,
and convents, and one aspect of the spirit that breathes from them, make for good. Says young
Canada: 'There are millions of dollars' worth of church property in the cities which aren't
allowed to be taxed.' On the other hand, the Catholic schools and universities, though they
are reported to keep up the old medieval mistrust of Greek, teach the classics as lovingly,
tenderly, and intimately as the old Church has always taught them. After all, it must be worth
something to say your prayers in a dialect of the tongue that Virgil handled; and a certain
touch of insolence, more magnificent and more ancient than the insolence of present materialism,
makes a good blend in a new land.

I had the good fortune to see the cities through the eyes of an Englishman out for the first
time. 'Have you been to the Bank?' he cried. 'I've never seen anything like it!' 'What's the
matter with the Bank?' I asked: for the financial situation across the Border was at that moment
more than usual picturesque. 'It's wonderful!' said he; 'marble pillars--acres of mosaic--steel
grilles--'might be a cathedral. No one ever told me.' 'I shouldn't worry over a Bank that pays
its depositors,' I replied soothingly. 'There are several like it in Ottawa and Toronto.' Next
he ran across some pictures in some palaces, and was downright angry because no one had told
him that there were five priceless private galleries in one city. 'Look here!' he explained.
'I've been seeing Corots, and Greuzes, and Gainsboroughs, and a Holbein, and--and hundreds
of really splendid pictures!' 'Why shouldn't you?' I said. 'They've given up painting their
lodges with vermilion hereabouts.' 'Yes, but what I mean is, have you seen the equipment of
their schools and colleges--desks, libraries, and lavatories? It's miles ahead of anything
we have and--no one ever told me.' 'What was the good of telling? You wouldn't have believed.
There's a building in one of the cities, on the lines of the Sheldonian, but better, and if
you go as far as Winnipeg, you'll see the finest hotel in all the world.'

'Nonsense!' he said. 'You're pulling my leg! Winnipeg's a prairie-town.'

I left him still lamenting--about a Club and a Gymnasium this time--that no one had ever told
him about; and still doubting all that he had heard of Wonders to come.

If we could only manacle four hundred Members of Parliament, like the Chinese in the election
cartoons, and walk them round the Empire, what an all-comprehending little Empire we should
be when the survivors got home! 

In a book written in Venetian dialect by the recorder Boschini, have copied some verses, where
is concerned, who, being Salvator Rosa in Rome, talking to Velazquez asked I thought of Raphael
of Urbino, to which he replied, "that he did not like .-- Well, here - answered Italian, do not think
so, and we'll give you the crown. " To which I replied Velázquez: - "Where is good and beautiful is in
Venice: I give first place to the brush Venetian and who carries the flag is Tiziano [62].
"

Velázquez reluctantly admitting that, after his first trip studied and copied Raphael, bluntly
declared that he did not like anything, as pointed out by one of writers who chronicle the event,
although he does not inspire great enthusiasm how he feels color, it would have to admire the
immaculate purity of drawing, composing and expertise all other excellences it was in his time,
and still is, regarded as one of the world's greatest artists. As misguided Bocherini not walk,
was to say that he was more pleased with Titian Velázquez, which is known, not because he deliberately imitated,
but because he saw that even works of poetry by giving more space, also sought to reflect life with
powerful intensity.

The contemplation of the wonderful ancient and modern works gathered in Rome, dealing with Distinguished
artists, negotiations and proceedings followed to bring to Spain fresco and purchase the paintings
that Philip IV had been charged, were ample reasons to Velazquez was in the city of the Popes occupied
much to his taste, but the King was beginning to get impatient, having sent for him, for the
traces, which it repeatedly without the artist hasten to obey. So it seems that eager to visit
Paris, called passport return to France. SM would not have it, and to avoid the delay wrote
the following letter, which shows very clearly know the quiet Andalusian Seville immortal. Said
Philip IV and his ambassador in Rome, the Duke of Infantry:

"I saw
your letter of November 6 last year, when I realize what was going
Velázquez at work, as his care, and they know his phlegm, it is well
that ye not execute the arrest in that court, but later the conclusion
of the work and partencia far as possible, and so that by late May
or early June can make your passage to these realms, as it is high
if it sent orders arrangement dello's work, and so what you order,
and that in order to this we asistáis far as possible, that for ease
dello shipping to send the Count of Onate, to assist you with the
money has stopped sending him, as it may need, because you have no
excuse or pretext be obliged to defer, and because together we have
commanded that I bring to this court Peter of Cortona, painter of
the fresco, and to adjust the way it had to be, draws upon our authority.

We also request that knowing the state has settled who comes to serve me, because I also send
a command to the Count of Oñate attend so that this as necessary, which take effect solicitéis,
lack of people in here of his ministry, and that either have to make your journey by sea, you
are offered also the way in which they make their passage, because shipping to send Velázquez
not do it for land, so it could be stopped, and more with its natural, and so agree with this
budget is understood, I have commissioned you to have your partencia, and in order to it must
find in you the assistance that is necessary for compliance, as I promise of the attention with
which you act on what runs through your care. Madrid, February 1650. "[63].

Palomino said that "compliance with the timeliness with which he always obeyed the orders of His
Majesty, and even fought against large storms reached the port of Barcelona for the month of
June, 1651 ', from which it follows that even took sixteen months to return to Spain.

The impatience with which the King hoped would subside from fixed to see the acquisitions during
the journey had made on his own, as well as many molds or female, as then was said to empty classical
statues, paintings brought some outstanding merit: the beautiful picture of Venus and Adonis [64],
Paul Veronese, and purification of the virgins Midianites [65], the composition and state clearly
be oval for a roof, and the sketch Paradise [66], implemented with the same purpose and intended
for hall of the Great Council of Venice, both works of Tintoretto. Only these paintings have
chosen the purest taste test the while predilection for the painters
of that republic.

The following year the space vacated palace chamberlain, sought by
several suitors favored by different characters that made up the Bure
the expressing Velázquez also requested in his memorial to the King
"who has many years dealing with the ornament and composure VM room
with care and skill that a VM is satisfied, and then he begs VM thanks
for this occupation, it is so tight to his genius and occupation "[67].

The

King was chosen by Velázquez. The fact of having made this appointment after to return the
painter of Italy has led some to believe that it rewarded him spontaneously Felipe IV as well on
that occasion had served, but if this were true, no had taken eight months to award. In addition,
Velazquez asked the square. Among the applicants it included the head of the wax, more aid from
the furred and another employee of the royal house that could not count, so that the favor that
was the subject fell Velázquez to prefer others who, unable to demonstrate their craft artistic
taste had not of employment to serve as a painter who learned his powers recently joined admiring
the luxury and poise of Italian palaces.

[Image: Morritt COLLECTION

Venus at her Mirror]

The quartermaster in charge of forcing the author of "The jump into something as important and issue
orders to clean the courtyards and corridors, "remove a guard black that was close to the Queen's
Chamber ", to report on how far the powers jack-aid of the furred and toilet boys, and precede
the King when he went to Brown, El Escorial and Aranjuez. Velazquez, however, had to seek employment
judging 'Adjusted to his genius and occupation. "

To avoid interruption after the listing of the pictures that made our great painter, from for
the second time he returned from Italy until his last days, should address an issue now have
been concerned that Spanish scholars. I mean the memory called Velázquez.

Palomino

wrote that "in the year of 1656 sent to Mr SM Diego Velázquez would
lead to San Lorenzo Real forty-one original paintings, some of them
from the auction of the King of England Charles Stuart, the first
of that name, others brought Velázquez and others that gave SM D.
García de Avellaneda y Haro, Conde de Castrillo, who had been Viceroy
of Naples, and time was president of the Council of Castile, of which
Velazquez made a description and Memory, which gives notice of its
qualities, stories and authors, and the sites were placed, to manifest
a. SM, with such elegance and property described therein his erudition
and vast knowledge of art, because they are so excellent that he could
only achieve the deserved praise.

"

No doubt, as this, that Velázquez, to comply with the order of the King, made a written consigning
I thought of the paintings and the place where they were placed, so that there Memory and was prepared
to show it SM Palomino After one, even Cean Bermudez, mentioned the paper until a few years ago
scholar Adolfo de Castro presented to the Academy Spanish book which no one had said a word bibliophile,
printed, apparently with the exclusive purpose of preserving for
posterity the great painter that letter.

We tried nothing less than the memory of Velázquez published by his pupil Juan de Alfaro [68].
The Academy included content in his own memoirs [69] and Castro wrote for the occasion a prologue
in which he realized that the monk Jerome Fray Francisco de los Santos,
in Brief description of the San Lorenzo el Real, published in 1657,
had plagiarized from this report, Palomino pointed to numerous paragraphs,
where those paintings are described, followed critical considerations.

As some of these exceed discretion and artistic sense to those of that nature wrote the monk, and
as well taken in the same book, without admitting, pieces of the history of San Jerónimo, P. Sigüenza,
gave himself up for sure and certain that the gift de Castro to the Academy was Velázquez
memory loss. Just put Villamil Crusade in doubt, but artists and writers were enthusiastic about
the idea of ​​tasting assessments and judgments as Velázquez in its jurisdiction. Even in
this resonated abroad rejoicing, and Baron Davillier luxuriously reprinted the book edited and translated
by Alfaro French, putting forward a Velazquez portrait etched by Fortuny [70].

Finally, Menéndez Pelayo in his admirable history of aesthetic ideas
in Spain, accepted also authenticity.

But then initiated a reverse flow. Justi, relying a thorough examination, denied that the report may
be de Velázquez, alleges, among other reasons, unique in that Alfaro, on the cover of their booklet,
says that Velazquez was a knight knight of Santiago in 1658, when it was not until the following
year, and also played positions in the palace, in the exercise had ceased to be quartermaster:
also states that judgments contained in that letter before are devout person's own artist. Beruete,
based primarily on this same consideration, argues that the findings in the statement are unworthy
of an artist the likes of Velázquez, who does not supposed author even inspiring those paragraphs.
Even the Menéndez Pelayo, after examining the copy given by Castro to the Academy, in view of the
guys that is printed and the lack of license, improper time thing it's supposed fact may be
suspected is an illusion of bibliomaniac similar to those attributed to the Earl of Saceda, which
seems made something with Nebrija Grammar and the Dialogues of Pedro Mejía.

As Palomino to write the life of Velázquez declares that it is the main thing John de Alfaro, and then
at the latter says that "left in his plundering some books and papers very courtiers, among them
some notes on the life of Velázquez, his teacher, "and as In addition, Fray Francisco de los
Santos was not a paragon of literary integrity, was excusable that is easily believed in the authenticity
of the booklet, but these considerations lose all his strength to think for delivery in the monastery
of pictures that were already known, Velázquez did not need to write a critical study: it was
enough for the occasion a list explain to the men what they received,
and which knew the King who had been their orders fulfilled.

The painted by Velazquez, from the turn of the second trip to Italy, already bears the personal
stamp, unmistakable, revealing the full development of his native powers, and the greatest of
experience, skill and expertise he acquired over the years.

In this period of his life are two bust portraits of Philip IV, one in the National Gallery London
in a black suit with gold embroidery, and Madrid [71] where the doublet, also black this orphan
ornaments, without further notice on it clearly highlight the white canvas smooth and stiff
the flange that separates the face. The King's fifty years, and perhaps even pass them: the face is
withered, flabby flesh, the eyes have lost their vividness: the face we saw in the great equestrian
portrait appears before the aged, tired, sad, as if it will mark not only over time, but the
bitter sediment in the soul had left him lost so much land and so many glories overshadowed: already
in the old sad and disappointed that hearing himself called the great
had to know it was a lie.

The cold blue eyes as incurable melancholy tempered by the weak, no energy to fuel the lymphatic
and flabby face where the jaw typical root out feels more pronounced than ever and full lips,
sexy, still very red, betray appetite which was the master of your body. That face, comically
serious, serious without Majesty is one of those pieces in which the painter, both in reality
made by copying, As for leaving logically deduce the imagination, touch the limits of what can
get the art. Velázquez did more than reproduce what he saw, he was not attributable purpose unrelated
to the ideas of his time, but noted with such insight, his eyes squinted so deep, that formed
a portrait process.

In no time the King must have had so long before, because if you notice that some lines are surprised
to suddenly hitting the first attempt, others seem corrected, found after halting trials, but
resulting in a set in which are mixed knowledge and ease, the innate
ability and the fruit of experience.

He has not missed, however, who cast doubt on the authenticity of this portrait: Armstrong
says that he looks like a painted copy, no doubt, the study of the teacher, and whosoever
you think to ask: by whom? Neither Mazo, or Rici or Carreño, were capable of such mastery.

A Queen Mariana of Austria Velázquez painted four times. First, in the canvas appears today
in the Louvre, [72] after one that is in the Imperial Gallery of Vienna [73] and then in both
of Madrid, [74] where he stands with rich black dress laced with silver, huge wig of long
curls, white feather headdress, brutally imprisoned body the gossip and the left hand a white
handkerchief, towering over the voluminous flared skirt and rigid. The face is small, skinny,
expressionless, Entec, expressionless gaze no smile on your face: all hands are beautiful, thin,
aristocratic. Do not see it SM foot that was disrespectful. Just between these two portraits
difference that the various dimensions of the curtain that serves as background to the figure
but the number 1079, seems to be made later, as if repetition of the first and executed more
disengage and promptly.

The Infanta Margarita María, first fruit of the marriage of Philip
IV with tiesísima lady who just mentioned, is portrayed by Velázquez
in Vienna to two or three years, with rich red suit and silver [75]
and six or seven in a suit very similar to has on the painting Las
Meninas: [76] in the Louvre [77] of four or five, dressed in white
with black lace, and in Frankfurt at six or seven of gray and black,
being in all these images because we do not have the apocryphal, one
of the most sympathetic Velázquez plotted.

His face is gordinfloncillo, the yellowish-blond hair, cold air washout and stopped, but it is nice,
almost pretty, because it has the charm of innocence and candor, the children she triumphs in the
type of the breed is so young that have not yet purchased packaging which disfigures the ladies
of his lineage.

The galas are adorned with this form ugly and only tolerated by the harmonies of color and
wonder of implementing squandered Velazquez to paint those tissue, tulle, ribbons, bows, jewels
and feathers, rustling, shine and curl as if the moving air.

[Image: LOUVRE MUSEUM

The Infanta Margarita

FRAME. Braun, Clement & C ª]

One of the most beautiful pictures that belong to this period of life of the teacher is the cataloged
at the Museum with the number 1,084, and offers the particularity of being made head so far below
the rest of the figure. Don Pedro de Madrazo explains this double aspect of the execution, saying that
the sitter is Dona Maria Teresa of Austria's daughter Felipe IV,
from his first marriage, that Velázquez had painted the head before
taking the second trip to Italy, according to his way then, leaving
broken and that later, back, finish it in his later years, when it
comes to marriage of the Infanta to Louis XIV of France.

"That explains why - he says - a portrait executed in general with such freedom and sobriety
so wise and so it belongs to last and best time of Velázquez, representing themselves as a child
of ten years, which was already about twenty, when the great artist painted of the wonderful
and unique way. "
 That is one type.

A man told me the old tale of a crowd of Russian immigrants who at a big fire in a city 'verted
to the ancestral type, and blocked the streets yelling, 'Down with the Czar!' That is another
type. A few days later I was shown a wire stating that a community of Doukhobors--Russians
again--had, not for the first time, undressed themselves, and were fleeing up the track to
meet the Messiah before the snow fell. Police were pursuing them with warm underclothing, and
trains would please take care not to run over them.

So there you have three sort of steam-borne unfitness--soft, savage, and mad. There is a fourth
brand, which may be either home-grown or imported, but democracies do not recognise it, of
downright bad folk--grown, healthy men and women who honestly rejoice in doing evil. These
four classes acting together might conceivably produce a rather pernicious democracy; alien
hysteria, blood-craze, and the like, reinforcing local ignorance, sloth, and arrogance. For
example, I read a letter in a paper sympathising with these same Doukhobors. The writer knew
a community of excellent people in England (you see where the rot starts!) who lived barefoot,
paid no taxes, ate nuts, and were above marriage. They were a soulful folk, living pure lives.
The Doukhobors were also pure and soulful, entitled in a free country to live their own lives,
and not to be oppressed, etc. etc. (Imported soft, observe, playing up to Imported mad.) Meantime,
disgusted police were chasing the Doukhobors into flannels that they might live to produce
children fit to consort with the sons of the man who wrote that letter and the daughters of
the crowd that lost their heads at the fire.

'All of which,' men and women answered, 'we admit. But what can we do? We want people.' And
they showed vast and well-equipped schools, where the children of Slav immigrants are taught
English and the songs of Canada. 'When they grow up,' people said, 'you can't tell them from
Canadians.' It was a wonderful work. The teacher holds up pens, reels, and so forth, giving
the name in English; the children repeating Chinese fashion. Presently when they have enough
words they can bridge back to the knowledge they learned in their own country, so that a boy
of twelve, at, say, the end of a year, will produce a well-written English account of his journey
from Russia, how much his mother paid for food by the way, and where his father got his first
job. He will also lay his hand on his heart, and say, 'I--am--a--Canadian.' This gratifies
the Canadian, who naturally purrs over an emigrant owing everything to the land which adopted
him and set him on his feet. The Lady Bountiful of an English village takes the same interest
in a child she has helped on in the world. And the child repays by his gratitude and good behaviour?

Personally, one cannot care much for those who have renounced their own country. They may have
had good reason, but they have broken the rules of the game, and ought to be penalised instead
of adding to their score. Nor is it true, as men pretend, that a few full meals and fine clothes
obliterate all taint of alien instinct and reversion. A thousand years cannot be as yesterday
for mankind; and one has only to glance at the races across the Border to realise how in outlook,
manner, expression, and morale the South and South-east profoundly and fatally affects the
North and North-west. That was why the sight of the beady-eyed, muddy-skinned, aproned women,
with handkerchiefs on their heads and Oriental bundles in their hands, always distressed one.

'But why must you get this stuff?' I asked. 'You know it is not your equal, and it knows that
it is not your equal; and that is bad for you both. What is the matter with the English as
immigrants?'

The answers were explicit: 'Because the English do not work. Because we are sick of Remittance-men
and loafers sent out here. Because the English are rotten with Socialism. Because the English
don't fit with our life. They kick at our way of doing things. They are always telling us how
things are done in England. They carry frills! Don't you know the story of the Englishman who
lost his way and was found half-dead of thirst beside a river? When he was asked why he didn't
drink, he said, "How the deuce can I without a glass?"'

'But,' I argued over three thousand miles of country, 'all these are excellent reasons for
bringing in the Englishman. It is true that in his own country he is taught to shirk work,
because kind, silly people fall over each other to help and debauch and amuse him. Here, General
January will stiffen him up. Remittance-men are an affliction to every branch of the Family,
but your manners and morals can't be so tender as to suffer from a few thousand of them among
your six millions. As to the Englishman's Socialism, he is, by nature, the most unsocial animal
alive. What you call Socialism is his intellectual equivalent for Diabolo and Limerick competitions.
As to his criticisms, you surely wouldn't marry a woman who agreed with you in everything,
and you ought to choose your immigrants on the same lines. You admit that the Canadian is too
busy to kick at anything. The Englishman is a born kicker. ("Yes, he is all that," they said.)
He kicks on principle, and that is what makes for civilisation. So did your Englishman's instinct
about the glass. Every new country needs--vitally needs--one-half of one per cent of its population
trained to die of thirst rather than drink out of their hands. You are always talking of the
second generation of your Smyrniotes and Bessarabians. Think what the second generation of
the English are!'

They thought--quite visibly--but they did not much seem to relish it. There was a queer stringhalt
in their talk--a conversational shy across the road--when one touched on these subjects. After
a while I went to a Tribal Herald whom I could trust, and demanded of him point-blank where
the trouble really lay, and who was behind it.

'It is Labour,' he said. 'You had better leave it alone.'

LABOUR

One cannot leave a thing alone if it is thrust under the nose at every turn. I had not quitted
the Quebec steamer three minutes when I was asked point-blank: 'What do you think of the question
of Asiatic Exclusion which is Agitating our Community?'

The Second Sign-Post on the Great Main Road says: 'If a Community is agitated by a Question--inquire
politely after the health of the Agitator,' This I did, without success; and had to temporise
all across the Continent till I could find some one to help me to acceptable answers. The Question
appears to be confined to British Columbia. There, after a while, the men who had their own
reasons for not wishing to talk referred me to others who explained, and on the acutest understanding
that no names were to be published (it is sweet to see engineers afraid of being hoist by their
own petards) one got more or less at something like facts.

The Chinaman has always been in the habit of coming to British Columbia, where he makes, as
he does elsewhere, the finest servant in the world. No one, I was assured on all hands, objects
to the biddable Chinaman. He takes work which no white man in a new country will handle, and
when kicked by the mean white will not grossly retaliate. He has always paid for the privilege
of making his fortune on this wonderful coast, but with singular forethought and statesmanship,
the popular Will, some few years ago, decided to double the head-tax on his entry. Strange
as it may appear, the Chinaman now charges double for his services, and is scarce at that.
This is said to be one of the reasons why overworked white women die or go off their heads;
and why in new cities you can see blocks of flats being built to minimise the inconveniences
of housekeeping without help. The birth-rate will fall later in exact proportion to those flats.

Since the Russo-Japanese War the Japanese have taken to coming over to British Columbia. They
also do work which no white man will; such as hauling wet logs for lumber mills out of cold
water at from eight to ten shillings a day. They supply the service in hotels and dining-rooms
and keep small shops. The trouble with them is that they are just a little too good, and when
attacked defend themselves with asperity.

A fair sprinkling of Punjabis--ex-soldiers, Sikhs, Muzbis, and Jats--are coming in on the boats.
The plague at home seems to have made them restless, but I could not gather why so many of
them come from Shahpur, Phillour, and Jullundur way. These men do not, of course, offer for
house-service, but work in the lumber mills, and with the least little care and attention could
be made most valuable. Some one ought to tell them not to bring their old men with them, and
better arrangements should be made for their remitting money home to their villages. They are
not understood, of course; but they are not hated.

The objection is all against the Japanese. So far--except that they are said to have captured
the local fishing trade at Vancouver, precisely as the Malays control the Cape Town fish business--they
have not yet competed with the whites; but I was earnestly assured by many men that there was
danger of their lowering the standard of life and wages. The demand, therefore, in certain
quarters is that they go--absolutely and unconditionally. (You may have noticed that Democracies
are strong on the imperative mood.) An attempt was made to shift them shortly before I came
to Vancouver, but it was not very successful, because the Japanese barricaded their quarters
and flocked out, a broken bottle held by the neck in either hand, which they jabbed in the
faces of the demonstrators. It is, perhaps, easier to haze and hammer bewildered Hindus and
Tamils, as is being done across the Border, than to stampede the men of the Yalu and Liaoyang.[5]

[Footnote 5: Battles in the Russo-Japanese War.]

But when one began to ask questions one got lost in a maze of hints, reservations, and orations,
mostly delivered with constraint, as though the talkers were saying a piece learned by heart.
Here are some samples:--

A man penned me in a corner with a single heavily capitalised sentence. 'There is a General
Sentiment among Our People that the Japanese Must Go,' said he.

'Very good,' said I. 'How d'you propose to set about it?'

'That is nothing to us. There is a General Sentiment,' etc.

'Quite so. Sentiment is a beautiful thing, but what are you going to do?' He did not condescend
to particulars, but kept repeating the sentiment, which, as I promised, I record.

Another man was a little more explicit. 'We desire,' he said, 'to keep the Chinaman. But the
Japanese must go.'

'Then who takes their place? Isn't this rather a new country to pitch people out of?'

'We must develop our Resources slowly, sir--with an Eye to the Interests of our Children. We
must preserve the Continent for Races which will assimilate with Ours. We must not be swamped
by Aliens.'

'Then bring in your own races and bring 'em in quick,' I ventured.

This is the one remark one must not make in certain quarters of the West; and I lost caste
heavily while he explained (exactly as the Dutch did at the Cape years ago) how British Columbia
was by no means so rich as she appeared; that she was throttled by capitalists and monopolists
of all kinds; that white labour had to be laid off and fed and warmed during the winter; that
living expenses were enormously high; that they were at the end of a period of prosperity,
and were now entering on lean years; and that whatever steps were necessary for bringing in
more white people should be taken with extreme caution. Then he added that the railway rates
to British Columbia were so high that emigrants were debarred from coming on there.

'But haven't the rates been reduced?' I asked.

'Yes--yes, I believe they have, but immigrants are so much in demand that they are snapped
up before they have got so far West. You must remember, too, that skilled labour is not like
agricultural labour. It is dependent on so many considerations. And the Japanese must go.'

'So people have told me. But I heard stories of dairies and fruit-farms in British Columbia
being thrown up because there was no labour to milk or pick the fruit. Is that true, d'you think?'

'Well, you can't expect a man with all the chances that our country offers him to milk cows
in a pasture. A Chinaman can do that. We want races that will assimilate with ours,' etc., etc.

'But didn't the Salvation Army offer to bring in three or four thousand English some short
time ago? What came of that idea?'

'It--er--fell through.'

'Why?'

'For political reasons, I believe. We do not want People who will lower the Standard of Living.
That is why the Japanese must go.'

'Then why keep the Chinese?'

'We can get on with the Chinese. We can't get on without the Chinese. But we must have Emigration
of a Type that will assimilate with Our People. I hope I have made myself clear?'

I hoped that he had, too.

Now hear a wife, a mother, and a housekeeper.

'We have to pay for this precious state of things with our health and our children's. Do you
know the saying that the Frontier is hard on women and cattle? This isn't the frontier, but
in some respects it's worse, because we have all the luxuries and appearances--the pretty glass
and silver to put on the table. We have to dust, polish, and arrange 'em after we've done our
housework. I don't suppose that means anything to you, but--try it for a month! We have no
help. A Chinaman costs fifty or sixty dollars a month now. Our husbands can't always afford
that. How old would you take me for? I'm not thirty. Well thank God, I stopped my sister coming
out West. Oh yes, it's a fine country--for men.'

'Can't you import servants from England?'

'I can't pay a girl's passage in order to have her married in three months. Besides, she wouldn't
work. They won't when they see Chinamen working.'

'Do you object to the Japanese, too?'

'Of course not. No one does. It's only politics. The wives of the men who earn six and seven
dollars a day--skilled labour they call it--have Chinese and Jap servants. We can't afford
it. We have to think of saving for the future, but those other people live up to every cent
they earn. They know they're all right. They're Labour. They'll be looked after, whatever happens.
You can see how the State looks after me.'

A little later I had occasion to go through a great and beautiful city between six and seven
of a crisp morning. Milk and fish, vegetables, etc., were being delivered to the silent houses
by Chinese and Japanese. Not a single white man was visible on that chilly job.

Later still a man came to see me, without too publicly giving his name. He was in a small way
of business, and told me (others had said much the same thing) that if I gave him away his
business would suffer. He talked for half an hour on end.

'Am I to understand, then,' I said, 'that what you call Labour absolutely dominates this part
of the world?'

He nodded.

'That it is difficult to get skilled labour into here?'

'Difficult? My God, if I want to get an extra hand for my business--I pay Union wages, of course--I
have to arrange to get him here secretly. I have to go out and meet him, accidental-like, down
the line, and if the Unions find out that he is coming, they, like as not, order him back East,
or turn him down across the Border.'

'Even if he has his Union ticket? Why?'

'They'll tell him that labour conditions are not good here. He knows what that means. He'll
turn back quick enough. I'm in a small way of business, and I can't afford to take any chances
fighting the Unions.'

'What would happen if you did?'

'D'you know what's happening across the Border? Men get blown up there--with dynamite.'

'But this isn't across the Border?'

'It's a damn-sight too near to be pleasant. And witnesses get blown up, too. You see, the Labour
situation ain't run from our side the line. It's worked from down under. You may have noticed
men were rather careful when they talked about it?'

'Yes, I noticed all that.'

'Well, it ain't a pleasant state of affairs. I don't say that the Unions here would do anything
to you--and please understand I'm all for the rights of Labour myself. Labour has no better
friend than me--I've been a working man, though I've got a business of my own now. Don't run
away with any idea that I'm against Labour--will you?'

'Not in the least. I can see that. You merely find that Labour's a little bit--er--inconsiderate,
sometimes?'

'Look what happens across the Border! I suppose they've told you that little fuss with the
Japanese in Vancouver was worked from down under, haven't they? I don't think our own people
'ud have done it by themselves.'

'I've heard that several times. Is it quite sporting, do you think, to lay the blame on another
country?'

'You don't live here. But as I was saying--if we get rid of the Japs to-day, we'll be told
to get rid of some one else to-morrow. There's no limit, sir, to what Labour wants. None!'

'I thought they only want a fair day's wage for a fair day's work?'

'That may do in the Old Country, but here they mean to boss the country. They do.'

'And how does the country like it?'

'We're about sick of it. It don't matter much in flush times--employers'll do most anything
sooner than stop work--but when we come to a pinch, you'll hear something. We're a rich land--in
spite of everything they make out--but we're held up at every turn by Labour. Why, there's
businesses on businesses which friends of mine--in a small way like myself--want to start.
Businesses in every direction--if they was only allowed to start in. But they ain't.'

'That's a pity. Now, what do you think about the Japanese question?'

'I don't think. I know. Both political parties are playing up to the Labour vote--if you understand
what that means.'

I tried to understand.

'And neither side'll tell the truth--that if the Asiatic goes, this side of the Continent'll
drop out of sight, unless we get free white immigration. And any party that proposed white
immigration on a large scale 'ud be snowed under next election. I'm telling you what politicians
think. Myself, I believe if a man stood up to Labour--not that I've any feeling against Labour--and
just talked sense, a lot of people would follow him--quietly, of course. I believe he could
even get white immigration after a while. He'd lose the first election, of course, but in the
long run.... We're about sick of Labour. I wanted you to know the truth.'

'Thank you. And you don't think any attempt to bring in white immigration would succeed?'

'Not if it didn't suit Labour. You can try it if you like, and see what happens.'

On that hint I made an experiment in another city. There were three men of position, and importance,
and affluence, each keenly interested in the development of their land, each asserting that
what the land needed was white immigrants. And we four talked for two hours on the matter--up
and down and in circles. The one point on which those three men were unanimous was, that whatever
steps were taken to bring people into British Columbia from England, by private recruiting
or otherwise, should be taken secretly. Otherwise the business of the people concerned in the
scheme would suffer.

At which point I dropped the Great Question of Asiatic Exclusion which is Agitating all our
Community; and I leave it to you, especially in Australia and the Cape, to draw your own conclusions.

Externally, British Columbia appears to be the richest and the loveliest section of the Continent.
Over and above her own resources she has a fair chance to secure an immense Asiatic trade,
which she urgently desires. Her land, in many places over large areas, is peculiarly fitted
for the small former and fruit-grower, who can send his truck to the cities. On every hand
I heard a demand for labour of all kinds. At the same time, in no other part of the Continent
did I meet so many men who insistently decried the value and possibilities of their country,
or who dwelt more fluently on the hardships and privations to be endured by the white immigrant.
I believe that one or two gentlemen have gone to England to explain the drawbacks viva voce.
It is possible that they incur a great responsibility in the present, and even a terrible one
for the future.

THE FORTUNATE TOWNS

After Politics, let us return to the Prairie which is the High Veldt, plus Hope, Activity,
and Reward. Winnipeg is the door to it--a great city in a great plain, comparing herself, innocently
enough, to other cities of her acquaintance, but quite unlike any other city.

When one meets, in her own house, a woman not seen since girlhood she is all a stranger till
some remembered tone or gesture links up to the past, and one cries: 'It is you after all.'
But, indeed, the child has gone; the woman with her influences has taken her place. I tried
vainly to recover the gawky, graceless city I had known, so unformed and so insistent on her
shy self. I even ventured to remind a man of it. 'I remember,' he said, smiling, 'but we were
young then. This thing,' indicating an immense perspective of asphalted avenue that dipped
under thirty railway tracks, 'only came up in the last ten years--practically the last five.
We've had to enlarge all those warehouses yonder by adding two or three stories to 'em, and
we've hardly begun to go ahead yet. We're just beginning.'

Warehouses, railway-sidings, and such are only counters in the White Man's Game, which can
be swept up and re-dealt as the play varies. It was the spirit in the thin dancing air--the
new spirit of the new city--which rejoiced me. Winnipeg has Things in abundance, but has learned
to put them beneath her feet, not on top of her mind, and so is older than many cities. None
the less the Things had to be shown--for what shopping is to the woman showing off his town
is to the right-minded man. First came the suburbs--miles on miles of the dainty, clean-outlined,
wooden-built houses, where one can be so happy and so warm, each unjealously divided from its
neighbour by the lightest of boundaries. One could date them by their architecture, year after
year, back to the Early 'Nineties, which is when civilisation began; could guess within a few
score dollars at their cost and the incomes of their owners, and could ask questions about
the new domestic appliances of to-day.

'Asphalt streets and concrete sidewalks came up a few years ago,' said our host as we trotted
over miles of it. 'We found it the only way to fight the prairie mud. Look!' Where the daring
road ended, there lay unsubdued, level with the pale asphalt, the tenacious prairie, over which
civilisation fought her hub-deep way to the West. And with asphalt and concrete they fight
the prairie back every building season. Next came the show-houses, built by rich men with an
eye to the honour and glory of their city, which is the first obligation of wealth in a new land.

We twisted and turned among broad, clean, tree-lined, sunlit boulevards and avenues, all sluiced
down with an air that forbade any thought of fatigue, and talked of city government and municipal
taxation, till, in a certain silence, we were shown a suburb of uncared-for houses, shops,
and banks, whose sides and corners were rubbed greasy by the shoulders of loafers. Dirt and
tin cans lay about the street. Yet it was not the squalor of poverty so much as the lack of
instinct to keep clean. One race prefers to inhabit there.

Next a glimpse of a cold, white cathedral, red-brick schools almost as big (thank goodness!)
as some convents; hospitals, institutions, a mile or so of shops, and then a most familiar-feeling
lunch at a Club which would have amazed my Englishman at Montreal, where men, not yet old,
talked of Fort Garry as they remembered it, and tales of the founding of the city, of early
administrative shifts and accidents, mingled with the younger men's prophecies and frivolities.

There are a few places still left where men can handle big things with a light touch, and take
more for granted in five minutes than an Englishman at home could puzzle out in a year. But
one would not meet many English at a lunch in a London club who took the contract for building
London Wall or helped bully King John into signing Magna Charta.

I had two views of the city--one on a gray day from the roof of a monster building, whence
it seemed to overflow and fill with noises the whole vast cup of the horizon; and still, all
round its edge, jets of steam and the impatient cries of machinery showed it was eating out
into the Prairie like a smothered fire.

The other picture was a silhouette of the city's flank, mysterious as a line of unexplored
cliffs, under a sky crimson--barred from the zenith to the ground, where it lay, pale emerald
behind the uneven ramparts. As our train halted in the last of the dusk, and the rails glowed
dull red, I caught the deep surge of it, and seven miles across the purple levels saw the low,
restless aurora of its lights. It is rather an awesome thing to listen to a vanguard of civilisation
talking to itself in the night in the same tone as a thousand-year-old city.

All the country hereabouts is riddled with railways for business and pleasure undreamed of
fifteen years ago, and it was a long time before we reached the clear prairie of air and space
and open land. The air is different from any air that ever blew; the space is ampler than most
spaces, because it runs back to the unhampered Pole, and the open land keeps the secret of
its magic as closely as the sea or the desert.

People here do not stumble against each other around corners, but see largely and tranquilly
from a long way off what they desire, or wish to avoid, and they shape their path accordingly
across the waves, and troughs, and tongues, and dips and fans of the land.

When mere space and the stoop of the high sky begin to overwhelm, earth provides little ponds
and lakes, lying in soft-flanked hollows, where people can step down out of the floods of air,
and delight themselves with small and known distances. Most of the women I saw about the houses
were down in the hollows, and most of the men were on the crests and the flats. Once, while
we halted a woman drove straight down at us from the sky-line, along a golden path between
black ploughed lands. When the horse, who managed affairs, stopped at the cars, she nodded
mysteriously, and showed us a very small baby in the hollow of her arm. Doubtless she was some
exiled Queen flying North to found a dynasty and establish a country. The Prairie makes everything
wonderful.

They were threshing the wheat on both sides or the track as far as the eye could see. The smoke
of the machines went up in orderly perspective alongside the mounds of chaff--thus: a machine,
a house, a mound of chaff, a stretch of wheat in stocks--and then repeat the pattern over the
next few degrees of longitude. We ran through strings of nearly touching little towns, where
I remembered an occasional shack; and through big towns once represented by a name-board, a
siding, and two troopers of the North-West Police. In those days men proved that Wheat would
not grow north of some fool's line, or other, or, if it did, that no one would grow it. And
now the Wheat was marching with us as far as the eye could reach; the railways were out, two,
three hundred miles north, peopling a new wheat country; and north of that again the Grand
Trunk was laying down a suburban extension of a few thousand miles across the Continent, with
branches perhaps to Dawson City, certainly to Hudson Bay.

'Come north and look!' cried the Afrites of the Railway. 'You're only on the fringe of it here.'
I preferred to keep the old road, and to gape at miracles accomplished since my day. The old,
false-fronted, hollow-stomached Western hotels were gone; their places filled by five-storey
brick or stone ones, with Post Offices to match. Occasionally some overlooked fragment of the
past still cleaved to a town, and marked it for an old acquaintance, but often one had to get
a mile away and look back on a place--as one holds a palimpsest up against the light--to identify
the long overlaid lines of the beginnings. Each town supplied the big farming country behind
it, and each town school carried the Union Jack on a flagstaff in its playground. So far as
one could understand, the scholars are taught neither to hate, nor despise, nor beg from, their
own country.

I whispered to a man that I was a little tired of a three days' tyranny of Wheat, besides being
shocked at farmers who used clean bright straw for fuel, and made bonfires of their chaff-hills.
'You're 'way behind the times,' said he. 'There's fruit and dairying and any quantity of mixed
farming going forward all around--let alone irrigation further West. Wheat's not our only king
by a long sight. Wait till you strike such and such a place.' It was there I met a prophet
and a preacher in the shape of a Commissioner of the Local Board of Trade (all towns have them),
who firmly showed me the vegetables which his district produced. They were vegetables too--all
neatly staged in a little kiosk near the station.

I think the pious Thomas Tusser would have loved that man. 'Providence,' said he, shedding
pamphlets at every gesture, 'did not intend everlasting Wheat in this section. No, sir! Our
business is to keep ahead of Providence--to meet her with mixed farming. Are you interested
in mixed farming? Psha! Too bad you missed our fruit and vegetable show. It draws people together,
mixed farming does. I don't say Wheat is narrowing to the outlook, but I claim there's more
sociability and money in mixed farming. We've been hypnotised by Wheat and Cattle. Now--the
cars won't start yet awhile--I'll just tell you my ideas.'

For fifteen glorious minutes he gave me condensed essence of mixed farming, with excursions
into sugar-beet (did you know they are making sugar in Alberta?), and he talked of farmyard
muck, our dark mother of all things, with proper devotion.

'What we want now,' he cried in farewell, 'is men--more men. Yes, and women.'

They need women sorely for domestic help, to meet the mad rush of work at harvest time--maids
who will help in house, dairy, and chicken-run till they are married.

A steady tide sets that way already; one contented settler recruiting others from England;
but if a tenth of that energy wasted on 'social reform' could be diverted to decently thought
out and supervised emigration work ('Labour' does not yet object to people working on the land)
we might do something worth talking about. The races which work and do not form Committees
are going into the country at least as fast as ours. It makes one jealous and afraid to watch
aliens taking, and taking honestly, so much of this treasure of good fortune and sane living.

There was a town down the road which I had first heard discussed nigh twenty years ago by a
broken-down prospector in a box-car. 'Young feller,' said he, after he had made a professional
prophecy,' you'll hear of that town if you live. She's born lucky.'

I saw the town later--it was a siding by a trestle bridge where Indians sold beadwork--and
as years passed I gathered that the old tramp's prophecy had come true, and that Luck of some
kind had struck the little town by the big river. So, this trip, I stopped to make sure. It
was a beautiful town of six thousand people, and a railway junction, beside a high-girdered
iron bridge; there was a public garden with trees at the station. A company of joyous men and
women, whom that air and that light, and their own goodwill, made our brothers and sisters,
came along in motors, and gave us such a day as never was.

'What about the Luck?' I asked.

'Heavens!' said one. 'Haven't you heard about our natural gas--the greatest natural gas in
the world? Oh, come and see!'

I was whirled off to a roundhouse full of engines and machinery-shops, worked by natural gas
which comes out of the earth, smelling slightly of fried onions, at a pressure of six hundred
pounds, and by valves and taps is reduced to four pounds. There was Luck enough to make a metropolis.
Imagine a city's heating and light--to say nothing of power--laid on at no greater expense
than that of piping!

'Are there any limits to the possibilities of it?' I demanded.

'Who knows? We're only at the beginning. We'll show you a brick-making plant, out on the prairie,
run by gas. But just now we want to show you one of our pet farms.'

Away swooped the motors, like swallows, over roads any width you please, and up on to what
looked like the High Veldt itself. A Major of the Mounted Police, who had done a year at the
(Boer) war, told us how the ostrich-farm fencing and the little meercats sitting up and racing
about South Africa had made him homesick for the sight of the gophers by the wayside, and the
endless panels of wire fencing along which we rushed. (The Prairie has nothing to learn from
the Veldt about fencing, or tricky gates.)

'After all,' said the Major, 'there's no country to touch this. I've had thirty years of it--from
one end to the other.'

Then they pointed out all the quarters of the horizon--say, fifty miles wherever you turned--and
gave them names.

The show farmer had taken his folk to church, but we friendly slipped through his gates and
reached the silent, spick-and-span house, with its trim barn, and a vast mound of copper-coloured
wheat, piled in the sun between two mounds of golden chaff. Every one thumbed a sample of it
and passed judgment--it must have been worth a few hundred golden sovereigns as it lay, out
on the veldt--and we sat around, on the farm machinery, and, in the hush that a shut-up house
always imposes, we seemed to hear the lavish earth getting ready for new harvests. There was
no true wind, but a push, as it were, of the whole crystal atmosphere.

'Now for the brickfield!' they cried. It was many miles off. The road fed by a never-to-be-forgotten
drop, to a river broad as the Orange at Norval's Pont, rustling between mud hills. An old Scotchman,
in the very likeness of Charon, with big hip boots, controlled a pontoon, which sagged back
and forth by current on a wire rope. The reckless motors bumped on to this ferry through a
foot of water, and Charon, who never relaxed, bore us statelily across the dark, broad river
to the further bank, where we all turned to look at the lucky little town, and discuss its
possibilities.

'I think you can see it best from here,' said one.

'No, from here,' said another, and their voices softened on the very name of it.

Then for an hour we raced over true prairie, great yellow-green plains crossed by old buffalo
trails, which do not improve motor springs, till a single chimney broke the horizon like a
mast at sea; and thereby were more light-hearted men and women, a shed and a tent or two for
workmen, the ribs and frames of the brick-making mechanism, a fifteen foot square shaft sunk,
sixty foot down to the clay, and, stark and black, the pipe of a natural-gas well. The rest
was Prairie--the mere curve of the earth--with little grey birds calling.

I thought it could not have been simpler, more audacious or more impressive, till I saw some
women in pretty frocks go up and peer at the hissing gas-valves.

'We fancied that it might amuse you,' said all those merry people, and between laughter and
digressions they talked over projects for building, first their own, and next other cities,
in brick of all sorts; giving figures of output and expenses of plant that made one gasp. To
the eye the affair was no more than a novel or delicious picnic. What it actually meant was
a committee to change the material of civilisation for a hundred miles around. I felt as though
I were assisting at the planning of Nineveh; and whatever of good comes to the little town
that was born lucky I shall always claim a share.

But there is no space to tell how we fed, with a prairie appetite, in the men's quarters, on
a meal prepared by an artist; how we raced home at speeds no child could ever hear of, and
no grown-up should attempt; how the motors squattered at the ford, and took pot-shots at the
pontoon till even Charon smiled; how great horses hauled the motors up the gravelly bank into
the town; how there we met people in their Sunday best, walking and driving, and pulled ourselves
together, and looked virtuous; and how the merry company suddenly and quietly evanished because
they thought that their guests might be tired. I can give you no notion of the pure, irresponsible
frolic of it--of the almost affectionate kindness, the gay and inventive hospitality that so
delicately controlled the whole affair--any more than I can describe a certain quiet half-hour
in the dusk just before we left, when the company gathered to say good-bye, while young couples
walked in the street, and the glare of the never-extinguished natural-gas lamps coloured the
leaves of the trees a stage green.

It was a woman, speaking out of the shadow, who said, what we all felt, 'You see, we just love
our town,'

'So do we,' I said, and it slid behind us.

MOUNTAINS AND THE PACIFIC

The Prairie proper ends at Calgary, among the cattle-ranches, mills, breweries, and three million
acre irrigation works. The river that floats timber to the town from the mountains does not
slide nor rustle like Prairie rivers, but brawls across bars of blue pebbles, and a greenish
tinge in its water hints of the snows.

What I saw of Calgary was crowded into one lively half-hour (motors were invented to run about
new cities). What I heard I picked up, oddly enough, weeks later, from a young Dane in the
North Sea. He was qualmish, but his Saga of triumph upheld him.

'Three years ago I come to Canada by steerage--third class. And I have the language to learn.
Look at me! I have now my own dairy business, in Calgary, and--look at me!--my own half section,
that is, three hundred and twenty acres. All my land which is mine! And now I come home, first
class, for Christmas here in Denmark, and I shall take out back with me, some friends of mine
which are farmers, to farm on those irrigated lands near by Calgary. Oh, I tell you there is
nothing wrong with Canada for a man which works.'

'And will your friends go?' I inquired.

'You bet they will. It is all arranged already. I bet they get ready to go now already; and
in three years they will come back for Christmas here in Denmark, first class like me.'

'Then you think Calgary is going ahead?'

'You bet! We are only at the beginning of things. Look at me! Chickens? I raise chickens also
in Calgary,' etc., etc.

After all this pageant of unrelieved material prosperity, it was a rest to get to the stillness
of the big foothills, though they, too, had been in-spanned for the work of civilisation. The
timber off their sides was ducking and pitch-poling down their swift streams, to be sawn into
house-stuff for all the world. The woodwork of a purely English villa may come from as many
Imperial sources as its owner's income.

The train crept, whistling to keep its heart up, through the winding gateways of the hills,
till it presented itself, very humbly, before the true mountains, the not so Little Brothers
to the Himalayas. Mountains of the pine-cloaked, snow-capped breed are unchristian things.

Men mine into the flanks of some of them, and trust to modern science to pull them through.
Not long ago, a mountain kneeled on a little mining village as an angry elephant kneels; but
it did not get up again, and the half of that camp was no more seen on earth. The other half
still stands--uninhabited. The 'heathen in his blindness' would have made arrangements with
the Genius of the Place before he ever drove a pick there. 'As a learned scholar of a little-known
university once observed to an engineer officer on the Himalaya-Tibet Road--'You white men
gain nothing by not noticing what you cannot see. You fall off the road, or the road falls
on you, and you die, and you think it all an accident. How much wiser it was when we were allowed
to sacrifice a man officially, sir, before making bridges or other public works. Then the local
gods were officially recognised, sir, and did not give any more trouble, and the local workmen,
sir, were much pleased with these precautions.'

There are many local gods on the road through the Rockies: old bald mountains that have parted
with every shred of verdure and stand wrapped in sheets of wrinkled silver rock, over which
the sight travels slowly as in delirium; mad, horned mountains, wreathed with dancing mists;
low-browed and bent-shouldered faquirs of the wayside, sitting in meditation beneath a burden
of glacier-ice that thickens every year; and mountains of fair aspect on one side, but on the
other seamed with hollow sunless clefts, where last year's snow is blackened with this year's
dirt and smoke of forest-fires. The drip from it seeps away through slopes of unstable gravel
and dirt, till, at the appointed season, the whole half-mile of undermined talus slips and
roars into the horrified valley.

The railway winds in and out among them with little inexplicable deviations and side-twists,
much as a buck walks through a forest-glade, sidling and crossing uneasily in what appears
to be a plain way. Only when the track has rounded another shoulder or two, a backward and
upward glance at some menacing slope shows why the train did not take the easier-looking road
on the other side of the gorge.

From time to time the mountains lean apart, and nurse between them some golden valley of slow
streams, fat pastures, and park-like uplands, with a little town, and cow bells tinkling among
berry bushes; and children who have never seen the sun rise or set, shouting at the trains;
and real gardens round the houses.

At Calgary it was a frost, and the dahlias were dead. A day later nasturtiums bloomed untouched
beside the station platforms, and the air was heavy and liquid with the breath of the Pacific.
One felt the spirit of the land change with the changing outline of the hills till, on the
lower levels by the Fraser, it seemed that even the Sussex Downs must be nearer at heart to
the Prairie than British Columbia. The Prairie people notice the difference, and the Hill people,
unwisely, I think, insist on it. Perhaps the magic may lie in the scent of strange evergreens
and mosses not known outside the ranges: or it may strike from wall to wall of timeless rifts
and gorges, but it seemed to me to draw out of the great sea that washes further Asia--the
Asia of allied mountains, mines, and forests.

We rested one day high up in the Rockies, to visit a lake carved out of pure jade, whose property
is to colour every reflection on its bosom to its own tint. A belt of brown dead timber on
a gravel scar, showed, upside down, like sombre cypresses rising from green turf and the reflected
snows were pale green. In summer many tourists go there, but we saw nothing except the wonderworking
lake lying mute in its circle of forest, where red and orange lichens grew among grey and blue
moss, and we heard nothing except the noise of its outfall hurrying through a jam of bone-white
logs. The thing might have belonged to Tibet or some unexplored valley behind Kin-chinjunga.
It had no concern with the West.

As we drove along the narrow hill-road a piebald pack-pony with a china-blue eye came round
a bend, followed by two women, black-haired, bare-headed, wearing beadwork squaw-jackets, and
riding straddle. A string of pack-ponies trotted through the pines behind them.

'Indians on the move?' said I. 'How characteristic!'

As the women jolted by, one of them very slightly turned her eyes, and they were, past any
doubt, the comprehending equal eyes of the civilised white woman which moved in that berry-brown
face.

'Yes,' said our driver, when the cavalcade had navigated the next curve,' that'll be Mrs. So-and-So
and Miss So-and-So. They mostly camp hereabout for three months every year. I reckon they're
coming in to the railroad before the snow falls.'

'And whereabout do they go?' I asked.

'Oh, all about anywheres. If you mean where they come from just now--that's the trail yonder.'

He pointed to a hair-crack across the face of a mountain, and I took his word for it that it
was a safe pony-trail. The same evening, at an hotel of all the luxuries, a slight woman in
a very pretty evening frock was turning over photographs, and the eyes beneath the strictly-arranged
hair were the eyes of the woman in the beadwork jacket who had quirted the piebald pack-pony
past our buggy.

Praised be Allah for the diversity of His creatures! But do you know any other country where
two women could go out for a three months' trek and shoot in perfect comfort and safety?

These mountains are only ten days from London, and people more and more use them for pleasure-grounds.
Other and most unthought-of persons buy little fruit-farms in British Columbia as an excuse
for a yearly visit to the beautiful land, and they tempt yet more people from England. This
is apart from the regular tide of emigration, and serves to make the land known. If you asked
a State-owned railway to gamble on the chance of drawing tourists, the Commissioner of Railways
would prove to you that the experiment could never succeed, and that it was wrong to risk the
taxpayers' money in erecting first-class hotels. Yet South Africa could, even now, be made
a tourists' place--if only the railroads and steamship lines had faith.

On thinking things over I suspect I was not intended to appreciate the merits of British Columbia
too highly. Maybe I misjudged; maybe she was purposely misrepresented; but I seemed to hear
more about 'problems' and 'crises' and 'situations' in her borders than anywhere else. So far
as eye or ear could gather, the one urgent problem was to find enough men and women to do the
work in hand.

Lumber, coal, minerals, fisheries, fit soil for fruit, dairy, and poultry farms are all there
in a superb climate. The natural beauty of earth and sky match these lavish gifts; to which
are added thousands of miles of safe and sheltered waterways for coastal trade; deep harbours
that need no dredge; the ground-works of immense and ice-free ports--all the title-deeds to
half the trade of Asia. For the people's pleasure and good disport salmon, trout, quail, and
pheasant play in front of and through the suburbs of her capitals. A little axe-work and road-metalling
gives a city one of the loveliest water-girt parks that we have outside the tropics. Another
town is presented with a hundred islands, knolls, wooded coves, stretches of beach, and dingles,
laid down as expressly for camp-life, picnics, and boating parties, beneath skies never too
hot and rarely too cold. If they care to lift up their eyes from their almost subtropical gardens
they can behold snowy peaks across blue bays, which must be good for the soul. Though they
face a sea out of which any portent may arise, they are not forced to protect or even to police
its waters. They are as ignorant of drouth, murrain, pestilence locusts, and blight, as they
are of the true meaning of want and fear.

Such a land is good for an energetic man. It is also not so bad for the loafer. I was, as I
have told you, instructed on its, drawbacks. I was to understand that there was no certainty
in any employment; and that a man who earned immense wages for six months of the year would
have to be kept by the community if he fell out of work for the other six. I was not to be
deceived by golden pictures set before me by interested parties (that is to say, by almost
every one I met), and I was to give due weight to the difficulties and discouragements that
beset the intending immigrant. Were I an intending immigrant I would risk a good deal of discomfort
to get on to the land in British Columbia; and were I rich, with no attachments outside England,
I would swiftly buy me a farm or a house in that country for the mere joy of it.

I forgot those doleful and unhumorous conspirators among people who fervently believed in the
place; but afterwards the memory left a bad taste in my mouth. Cities, like women, cannot be
too careful what sort of men they allow to talk about them.

Time had changed Vancouver literally out of all knowledge. From the station to the suburbs,
and back to the wharves, every step was strange, and where I remembered open spaces and still
untouched timber, the tramcars were fleeting people out to a lacrosse game. Vancouver is an
aged city, for only a few days previous to my arrival the Vancouver Baby--i.e. the first child
born in Vancouver--had been married.

A steamer--once familiar in Table Bay--had landed a few hundred Sikhs and Punjabi Jats--to
each man his bundle--and the little groups walked uneasy alone, keeping, for many of them had
been soldiers, to the military step. Yes, they said they had come to this country to get work.
News had reached their villages that work at great wages was to be had in this country. Their
brethren who had gone before had sent them the news. Yes, and sometimes the money for the passage
out. The money would be paid back from the so-great wages to come. With interest? Assuredly
with interest.. Did men lend money for nothing in any country? They were waiting for their
brethren to come and show them where to eat, and later, how to work. Meanwhile this was a new
country. How could they say anything about it? No, it was not like Gurgaon or Shahpur or Jullundur.
The Sickness (plague) had come to all these places. It had come into the Punjab by every road,
and many--many--many had died. The crops, too, had failed in some districts. Hearing the news
about these so-great wages they had taken ship for the belly's sake--for the money's sake--for
the children's sake.

'Would they go back again?'

They grinned as they nudged each other. The Sahib had not quite understood. They had come over
for the sake of the money--the rupees, no, the dollars. The Punjab was their home where their
villages lay, where their people were waiting. Without doubt--without doubt--they would go
back. Then came the brethren already working in the mills--cosmopolitans dressed in ready-made
clothes, and smoking cigarettes.

'This way, O you people,' they cried. The bundles were reshouldered and the turbaned knots
melted away. The last words I caught were true Sikh talk: 'But what about the money, O my brother?'

Some Punjabis have found out that money can be too dearly bought.

There was a Sikh in a sawmill, had been driver in a mountain battery at home. Himself he was
from Amritsar. (Oh, pleasant as cold water in a thirsty land is the sound of a familiar name
in a fair country!)

'But you had your pension. Why did you come here?'

'Heaven-born, because my sense was little. And there was also the Sickness at Amritsar.'

(The historian a hundred years hence will be able to write a book on economic changes brought
about by pestilence. There is a very interesting study somewhere of the social and commercial
effects of the Black Death in England.)

On a wharf, waiting for a steamer, some thirty Sikhs, many of them wearing their old uniforms
(which should not be allowed) were talking at the tops of their voices, so that the shed rang
like an Indian railway station. A suggestion that if they spoke lower life would be easier
was instantly adopted. Then a senior officer with a British India medal asked hopefully: 'Has
the Sahib any orders where we are to go?'

Alas he had none--nothing but goodwill and greetings for the sons of the Khalsa, and they tramped
off in fours.

It is said that when the little riot broke out in Vancouver these 'heathen' were invited by
other Asiatics to join in defending themselves against the white man. They refused on the ground
that they were subjects of the King. I wonder what tales they sent back to their villages,
and where, and how fully, every detail of the affair was talked over. White men forget that
no part of the Empire can live or die to itself.

Here is a rather comic illustration of this on the material side. The wonderful waters between
Vancouver and Victoria are full of whales, leaping and rejoicing in the strong blue all about
the steamer. There is, therefore, a whalery on an island near by, and I had the luck to travel
with one of the shareholders.

'Whales are beautiful beasts,' he said affectionately. 'We've a contract with a Scotch firm
for every barrel of oil we can deliver for years ahead. 

Then, raising his voice and pointing to the neighboring blocks:

- The huge felony - cried - of those bad men!

- By God, your grace speak lower, which can hearing it - broke Ramiro,
adding: - De so that your worship knows well by ...

- For this girl
- Canon said pointing to Casilda.

The dialogue, held strongly and it was agreed that, before the end of the meeting, would the
two to ascertain the truth, hiding in the box that says Casilda. At first the young man expressed
no little disgust at that intelligence, stating that seemed to him more frankly right to require
Enrique Dávila or at the same Bracamonte; but Canon made him think
of the need for prior uncertainty, and, referring the risk that his
wound was reopened in the bustle of the stairs, he said:

- If this
happens to you, my son, you shall realize that I did hurt, once again,
in service King and honor of your home.

Then, each other, went to the bench. And a large number of visits around Don Inigo. Don Pedro
de Valderrábano, sly old gentleman, was walking alone, watching mechanically furniture and looking
at the figures of the drapery. Other gentlemen spoke in Standing by the windows, through which
came a dim light and dim. Ramiro, after comply with the ceremonial greetings, sat next to a
wide hearth, around which are parliamentary war.

Don Enrique Davila judged Farnese tactics, as he held in his hand a silver vase a bezoar stone
embedded on edge. A servant escanciábale San Martín wine too often. He was richly dressed
in purple velvet, with doublet of same, lined with fur.

His intemperate condition responded to his gigantic stature. When he wanted to dominate any
grief, burst one or two horses to run wild force by way of Villatoro. The game was the only
passion that could puncture it. Without combing tresses, backwards. Her complexion was muddy
and stale. His small eyes.

Ramiro did not hear but the end of his speech:

- Say, your worship, that once Farnese had left the provinces to enter France had to fight a
pitched battle to Béarnais, desbaratalle then, quitalle the victuals, seize Paris and then say
to our king, "Point agora His Majesty the person who sit on this
throne.

"Thus, while exposing Flanders, we extended the power of our weapons and cleaned the pestilence
that Lutheran monarchy.

- What a wild way of war! - Valderrábano said Don Pedro, with a friendly
tone and burlesque .-- In a twinkling of an eye disrupts your worship
an army, takes her victuals, falls abruptly on a powerful city and
it takes over.

Think your grace, Don Henry, no battle is won not from a cow chair, it is the brazier.

Councilman Gaspar González Heredia, wanting to absorb the spicy fish spear that he said seriously,
turning to Don Enrique:

- Perhaps the Duke's army was not enough for such an undertaking, and there he presented to Bearn
as much stunt man and courage to fight at the head of his soldiers.

- With that - it Zimbron Daza said the lawyer, who boasted of tactical - no show that much trickery
that says your worship, as the head of a powerful kingdom, it aims to be Béarn, because it has
to do battle, must not be in the fray, among his soldiers; regardless
if he himself killed or defeated, the kingdom all is lost, as happened
to the Persians and Medes, conquered by Alexander, Darius the king
died, and in Spain the death of King Don Rodrigo, and Hungary, in
our time, King Ludwig died in the battle that he recklessly the Turks.

Prodújose a murmur of admiration.

- And your grace paternity have received new cards from France? -
Alonso asked to Father Jaime Rodriguez of the Society of Jesus.

-
Nearly all of them fall by the wayside.

This month, but only one gets through.

Bring some Details of the first rush of Bearnais on Paris last December.

- Let us know, we know.

- It seems that the Bearnais went well past midnight, when all neighbors
sleeping, but for one case in which check to see the hand of God,
the heretics supported their Papal Gate scales, where they were at
that time some religious of our Company.

Leaning over the first assailants, our brothers are repeated cries
of alarm.

Neighbors wake up, touch the alarm, and the heretic is removed disappointed.

-
Grande glory to your religion - someone said.

- A happy accident
indeed - said Father Rodriguez.

Then the Dominican Fray Gonzalo Jiménez, Guardian of the Convent of
Santo Tomas and Qualifier the Holy Office, said to him with apparent
meekness:

- You already have styling flag to the door of your home.

-
What would your worship as Reverence, Mr. Warden?

- Anser Capitoline,
the famous geese of the Capitol, and no one can say that you lack
old lineage.

Everyone knew the enmity that separated these two religions, but nobody expected an offense similar,
so the words of Father Rodriguez: "I still would not be humble enough to us," were lost in a murmur
of astonishment. Formáronse then talks different. A predominant and all ended up listening.
The chaplain of the Church of the Annunciation Hospital, Miguel Vaquero Gonzalez, speaking
to the Dominican Peso Chrysostom, the miracles of Dona Maria Vela, a nun of Santa Ana The chaplain
enjoyed fame as a saint. His pallor was thinking Cinderella in terrible austerities, yet, his
big blue eyes emanated poignant sweetness.

- They are so big - he said - that God grants so made and attached
the reasons to love God, to leave no doubt.

- In his humility and
other virtues tell me how you want your worship, Mr. Chaplain, but
His revelations very little, because I'm less inclined to creellas.

-
Same thing I heard from your grace paternity, on one occasion, the
Mother Teresa of Jesus.

- In fact, many times I said, let's see how
to this nun, which is not good to give faith so quickly to their strengths
and insights, not because she doubted as by judge that it suits for
women.

But now declare that the said Teresa has been suggested to be possible in these evangelical
perfection.

- And so mesmo Dona Maria, Father Chrysostom. I have experience fed his love and prayer to see
if there is a snare and delusion of Satan.

- I say it was your worship - Zimbron asked the lawyer, turning to
the chaplain - who administralla advised to put off making the holy
Viaticum loosen the jaws.

- No, no, was the father Julian, Julian's
father.

- Your worship witnessed the miracle?

- When I entered the
cell, and Dona Maria had opened his mouth to the divine remedy; whole
face lit up like a lamp.

Over nine days spent with his teeth so tight, stronger man would not have been separate and
waited until it was possible to pass a drop of broth.

The conversation turned, as usual, in the chronicle of the amazing
miracles continually engaged in that city.

Another nun from Santa Ana heard every night a voice denouncing the wiles of the Devil around
the cell of a particular religion. In the convent of San José, Catherine Davila rapture sudden
dam, had raised several feet from the floor to read an annotation
hand of Teresa of Jesus, in San Gregorio Morales.

Sor Angela de la Encarnación was crushed by Satan and slaps the sight of all his companions,
and, ultimately, thrown by him from the top of a garden of the convent
gallery, received no damage.

In addition, every Monday, which is the day that corresponds to the Agony in the Garden, sweating
in imitation Our Lord, so much blood in all its skin, which was necessary move it two or three
layers per day.

Speaking of those things, strange voices trembled and faces toughest are softened and pale as a blow
oreados divine.

The entire city, odoriferous of holiness, seemed to have risen to
a region neighbors God and float in the middle prodigy, partly visible
from the flight of angels.

Souls perfumed burning like charcoal brazier that mystical, poke through penance, fueled by
the incessant flapping of prayer. The miracle was everywhere.

Did possess here and there, so improbable and a bird family. They talked about it with rejoicing,
but terror.

The name of Teresa of Jesus, the religious errant souls marten, the mischievous sublime recurred
frequently in the dialogues. Many of those gathered there were relatives, Some were chattering
and joking with her in the parlors of the Incarnation and St. Joseph;
other, more elderly, the girl met, with much love of finery and smells
and putting nicknames for lovers.

Referíanse with the same enthusiasm his prodigies your wit, and all were happy to speak plainly
of a being that the eyes of the soul were now in glory Paradise.

- Great injustice has lead the great relic of his body - said Alonso de Valdivieso, to terminate the
account of a funny interview she had with her in Medina del Campo.

- This chicanery is owed to the Duke of Alba - replied Monsieur de
Navamorcuende.

Then, taking advantage of the uproar which prompted the words of Don
Henry, a father Carmelite spoke softly to Ramiro who not long ago,
fearing that got a new Rondon miraculous body, a lay sister of the
convent of Alba de Tormes, amid a stormy night, he had directed the
tomb of Mother Teresa, and discovering body, Abriola the chest with
a sharp knife, put his hand through the wound and started the heart.

Then, this superhuman woman putting the relic between two plates of oak it took him to the cell.
The next day, the unmistakable perfume embalmed cloisters, denounced the sublime sacrilege.

Feverish by the confused sound of the dialogue and the heavy air of the room, Ramiro had to
refocus for a moment, penetrate deep feeling of being by the passion that exuded those recent
stories. Just check once again that, at the first mention of wonders of a humble cloistered,
all other issues waned, and the toughest gentlemen, proud of their lineage, their flow, their
scars, bowed their heads as dwarfed because of the surpassing of
the glory penitent.

And again, the calm voice of others and used to whisper in the back of his consciousness, he
spoke as follows:

Give up the struggle of men.

No more heroic life, stronger, more life than life of one who, stripping entirely of vain worldly
clothes and follow the path of Christ our Lord.

This increases as either the powers of the soul, and in one day, siege or advocates, making
up baskets castles and palisades, pound great fighting starts drain vast legions, conquer unknown
worlds and wonderful. Only he tends his flight through the spaces of eternity, achieved their
seed, knows the true glory and defeat the vanity, the brevity and the pain field.

Yes, it would perhaps religious hermit. Was resolved. Lowering eyelids, dreamed, between the
growing murmur of the assembly in his future sanctity.

       * * * * *

A shouting in the street, a rough and hoarse cry, which made the windows
tremble, tore vision.

- What is this? - Cried some.

Ramiro, who was standing next to a window, got up, opened the timber and looked. A group of
villains was moving toward the sun across the square. In the smoky flare torches, Ramiro could
recognize amid this crowd of people, the lofty look of Bracamonte.

New exclamation burst out:

- Viva Don Diego!

Peat steps echoing on the tiles so rhythmic and solemn.

- There are
some neighbors who are accompanying Don Diego de Bracamonte - cried
aloud Ramiro high, turning his face toward the competition.

- Looks
- Valderrábano said - that a few days to this part, just to warn those
streets are set to follow him, and we are giving away all the time
with their cheers, which Güell worse than they sound.

- Please God
do not push someone too much - he added with slow modulation lectoral
Canon.

Ramirez noted that some eyes descended gravity, while others scrutinized,
one by one countenance.

Meanwhile, Enrique Davila responded to the sentence of Canon with
libelous laughter blowing through his fingers the jewel that hung
from the chain.

- Don Enrique, "The excusallas cards" - then said
Lectoral.

- Sir Canon: "Begun acaballo" - Then said the Lord of Navamorcuende,
completing the famous slogan that carried the arms of his family.

Minutes later came Bracamonte.

- What new? - He asked Don Enrique, leaving the seat.

While a servant took away the black shoulder dotted layer of snow,
Bracamonte said:

- That is to give part of the Holy Office in the
case of Antonio Pérez, to circumvent this Luckily, the Charters of
Aragon.

After a chandelier, and the whole face lit by the glow of the candles
large, Warden of St. Thomas broke:

- Is there, perhaps, courts jurisdiction
over that of the Inquisition?

There is the fixed, Don Diego, here we are in Castile.

Bracamonte, suddenly recognizing the voice, replied without hesitation:

- You know your grace Reverence, as the ancients, yet everything is tyranny empezalla, and
if such a dare to Aragon, which so far has kept jealously their freedoms,
then why not dare us, we're already tired and ready to be plucked
the pot!

Ramiro felt his arm pressed.

- Let's go, it's time - the Lectoral murmurole ear.

Some gatherings were leaving, Don Alonso among them.

       

* * * * *

When teacher and student fell to the ground floor block, led by Casilda,
it was night.

- Falling Snow - said the girl looking into the courtyard.

Casilda

had not dreamed or lied. After a long period of waiting, began to listen, through Alhacena tables,
half dug into the dividing wall thickness, the rumor of those who came into the room next door.
There was a crack through which one could peek, but Ramiro and Canon easily recognized the congregation,
even though all lowered their voices with obvious caution.

- The new cards - Bracamonte said - are the Bárboles Baron, Miguel de Gurrea and Lord of Purroy.

He
read it.

The last two relate recent events of Aragon and popular agitation Zaragoza. The Don Diego de
Heredia, M. de Bárboles, among other things said: "Today we the Aragonese the threat, it will
be you tomorrow. Prestémonos faithful help, brothers Castilla, that our country is lost, because
those are held by their parents and judges, are evil and treacherous stepfather della. "

- Yes, the republic is lost - Bracamonte said gruffly, his voice communicating resonance unwise .--
And, perhaps, we wonder, when Spain, ruled yesterday the clearest men, is now the prey of greedy
taxpayers, who not only seek by every means to increase farm itself, but perish the public,
but rather, more, impoverish and destroy the most ancient nobility of the kingdom, leaving, as
we know, runs the business, and inventing against it, every day, new breasts and humiliation? If the
punctilious honor of our caste not been exchanged, agora, in fearfulness and baseness, who would
dare such insolence? Aha, we show that blood is worth something delicate that we inherited
from our elders. It is time for manly resolutions. Lose, if necessary, life in the application,
before that honor. Aragon just waiting for our cue to throw; Sevilla boils and stir, Valladolid,
Madrid and Toledo will come behind, we just leave.

A chorus of approval burning responded to the harangue de Bracamonte. Then, in the silence that ensued,
one voice rang out, stern, unmistakable.

- Do not say that old age, emaciation my strength, my heart has been
intemperate. From the rough-ironed table-linen, the thick tooth-glasses for the drinks,
the slummocky set-out of victuals at meals, to the unaccommodating regulations in the curtainless
cabin, where they had not yet arrived at bunk-edge trays for morning tea, time and progress
had stood still with the P. & O. To be just, there were electric-fan fittings in the cabins,
but the fans were charged extra; and there was a rumour, unverified, that one could eat on
deck or in one's cabin without a medical certificate from the doctor. All the rest was under
the old motto: 'Quis separabit'--'This is quite separate from other lines.'

'After all,' said an Anglo-Indian, whom I was telling about civilised ocean travel, 'they don't
want you Egyptian trippers. They're sure of us, because----' and he gave me many strong reasons
connected with leave, finance, the absence of competition, and the ownership of the Bombay
foreshore.

'But it's absurd,' I insisted. 'The whole concern is out of date. There's a notice on my deck
forbidding smoking and the use of naked lights, and there's a lascar messing about the hold-hatch
outside my cabin with a candle in a lantern.'

Meantime, our one-screw tub thumped gingerly toward Port Said, because we had no mails aboard,
and the Mediterranean, exhausted after severe February hysterics, lay out like oil.

I had some talk with a Scotch quartermaster who complained that lascars are not what they used
to be, owing to their habit (but it has existed since the beginning) of signing on as a clan
or family--all sorts together.

The serang said that, for his part, he had noticed no difference in twenty years. 'Men are
always of many kinds, sahib. And that is because God makes men this and that. Not all one pattern--not
by any means all one pattern.' He told me, too, that wages were rising, but the price of ghee,
rice, and curry-stuffs was up, too, which was bad for wives and families at Porbandar. 'And
that also is thus, and no talk makes it otherwise.' After Suez he would have blossomed into
thin clothes and long talks, but the bitter spring chill nipped him, as the thought of partings
just accomplished and work just ahead chilled the Anglo-Indian contingent. Little by little
one came at the outlines of the old stories--a sick wife left behind here, a boy there, a daughter
at school, a very small daughter trusted to friends or hirelings, certain separation for so
many years and no great hope or delight in the future. It was not a nice India that the tales
hinted at. Here is one that explains a great deal:

There was a Pathan, a Mohammedan, in a Hindu village, employed by the village moneylender as
a debt-collector, which is not a popular trade. He lived alone among Hindus, and--so ran the
charge in the lower court--he wilfully broke the caste of a Hindu villager by forcing on him
forbidden Mussulman food, and when that pious villager would have taken him before the headman
to make reparation, the godless one drew his Afghan knife and killed the headman, besides wounding
a few others. The evidence ran without flaw, as smoothly as well-arranged cases should, and
the Pathan was condemned to death for wilful murder. He appealed and, by some arrangement or
other, got leave to state his case personally to the Court of Revision. 'Said, I believe, that
he did not much trust lawyers, but that if the sahibs would give him a hearing, as man to man,
he might have a run for his money.

Out of the jail, then, he came, and, Pathan-like, not content with his own good facts, must
needs begin by some fairy-tale that he was a secret agent of the government sent down to spy
on that village. Then he warmed to it. Yes, he was that money-lender's agent--a persuader of
the reluctant, if you like--working for a Hindu employer. Naturally, many men owed him grudges.
A lot of the evidence against him was quite true, but the prosecution had twisted it abominably.
About that knife, for instance. True, he had a knife in his hand exactly as they had alleged.
But why? Because with that very knife he was cutting up and distributing a roast sheep which
he had given as a feast to the villagers. At that feast, he sitting in amity with all his world,
the village rose up at the word of command, laid hands on him, and dragged him off to the headman's
house. How could he have broken any man's caste when they were all eating his sheep? And in
the courtyard of the headman's house they surrounded him with heavy sticks and worked themselves
into anger against him, each man exciting his neighbour. He was a Pathan. He knew what that
sort of talk meant. A man cannot collect debts without making enemies. So he warned them. Again
and again he warned them, saying: 'Leave me alone. Do not lay hands on me.' But the trouble
grew worse, and he saw it was intended that he should be clubbed to death like a jackal in
a drain. Then he said, 'If blows are struck, I strike, and I strike to kill, because I am a
Pathan,' But the blows were struck, heavy ones. Therefore, with the very Afghan knife that
had cut up the mutton, he struck the headman. 'Had you meant to kill the headman?' 'Assuredly!
I am a Pathan. When I strike, I strike to kill. I had warned them again and again. I think
I got him in the liver. He died. And that is all there is to it, sahibs. It was my life or
theirs. They would have taken mine over my freely given meats. Now, what'll you do with me?'

In the long run, he got several years for culpable homicide.

'But,' said I, when the tale had been told, 'whatever made the lower court accept all that
village evidence? It was too good on the face of it,'

'The lower court said it could not believe it possible that so many respectable native gentle
could have banded themselves together to tell a lie.'

'Oh! Had the lower court been long in the country?'

'It was a native judge,' was the reply.

If you think this over in all its bearings, you will see that the lower court was absolutely
sincere. Was not the lower court itself a product of Western civilisation, and, as such, bound
to play up--to pretend to think along Western lines--translating each grade of Indian village
society into its English equivalent, and ruling as an English judge would have ruled? Pathans
and, incidentally, English officials must look after themselves.

There is a fell disease of this century called 'snobbery of the soul.' Its germ has been virulently
developed in modern cultures from the uncomplex bacillus isolated sixty years ago by the late
William Makepeace Thackeray. Precisely as Major Ponto, with his plated dishes and stable-boy
masquerading as footman, lied to himself and his guests so--but the Book of Snobs can only
be brought up to date by him who wrote it.

Then, a man struck in from the Sudan--far and far to the south--with a story of a discomposed
judge and a much too collected prisoner.

To the great bazaars of Omdurman, where all things are sold, came a young man from the uttermost
deserts of somewhere or other and heard a gramophone. Life was of no value to him till he had
bought the creature. He took it back to his village, and at twilight set it going among his
ravished friends. His father, sheik of the village, came also, listened to the loud shoutings
without breath, the strong music lacking musicians, and said, justly enough: 'This thing is
a devil. You must not bring devils into my village. Lock it up.'

They waited until he had gone away and then began another tune. A second time the sheik came,
repeated the command, and added that if the singing box was heard again, he would slay the
buyer. But their curiosity and joy defied even this, and for the third time (late at night)
they slipped in pin and record and let the djinn rave. So the sheik, with his rifle, shot his
son as he had promised, and the English judge before whom he eventually came had all the trouble
in the world to save that earnest gray head from the gallows. Thus:

'Now, old man, you must say guilty or not guilty.'

'But I shot him. That is why I am here. I----'

'Hush! It is a form of words which the law asks. (Sotte voce. Write down that the old idiot
doesn't understand.) Be still now.'

'But I shot him. What else could I have done? He bought a devil in a box, and----'

'Quiet! That comes later. Leave talking.'

'But I am sheik of the village. One must not bring devils into a village. I said I would shoot
him.'

'This matter is in the hands of the law. I judge.'

'What need? I shot him. Suppose that your son had brought a devil in a box to your village----'

They explained to him, at last, that under British rule fathers must hand over devil-dealing
children to be shot by the white men (the first step, you see, on the downward path of State
aid), and that he must go to prison for several months for interfering with a government shoot.

We are a great race. There was a pious young judge in Nigeria once, who kept a condemned prisoner
waiting very many minutes while he hunted through the Hausa dictionary, word by word, for,
'May--God--have--mercy--on--your--soul.'

And I heard another tale--about the Suez Canal this time--a hint of what may happen some day
at Panama. There was a tramp steamer, loaded with high explosives, on her way to the East,
and at the far end of the Canal one of the sailors very naturally upset a lamp in the fo'c'sle.
After a heated interval the crew took to the desert alongside, while the captain and the mate
opened all cocks and sank her, not in the fairway but up against a bank, just leaving room
for a steamer to squeeze past. Then the Canal authorities wired to her charterers to know exactly
what there might be in her; and it is said that the reply kept them awake of nights, for it
was their business to blow her up.

Meantime, traffic had to go through, and a P. & O. steamer came along. There was the Canal;
there was the sunken wreck, marked by one elderly Arab in a little boat with a red flag, and
there was about five foot clearance on each side for the P. & O. She went through a-tiptoe,
because even fifty tons of dynamite will jar a boat, perceptibly, and the tramp held more--very
much more, not to mention detonators. By some absurd chance, almost the only passenger who
knew about the thing at the time was an old lady rather proud of the secret.

'Ah,' she said, in the middle of that agonised glide, 'you may depend upon it that if everybody
knew what, I know, they'd all be on the other side of the ship.'

Later on, the authorities blew up the tramp with infinite precautions from some two miles off,
for which reason she neither destroyed the Suez Canal nor dislocated the Sweet Water Canal
alongside, but merely dug out a hole a hundred feet or a hundred yards deep, and so vanished
from Lloyd's register.

But no stories could divert one long from the peculiarities of that amazing line which exists
strictly for itself. There was a bathroom (occupied) at the windy end of an open alleyway.
In due time the bather came out.

Said the steward, as he swabbed out the tub for his successor: 'That was the Chief Engineer.
'E's been some time. Must 'ave 'ad a mucky job below, this mornin'.'

I have a great admiration for Chief Engineers. They are men in authority, needing all the comforts
and aids that can possibly be given them--such as bathrooms of their own close to their own
cabins, where they can clean off at leisure.

It is not fair to mix them up with the ruck of passengers, nor is it done on real ships. Nor,
when a passenger wants a bath in the evening, do the stewards of real ships roll their eyes
like vergers in a cathedral and say, 'We'll see if it can be managed.' They double down the
alleyway and shout, 'Matcham' or 'Ponting' or 'Guttman,' and in fifteen seconds one of those
swift three has the taps going and the towels out. Real ships are not annexes of Westminster
Abbey or Borstal Reformatory. They supply decent accommodation in return for good money, and
I imagine that their directors instruct their staffs to look pleased while at work.

Some generations back there must have been an idea that the P. & O. was vastly superior to
all lines afloat--a sort of semipontifical show not to be criticised. How much of the notion
was due to its own excellence and how much to its passenger-traffic monopoly does not matter.
To-day, it neither feeds nor tends its passengers, nor keeps its ships well enough to put on
any airs at all.

For which reason, human nature being what it is, it surrounds itself with an ungracious atmosphere
of absurd ritual to cover grudged and inadequate performance.

What it really needs is to be dropped into a March North Atlantic, without any lascars, and
made to swim for its life between a C.P.R. boat and a North German Lloyd--till it learns to smile.

II

A RETURN TO THE EAST

The East is a much larger slice of the world than Europeans care to admit. Some say it begins
at St. Gothard, where the smells of two continents meet and fight all through that terrible
restaurant-car dinner in the tunnel. Others have found it at Venice on warm April mornings.
But the East is wherever one sees the lateen sail--that shark's fin of a rig which for hundreds
of years has dogged all white bathers round the Mediterranean. There is still a suggestion
of menace, a hint of piracy, in the blood whenever the lateen goes by, fishing or fruiting
or coasting.

'This is not my ancestral trade,' she whispers to the accomplice sea. 'If everybody had their
rights I should be doing something quite different; for my father, he was the Junk, and my
mother, she was the Dhow, and between the two of 'em they made Asia.' Then she tacks, disorderly
but deadly quick, and shuffles past the unimaginative steam-packet with her hat over one eye
and a knife, as it were, up her baggy sleeves.

Even the stone-boats at Port Said, busied on jetty extensions, show their untamed descent beneath
their loaded clumsiness. They are all children of the camel-nosed dhow, who is the mother of
mischief; but it was very good to meet them again in raw sunshine, unchanged in any rope and patch.

Old Port Said had disappeared beneath acres of new buildings where one could walk at leisure
without being turned back by soldiers.

Two or three landmarks remained; two or three were reported as still in existence, and one
Face showed itself after many years--ravaged but respectable--rigidly respectable.

'Yes,' said the Face, 'I have been here all the time. But I have made money, and when I die
I am going home to be buried.'

'Why not go home before you are buried, O Face?'

'Because I have lived here so long. Home is only good to be buried in.'

'And what do you do, nowadays?'

'Nothing now. I live on my rentes--my income.'

Think of it! To live icily in a perpetual cinematograph show of excited, uneasy travellers;
to watch huge steamers, sliding in and out all day and all night like railway trucks, unknowing
and unsought by a single soul aboard; to talk five or six tongues indifferently, but to have
no country--no interest in any earth except one reservation in a Continental cemetery.

It was a cold evening after heavy rain and the half-flooded streets reeked. But we undefeated
tourists ran about in droves and saw all that could be seen before train-time. We missed, most
of us, the Canal Company's garden, which happens to mark a certain dreadful and exact division
between East and West.

Up to that point--it is a fringe of palms, stiff against the sky--the impetus of home memories
and the echo of home interests carry the young man along very comfortably on his first journey.
But at Suez one must face things. People, generally the most sympathetic, leave the boat there;
the older men who are going on have discovered each other and begun to talk shop; no newspapers
come aboard, only clipped Reuter telegrams; the world seems cruelly large and self-absorbed.
One goes for a walk and finds this little bit of kept ground, with comfortable garden-gated
houses on either side of the path. Then one begins to wonder--in the twilight, for choice--when
one will see those palms again from the other side. Then the black hour of homesickness, vain
regrets, foolish promises, and weak despair shuts down with the smell of strange earth and
the cadence of strange tongues.

Cross-roads and halting-places in the desert are always favoured by djinns and afrits. The
young man will find them waiting for him in the Canal Company's garden at Port Said.

On the other hand, if he is fortunate enough to have won the East by inheritance, as there
are families who served her for five or six generations, he will meet no ghouls in that garden,
but a free and a friendly and an ample welcome from good spirits of the East that awaits him.
The voices of the gardeners and the watchmen will be as the greetings of his father's servants
in his father's house; the evening smells and the sight of the hibiscus and poinsettia will
unlock his tongue in words and sentences that he thought he had clean forgotten, and he will
go back to the ship (I have seen) as a prince entering on his kingdom.

There was a man in our company--a young Englishman--who had just been granted his heart's desire
in the shape of some raw district south of everything southerly in the Sudan, where, on two-thirds
of a member of Parliament's wage, under conditions of life that would horrify a self-respecting
operative, he will see perhaps some dozen white men in a year, and will certainly pick up two
sorts of fever. He had been moved to work very hard for this billet by the representations
of a friend in the same service, who said that it was a 'rather decent sort of service,' and
he was all of a heat to reach Khartum, report for duty, and fall to. If he is lucky, he may
get a district where the people are so virtuous that they do not know how to wear any clothes
at all, and so ignorant that they have never yet come across strong drink.

The train that took us to Cairo was own sister in looks and fittings to any South African train--for
which I loved her--but she was a trial to some citizens of the United States, who, being used
to the Pullman, did not understand the side-corridored, solid-compartment idea. The trouble
with a standardised democracy seems to be that, once they break loose from their standards,
they have no props. People are not left behind and luggage is rarely mislaid on the railroads
of the older world. There is an ordained ritual for the handling of all things, to which if
a man will only conform and keep quiet, he and his will be attended to with the rest. The people
that I watched would not believe this. They charged about futilely and wasted themselves in
trying to get ahead of their neighbours.

Here is a fragment from the restaurant-car: 'Look at here! Me and some friends of mine are
going to dine at this table. We don't want to be separated and--'

'You 'ave your number for the service, sar?' 'Number? What number? We want to dine here, I
tell you.'

'You shall get your number, sar, for the first service?'

'Haow's that? Where in thunder do we get the numbers, anyway?'

'I will give you the number, sar, at the time--for places at the first service.'

'Yes, but we want to dine together here--right now.'

'The service is not yet ready, sar.'

And so on--and so on; with marchings and counter-marchings, and every word nervously italicised.
In the end they dined precisely where there was room for them in that new world which they
had strayed into.

On one side our windows looked out on darkness of the waste; on the other at the black Canal,
all spaced with monstrous headlights of the night-running steamers. Then came towns, lighted
with electricity, governed by mixed commissions, and dealing in cotton. Such a town, for instance,
as Zagazig, last seen by a very small boy who was lifted out of a railway-carriage and set
down beneath a whitewashed wall under naked stars in an illimitable emptiness because, they
told him, the train was on fire. Childlike, this did not worry him. What stuck in his sleepy
mind was the absurd name of the place and his father's prophecy that when he grew up he would
'come that way in a big steamer.'

So all his life, the word 'Zagazig' carried memories of a brick shed, the flicker of an oil-lamp's
floating wick, a sky full of eyes, and an engine coughing in a desert at the world's end; which
memories returned in a restaurant-car jolting through what seemed to be miles of brilliantly
lighted streets and factories. No one at the table had even turned his head for the battlefields
of Kassassin and Tel-el-Kebir. After all, why should they? That work is done, and children
are getting ready to be born who will say: 'I can remember Gondokoro (or El-Obeid or some undreamed
of Clapham Junction, Abyssinia-way) before a single factory was started--before the overhead
traffic began. Yes, when there was a fever--actually fever--in the city itself!'

The gap is no greater than that between to-day's and t'other day's Zagazig--between the horsed
vans of the Overland Route in Lieutenant Waghorn's time and the shining motor that flashed
us to our Cairo hotel through what looked like the suburbs of Marseilles or Rome.

Always keep a new city till morning, 'In the daytime,' as it is written in the Perspicuous
Book,[6] 'thou hast long occupation,' Our window gave on to the river, but before one moved
toward it one heard the thrilling squeal of the kites--those same thievish Companions of the
Road who, at that hour, were watching every Englishman's breakfast in every compound and camp
from Cairo to Calcutta.

[Footnote 6: The Koran.]

Voices rose from below--unintelligible words in maddeningly familiar accents. A black boy in
one blue garment climbed, using his toes as fingers, the tipped mainyard of a Nile boat and
framed himself in the window. Then, because he felt happy, he sang, all among the wheeling
kites. And beneath our balcony rolled very Nile Himself, golden in sunshine, wrinkled under
strong breezes, with a crowd of creaking cargo-boats waiting for a bridge to be opened.

On the cut-stone quay above, a line of cab drivers--a ticca-gharri stand, nothing less--lolled
and chaffed and tinkered with their harnesses in every beautiful attitude of the ungirt East.
All the ground about was spotted with chewed sugarcane--first sign of the hot weather all the
world over.

Troops with startlingly pink faces (one would not have noticed this yesterday) rolled over
the girder bridge between churning motors and bubbling camels, and the whole long-coated loose-sleeved
Moslem world was awake and about its business, as befits sensible people who pray at dawn.

I made haste to cross the bridge and to hear the palms in the wind on the far side. They sang
as nobly as though they had been true coconuts, and the thrust of the north wind behind them
was almost as open-handed as the thrust of the Trades. Then came a funeral--the sheeted corpse
on the shallow cot, the brisk-pacing bearers (if he was good, the sooner he is buried the sooner
in heaven; if bad, bury him swiftly for the sake of the household--either way, as the Prophet
says, do not let the mourners go too long weeping and hungry)--the women behind, tossing their
arms and lamenting, and men and boys chanting low and high.

They might have come forth from the Taksali Gate in the city of Lahore on just such a cold
weather morning as this, on their way to the Mohammedan burial-grounds by the river. And the
veiled countrywomen, shuffling side by side, elbow pressed to hip, and eloquent right hand
pivoting round, palm uppermost, to give value to each shrill phrase, might have been the wives
of so many Punjabi cultivators but that they wore another type of bangle and slipper. A knotty-kneed
youth sitting high on a donkey, both amuleted against the evil eye, chewed three purplish-feet
of sugar-cane, which made one envious as well as voluptuously homesick, though the sugar-cane
of Egypt is not to be compared with that of Bombay.

Hans Breitmann writes somewhere:

    Oh, if you live in Leyden town
  You'll meet, if troot be told,
    Der forms of all der freunds dot tied
  When du werst six years old.

And they were all there under the chanting palms--saices, orderlies, pedlars, water-carriers,
street-cleaners, chicken-sellers and the slate-coloured buffalo with the china-blue eyes being
talked to by a little girl with the big stick. Behind the hedges of well-kept gardens squatted
the brown gardener, making trenches indifferently with a hoe or a toe, and under the municipal
lamp-post lounged the bronze policeman--a touch of Arab about mouth and lean nostril--quite
unconcerned with a ferocious row between two donkey-men. They were fighting across the body
of a Nubian who had chosen to sleep in that place. Presently, one of them stepped back on the
sleeper's stomach. The Nubian grunted, elbowed himself up, rolled his eyes, and pronounced
a few utterly dispassionate words. The warriors stopped, settled their headgear, and went away
as quickly as the Nubian went to sleep again. This was life, the real, unpolluted stuff--worth
a desert-full of mummies. And right through the middle of it--hooting and kicking up the Nile--passed
a Cook's steamer all ready to take tourists to Assuan. From the Nubian's point of view she,
and not himself, was the wonder--as great as the Swiss-controlled, Swiss-staffed hotel behind
her, whose lift, maybe, the Nubian helped to run. Marids, and afrits, guardians of hidden gold,
who choke or crush the rash seeker; encounters with the long-buried dead in a Cairo back-alley;
undreamed-of promotions, and suddenly lit loves are the stuff of any respectable person's daily
life; but the white man from across the water, arriving in hundreds with his unveiled womenfolk,
who builds himself flying-rooms and talks along wires, who flees up and down the river, mad
to sit upon camels and asses, constrained to throw down silver from both hands--at once a child
and a warlock--this thing must come to the Nubian sheer out of the Thousand and One Nights.
At any rate, the Nubian was perfectly sane. Having eaten, he slept in God's own sunlight, and
I left him, to visit the fortunate and guarded and desirable city of Cairo, to whose people,
male and female, Allah has given subtlety in abundance. Their jesters are known to have surpassed
in refinement the jesters of Damascus, as did their twelve police captains the hardiest and
most corrupt of Bagdad in the tolerant days of Harun-al-Raschid; while their old women, not
to mention their young wives, could deceive the Father of Lies himself. Delhi is a great place--most
bazaar storytellers in India make their villain hail from there; but when the agony and intrigue
are piled highest and the tale halts till the very last breathless sprinkle of cowries has
ceased to fall on his mat, why then, with wagging head and hooked forefinger, the storyteller
goes on:

'But there was a man from Cairo, an Egyptian of the Egyptians, who'--and all the crowd knows
that a bit of real metropolitan devilry is coming.

III

A SERPENT OF OLD NILE

Modern Cairo is an unkempt place. The streets are dirty and ill-constructed, the pavements
unswept and often broken, the tramways thrown, rather than laid, down, the gutters neglected.
One expects better than this in a city where the tourist spends so much every season. Although Pulcheria possessed, not only this planet we inhabit, but
all other planets and the stars and the heavens, would not own more than a crude imitation the
Universe, as he contemplates the Demiurge in the Paradigm, before removing the copy or transport.
But I am inclined to suspect that you are a fool, and you do not understand or understand ever
these things.

EUMORFO .-- Never sulfides, maestro. If I do not understand these things easier to understand
other and enjoyable to understand. Asclepigenia will perhaps his Demiurge and his mysterious
Paradigm that you understand and possess, but its skies, the planets
and stars are mine since few months.

PROCLEAN .-- What word did you say?

EUMORFO Asclepigenia philosophy .-- I said to you, that does not want you ever wanted to endanger; but
to me there is no danger that meet.

PROCLEAN .-- By the gods above and below, which come from one long
series, I confess it hurts me so just discovered.

However, everything is explained satisfactorily in my system. Things are as they are, and can
not be better than they are because, as they are, are perfect according to their degree.

EUMORFO .-- Take comfort in that twister.

PROCLEAN .-- And why not comfort me? Asclepigenia and I, with the free will of our souls were
ready to love, and we love and loving go on and on forever, with the help of divine favor, that
comes to us by virtue of prayer. Against this, nothing can you, nothing may your peers. There
are, nevertheless, in the outpouring of the soul's powers, some body
that is subject to fate.

This is what I'm in Asclepigenia. I Fate he steals. The free will of it has not been quite spirited
to defend heroically.

But the discord between free will and fate is finally dominated by
Providence which will purify all, reducing it to the heavenly and
wonderful harmony which almost touches and confused with the One hiperhipostático.

EUMORFO

.-- Your speech sounds as a stranger in my profane ears, which leads
me to believe or If you are a marvel of semi-divine wisdom, or you're
stark raving mad.

SCENE VI.

SUCH, MARINO.

MARINO .-- A respectable old man asked
permission to come to talk. But it is a fascinating play. There are Frenchmen in it, whose logical mind it offends,
and they revenge themselves by printing the finance-reports and the catalogue of the Bulak
Museum in pure French. There are Germans in it, whose demands must be carefully weighed--not
that they can by any means be satisfied, but they serve to block other people's. There are
Russians in it, who do not very much matter at present but will be heard from later. There
are Italians and Greeks in it (both rather pleased with themselves just now), full of the higher
finance and the finer emotions. There are Egyptian pashas in it, who come back from Paris at
intervals and ask plaintively to whom they are supposed to belong. There is His Highness, the
Khedive, in it, and he must be considered not a little, and there are women in it, up to their
eyes. And there are great English cotton and sugar interests, and angry English importers clamouring
to know why they cannot do business on rational lines or get into the Sudan, which they hold
is ripe for development if the administration there would only see reason. Among these conflicting
interests and amusements sits and perspires the English official, whose job is irrigating or
draining or reclaiming land on behalf of a trifle of ten million people, and he finds himself
tripped up by skeins of intrigue and bafflement which may ramify through half a dozen harems
and four consulates. All this makes for suavity, toleration, and the blessed habit of not being
surprised at anything whatever.

Or, so it seemed to me, watching a big dance at one of the hotels. Every European race and
breed, and half of the United States were represented, but I fancied I could make out three
distinct groupings. The tourists with the steamer-trunk creases still across their dear, excited
backs; the military and the officials sure of their partners beforehand, and saying clearly
what ought to be said; and a third contingent, lower-voiced, softer-footed, and keener-eyed
than the other two, at ease, as gipsies are on their own ground, flinging half-words in local
argot over shoulders at their friends, understanding on the nod and moved by springs common
to their clan only. For example, a woman was talking flawless English to her partner, an English
officer. Just before the next dance began, another woman beckoned to her, Eastern fashion,
all four fingers flicking downward. The first woman crossed to a potted palm; the second moved
toward it also, till the two drew, up, not looking at each other, the plant between them. Then
she who had beckoned spoke in a strange tongue at the palm. The first woman, still looking
away, answered in the same fashion with a rush of words that rattled like buckshot through
the stiff fronds. Her tone had nothing to do with that in which she greeted her new partner,
who came up as the music began. The one was a delicious drawl; the other had been the guttural
rasp and click of the kitchen and the bazaar. So she moved off, and, in a little, the second
woman disappeared into the crowd. Most likely it was no more than some question of the programme
or dress, but the prompt, feline stealth and coolness of it, the lightning-quick return to
and from world-apart civilisations stuck in my memory.

So did the bloodless face of a very old Turk, fresh from some horror of assassination in Constantinople
in which he, too, had been nearly pistolled, but, they said, he had argued quietly over the
body of a late colleague, as one to whom death was of no moment, until the hysterical Young
Turks were abashed and let him get away--to the lights and music of this elegantly appointed hotel.

These modern 'Arabian Nights' are too hectic for quiet folk. I declined upon a more rational
Cairo--the Arab city where everything is as it was when Maruf the Cobbler fled from Fatima-el-Orra
and met the djinn in the Adelia Musjid. The craftsmen and merchants sat on their shop-boards,
a rich mystery of darkness behind them, and the narrow gullies were polished to shoulder-height
by the mere flux of people. Shod white men, unless they are agriculturists, touch lightly,
with their hands at most, in passing. Easterns lean and loll and squat and sidle against things
as they daunder along. 

The Count said that other men would come to reinforce the crew at the time of departure. This was
going to be as soon as the load is finished. Had to take precautions not to attract attention.

-
Anyway, whether you are soon to embark, Captain.

May alert you with only a few hours of progress.

At night, talking to Freya, Ulysses was amazed how quickly the doctor had found a vessel, making their
discretion charge of all details of this business that take place easily and mysteriously
in the same mouth of a great port, no one realize it.

Her lover proudly said that Germany could drive their business well. It was Dr. which wrought
such wonders. All Germanic merchants of Naples and Sicily had given help ... And convinced that
the captain was about to be alerted at any moment, started Order your luggage, arranging a small
suitcase that was to accompany him on the short voyage.

By next evening the count came to fetch him.

Everything was ready: the expected ship his captain.

Dr. Ulysses fired with a certain solemnity. They were in the room, and gave an order Freya
quietly. This came to return immediately with a long narrow bottle. Old wine of the Rhine was
a gift from a dealer in Naples, which kept the doctor to an extraordinary
occasion.

He filled four glasses, and took his, looked around her with indecision.

-
Where falls the North?

The count said quietly.

Then the lady was raising his glass with solemn slowness, as if he offered a religious libation
to the mysterious power hidden in the North, far, far away.

Kaledine imitated gesture with the same fervor.

Ulysses was about
to take the cup to his lips, trying to hide a principle of laughter
caused the seriousness of the imposing lady.

- Do the same as them
- Freya whispered in his ear. Harun-al-Raschid, in roaring Bagdad of old, never
delighted himself to the limits of such a delight as was mine, that afternoon. It is true that
the call to prayer, the cadence of some of the street-cries, and the cut of some of the garments
differed a little from what I had been brought up to; but for the rest, the shadow on the dial
had turned back twenty degrees for me, and I found myself saying, as perhaps the dead say when
they have recovered their wits, 'This is my real world again,'

Some men are Mohammedan by birth, some by training, and some by fate, but I have never met
an Englishman yet who hated Islam and its people as I have met Englishmen who hated some other
faiths. Musalmani awadani, as the saying goes--where there are Mohammedans, there is a comprehensible
civilisation.

Then we came upon a deserted mosque of pitted brick colonnades round a vast courtyard open
to the pale sky. It was utterly empty except for its own proper spirit, and that caught one
by the throat as one entered. Christian churches may compromise with images and side-chapels
where the unworthy or abashed can traffic with accessible saints. Islam has but one pulpit
and one stark affirmation--living or dying, one only--and where men have repeated that in red-hot
belief through centuries, the air still shakes to it.

Some say now that Islam is dying and that nobody cares; others that, if she withers in Europe
and Asia, she will renew herself in Africa and will return--terrible--after certain years,
at the head of all the nine sons of Ham; others dream that the English understand Islam as
no one else does, and, in years to be, Islam will admit this and the world will be changed.
If you go to the mosque Al Azhar--the thousand-year-old University of Cairo--you will be able
to decide for yourself. There is nothing to see except many courts, cool in hot weather, surrounded
by cliff-like brick walls. Men come and go through dark doorways, giving on to yet darker cloisters,
as freely as though the place was a bazaar. There are no aggressive educational appliances.
The students sit on the ground, and their teachers instruct them, mostly by word of mouth,
in grammar, syntax, logic; al-hisab, which is arithmetic; al-jab'r w'al muqabalah, which is
algebra; at-tafsir, commentaries on the Koran, and last and most troublesome, al-ahadis, traditions,
and yet more commentaries on the law of Islam, which leads back, like everything, to the Koran
once again. (For it is written, 'Truly the Quran is none other than a revelation.') It is a
very comprehensive curriculum. No man can master it entirely, but any can stay there as long
as he pleases. The university provides commons--twenty-five thousand loaves a day, I believe,--and
there is always a place to lie down in for such as do not desire a shut room and a bed. Nothing
could be more simple or, given certain conditions, more effective. Close upon six hundred professors,
who represent officially or unofficially every school or thought, teach ten or twelve thousand
students, who draw from every Mohammedan community, west and east between Manila and Morocco,
north and south between Kamchatka and the Malay mosque at Cape Town. These drift off to become
teachers of little schools, preachers at mosques, students of the Law known to millions (but
rarely to Europeans), dreamers, devotees, or miracle-workers in all the ends of the earth.
The man who interested me most was a red-bearded, sunk-eyed mullah from the Indian frontier,
not likely to be last at any distribution of food, who stood up like a lean wolfhound among
collies in a little assembly at a doorway.

And there was another mosque, sumptuously carpeted and lighted (which the Prophet does not
approve of), where men prayed in the dull mutter that, at times, mounts and increases under
the domes like the boom of drums or the surge of a hot hive before the swarm flings out. And
round the corner of it, one almost ran into Our inconspicuous and wholly detached Private of
Infantry, his tunic open, his cigarette alight, leaning against some railings and considering
the city below. Men in forts and citadels and garrisons all the world over go up at twilight
as automatically as sheep at sundown, to have a last look round. They say little and return
as silently across the crunching gravel, detested by bare feet, to their whitewashed rooms
and regulated lives. One of the men told me he thought well of Cairo. It was interesting. 'Take
it from me,' he said, 'there's a lot in seeing places, because you can remember 'em afterward.'

He was very right. The purple and lemon-coloured hazes of dusk and reflected day spread over
the throbbing, twinkling streets, masked the great outline of the citadel and the desert hills,
and conspired to confuse and suggest and evoke memories, till Cairo the Sorceress cast her
proper shape and danced before me in the heartbreaking likeness of every city I had known and
loved, a little farther up the road.

It was a cruel double-magic. For in the very hour that my homesick soul had surrendered itself
to the dream of the shadow that had turned back on the dial, I realised all the desolate days
and homesickness of all the men penned in far-off places among strange sounds and smells.

IV

UP THE RIVER

Once upon a time there was a murderer who got off with a life-sentence. What impressed him
most, when he had time to think, was the frank boredom of all who took part in the ritual.

'It was just like going to a doctor or a dentist,' he explained. 'You come to 'em very full
of your affairs, and then you discover that it's only part of their daily work to them. I expect,'
he added, 'I should have found it the same if--er--I'd gone on to the finish.'

He would have. Break into any new Hell or Heaven and you will be met at its well-worn threshold
by the bored experts in attendance.

For three weeks we sat on copiously chaired and carpeted decks, carefully isolated from everything
that had anything to do with Egypt, under chaperonage of a properly orientalised dragoman.
Twice or thrice daily, our steamer drew up at a mud-bank covered with donkeys. Saddles were
hauled out of a hatch in our bows; the donkeys were dressed, dealt round like cards: we rode
off through crops or desert, as the case might be, were introduced in ringing tones to a temple,
and were then duly returned to our bridge and our Baedekers. For sheer comfort, not to say
padded sloth, the life was unequalled, and since the bulk of our passengers were citizens of
the United States--Egypt in winter ought to be admitted into the Union as a temporary territory--there
was no lack of interest. They were overwhelmingly women, with here and there a placid nose-led
husband or father, visibly suffering from congestion of information about his native city.
I had the joy of seeing two such men meet. They turned their backs resolutely on the River,
bit and lit cigars, and for one hour and a quarter ceased not to emit statistics of the industries,
commerce, manufacture, transport, and journalism of their towns;--Los Angeles, let us say,
and Rochester, N.Y. It sounded like a duel between two cash-registers.

One forgot, of course, that all the dreary figures were alive to them, and as Los Angeles spoke
Rochester visualised. Next day I met an Englishman from the Soudan end of things, very full
of a little-known railway which had been laid down in what had looked like raw desert, and
therefore had turned out to be full of paying freight. He was in the full-tide of it when Los
Angeles ranged alongside and cast anchor, fascinated by the mere roll of numbers.

'Haow's that?' he cut in sharply at a pause.

He was told how, and went on to drain my friend dry concerning that railroad, out of sheer
fraternal interest, as he explained, in 'any darn' thing that's being made anywheres,'

'So you see,' my friend went on, 'we shall be bringing Abyssinian cattle into Cairo.'

'On the hoof?' One quick glance at the Desert ranges.

'No, no! By rail and River. And after that we're going to grow cotton between the Blue and
the White Nile and knock spots out of the States.'

'Ha-ow's that?'

'This way.' The speaker spread his first and second fingers fanwise under the big, interested
beak. 'That's the Blue Nile. And that's the White. There's a difference of so many feet between
'em, an' in that fork here, 'tween my fingers, we shall--'

'I see. Irrigate on the strength of the little difference in the levels. How many acres?'

Again Los Angeles was told. He expanded like a frog in a shower. 'An' I thought,' he murmured,
'Egypt was all mummies and the Bible! I used to know something about cotton. Now we'll talk.'

All that day the two paced the deck with the absorbed insolente of lovers; and, lover-like,
each would steal away and tell me what a splendid soul was his companion. Isabel Bourbon
succeeded her husband in private conferences to hear his mother Dona Ana Guevara, who was always seen,
the Conde de Castrillo and especially the Duchess of Mantua that recently arrived from Portugal,
I would say the real causes of the loss of that kingdom, giving these interviews resulted in
the following January when it came to choosing bondage and fourth in the Palace for the Prince
Baltasar Carlos, who was already looking, the King imposed its will on private vigorously, first
naming the servants who wanted, and as regards the room saying, "Why Conde will be better at that
than you are now living, which is typical of the firstborn of the King and he was my father
and me was when we were princes? Desocupadlo immediately, and take home from Palace. " Won the Queen
gave Olivares the secret key that the camera was real and came from Madrid, apparently with permission
to retire to his villa in Loeches, actually threatened, if she did not leave soon, that Felipe
IV made him what his father had done to Don Rodrigo Calderon. Like all has been in a position
to do favors, would Olivares ungrateful in court, but it was not Velázquez them, as almost
all his biographers assert that he remained loyal to the fallen and some clearly states that
he visited during his exile.

Jobs played in Hall also forced him to travel in 1644 to accompany the King.

Lleida besieged by the French, Philip IV took the field in awe of his contemporaries that, praising
him a lot, leave as stated in numerous writings, referring to details of the trappings that went
down, telling that the soldier was dressed in yellow and red, which took given part in the battle
to lift the siege of Lerida and entered it in triumph with costume "buff, silver and gold embroidery,
gold embroidered red band and pearl white hat." Prior to the win the royal party remained
several weeks in Fraga: there was enabled a study in a local so bad that we had to shore it
up, they fell on the floor loads bulrush, and in three days did a portrait Velázquez SM to
be sent to Madrid with that very colorful dress that came into the city surrendered. They also
portrayed the dwarf called Cousin, who was in the procession, and
who, with others of their ilk, will speak later.

Died that same year, 1644 Isabel de Borbón, whose intelligence and perhaps noble purposes have
managed to overcome the phlegmatic, indolent condition of her husband, made the new journey accompanied
by the Prince Don Baltasar Carlos as heir to the throne I swear the Parliament of Aragon and
Valencia, and with them went Velazquez, but this issue books and papers is interesting news
to our purpose: rather than as a painter, would as a servant, which proves one of two things:
it was so little master of himself, he could not avoid those occupations
unworthy of his genius, or that the King was not considered as happened
without him.

In 1646 Philip IV solves another trip to the lands of Aragon and Navarra by the day and also
leading to the Prince. Velazquez goes with them, this time accompanied by Mazo, who request of Don
Baltasar Carlos depicts the view of Pamplona, ​​the table remains, and the Zaragoza, who is in
the Museo del Prado, which are hand of his father, though they deny foreign critics as illustrious
as Armstrong and Justi, extremely elegant figures of the first term,
made with remarkable ease and grace, addressed so that, despite its
size, have the appearance and character of natural [53].

Unfortunately ended this trip, as the Prince died in Zaragoza to October 9, lacking only a few days
to meet seventeen. A peculiar thing related to knowledge worth the time knowing that the Dutch
gentleman Aarsens of Somerdyck, which came shortly later to Spain, regardless of the cause of
the disease, saying that Don Pedro of Aragon, gentle Man of the House of SA, let him spend a night with
a prostitute, of which it originated great weakness and fever: doctors, unaware of the origin of
the disease, bled, accelerating death, and Don Pedro, by consent or not to reveal too much early,
fell from grace though it was private brother, castigándosele with no return to the court and to
live obligándosele at one end of the city without being allowed to make or receive visits ostentation
[54]. As the natives of other nations who come to our own travel writing course his impressions
and adventures not often distinguished by careful and truthful, but err on neglected and lying,
it could be that the Prince did not die of what the Dutch referred. Fray Juan Martinez, who was
confessor to the King and was in Zaragoza when the sad event, Dr. Andrew wrote at length saying
that the disease was smallpox [55]. Instead Matías de Novoa, in his History of Philip IV, narrates
the death with extreme brevity. The letter In those days the King wrote to Sister Mary of
Agreda test on his aching soul for such a great misfortune, Christian resignation prevailed and
triumphed over the pain of a father. Two years later, excluding other links with Ana Maria
de Bourbon, Duchess of Montpensier with Princess Leonor of Mantua and an Archduchess of Inspruck,
his wife agreed to niece, Dona Mariana of Austria, whose marriage was arranged with the poor before
Prince dead in Zaragoza.

All authors who have written the history of fine arts in Spain have that, having attempted
to collect sales tax tribute to painters, the latter, represented by Angelo Nardi and Vicente Carducho,
litigated to demand that the painting was considered an exempt liberal arts. Statements made
on that occasion by eminent men are curious. Dr. Juan Rodriguez de León witnessed with the Holy
Scripture, that the painting came from Heaven, as revealed, for God commanded Ezekiel to paint
the city of God in a brick brought out that Cosimo de Medici, went to Spoleto to bury Fra Filipo
Lippi and spoke estimation afforded by Charles I to Titian, and by Philip II to Sofonisba Cremonense.
Lope de Vega said: "Outside wrong that makes our nation, the other would be taken Barbados, not
believing for art that is with so much veneration in Europe. "Don Juan the Jauregui said that "make
use of the hands is no accident that does not offend the wit and ingenuity Desta sum science,
but having to achieve their effects in the eyes of all uses of colors and hands as he and philosopher
of pen and ink. " The Master Joseph Valdez spoke of what John Bellino honored seniority of Venice,
Durer Emperor Maximilian Andrea Mantegna, the Marquis of Mantua, and Raphael Pope Leo X, and Don
Antonio de Leon, rapporteur the Supreme Council of the Indies, after considering the issue
as a lawyer, wrote in the style of the time that "when human industry, with glimpses of divine
and a spell of eyes, in fantastic shapes, fulfilling the most noble of the senses steal the brushes
to nature, and apparently does not yet soul has a body, what law, what reason can deny the most
singular privilege or less restrained exemption? A much eminence gave the mechanical imposition
of the sales tax. "

When Velazquez was living in Madrid is a curious book printed [56] where all this has, and in
1633 the Treasury Board ruled the suit pursuant to the desire of painters. Does need more
to understand that the enlightened men of that time, although they express with such twisted
statements, knew and proclaimed the respect it deserves art. Despite Diego Velázquez which
was still more than a painter, servant of the King, or rather, was a servant who painted. And
it does not allege in excuse of Philip IV that does not honor otherwise part of a common error
to his contemporaries. What is not without grace is that almost all the characters who contributed to
that information thought to flatter the King consigning SM also painted.

This

was the years passed, no one tried to collect sales tax painters, Velazquez, dignified even
after his art with the famous relief, continued to appear on the payroll Alcazar's servers.
Evidence that is not distinguished and were pampered sites it was intended in bullfights, in
which they were entitled to attend many Palacio dependent. In the runs of 1640 he was appointed
seat on the fourth floor Bakery House, appearing in the same list as the groom of the Conde-Duque,
barbers Chamber, merchants and servants of the King of the Marquis del Carpio. In 1648, his name is
better company, is on the fourth floor, at the Puerta de Guadalajara, GREFi near the Tuson.
When King did not attend the order was exchanged, and then I could sit on the third floor houses the
Bakery cuddle near the grooms SM, some senior officials of state, doctors and the deputy House
packer more [57].

Apparently not important in the study of his life as an artist the
nature of the charges played, but if we look to serve the time wasted
on that could exploit painting, are what posterity will have lost it.

Was usher from 1627 to 1634, aid wardrobe until 1643, no exercise,
and with him until 1645; valet without exercise from 1643 to 1646.

Upon returning to Madrid, after Zaragoza last day, would make the annoying chores typical of such
sinecure; most of which were deeply imbued with the concerns of the time, that being a servant
of His Majesty looked so honored that up on the covers of his works to record writers was
natural that wanted some rest and freedom according to their inclinations and temperament artist.
After having gone several times with the royal entourage touring the provinces, where what could
be gradually learn, perhaps think, although it was already forty-nine, according to your taste
in travel, study and enjoyment. The fact of having appointed overseer works that were made in the
old tower of the Alcázar to make octagonal piece of speaking real archival documents, must
promote its purpose, and perhaps would contribute to determine the pictures come up to acquire
King for ornament of that part of the palace that was reforming. The fact is that in practical
discourse, talking about Velazquez Martínez Jusepe account the following: "SM Propúsole I wanted to
do a gallery adorned paintings, and for this we seek master painters to choose from them the
best ' to which he replied: "Your Majesty must not have pictures that each man may take them."
His Majesty replied: "How must this be?" And Velazquez said: "I dare, sir, (if VM gives me license),
go to Rome and Venice to find the best pictures and fairs who are Titian, Paolo Veronese,
Bashan, Raphael Urbino, the Parmesan and the like, which of these such paintings are very few princes
who have them, and in such quantity as V. M. diligence will I do, and more that will need to
decorate the lower parts antique statues, and we could have not be emptied and females bring Spain,
to empty after every performance here. "" SM diol license - just saying Martinez - to return
to Italy with all the necessary facilities and credit. "

Judging by the many beautiful works of art brought to the King, this was the cause of his second
trip to Italy not as noted by some to be decided by then found Academy in Madrid projected in the
previous reign.

Before starting out, trying pool resources, called paid him arrears owed some consideration
to who was not lavishly paid, and because they see how far the disorder in the administration
of the royal house, here is the order issued by Philip IV to collect:

"Diego Velázquez has shown me that the paintings he has done for my service since the year 628
to 640, and the tricks of a painter of the years from 630 to 634,
failed the entry, you must subtract 34,000 real, because otherwise
been paid in I sent him 500 ducats in the regular wage of the waiver
for months, from 640, pleading to be served in order that these 500
ducats will meet at 700 and are paid in the same consignment until
your liking to accommodate you in anything equivalent to being able
to support, that will be satisfied of this debt and other paintings
he has done and do that on, and I have come to give what he asks,
the Bureo provide that well run, preventing the necessary arrangements.

Madrid May 18, 1648. (Category of King). "

Until five months she did Bureo case: Finally, in October the same year marked the decree.

Hallab then prepared to leave Madrid embassy headed by very numerous the Duke of Nájera and escorted
by twenty-four soldiers of the Spanish guards had to pick Trento to the Archduchess Dona Mariana
of Austria, the future wife of the King. Many people would with Duke over other lords, was in
his company upholsterer, pastry beds, pharmacists, usher of tubers and greengrocers official
[58].

Without doubt walk more comfortably and safely, Velazquez joined the procession and this made
say good Palomino "was sent by His Majesty's Ambassador Extraordinary
to Italy the Pope Innocent X ".

The truth is that King, in order of November 25, 1648, ordered than "Diego Velázquez to his
valet about this trip to Italy, to things of the Royal service, you give the coach he plays for his
office, and a pack horse to carry more some paintings' in which, accompanied by his slave [59]
Juan de Pareja, Madrid, left November 16 and arrived in Malaga where the fleet sailed, Thursday
January 21, 1649.

The trip should not be entirely happy, because Mascarene referring to one of the galleys Fleet,
said he suffered serious storm in the Gulf of Lions, being necessary to throw the Water artillery,
and another came in Genoa when everyone thought lost. Genoa passed Milan Velazquez "but did not
stop to see the entrance to the Queen to be prevented with great display ... no longer see the
Last Supper of Christ with his apostles, the successful work of hand Leonardo de Vinci 'very
natural feature on an artist who talks about being sick of the ceremonies palate of the Court
of the Habsburgs. Padua passed quickly and stood in Venice, where spent twelve thousand crowns
in five tables and tried in vain to move like Pedro de Cortona Spain at the service of Philip
IV, getting, instead, that they did some time after Colonna and Mitelli.
 The Dynasty proves
it.' So A's cup is poisoned--till next year.

No collector or curator of a museum should have any moral scruples whatever; and I have never
met one who had; though I have been informed by deeply-shocked informants of four nationalities
that the Germans are the most flagrant pirates of all.

The business of exploration is about as romantic as earth-work on Indian railways. There are
the same narrow-gauge trams and donkeys, the same shining gangs in the borrow-pits and the
same skirling dark-blue crowds of women and children with the little earth-baskets. But the
hoes are not driven in, nor the clods jerked aside at random, and when the work fringes along
the base of some mighty wall, men use their hands carefully. A white man--or he was white at
breakfast-time--patrols through the continually renewed dust-haze. Weeks may pass without a
single bead, but anything may turn up at any moment, and it is his to answer the shout of discovery.

We had the good fortune to stay a while at the Headquarters of the Metropolitan Museum (New
York) in a valley riddled like a rabbit-warren with tombs. Their stables, store-houses, and
servants' quarters are old tombs; their talk is of tombs, and their dream (the diggers' dream
always) is to discover a virgin tomb where the untouched dead lie with their jewels upon them.
Four miles away are the wide-winged, rampant hotels. Here is nothing whatever but the rubbish
of death that died thousands of years ago, on whose grave no green thing has ever grown. Villages,
expert in two hundred generations of grave-robbing, cower among the mounds of wastage, and
whoop at the daily tourist. Paths made by bare feet run from one half-tomb, half-mud-heap to
the next, not much more distinct than snail smears, but they have been used since....

Time is a dangerous thing to play with. That morning the concierge had toiled for us among
steamer-sailings to see if we could save three days. That evening we sat with folk for whom
Time had stood still since the Ptolemies. I wondered, at first, how it concerned them or any
man if such and such a Pharaoh had used to his own glory the plinths and columns of such another
Pharaoh before or after Melchizedek. Their whole background was too inconceivably remote for
the mind to work on. But the next morning we were taken to the painted tomb of a noble--a Minister
of Agriculture--who died four or five thousand years ago. He said to me, in so many words:
'Observe I was very like your friend, the late Mr. Samuel Pepys, of your Admiralty. I took
an enormous interest in life, which I most thoroughly enjoyed, on its human and on its spiritual
side. I do not think you will find many departments of State better managed than mine, or a
better-kept house, or a nicer set of young people ... My daughters! The eldest, as you can
see, takes after her mother. The youngest, my favourite, is supposed to favour me. Now I will
show you all the things that I did, and delighted in, till it was time for me to present my
accounts elsewhere.' And he showed me, detail by detail, in colour and in drawing, his cattle,
his horses, his crops, his tours in the district, his accountants presenting the revenue returns,
and he himself, busiest of the busy, in the good day.

But when we left that broad, gay ante-room and came to the narrower passage where once his
body had lain and where all his doom was portrayed, I could not follow him so well. I did not
see how he, so experienced in life, could be cowed by friezes of brute-headed apparitions or
satisfied by files of repeated figures. He explained, something to this effect:

'We live on the River--a line without breadth or thickness. Behind us is the Desert, which
nothing can affect; wither no man goes till he is dead, (One does not use good agricultural
ground for cemeteries.) Practically, then, we only move in two dimensions--up stream or down.
Take away the Desert, which we don't consider any more than a healthy man considers death,
and you will see that we have no background whatever. Our world is all one straight bar of
brown or green earth, and, for some months, mere sky-reflecting water that wipes out everything
You have only to look at the Colossi to realise how enormously and extravagantly man and his
works must scale in such a country. Remember too, that our crops are sure, and our life is
very, very easy. Above all, we have no neighbours That is to say, we must give out, for we
cannot take in. Now, I put it to you, what is left for a priest with imagination, except to
develop ritual and multiply gods on friezes? Unlimited leisure, limited space of two dimensions,
divided by the hypnotising line of the River, and bounded by visible, unalterable death--must,
ipso facto----'

'Even so,' I interrupted. 'I do not comprehend your Gods--your direct worship of beasts, for
instance?'

'You prefer the indirect? The worship of Humanity with a capital H? My Gods, or what I saw
in them, contented me.'

'What did you see in your Gods as affecting belief and conduct?'

'You know the answer to the riddle of the Sphinx?'

'No,' I murmured. 'What is it?'

'"All sensible men are of the same religion, but no sensible man ever tells,"' he replied.
With that I had to be content, for the passage ended in solid rock.

There were other tombs in the valley, but the owners were dumb, except one Pharaoh, who from
the highest motives had broken with the creeds and instincts of his country, and so had all
but wrecked it. One of his discoveries was an artist, who saw men not on one plane but modelled
full or three-quarter face, with limbs suited to their loads and postures. His vividly realised
stuff leaped to the eye out of the acreage of low-relief in the old convention, and I applauded
as a properly brought-up tourist should.

'Mine was a fatal mistake,' Pharaoh Ahkenaton sighed in my ear,' I mistook the conventions
of life for the realities.'

'Ah, those soul-crippling conventions!' I cried.

'You mistake me,' he answered more stiffly. 'I was so sure of their reality that I thought
that they were really lies, whereas they were only invented to cover the raw facts of life.'

'Ah, those raw facts of life!' I cried, still louder; for it is not often that one has a chance
of impressing a Pharaoh.' We must face them with open eyes and an open mind! Did you?'

'I had no opportunity of avoiding them,' he replied. 'I broke every convention in my land.'

'Oh, noble! And what happened?'

'What happens when you strip the cover off a hornet's nest? The raw fact of life is that mankind
is just a little lower than the angels, and the conventions are based on that fact in order
that men may become angels. But if you begin, as I did, by the convention that men are angels
they will assuredly become bigger beasts than ever.'

'That,' I said firmly, 'is altogether out-of-date. You should have brought a larger mentality,
a more vital uplift, and--er--all that sort of thing, to bear on--all that sort of thing, you
know.'

'I did,' said Ahkenaton gloomily. 'It broke me!' And he, too, went dumb among the ruins.

There is a valley of rocks and stones in every shade of red and brown, called the Valley of
the Kings, where a little oil-engine coughs behind its hand all day long, grinding electricity
to light the faces of dead Pharaohs a hundred feet underground. All down the valley, during
the tourist season, stand char-a-bancs and donkeys and sand-carts, with here and there exhausted
couples who have dropped out of the processions and glisten and fan themselves in some scrap
of shade. Along the sides of the valley are the tombs of the kings neatly numbered, as it might
be mining adits with concrete steps leading up to them, and iron grilles that lock of nights,
and doorkeepers of the Department of Antiquities demanding the proper tickets. One enters,
and from deeps below deeps hears the voices of dragomans booming through the names and titles
of the illustrious and thrice-puissant dead. Rock-cut steps go down into hot, still darkness,
passages-twist and are led over blind pits which, men say, the wise builders childishly hoped
would be taken for the real tombs by thieves to come. Up and down these alley-ways clatter
all the races of Europe with a solid backing of the United States. Their footsteps are suddenly
blunted on the floor of a hall paved with immemorial dust that will never dance in any wind.
They peer up at the blazoned ceilings, stoop down to the minutely decorated walls, crane and
follow the sombre splendours of a cornice, draw in their breaths and climb up again to the
fierce sunshine to re-dive into the next adit on their programme. What they think proper to
say, they say aloud--and some of it is very interesting. What they feel you can guess from
a certain haste in their movements--something between the shrinking modesty of a man under
fire and the Hadn't-we-better-be-getting-on attitude of visitors to a mine. After all, it is
not natural for man to go underground except for business or for the last time. He is conscious
of the weight of mother-earth overhead, and when to her expectant bulk is added the whole beaked,
horned, winged, and crowned hierarchy of a lost faith flaming at every turn of his eye, he
naturally wishes to move away. Even the sight of a very great king indeed, sarcophagused under
electric light in a hall full of most fortifying pictures, does not hold him too long.

Some men assert that the crypt of St. Peter's, with only nineteen centuries bearing down on
the groining, and the tombs of early popes and kings all about, is more impressive than the
Valley of the Kings because it explains how and out of what an existing creed grew. But the
Valley of the Kings explains nothing except that most terrible line in Macbeth:

    To the last syllable of recorded time.

Earth opens her dry lips and says it.

In one of the tombs there is a little chamber whose ceiling, probably because of a fault in
the rock, could not be smoothed off like the others. So the decorator, very cunningly, covered
it with a closely designed cloth-pattern--just such a chintz-like piece of stuff as, in real
life, one would use to underhang a rough roof with. He did it perfectly, down there in the
dark, and went his way. Thousands of years later, there was born a man of my acquaintance who,
for good and sufficient reason, had an almost insane horror of anything in the nature of a
ceiling-cloth. He used to make excuses for not going into the dry goods shops at Christmas,
when hastily enlarged annexes are hidden, roof and sides, with embroideries. Perhaps a snake
or a lizard had dropped on his mother from the roof before he was born; perhaps it was the
memory of some hideous fever-bout in a tent. At any rate, that man's idea of The Torment was
a hot, crowded underground room, underhung with patterned cloths. Once in his life at a city
in the far north, where he had to make a speech, he met that perfect combination. They led
him up and down narrow, crowded, steam-heated passages, till they planted him at last in a
room without visible windows (by which he knew he was, underground), and directly beneath a
warm-patterned ceiling-cloth--rather like a tent-lining. And there he had to say his say, while
panic terror sat in his throat. The second time was in the Valley of the Kings, where very
similar passages, crowded with people, led him into a room cut of rock, fathoms underground,
with what looked like a sagging chintz cloth not three feet above his head. The man I'd like
to catch,' he said when he came outside again, 'is that decorator-man. D'you suppose he meant
to produce that effect?'

Every man has his private terrors, other than those of his own conscience. From what I saw
in the Valley of the Kings, the Egyptians seem to have known this some time ago. They certainly
have impressed it on most unexpected people. I heard two voices down a passage talking together
as follows:

She. I guess we weren't ever meant to see these old tombs from inside, anyway.

He. How so?

She. For one thing, they believe so hard in being dead. Of course, their outlook on spiritual
things wasn't as broad as ours.

He. Well, there's no danger of our being led away by it. Did you buy that alleged scarab off
the dragoman this morning?

VI

THE FACE OF THE DESERT

Going up the Nile is like running the gauntlet before Eternity. Till one has seen it, one does
not realise the amazing thinness of that little damp trickle of life that steals along undefeated
through the jaws of established death. A rifle-shot would cover the widest limits of cultivation,
a bow-shot would reach the narrower. Once beyond them a man may carry his next drink with him
till he reaches Cape Blanco on the west (where he may signal for one from a passing Union Castle
boat) or the Karachi Club on the east. Say four thousand dry miles to the left hand and three
thousand to the right.

The weight of the Desert is on one, every day and every hour. At morning, when the cavalcade
tramps along in the rear of the tulip-like dragoman, She says: 'I am here----just beyond that
ridge of pink sand that you are admiring. Come along, pretty gentleman, and I'll tell you your
fortune.' But the dragoman says very clearly: 'Please, sar, do not separate yourself at all
from the main body,' which, the Desert knows well, you had no thought of doing. At noon, when
the stewards rummage out lunch-drinks from the dewy ice-chest, the Desert whines louder than
the well-wheels on the bank: 'I am here, only a quarter of a mile away. For mercy's sake, pretty
gentleman, spare a mouthful of that prickly whisky-and-soda you are lifting to your lips. There's
a white man a few hundred miles off, dying on my lap of thirst--thirst that you cure with a
rag dipped in lukewarm water while you hold him down with the one hand, and he thinks he is
cursing you aloud, but he isn't, because his tongue is outside his mouth and he can't get it
back. Thank you, my noble captain!' For naturally one tips half the drink over the rail with
the ancient prayer: 'May it reach him who needs it,' and turns one's back on the pulsing ridges
and fluid horizons that are beginning their mid-day mirage-dance.

At evening the Desert obtrudes again--tricked out as a Nautch girl in veils of purple, saffron,
gold-tinsel, and grass-green. She postures shamelessly before the delighted tourists with woven
skeins of homeward-flying pelicans, fringes of wild duck, black spotted on crimson, and cheap
jewellery of opal clouds. 'Notice Me!' She cries, like any other worthless woman. 'Admire the
play of My mobile features--the revelations of My multi-coloured soul! Observe My allurements
and potentialities. Thrill while I stir you!' So She floats through all Her changes and retires
upstage into the arms of the dusk. But at midnight She drops all pretence and bears down in
Her natural shape, which depends upon the conscience of the beholder and his distance from
the next white man.

You will observe in the Benedicite Omnia Opera that the Desert is the sole thing not enjoined
to 'bless the Lord, praise Him and magnify Him for ever.' This is because when our illustrious
father, the Lord Adam, and his august consort, the Lady Eve, were expelled from Eden, Eblis
the Accursed, fearful lest mankind should return ultimately to the favour of Allah, set himself
to burn and lay waste all the lands east and west of Eden.

Oddly enough, the Garden of Eden is almost the exact centre of all the world's deserts, counting
from Gobi to Timbuctoo; and all that land qua land is 'dismissed from the mercy of God.' Those
who use it do so at their own risk. Consequently the Desert produces her own type of man exactly
as the sea does. I was fortunate enough to meet one sample, aged perhaps twenty-five. His work
took him along the edge of the Red Sea, where men on swift camels come to smuggle hashish,
and sometimes guns, from dhows that put in to any convenient beach. These smugglers must be
chased on still swifter camels, and since the wells are few and known, the game is to get ahead
of them and occupy their drinking-places.

But they may skip a well or so, and do several days' march in one. Then their pursuer must
take e'en greater risks and make crueller marches that the Law may be upheld. The one thing
in the Law's favour is that hashish smells abominably--worse than a heated camel--so, when
they range alongside, no time is lost in listening to lies. It was not told to me how they
navigate themselves across the broken wastes, or by what arts they keep alive in the dust-storms
and heat. That was taken for granted, and the man who took it so considered himself the most
commonplace of mortals. He was deeply moved by the account of a new aerial route which the
French are laying out somewhere in the Sahara over a waterless stretch of four hundred miles,
where if the aeroplane is disabled between stations the pilot will most likely die and dry
up beside it. To do the Desert justice, she rarely bothers to wipe out evidence of a kill.
There are places in the Desert, men say, where even now you come across the dead of old battles,
all as light as last year's wasps' nests, laid down in swaths or strung out in flight, with,
here and there, the little sparkling lines of the emptied cartridge-cases that dropped them.

There are valleys and ravines that the craziest smugglers do not care to refuge in at certain
times of the year; as there are rest-houses where one's native servants will not stay because
they are challenged on their way to the kitchen by sentries of old Soudanese regiments which
have long gone over to Paradise. And of voices and warnings and outcries behind rocks there
is no end. These last arise from the fact that men very rarely live in a spot so utterly still
that they can hear the murmuring race of the blood over their own ear-drums. Neither ship,
prairie, nor forest gives that silence. I went out to find it once, when our steamer tied up
and the rest of them had gone to see a sight, but I never dared venture more than a mile from
our funnel-smoke. At that point I came upon a hill honey-combed with graves that held a multitude
of paper-white skulls, all grinning cheerfully like ambassadors of the Desert. But I did not
accept their invitation. They had told me that all the little devils learn to draw in the Desert,
which explains the elaborate and purposeless detail that fills it. None but devils could think
of etching every rock outcrop with wind-lines, or skinning it down to its glistening nerves
with sand-blasts; of arranging hills in the likeness of pyramids and sphinxes and wrecked town-suburbs;
of covering the space of half an English county with sepia studies of interlacing and recrossing
ravines, dongas, and nullahs, each an exposition of much too clever perspective; and of wiping
out the half-finished work with a wash of sand in three tints, only to pick it up again in
silver-point on the horizon's edge. This they do in order to make lost travellers think they
can recognise landmarks and run about identifying them till the madness comes. The Desert is
all devil-device--as you might say 'blasted cleverness'--crammed with futile works, always
promising something fresh round the next corner, always leading out through heaped decoration
and over-insistent design into equal barrenness.

There was a morning of mornings when we lay opposite the rock-hewn Temple of Abu Simbel, where
four great figures, each sixty feet high, sit with their hands on their knees waiting for Judgment
Day. At their feet is a little breadth of blue-green crop; they seem to hold back all the weight
of the Desert behind them, which, none the less, lips over at one side in a cataract of vividest
orange sand. The tourist is recommended to see the sunrise here, either from within the temple
where it falls on a certain altar erected by Rameses in his own honour, or from without where
another Power takes charge.

The stars had paled when we began our watch; the river birds were just whispering over their
toilettes in the uncertain purplish light. Then the river dimmered up like pewter; the line
of the ridge behind the Temple showed itself against a milkiness in the sky; one felt rather
than saw that there were four figures in the pit of gloom below it. These blocked themselves
out, huge enough, but without any special terror, while the glorious ritual of the Eastern
dawn went forward. Some reed of the bank revealed itself by reflection, black on silver; arched
wings flapped and jarred the still water to splintered glass; the desert ridge turned to topaz,
and the four figures stood clear, yet without shadowing, from their background. The stronger
light flooded them red from head to foot, and they became alive--as horridly and tensely yet
blindly alive as pinioned men in the death-chair before the current is switched on. One felt
that if by any miracle the dawn could be delayed a second longer, they would tear themselves
free, and leap forth to heaven knows what sort of vengeance. But that instant the full sun
pinned them in their places--nothing more than statues slashed with light and shadow--and another
day got to work.

A few yards to the left of the great images, close to the statue of an Egyptian princess, whose
face was the very face of 'She,' there was a marble slab over the grave of an English officer
killed in a fight against dervishes nearly a generation ago.

From Abu Simbel to Wady Halfa the river, escaped from the domination of the Pharaohs, begins
to talk about dead white men. Thirty years ago, young English officers in India lied and intrigued
furiously that they might be attached to expeditions whose bases were sometimes at Suakim,
sometimes quite in the desert air, but all of whose deeds are now quite forgotten. Occasionally
the dragoman, waving a smooth hand east or south-easterly, will speak of some fight. Then every
one murmurs: 'Oh yes. That was Gordon, of course,' or 'Was that before or after Omdurman?'
But the river is much more precise. As the boat quarters the falling stream like a puzzled
hound, all the old names spurt up again under the paddle-wheels--'Hicks' army--Val Baker--El
Teb--Tokar--Tamai--Tamanieb and Osman Digna!' Her head swings round for another slant: 'We
cannot land English or Indian troops: if consulted, recommend abandonment of the Soudan within
certain limits.' That was my Lord Granville chirruping to the advisers of His Highness the
Khedive, and the sentence comes back as crisp as when it first shocked one in '84. Next--here
is a long reach between flooded palm trees--next, of course, comes Gordon--and a delightfully
mad Irish war  correspondent who was locked up with him in Khartoum. Gordon--Eighty-four--Eighty-five--the
Suakim-Berber Railway really begun and quite as really abandoned. Korti--Abu Klea--the Desert
Column--a steamer called the Safieh not the Condor, which rescued two other steamers wrecked
on their way back from a Khartoum in the red hands of the Mahdi of those days. Then--the smooth
glide over deep water continues--another Suakim expedition with a great deal of Osman Digna
and renewed attempts to build the Suakim-Berber Railway. 'Hashin,' say the paddle-wheels, slowing
all of a sudden--'MacNeill's Zareba--the 15th Sikhs and another native regiment--Osman Digna
in great pride and power, and Wady Halfa a frontier town. Tamai, once more; another siege of
Suakim: Gemaiza; Handub; Trinkitat, and Tokar--1887.'

The river recalls the names; the mind at once brings up the face and every trick of speech
of some youth met for a few hours, maybe, in a train on the way to Egypt of the old days. Both
name and face had utterly vanished from one's memory till then.

It was another generation that picked up the ball ten years later and touched down in Khartoum.
Several people aboard the Cook boat had been to that city. They all agreed that the hotel charges
were very high, but that you could buy the most delightful curiosities in the native bazaar.
But I do not like bazaars of the Egyptian kind, since a discovery I made at Assouan. There
was an old man--a Mussulman--who pressed me to buy some truck or other, but not with the villainous
camaraderie that generations of low-caste tourists have taught the people, nor yet with the
cosmopolitan light-handedness of appeal which the town-bred Egyptian picks up much too quickly;
but with a certain desperate zeal, foreign to his whole creed and nature. He fingered, he implored,
he fawned with an unsteady eye, and while I wondered I saw behind him the puffy pink face of
a fezzed Jew, watching him as a stoat watches a rabbit. When he moved the Jew followed and
took position at a commanding angle. The old man glanced from me to him and renewed his solicitations.
So one could imagine an elderly hare thumping wildly on a tambourine with the stoat behind
him. They told me afterwards that Jews own most of the stalls in Assouan bazaar, the Mussulmans
working for them, since tourists need Oriental colour. Never having seen or imagined a Jew
coercing a Mussulman, this colour was new and displeasing to me.

VII

THE RIDDLE OF EMPIRE

At Halfa one feels the first breath of a frontier. Here the Egyptian Government retires into
the background, and even the Cook steamer does not draw up in the exact centre of the postcard.
At the telegraph-office, too, there are traces, diluted but quite recognisable, of military
administration. Nor does the town, in any way or place whatever, smell--which is proof that
it is not looked after on popular lines. There is nothing to see in it any more than there
is in Hulk C. 60, late of her Majesty's troopship Himalaya, now a coal-hulk in the Hamoaze
at Plymouth. A river front, a narrow terraced river-walk of semi-oriental houses, barracks,
a mosque, and half-a-dozen streets at right angles, the Desert racing up to the end of each,
make all the town. A mile or so up stream under palm trees are bungalows of what must have
been cantonments, some machinery repair-shops, and odds and ends of railway track. It is all
as paltry a collection of whitewashed houses, pitiful gardens, dead walls, and trodden waste
spaces as one would wish to find anywhere; and every bit of it quivers with the remembered
life of armies and river-fleets, as the finger-bowl rings when the rubbing finger is lifted.
The most unlikely men have done time there; stores by the thousand ton have been rolled and
pushed and hauled up the banks by tens of thousands of scattered hands; hospitals have pitched
themselves there, expanded enormously, shrivelled up and drifted away with the drifting regiments;
railway sidings by the mile have been laid down and ripped up again, as need changed, and utterly
wiped out by the sands.

Halfa has been the rail-head, Army Headquarters, and hub of the universe--the one place where
a man could make sure of buying tobacco and sardines, or could hope for letters for himself
and medical attendance for his friend. Now she is a little shrunken shell of a town without
a proper hotel, where tourists hurry up from the river to buy complete sets of Soudan stamps
at the Post Office.

I went for a purposeless walk from one end of the place to the other, and found a crowd of
native boys playing football on what might have been a parade-ground of old days.

'And what school is that?' I asked in English of a small, eager youth.

'Madrissah,' said he most intelligently, which being translated means just 'school.'

'Yes, but what school?'

'Yes, Madrissah, school, sir,' and he tagged after to see what else the imbecile wanted.

A line of railway track, that must have fed big workshops in its time, led me between big-roomed
houses and offices labelled departmentally, with here and there a clerk at work. I was directed
and re-directed by polite Egyptian officials (I wished to get at a white officer if possible,
but there wasn't one about); was turned out of a garden which belonged to an Authority; hung
round the gate of a bungalow with an old-established compound and two white men sitting in
chairs on a verandah; wandered down towards the river under the palm trees, where the last
red light came through; lost myself among rusty boilers and balks of timber; and at last loafed
back in the twilight escorted by the small boy and an entire brigade of ghosts, not one of
whom I had ever met before, but all of whom I knew most intimately. They said it was the evenings
that used to depress them most, too; so they all came back after dinner and bore me company,
while I went to meet a friend arriving by the night train from Khartoum.

She was an hour late, and we spent it, the ghosts and I, in a brick-walled, tin-roofed shed,
warm with the day's heat; a crowd of natives laughing and talking somewhere behind in the darkness.
We knew each other so well by that time, that we had finished discussing every conceivable
topic of conversation--the whereabouts of the Mahdi's head, for instance--work, reward, despair,
acknowledgment, flat failure, all the real motives that had driven us to do anything, and all
our other longings. So we sat still and let the stars move, as men must do when they meet this
kind of train.

Presently I asked: 'What is the name of the next station out from here?'

'Station Number One,' said a ghost.

'And the next?'

'Station Number Two, and so on to Eight, I think.'

'And wasn't it worth while to name even one of these stations from some man, living or dead,
who had something to do with making the line?'

'Well, they didn't, anyhow,' said another ghost. 'I suppose they didn't think it worth while.
Why? What do you think?'

'I think, I replied, 'it is the sort of snobbery that nations go to Hades for.'

Her headlight showed at last, an immense distance off; the economic electrics were turned up,
the ghosts vanished, the dragomans of the various steamers flowed forward in beautiful garments
to meet their passengers who had booked passages in the Cook boats, and the Khartoum train
decanted a joyous collection of folk, all decorated with horns, hoofs, skins, hides, knives,
and assegais, which they had been buying at Omdurman. And when the porters laid hold upon their
bristling bundles, it was like MacNeill's Zareba without the camels.

Two young men in tarboushes were the only people who had no part in the riot. Said one of them
to the other:

'Hullo?'

Said the other: 'Hullo!'

They grunted together for a while. Then one pleasantly:

'Oh, I'm sorry for that! I thought I was going to have you under me for a bit. Then you'll
use the rest-house there?'

'I suppose so,' said the other. 'Do you happen to know if the roof's on?'

Here a woman wailed aloud for her dervish spear which had gone adrift, and I shall never know,
except from the back pages of the Soudan Almanack, what state that rest-house there is in.

The Soudan Administration, by the little I heard, is a queer service. It extends itself in
silence from the edges of Abyssinia to the swamps of the Equator at an average pressure of
one white man to several thousand square miles. It legislates according to the custom of the
tribe where possible, and on the common sense of the moment when there is no precedent. It
is recruited almost wholly from the army, armed chiefly with binoculars, and enjoys a death-rate
a little lower than its own reputation. It is said to be the only service in which a man taking
leave is explicitly recommended to get out of the country and rest himself that he may return
the more fit to his job. A high standard of intelligence is required, and lapses are not overlooked.
For instance, one man on leave in London took the wrong train from Boulogne, and instead of
going to Paris, which, of course, he had intended, found himself at a station called Kirk Kilissie
or Adrianople West, where he stayed for some weeks. It was a mistake that might have happened
to any one on a dark night after a stormy passage, but the authorities would not believe it,
and when I left Egypt were busily engaged in boiling him in hot oil. They are grossly respectable
in the Soudan now.

Long and long ago, before even the Philippines were taken, a friend of mine was reprimanded
by a British Member of Parliament, first for the sin of blood-guiltiness because he was by
trade a soldier, next for murder because he had fought in great battles, and lastly, and most
important, because he and his fellow-braves had saddled the British taxpayer with the expense
of the Soudan. My friend explained that all the Soudan had ever cost the British taxpayer was
the price of about one dozen of regulation Union Jacks--one for each province. 'That,' said
the M.P. triumphantly, 'is all it will ever be worth.' He went on to justify himself, and the
Soudan went on also. To-day it has taken its place as one of those accepted miracles which
are worked without heat or headlines by men who do the job nearest their hand and seldom fuss
about their reputations.

But less than sixteen years ago the length and breadth of it was one crazy hell of murder,
torture, and lust, where every man who had a sword used it till he met a stronger and became
a slave. It was--men say who remember it--a hysteria of blood and fanaticism; and precisely
as an hysterical woman is called to her senses by a dash of cold water, so at the battle of
Omdurman the land was reduced to sanity by applied death on such a scale as the murderers and
the torturers at their most unbridled could scarcely have dreamed. In a day and a night all
who had power and authority were wiped out and put under till, as the old song says, no chief
remained to ask after any follower. They had all charged into Paradise. The people who were
left looked for renewed massacres of the sort they had been accustomed to, and when these did
not come, they said helplessly: 'We have nothing. We are nothing. Will you sell us into slavery
among the Egyptians?' The men who remember the old days of the Reconstruction--which deserves
an epic of its own--say that there was nothing left to build on, not even wreckage. Knowledge,
decency, kinship, property, tide, sense of possession had all gone. The people were told they
were to sit still and obey orders; and they stared and fumbled like dazed crowds after an explosion.
Bit by bit, however, they were fed and watered and marshalled into some sort of order; set
to tasks they never dreamed to see the end of; and, almost by physical force, pushed and hauled
along the ways of mere life. They came to understand presently that they might reap what they
had sown, and that man, even a woman, might walk for a day's journey with two goats and a native
bedstead and live undespoiled. But they had to be taught kindergarten-fashion.

And little by little, as they realised that the new order was sure and that their ancient oppressors
were quite dead, there returned not only cultivators, craftsmen, and artisans, but outlandish
men of war, scarred with old wounds and the generous dimples that the Martini-Henry bullet
used to deal--fighting men on the lookout for new employ. They would hang about, first on one
leg, then on the other, proud or uneasily friendly, till some white officer circulated near
by. And at his fourth or fifth passing, brown and white having approved each other by eye,
the talk--so men say--would run something like this:

OFFICER (with air of sudden discovery). Oh, you by the hut, there, what is your business?

WARRIOR (at 'attention' complicated by attempt to salute). I am So-and-So, son of So-and-So,
from such and such a place.

OFFICER. I hear. And ...?

WARRIOR (repeating salute). And a fighting man also.

OFFICER (impersonally to horizon). But they all say that nowadays.

WARRIOR (very loudly). But there is a man in one of your battalions who can testify to it.
He is the grandson of my father's uncle.

OFFICER (confidentially to his boots). Hell is quite full of such grandsons of just such father's
uncles; and how do I know if Private So-and-So speaks the truth about his family? (Makes to go.)

WARRIOR (swiftly removing necessary garments). Perhaps. But these don't lie. Look! I got this
ten, twelve years ago when I was quite a lad, close to the old Border, Yes, Halfa. It was a
true Snider bullet. Feel it! This little one on the leg I got at the big fight that finished
it all last year. But I am not lame (violent leg-exercise), not in the least lame. See! I run.
I jump. I kick. Praised be Allah!

OFFICER. Praised be Allah! And then?

WARRIOR (coquettishly). Then, I shoot. I am not a common spear-man. (Lapse into English.) Yeh,
dam goo' shot! (pumps lever of imaginary Martini).

OFFICER (unmoved). I see. And then?

WARRIOR (indignantly). I am come here--after many days' marching. (Change to childlike wheedle.)
Are all the regiments full?

At this point the relative, in uniform, generally discovered himself, and if the officer liked
the cut of his jib, another 'old Mahdi's man' would be added to the machine that made itself
as it rolled along. They dealt with situations in those days by the unclouded light of reason
and a certain high and holy audacity.

There is a tale of two Sheikhs shortly after the Reconstruction began. One of them, Abdullah
of the River, prudent and the son of a slave-woman, professed loyalty to the English very early
in the day, and used that loyalty as a cloak to lift camels from another Sheikh, Farid of the
Desert, still at war with the English, but a perfect gentleman, which Abdullah was not. Naturally,
Farid raided back on Abdullah's kine, Abdullah complained to the authorities, and the Border
fermented. To Farid in his desert camp with a clutch of Abdullah's cattle round him, entered,
alone and unarmed, the officer responsible for the peace of those parts. After compliments,
for they had had dealings with each other before: 'You've been driving Abdullah's stock again,'
said the Englishman.

'I should think I had!' was the hot answer. 'He lifts my camels and scuttles back into your
territory, where he knows I can't follow him for the life; and when I try to get a bit of my
own back, he whines to you. He's a cad--an utter cad.'

'At any rate, he is loyal. If you'd only come in and be loyal too, you'd both be on the same
footing, and then if he stole from you, he'd catch it!'

'He'd never dare to steal except under your protection. Give him what he'd have got in the
Mahdi's time--a first-class flogging. You know he deserves it!'

'I'm afraid that isn't allowed. You have to let me shift all those bullocks of his back again.'

'And if I don't?'

'Then, I shall have to ride back and collect all my men and begin war against you.'

'But what prevents my cutting your throat where you sit?

'For one thing, you aren't Abdullah, and----'

'There! You confess he's a cad!'

'And for another, the Government would only send another officer who didn't understand your
ways, and then there would be war, and no one would score except Abdullah. He'd steal your
camels and get credit for it.'

'So he would, the scoundrel! This is a hard world for honest men. Now, you admit Abdullah is
a cad. Listen to me, and I'll tell you a few more things about him. He was, etc., etc. He is,
etc., etc.'

'You're perfectly right, Sheikh, but don't you see I can't tell him what I think of him so
long as he's loyal and you're out against us? Now, if you come in I promise you that I'll give
Abdullah a telling-off--yes, in your presence--that will do you good to listen to.'

'No! I won't come in! But--I tell you what I will do. I'll accompany you to-morrow as your
guest, understand, to your camp. Then you send for Abdullah, and if I judge that his fat face
has been sufficiently blackened in my presence, I'll think about coming in later.'

So it was arranged, and they slept out the rest of the night, side by side, and in the morning
they gathered up and returned all Abdullah's cattle, and in the evening, in Farid's presence,
Abdullah got the tongue-lashing of his wicked old life, and Farid of the Desert laughed and
came in; and they all lived happy ever afterwards.

Somewhere or other in the nearer provinces the old heady game must be going on still, but the
Soudan proper has settled to civilisation of the brick-bungalow and bougainvillea sort, and
there is a huge technical college where the young men are trained to become fitters, surveyors,
draftsmen, and telegraph employees at fabulous wages. In due time, they will forget how warily
their fathers had to walk in the Mahdi's time to secure even half a bellyful; then, as has
happened elsewhere. They will honestly believe that they themselves originally created and
since then have upheld the easy life into which they were bought at so heavy a price. Then
the demand will go up for 'extension of local government,' 'Soudan for the Soudanese,' and
so on till the whole cycle has to be retrodden. It is a hard law but an old one--Rome died
learning it, as our western civilisation may die--that if you give any man anything that he
has not painfully earned for himself, you infallibly make him or his descendants your devoted
enemies.

THE END

