An eminent lawyer of my acquaintance had a Socratic habit of interrupting the conversation
by saying, "Let us understand one another: when you say so-and-so, do you mean so-and-so, or
something quite different?"  Now, although it is intolerable that the natural flow of social
intercourse should be thus impeded, yet in writing a paper to be laid before a learned and
fastidious society one is bound to let one's hearers a little into the secret, and to state
fairly what the subject of the essay really is.  I suppose we shall all admit that bad luxury
is bad, and good luxury is good, unless the phrase good luxury is a contradiction in terms.
We must try to avoid disputing about words.  The word luxury, according to its derivation,
signifies an extravagant and outrageous indulgence of the appetites or desires.  If we take
this as the meaning of the word, we shall agree that luxury is bad; but if we take luxury to
be only another name for the refinements of civilization, we shall all approve of it.  But
the real and substantial question is not what the word means, but, what is that thing which
we all agree is bad or good; where does the bad begin and the good end; how are we to discern
the difference; and how are we to avoid the one and embrace the other.  In this essay, therefore,
I intend to use the word luxury to denote that indulgence which interferes with the full and
proper exercise of all the faculties, powers, tastes, and whatever is good and worthy in a
man.  Enjoyments, relaxations, delights, indulgences which are beneficial, I do not denominate
"luxury."  All indulgences which fit us for our duties are good; all which tend to unfit us
for them are bad; and these latter I call luxuries.  Some one will say, perhaps, that some
indulgences are merely indifferent, and produce no appreciable effect upon body or mind; and
it might be enough to dismiss such things with the maxim, "de minimis non curat lex."  But
the doctrine is dangerous, and I doubt if anything in this world is absolutely immaterial.
De Quincey mentions the case of a man who committed a murder, which at the time he thought
little about, but he was led on from that to gambling and Sabbath breaking.  Probably in this
weary world any indulgence or pleasure which is not bad is not indifferent, but absolutely
good.  The world is not so bright, so comfortable, so pleasant, that we can afford to scorn
the good the gods provide us.  In Mr. Reade's book on Study and Stimulants, Matthew Arnold
says, a moderate use of wine adds to the agreeableness of life, and whatever adds to the agreeableness
of life, adds to its resources and powers.  There cannot be a doubt that the bodily frame is
capable of being wearied, and that it needs repose and refreshment, and this is a law which
a man trifles with at his peril.  The same is true of the intellectual and moral faculties.
They claim rest and refreshment; they must have comfort and pleasure or they will begin to
flag.  It must also be always remembered that in the every-day work of this world the body
and the mind have to go through a great deal which is depressing and taxing to the energy,
and a certain amount of "set off" is required to keep the balance even.  We must remember this
especially with respect to the poor.  Pipes and cigars may be a luxury to the idle and rich,
but we ought not to grudge a pipe to a poor man who is overworked and miserable. Some degree
of comfort we all feel to be at times essential when we have a comfortless task to perform.
With good food and sleep, for instance, we can get through the roughest work; with the relaxation
of pleasant society we can do the most tedious daily work.  If, on the other hand, we are worried
and uncomfortable, we become unfitted for our business.  We all have our troubles to contend
against, and we require comfort, relaxation, stimulation of some sort to help us in the battle.
There are certain duties which most of us have to perform, and which, to use a common expression,
"take it out of us."  Thus most of us are compelled to travel more or less.  An old gentleman
travelling by coach on a long journey wished to sleep off the tediousness of the night, but
his travelling companion woke him up every ten minutes with the inquiry, "Well, sir, how are
you by this."  At last the old gentleman's patience was fairly tired out.  "I was very well
when I got into the coach, and I'm very well now, and if any change takes place I'll let you
know."  I was coming from London to Beckenham, and in the carriage with me was a gentleman
quietly and attentively reading the newspaper.  A lady opposite to him, whenever we came to
a station, cried out, "Oh, what station's this, what station's this?"  Being told, she subsided,
more or less, till the next station.  The gentleman's patience was at last exhausted.  "If
there is any particular station at which you wish to alight I will inform you when we arrive."

Such are some of the annoying circumstances of travel.  Then, at the end of the journey, are
we sure of a comfortable night's rest?  It was a rule upon circuit that the barristers arriving
at an inn had the choice of bedrooms according to seniority, and woe betide the junior who
dared to infringe the rule and endeavour to secure by force or fraud the best bedroom.  The
leaders, who had the hardest work to do, required the best night's rest.  A party of barristers
arrived late one night at their accustomed inn, a half-way house to the next assize town, and
found one of the best bedrooms already occupied.  They were told by some wag that it was occupied
by a young man just joined the circuit.  There was a rush to the bedroom.  The culprit was
dragged out of bed and deposited on the floor.  A venerable old gentleman in a nightcap and
gown addressed the ringleader of his assailants, Serjeant Golbourne, "Brother Golbourne, brother
Golbourne, is this the way to treat a Christian judge?"  I should not have liked to have been
one of those who had to conduct a cause before him next day.  Who can be generous, benevolent,
kindly, and even- tempered if one is to be subjected to such harassing details as I have above
narrated? and I have no doubt that a fair amount of comfort is necessary to the exercise of
the Christian virtues.  I am not at all sure that pilgrims prayed any better because they had
peas in their shoes, and it is well known that soldiers fight best when they are well fed.
A certain amount of comfort and pleasure is good for us, and is refreshing to body and spirit.
Such things, for instance, as the bath in the morning; the cup of warm tea or coffee for breakfast;
the glass of beer or wine and variety of food at dinner; the rest or nap in the arm-chair or
sofa; an occasional novel; the pipe before going to bed; the change of dress; music or light
reading in the evening; even the night-cap recommended by Mr. Banting; games of chance or skill;
dancing;--surely such things may renovate, soothe, and render more elastic and vigorous both
body and mind.

While, therefore, I have admitted fully that we all require "sweetness and light," that some
indulgence is necessary for the renovation of our wearied souls and bodies; yet it very often
will happen that the thing in which we desire to indulge does not tend at all in this direction,
or it may be that, although a moderate indulgence does so tend, an immoderate use has precisely
the reverse effect.  My subject, therefore, divides itself, firstly, into a consideration of
those luxuries which are per se deleterious, and those which are so only by excessive use.

I suppose you will not be surprised to hear that I think we are in danger, in the upper and
middle classes at all events, of going far beyond the point where pleasures and indulgences
tend to the improvement of body and mind.  Surely there are many of us who can remember when
the habits of our fathers were less luxurious than they are now.  In a leading article in a
newspaper not long ago the writer said, "All classes without exception spend too much on what
may be called luxuries.  A very marked change in this respect has been noticed by every one
who studies the movements of society.  Among people whose fathers regarded champagne as a devout
Aryan might have regarded the Soma juice--viz., as a beverage reserved for the gods and for
millionaires--the foaming grape of Eastern France is now habitually consumed. . . ."  He goes
on, "The luxuries of the poor are few, and chiefly consist of too much beer, and of little
occasional dainties.  What pleasures but the grossest does the State provide for the artisan's
leisure?"  "It does not do," says the writer, "to be hard upon them, but it is undeniable that
this excess of expenditure on what in no sense profits them is enormous in the mass."

Not long ago a great outcry was heard about the extravagance and luxury of the working man.
It was stated often, and certainly not without foundation, that the best of everything in the
markets in the way of food was bought at the highest prices by workmen or their wives; and
although the champagne was not perhaps so very freely indulged in, nor so pure as might be
wished, yet, that the working men indulged themselves in more drink than was good for their
stomachs, and in more expensive drinks than was good for their purses, no man can doubt.

If this increase of luxury is observable in the lower classes, how much more easily can it
be discerned in the middle classes.  Take for instance the pleasures of the table.  I do not
speak of great entertainments or life in palaces or great houses, which do not so much vary
from one age to another, but of the ordinary life of people like ourselves.  Spenser says:--

   "The antique world excess and pryde did hate,
   Such proud luxurious pomp is swollen up of late."

How many more dishes and how many more wines do we put on the table than our ancestors afforded.
Pope writes of Balaam's housekeeping:--

   "A single dish the week day meal affords,
   An added pudding solemnized the Lord's."

Then when he became rich:--

   "Live like yourself was soon my lady's word,
   And lo, two puddings smoked upon the board!"

   To Hounslow Heath I point, and Banstead Down;
   Thence comes your mutton, and these chicks my own,
   From yon old walnut tree a show'r shall fall,
   And grapes, long lingering on my only wall,
   And figs from standard and espalier join--
   The deuce is in you if you cannot dine."

Now, however, the whole world is put under contribution to supply our daily meals, and the
palate is being constantly stimulated, and in some degree impaired by a variety of food and
wine.  And I am sure that the effect of this is to produce a distaste for wholesome food. 
I daresay we have all heard of the Scotchman who had drunk too much whisky.  He said, "I can't
drink water; it turns sae acid on the stomach."  This increase of the luxuries of the table,
beyond what was the habit of our fathers, is shown chiefly, I think, when we are at home and
alone; but if one is visiting or entertaining others, how often is one perfectly bored by the
quantity of food and drink which is handed round.  Things in season and out of season, perhaps
ill assorted, ill cooked, cold, and calculated to make one extremely ill, but no doubt costing
a great deal of money, time, and anxiety to the givers of the feast.  Then we fall to grumbling,
and are discontented with having too much, but having acquired a habit of expecting it we grumble
still more if there is not as much as usual provided.

But what is the modern idea of a dinner?--

   "After oysters Sauterne; then sherry, champagne,
   E'er one bottle goes comes another again;
   Fly up, thou bold cork, to the ceiling above,
   And tell to our ears in the sounds that they love,
      How pleasant it is to have money,
            Heigh ho;
      How pleasant it is to have money!

   Your Chablis is acid, away with the hock;
   Give me the pure juice of the purple Medoc;
   St. Peray is exquisite; but, if you please,
   Some Burgundy just before tasting the cheese.
      So pleasant it is to have money,
         Heigh ho;
      So pleasant it is to have money!

   Fish and soup and omelette and all that--but the deuce--
   There were to be woodcocks and not Charlotte Russe,
   And so suppose now, while the things go away,
   By way of a grace, we all stand up and say--
      How pleasant it is to have money,
         Heigh ho;
      How pleasant it is to have money!

This, of course, is meant to be satirical; but no doubt many persons regard the question of
"good living" as much more important than "high thinking."  "My dear fellow," said Thackeray,
when a dish was served at the Rocher de Cancalle, "don't let us speak a word till we have finished
this dish."

   "'Mercy!' cries Helluo.  'Mercy on my soul!
   Is there no hope?  Alas!--then bring the jowl.'"

A great peer, who had expended a large fortune, summoned his heir to his death-bed, and told
him that he had a secret of great importance to impart to him, which might be some compensation
for the injury he had done him.  The secret was that crab sauce was better than lobster sauce.

"Persicos odi," "I hate all your Frenchified fuss."

   "But a nice leg of mutton, my Lucy,
      I prithee get ready by three;
   Have it smoking, and tender, and juicy,
      And, what better meat can there be?
   And when it has served for the master,
      'Twill amply suffice for the maid;
   Meanwhile I will smoke my canaster,
      And tipple my ale in the shade."

Can anything be more awful than a public dinner--the waste, the extravagance, the outrageous
superfluity of everything, the enormous waste of time, the solemn gorging, as if the whole
end and aim of life were turtle and venison.  I do not know whether to dignify such proceedings
by the name of luxury.  But what shall I say of gentlemen's clubs.  They are the very hotbed
of luxury.  By merely asking for it you obtain almost anything you require in the way of luxury.
I am aware that many men at clubs live more carefully and frugally, but I am aware also that
a great many acquire habits of self-indulgence which produce idleness and selfish indifference
to the wants of others.  In a still more pernicious fashion, I think that refreshment bars
at railway stations minister to luxury; at least I am sure they foster a habit of drinking
more than is necessary, or desirable; and that is one form of luxury, and a very bad one. 
The fellows of a Camford college are reported to have met on one occasion and voted that we
do sell our chapel organ; and the next motion, carried nem. con., was that we do have a dinner.
As to ornaments for the dinner table what affectation and expense do we see.  But in the days
of Walpole it was not amiss.  "The last branch of our fashion into which the close observation
of nature has been introduced is our desserts.  Jellies, biscuits, sugar plums, and creams
have long since given way to harlequins, gondoliers, Turks, Chinese, and shepherdesses of Saxon
china.  Meadows of cattle spread themselves over the table.  Cottages in sugar, and temples
in barley sugar, pigmy Neptunes in cars of cockle shells trampling over oceans of looking glass
or seas of silver tissue.  Gigantic figures succeed to pigmies; and it is known that a celebrated
confectioner complained that, after having prepared a middle dish of gods and goddesses eighteen
feet high, his lord would not cause the ceiling of his parlour to be demolished to facilitate
their entree.  "Imaginez-vous," said he, "que milord n'a pas vouler faire oter le plafond!"

To show how much luxurious living has increased during the present century I propose to quote
a portion of that wonderfully brilliant third chapter of Macaulay's England which we all know.
In short, there was nothing like the Avenue and the Fox Grove, Beckenham, in old times, and
we who live there ought to be immensely grateful for our undeserved blessings.

Well, you will say, all this proves what a vast improvement we have achieved.  Yes; but we
must remember that Macaulay was writing on that side of the question.  Are we not more self-indulgent,
more fond of our flowers, villas, carriages, etc., than we need be; less hard working and industrious;
more desirous of getting the means of indulgence by some short and ready way--by speculation,
gambling, and shady, if not dishonest dealing--than our fathers were?  I need not follow at
further length Macaulay's description of these earlier times--of the black rivulets roaring
down Ludgate Hill, filled with the animal and vegetable filth from the stalls of butchers and
greengrocers, profusely thrown to right and left upon the foot-passengers upon the narrow pavements;
the garret windows opened and pails emptied upon the heads below; thieves prowling about the
dark streets at night, amid constant rioting and drunkenness; the difficulties and discomforts
of travelling, when the carriages stuck fast in the quagmires; the travellers attacked by highwaymen.
He narrates how it took Prince George of Denmark, who visited Petworth in wet weather, six
hours to go nine miles.  Compare this to a journey in a first-class carriage or Pullman car
upon the Midland Railway, and think of the luxuries demanded by the traveller on his journey
if he is going to travel for more than two or three hours: the dinner, the coffee, the cigar,
the newspaper and magazine, etc., etc.

There is a passage in the beginning of Tom Brown's School Days in which the author ridicules
the quantity of great coats, wrappers, and rugs which a modern schoolboy takes with him, though
he is going to travel first class, with foot-warmers.  Then, in our houses, what stoves and
hot- water pipes and baths do we not require!  How many soaps and powders, rough towels and
soft towels!  Sir Charles Napier, I think, said that all an officer wanted to take with him
on a campaign was a towel, a tooth- brush, and a piece of yellow soap.  The great excuse for
the bath is that if it is warm it is cleansing; if it is cold, it is invigorating; but what
shall we say to Turkish Baths?  Surely there is more time wasted than enough, and, unless as
a medical cure, it may become an idle habit. I have seen private Turkish Baths in private houses.
What are we coming to?  We used to be proud of our ordinary wash-hand basins, and make fun
of the little saucers that we found provided for our ablutions upon the Continent.  At the
time of the great Exhibition of 1851 Punch had a picture of two very grimy Frenchmen regarding
with wonder an ordinary English wash-stand.  "Comment appelle-t'on cette machine la," says
one; to which the other replies, "Je ne sais pas, mais c'est drole."  A great advance has been
made in the furniture of our houses.  We fill our rooms, especially our drawing-rooms or boudoirs,
with endless arm-chairs and sofas of various shapes--all designed to give repose to the limbs;
but I am sure they tend towards lazy habits, and very often interfere with work.  Surely there
has lately risen a custom of overdoing the embellishment and ornamentation of our houses. 
We fill our rooms too full of all sorts of knick-knacks, so much so that we can hardly move
about for fear of upsetting something.  "I have a fire [in my bedroom] all day," writes Carlyle.
"The bed seems to be about eight feet wide.  Of my paces the room measures fifteen from end
to end, forty-five feet long, height and width proportionate, with ancient, dead-looking portraits
of queens, kings, Straffords and principalities, etc., really the uncomfortablest acme of luxurious
comfort that any Diogenes was set into in these late years."  There were no ornaments.  Here
Miss Wordsworth and her brother, the great poet, lived on the simplest fare and drank cold
water, and hence issued those noble poems which more than any others teach us the higher life.

   "Blush, grandeur, blush; proud courts, withdraw your blaze;
   Ye little stars, hide your diminished rays."  A man servant was too
expensive, so I caught up a little garden girl, made like a milestone,
christened her Bunch, put a napkin in her hand, and made her my butler.
The girls taught her to read, Mrs. Sydney to wait, and I undertook her
morals.  Bunch became the best butler in the country.  I had little
furniture, so I bought a cartload of deals; took a carpenter (who came to
me for parish relief) called Jack Robinson, with a face like a full moon,
into my service, established him in a barn, and said, 'Jack, furnish my
house.'  You see the result."

Then what shall I say of the luxury of endless daily papers, leading articles, short paragraphs,
reviews, illustrated papers,--are not these luxuries?  Are they not inventions for making thought
easy, or rather for the purpose of relieving us from the trouble of thinking for ourselves.
May I also, without raising a religious controversy, observe that in religious worship we are
prone to relieve ourselves from the trouble of deep and consecutive thought by surrounding
our minds with a sort of mist of feeling and sentiment; by providing beautiful music, pictures,
and ornaments, and so resting satisfied in a somewhat indolent feeling of goodness, and not
troubling ourselves with too much effort of reason.  A love of the beautiful undoubtedly tends
to elevate and refine the mind, but the follies of the false love and the dangers of an inordinate
love are numerous and deadly.  It is absurd that a man should either be or pretend to be absolutely
absorbed in the worship of a dado or a China tea cup so as to care for nothing else, and to
be unable to do anything else but stare at it with his head on one side.  With most people
the whole thing is the mere affectation of affected people, who, if they were not affected
in one way, would be so in another.  Boswell was a very affected man.  He says, "I remember
it distressed me to think of going into another world where Shakespeare's poetry did not exist;
but a lady relieved me by saying, 'The first thing you will meet in the other world will be
an elegant copy of Shakespeare's works presented to you.'" Boswell says he felt much comforted,
but I suspect the lady was laughing at him.  I like the "elegant copy" very much.  It is certain
that in this world there is a deal of rough work to be done, and I feel that, attractive and
beautiful as so many things are, too much absorption of them has a weakening and enervating effect.

I have spoken of the luxuries of the table, of the house, of travel, and of a love of ease
and beautiful surroundings.  There are, however, some people who are very luxurious without
caring much for any of these things.  Their main desire appears to be to live a long time,
and to preserve their youth and beauty to the last.  For this purpose they surround themselves
with comfort, they decline to see or hear of anything which they don't like for fear it should
make their hair grey and their faces wrinkled, and their whole talk is of ailments and German
waters. Swift somewhere or other expresses his contempt for this sort of person. "A well preserved
man is," he says, "a man with no heart and who has done nothing all his life."  Old ruins look
beautiful by reason of the rain and the wind, the heat of August and the frost of January,
and I am sure I have often seen in men--aye, and in women too--far more beauty where the tempests
have passed over the face and brow, than where the life has been more sheltered and less interesting.

But I must notice before I conclude this part of my subject one of the principal causes of
a fatal indulgence in luxury, and that is a despairing sense of the futility of attempting
to do anything worth doing, and of inability to strive against what is going on wrong.  This
is the meaning of that rather vulgar phrase, "Anything for a quiet life"; and this is the reason
why with many people everything and everybody is always a "bore."  Here, too, is the secret
of that suave, polished, soft- voiced manner so much affected nowadays by highly-educated young
men, and that somewhat chilly reserve in which they wrap themselves up.  "Pray don't ask us
to give an opinion, or show an interest, or discuss any serious view of things."

   "For not to desire or admire, if a man could learn it, were more
   Than to walk all day, like the Sultan of old, in a garden of spice."

"Let us surround ourselves with every luxury; let us cease to strive or fret; let us be elegant,
refined, gentle, harmless, and, above all, undisturbed in mind and body."  "We have had enough
of motion and of action we."  "Surely, surely, slumber is more sweet than toil."  "Let us get
through life the best way we can, and though there is not much that can delight us, let us
achieve as much amelioration of our lot as is possible for us."

These, then, are some of the forms which luxury takes in the present century, and these are
some of the outcomes of an advanced, and still rapidly advancing, civilization.  These, too,
seem to be the invariable accompaniments of such an advance.  A very similar picture of Rome
in the days of Cicero and Caesar is drawn by Mr. Froude in his Caesar.  He says: "With such
vividness, with such transparent clearness, the age stands before us of Cato and Pompey, of
Cicero and Julius Caesar; the more distinctly because it was an age in so many ways the counterpart
of our own, the blossoming period of the old civilization.  It was an age of material progress
and material civilization; an age of civil liberty and intellectual culture; an age of pamphlets
and epigrams, of salons and of dinner parties, of sensational majorities and electoral corruption.
The rich were extravagant, for life had ceased to have practical interest, except for its material
pleasures; the occupation of the higher classes was to obtain money without labour, and to
spend it in idle enjoyment. Patriotism survived on the lips, but patriotism meant the ascendancy
of the party which would maintain the existing order of things, or would overthrow it for a
more equal distribution of the good things, which alone were valued.  Religion, once the foundation
of the laws and rule of personal conduct, had subsided into opinion.  The educated, in their
hearts, disbelieved it.  Temples were still built with increasing splendour; the established
forms were scrupulously observed.  Public men spoke conventionally of Providence, that they
might throw on their opponents the odium of impiety; but of genuine belief that life had any
serious meaning, there was none remaining beyond the circle of the silent, patient, ignorant
multitude.  The whole spiritual atmosphere was saturated with cant--cant moral, cant political,
cant religious; an affectation of high principle which had ceased to touch the conduct and
flowed on in an increasing volume of insincere and unreal speech.  The truest thinkers were
those who, like Lucretius, spoke frankly out their real convictions, declared that Providence
was a dream, and that man and the world he lived in were material phenomena, generated by natural
forces out of cosmic atoms, and into atoms to be again resolved."

Next I am going, as I promised, to consider those indulgences which become luxuries by excessive
use, and in this I shall be led also to consider the effects of luxury.  It has become a very
trite saying that riches do not bring happiness; and certainly luxury, which riches can command,
does not bring content, which is the greatest of all pleasures. On the contrary, the moment
the body or mind is over-indulged in any way, it immediately demands more of the same indulgence,
and even in stronger doses.  Who does not know that too much wine makes one desire more?  Who,
after reading a novel, does not feel a longing for another?

The rich and poor dog, as we all know, meet and discourse of these things in Burns's poem--

   "Frae morn to e'en it's naught but toiling
   At baking, roasting, frying, boiling,
   An', tho' the gentry first are stechin,
   Yet e'en the hall folk fill their pechan
   With sauce, ragouts, and sic like trashtrie,
   That's little short of downright wastrie.
   An' what poor cot-folk pit their painch in
   I own it's past my comprehension."

To which Luath replies--

   "They're maistly wonderful contented."

Caesar afterwards describes the weariness and ennui which pursue the luxurious--

   "But human bodies are sic fools,
   For all their colleges and schools,
   That, when nae real ills perplex 'em,
   They make enow themselves to vex 'em.
   They loiter, lounging lank and lazy,
   Though nothing ails them, yet uneasy.
   Their days insipid, dull, and tasteless;
   Their nights unquiet, lang, and restless,
   An' e'en their sports, their balls and races,
   Their gallopin' through public places,
   There's sic parade, sic pomp, an' art,
   The joy can scarcely reach the heart."

After this description the two friends

   "Rejoiced they were not men, but dogs."

An Italian wit has defined man to be "an animal which troubles himself with things which don't
concern him"; and, when one thinks of the indefatigable way in which people pursue pleasure,
all the while deriving no pleasure from it, one is filled with amazement.  "Life would be very
tolerable if it were not for its pleasures," said Sir Cornewall Lewis, and I am satisfied that
half the weariness of life comes from the vain attempts which are made to satisfy a jaded appetite.

There are many things which are not luxuries per se, but become so if indulged in to excess.
Take, for instance, smoking and drinking.  One pipe a day and one glass of wine a day are not
luxuries, but a great many a day are luxuries.  So lying in bed five minutes after you wake
is not a luxury, but so lying for an hour is.  The man who is fond precociously of stirring
may be a spoon, but the man who lies in bed half the day is something worse.  Then it must
be remembered that a single indulgence in one luxury produces scarcely any effect on the mind
or body, but a habit of indulging in that luxury has a great effect.

   "The sins which practice burns into the blood,
   And not the one dark hour which brings remorse
   Will brand us after of whose fold we be."

I am surely right in noticing that the rich man is said to have fared sumptuously every day,
as though faring sumptuously might have no significance, but the constantly faring sumptuously
was what had degraded and debased the man below the level of the beggar at his gate.  I feel
that to be luxurious occasionally is no bad thing, if we can keep our self-control, and return
constantly to simple habits.  There is something very natural in the prayer which a little
child was overheard to make--"God, make me a good little girl, but"--after a pause--"naughty
sometimes."  It is the habit of being naughty which is pernicious.  Can anyone doubt that the
man who, on the whole, leads a hardy and not over- indulgent life will be more capable of performing
any duty which may devolve upon him than a man who "had but fed on the roses and lain in the
lilies of life."

Sydney Smith, in his sketches of Moral Philosophy, notices that habits of indulgence grow on
us so much that we go through the act of indulgence without noticing it or feeling the pleasure
of it; yet, if some accident occurs to rob us of our accustomed pleasure, we feel the want
of it most keenly.  Speaking of Hobbes, the philosopher, he says that he had twelve pipes of
tobacco laid by him every night before he began to write. Without this luxury "he could have
done nothing; all his speculations would have been at an end, and without his twelve pipes
he might have been a friend to devotion or to freedom, which in the customary tenour of his
thoughts he certainly was not."

In Fielding's Life of Jonathan Wild Mr. Wild plays at cards with the Count.

If we are curious to know who is the most degraded and most wretched of human beings, look
for the man who has practised a vice so long that he curses it and clings to it.  Say everything
for vice which you can say, magnify any pleasure as much as you please; but don't believe you
can keep it, don't believe you have any secret for sending on quicker the sluggish blood and
for refreshing the faded nerve.

There is no doubt that habits of luxury produce discontent, the more we have the more we want.
The sin of covetousness is not (curiously enough) the sin of the poor, but of the rich.  It
is the rich man who covets Naboth's vineyard.  I knew an old lady who had a beautiful house
facing Hyde Park, and lived by herself with a companion, and certainly had room enough and
to spare.  Her house was one of a row, and the next house being an end house projected, so
that all the front rooms were about a foot longer than those of the old lady.  "Ah," she used
to sigh, "he's a dear good man, the old colonel, but I should like to have his house--please
God to take him!"  This showed a submission to the will of Providence, and a desire for the
everlasting welfare of her neighbour which was truly edifying; but covetousness was at the
root of it, and a longing to indulge herself.

The effect of habits of luxury upon the brute creation is easily seen. How dreadfully the harmless
necessary cat deteriorates when it is over- fed and over-warmed.  It may, for all I know, become
more humane, but it becomes absolutely unfit to get its own living.  What is more despicable
than a lady's lap-dog, grown fat and good for nothing, and only able to eat macaroons!  Even
worms, according to Darwin, when constantly fed on delicacies, become indolent and lose all
their cunning.

