Miss Emily had in her bedroom a similar funeral trophy, sacred to the memory of her deceased
mother,--besides which there were, framed and glazed, in the little sitting-room, two embroidered
shepherdesses standing with rueful faces, in charge of certain animals of an uncertain breed
between sheep and pigs. The poor little soul had mentally resolved to make Mara the heiress
of all the skill and knowledge of the arts by which she had been enabled to consummate these
marvels.

"She is naturally a lady-like little thing," she said to herself, "and if I know anything of
accomplishments, she shall have them."

Just about the time that Miss Emily came to this resolution, had she been clairvoyant, she
might have seen Mara sitting very quietly, busy in the solitude of her own room with a little
sprig of partridge-berry before her, whose round green leaves and brilliant scarlet berries
she had been for hours trying to imitate, as appeared from the scattered sketches and fragments
around her. In fact, before Zephaniah started on his spring fishing, he had caught her one
day very busy at work of the same kind, with bits of charcoal, and some colors compounded out
of wild berries; and so out of his capacious pocket, after his return, he drew a little box
of water-colors and a lead-pencil and square of India-rubber, which he had bought for her in
Portland on his way home.

Hour after hour the child works, so still, so fervent, so earnest,--going over and over, time
after time, her simple, ignorant methods to make it "look like," and stopping, at times, to
give the true artist's sigh, as the little green and scarlet fragment lies there hopelessly,
unapproachably perfect. Ignorantly to herself, the hands of the little pilgrim are knocking
at the very door where Giotto and Cimabue knocked in the innocent child-life of Italian art.

"Why won't it look round?" she said to Moses, who had come in behind her.

"Why, Mara, did you do these?" said Moses, astonished; "why, how well they are done! I should
know in a minute what they were meant for."

Mara flushed up at being praised by Moses, but heaved a deep sigh as she looked back.

"It's so pretty, that sprig," she said; "if I only could make it just like"--

"Why, nobody expects that," said Moses, "it's like enough, if people only know what you mean
it for. But come, now, get your bonnet, and come with me in the boat. Captain Kittridge has
just brought down our new one, and I'm going to take you over to Eagle Island, and we'll take
our dinner and stay all day; mother says so."

"Oh, how nice!" said the little girl, running cheerfully for her sun-bonnet.

At the house-door they met Mrs. Pennel, with a little closely covered tin pail.

"Here's your dinner, children; and, Moses, mind and take good care of her."

"Never fear me mother, I've been to the Banks; there wasn't a man there could manage a boat
better than I could."

"Yes, grandmother," said Mara, "you ought to see how strong his arms are; I believe he will
be like Samson one of these days if he keeps on."

So away they went. It was a glorious August forenoon, and the sombre spruces and shaggy hemlocks
that dipped and rippled in the waters were penetrated to their deepest recesses with the clear
brilliancy of the sky,--a true northern sky, without a cloud, without even a softening haze,
defining every outline, revealing every minute point, cutting with sharp decision the form
of every promontory and rock, and distant island.

The blue of the sea and the blue of the sky were so much the same, that when the children had
rowed far out, the little boat seemed to float midway, poised in the centre of an azure sphere,
with a firmament above and a firmament below. Mara leaned dreamily over the side of the boat,
and drew her little hands through the waters as they rippled along to the swift oars' strokes,
and she saw as the waves broke, and divided and shivered around the boat, a hundred little
faces, with brown eyes and golden hair, gleaming up through the water, and dancing away over
rippling waves, and thought that so the sea-nymphs might look who came up from the coral caves
when they ring the knell of drowned people. Moses sat opposite to her, with his coat off, and
his heavy black curls more wavy and glossy than ever, as the exercise made them damp with perspiration.

Eagle Island lay on the blue sea, a tangled thicket of evergreens,--white pine, spruce, arbor
vitæ, and fragrant silver firs. A little strip of white beach bound it, like a silver setting
to a gem. And there Moses at length moored his boat, and the children landed. The island was
wholly solitary, and there is something to children quite delightful in feeling that they have
a little lonely world all to themselves. Childhood is itself such an enchanted island, separated
by mysterious depths from the mainland of nature, life, and reality.

Moses had subsided a little from the glorious heights on which he seemed to be in the first
flush of his return, and he and Mara, in consequence, were the friends of old time. It is true
he thought himself quite a man, but the manhood of a boy is only a tiny masquerade,--a fantastic,
dreamy prevision of real manhood. It was curious that Mara, who was by all odds the most precociously
developed of the two, never thought of asserting herself a woman; in fact, she seldom thought
of herself at all, but dreamed and pondered of almost everything else.

"I declare," said Moses, looking up into a thick-branched, rugged old hemlock, which stood
all shaggy, with heavy beards of gray moss drooping from its branches, "there's an eagle's
nest up there; I mean to go and see." And up he went into the gloomy embrace of the old tree,
crackling the dead branches, wrenching off handfuls of gray moss, rising higher and higher,
every once in a while turning and showing to Mara his glowing face and curly hair through a
dusky green frame of boughs, and then mounting again. "I'm coming to it," he kept exclaiming.

Meanwhile his proceedings seemed to create a sensation among the feathered house-keepers, one
of whom rose and sailed screaming away into the air. In a moment after there was a swoop of
wings, and two eagles returned and began flapping and screaming about the head of the boy.

Mara, who stood at the foot of the tree, could not see clearly what was going on, for the thickness
of the boughs; she only heard a great commotion and rattling of the branches, the scream of
the birds, and the swooping of their wings, and Moses's valorous exclamations, as he seemed
to be laying about him with a branch which he had broken off.

At last he descended victorious, with the eggs in his pocket. Mara stood at the foot of the
tree, with her sun-bonnet blown back, her hair streaming, and her little arms upstretched,
as if to catch him if he fell.

"Oh, I was so afraid!" she said, as he set foot on the ground.

"Afraid? Pooh! Who's afraid? Why, you might know the old eagles couldn't beat me."

"Ah, well, I know how strong you are; but, you know, I couldn't help it. But the poor birds,--do
hear 'em scream. Moses, don't you suppose they feel bad?"

"No, they're only mad, to think they couldn't beat me. I beat them just as the Romans used
to beat folks,--I played their nest was a city, and I spoiled it."

"I shouldn't want to spoil cities!" said Mara.

"That's 'cause you are a girl,--I'm a man, and men always like war; I've taken one city this
afternoon, and mean to take a great many more."

"But, Moses, do you think war is right?"

"Right? why, yes, to be sure; if it ain't, it's a pity; for it's all that has ever been done
in this world. In the Bible, or out, certainly it's right. I wish I had a gun now, I'd stop
those old eagles' screeching."

"But, Moses, we shouldn't want any one to come and steal all our things, and then shoot us."

"How long you do think about things!" said Moses, impatient at her pertinacity. "I am older
than you, and when I tell you a thing's right, you ought to believe it. Besides, don't you
take hens' eggs every day, in the barn? How do you suppose the hens like that?"

This was a home-thrust, and for the moment threw the little casuist off the track. She carefully
folded up the idea, and laid it away on the inner shelves of her mind till she could think
more about it. Pliable as she was to all outward appearances, the child had her own still,
interior world, where all her little notions and opinions stood up crisp and fresh, like flowers
that grow in cool, shady places. If anybody too rudely assailed a thought or suggestion she
put forth, she drew it back again into this quiet inner chamber, and went on. Reader, there
are some women of this habit; and there is no independence and pertinacity of opinion like
that of these seemingly soft, quiet creatures, whom it is so easy to silence, and so difficult
to convince. Mara, little and unformed as she yet was, belonged to the race of those spirits
to whom is deputed the office of the angel in the Apocalypse, to whom was given the golden
rod which measured the New Jerusalem. Infant though she was, she had ever in her hands that
invisible measuring-rod, which she was laying to the foundations of all actions and thoughts.
There may, perhaps, come a time when the saucy boy, who now steps so superbly, and predominates
so proudly in virtue of his physical strength and daring, will learn to tremble at the golden
measuring-rod, held in the hand of a woman.

"Howbeit, that is not first which is spiritual, but that which is natural." Moses is the type
of the first unreflecting stage of development, in which are only the out-reachings of active
faculties, the aspirations that tend toward manly accomplishments. Seldom do we meet sensitiveness
of conscience or discriminating reflection as the indigenous growth of a very vigorous physical
development. Your true healthy boy has the breezy, hearty virtues of a Newfoundland dog, the
wild fullness of life of the young race-colt. Sentiment, sensibility, delicate perceptions,
spiritual aspirations, are plants of later growth.

But there are, both of men and women, beings born into this world in whom from childhood the
spiritual and the reflective predominate over the physical. In relation to other human beings,
they seem to be organized much as birds are in relation to other animals. They are the artists,
the poets, the unconscious seers, to whom the purer truths of spiritual instruction are open.
Surveying man merely as an animal, these sensitively organized beings, with their feebler physical
powers, are imperfect specimens of life. Looking from the spiritual side, they seem to have
a noble strength, a divine force. The types of this latter class are more commonly among women
than among men. Multitudes of them pass away in earlier years, and leave behind in many hearts
the anxious wonder, why they came so fair only to mock the love they kindled. They who live
to maturity are the priests and priestesses of the spiritual life, ordained of God to keep
the balance between the rude but absolute necessities of physical life and the higher sphere
to which that must at length give place.

CHAPTER XVII

LESSONS

Moses felt elevated some inches in the world by the gift of a new Latin grammar, which had
been bought for him in Brunswick. It was a step upward in life; no graduate from a college
ever felt more ennobled.

"Wal', now, I tell ye, Moses Pennel," said Miss Roxy, who, with her press-board and big flat-iron,
was making her autumn sojourn in the brown house, "I tell ye Latin ain't just what you think
'tis, steppin' round so crank; you must remember what the king of Israel said to Benhadad,
king of Syria."

"I don't remember; what did he say?"

"I remember," said the soft voice of Mara; "he said, 'Let not him that putteth on the harness
boast as him that putteth it off.'"

"Good for you, Mara," said Miss Roxy; "if some other folks read their Bibles as much as you
do, they'd know more."

Between Moses and Miss Roxy there had always been a state of sub-acute warfare since the days
of his first arrival, she regarding him as an unhopeful interloper, and he regarding her as
a grim-visaged, interfering gnome, whom he disliked with all the intense, unreasoning antipathy
of childhood.

"I hate that old woman," he said to Mara, as he flung out of the door.

"Why, Moses, what for?" said Mara, who never could comprehend hating anybody.

"I do hate her, and Aunt Ruey, too. They are two old scratching cats; they hate me, and I hate
them; they're always trying to bring me down, and I won't be brought down."

Mara had sufficient instinctive insight into the feminine rôle in the domestic concert not
to adventure a direct argument just now in favor of her friends, and therefore she proposed
that they should sit down together under a cedar hard by, and look over the first lesson.

"Miss Emily invited me to go over with you," she said, "and I should like so much to hear you
recite."

Moses thought this very proper, as would any other male person, young or old, who has been
habitually admired by any other female one. He did not doubt that, as in fishing and rowing,
and all other things he had undertaken as yet, he should win himself distinguished honors.

"See here," he said; "Mr. Sewell told me I might go as far as I liked, and I mean to take all
the declensions to begin with; there's five of 'em, and I shall learn them for the first lesson;
then I shall take the adjectives next, and next the verbs, and so in a fortnight get into reading."

Mara heaved a sort of sigh. She wished she had been invited to share this glorious race; but
she looked on admiring when Moses read, in a loud voice, "Penna, pennæ, pennæ, pennam," etc.

"There now, I believe I've got it," he said, handing Mara the book; and he was perfectly astonished
to find that, with the book withdrawn, he boggled, and blundered, and stumbled ingloriously.
In vain Mara softly prompted, and looked at him with pitiful eyes as he grew red in the face
with his efforts to remember.

"Confound it all!" he said, with an angry flush, snatching back the book; "it's more trouble
than it's worth."

Again he began the repetition, saying it very loud and plain; he said it over and over till
his mind wandered far out to sea, and while his tongue repeated "penna, pennæ," he was counting
the white sails of the fishing-smacks, and thinking of pulling up codfish at the Banks.

"There now, Mara, try me," he said, and handed her the book again; "I'm sure I must know it now."

But, alas! with the book the sounds glided away; and "penna" and "pennam" and "pennis" and
"pennæ" were confusedly and indiscriminately mingled. He thought it must be Mara's fault; she
didn't read right, or she told him just as he was going to say it, or she didn't tell him right;
or was he a fool? or had he lost his senses?

That first declension has been a valley of humiliation to many a sturdy boy--to many a bright
one, too; and often it is, that the more full of thought and vigor the mind is, the more difficult
it is to narrow it down to the single dry issue of learning those sounds. Heinrich Heine said
the Romans would never have found time to conquer the world, if they had had to learn their
own language; but that, luckily for them, they were born into the knowledge of what nouns form
their accusatives in "um."

Long before Moses had learned the first declension, Mara knew it by heart; for her intense
anxiety for him, and the eagerness and zeal with which she listened for each termination, fixed
them in her mind. Besides, she was naturally of a more quiet and scholar-like turn than he,--more
intellectually developed. Moses began to think, before that memorable day was through, that
there was some sense in Aunt Roxy's quotation of the saying of the King of Israel, and materially
to retrench his expectations as to the time it might take to master the grammar; but still,
his pride and will were both committed, and he worked away in this new sort of labor with energy.

It was a fine, frosty November morning, when he rowed Mara across the bay in a little boat
to recite his first lesson to Mr. Sewell.

Miss Emily had provided a plate of seed-cake, otherwise called cookies, for the children, as
was a kindly custom of old times, when the little people were expected. Miss Emily had a dim
idea that she was to do something for Mara in her own department, while Moses was reciting
his lesson; and therefore producing a large sampler, displaying every form and variety of marking-stitch,
she began questioning the little girl, in a low tone, as to her proficiency in that useful
accomplishment.

Presently, however, she discovered that the child was restless and uneasy, and that she answered
without knowing what she was saying. The fact was that she was listening, with her whole soul
in her eyes, and feeling through all her nerves, every word Moses was saying. She knew all
the critical places, where he was likely to go wrong; and when at last, in one place, he gave
the wrong termination, she involuntarily called out the right one, starting up and turning
towards them. In a moment she blushed deeply, seeing Mr. Sewell and Miss Emily both looking
at her with surprise.

"Come here, pussy," said Mr. Sewell, stretching out his hand to her. "Can you say this?"

"I believe I could, sir."

"Well, try it."

She went through without missing a word. Mr. Sewell then, for curiosity, heard her repeat all
the other forms of the lesson. She had them perfectly.

"Very well, my little girl," he said, "have you been studying, too?"

"I heard Moses say them so often," said Mara, in an apologetic manner, "I couldn't help learning
them."

"Would you like to recite with Moses every day?"

"Oh, yes, sir, so much."

"Well, you shall. It is better for him to have company."

Mara's face brightened, and Miss Emily looked with a puzzled air at her brother.

"So," she said, when the children had gone home, "I thought you wanted me to take Mara under
my care. I was going to begin and teach her some marking stitches, and you put her up to studying
Latin. I don't understand you."

"Well, Emily, the fact is, the child has a natural turn for study, that no child of her age
ought to have; and I have done just as people always will with such children; there's no sense
in it, but I wanted to do it. You can teach her marking and embroidery all the same; it would
break her little heart, now, if I were to turn her back."

"I do not see of what use Latin can be to a woman."

"Of what use is embroidery?"

"Why, that is an accomplishment."

"Ah, indeed!" said Mr. Sewell, contemplating the weeping willow and tombstone trophy with a
singular expression, which it was lucky for Miss Emily's peace she did not understand. The
fact was, that Mr. Sewell had, at one period of his life, had an opportunity of studying and
observing minutely some really fine works of art, and the remembrance of them sometimes rose
up to his mind, in the presence of the chefs-d'oeuvre on which his sister rested with so much
complacency. It was a part of his quiet interior store of amusement to look at these bits of
Byzantine embroidery round the room, which affected him always with a subtle sense of drollery.

"You see, brother," said Miss Emily, "it is far better for women to be accomplished than learned."

"You are quite right in the main," said Mr. Sewell, "only you must let me have my own way just
for once. One can't be consistent always."

So another Latin grammar was bought, and Moses began to feel a secret respect for his little
companion, that he had never done before, when he saw how easily she walked through the labyrinths
which at first so confused him. Before this, the comparison had been wholly in points where
superiority arose from physical daring and vigor; now he became aware of the existence of another
kind of strength with which he had not measured himself. Mara's opinion in their mutual studies
began to assume a value in his eyes that her opinions on other subjects had never done, and
she saw and felt, with a secret gratification, that she was becoming more to him through their
mutual pursuit. To say the truth, it required this fellowship to inspire Moses with the patience
and perseverance necessary for this species of acquisition. His active, daring temperament
little inclined him to patient, quiet study. For anything that could be done by two hands,
he was always ready; but to hold hands still and work silently in the inner forces was to him
a species of undertaking that seemed against his very nature; but then he would do it--he would
not disgrace himself before Mr. Sewell, and let a girl younger than himself outdo him.

But the thing, after all, that absorbed more of Moses's thoughts than all his lessons was the
building and rigging of a small schooner, at which he worked assiduously in all his leisure
moments. He had dozens of blocks of wood, into which he had cut anchor moulds; and the melting
of lead, the running and shaping of anchors, the whittling of masts and spars took up many
an hour. Mara entered into all those things readily, and was too happy to make herself useful
in hemming the sails.

When the schooner was finished, they built some ways down by the sea, and invited Sally Kittridge
over to see it launched.

"There!" he said, when the little thing skimmed down prosperously into the sea and floated
gayly on the waters, "when I'm a man, I'll have a big ship; I'll build her, and launch her,
and command her, all myself; and I'll give you and Sally both a passage in it, and we'll go
off to the East Indies--we'll sail round the world!"

None of the three doubted the feasibility of this scheme; the little vessel they had just launched
seemed the visible prophecy of such a future; and how pleasant it would be to sail off, with
the world all before them, and winds ready to blow them to any port they might wish!

The three children arranged some bread and cheese and doughnuts on a rock on the shore, to
represent the collation that was usually spread in those parts at a ship launch, and felt quite
like grown people--acting life beforehand in that sort of shadowy pantomime which so delights
little people. Happy, happy days--when ships can be made with a jack-knife and anchors run
in pine blocks, and three children together can launch a schooner, and the voyage of the world
can all be made in one sunny Saturday afternoon!

"Mother says you are going to college," said Sally to Moses.

"Not I, indeed," said Moses; "as soon as I get old enough, I'm going up to Umbagog among the
lumberers, and I'm going to cut real, splendid timber for my ship, and I'm going to get it
on the stocks, and have it built to suit myself."

"What will you call her?" said Sally.

"I haven't thought of that," said Moses.

"Call her the Ariel," said Mara.

"What! after the spirit you were telling us about?" said Sally.

"Ariel is a pretty name," said Moses. "But what is that about a spirit?"

"Why," said Sally, "Mara read us a story about a ship that was wrecked, and a spirit called
Ariel, that sang a song about the drowned mariners."

Mara gave a shy, apprehensive glance at Moses, to see if this allusion called up any painful
recollections.

No; instead of this, he was following the motions of his little schooner on the waters with
the briskest and most unconcerned air in the world.

"Why didn't you ever show me that story, Mara?" said Moses.

Mara colored and hesitated; the real reason she dared not say.

"Why, she read it to father and me down by the cove," said Sally, "the afternoon that you came
home from the Banks; I remember how we saw you coming in; don't you, Mara?"

"What have you done with it?" said Moses.

"I've got it at home," said Mara, in a faint voice; "I'll show it to you, if you want to see
it; there are such beautiful things in it."

That evening, as Moses sat busy, making some alterations in his darling schooner, Mara produced
her treasure, and read and explained to him the story. He listened with interest, though without
any of the extreme feeling which Mara had thought possible, and even interrupted her once in
the middle of the celebrated--

    "Full fathom five thy father lies,"

by asking her to hold up the mast a minute, while he drove in a peg to make it rake a little
more. He was, evidently, thinking of no drowned father, and dreaming of no possible sea-caves,
but acutely busy in fashioning a present reality; and yet he liked to hear Mara read, and,
when she had done, told her that he thought it was a pretty--quite a pretty story, with such
a total absence of recognition that the story had any affinities with his own history, that
Mara was quite astonished.

She lay and thought about him hours, that night, after she had gone to bed; and he lay and
thought about a new way of disposing a pulley for raising a sail, which he determined to try
the effect of early in the morning.

What was the absolute truth in regard to the boy? Had he forgotten the scenes of his early
life, the strange catastrophe that cast him into his present circumstances? To this we answer
that all the efforts of Nature, during the early years of a healthy childhood, are bent on
effacing and obliterating painful impressions, wiping out from each day the sorrows of the
last, as the daily tide effaces the furrows on the seashore. The child that broods, day after
day, over some fixed idea, is so far forth not a healthy one. It is Nature's way to make first
a healthy animal, and then develop in it gradually higher faculties. We have seen our two children
unequally matched hitherto, because unequally developed. There will come a time, by and by
in the history of the boy, when the haze of dreamy curiosity will steam up likewise from his
mind, and vague yearnings, and questionings, and longings possess and trouble him, but it must
be some years hence.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here for a season we leave both our child friends, and when ten years have passed over their
heads,--when Moses shall be twenty, and Mara seventeen,--we will return again to tell their
story, for then there will be one to tell. Let us suppose in the interval, how Moses and Mara
read Virgil with the minister, and how Mara works a shepherdess with Miss Emily, which astonishes
the neighborhood,--but how by herself she learns, after divers trials, to paint partridge,
and checkerberry, and trailing arbutus,--how Moses makes better and better ships, and Sally
grows up a handsome girl, and goes up to Brunswick to the high school,--how Captain Kittridge
tells stories, and Miss Roxy and Miss Ruey nurse and cut and make and mend for the still rising
generation,--how there are quiltings and tea-drinkings and prayer meetings and Sunday sermons,--how
Zephaniah and Mary Pennel grow old gradually and graciously, as the sun rises and sets, and
the eternal silver tide rises and falls around our little gem, Orr's Island.

CHAPTER XVIII

SALLY

"Now, where's Sally Kittridge! There's the clock striking five, and nobody to set the table.
Sally, I say! Sally!"

"Why, Mis' Kittridge," said the Captain, "Sally's gone out more'n an hour ago, and I expect
she's gone down to Pennel's to see Mara; 'cause, you know, she come home from Portland to-day."

"Well, if she's come home, I s'pose I may as well give up havin' any good of Sally, for that
girl fairly bows down to Mara Lincoln and worships her."

"Well, good reason," said the Captain. "There ain't a puttier creature breathin'. I'm a'most
a mind to worship her myself."

"Captain Kittridge, you ought to be ashamed of yourself, at your age, talking as you do."

"Why, laws, mother, I don't feel my age," said the frisky Captain, giving a sort of skip. "It
don't seem more'n yesterday since you and I was a-courtin', Polly. What a life you did lead
me in them days! I think you kep' me on the anxious seat a pretty middlin' spell."

"I do wish you wouldn't talk so. You ought to be ashamed to be triflin' round as you do. Come,
now, can't you jest tramp over to Pennel's and tell Sally I want her?"

"Not I, mother. There ain't but two gals in two miles square here, and I ain't a-goin' to be
the feller to shoo 'em apart. What's the use of bein' gals, and young, and putty, if they can't
get together and talk about their new gownds and the fellers? That ar's what gals is for."

"I do wish you wouldn't talk in that way before Sally, father, for her head is full of all
sorts of vanity now; and as to Mara, I never did see a more slack-twisted, flimsy thing than
she's grown up to be. Now Sally's learnt to do something, thanks to me. She can brew, and she
can make bread and cake and pickles, and spin, and cut, and make. But as to Mara, what does
she do? Why, she paints pictur's. Mis' Pennel was a-showin' on me a blue-jay she painted, and
I was a-thinkin' whether she could brile a bird fit to be eat if she tried; and she don't know
the price of nothin'," continued Mrs. Kittridge, with wasteful profusion of negatives.

"Well," said the Captain, "the Lord makes some things jist to be looked at. Their work is to
be putty, and that ar's Mara's sphere. Restlessness and confusion was rife. Man wanted
to be convinced of his death, and also participate in it. Finally found him three Samnite shepherds
fifteen paces from the spot where had stood Mathos tent. You recognized him by his long beard
and called the others.

He lay on his back, his arms pressed to the body and closed her legs, like a dead man, to be buried. But
his lean sides rose and fell and his still wide open Eyes staring
out of the dead white face in horrible way ahead constantly.

The Barbarians looked at him first with astonishment.

Since he lived in the pit, had he was almost forgotten. Now, under the spell of old memories, so
they stayed at a distance stand by him, not daring to lay hands on him.

But standing back grumbled and pushed forward until a Garamantes walked through the crowd. He
swung a sickle. Everyone understood his intention. The faces were red, and full Shame about their
own cowardice roared all: "Yes! yes! "

The man with the crooked iron approached Gisgo. He grabbed the head of the old man, put it on
his knee and cut it off with rapid cuts. Gisgos head fell to the ground. Two large Blood flows
drilled a hole in the dust. Zarzas pounced on the severed head light-footed and ran it as a leopard
to the camp of the Carthaginians.

When he had two third of the mountain slope behind him, he pulled the beard from his head Gisgos Breast
circled out, with his arm repeatedly through the air and then let fly his head. He described
a wide arc and disappeared behind the Punic entrenchment. Soon rose above the poles of the
wall two crossed flags, the usual sign that one requesting the return
of the dead.

Since four specially selected gigantic heralds trumpets also covered with large and explained Spoken
by the iron tubes that henceforth between the Carthaginians and the barbarians do not trust faith,
nor pity, nor were gods, that they reject in advance all negotiations
and would return any negotiator with cut hands.

       Immediately afterwards they sent Spendius to Hippo-Diarrhyt to get
food.

The Tyrian city sent the same evening. They ate greedily. Then, when all the strengthened had
hastily snatched up the mercenaries up the remnants of their baggage and their broken weapons.
The women put in the middle and without mercy against the wounded, no use, to them, They marched
at a brisk pace towards the sea, like a pack of wolves honing.

They were going to Hippo Diarrhyt, determined to take it because they needed a City.

* * * * *

As Hamilcar perceived the march, he was very angry, in spite of the proud feeling that he this flight,
in and of themselves prepared. He would attack it on the spot with
fresh troops like.

Another such day and the war was over! But he pulled out even longer, so the barbarians would
come back strengthened. Nor could the Tyrian cities to join them. His clemency towards the vanquished
had been of no use. He decided, from now on relentlessly be.

That same evening he sent the Grand Council a dromedary, which with the bracelets of the fallen was
loaded, and ordered under the most terrible threats, his gain to send.

He was generally lost long ago. The news of his victory, said a terror to amazement bordering forth.
The return of the Zaimph that Hamilcar hinted vaguely, completed the miracle. Apparently, now
belonged to him the favor of the gods, and he was the mainstay of Carthage.

None of his political opponents ventured a complaint or accusation
put forward.

Thanks the enthusiasm of some and the cowardice of the other was once an army of five thousand
Man before the specified period march.

It quickly moved from Utica to meet the Suffet in the back, while a further three thousand Man
core troops were shipped to end up with Hippo-Diarrhyt and the barbarians
of distributing them there.

Hanno had accepted the command, but gave the land army Magdassan his deputy, as he led the troops
on the ships in person. He was entitled to the shaking of the Litter is no longer tolerated. His
illness had made him eat his nostrils and lips and dug a wide hole in his face. At ten paces
you saw him in the throat down, and he was so well aware of his ugliness, he disguised himself
as a woman.

Hippo-Diarrhyt listened to his calls any more than on that of the
barbarians.

However, let the inhabitants of these foods in baskets down every morning, taking the Reported
towers down, the Republic you press hard, they begged the soldiers therefore be discounted.
By signs they taught the same assurances to the Carthaginian fleet in the Oceans crossed.

Hanno contented himself to block the port and did not dare to attack. But he persuaded the Council
of Hippo-Diarrhyt to take in three hundred soldiers. Then he sailed to the Cape the grapes and
made a wide detour to cover the barbarians - an inappropriate, so dangerous beginning. His jealousy
prevented him from to support the Suffet. He began from its spies
thwarted all his plans and vulnerable so that the whole company.

At last Hamilcar wrote the Great rate and called Hanno's removal. Since this was after Carthage
recalled, angry about the wretchedness of the old and the folly of his colleagues.

Sun was one, therefore, after so much hope in a deplorable situation
than before, but efforts were made not to think about it, so do not
even talk about it.

Of adversity as if it were not enough, it was learned at all then that the mercenaries in Sardinia,
the commander crucified, taken possession of the forts and the Canaanite origin men everywhere
had massacred. This threatened the Republic of Rome directly to a war if they do not pay twelve
hundred talents and Sardinia abträte.

Rome had accepted the alliance with the barbarians, and sent them cargo ships Flour and dried meat.
The Carthaginians hijacked the vehicles and took five hundred Man caught. But three days later,
a fleet of Bysazene with food to Carthage, came under a storm. The gods declared themselves clearly
against the Republic.

Then the citizens of Hippo-Diarrhyt the three hundred people attracted by a blind Hanno Alarm
on the city walls crept up behind her, she suddenly grabbed by the
legs and they threw over the walls.

The few who were not dead, were persecuted and the sea hunted.

Utica also suffered from the Punic soldiers, because after Hanno's command and example had
Magdassan including the city and requests remained deaf to Hamilcar. They gave the besiegers wine
mixed with mandrake and strangled in her sleep.

At the same time moved to the barbarians. Magdassan fled. The gates were opened, and now manifested
the two cities of Tyre their new friends unwavering devotion, their former allies on the other hand a
incomprehensible hatred.

Their waste from the Punic thing was an example of a call. Everywhere woke up hope to be self
sufficient again. Nations and cities that have been hesitant so far inconclusive, no more. Everything
started to shake. The Suffet was told there was and all hope of help. Now he was irrevocably lost.

He immediately sent Naravas to secure the borders of his empire. He decided return to Carthage,
there to make a new levy and the war again to . Begin

The barbarians in Hippo-Diarrhyt noticed his army as it came down from the mountains.

Where did the Carthaginians? No doubt they drove the hungry. Through their suffering out of his
mind, they wanted to look for a battle, despite their weakness ... But now they turned to right!
They fled, then! You could chase up them and destroy them all. The Barbarians be made quickly
in pursuit.

The Carthaginians were delayed by the Makar.

This time he was wide, and had no West Wind blown. Some were swimming through it, others relied
on their shields over. Then marched it further. The night drew on.

They no longer see.

The barbarians did not stop, but moved up river to find a ford.

Armed Bands from Tunis rushed, which also came from Utica. For each woody plant was their number to.
When the Carthaginians laid on the floor and listened, they heard the sound of marching through the
darkness. In order to stop the mercenaries, Barkas had from time to time a volley of arrows
behind to shoot. Many barbarians were. When morning dawned, one was in the Arian Bergen, in
a place where the road made a bend.

Since believed Matho, who was riding in the van, on the horizon at the summit of a hill, something green
be identified. The ground fell away gradually. Obelisks, domes, houses appeared. This was Carthage!
He had to lean against a tree, in order not to sink so hard his heart was pounding.

He thought back to everything that had happened to him since the last time he had stayed there!
He was deeply puzzled, stunned. But then it took boundless joy at the thought Salammbo again.
He probably had reason to detest her, and that he was also in the Sense, but he quickly dismissed
the of himself.

Trembling and with staring eyes, he looked down from the dome Eschmuntempels the way to the
high terrace of the palace, which shone on palm trees. A feeling of satisfaction that was sunning
his face, as if him a light sea flooding.

He spread his Arms, threw kisses to the wind and murmured: "Come on! Come on! "A sigh lifted
his chest, and tears, as long beads ran down his beard.

"What keeps you on?" Cried Spendius. "Hurry! Forward! The marshal shall escape us! What? Your
knees shake? You look at me like a drunkard! "

He stamped with impatience and urged Matho.

And as he tore open his eyes as he behold Suddenly a long-desired goal, he added:

"Ah!

Here we are! Here we are! We have it! "

Spendius had such a self-confident, triumphant appearance, that in
all his Matho of heart astonished and felt torn away.

       The words of the Greeks met him at the moment of deepest Tribulation,
turned his despair into resentment and anger showed his prey.

He ran into one of the camels that were in the baggage, it tore off the holster and hit the long strap
of his lungs to a latecomer. Alternately, he ran right and next to the rear around, like a shepherd,
which drives a herd forward.

On his thunderous cheers joined the ranks closer together. Even the lame accelerated their pace.
At the center of the isthmus, the distance between the two armies took more and more from.
The vanguard of the barbarians already marched in the dust of the Carthaginians. Soon they were
to each other very close and almost touching. But since doing the Malka Tor, the Tanga Most Goals
and the large Khamontor on. The Punic masses were divided. In three columns, they streamed in
and crowded into the vault. In this case, however, the crowd was so great that eventually No
one came forward. The lances met each other in the air, while the arrows of Barbarians bounced
against the walls.

On Khamontor you saw Hamilcar. He turned and shouted to his men to place . Make He himself dismounted
and drove his horse, as he stood there with the sword in the croup, against the barbarians.

It was a Oringer stallion, the one fed with dumplings and dropped to his knees when wanted to
sit his master. Why drove him back Hamilcar? If he wanted to make a sacrifice?

The mighty animal galloped into the midst of the enemy's spears, tore to soldiers involved her
feet in his intestines, threw, jumped on it with furious rates again and studied while the
soldiers jumped aside, stop it or watched amazed, came the Carthaginians back in order and
moved through the huge gate, which is booming behind them closed.

It did not yield. The Barbarians pressed against it, and a few minutes running through the Army
from the beginning to the end of a wave motion, which subsided gradually and finally completely ceased.

The
Carthaginians were put to the water line soldiers, the stones, bullets
and bars began to skid.

Spendius made it clear to the soldiers that they should not be stubborn. They camped now at a
distance, all determined to conquer Carthage.

* * * * *

Meanwhile, the rumor was also penetrated by the war beyond the borders of the Carthaginian empire. From
the Pillars of Hercules to the shepherds of Cyrene also dreamed of it, while their Herds were grazing,
and the caravans at night talking about the starlight. So there was
People who dared to attack the large Carthage, the city, which was
as brilliant as the sun and terrible as a god! The queen of the seas!
They had several times their Fall announced, and all had believed
in it, because all it wanted: the subject Nations such as the tributary
villages, the allied provinces as independent small strains in short,
all who hated tyranny of Carthage, there envious of his power or his
coveted treasures. The bravest had joined the soldiers on the spot.
The defeat at the Makar had shrunk but then the other, but eventually
they had again taken courage, and had advanced gradually came closer
and were now the men from the eastern areas in the dunes of Klypea
across the Gulf. Once they the barbarians saw, they came to light.

It
was not the Libyans from the neighborhood of Carthage - these were
long, the third Army - but nomads from the plateau of Barka, the bandits
from Cape Phiskus and foothills Modernism, and from Phazzana Marmarica.
They had crossed the desert and from the brackish water wells drinking,
which are built of camel bones. The Zuaesen, loaded with ostrich feathers,
had come on four carts. The Garamantines, a black veil over her face,
rode backward on their painted mares. Andre came on donkeys, wild
asses, zebras or Buffalo cause. Some dragged alongside their families
and idols, the roofs of their boat-shaped huts. They saw Ammon, whose
skin by the water of hot springs was wrinkled, Atarantes that curse
the sun, troglodytes, laughing at their dead Tree branches buried
eat, and also horrible Ausee, the locusts, Achyrmachiden that Lice
eat, and Gysanten that were painted with cinnabar and eat monkey meat.

All
were standing on the seashore in a long column wide. They moved closer
now as clouds of sand in a whirlwind. At the center of the isthmus
did support the troops, as mercenaries, before them under the city
walls lay, not stirred from the spot.

Then by Ariana ago appeared
the men of the West, Numidia. Naravas dominated namely only the Massylier,
and since they also allowed the custom to their chief failures to
leave, they had gathered at Zaineflusse and him in the first regression
Hamilcar exceeded. First came the hunters from Male Luth-Baal and
garaphischen Bergen, the lion skins and carrying their small, thin,
langmähnigen horses with the shaft of their lances articulated. Behind
them marched to the Gätuler, rumbling in from snake skin, then the
Pharusier, high with wreaths made of wax and resin on their heads,
and finally the Kauner, Makar and Tilla Baren, all armed with two
javelins and a round shield of Flußpferdhaut. And thus, though the wind of every generation sweeps its hopes and
plans like forest-leaves, none are whirled and tossed with more piteous moans than those which
come out green and fresh to shade the happy spring-time of the cradle. For the temperaments
of children are often as oddly unsuited to parents as if capricious fairies had been filling
cradles with changelings.

A meek member of the Peace Society, a tender, devout, poetical clergyman, receives an heir
from heaven, and straightway devotes him to the Christian ministry. But lo! the boy proves
a young war-horse, neighing for battle, burning for gunpowder and guns, for bowie-knives and
revolvers, and for every form and expression of physical force;--he might make a splendid trapper,
an energetic sea-captain, a bold, daring military man, but his whole boyhood is full of rebukes
and disciplines for sins which are only the blind effort of the creature to express a nature
which his parent does not and cannot understand. So again, the son that was to have upheld
the old, proud merchant's time-honored firm, that should have been mighty in ledgers and great
upon 'Change, breaks his father's heart by an unintelligible fancy for weaving poems and romances.
A father of literary aspirations, balked of privileges of early education, bends over the cradle
of his son with but one idea. This child shall have the full advantages of regular college-training;
and so for years he battles with a boy abhorring study, and fitted only for a life of out-door
energy and bold adventure,--on whom Latin forms and Greek quantities fall and melt aimless
and useless, as snow-flakes on the hide of a buffalo. Then the secret agonies,--the long years
of sorrowful watchings of those gentler nurses of humanity who receive the infant into their
bosom out of the void unknown, and strive to read its horoscope through the mists of their
prayers and tears!--what perplexities,--what confusion! Especially is this so in a community
where the moral and religious sense is so cultivated as in New England, and frail, trembling,
self-distrustful mothers are told that the shaping and ordering not only of this present life,
but of an immortal destiny, is in their hands.

On the whole, those who succeed best in the rearing of children are the tolerant and easy persons
who instinctively follow nature and accept without much inquiry whatever she sends; or that
far smaller class, wise to discern spirits and apt to adopt means to their culture and development,
who can prudently and carefully train every nature according to its true and characteristic ideal.

Zephaniah Pennel was a shrewd old Yankee, whose instincts taught him from the first, that the
waif that had been so mysteriously washed out of the gloom of the sea into his family, was
of some different class and lineage from that which might have filled a cradle of his own,
and of a nature which he could not perfectly understand. So he prudently watched and waited,
only using restraint enough to keep the boy anchored in society, and letting him otherwise
grow up in the solitary freedom of his lonely seafaring life.

The boy was from childhood, although singularly attractive, of a moody, fitful, unrestful nature,--eager,
earnest, but unsteady,--with varying phases of imprudent frankness and of the most stubborn
and unfathomable secretiveness. He was a creature of unreasoning antipathies and attractions.
As Zephaniah Pennel said of him, he was as full of hitches as an old bureau drawer. His peculiar
beauty, and a certain electrical power of attraction, seemed to form a constant circle of protection
and forgiveness around him in the home of his foster-parents; and great as was the anxiety
and pain which he often gave them, they somehow never felt the charge of him as a weariness.

We left him a boy beginning Latin with Mr. Sewell in company with the little Mara. This arrangement
progressed prosperously for a time, and the good clergyman, all whose ideas of education ran
through the halls of a college, began to have hopes of turning out a choice scholar. But when
the boy's ship of life came into the breakers of that narrow and intricate channel which divides
boyhood from manhood, the difficulties that had always attended his guidance and management
wore an intensified form. How much family happiness is wrecked just then and there! How many
mothers' and sisters' hearts are broken in the wild and confused tossings and tearings of that
stormy transition! A whole new nature is blindly upheaving itself, with cravings and clamorings,
which neither the boy himself nor often surrounding friends understand.

A shrewd observer has significantly characterized the period as the time when the boy wishes
he were dead, and everybody else wishes so too. The wretched, half-fledged, half-conscious,
anomalous creature has all the desires of the man, and none of the rights; has a double and
triple share of nervous edge and intensity in every part of his nature, and no definitely perceived
objects on which to bestow it,--and, of course, all sorts of unreasonable moods and phases
are the result.

One of the most common signs of this period, in some natures, is the love of contradiction
and opposition,--a blind desire to go contrary to everything that is commonly received among
the older people. The boy disparages the minister, quizzes the deacon, thinks the school-master
an ass, and doesn't believe in the Bible, and seems to be rather pleased than otherwise with
the shock and flutter that all these announcements create among peaceably disposed grown people.
No respectable hen that ever hatched out a brood of ducks was more puzzled what to do with
them than was poor Mrs. Pennel when her adopted nursling came into this state. Was he a boy?
an immortal soul? a reasonable human being? or only a handsome goblin sent to torment her?

"What shall we do with him, father?" said she, one Sunday, to Zephaniah, as he stood shaving
before the little looking-glass in their bedroom. "He can't be governed like a child, and he
won't govern himself like a man."

Zephaniah stopped and strapped his razor reflectively.

"We must cast out anchor and wait for day," he answered. "Prayer is a long rope with a strong
hold."

It was just at this critical period of life that Moses Pennel was drawn into associations which
awoke the alarm of all his friends, and from which the characteristic willfulness of his nature
made it difficult to attempt to extricate him.

In order that our readers may fully understand this part of our history, we must give some
few particulars as to the peculiar scenery of Orr's Island and the state of the country at
this time.

The coast of Maine, as we have elsewhere said, is remarkable for a singular interpenetration
of the sea with the land, forming amid its dense primeval forests secluded bays, narrow and
deep, into which vessels might float with the tide, and where they might nestle unseen and
unsuspected amid the dense shadows of the overhanging forest.

At this time there was a very brisk business done all along the coast of Maine in the way of
smuggling. Small vessels, lightly built and swift of sail, would run up into these sylvan fastnesses,
and there make their deposits and transact their business so as entirely to elude the vigilance
of government officers.

It may seem strange that practices of this kind should ever have obtained a strong foothold
in a community peculiar for its rigid morality and its orderly submission to law; but in this
case, as in many others, contempt of law grew out of weak and unworthy legislation. The celebrated
embargo of Jefferson stopped at once the whole trade of New England, and condemned her thousand
ships to rot at the wharves, and caused the ruin of thousands of families.

The merchants of the country regarded this as a flagrant, high-handed piece of injustice, expressly
designed to cripple New England commerce, and evasions of this unjust law found everywhere
a degree of sympathy, even in the breasts of well-disposed and conscientious people. In resistance
to the law, vessels were constantly fitted out which ran upon trading voyages to the West Indies
and other places; and although the practice was punishable as smuggling, yet it found extensive
connivance. From this beginning smuggling of all kinds gradually grew up in the community,
and gained such a foothold that even after the repeal of the embargo it still continued to
be extensively practiced. Secret depositories of contraband goods still existed in many of
the lonely haunts of islands off the coast of Maine. Hid in deep forest shadows, visited only
in the darkness of the night, were these illegal stores of merchandise. And from these secluded
resorts they found their way, no one knew or cared to say how, into houses for miles around.

There was no doubt that the practice, like all other illegal ones, was demoralizing to the
community, and particularly fatal to the character of that class of bold, enterprising young
men who would be most likely to be drawn into it.

Zephaniah Pennel, who was made of a kind of straight-grained, uncompromising oaken timber such
as built the Mayflower of old, had always borne his testimony at home and abroad against any
violations of the laws of the land, however veiled under the pretext of righting a wrong or
resisting an injustice, and had done what he could in his neighborhood to enable government
officers to detect and break up these unlawful depositories. This exposed him particularly
to the hatred and ill-will of the operators concerned in such affairs, and a plot was laid
by a few of the most daring and determined of them to establish one of their depositories on
Orr's Island, and to implicate the family of Pennel himself in the trade. This would accomplish
two purposes, as they hoped,--it would be a mortification and defeat to him,--a revenge which
they coveted; and it would, they thought, insure his silence and complicity for the strongest
reasons.

The situation and characteristics of Orr's Island peculiarly fitted it for the carrying out
of a scheme of this kind, and for this purpose we must try to give our readers a more definite
idea of it.

The traveler who wants a ride through scenery of more varied and singular beauty than can ordinarily
be found on the shores of any land whatever, should start some fine clear day along the clean
sandy road, ribboned with strips of green grass, that leads through the flat pitch-pine forests
of Brunswick toward the sea. As he approaches the salt water, a succession of the most beautiful
and picturesque lakes seems to be lying softly cradled in the arms of wild, rocky forest shores,
whose outlines are ever changing with the windings of the road.

At a distance of about six or eight miles from Brunswick he crosses an arm of the sea, and
comes upon the first of the interlacing group of islands which beautifies the shore. A ride
across this island is a constant succession of pictures, whose wild and solitary beauty entirely
distances all power of description. The magnificence of the evergreen forests,--their peculiar
air of sombre stillness,--the rich intermingling ever and anon of groves of birch, beech, and
oak, in picturesque knots and tufts, as if set for effect by some skillful landscape-gardener,--produce
a sort of strange dreamy wonder; while the sea, breaking forth both on the right hand and the
left of the road into the most romantic glimpses, seems to flash and glitter like some strange
gem which every moment shows itself through the framework of a new setting. Here and there
little secluded coves push in from the sea, around which lie soft tracts of green meadow-land,
hemmed in and guarded by rocky pine-crowned ridges. In such sheltered spots may be seen neat
white houses, nestling like sheltered doves in the beautiful solitude.

When one has ridden nearly to the end of Great Island, which is about four miles across, he
sees rising before him, from the sea, a bold romantic point of land, uplifting a crown of rich
evergreen and forest trees over shores of perpendicular rock. This is Orr's Island.

It was not an easy matter in the days of our past experience to guide a horse and carriage
down the steep, wild shores of Great Island to the long bridge that connects it with Orr's.
The sense of wild seclusion reaches here the highest degree; and one crosses the bridge with
a feeling as if genii might have built it, and one might be going over it to fairy-land. From
the bridge the path rises on to a high granite ridge, which runs from one end of the island
to the other, and has been called the Devil's Back, with that superstitious generosity which
seems to have abandoned all romantic places to so undeserving an owner.

By the side of this ridge of granite is a deep, narrow chasm, running a mile and a half or
two miles parallel with the road, and veiled by the darkest and most solemn shadows of the
primeval forest. Here scream the jays and the eagles, and fish-hawks make their nests undisturbed;
and the tide rises and falls under black branches of evergreen, from which depend long, light
festoons of delicate gray moss. The darkness of the forest is relieved by the delicate foliage
and the silvery trunks of the great white birches, which the solitude of centuries has allowed
to grow in this spot to a height and size seldom attained elsewhere.

It was this narrow, rocky cove that had been chosen by the smuggler Atkinson and his accomplices
as a safe and secluded resort for their operations. He was a seafaring man of Bath, one of
that class who always prefer uncertain and doubtful courses to those which are safe and reputable.
He was possessed of many of those traits calculated to make him a hero in the eyes of young
men; was dashing, free, and frank in his manners, with a fund of humor and an abundance of
ready anecdote which made his society fascinating; but he concealed beneath all these attractions
a character of hard, grasping, unscrupulous selfishness, and an utter destitution of moral
principle.

Moses, now in his sixteenth year, and supposed to be in a general way doing well, under the
care of the minister, was left free to come and go at his own pleasure, unwatched by Zephaniah,
whose fishing operations often took him for weeks from home. Atkinson hung about the boy's
path, engaging him first in fishing or hunting enterprises; plied him with choice preparations
of liquor, with which he would enhance the hilarity of their expeditions; and finally worked
on his love of adventure and that impatient restlessness incident to his period of life to
draw him fully into his schemes. Moses lost all interest in his lessons, often neglecting them
for days at a time--accounting for his negligence by excuses which were far from satisfactory.
When Mara would expostulate with him about this, he would break out upon her with a fierce
irritation. Was he always going to be tied to a girl's apron-string? He was tired of study,
and tired of old Sewell, whom he declared an old granny in a white wig, who knew nothing of
the world. He wasn't going to college--it was altogether too slow for him--he was going to
see life and push ahead for himself.

Mara's life during this time was intensely wearing. A frail, slender, delicate girl of thirteen,
she carried a heart prematurely old with the most distressing responsibility of mature life.
Her love for Moses had always had in it a large admixture of that maternal and care-taking
element which, in some shape or other, qualities the affection of woman to man. Ever since
that dream of babyhood, when the vision of a pale mother had led the beautiful boy to her arms,
Mara had accepted him as something exclusively her own, with an intensity of ownership that
seemed almost to merge her personal identity with his. She felt, and saw, and enjoyed, and
suffered in him, and yet was conscious of a higher nature in herself, by which unwillingly
he was often judged and condemned. His faults affected her with a kind of guilty pain, as if
they were her own; his sins were borne bleeding in her heart in silence, and with a jealous
watchfulness to hide them from every eye but hers. She busied herself day and night interceding
and making excuses for him, first to her own sensitive moral nature, and then with everybody
around, for with one or another he was coming into constant collision. She felt at this time
a fearful load of suspicion, which she dared not express to a human being.

Up to this period she had always been the only confidant of Moses, who poured into her ear
without reserve all the good and the evil of his nature, and who loved her with all the intensity
with which he was capable of loving anything. Nothing so much shows what a human being is in
moral advancement as the quality of his love. Moses Pennel's love was egotistic, exacting,
tyrannical, and capricious--sometimes venting itself in expressions of a passionate fondness,
which had a savor of protecting generosity in them, and then receding to the icy pole of surly
petulance. For all that, there was no resisting the magnetic attraction with which in his amiable
moods he drew those whom he liked to himself.

Such people are not very wholesome companions for those who are sensitively organized and predisposed
to self-sacrificing love. They keep the heart in a perpetual freeze and thaw, which, like the
American northern climate, is so particularly fatal to plants of a delicate habit. They could
live through the hot summer and the cold winter, but they cannot endure the three or four months
when it freezes one day and melts the next,--when all the buds are started out by a week of
genial sunshine, and then frozen for a fortnight. These fitful persons are of all others most
engrossing, because you are always sure in their good moods that they are just going to be
angels,--an expectation which no number of disappointments seems finally to do away. Mara believed
in Moses's future as she did in her own existence. He was going to do something great and good,--that
she was certain of. He would be a splendid man! Nobody, she thought, knew him as she did; nobody
could know how good and generous he was sometimes, and how frankly he would confess his faults,
and what noble aspirations he had!

But there was no concealing from her watchful sense that Moses was beginning to have secrets
from her. He was cloudy and murky; and at some of the most harmless inquiries in the world,
would flash out with a sudden temper, as if she had touched some sore spot. Her bedroom was
opposite to his; and she became quite sure that night after night, while she lay thinking of
him, she heard him steal down out of the house between two and three o'clock, and not return
till a little before day-dawn. Where he went, and with whom, and what he was doing, was to
her an awful mystery,--and it was one she dared not share with a human being. If she told her
kind old grandfather, she feared that any inquiry from him would only light as a spark on that
inflammable spirit of pride and insubordination that was rising within him, and bring on an
instantaneous explosion. Mr. Sewell's influence she could hope little more from; and as to
poor Mrs. Pennel, such communications would only weary and distress her, without doing any
manner of good. There was, therefore, only that one unfailing Confidant--the Invisible Friend
to whom the solitary child could pour out her heart, and whose inspirations of comfort and
guidance never fail to come again in return to true souls.

One moonlight night, as she lay thus praying, her senses, sharpened by watching, discerned
a sound of steps treading under her window, and then a low whistle. Her heart beat violently,
and she soon heard the door of Moses's room open, and then the old chamber-stairs gave forth
those inconsiderate creaks and snaps that garrulous old stairs always will when anybody is
desirous of making them accomplices in a night-secret. Mara rose, and undrawing her curtain,
saw three men standing before the house, and saw Moses come out and join them. Quick as thought
she threw on her clothes and wrapping her little form in a dark cloak, with a hood, followed
them out. She kept at a safe distance behind them,--so far back as just to keep them in sight.
They never looked back, and seemed to say but little till they approached the edge of that
deep belt of forest which shrouds so large a portion of the island. She hurried along, now
nearer to them lest they should be lost to view in the deep shadows, while they went on crackling
and plunging through the dense underbrush.

CHAPTER XXI

THE TEMPTER

It was well for Mara that so much of her life had been passed in wild forest rambles. She looked
frail as the rays of moonbeam which slid down the old white-bearded hemlocks, but her limbs
were agile and supple as steel; and while the party went crashing on before, she followed with
such lightness that the slight sound of her movements was entirely lost in the heavy crackling
plunges of the party. Her little heart was beating fast and hard; but could any one have seen
her face, as it now and then came into a spot of moonshine, they might have seen it fixed in
a deadly expression of resolve and determination. She was going after him--no matter where;
she was resolved to know who and what it was that was leading him away, as her heart told her,
to no good. Deeper and deeper into the shadows of the forest they went, and the child easily
kept up with them.

Mara had often rambled for whole solitary days in this lonely wood, and knew all its rocks
and dells the whole three miles to the long bridge at the other end of the island. But she
had never before seen it under the solemn stillness of midnight moonlight, which gives to the
most familiar objects such a strange, ghostly charm. After they had gone a mile into the forest,
she could see through the black spruces silver gleams of the sea, and hear, amid the whirr
and sway of the pine-tops, the dash of the ever restless tide which pushed up the long cove.
It was at the full, as she could discern with a rapid glance of her practiced eye, expertly
versed in the knowledge of every change of the solitary nature around.

And now the party began to plunge straight down the rocky ledge of the Devil's Back, on which
they had been walking hitherto, into the deep ravine where lay the cove. It was a scrambling,
precipitous way, over perpendicular walls of rock, whose crevices furnished anchoring-places
for grand old hemlocks or silver-birches, and whose rough sides, leathery with black flaps
of lichen, were all tangled and interlaced with thick netted bushes. The men plunged down laughing,
shouting, and swearing at their occasional missteps, and silently as moonbeam or thistledown
the light-footed shadow went down after them.

She suddenly paused behind a pile of rock, as, through an opening between two great spruces,
the sea gleamed out like a sheet of looking-glass set in a black frame. And here the child
saw a small vessel swinging at anchor, with the moonlight full on its slack sails, and she
could hear the gentle gurgle and lick of the green-tongued waves as they dashed under it toward
the rocky shore.

Mara stopped with a beating heart as she saw the company making for the schooner. The tide
is high; will they go on board and sail away with him where she cannot follow? What could she
do? In an ecstasy of fear she kneeled down and asked God not to let him go,--to give her at
least one more chance to save him.

For the pure and pious child had heard enough of the words of these men, as she walked behind
them, to fill her with horror. She had never before heard an oath, but there came back from
these men coarse, brutal tones and words of blasphemy that froze her blood with horror. And
Moses was going with them! She felt somehow as if they must be a company of fiends bearing
him to his ruin.

For some time she kneeled there watching behind the rock, while Moses and his companions went
on board the little schooner. She had no feeling of horror at the loneliness of her own situation,
for her solitary life had made every woodland thing dear and familiar to her. She was cowering
down, on a loose, spongy bed of moss, which was all threaded through and through with the green
vines and pale pink blossoms of the mayflower, and she felt its fragrant breath streaming up
in the moist moonlight. As she leaned forward to look through a rocky crevice, her arms rested
on a bed of that brittle white moss she had often gathered with so much admiration, and a scarlet
rock-columbine, such as she loved to paint, brushed her cheek,--and all these mute fair things
seemed to strive to keep her company in her chill suspense of watchfulness. Two whippoorwills,
from a clump of silvery birches, kept calling to each other in melancholy iteration, while
she stayed there still listening, and knowing by an occasional sound of laughing, or the explosion
of some oath, that the men were not yet gone. At last they all appeared again, and came to
a cleared place among the dry leaves, quite near to the rock where she was concealed, and kindled
a fire which they kept snapping and crackling by a constant supply of green resinous hemlock
branches.

The red flame danced and leaped through the green fuel, and leaping upward in tongues of flame,
cast ruddy bronze reflections on the old pine-trees with their long branches waving with boards
of white moss,--and by the firelight Mara could see two men in sailor's dress with pistols
in their belts, and the man Atkinson, whom she had recollected as having seen once or twice
at her grandfather's. She remembered how she had always shrunk from him with a strange instinctive
dislike, half fear, half disgust, when he had addressed her with that kind of free admiration
which men of his class often feel themselves at liberty to express to a pretty girl of her
early age. He was a man that might have been handsome, had it not been for a certain strange
expression of covert wickedness. It was as if some vile evil spirit, walking, as the Scriptures
say, through dry places, had lighted on a comely man's body, in which he had set up housekeeping,
making it look like a fair house abused by an unclean owner.

As Mara watched his demeanor with Moses, she could think only of a loathsome black snake that
she had once seen in those solitary rocks;--she felt as if his handsome but evil eye were charming
him with an evil charm to his destruction.

"Well, Mo, my boy," she heard him say,--slapping Moses on the shoulder,--"this is something
like. We'll have a 'tempus,' as the college fellows say,--put down the clams to roast, and
I'll mix the punch," he said, setting over the fire a tea-kettle which they brought from the ship.

After their preparations were finished, all sat down to eat and drink. Mara listened with anxiety
and horror to a conversation such as she never heard or conceived before. It is not often that
women hear men talk in the undisguised manner which they use among themselves; but the conversation
of men of unprincipled lives, and low, brutal habits, unchecked by the presence of respectable
female society, might well convey to the horror-struck child a feeling as if she were listening
at the mouth of hell. Almost every word was preceded or emphasized by an oath; and what struck
with a death chill to her heart was, that Moses swore too, and seemed to show that desperate
anxiety to seem au fait in the language of wickedness, which boys often do at that age, when
they fancy that to be ignorant of vice is a mark of disgraceful greenness. Moses evidently
was bent on showing that he was not green,--ignorant of the pure ear to which every such word
came like the blast of death.

He drank a great deal, too, and the mirth among them grew furious and terrific. Mara, horrified
and shocked as she was, did not, however, lose that intense and alert presence of mind, natural
to persons in whom there is moral strength, however delicate be their physical frame. She felt
at once that these men were playing upon Moses; that they had an object in view; that they
were flattering and cajoling him, and leading him to drink, that they might work out some fiendish
purpose of their own. The man called Atkinson related story after story of wild adventure,
in which sudden fortunes had been made by men who, he said, were not afraid to take "the short
cut across lots." He told of piratical adventures in the West Indies,--of the fun of chasing
and overhauling ships,--and gave dazzling accounts of the treasures found on board. It was
observable that all these stories were told on the line between joke and earnest,--as frolics,
as specimens of good fun, and seeing life, etc.

At last came a suggestion,--What if they should start off together some fine day, "just for
a spree," and try a cruise in the West Indies, to see what they could pick up? They had arms,
and a gang of fine, whole-souled fellows. Moses had been tied to Ma'am Pennel's apron-string
long enough. And "hark ye," said one of them, "Moses, they say old Pennel has lots of dollars
in that old sea-chest of his'n. It would be a kindness to him to invest them for him in an
adventure."

Moses answered with a streak of the boy innocence which often remains under the tramping of
evil men, like ribbons of green turf in the middle of roads:--

"You don't know Father Pennel,--why, he'd no more come into it than"--

A perfect roar of laughter cut short this declaration, and Atkinson, slapping Moses on the
back, said,--

"By ----, Mo! you are the jolliest green dog! I shall die a-laughing of your innocence some
day. Why, my boy, can't you see? Pennel's money can be invested without asking him."

"Why, he keeps it locked," said Moses.

"And supposing you pick the lock?"

"Not I, indeed," said Moses, making a sudden movement to rise.

Mara almost screamed in her ecstasy, but she had sense enough to hold her breath.

"Ho! see him now," said Atkinson, lying back, and holding his sides while he laughed, and rolled
over; "you can get off anything on that muff,--any hoax in the world,--he's so soft! Come,
come, my dear boy, sit down. I was only seeing how wide I could make you open those great black
eyes of your'n,--that's all."

"You'd better take care how you joke with me," said Moses, with that look of gloomy determination
which Mara was quite familiar with of old. It was the rallying effort of a boy who had abandoned
the first outworks of virtue to make a stand for the citadel. And Atkinson, like a prudent
besieger after a repulse, returned to lie on his arms.

He began talking volubly on other subjects, telling stories, and singing songs, and pressing
Moses to drink.

Mara was comforted to see that he declined drinking,--that he looked gloomy and thoughtful,
in spite of the jokes of his companions; but she trembled to see, by the following conversation,
how Atkinson was skillfully and prudently making apparent to Moses the extent to which he had
him in his power. He seemed to Mara like an ugly spider skillfully weaving his web around a
fly. She felt cold and faint; but within her there was a heroic strength.

She was not going to faint; she would make herself bear up. She was going to do something to
get Moses out of this snare,--but what? At last they rose.

"It is past three o'clock," she heard one of them say.

"I say, Mo," said Atkinson, "you must make tracks for home, or you won't be in bed when Mother
Pennel calls you."

The men all laughed at this joke, as they turned to go on board the schooner.

When they were gone, Moses threw himself down and hid his face in his hands. He knew not what
pitying little face was looking down upon him from the hemlock shadows, what brave little heart
was determined to save him. He was in one of those great crises of agony that boys pass through
when they first awake from the fun and frolic of unlawful enterprises to find themselves sold
under sin, and feel the terrible logic of evil which constrains them to pass from the less
to greater crime. He felt that he was in the power of bad, unprincipled, heartless men, who,
if he refused to do their bidding, had the power to expose him. All he had been doing would
come out. His kind old foster-parents would know it. Mara would know it. Mr. Sewell and Miss
Emily would know the secrets of his life that past month. He felt as if they were all looking
at him now. He had disgraced himself,--had sunk below his education,--had been false to all
his better knowledge and the past expectations of his friends, living a mean, miserable, dishonorable
life,--and now the ground was fast sliding from under him, and the next plunge might be down
a precipice from which there would be no return. What he had done up to this hour had been
done in the roystering, inconsiderate gamesomeness of boyhood. It had been represented to himself
only as "sowing wild oats," "having steep times," "seeing a little of life," and so on; but
this night he had had propositions of piracy and robbery made to him, and he had not dared
to knock down the man that made them,--had not dared at once to break away from his company.
He must meet him again,--must go on with him, or--he groaned in agony at the thought.

It was a strong indication of that repressed, considerate habit of mind which love had wrought
in the child, that when Mara heard the boy's sobs rising in the stillness, she did not, as
she wished to, rush out and throw her arms around his neck and try to comfort him.

But she felt instinctively that she must not do this. She must not let him know that she had
discovered his secret by stealing after him thus in the night shadows. She knew how nervously
he had resented even the compassionate glances she had cast upon him in his restless, turbid
intervals during the past few weeks, and the fierceness with which he had replied to a few
timid inquiries. No,--though her heart was breaking for him, it was a shrewd, wise little heart,
and resolved not to spoil all by yielding to its first untaught impulses. She repressed herself
as the mother does who refrains from crying out when she sees her unconscious little one on
the verge of a precipice.

When Moses rose and moodily began walking homeward, she followed at a distance. She could now
keep farther off, for she knew the way through every part of the forest, and she only wanted
to keep within sound of his footsteps to make sure that he was going home. When he emerged
from the forest into the open moonlight, she sat down in its shadows and watched him as he
walked over the open distance between her and the house. He went in; and then she waited a
little longer for him to be quite retired. She thought he would throw himself on the bed, and
then she could steal in after him. So she sat there quite in the shadows.

The grand full moon was riding high and calm in the purple sky, and Harpswell Bay on the one
hand, and the wide, open ocean on the other, lay all in a silver shimmer of light. There was
not a sound save the plash of the tide, now beginning to go out, and rolling and rattling the
pebbles up and down as it came and went, and once in a while the distant, mournful intoning
of the whippoorwill. There were silent lonely ships, sailing slowly to and fro far out to sea,
turning their fair wings now into bright light and now into shadow, as they moved over the
glassy stillness. Mara could see all the houses on Harpswell Neck and the white church as clear
as in the daylight. It seemed to her some strange, unearthly dream.

As she sat there, she thought over her whole little life, all full of one thought, one purpose,
one love, one prayer, for this being so strangely given to her out of that silent sea, which
lay so like a still eternity around her,--and she revolved again what meant the vision of her
childhood. Did it not mean that she was to watch over him and save him from some dreadful danger?
That poor mother was lying now silent and peaceful under the turf in the little graveyard not
far off, and she must care for her boy.

A strong motherly feeling swelled out the girl's heart,--she felt that she must, she would,
somehow save that treasure which had so mysteriously been committed to her. So, when she thought
she had given time enough for Moses to be quietly asleep in his room, she arose and ran with
quick footsteps across the moonlit plain to the house.

The front-door was standing wide open, as was always the innocent fashion in these regions,
with a half-angle of moonlight and shadow lying within its dusky depths. Mara listened a moment,--no
sound: he had gone to bed then. "Poor boy," she said, "I hope he is asleep; how he must feel,
poor fellow! It's all the fault of those dreadful men!" said the little dark shadow to herself,
as she stole up the stairs past his room as guiltily as if she were the sinner. Once the stairs
creaked, and her heart was in her mouth, but she gained her room and shut and bolted the door.
She kneeled down by her little white bed, and thanked God that she had come in safe, and then
prayed him to teach her what to do next. She felt chilly and shivering, and crept into bed,
and lay with her great soft brown eyes wide open, intently thinking what she should do.

Should she tell her grandfather? Something instinctively said No; that the first word from
him which showed Moses he was detected would at once send him off with those wicked men. "He
would never, never bear to have this known," she said. Mr. Sewell?--ah, that was worse. She
herself shrank from letting him know what Moses had been doing; she could not bear to lower
him so much in his eyes. He could not make allowances, she thought. He is good, to be sure,
but he is so old and grave, and doesn't know how much Moses has been tempted by these dreadful
men; and then perhaps he would tell Miss Emily, and they never would want Moses to come there
any more.

"What shall I do?" she said to herself. "I must get somebody to help me or tell me what to
do. I can't tell grandmamma; it would only make her ill, and she wouldn't know what to do any
more than I. Ah, I know what I will do,--I'll tell Captain Kittridge; he was always so kind
to me; and he has been to sea and seen all sorts of men, and Moses won't care so much perhaps
to have him know, because the Captain is such a funny man, and don't take everything so seriously.
Yes, that's it. I'll go right down to the cove in the morning. God will bring me through, I
know He will;" and the little weary head fell back on the pillow asleep. And as she slept,
a smile settled over her face, perhaps a reflection from the face of her good angel, who always
beholdeth the face of our Father in Heaven.

CHAPTER XXII

A FRIEND IN NEED

Mara was so wearied with her night walk and the agitation she had been through, that once asleep
she slept long after the early breakfast hour of the family. She was surprised on awaking to
hear the slow old clock downstairs striking eight. She hastily jumped up and looked around
with a confused wonder, and then slowly the events of the past night came back upon her like
a remembered dream. She dressed herself quickly, and went down to find the breakfast things
all washed and put away, and Mrs. Pennel spinning.

"Why, dear heart," said the old lady, "how came you to sleep so?--I spoke to you twice, but
I could not make you hear."

"Has Moses been down, grandma?" said Mara, intent on the sole thought in her heart.

"Why, yes, dear, long ago,--and cross enough he was; that boy does get to be a trial,--but
come, dear, I've saved some hot cakes for you,--sit down now and eat your breakfast."

Mara made a feint of eating what her grandmother with fond officiousness would put before her,
and then rising up she put on her sun-bonnet and started down toward the cove to find her old
friend.

The queer, dry, lean old Captain had been to her all her life like a faithful kobold or brownie,
an unquestioning servant of all her gentle biddings. She dared tell him anything without diffidence
or shamefacedness; and she felt that in this trial of her life he might have in his sea-receptacle
some odd old amulet or spell that should be of power to help her. Instinctively she avoided
the house, lest Sally should see and fly out and seize her. She took a narrow path through
the cedars down to the little boat cove where the old Captain worked so merrily ten years ago,
in the beginning of our story, and where she found him now, with his coat off, busily planing
a board.

"Wal', now,--if this 'ere don't beat all!" he said, looking up and seeing her; "why, you're
looking after Sally, I s'pose? She's up to the house."

"No, Captain Kittridge, I'm come to see you."

"You be?" said the Captain, "I swow! if I ain't a lucky feller. But what's the matter?" he
said, suddenly observing her pale face and the tears in her eyes. "Hain't nothin' bad happened,--hes
there?"

"Oh! Captain Kittridge, something dreadful; and nobody but you can help me."

"Want to know, now!" said the Captain, with a grave face. "Well, come here, now, and sit down,
and tell me all about it. Don't you cry, there's a good girl! Don't, now."

Mara began her story, and went through with it in a rapid and agitated manner; and the good
Captain listened in a fidgety state of interest, occasionally relieving his mind by interjecting
"Do tell, now!" "I swan,--if that ar ain't too bad."

"That ar's rediculous conduct in Atkinson. He ought to be talked to," said the Captain, when
she had finished, and then he whistled and put a shaving in his mouth, which he chewed reflectively.

"Don't you be a mite worried, Mara," he said. "You did a great deal better to come to me than
to go to Mr. Sewell or your grand'ther either; 'cause you see these 'ere wild chaps they'll
take things from me they wouldn't from a church-member or a minister. Folks mustn't pull 'em
up with too short a rein,--they must kind o' flatter 'em off. But that ar Atkinson's too rediculous
for anything; and if he don't mind, I'll serve him out. I know a thing or two about him that
I shall shake over his head if he don't behave. Now I don't think so much of smugglin' as some
folks," said the Captain, lowering his voice to a confidential tone. "I reely don't, now; but
come to goin' off piratin',--and tryin' to put a young boy up to robbin' his best friends,--why,
there ain't no kind o' sense in that. It's p'ison mean of Atkinson. I shall tell him so, and
I shall talk to Moses."

"Oh! I'm afraid to have you," said Mara, apprehensively.

"Why, chickabiddy," said the old Captain, "you don't understand me. I ain't goin' at him with
no sermons,--I shall jest talk to him this way: Look here now, Moses, I shall say, there's
Badger's ship goin' to sail in a fortnight for China, and they want likely fellers aboard,
and I've got a hundred dollars that I'd like to send on a venture; if you'll take it and go,
why, we'll share the profits. I shall talk like that, you know. Mebbe I sha'n't let him know
what I know, and mebbe I shall; jest tip him a wink, you know; it depends on circumstances.
But bless you, child, these 'ere fellers ain't none of 'em 'fraid o' me, you see, 'cause they
know I know the ropes."

"And can you make that horrid man let him alone?" said Mara, fearfully.

"Calculate I can. 'Spect if I's to tell Atkinson a few things I know, he'd be for bein' scase
in our parts. Now, you see, I hain't minded doin' a small bit o' trade now and then with them
ar fellers myself; but this 'ere," said the Captain, stopping and looking extremely disgusted,
"why, it's contemptible, it's rediculous!"

"Do you think I'd better tell grandpapa?" said Mara.

"Don't worry your little head. I'll step up and have a talk with Pennel, this evening. He knows
as well as I that there is times when chaps must be seen to, and no remarks made. Pennel knows
that ar. Why, now, Mis' Kittridge thinks our boys turned out so well all along of her bringin'
up, and I let her think so; keeps her sort o' in spirits, you see. But Lord bless ye, child,
there's been times with Job, and Sam, and Pass, and Dass, and Dile, and all on 'em finally,
when, if I hadn't jest pulled a rope here and turned a screw there, and said nothin' to nobody,
they'd a-been all gone to smash. I never told Mis' Kittridge none o' their didos; bless you,
'twouldn't been o' no use. I never told them, neither; but I jest kind o' worked 'em off, you
know; and they's all putty 'spectable men now, as men go, you know; not like Parson Sewell,
but good, honest mates and ship-masters,--kind o' middlin' people, you know. It takes a good
many o' sich to make up a world, d'ye see."

"But oh, Captain Kittridge, did any of them use to swear?" said Mara, in a faltering voice.

"Wal', they did, consid'able," said the Captain;--then seeing the trembling of Mara's lip,
he added,--

"Ef you could a-found this 'ere out any other way, it's most a pity you'd a-heard him; 'cause
he wouldn't never have let out afore you. It don't do for gals to hear the fellers talk when
they's alone, 'cause fellers,--wal', you see, fellers will be fellers, partic'larly when they're
young. Some on 'em, they never gits over it all their lives finally."

"But oh! Captain Kittridge, that talk last night was so dreadfully wicked! and Moses!--oh,
it was dreadful to hear him!"

"Wal', yes, it was," said the Captain, consolingly; "but don't you cry, and don't you break
your little heart. I expect he'll come all right, and jine the church one of these days; 'cause
there's old Pennel, he prays,--fact now, I think there's consid'able in some people's prayers,
and he's one of the sort. And you pray, too; and I'm quite sure the good Lord must hear you.
I declare sometimes I wish you'd jest say a good word to Him for me; I should like to get the
hang o' things a little better than I do, somehow, I reely should. I've gi'n up swearing years
ago. Mis' Kittridge, she broke me o' that, and now I don't never go further than 'I vum' or
'I swow,' or somethin' o' that sort; but you see I'm old;--Moses is young; but then he's got
eddication and friends, and he'll come all right. Now you jest see ef he don't!"

This miscellaneous budget of personal experiences and friendly consolation which the good Captain
conveyed to Mara may possibly make you laugh, my reader, but the good, ropy brown man was doing
his best to console his little friend; and as Mara looked at him he was almost glorified in
her eyes--he had power to save Moses, and he would do it. She went home to dinner that day
with her heart considerably lightened. She refrained, in a guilty way, from even looking at
Moses, who was gloomy and moody.

Mara had from nature a good endowment of that kind of innocent hypocrisy which is needed as
a staple in the lives of women who bridge a thousand awful chasms with smiling, unconscious
looks, and walk, singing and scattering flowers, over abysses of fear, while their hearts are
dying within them.

She talked more volubly than was her wont with Mrs. Pennel, and with her old grandfather; she
laughed and seemed in more than usual spirits, and only once did she look up and catch the
gloomy eye of Moses. It had that murky, troubled look that one may see in the eye of a boy
when those evil waters which cast up mire and dirt have once been stirred in his soul. They
fell under her clear glance, and he made a rapid, impatient movement, as if it hurt him to
be looked at. The evil spirit in boy or man cannot bear the "touch of celestial temper;" and
the sensitiveness to eyebeams is one of the earliest signs of conscious, inward guilt.

Mara was relieved, as he flung out of the house after dinner, to see the long, dry figure of
Captain Kittridge coming up and seizing Moses by the button. From the window she saw the Captain
assuming a confidential air with him; and when they had talked together a few moments, she
saw Moses going with great readiness after him down the road to his house.

In less than a fortnight, it was settled Moses was to sail for China, and Mara was deep in
the preparations for his outfit. Once she would have felt this departure as the most dreadful
trial of her life. Now it seemed to her a deliverance for him, and she worked with a cheerful
alacrity, which seemed to Moses more than was proper, considering he was going away.

For Moses, like many others of his sex, boy or man, had quietly settled in his own mind that
the whole love of Mara's heart was to be his, to have and to hold, to use and to draw on, when
and as he liked. He reckoned on it as a sort of inexhaustible, uncounted treasure that was
his own peculiar right and property, and therefore he felt abused at what he supposed was a
disclosure of some deficiency on her part. As you remember
were quite small, I took you to my heart, if you cried, and brought up with the points my breasts
laugh. You have been sucked out of it, lady suggested, "They are on their withered bosom.
"Now I'm old and can not do more for you! You do not love me everything! Thou concealing your pain!
You despise the nurse! "She wept for love and Anger, and tears ran down her cheeks down by the
scars of her tattoo.

"No," said Salammbo. "I love you! Be of good cheer! "

With a smile that was possible the grimace of an old monkeys, their employment Taanach again.
The lady had told her on behest Schahabarims to decorate it beautifully,
and so was Salambo cleaned after a barbaric taste, a mixture of unnatural
and naivety was.

About the thin claret shirt she pulled a dress, embroidered with bird feathers. A broad scaly gold
Belt encircled her waist, from which her blue baggy trousers with silver stars occupied herabwallten.
Then you put Taanach a second garment made of white China silk with green stripes at. On her
shoulders she fastened a square crimson cloth, the seam of sand grains
Aster was complaining.

Over all these clothes, they hung a black cloak with a long train.

Then she looked at Salammbo, and proud of her work, she could not help to explain:

"On the wedding day will not look like you beautiful!"

"On the wedding day," repeated Salammbo and lost in reverie, while
the elbow based on the chair in ivory.

Taanach before you put on a copper mirror, which was so high and wide that it is completely could see
it. Since rose Salammbo and pushed with a light hand movement a Locke back that hung down too low.

Her hair was powdered with gold dust, curled on his forehead and flowed
in long curls at the ends of beads hung down the back.

The light from the lamp, the makeup of their busy Cheeks, the gold
on their garments and the pallor of her skin.

Around the hips, wrists, Fingers and toes she wore such a wealth of gems that the mirror as
the sun's rays sprayed. Sun Salambo stood erect beside Taanach who leaned forward to look at
them and smiled at all the glitz.

Then they went back and forth to her the time she was still fast disappearing.

Since

there was a cock crow. Salammbo quickly put a veil on her long yellow Hair firmly wrapped a
towel around his neck, drove with his feet in blue leather shoes
and ordered Taanach:

"Go and look for among the myrtle trees, if
there is not a man with two horses waiting for!"

No sooner had Taanach back, so did Salambo down the galley stairs.

"Lady," she called out to the nurse.

Salammbo turned and put a finger to his mouth, a sign that they are
silent and should not move.

Taanach crept quietly to the ship's bills over the railing. In light of the moon noted them down
in the cypress avenue a giant shadow that diagonally to the left hinhuschte of Salammbo. That must
be a sign of death!

Taanach ran back into the room. There she threw herself long, tore her face with her Fingernails
plucked, her hair and let out a loud, shrill howl.

But then it occurred to me that one could hear them.

Since she was still sobbing and only very softly, pressed his head in his hands and forehead on the
floor.

XI

In the tent

The man who led Salambo rode with her in the direction of the necropolis,
the first uphill the lighthouse out, then through the elongated suburb
Moluya with their steep Streets.

The sky began to get light. Beams made of palm wood, which stood out from the walls, sometimes forced
her to bend over. Although the two horses went at a walk, gliding they often made. So they finally
arrived at the gate Tevester.

The heavy gates were on halfway. The two were riding through. Then shut the gate behind them.

First,
they went out for a while at the foot of the fortifications. Once on the level of the cisterns,
they took the direction of the Taenia, a narrow spit of golden sand, the gulf separated from
the lagoon and covered up by the wheel.

No man could be seen, neither in Carthage, nor on the sea or in the plane. The slate-gray Tide surged
softly, and the slight wind that was playing with the foam was hunting, white flakes seaward.
Despite all of their clothes and veils Salambo shivered in the cold morning air. The Exercise
and fresh air, they stunned. But then the sun rose. Soon it was burning her on the back of the
head and made her sleepy. The two horses trotted in the pass side by side ago. Their hoofs sank
noiselessly in the sand.

When they had the mountain of hot water behind it, the ground was firmer. Now they rode continue
at a brisk pace.

Although it was the time of plowing and sowing, the fields stretched as far as the eye could
see, but deserted it up like a desert.

In some places there were heaps of grain messy. Elsewhere were the seeds of over-ripe ears of corn.
On the bright horizon villages raised in loose, jagged black outlines from.

Now and then blackened remains of the wall stood at the edge of the road. The roofs of the huts
had collapsed, and inside we saw pot shards, bits of clothing, all sorts of household goods
and Broken items lying around and barely recognizable. Often crept wrapped in rags Being with
earthy face and flashing eyes from the debris out, but quickly ran return it or disappeared
in some hole.

Salammbo and her guide went nowhere maintenance.

Desolate plains followed each other. Large areas were highlighted as light yellow soil with coal dust
covered the whirled behind the hooves of the horses.

Sometimes they went to peaceable Studies over, where a brook ran between tall grasses, and if,
on the other side again rode up, pulled Salambo from wet leaves to join hands to cool them.
At the corner an oleander bushes made her horse once a large set in front of the corpse of a
man lying on the ground.

The slave immediately put them back on track on their saddle pads.

He was one of the priests, a man whom Schahabarim occasionally dangerous programs used.

For safety's sake, he was now on the way to walk between the horses
and drove alongside Salammbo the animals at the end of a looped leather
belt around his arm.

Sometimes he took a little on his chest hanging baskets beads made from wheat, dates, and
egg yolk were prepared and wrapped in lotus leaves. He handed Salambo underway, without a word
to say.

Around noon, crossed three with animal fur clad barbarians on their
way. appeared gradually still others.

They roamed in groups of ten, around twelve to twenty-five men.

Some drove a goat or a lame cow. Their heavy sticks were provided with iron spikes. Large knife flashed
under her shabby, dirty clothes. She opened her eyes amazed at, half menacing, half full. In
a pass called the everyday greeting other ambiguous words in jest, and Salambos companion replied
to each one in its Language.

Some, he said that he accompany a sick boy, who according to his
healing a distant temple pilgrims.

Meanwhile, it was evening. Remote dog barking was heard. They rode toward it.

In the twilight they saw a fence made of loosely piled stones around a questionable Building
around. A dog ran on the rocks. The slave drove him with a few stones.

They entered a large vault.

Midst of it sat a woman, warming himself at a brushwood fire, the smoke through holes withdrew
into the ceiling. Her white hair that reached down to her knees,
hid them to Half.

She did not answer with stupid face and muttered imprecations against the Carthaginians as against
the barbarians.

The runner rummaged around the right and left. Then he went back to the old woman and demanded something
to eat. She shook her head and murmured, staring into the coals:

"I was the hand ... The ten fingers are cut off ... The mouth does
not eat more ... "

The slave showed her a handful of gold pieces. The old woman threw herself upon it, but took immediately
their immovable position again.

As he put it the dagger that he wore in his belt, to the throat.

They immediately sent to trembling in to lift a large stone. Finally, she brought an amphora
of wine, in honey to bring canned fish, which were obtained from Hippo-Diarrhyt.

Salammbo rejected the unclean food by himself and fell asleep on the horse blankets that her
companion had spread in a corner of the room on the ground.

Before dawn, he woke her.

The dog was howling. The slave stole quietly approached him and struck
him with a single knife blow head off.

With his blood, he rubbed the nostrils of the horses to refresh them. The Old threw him out
of the corner after a curse. Salambo heard him and pressed the amulet she wore at her breast,
tight.

They continued their march.

From time to time they asked if they were not yet there soon.

The road rose and fell over down small hills.

You could hear nothing but the chirping of crickets.

The sun yellowed the desiccated Grass. The ground was criss-crossed by cracks, so that it looked
like from large plates together. Sometimes a snake crawled over. Eagle flew over them. The
slave ran on and on. Salammbo dreamed under her veil loosened him but despite the heat not,
for fear of their beautiful garments could be spotted.

At regular intervals, rose towers, built by the Carthaginians, to monitor the strains. The two
went inside to get a little rest in the shade, and then continued their journey.

The day before she had made a wide detour caution. But now they met anyone. The area was barren,
and the Barbarians were they so not roam.

Gradually, however, were again evident traces of devastation. Sometimes lay in the middle on
a Field, a mosaic, the only remnant of a vanished castle. Also they came to defoliated Olive
trees over, from a distance looked like the big bald thorn bushes. Once rode the two through
a town whose houses were burned to the ground. saw on the walls one
human skeletons, including those of camels and mules.

Halbzernagtes carrion blocked the streets.

The night fell down. The sky hung low and was covered with clouds.

Two full hours of riding it uphill in a westerly direction, they suddenly
saw met a number of small fires.

They burned in the bottom of a basin. Here and there gleamed golden in spots, which backwards and
forwards. These were the tanks of the Klinabaren the Punic camp. Then differentiate they more numerous
in wide circles were other lights, because the combined armies of the now Mercenaries took a
lot of space.

Salammbo wanted to ride straight. But the runners took her strong side. Soon they were riding along
the embankment towards that embraced the barbarian camp. At one point was a passage. The Slave
disappeared.

On the crown of the wall a guard walked up and down, a bow in his hand a lance over the shoulder.

Salammbo
rode up to him. The Barbarian knelt down, and a long arrow pierced the hem her coat. When she
then stood motionless, said the items to her and asked according to their desires.

"I will speak to Matho," she said.

"I am a defector from Carthage."

The soldier let out a whistle that was repeated from post to post.

Salammbo waited. Your horse was restless and turned in circles, snorting.

When Matho arrived, the moon just went behind Salammbo. But she offers her yellow veil embroidered
on the black flowers were, in the face and so many clothes to her body wore, she was unrecognizable.
From the height of the wall looking down the Libyans, the informal Figure who appeared to him in
the evening twilight as a ghost.

Finally she said to him:

"Lead me in your tent! I want it! "

A vague memory of him flashed through his head. He could feel his heart pounding. The imperative
Sound intimidated him.

"Follow me," he said.

The barrier fell. Salammbo was in the camp of the barbarians.

Loud noise and crowds filled it. Bright fires blazed in the suspended boilers. Your purple glow
brightly illuminated individual sites, while others in black Dark was. They screamed and cried.
Horses stood in droves in long straight rows, in the center of the camp. The tents were round
or square, of leather or canvas.

Between saw reed huts or simple holes in the sand as they scratch
the dogs.

The Soldiers drove fascinated, were with elbows propped on the ground or sent to wrapped in blankets,
to sleep on. To take away to seeing over them, had more horse Salambos
Jump times.

She remembered to have seen all these people already.
Only their beards were longer now, blacker their faces and their voices
harsh. Matho walked ahead of her and made her free with gestures of
the arm, which aired his red coat that way. Some of the soldiers kissed
his hands. Andre spoke to him in respectful attitude to receive commands.
He was now the only real general of the barbarians. Spendius, Autarit
and had Naravas lost his courage. He, however, had put so much courage
and perseverance in the day that he all obeyed.

Salammbo was riding
behind him all through the camp. Mathos tent was at the end, only
three hundred Steps away from Hamilcar entrenchments.

To the right,
she noticed a large pit, and it seemed as if close over its edge faces
appeared on the ground. They looked like severed heads, but her eyes
moved , and her half-parted lips escaped actions in the Punic language.

Two
Negroes with resin torches were on both sides of the tent door. Matho
struck quickly the screen back. Salammbo followed him.

It was an
oblong tent with a pole in the middle. A large lamp in the form of
a lotus flower lit it. It was filled to the brim with yellow oil.
Thickness Wergflocken swam on. In the darkness we saw flashing of
war. A naked sword leaned next to a shield on a stool. Flußpferdhaut
whip, cymbals, bells and necklaces were colorful by side on woven
baskets. Black bread crumbs covered a felt blanket. In a Corner on
a round stone slab were copper coins piled up carelessly, and through
the cracks in the canvas, the wind was blowing out of dust and the
smell of the elephants in, you eat and rattle their chains stopped.

"Who
are you?" Asked Matho.

Salammbo looked slowly round the room without
answering. Then turned their Eye on the background of the tent and
stayed in a sparkling blue object To stick hanging over a bed of palm
branches. Immediately, she walked toward it. A cry escaped her. Matho
stood behind her and stomped her foot.

"What brings you here? What
do you come? "

She pointed to the Zaimph and replied:

"To get there!"

With
the other hand she tore the veil from her face. Matho recoiled, affected
nearly shocked, stretched his arms to the rear.

She felt inspired
by divine power. Eye to eye she looked at him and demanded the Zaimph.
She asked him back with eloquent words arrogant.

Matho did not listen.
He looked at them. Their garments were in his eyes, one with her body.
The iridescent fabric was with him just as her shimmering skin something
very special that was only her own. Her eyes sparkled in the fire
of their diamonds, and the brilliance of her fingernails was the reflection
of the sparkling stones, resplendent with their fingers. The two clips
her tunic squeezed her breasts a little in the air and pressed the
two breasts closer together. Mathos thoughts were lost in the narrow
space between the two hills, find hanging on a string an emerald-studded
medallion. A little deeper, it peered under the purple gauze out.
As ear-rings she was wearing two small bowls of sapphire, each having
a hollow bore with fragrant liquid filled bead. Through tiny holes
in the beads leaked from time to time a drop of perfume wetted down
and her bare shoulders. Matho saw them fall one.

Irrepressible curiosity
seized him, and like a child who reaches for an unknown fruit Salammbo
he touched the tip of a trembling finger on top of the breast. The
cool meat gave way with elastic resistance.

This hardly noticeable
touch Matho attracted to the very marrow of his bones. A wild overgrowth
flooded his body and pushed him suddenly towards it. He would entwine,
they suck in, they may drink. His chest was panting, his teeth chattering.

He
grabbed at the wrists Salammbo and pulled her gently to himself. Then
he settled on a Harnisch next to the camp from palm branches down,
on which a lion's skin was spread. Salammbo remained upright. He held
it between his legs and looked at her from head to at the feet of.
Again and again, he said.

"How beautiful you are! How beautiful you
are! "

His eyes, which were steadily directed to their eyes did hurt
her, and this discomfort, this reluctance was it so painful that she
had to restrain himself, not to cry.

"Now, confound it all," said Moses, "I care more for our little Mara than a dozen of her; and
what have I been fooling all this time for?--now Mara will think I don't love her."

And, in fact, our young gentleman rather set his heart on the sensation he was going to make
when he got home. It is flattering, after all, to feel one's power over a susceptible nature;
and Moses, remembering how entirely and devotedly Mara had loved him all through childhood,
never doubted but he was the sole possessor of uncounted treasure in her heart, which he could
develop at his leisure and use as he pleased. He did not calculate for one force which had
grown up in the meanwhile between them,--and that was the power of womanhood. He did not know
the intensity of that kind of pride, which is the very life of the female nature, and which
is most vivid and vigorous in the most timid and retiring.

Our little Mara was tender, self-devoting, humble, and religious, but she was woman after all
to the tips of her fingers,--quick to feel slights, and determined with the intensest determination,
that no man should wrest from her one of those few humble rights and privileges, which Nature
allows to woman. Something swelled and trembled in her when she felt the confident pressure
of that bold arm around her waist,--like the instinct of a wild bird to fly. Something in the
deep, manly voice, the determined, self-confident air, aroused a vague feeling of defiance
and resistance in her which she could scarcely explain to herself. Was he to assume a right
to her in this way without even asking? When he did not come to tea nor long after, and Mrs.
Pennel and her grandfather wondered, she laughed, and said gayly,--

"Oh, he knows he'll have time enough to see me. Sally seems more like a stranger."

But when Moses came home after moonrise, determined to go and console Mara for his absence,
he was surprised to hear the sound of a rapid and pleasant conversation, in which a masculine
and feminine voice were intermingled in a lively duet. Coming a little nearer, he saw Mara
sitting knitting in the doorway, and a very good-looking young man seated on a stone at her
feet, with his straw hat flung on the ground, while he was looking up into her face, as young
men often do into pretty faces seen by moonlight. Mara rose and introduced Mr. Adams of Boston
to Mr. Moses Pennel.

Moses measured the young man with his eye as if he could have shot him with a good will. And
his temper was not at all bettered as he observed that he had the easy air of a man of fashion
and culture, and learned by a few moments of the succeeding conversation, that the acquaintance
had commenced during Mara's winter visit to Boston.

"I was staying a day or two at Mr. Sewell's," he said, carelessly, "and the night was so fine
I couldn't resist the temptation to row over."

It was now Moses's turn to listen to a conversation in which he could bear little part, it
being about persons and places and things unfamiliar to him; and though he could give no earthly
reason why the conversation was not the most proper in the world,--yet he found that it made
him angry.

In the pauses, Mara inquired, prettily, how he found the Kittridges, and reproved him playfully
for staying, in despite of his promise to come home. Moses answered with an effort to appear
easy and playful, that there was no reason, it appeared, to hurry on her account, since she
had been so pleasantly engaged.

"That is true," said Mara, quietly; "but then grandpapa and grandmamma expected you, and they
have gone to bed, as you know they always do after tea."

"They'll keep till morning, I suppose," said Moses, rather gruffly.

"Oh yes; but then as you had been gone two or three months, naturally they wanted to see a
little of you at first."

The stranger now joined in the conversation, and began talking with Moses about his experiences
in foreign parts, in a manner which showed a man of sense and breeding. Moses had a jealous
fear of people of breeding,--an apprehension lest they should look down on one whose life had
been laid out of the course of their conventional ideas; and therefore, though he had sufficient
ability and vigor of mind to acquit himself to advantage in this conversation, it gave him
all the while a secret uneasiness. After a few moments, he rose up moodily, and saying that
he was very much fatigued, he went into the house to retire.

Mr. Adams rose to go also, and Moses might have felt in a more Christian frame of mind, had
he listened to the last words of the conversation between him and Mara.

"Do you remain long in Harpswell?" she asked.

"That depends on circumstances," he replied. "If I do, may I be permitted to visit you?"

"As a friend--yes," said Mara; "I shall always be happy to see you."

"No more?"

"No more," replied Mara.

"I had hoped," he said, "that you would reconsider."

"It is impossible," said she; and soft voices can pronounce that word, impossible, in a very
fateful and decisive manner.

"Well, God bless you, then, Miss Lincoln," he said, and was gone.

Mara stood in the doorway and saw him loosen his boat from its moorings and float off in the
moonlight, with a long train of silver sparkles behind.

A moment after Moses was looking gloomily over her shoulder.

"Who is that puppy?" he said.

"He is not a puppy, but a very fine young man," said Mara.

"Well, that very fine young man, then?"

"I thought I told you. He is a Mr. Adams of Boston, and a distant connection of the Sewells.
I met him when I was visiting at Judge Sewell's in Boston."

"You seemed to be having a very pleasant time together?"

"We were," said Mara, quietly.

"It's a pity I came home as I did. I'm sorry I interrupted you," said Moses, with a sarcastic
laugh.

"You didn't interrupt us; he had been here almost two hours."

Now Mara saw plainly enough that Moses was displeased and hurt, and had it been in the days
of her fourteenth summer, she would have thrown her arms around his neck, and said, "Moses,
I don't care a fig for that man, and I love you better than all the world." But this the young
lady of eighteen would not do; so she wished him good-night very prettily, and pretended not
to see anything about it.

Mara was as near being a saint as human dust ever is; but--she was a woman saint; and therefore
may be excused for a little gentle vindictiveness. She was, in a merciful way, rather glad
that Moses had gone to bed dissatisfied, and rather glad that he did not know what she might
have told him--quite resolved that he should not know at present. Was he to know that she liked
nobody so much as him? Not he, unless he loved her more than all the world, and said so first.
Mara was resolved upon that. He might go where he liked--flirt with whom he liked--come back
as late as he pleased; never would she, by word or look, give him reason to think she cared.

CHAPTER XXIV

DESIRES AND DREAMS

Moses passed rather a restless and uneasy night on his return to the home-roof which had sheltered
his childhood. All his life past, and all his life expected, seemed to boil and seethe and
ferment in his thoughts, and to go round and round in never-ceasing circles before him.

Moses was par excellence proud, ambitious, and willful. These words, generally supposed to
describe positive vices of the mind, in fact are only the overaction of certain very valuable
portions of our nature, since one can conceive all three to raise a man immensely in the scale
of moral being, simply by being applied to right objects. He who is too proud even to admit
a mean thought--who is ambitious only of ideal excellence--who has an inflexible will only
in the pursuit of truth and righteousness--may be a saint and a hero.

But Moses was neither a saint nor a hero, but an undeveloped chaotic young man, whose pride
made him sensitive and restless; whose ambition was fixed on wealth and worldly success; whose
willfulness was for the most part a blind determination to compass his own points, with the
leave of Providence or without. There was no God in his estimate of life--and a sort of secret
unsuspected determination at the bottom of his heart that there should be none. He feared religion,
from a suspicion which he entertained that it might hamper some of his future schemes. He did
not wish to put himself under its rules, lest he might find them in some future time inconveniently
strict.

With such determinations and feelings, the Bible--necessarily an excessively uninteresting
book to him--he never read, and satisfied himself with determining in a general way that it
was not worth reading, and, as was the custom with many young men in America at that period,
announced himself as a skeptic, and seemed to value himself not a little on the distinction.
Pride in skepticism is a peculiar distinction of young men. It takes years and maturity to
make the discovery that the power of faith is nobler than the power of doubt; and that there
is a celestial wisdom in the ingenuous propensity to trust, which belongs to honest and noble
natures. Elderly skeptics generally regard their unbelief as a misfortune.

Not that Moses was, after all, without "the angel in him." He had a good deal of the susceptibility
to poetic feeling, the power of vague and dreamy aspiration, the longing after the good and
beautiful, which is God's witness in the soul. A noble sentiment in poetry, a fine scene in
nature, had power to bring tears in his great dark eyes, and he had, under the influence of
such things, brief inspired moments in which he vaguely longed to do, or be, something grand
or noble. But this, however, was something apart from the real purpose of his life,--a sort
of voice crying in the wilderness,--to which he gave little heed. Practically, he was determined
with all his might, to have a good time in this life, whatever another might be,--if there
were one; and that he would do it by the strength of his right arm. Wealth he saw to be the
lamp of Aladdin, which commanded all other things. And the pursuit of wealth was therefore
the first step in his programme.

As for plans of the heart and domestic life, Moses was one of that very common class who had
more desire to be loved than power of loving. His cravings and dreams were not for somebody
to be devoted to, but for somebody who should be devoted to him. And, like most people who
possess this characteristic, he mistook it for an affectionate disposition.

Now the chief treasure of his heart had always been his little sister Mara, chiefly from his
conviction that he was the one absorbing thought and love of her heart. He had never figured
life to himself otherwise than with Mara at his side, his unquestioning, devoted friend. Of
course he and his plans, his ways and wants, would always be in the future, as they always
had been, her sole thought. These sleeping partnerships in the interchange of affection, which
support one's heart with a basis of uncounted wealth, and leave one free to come and go, and
buy and sell, without exaction or interference, are a convenience certainly, and the loss of
them in any way is like the sudden breaking of a bank in which all one's deposits are laid.

It had never occurred to Moses how or in what capacity he should always stand banker to the
whole wealth of love that there was in Mara's heart, and what provision he should make on his
part for returning this incalculable debt. But the interview of this evening had raised a new
thought in his mind. Mara, as he saw that day, was no longer a little girl in a pink sun-bonnet.
She was a woman,--a little one, it is true, but every inch a woman,--and a woman invested with
a singular poetic charm of appearance, which, more than beauty, has the power of awakening
feeling in the other sex.

He felt in himself, in the experience of that one day, that there was something subtle and
veiled about her, which set the imagination at work; that the wistful, plaintive expression
of her dark eyes, and a thousand little shy and tremulous movements of her face, affected him
more than the most brilliant of Sally Kittridge's sprightly sallies. Yes, there would be people
falling in love with her fast enough, he thought even here, where she is as secluded as a pearl
in an oyster-shell,--it seems means were found to come after her,--and then all the love of
her heart, that priceless love, would go to another.

Mara would be absorbed in some one else, would love some one else, as he knew she could, with
heart and soul and mind and strength. When he thought of this, it affected him much as it would
if one were turned out of a warm, smiling apartment into a bleak December storm. What should
he do, if that treasure which he had taken most for granted in all his valuations of life should
suddenly be found to belong to another? Who was this fellow that seemed so free to visit her,
and what had passed between them? Was Mara in love with him, or going to be? There is no saying
how the consideration of this question enhanced in our hero's opinion both her beauty and all
her other good qualities.

Such a brave little heart! such a good, clear little head! and such a pretty hand and foot!
She was always so cheerful, so unselfish, so devoted! When had he ever seen her angry, except
when she had taken up some childish quarrel of his, and fought for him like a little Spartan?
Then she was pious, too. She was born religious, thought our hero, who, in common with many
men professing skepticism for their own particular part, set a great value on religion in that
unknown future person whom they are fond of designating in advance as "my wife." Yes, Moses
meant his wife should be pious, and pray for him, while he did as he pleased.

"Now there's that witch of a Sally Kittridge," he said to himself; "I wouldn't have such a
girl for a wife. Nothing to her but foam and frisk,--no heart more than a bobolink! But isn't
she amusing? By George! isn't she, though?"

"But," thought Moses, "it's time I settled this matter who is to be my wife. I won't marry
till I'm rich,--that's flat. My wife isn't to rub and grub. So at it I must go to raise the
wind. I wonder if old Sewell really does know anything about my parents. Miss Emily would have
it that there was some mystery that he had the key of; but I never could get any thing from
him. He always put me off in such a smooth way that I couldn't tell whether he did or he didn't.
But, now, supposing I have relatives, family connections, then who knows but what there may
be property coming to me? That's an idea worth looking after, surely."

There's no saying with what vividness ideas and images go through one's wakeful brain when
the midnight moon is making an exact shadow of your window-sash, with panes of light, on your
chamber-floor. How vividly we all have loved and hated and planned and hoped and feared and
desired and dreamed, as we tossed and turned to and fro upon such watchful, still nights. In
the stillness, the tide upon one side of the Island replied to the dash on the other side in
unbroken symphony, and Moses began to remember all the stories gossips had told him of how
he had floated ashore there, like a fragment of tropical seaweed borne landward by a great
gale. He positively wondered at himself that he had never thought of it more, and the more
he meditated, the more mysterious and inexplicable he felt. Then he had heard Miss Roxy once
speaking something about a bracelet, he was sure he had; but afterwards it was hushed up, and
no one seemed to know anything about it when he inquired. But in those days he was a boy,--he
was nobody,--now he was a young man. He could go to Mr. Sewell, and demand as his right a fair
answer to any questions he might ask. If he found, as was quite likely, that there was nothing
to be known, his mind would be thus far settled,--he should trust only to his own resources.

So far as the state of the young man's finances were concerned, it would be considered in those
simple times and regions an auspicious beginning of life. The sum intrusted to him by Captain
Kittridge had been more than doubled by the liberality of Zephaniah Pennel, and Moses had traded
upon it in foreign parts with a skill and energy that brought a very fair return, and gave
him, in the eyes of the shrewd, thrifty neighbors, the prestige of a young man who was marked
for success in the world.

He had already formed an advantageous arrangement with his grandfather and Captain Kittridge,
by which a ship was to be built, which he should command, and thus the old Saturday afternoon
dream of their childhood be fulfilled. As he thought of it, there arose in his mind a picture
of Mara, with her golden hair and plaintive eyes and little white hands, reigning as a fairy
queen in the captain's cabin, with a sort of wish to carry her off and make sure that no one
else ever should get her from him.

But these midnight dreams were all sobered down by the plain matter-of-fact beams of the morning
sun, and nothing remained of immediate definite purpose except the resolve, which came strongly
upon Moses as he looked across the blue band of Harpswell Bay, that he would go that morning
and have a talk with Mr. Sewell.

CHAPTER XXV

MISS EMILY

Miss Roxy Toothache was seated by the window of the little keeping-room where Miss Emily Sewell
sat on every-day occasions. Around her were the insignia of her power and sway. Her big tailor's
goose was heating between Miss Emily's bright brass fire-irons; her great pin-cushion was by
her side, bristling with pins of all sizes, and with broken needles thriftily made into pins
by heads of red sealing-wax, and with needles threaded with all varieties of cotton, silk,
and linen; her scissors hung martially by her side; her black bombazette work-apron was on;
and the expression of her iron features was that of deep responsibility, for she was making
the minister a new Sunday vest!

The good soul looks not a day older than when we left her, ten years ago. Like the gray, weather-beaten
rocks of her native shore, her strong features had an unchangeable identity beyond that of
anything fair and blooming. There was of course no chance for a gray streak in her stiff, uncompromising
mohair frisette, which still pushed up her cap-border bristlingly as of old, and the clear,
high winds and bracing atmosphere of that rough coast kept her in an admirable state of preservation.

Miss Emily had now and then a white hair among her soft, pretty brown ones, and looked a little
thinner; but the round, bright spot of bloom on each cheek was there just as of yore,--and
just as of yore she was thinking of her brother, and filling her little head with endless calculations
to keep him looking fresh and respectable, and his housekeeping comfortable and easy, on very
limited means. She was now officiously and anxiously attending on Miss Roxy, who was in the
midst of the responsible operation which should conduce greatly to this end.

"Does that twist work well?" she said, nervously; "because I believe I've got some other upstairs
in my India box."

Miss Roxy surveyed the article; bit a fragment off, as if she meant to taste it; threaded a
needle and made a few cabalistical stitches; and then pronounced, ex cathedrâ, that it would
do. Miss Emily gave a sigh of relief. After buttons and tapes and linings, and various other
items had been also discussed, the conversation began to flow into general channels.

"Did you know Moses Pennel had got home from Umbagog?" said Miss Roxy.

"Yes. Captain Kittridge told brother so this morning. I wonder he doesn't call over to see us."

"Your brother took a sight of interest in that boy," said Miss Roxy. "I was saying to Ruey,
this morning, that if Moses Pennel ever did turn out well, he ought to have a large share of
the credit."

"Brother always did feel a peculiar interest in him; it was such a strange providence that
seemed to cast in his lot among us," said Miss Emily.

"As sure as you live, there he is a-coming to the front door," said Miss Roxy.

"Dear me," said Miss Emily, "and here I have on this old faded chintz. Just so sure as one
puts on any old rag, and thinks nobody will come, company is sure to call."

"Law, I'm sure I shouldn't think of calling him company," said Miss Roxy.

A rap at the door put an end to this conversation, and very soon Miss Emily introduced our
hero into the little sitting-room, in the midst of a perfect stream of apologies relating to
her old dress and the littered condition of the sitting-room, for Miss Emily held to the doctrine
of those who consider any sign of human occupation and existence in a room as being disorder--however
reputable and respectable be the cause of it.

"Well, really," she said, after she had seated Moses by the fire, "how time does pass, to be
sure; it don't seem more than yesterday since you used to come with your Latin books, and now
here you are a grown man! I must run and tell Mr. Sewell. He will be so glad to see you."

Mr. Sewell soon appeared from his study in morning-gown and slippers, and seemed heartily responsive
to the proposition which Moses soon made to him to have some private conversation with him
in his study.

"I declare," said Miss Emily, as soon as the study-door had closed upon her brother and Moses,
"what a handsome young man he is! and what a beautiful way he has with him!--so deferential!
A great many young men nowadays seem to think nothing of their minister; but he comes to seek
advice. Very proper. It isn't every young man that appreciates the privilege of having elderly
friends. I declare, what a beautiful couple he and Mara Lincoln would make! Don't Providence
seem in a peculiar way to have designed them for each other?"

"I hope not," said Miss Roxy, with her grimmest expression.

"You don't! Why not?"

"I never liked him," said Miss Roxy, who had possessed herself of her great heavy goose, and
was now thumping and squeaking it emphatically on the press-board. "She's a thousand times
too good for Moses Pennel,"--thump. "I ne'er had no faith in him,"--thump. "He's dreffle unstiddy,"--thump.
"He's handsome, but he knows it,"--thump. "He won't never love nobody so much as he does himself,"--thump,
fortissimo con spirito.

"Well, really now, Miss Roxy, you mustn't always remember the sins of his youth. Boys must
sow their wild oats. He was unsteady for a while, but now everybody says he's doing well; and
as to his knowing he's handsome, and all that, I don't see as he does. See how polite and deferential
he was to us all, this morning; and he spoke so handsomely to you."

"I don't want none of his politeness," said Miss Roxy, inexorably; "and as to Mara Lincoln,
she might have better than him any day. Miss Badger was a-tellin' Captain Brown, Sunday noon,
that she was very much admired in Boston."

"So she was," said Miss Emily, bridling. "I never reveal secrets, or I might tell something,--but
there has been a young man,--but I promised not to speak of it, and I sha'n't."

"If you mean Mr. Adams," said Miss Roxy, "you needn't worry about keepin' that secret, 'cause
that ar was all talked over atween meetin's a-Sunday noon; for Mis' Kittridge she used to know
his aunt Jerushy, her that married Solomon Peters, and Mis' Captain Badger she says that he
has a very good property, and is a professor in the Old South church in Boston."

"Dear me," said Miss Emily, "how things do get about!"

"People will talk, there ain't no use trying to help it," said Miss Roxy; "but it's strongly
borne in on my mind that it ain't Adams, nor 't ain't Moses Pennel that's to marry her. I've
had peculiar exercises of mind about that ar child,--well I have;" and Miss Roxy pulled a large
spotted bandanna handkerchief out of her pocket, and blew her nose like a trumpet, and then
wiped the withered corners of her eyes, which were humid as some old Orr's Island rock wet
with sea-spray.

Miss Emily had a secret love of romancing. It was one of the recreations of her quiet, monotonous
life to build air-castles, which she furnished regardless of expense, and in which she set
up at housekeeping her various friends and acquaintances, and she had always been bent on weaving
a romance on the history of Mara and Moses Pennel. The good little body had done her best to
second Mr. Sewell's attempts toward the education of the children. It was little busy Miss
Emily who persuaded honest Zephaniah and Mary Pennel that talents such as Mara's ought to be
cultivated, and that ended in sending her to Miss Plucher's school in Portland. There her artistic
faculties were trained into creating funereal monuments out of chenille embroidery, fully equal
to Miss Emily's own; also to painting landscapes, in which the ground and all the trees were
one unvarying tint of blue-green; and also to creating flowers of a new and particular construction,
which, as Sally Kittridge remarked, were pretty, but did not look like anything in heaven or
earth. Mara had obediently and patiently done all these things; and solaced herself with copying
flowers and birds and landscapes as near as possible like nature, as a recreation from these
more dignified toils.

Miss Emily also had been the means of getting Mara invited to Boston, where she saw some really
polished society, and gained as much knowledge of the forms of artificial life as a nature
so wholly and strongly individual could obtain. So little Miss Emily regarded Mara as her godchild,
and was intent on finishing her up into a romance in real life, of which a handsome young man,
who had been washed ashore in a shipwreck, should be the hero.

What would she have said could she have heard the conversation that was passing in her brother's
study? Little could she dream that the mystery, about which she had timidly nibbled for years,
was now about to be unrolled;--but it was even so. But, upon what she does not see, good reader,
you and I, following invisibly on tiptoe, will make our observations.

When Moses was first ushered into Mr. Sewell's study, and found himself quite alone, with the
door shut, his heart beat so that he fancied the good man must hear it. He knew well what he
wanted and meant to say, but he found in himself all that shrinking and nervous repugnance
which always attends the proposing of any decisive question.

"I thought it proper," he began, "that I should call and express my sense of obligation to
you, sir, for all the kindness you showed me when a boy. I'm afraid in those thoughtless days
I did not seem to appreciate it so much as I do now."

As Moses said this, the color rose in his cheeks, and his fine eyes grew moist with a sort
of subdued feeling that made his face for the moment more than usually beautiful.

Mr. Sewell looked at him with an expression of peculiar interest, which seemed to have something
almost of pain in it, and answered with a degree of feeling more than he commonly showed,--

"It has been a pleasure to me to do anything I could for you, my young friend. I only wish
it could have been more. I congratulate you on your present prospects in life. You have perfect
health; you have energy and enterprise; you are courageous and self-reliant, and, I trust,
your habits are pure and virtuous. It only remains that you add to all this that fear of the
Lord which is the beginning of wisdom."

Moses bowed his head respectfully, and then sat silent a moment, as if he were looking through
some cloud where he vainly tried to discover objects.

Mr. Sewell continued, gravely,--

"You have the greatest reason to bless the kind Providence which has cast your lot in such
a family, in such a community. I have had some means in my youth of comparing other parts of
the country with our New England, and it is my opinion that a young man could not ask a better
introduction into life than the wholesome nurture of a Christian family in our favored land."

"Mr. Sewell," said Moses, raising his head, and suddenly looking him straight in the eyes,
"do you know anything of my family?"

The question was so point-blank and sudden, that for a moment Mr. Sewell made a sort of motion
as if he dodged a pistol-shot, and then his face assumed an expression of grave thoughtfulness,
while Moses drew a long breath. It was out,--the question had been asked.

"My son," replied Mr. Sewell, "it has always been my intention, when you had arrived at years
of discretion, to make you acquainted with all that I know or suspect in regard to your life.
I trust that when I tell you all I do know, you will see that I have acted for the best in
the matter. It has been my study and my prayer to do so."

Mr. Sewell then rose, and unlocking the cabinet, of which we have before made mention, in his
apartment, drew forth a very yellow and time-worn package of papers, which he untied. From
these he selected one which enveloped an old-fashioned miniature case.

"I am going to show you," he said, "what only you and my God know that I possess. I have not
looked at it now for ten years, but I have no doubt that it is the likeness of your mother."

Moses took it in his hand, and for a few moments there came a mist over his eyes,--he could
not see clearly. He walked to the window as if needing a clearer light.

What he saw was a painting of a beautiful young girl, with large melancholy eyes, and a clustering
abundance of black, curly hair. The face was of a beautiful, clear oval, with that warm brunette
tint in which the Italian painters delight. The black eyebrows were strongly and clearly defined,
and there was in the face an indescribable expression of childish innocence and shyness, mingled
with a kind of confiding frankness, that gave the picture the charm which sometimes fixes itself
in faces for which we involuntarily make a history. She was represented as simply attired in
a white muslin, made low in the neck, and the hands and arms were singularly beautiful. The
picture, as Moses looked at it, seemed to stand smiling at him with a childish grace,--a tender,
ignorant innocence which affected him deeply.

"My young friend," said Mr. Sewell, "I have written all that I know of the original of this
picture, and the reasons I have for thinking her your mother.

"You will find it all in this paper, which, if I had been providentially removed, was to have
been given you in your twenty-first year. You will see in the delicate nature of the narrative
that it could not properly have been imparted to you till you had arrived at years of understanding.
I trust when you know all that you will be satisfied with the course I have pursued. You will
read it at your leisure, and after reading I shall be happy to see you again."

Moses took the package, and after exchanging salutations with Mr. Sewell, hastily left the
house and sought his boat.

When one has suddenly come into possession of a letter or paper in which is known to be hidden
the solution of some long-pondered secret, of the decision of fate with regard to some long-cherished
desire, who has not been conscious of a sort of pain,--an unwillingness at once to know what
is therein? We turn the letter again and again, we lay it by and return to it, and defer from
moment to moment the opening of it. So Moses did not sit down in the first retired spot to
ponder the paper. He put it in the breast pocket of his coat, and then, taking up his oars,
rowed across the bay. He did not land at the house, but passed around the south point of the
Island, and rowed up the other side to seek a solitary retreat in the rocks, which had always
been a favorite with him in his early days.

The shores of the Island, as we have said, are a precipitous wall of rock, whose long, ribbed
ledges extend far out into the sea. At high tide these ledges are covered with the smooth blue
sea quite up to the precipitous shore. There was a place, however, where the rocky shore shelved
over, forming between two ledges a sort of grotto, whose smooth floor of shells and many-colored
pebbles was never wet by the rising tide. It had been the delight of Moses when a boy, to come
here and watch the gradual rise of the tide till the grotto was entirely cut off from all approach,
and then to look out in a sort of hermit-like security over the open ocean that stretched before
him. Many an hour he had sat there and dreamed of all the possible fortunes that might be found
for him when he should launch away into that blue smiling futurity.

It was now about half-tide, and Moses left his boat and made his way over the ledge of rocks
toward his retreat. They were all shaggy and slippery with yellow seaweeds, with here and there
among them wide crystal pools, where purple and lilac and green mosses unfolded their delicate
threads, and thousands of curious little shell-fish were tranquilly pursuing their quiet life.
The rocks where the pellucid water lay were in some places crusted with barnacles, which were
opening and shutting the little white scaly doors of their tiny houses, and drawing in and
out those delicate pink plumes which seem to be their nerves of enjoyment. Moses and Mara had
rambled and played here many hours of their childhood, amusing themselves with catching crabs
and young lobsters and various little fish for these rocky aquariums, and then studying at
their leisure their various ways. Now he had come hither a man, to learn the secret of his life.

Moses stretched himself down on the clean pebbly shore of the grotto, and drew forth Mr. Sewell's
letter.

CHAPTER XXVI

DOLORES

Mr. Sewell's letter ran as follows:--

MY DEAR YOUNG FRIEND,--It has always been my intention when you arrived at years of maturity
to acquaint you with some circumstances which have given me reason to conjecture your true
parentage, and to let you know what steps I have taken to satisfy my own mind in relation to
these conjectures. In order to do this, it will be necessary for me to go back to the earlier
years of my life, and give you the history of some incidents which are known to none of my
most intimate friends. I trust I may rely on your honor that they will ever remain as secrets
with you.

I graduated from Harvard University in ----. At the time I was suffering somewhat from an affection
of the lungs, which occasioned great alarm to my mother, many of whose family had died of consumption.
In order to allay her uneasiness, and also for the purpose of raising funds for the pursuit
of my professional studies, I accepted a position as tutor in the family of a wealthy gentleman
at St. Augustine, in Florida.

I cannot do justice to myself,--to the motives which actuated me in the events which took place
in this family, without speaking with the most undisguised freedom of the character of all
the parties with whom I was connected.

Don José Mendoza was a Spanish gentleman of large property, who had emigrated from the Spanish
West Indies to Florida, bringing with him an only daughter, who had been left an orphan by
the death of her mother at a very early age. He brought to this country a large number of slaves;--and
shortly after his arrival, married an American lady: a widow with three children. By her he
had four other children. And thus it will appear that the family was made up of such a variety
of elements as only the most judicious care could harmonize. But the character of the father
and mother was such that judicious care was a thing not to be expected of either.

Don José was extremely ignorant and proud, and had lived a life of the grossest dissipation.
Habits of absolute authority in the midst of a community of a very low moral standard had produced
in him all the worst vices of despots. He was cruel, overbearing, and dreadfully passionate.
His wife was a woman who had pretensions to beauty, and at times could make herself agreeable,
and even fascinating, but she was possessed of a temper quite as violent and ungoverned as his own.

Imagine now two classes of slaves, the one belonging to the mistress, and the other brought
into the country by the master, and each animated by a party spirit and jealousy;--imagine
children of different marriages, inheriting from their parents violent tempers and stubborn
wills, flattered and fawned on by slaves, and alternately petted or stormed at, now by this
parent and now by that, and you will have some idea of the task which I undertook in being
tutor in this family.

I was young and fearless in those days, as you are now, and the difficulties of the position,
instead of exciting apprehension, only awakened the spirit of enterprise and adventure.

The whole arrangements of the household, to me fresh from the simplicity and order of New England,
had a singular and wild sort of novelty which was attractive rather than otherwise. I was well
recommended in the family by an influential and wealthy gentleman of Boston, who represented
my family, as indeed it was, as among the oldest and most respectable of Boston, and spoke
in such terms of me, personally, as I should not have ventured to use in relation to myself.
When I arrived, I found that two or three tutors, who had endeavored to bear rule in this tempestuous
family, had thrown up the command after a short trial, and that the parents felt some little
apprehension of not being able to secure the services of another,--a circumstance which I did
not fail to improve in making my preliminary arrangements. I assumed an air of grave hauteur,
was very exacting in all my requisitions and stipulations, and would give no promise of doing
more than to give the situation a temporary trial. I put on an air of supreme indifference
as to my continuance, and acted in fact rather on the assumption that I should confer a favor
by remaining.

In this way I succeeded in obtaining at the outset a position of more respect and deference
than had been enjoyed by any of my predecessors. I had a fine apartment, a servant exclusively
devoted to me, a horse for riding, and saw myself treated among the servants as a person of
consideration and distinction.

Don José and his wife both had in fact a very strong desire to retain my services, when after
the trial of a week or two, it was found that I really could make their discordant and turbulent
children to some extent obedient and studious during certain portions of the day; and in fact
I soon acquired in the whole family that ascendancy which a well-bred person who respects himself,
and can keep his temper, must have over passionate and undisciplined natures.

I became the receptacle of the complaints of all, and a sort of confidential adviser. Don José
imparted to me with more frankness than good taste his chagrins with regard to his wife's indolence,
ill-temper, and bad management, and his wife in turn omitted no opportunity to vent complaints
against her husband for similar reasons. I endeavored, to the best of my ability, to act a
friendly part by both. It never was in my nature to see anything that needed to be done without
trying to do it, and it was impossible to work at all without becoming so interested in my
work as to do far more than I had agreed to do. I assisted Don José about many of his affairs;
brought his neglected accounts into order; and suggested from time to time arrangements which
relieved the difficulties which had been brought on by disorder and neglect. In fact, I became,
as he said, quite a necessary of life to him.

In regard to the children, I had a more difficult task. The children of Don José by his present
wife had been systematically stimulated by the negroes into a chronic habit of dislike and
jealousy toward her children by a former husband. On the slightest pretext, they were constantly
running to their father with complaints; and as the mother warmly espoused the cause of her
first children, criminations and recriminations often convulsed the whole family.

In ill-regulated families in that region, the care of the children is from the first in the
hands of half-barbarized negroes, whose power of moulding and assimilating childish minds is
peculiar, so that the teacher has to contend constantly with a savage element in the children
which seems to have been drawn in with the mother's milk. It is, in a modified way, something
the same result as if the child had formed its manners in Dahomey or on the coast of Guinea.
In the fierce quarrels which were carried on between the children of this family, I had frequent
occasion to observe this strange, savage element, which sometimes led to expressions and actions
which would seem incredible in civilized society.

The three children by Madame Mendoza's former husband were two girls of sixteen and eighteen
and a boy of fourteen. The four children of the second marriage consisted of three boys and
a daughter,--the eldest being not more than thirteen.

The natural capacity of all the children was good, although, from self-will and indolence,
they had grown up in a degree of ignorance which could not have been tolerated except in a
family living an isolated plantation life in the midst of barbarized dependents. Savage and
untaught and passionate as they were, the work of teaching them was not without its interest
to me. A power of control was with me a natural gift; and then that command of temper which
is the common attribute of well-trained persons in the Northern states, was something so singular
in this family as to invest its possessor with a certain awe; and my calm, energetic voice,
and determined manner, often acted as a charm on their stormy natures.

But there was one member of the family of whom I have not yet spoken,--and yet all this letter
is about her,--the daughter of Don José by his first marriage. Poor Dolores! poor child! God
grant she may have entered into his rest!

I need not describe her. You have seen her picture. And in the wild, rude, discordant family,
she always reminded me of the words, "a lily among thorns." She was in her nature unlike all
the rest, and, I may say, unlike any one I ever saw. She seemed to live a lonely kind of life
in this disorderly household, often marked out as the object of the spites and petty tyrannies
of both parties. She was regarded with bitter hatred and jealousy by Madame Mendoza, who was
sure to visit her with unsparing bitterness and cruelty after the occasional demonstrations
of fondness she received from her father. Her exquisite beauty and the gentle softness of her
manners made her such a contrast to her sisters as constantly excited their ill-will. Unlike
them all, she was fastidiously neat in her personal habits, and orderly in all the little arrangements
of life.

She seemed to me in this family to be like some shy, beautiful pet creature in the hands of
rude, unappreciated owners, hunted from quarter to quarter, and finding rest only by stealth.
Yet she seemed to have no perception of the harshness and cruelty with which she was treated.
She had grown up with it; it was the habit of her life to study peaceable methods of averting
or avoiding the various inconveniences and annoyances of her lot, and secure to herself a little
quiet.

It not unfrequently happened, amid the cabals and storms which shook the family, that one party
or the other took up and patronized Dolores for a while, more, as it would appear, out of hatred
for the other than any real love to her. At such times it was really affecting to see with
what warmth the poor child would receive these equivocal demonstrations of good-will--the nearest
approaches to affection which she had ever known--and the bitterness with which she would mourn
when they were capriciously withdrawn again. With a heart full of affection, she reminded me
of some delicate, climbing plant trying vainly to ascend the slippery side of an inhospitable
wall, and throwing its neglected tendrils around every weed for support.

Her only fast, unfailing friend was her old negro nurse, or Mammy, as the children called her.
This old creature, with the cunning and subtlety which had grown up from years of servitude,
watched and waited upon the interests of her little mistress, and contrived to carry many points
for her in the confused household. Her young mistress was her one thought and purpose in living.
She would have gone through fire and water to serve her; and this faithful, devoted heart,
blind and ignorant though it were, was the only unfailing refuge and solace of the poor hunted
child.

Dolores, of course, became my pupil among the rest. Like the others, she had suffered by the
neglect and interruptions in the education of the family, but she was intelligent and docile,
and learned with a surprising rapidity. It was not astonishing that she should soon have formed
an enthusiastic attachment to me, as I was the only intelligent, cultivated person she had
ever seen, and treated her with unvarying consideration and delicacy. The poor thing had been
so accustomed to barbarous words and manners that simple politeness and the usages of good
society seemed to her cause for the most boundless gratitude.

It is due to myself, in view of what follows, to say that I was from the first aware of the
very obvious danger which lay in my path in finding myself brought into close and daily relations
with a young creature so confiding, so attractive, and so singularly circumstanced. I knew
that it would be in the highest degree dishonorable to make the slightest advances toward gaining
from her that kind of affection which might interfere with her happiness in such future relations
as her father might arrange for her. According to the European fashion, I know that Dolores
was in her father's hands, to be disposed of for life according to his pleasure, as absolutely
as if she had been one of his slaves. I had every reason to think that his plans on this subject
were matured, and only waited for a little more teaching and training on my part, and her fuller
development in womanhood, to be announced to her.

In looking back over the past, therefore, I have not to reproach myself with any dishonest
and dishonorable breach of trust; for I was from the first upon my guard, and so much so that
even the jealousy my other scholars never accused me of partiality. I was not in the habit
of giving very warm praise, and was in my general management anxious rather to be just than
conciliatory, knowing that with the kind of spirits I had to deal with, firmness and justice
went farther than anything else. If I approved Dolores oftener than the rest, it was seen to
be because she never failed in a duty; if I spent more time with her lessons, it was because
her enthusiasm for study led her to learn longer ones and study more things; but I am sure
there was never a look or a word toward her that went beyond the proprieties of my position.

But yet I could not so well guard my heart. I was young and full of feeling. She was beautiful;
and more than that, there was something in her Spanish nature at once so warm and simple, so
artless and yet so unconsciously poetic, that her presence was a continual charm. How well
I remember her now,--all her little ways,--the movements of her pretty little hands,--the expression
of her changeful face as she recited to me,--the grave, rapt earnestness with which she listened
to all my instructions!

I had not been with her many weeks before I felt conscious that it was her presence that charmed
the whole house, and made the otherwise perplexing and distasteful details of my situation
agreeable. I had a dim perception that this growing passion was a dangerous thing for myself;
but was it a reason, I asked, why I should relinquish a position in which I felt that I was
useful, and when I could do for this lovely child what no one else could do? I call her a child,--she
always impressed me as such,--though she was in her sixteenth year and had the early womanly
development of Southern climates. She seemed to me like something frail and precious, needing
to be guarded and cared for; and when reason told me that I risked my own happiness in holding
my position, love argued on the other hand that I was her only friend, and that I should be
willing to risk something myself for the sake of protecting and shielding her. For there was
no doubt that my presence in the family was a restraint upon the passions which formerly vented
themselves so recklessly on her, and established a sort of order in which she found more peace
than she had ever known before.

For a long time in our intercourse I was in the habit of looking on myself as the only party
in danger. It did not occur to me that this heart, so beautiful and so lonely, might, in the
want of all natural and appropriate objects of attachment, fasten itself on me unsolicited,
from the mere necessity of loving. She seemed to me so much too beautiful, too perfect, to
belong to a lot in life like mine, that I could not suppose it possible this could occur without
the most blameworthy solicitation on my part; and it is the saddest and most affecting proof
to me how this poor child had been starved for sympathy and love, that she should have repaid
such cold services as mine with such an entire devotion. At first her feelings were expressed
openly toward me, with the dutiful air of a good child. She placed flowers on my desk in the
morning, and made quaint little nosegays in the Spanish fashion, which she gave me, and busied
her leisure with various ingenious little knick-knacks of fancy work, which she brought me.
I treated them all as the offerings of a child while with her, but I kept them sacredly in
my own room. To tell the truth, I have some of the poor little things now.

But after a while I could not help seeing how she loved me; and then I felt as if I ought to
go; but how could I? The pain to myself I could have borne; but how could I leave her to all
the misery of her bleak, ungenial position? She, poor thing, was so unconscious of what I knew,--for
I was made clear-sighted by love. I tried the more strictly to keep to the path I had marked
out for myself, but I fear I did not always do it; in fact, many things seemed to conspire
to throw us together. The sisters, who were sometimes invited out to visit on neighboring estates,
were glad enough to dispense with the presence and attractions of Dolores, and so she was frequently
left at home to study with me in their absence. As to Don José, although he always treated
me with civility, yet he had such an ingrained and deep-rooted idea of his own superiority
of position, that I suppose he would as soon have imagined the possibility of his daughter's
falling in love with one of his horses. I was a great convenience to him. I had a knack of
governing and carrying points in his family that it had always troubled and fatigued him to
endeavor to arrange,--and that was all. So that my intercourse with Dolores was as free and
unwatched, and gave me as many opportunities of enjoying her undisturbed society, as heart
could desire.

At last came the crisis, however. After breakfast one morning, Don José called Dolores into
his library and announced to her that he had concluded for her a treaty of marriage, and expected
her husband to arrive in a few days. He expected that this news would be received by her with
the glee with which a young girl hears of a new dress or of a ball-ticket, and was quite confounded
at the grave and mournful silence in which she received it. She said no word, made no opposition,
but went out from the room and shut herself up in her own apartment, and spent the day in tears
and sobs.

Don José, who had rather a greater regard for Dolores than for any creature living, and who
had confidently expected to give great delight by the news he had imparted, was quite confounded
by this turn of things. If there had been one word of either expostulation or argument, he
would have blazed and stormed in a fury of passion; but as it was, this broken-hearted submission,
though vexatious, was perplexing. He sent for me, and opened his mind, and begged me to talk
with Dolores and show her the advantages of the alliance, which the poor foolish child, he
said, did not seem to comprehend. The man was immensely rich, and had a splendid estate in
Cuba. It was a most desirable thing.

I ventured to inquire whether his person and manners were such as would be pleasing to a young
girl, and could gather only that he was a man of about fifty, who had been most of his life
in the military service, and was now desirous of making an establishment for the repose of
his latter days, at the head of which he would place a handsome and tractable woman, and do
well by her.

I represented that it would perhaps be safer to say no more on the subject until Dolores had
seen him, and to this he agreed. Madame Mendoza was very zealous in the affair, for the sake
of getting clear of the presence of Dolores in the family, and her sisters laughed at her for
her dejected appearance. They only wished, they said, that so much luck might happen to them.
For myself, I endeavored to take as little notice as possible of the affair, though what I
felt may be conjectured. I knew,--I was perfectly certain,--that Dolores loved me as I loved
her. I knew that she had one of those simple and unworldly natures which wealth and splendor
could not satisfy, and whose life would lie entirely in her affections. Sometimes I violently
debated with myself whether honor required me to sacrifice her happiness as well as my own,
and I felt the strongest temptation to ask her to be my wife and fly with me to the Northern
states, where I did not doubt my ability to make for her a humble and happy home.

But the sense of honor is often stronger than all reasoning, and I felt that such a course
would be the betrayal of a trust; and I determined at least to command myself till I should
see the character of the man who was destined to be her husband.

Meanwhile the whole manner of Dolores was changed. She maintained a stony, gloomy silence,
performed all her duties in a listless way, and occasionally, when I commented on anything
in her lessons or exercises, would break into little flashes of petulance, most strange and
unnatural in her. Sometimes I could feel that she was looking at me earnestly, but if I turned
my eyes toward her, hers were instantly averted; but there was in her eyes a peculiar expression
at times, such as I have seen in the eye of a hunted animal when it turned at bay,--a sort
of desperate resistance,--which, taken in connection with her fragile form and lovely face,
produced a mournful impression.

One morning I found Dolores sitting alone in the schoolroom, leaning her head on her arms.
She had on her wrist a bracelet of peculiar workmanship, which she always wore,--the bracelet
which was afterwards the means of confirming her identity. She sat thus some moments in silence,
and then she raised her head and began turning this bracelet round and round upon her arm,
while she looked fixedly before her. At last she spoke abruptly, and said,--

"Did I ever tell you that this was my mother's hair? It is my mother's hair,--and she was the
only one that ever loved me; except poor old Mammy, nobody else loves me,--nobody ever will."

"My dear Miss Dolores," I began.

"Don't call me dear," she said; "you don't care for me,--nobody does,--papa doesn't, and I
always loved him; everybody in the house wants to get rid of me, whether I like to go or not.
I have always tried to be good and do all you wanted, and I should think you might care for
me a little, but you don't."

"Dolores," I said, "I do care for you more than I do for any one in the world; I love you more
than my own soul."

These were the very words I never meant to say, but somehow they seemed to utter themselves
against my will. She looked at me for a moment as if she could not believe her hearing, and
then the blood flushed her face, and she laid her head down on her arms.

At this moment Madame Mendoza and the other girls came into the room in a clamor of admiration
about a diamond bracelet which had just arrived as a present from her future husband. It was
a splendid thing, and had for its clasp his miniature, surrounded by the largest brilliants.

The enthusiasm of the party even at this moment could not say anything in favor of the beauty
of this miniature, which, though painted on ivory, gave the impression of a coarse-featured
man, with a scar across one eye.

"No matter for the beauty," said one of the girls, "so long as it is set with such diamonds."

"Come, Dolores," said another, giving her the present, "pull off that old hair bracelet, and
try this on."

Dolores threw the diamond bracelet from her with a vehemence so unlike her gentle self as to
startle every one.

"I shall not take off my mother's bracelet for a gift from a man I never knew," she said. "I
hate diamonds. I wish those who like such things might have them."

"Was ever anything so odd?" said Madame Mendoza.

"Dolores always was odd," said another of the girls; "nobody ever could tell what she would like."

CHAPTER XXVII

HIDDEN THINGS

The next day Señor Don Guzman de Cardona arrived, and the whole house was in a commotion of
excitement. There was to be no school, and everything was bustle and confusion. I passed my
time in my own room in reflecting severely upon myself for the imprudent words by which I had
thrown one more difficulty in the way of this poor harassed child.

Dolores this day seemed perfectly passive in the hands of her mother and sisters, who appeared
disposed to show her great attention. She allowed them to array her in her most becoming dress,
and made no objection to anything except removing the bracelet from her arm. "Nobody's gifts
should take the place of her mother's," she said, and they were obliged to be content with
her wearing of the diamond bracelet on the other arm.

Don Guzman was a large, plethoric man, with coarse features and heavy gait. Besides the scar
I have spoken of, his face was adorned here and there with pimples, which were not set down
in the miniature. In the course of the first hour's study, I saw him to be a man of much the
same stamp as Dolores's father--sensual, tyrannical, passionate. He seemed in his own way to
be much struck with the beauty of his intended wife, and was not wanting in efforts to please
her. All that I could see in her was the settled, passive paleness of despair. She played,
sang, exhibited her embroidery and painting, at the command of Madame Mendoza, with the air
of an automaton; and Don Guzman remarked to her father on the passive obedience as a proper
and hopeful trait. Once only when he, in presenting her a flower, took the liberty of kissing
her cheek, did I observe the flashing of her eye and a movement of disgust and impatience,
that she seemed scarcely able to restrain.

The marriage was announced to take place the next week, and a holiday was declared through
the house. Nothing was talked of or discussed but the corbeille de mariage which the bridegroom
had brought--the dresses, laces, sets of jewels, and cashmere shawls. Dolores never had been
treated with such attention by the family in her life. She rose immeasurably in the eyes of
all as the future possessor of such wealth and such an establishment as awaited her. Madame
Mendoza had visions of future visits in Cuba rising before her mind, and overwhelmed her daughter-in-law
with flatteries and caresses, which she received in the same passive silence as she did everything
else.

For my own part, I tried to keep entirely by myself. I remained in my room reading, and took
my daily rides, accompanied by my servant--seeing Dolores only at mealtimes, when I scarcely
ventured to look at her. One night, however, as I was walking through a lonely part of the
garden, Dolores suddenly stepped out from the shrubbery and stood before me. It was bright
moonlight, by which her face and person were distinctly shown. How well I remember her as she
looked then! She was dressed in white muslin, as she was fond of being, but it had been torn
and disordered by the haste with which she had come through the shrubbery. Her face was fearfully
pale, and her great, dark eyes had an unnatural brightness. She laid hold on my arm.

"Look here," she said, "I saw you and came down to speak with you."

She panted and trembled, so that for some moments she could not speak another word. "I want
to ask you," she gasped, after a pause, "whether I heard you right? Did you say"--

"Yes, Dolores, you did. I did say what I had no right to say, like a dishonorable man."

"But is it true? Are you sure it is true?" she said, scarcely seeming to hear my words.

"God knows it is," said I despairingly.

"Then why don't you save me? Why do you let them sell me to this dreadful man? He don't love
me--he never will. Can't you take me away?"

"Dolores, I am a poor man. I cannot give you any of these splendors your father desires for you."

"Do you think I care for them? I love you more than all the world together. And if you do really
love me, why should we not be happy with each other?"

"Dolores," I said, with a last effort to keep calm, "I am much older than you, and know the
world, and ought not to take advantage of your simplicity. You have been so accustomed to abundant
wealth and all it can give, that you cannot form an idea of what the hardships and discomforts
of marrying a poor man would be. You are unused to having the least care, or making the least
exertion for yourself. All the world would say that I acted a very dishonorable part to take
you from a position which offers you wealth, splendor, and ease, to one of comparative hardship.
Perhaps some day you would think so yourself."

While I was speaking, Dolores turned me toward the moonlight, and fixed her great dark eyes
piercingly upon me, as if she wanted to read my soul. "Is that all?" she said; "is that the
only reason?"

"I do not understand you," said I.

She gave me such a desolate look, and answered in a tone of utter dejection, "Oh, I didn't
know, but perhaps you might not want me. All the rest are so glad to sell me to anybody that
will take me. But you really do love me, don't you?" she added, laying her hand on mine.

What answer I made I cannot say. I only know that every vestige of what is called reason and
common sense left me at that moment, and that there followed an hour of delirium in which I--we
both were very happy--we forgot everything but each other, and we arranged all our plans for
flight. There was fortunately a ship lying in the harbor of St. Augustine, the captain of which
was known to me. In course of a day or two passage was taken, and my effects transported on
board. Nobody seemed to suspect us. Everything went on quietly up to the day before that appointed
for sailing. I took my usual rides, and did everything as much as possible in my ordinary way,
to disarm suspicion, and none seemed to exist. The needed preparations went gayly forward.
On the day I mentioned, when I had ridden some distance from the house, a messenger came post-haste
after me. It was a boy who belonged specially to Dolores. He gave me a little hurried note.
I copy it:--

    "Papa has found all out, and it is dreadful. No one else knows, and
    he means to kill you when you come back. Do, if you love me, hurry
    and get on board the ship. I shall never get over it, if evil comes
    on you for my sake. I shall let them do what they please with me, if
    God will only save you. I will try to be good. Perhaps if I bear
    my trials well, he will let me die soon. That is all I ask. I love
    you, and always shall, to death and after.

    DOLORES."

There was the end of it all. I escaped on the ship. I read the marriage in the paper. Incidentally
I afterwards heard of her as living in Cuba, but I never saw her again till I saw her in her
coffin. Sorrow and death had changed her so much that at first the sight of her awakened only
a vague, painful remembrance. The sight of the hair bracelet which I had seen on her arm brought
all back, and I felt sure that my poor Dolores had strangely come to sleep her last sleep near me.

Immediately after I became satisfied who you were, I felt a painful degree of responsibility
for the knowledge. I wrote at once to a friend of mine in the neighborhood of St. Augustine,
to find out any particulars of the Mendoza family. I learned that its history had been like
that of many others in that region. Don José had died in a bilious fever, brought on by excessive
dissipation, and at his death the estate was found to be so incumbered that the whole was sold
at auction. The slaves were scattered hither and thither to different owners, and Madame Mendoza,
with her children and remains of fortune, had gone to live in New Orleans.

Of Dolores he had heard but once since her marriage. A friend had visited Don Guzman's estates
in Cuba. He was living in great splendor, but bore the character of a hard, cruel, tyrannical
master, and an overbearing man. His wife was spoken of as being in very delicate health,--avoiding
society and devoting herself to religion.

I would here take occasion to say that it was understood when I went into the family of Don
José, that I should not in any way interfere with the religious faith of the children, the
family being understood to belong to the Roman Catholic Church. There was so little like religion
of any kind in the family, that the idea of their belonging to any faith savored something
of the ludicrous. In the case of poor Dolores, however, it was different. The earnestness of
her nature would always have made any religious form a reality to her. In her case I was glad
to remember that the Romish Church, amid many corruptions, preserves all the essential beliefs
necessary for our salvation, and that many holy souls have gone to heaven through its doors.
I therefore was only careful to direct her principal attention to the more spiritual parts
of her own faith, and to dwell on the great themes which all Christian people hold in common.

Many of my persuasion would not have felt free to do this, but my liberty of conscience in
this respect was perfect. I have seen that if you break the cup out of which a soul has been
used to take the wine of the gospel, you often spill the very wine itself. And after all, these
forms are but shadows of which the substance is Christ.

I am free to say, therefore, that the thought that your poor mother was devoting herself earnestly
to religion, although after the forms of a church with which I differ, was to me a source of
great consolation, because I knew that in that way alone could a soul like hers find peace.

I have never rested from my efforts to obtain more information. A short time before the incident
which cast you upon our shore, I conversed with a sea-captain who had returned from Cuba. He
stated that there had been an attempt at insurrection among the slaves of Don Guzman, in which
a large part of the buildings and out-houses of the estate had been consumed by fire. On subsequent
inquiry I learned that Don Guzman had sold his estates and embarked for Boston with his wife
and family, and that nothing had subsequently been heard of him.

Thus, my young friend, I have told you all that I know of those singular circumstances which
have cast your lot on our shores. I do not expect at your time of life you will take the same
view of this event that I do. You may possibly--very probably will--consider it a loss not
to have been brought up as you might have been in the splendid establishment of Don Guzman,
and found yourself heir to wealth and pleasure without labor or exertion. Yet I am quite sure
in that case that your value as a human being would have been immeasurably less. I think I
have seen in you the elements of passions, which luxury and idleness and the too early possession
of irresponsible power, might have developed with fatal results. You have simply to reflect
whether you would rather be an energetic, intelligent, self-controlled man, capable of guiding
the affairs of life and of acquiring its prizes,--or to be the reverse of all this, with its
prizes bought for you by the wealth of parents. I hope mature reflection will teach you to
regard with gratitude that disposition of the All-Wise, which cast your lot as it has been cast.

Let me ask one thing in closing. I have written for you here many things most painful for me
to remember, because I wanted you to love and honor the memory of your mother. I wanted that
her memory should have something such a charm for you as it has for me. With me, her image
has always stood between me and all other women; but I have never even intimated to a living
being that such a passage in my history ever occurred,--no, not even to my sister, who is nearer
to me than any other earthly creature.

In some respects I am a singular person in my habits, and having once written this, you will
pardon me if I observe that it will never be agreeable to me to have the subject named between
us. Look upon me always as a friend, who would regard nothing as a hardship by which he might
serve the son of one so dear.

I have hesitated whether I ought to add one circumstance more. I think I will do so, trusting
to your good sense not to give it any undue weight.

I have never ceased making inquiries in Cuba, as I found opportunity, in regard to your father's
property, and late investigations have led me to the conclusion that he left a considerable
sum of money in the hands of a notary, whose address I have, which, if your identity could
be proved, would come in course of law to you. I have written an account of all the circumstances
which, in my view, identify you as the son of Don Guzman de Cardona, and had them properly
attested in legal form.

This, together with your mother's picture and the bracelet, I recommend you to take on your
next voyage, and to see what may result from the attempt. How considerable the sum may be which
will result from this, I cannot say, but as Don Guzman's fortune was very large, I am in hopes
it may prove something worth attention.

At any time you may wish to call, I will have all these things ready for you.

    I am, with warm regard,
            Your sincere friend,
                  THEOPHILUS SEWELL.

When Moses had finished reading this letter, he laid it down on the pebbles beside him, and,
leaning back against a rock, looked moodily out to sea. The tide had washed quite up to within
a short distance of his feet, completely isolating the little grotto where he sat from all
the surrounding scenery, and before him, passing and repassing on the blue bright solitude
of the sea, were silent ships, going on their wondrous pathless ways to unknown lands. The
letter had stirred all within him that was dreamy and poetic: he felt somehow like a leaf torn
from a romance, and blown strangely into the hollow of those rocks. Something too of ambition
and pride stirred within him. He had been born an heir of wealth and power, little as they
had done for the happiness of his poor mother; and when he thought he might have had these
two wild horses which have run away with so many young men, he felt, as young men all do, an
impetuous desire for their possession, and he thought as so many do, "Give them to me, and
I'll risk my character,--I'll risk my happiness."

The letter opened a future before him which was something to speculate upon, even though his
reason told him it was uncertain, and he lay there dreamily piling one air-castle on another,--unsubstantial
as the great islands of white cloud that sailed through the sky and dropped their shadows in
the blue sea.

It was late in the afternoon when he bethought him he must return home, and so climbing from
rock to rock he swung himself upward on to the island, and sought the brown cottage. As he
passed by the open window he caught a glimpse of Mara sewing. He walked softly up to look in
without her seeing him. She was sitting with the various articles of his wardrobe around her,
quietly and deftly mending his linen, singing soft snatches of an old psalm-tune.

She seemed to have resumed quite naturally that quiet care of him and his, which she had in
all the earlier years of their life. He noticed again her little hands,--they seemed a sort
of wonder to him. Why had he never seen, when a boy, how pretty they were? And she had such
dainty little ways of taking up and putting down things as she measured and clipped; it seemed
so pleasant to have her handling his things; it was as if a good fairy were touching them,
whose touch brought back peace. But then, he thought, by and by she will do all this for some
one else. The thought made him angry. He really felt abused in anticipation. She was doing
all this for him just in sisterly kindness, and likely as not thinking of somebody else whom
she loved better all the time. It is astonishing how cool and dignified this consideration
made our hero as he faced up to the window. He was, after all, in hopes she might blush, and
look agitated at seeing him suddenly; but she did not. The foolish boy did not know the quick
wits of a girl, and that all the while that he had supposed himself so sly, and been holding
his breath to observe, Mara had been perfectly cognizant of his presence, and had been schooling
herself to look as unconscious and natural as possible. So she did,--only saying,--

"Oh, Moses, is that you? Where have you been all day?"

"Oh, I went over to see Parson Sewell, and get my pastoral lecture, you know."

"And did you stay to dinner?"

"No; I came home and went rambling round the rocks, and got into our old cave, and never knew
how the time passed."

"Why, then you've had no dinner, poor boy," said Mara, rising suddenly. "Come in quick, you
must be fed, or you'll get dangerous and eat somebody."

"No, no, don't get anything," said Moses, "it's almost supper-time, and I'm not hungry."

And Moses threw himself into a chair, and began abstractedly snipping a piece of tape with
Mara's very best scissors.

"If you please, sir, don't demolish that; I was going to stay one of your collars with it,"
said Mara.

"Oh, hang it, I'm always in mischief among girls' things," said Moses, putting down the scissors
and picking up a bit of white wax, which with equal unconsciousness, he began kneading in his
hands, while he was dreaming over the strange contents of the morning's letter.

"I hope Mr. Sewell didn't say anything to make you look so very gloomy," said Mara.

"Mr. Sewell?" said Moses, starting; "no, he didn't; in fact, I had a pleasant call there; and
there was that confounded old sphinx of a Miss Roxy there. Why don't she die? She must be somewhere
near a hundred years old by this time."

"Never thought to ask her why she didn't die," said Mara; "but I presume she has the best of
reasons for living."

"Yes, that's so," said Moses; "every old toadstool, and burdock, and mullein lives and thrives
and lasts; no danger of their dying."

"You seem to be in a charitable frame of mind," said Mara.

"Confound it all! I hate this world. If I could have my own way now,--if I could have just
what I wanted, and do just as I please exactly, I might make a pretty good thing of it."

"And pray what would you have?" said Mara.

"Well, in the first place, riches."

"In the first place?"

"Yes, in the first place, I say; for money buys everything else."

"Well, supposing so," said Mara, "for argument's sake, what would you buy with it?"

"Position in society, respect, consideration,--and I'd have a splendid place, with everything
elegant. I have ideas enough, only give me the means. And then I'd have a wife, of course."

"And how much would you pay for her?" said Mara, looking quite cool.

"I'd buy her with all the rest,--a girl that wouldn't look at me as I am,--would take me for
all the rest, you know,--that's the way of the world."

"It is, is it?" said Mara. "I don't understand such matters much."

"Yes; it's the way with all you girls," said Moses; "it's the way you'll marry when you do."

"Don't be so fierce about it. I haven't done it yet," said Mara; "but now, really, I must go
and set the supper-table when I have put these things away,"--and Mara gathered an armful of
things together, and tripped singing upstairs, and arranged them in the drawer of Moses's room.
"Will his wife like to do all these little things for him as I do?" she thought. "It's natural
I should. I grew up with him, and love him, just as if he were my own brother,--he is all the
brother I ever had. I love him more than anything else in the world, and this wife he talks
about could do no more."

"She don't care a pin about me," thought Moses; "it's only a habit she has got, and her strict
notions of duty, that's all. She is housewifely in her instincts, and seizes all neglected
linen and garments as her lawful prey,--she would do it just the same for her grandfather;"
and Moses drummed moodily on the window-pane.

CHAPTER XXVIII

A COQUETTE

The timbers of the ship which was to carry the fortunes of our hero were laid by the side of
Middle Bay, and all these romantic shores could hardly present a lovelier scene. This beautiful
sheet of water separates Harpswell from a portion of Brunswick. Its shores are rocky and pine-crowned,
and display the most picturesque variety of outline. Eagle Island, Shelter Island, and one
or two smaller ones, lie on the glassy surface like soft clouds of green foliage pierced through
by the steel-blue tops of arrowy pine-trees.

There were a goodly number of shareholders in the projected vessel; some among the most substantial
men in the vicinity. Zephaniah Pennel had invested there quite a solid sum, as had also our
friend Captain Kittridge. Moses had placed therein the proceeds of his recent voyage, which
enabled him to buy a certain number of shares, and he secretly revolved in his mind whether
the sum of money left by his father might not enable him to buy the whole ship. Then a few
prosperous voyages, and his fortune was made!

He went into the business of building the new vessel with all the enthusiasm with which he
used, when a boy, to plan ships and mould anchors. Every day he was off at early dawn in his
working-clothes, and labored steadily among the men till evening. No matter how early he rose,
however, he always found that a good fairy had been before him and prepared his dinner, daintily
sometimes adding thereto a fragrant little bunch of flowers. But when his boat returned home
at evening, he no longer saw her as in the days of girlhood waiting far out on the farthest
point of rock for his return. Not that she did not watch for it and run out many times toward
sunset; but the moment she had made out that it was surely he, she would run back into the
house, and very likely find an errand in her own room, where she would be so deeply engaged
that it would be necessary for him to call her down before she could make her appearance. Then
she came smiling, chatty, always gracious, and ready to go or to come as he requested,--the
very cheerfulest of household fairies,--but yet for all that there was a cobweb invisible barrier
around her that for some reason or other he could not break over. It vexed and perplexed him,
and day after day he determined to whistle it down,--ride over it rough-shod,--and be as free
as he chose with this apparently soft, unresistant, airy being, who seemed so accessible. Why
shouldn't he kiss her when he chose, and sit with his arm around her waist, and draw her familiarly
upon his knee,--this little child-woman, who was as a sister to him? Why, to be sure? Had she
ever frowned or scolded as Sally Kittridge did when he attempted to pass the air-line that
divides man from womanhood? Not at all. She had neither blushed nor laughed, nor ran away.
If he kissed her, she took it with the most matter-of-fact composure; if he passed his arm
around her, she let it remain with unmoved calmness; and so somehow he did these things less
and less, and wondered why.

The fact is, our hero had begun an experiment with his little friend that we would never advise
a young man to try on one of these intense, quiet, soft-seeming women, whose whole life is
inward. He had determined to find out whether she loved him before he committed himself to
her; and the strength of a whole book of martyrs is in women to endure and to bear without
flinching before they will surrender the gate of this citadel of silence. Moreover, our hero
had begun his siege with precisely the worst weapons.

For on the night that he returned and found Mara conversing with a stranger, the suspicion
arose in his mind that somehow Mara might be particularly interested in him, and instead of
asking her, which anybody might consider the most feasible step in the case, he asked Sally
Kittridge.

Sally's inborn, inherent love of teasing was up in a moment. Did she know anything of that
Mr. Adams? Of course she did,--a young lawyer of one of the best Boston families,--a splendid
fellow; she wished any such luck might happen to her! Was Mara engaged to him? What would he
give to know? Why didn't he ask Mara? Did he expect her to reveal her friend's secrets? Well,
she shouldn't,--report said Mr. Adams was well-to-do in the world, and had expectations from
an uncle,--and didn't Moses think he was interesting in conversation? Everybody said what a
conquest it was for an Orr's Island girl, etc., etc. And Sally said the rest with many a malicious
toss and wink and sly twinkle of the dimples of her cheek, which might mean more or less, as
a young man of imaginative temperament was disposed to view it. Now this was all done in pure
simple love of teasing. We incline to think phrenologists have as yet been very incomplete
in their classification of faculties, or they would have appointed a separate organ for this
propensity of human nature. Certain persons, often the most kind-hearted in the world, and
who would not give pain in any serious matter, seem to have an insatiable appetite for those
small annoyances we commonly denominate teasing,--and Sally was one of this number.

She diverted herself infinitely in playing upon the excitability of Moses,--in awaking his
curiosity, and baffling it, and tormenting him with a whole phantasmagoria of suggestions and
assertions, which played along so near the line of probability, that one could never tell which
might be fancy and which might be fact.

Moses therefore pursued the line of tactics for such cases made and provided, and strove to
awaken jealousy in Mara by paying marked and violent attentions to Sally. He went there evening
after evening, leaving Mara to sit alone at home. He made secrets with her, and alluded to
them before Mara. He proposed calling his new vessel the Sally Kittridge; but whether all these
things made Mara jealous or not, he could never determine. Mara had no peculiar gift for acting,
except in this one point; but here all the vitality of nature rallied to her support, and enabled
her to preserve an air of the most unperceiving serenity. If she shed any tears when she spent
a long, lonesome evening, she was quite particular to be looking in a very placid frame when
Moses returned, and to give such an account of the books, or the work, or paintings which had
interested her, that Moses was sure to be vexed. Never were her inquiries for Sally more cordial,--never
did she seem inspired by a more ardent affection for her.

Whatever may have been the result of this state of things in regard to Mara, it is certain
that Moses succeeded in convincing the common fame of that district that he and Sally were
destined for each other, and the thing was regularly discussed at quilting frolics and tea-drinkings
around, much to Miss Emily's disgust and Aunt Roxy's grave satisfaction, who declared that
"Mara was altogether too good for Moses Pennel, but Sally Kittridge would make him stand round,"--by
which expression she was understood to intimate that Sally had in her the rudiments of the
same kind of domestic discipline which had operated so favorably in the case of Captain Kittridge.

These things, of course, had come to Mara's ears. She had overheard the discussions on Sunday
noons as the people between meetings sat over their doughnuts and cheese, and analyzed their
neighbors' affairs, and she seemed to smile at them all. Sally only laughed, and declared that
it was no such thing; that she would no more marry Moses Pennel, or any other fellow, than
she would put her head into the fire. What did she want of any of them? She knew too much to
get married,--that she did. She was going to have her liberty for one while yet to come, etc.,
etc.; but all these assertions were of course supposed to mean nothing but the usual declarations
in such cases. Mara among the rest thought it quite likely that this thing was yet to be.

So she struggled and tried to reason down a pain which constantly ached in her heart when she
thought of this. She ought to have foreseen that it must some time end in this way. Of course
she must have known that Moses would some time choose a wife; and how fortunate that, instead
of a stranger, he had chosen her most intimate friend. Sally was careless and thoughtless,
to be sure, but she had a good generous heart at the bottom, and she hoped she would love Moses
at least as well as she did, and then she would always live with them, and think of any little
things that Sally might forget.

After all, Sally was so much more capable and efficient a person than herself,--so much more
bustling and energetic, she would make altogether a better housekeeper, and doubtless a better
wife for Moses. But then it was so hard that he did not tell her about it. Was she not his
sister?--his confidant for all his childhood?--and why should he shut up his heart from her
now? But then she must guard herself from being jealous,--that would be mean and wicked. So
Mara, in her zeal of self-discipline, pushed on matters; invited Sally to tea to meet Moses;
and when she came, left them alone together while she busied herself in hospitable cares. She
sent Moses with errands and commissions to Sally, which he was sure to improve into protracted
visits; and in short, no young match-maker ever showed more good-will to forward the union
of two chosen friends than Mara showed to unite Moses and Sally.

So the flirtation went on all summer, like a ship under full sail, with prosperous breezes;
and Mara, in the many hours that her two best friends were together, tried heroically to persuade
herself that she was not unhappy. She said to herself constantly that she never had loved Moses
other than as a brother, and repeated and dwelt upon the fact to her own mind with a pertinacity
which might have led her to suspect the reality of the fact, had she had experience enough
to look closer. True, it was rather lonely, she said, but that she was used to,--she always
had been and always should be. Nobody would ever love her in return as she loved; which sentence
she did not analyze very closely, or she might have remembered Mr. Adams and one or two others,
who had professed more for her than she had found herself able to return. That general proposition
about nobody is commonly found, if sifted to the bottom, to have specific relation to somebody
whose name never appears in the record.

Nobody could have conjectured from Mara's calm, gentle cheerfulness of demeanor, that any sorrow
lay at the bottom of her heart; she would not have owned it to herself.

There are griefs which grow with years, which have no marked beginnings,--no especial dates;
they are not events, but slow perceptions of disappointment, which bear down on the heart with
a constant and equable pressure like the weight of the atmosphere, and these things are never
named or counted in words among life's sorrows; yet through them, as through an unsuspected
inward wound, life, energy, and vigor slowly bleed away, and the persons, never owning even
to themselves the weight of the pressure,--standing, to all appearance, fair and cheerful,
are still undermined with a secret wear of this inner current, and ready to fall with the first
external pressure.

There are persons often brought into near contact by the relations of life, and bound to each
other by a love so close, that they are perfectly indispensable to each other, who yet act
upon each other as a file upon a diamond, by a slow and gradual friction, the pain of which
is so equable, so constantly diffused through life, as scarcely ever at any time to force itself
upon the mind as a reality.

Such had been the history of the affection of Mara for Moses. It had been a deep, inward, concentrated
passion that had almost absorbed self-consciousness, and made her keenly alive to all the moody,
restless, passionate changes of his nature; it had brought with it that craving for sympathy
and return which such love ever will, and yet it was fixed upon a nature so different and so
uncomprehending that the action had for years been one of pain more than pleasure. Even now,
when she had him at home with her and busied herself with constant cares for him, there was
a sort of disturbing, unquiet element in the history of every day. The longing for him to come
home at night,--the wish that he would stay with her,--the uncertainty whether he would or
would not go and spend the evening with Sally,--the musing during the day over all that he
had done and said the day before, were a constant interior excitement. For Moses, besides being
in his moods quite variable and changeable, had also a good deal of the dramatic element in
him, and put on sundry appearances in the way of experiment.

He would feign to have quarreled with Sally, that he might detect whether Mara would betray
some gladness; but she only evinced concern and a desire to make up the difficulty. He would
discuss her character and her fitness to make a man happy in matrimony in the style that young
gentlemen use who think their happiness a point of great consequence in the creation; and Mara,
always cool, and firm, and sensible, would talk with him in the most maternal style possible,
and caution him against trifling with her affections. Then again he would be lavish in his
praise of Sally's beauty, vivacity, and energy, and Mara would join with the most apparently
unaffected delight. Sometimes he ventured, on the other side, to rally her on some future husband,
and predict the days when all the attentions which she was daily bestowing on him would be
for another; and here, as everywhere else, he found his little Sphinx perfectly inscrutable.
Instinct teaches the grass-bird, who hides her eggs under long meadow grass, to creep timidly
yards from the nest, and then fly up boldly in the wrong place; and a like instinct teaches
shy girls all kinds of unconscious stratagems when the one secret of their life is approached.
They may be as truthful in all other things as the strictest Puritan, but here they deceive
by an infallible necessity. And meanwhile, where was Sally Kittridge in all this matter? Was
her heart in the least touched by the black eyes and long lashes? Who can say? Had she a heart?
Well, Sally was a good girl. When one got sufficiently far down through the foam and froth
of the surface to find what was in the depths of her nature, there was abundance there of good
womanly feeling, generous and strong, if one could but get at it.

She was the best and brightest of daughters to the old Captain, whose accounts she kept, whose
clothes she mended, whose dinner she often dressed and carried to him, from loving choice;
and Mrs. Kittridge regarded her housewifely accomplishments with pride, though she never spoke
to her otherwise than in words of criticism and rebuke, as in her view an honest mother should
who means to keep a flourishing sprig of a daughter within limits of a proper humility.

But as for any sentiment or love toward any person of the other sex, Sally, as yet, had it
not. Her numerous admirers were only so many subjects for the exercise of her dear delight
of teasing, and Moses Pennel, the last and most considerable, differed from the rest only in
the fact that he was a match for her in this redoubtable art and science, and this made the
game she was playing with him altogether more stimulating than that she had carried on with
any other of her admirers. For Moses could sulk and storm for effect, and clear off as bright
as Harpswell Bay after a thunder-storm--for effect also. Moses could play jealous, and make
believe all those thousand-and-one shadowy nothings that coquettes, male and female, get up
to carry their points with; and so their quarrels and their makings-up were as manifold as
the sea-breezes that ruffled the ocean before the Captain's door.

There is but one danger in play of this kind, and that is, that deep down in the breast of
every slippery, frothy, elfish Undine sleeps the germ of an unawakened soul, which suddenly,
in the course of some such trafficking with the outward shows and seemings of affection, may
wake up and make of the teasing, tricksy elf a sad and earnest woman--a creature of loves and
self-denials and faithfulness unto death--in short, something altogether too good, too sacred
to be trifled with; and when a man enters the game protected by a previous attachment which
absorbs all his nature, and the woman awakes in all her depth and strength to feel the real
meaning of love and life, she finds that she has played with one stronger than she, at a terrible
disadvantage.

Is this mine lying dark and evil under the saucy little feet of our Sally? Well, we should
not of course be surprised some day to find it so.

CHAPTER XXIX

NIGHT TALKS

October is come, and among the black glooms of the pine forests flare out the scarlet branches
of the rock-maple, and the beech-groves are all arrayed in gold, through which the sunlight
streams in subdued richness. October is come with long, bright, hazy days, swathing in purple
mists the rainbow brightness of the forests, and blending the otherwise gaudy and flaunting
colors into wondrous harmonies of splendor. And Moses Pennel's ship is all built and ready,
waiting only a favorable day for her launching.

And just at this moment Moses is sauntering home from Captain Kittridge's in company with Sally,
for Mara has sent him to bring her to tea with them. Moses is in high spirits; everything has
succeeded to his wishes; and as the two walk along the high, bold, rocky shore, his eye glances
out to the open ocean, where the sun is setting, and the fresh wind blowing, and the white
sails flying, and already fancies himself a sea-king, commanding his own place, and going from
land to land.

"There hasn't been a more beautiful ship built here these twenty years," he says, in triumph.

"Oho, Mr. Conceit," said Sally, "that's only because it's yours now--your geese are all swans.
I wish you could have seen the Typhoon, that Ben Drummond sailed in--a real handsome fellow
he was. What a pity there aren't more like him!"

"I don't enter on the merits of Ben Drummond's beauty," said Moses; "but I don't believe the
Typhoon was one whit superior to our ship. Besides, Miss Sally, I thought you were going to
take it under your especial patronage, and let me honor it with your name."

"How absurd you always will be talking about that--why don't you call it after Mara?"

"After Mara?" said Moses. "I don't want to--it wouldn't be appropriate--one wants a different
kind of girl to name a ship after--something bold and bright and dashing!"

"Thank you, sir, but I prefer not to have my bold and dashing qualities immortalized in this
way," said Sally; "besides, sir, how do I know that you wouldn't run me on a rock the very
first thing? When I give my name to a ship, it must have an experienced commander," she added,
maliciously, for she knew that Moses was specially vulnerable on this point.

"As you please," said Moses, with heightened color. "Allow me to remark that he who shall ever
undertake to command the 'Sally Kittridge' will have need of all his experience--and then,
perhaps, not be able to know the ways of the craft."

"See him now," said Sally, with a malicious laugh; "we are getting wrathy, are we?"

"Not I," said Moses; "it would cost altogether too much exertion to get angry at every teasing
thing you choose to say, Miss Sally. By and by I shall be gone, and then won't your conscience
trouble you?"

"My conscience is all easy, so far as you are concerned, sir; your self-esteem is too deep-rooted
to suffer much from my poor little nips--they produce no more impression than a cat-bird pecking
at the cones of that spruce-tree yonder. Now don't you put your hand where your heart is supposed
to be--there's nobody at home there, you know. There's Mara coming to meet us;" and Sally bounded
forward to meet Mara with all those demonstrations of extreme delight which young girls are
fond of showering on each other.

"It's such a beautiful evening," said Mara, "and we are all in such good spirits about Moses's
ship, and I told him you must come down and hold counsel with us as to what was to be done
about the launching; and the name, you know, that is to be decided on--are you going to let
it be called after you?"

"Not I, indeed. I should always be reading in the papers of horrible accidents that had happened
to the 'Sally Kittridge.'"

"Sally has so set her heart on my being unlucky," said Moses, "that I believe if I make a prosperous
voyage, the disappointment would injure her health."

"She doesn't mean what she says," said Mara; "but I think there are some objections in a young
lady's name being given to a ship."

"Then I suppose, Mara," said Moses, "that you would not have yours either?"

"I would be glad to accommodate you in anything but that," said Mara, quietly; but she added,
"Why need the ship be named for anybody? A ship is such a beautiful, graceful thing, it should
have a fancy name."

"Well, suggest one," said Moses.

"Don't you remember," said Mara, "one Saturday afternoon, when you and Sally and I launched
your little ship down in the cove after you had come from your first voyage at the Banks?"

"I do," said Sally. "We called that the Ariel, Mara, after that old torn play you were so fond
of. That's a pretty name for a ship."

"Why not take that?" said Mara.

"I bow to the decree," said Moses. "The Ariel it shall be."

"Yes; and you remember," said Sally, "Mr. Moses here promised at that time that he would build
a ship, and take us two round the world with him."

Moses's eyes fell upon Mara as Sally said these words with a sort of sudden earnestness of
expression which struck her. He was really feeling very much about something, under all the
bantering disguise of his demeanor, she said to herself. Could it be that he felt unhappy about
his prospects with Sally? That careless liveliness of hers might wound him perhaps now, when
he felt that he was soon to leave her.

Mara was conscious herself of a deep undercurrent of sadness as the time approached for the
ship to sail that should carry Moses from her, and she could not but think some such feeling
must possess her mind. In vain she looked into Sally's great Spanish eyes for any signs of
a lurking softness or tenderness concealed under her sparkling vivacity. Sally's eyes were
admirable windows of exactly the right size and color for an earnest, tender spirit to look
out of, but just now there was nobody at the casement but a slippery elf peering out in tricksy
defiance.

When the three arrived at the house, tea was waiting on the table for them. Mara fancied that
Moses looked sad and preoccupied as they sat down to the tea-table, which Mrs. Pennel had set
forth festively, with the best china and the finest tablecloth and the choicest sweetmeats.
In fact, Moses did feel that sort of tumult and upheaving of the soul which a young man experiences
when the great crisis comes which is to plunge him into the struggles of manhood. It is a time
when he wants sympathy and is grated upon by uncomprehending merriment, and therefore his answers
to Sally grew brief and even harsh at times, and Mara sometimes perceived him looking at herself
with a singular fixedness of expression, though he withdrew his eyes whenever she turned hers
to look on him. Like many another little woman, she had fixed a theory about her friends, into
which she was steadily interweaving all the facts she saw. Sally must love Moses, because she
had known her from childhood as a good and affectionate girl, and it was impossible that she
could have been going on with Moses as she had for the last six months without loving him.
She must evidently have seen that he cared for her; and in how many ways had she shown that
she liked his society and him! But then evidently she did not understand him, and Mara felt
a little womanly self-pluming on the thought that she knew him so much better. She was resolved
that she would talk with Sally about it, and show her that she was disappointing Moses and
hurting his feelings. Yes, she said to herself, Sally has a kind heart, and her coquettish
desire to conceal from him the extent of her affection ought now to give way to the outspoken
tenderness of real love.

So Mara pressed Sally with the old-times request to stay and sleep with her; for these two,
the only young girls in so lonely a neighborhood, had no means of excitement or dissipation
beyond this occasional sleeping together--by which is meant, of course, lying awake all night
talking.

When they were alone together in their chamber, Sally let down her long black hair, and stood
with her back to Mara brushing it. Mara sat looking out of the window, where the moon was making
a wide sheet of silver-sparkling water. Everything was so quiet that the restless dash of the
tide could be plainly heard. Sally was rattling away with her usual gayety.

"And so the launching is to come off next Thursday. What shall you wear?"

"I'm sure I haven't thought," said Mara.

"Well, I shall try and finish my blue merino for the occasion. What fun it will be! I never
was on a ship when it was launched, and I think it will be something perfectly splendid!"

"But doesn't it sometimes seem sad to think that after all this Moses will leave us to be gone
so long?"

"What do I care?" said Sally, tossing back her long hair as she brushed it, and then stopping
to examine one of her eyelashes.

"Sally dear, you often speak in that way," said Mara, "but really and seriously, you do yourself
great injustice. You could not certainly have been going on as you have these six months past
with a man you did not care for."

"Well, I do care for him, 'sort o','" said Sally; "but is that any reason I should break my
heart for his going?--that's too much for any man."

"But, Sally, you must know that Moses loves you."

"I'm not so sure," said Sally, freakishly tossing her head and laughing.

"If he did not," said Mara, "why has he sought you so much, and taken every opportunity to
be with you? I'm sure I've been left here alone hour after hour, when my only comfort was that
it was because my two best friends loved each other, as I know they must some time love some
one better than they do me."

The most practiced self-control must fail some time, and Mara's voice faltered on these last
words, and she put her hands over her eyes. Sally turned quickly and looked at her, then giving
her hair a sudden fold round her shoulders, and running to her friend, she kneeled down on
the floor by her, and put her arms round her waist, and looked up into her face with an air
of more gravity than she commonly used.

"Now, Mara, what a wicked, inconsistent fool I have been! Did you feel lonesome?--did you care?
I ought to have seen that; but I'm selfish, I love admiration, and I love to have some one
to flatter me, and run after me; and so I've been going on and on in this silly way. But I
didn't know you cared--indeed, I didn't--you are such a deep little thing. Nobody can ever
tell what you feel. I never shall forgive myself, if you have been lonesome, for you are worth
five hundred times as much as I am. You really do love Moses. I don't."

"I do love him as a dear brother," said Mara.

"Dear fiddlestick," said Sally. "Love is love; and when a person loves all she can, it isn't
much use to talk so. I've been a wicked sinner, that I have. Love? Do you suppose I would bear
with Moses Pennel all his ins and outs and ups and downs, and be always putting him before
myself in everything, as you do? No, I couldn't; I haven't it in me; but you have. He's a sinner,
too, and deserves to get me for a wife. But, Mara, I have tormented him well--there's some
comfort in that."

"It's no comfort to me," said Mara. "I see his heart is set on you--the happiness of his life
depends on you--and that he is pained and hurt when you give him only cold, trifling words
when he needs real true love. It is a serious thing, dear, to have a strong man set his whole
heart on you. It will do him a great good or a great evil, and you ought not to make light of it."

"Oh, pshaw, Mara, you don't know these fellows; they are only playing games with us. If they
once catch us, they have no mercy; and for one here's a child that isn't going to be caught.
I can see plain enough that Moses Pennel has been trying to get me in love with him, but he
doesn't love me. No, he doesn't," said Sally, reflectively. "He only wants to make a conquest
of me, and I'm just the same. I want to make a conquest of him,--at least I have been wanting
to,--but now I see it's a false, wicked kind of way to do as we've been doing."

"And is it really possible, Sally, that you don't love him?" said Mara, her large, serious
eyes looking into Sally's. "What! be with him so much,--seem to like him so much,--look at
him as I have seen you do,--and not love him!"

"I can't help my eyes; they will look so," said Sally, hiding her face in Mara's lap with a
sort of coquettish consciousness. "I tell you I've been silly and wicked; but he's just the
same exactly."

"And you have worn his ring all summer?"

"Yes, and he has worn mine; and I have a lock of his hair, and he has a lock of mine; yet I
don't believe he cares for them a bit. Oh, his heart is safe enough. If he has any, it isn't
with me: that I know."

"But if you found it were, Sally? Suppose you found that, after all, you were the one love
and hope of his life; that all he was doing and thinking was for you; that he was laboring,
and toiling, and leaving home, so that he might some day offer you a heart and home, and be
your best friend for life? Perhaps he dares not tell you how he really does feel."

"It's no such thing! it's no such thing!" said Sally, lifting up her head, with her eyes full
of tears, which she dashed angrily away. "What am I crying for? I hate him. I'm glad he's going
away. Lately it has been such a trouble to me to have things go on so. I'm really getting to
dislike him. You are the one he ought to love. Perhaps all this time you are the one he does
love," said Sally, with a sudden energy, as if a new thought had dawned in her mind.

"Oh, no; he does not even love me as he once did, when we were children," said Mara. "He is
so shut up in himself, so reserved, I know nothing about what passes in his heart."

"No more does anybody," said Sally. "Moses Pennel isn't one that says and does things straightforward
because he feels so; but he says and does them to see what you will do. That's his way. Nobody
knows why he has been going on with me as he has. He has had his own reasons, doubtless, as
I have had mine."

"He has admired you very much, Sally," said Mara, "and praised you to me very warmly. He thinks
you are so handsome. I could tell you ever so many things he has said about you. He knows as
I do that you are a more enterprising, practical sort of body than I am, too. Everybody thinks
you are engaged. I have heard it spoken of everywhere."

"Everybody is mistaken, then, as usual," said Sally. "Perhaps Aunt Roxy was in the right of
it when she said that Moses would never be in love with anybody but himself."

"Aunt Roxy has always been prejudiced and unjust to Moses," said Mara, her cheeks flushing.
"She never liked him from a child, and she never can be made to see anything good in him. I
know that he has a deep heart,--a nature that craves affection and sympathy; and it is only
because he is so sensitive that he is so reserved and conceals his feelings so much. He has
a noble, kind heart, and I believe he truly loves you, Sally; it must be so."

Sally rose from the floor and went on arranging her hair without speaking. Something seemed
to disturb her mind. She bit her lip, and threw down the brush and comb violently. In the clear
depths of the little square of looking-glass a face looked into hers, whose eyes were perturbed
as if with the shadows of some coming inward storm; the black brows were knit, and the lips
quivered. She drew a long breath and burst out into a loud laugh.

"What are you laughing at now?" said Mara, who stood in her white night-dress by the window,
with her hair falling in golden waves about her face.

"Oh, because these fellows are so funny," said Sally; "it's such fun to see their actions.
Come now," she added, turning to Mara, "don't look so grave and sanctified. It's better to
laugh than cry about things, any time. It's a great deal better to be made hard-hearted like
me, and not care for anybody, than to be like you, for instance. The idea of any one's being
in love is the drollest thing to me. I haven't the least idea how it feels. I wonder if I ever
shall be in love!"

"It will come to you in its time, Sally."

"Oh, yes,--I suppose like the chicken-pox or the whooping cough," said Sally; "one of the things
to be gone through with, and rather disagreeable while it lasts,--so I hope to put it off as
long as possible."

"Well, come," said Mara, "we must not sit up all night."

After the two girls were nestled into bed and the light out, instead of the brisk chatter there
fell a great silence between them. The full round moon cast the reflection of the window on
the white bed, and the ever restless moan of the sea became more audible in the fixed stillness.
The two faces, both young and fair, yet so different in their expression, lay each still on
its pillow,--their wide-open eyes gleaming out in the shadow like mystical gems. Each was breathing
softly, as if afraid of disturbing the other. At last Sally gave an impatient movement.

"How lonesome the sea sounds in the night," she said. "I wish it would ever be still."

"I like to hear it," said Mara. "When I was in Boston, for a while I thought I could not sleep,
I used to miss it so much."

There was another silence, which lasted so long that each girl thought the other asleep, and
moved softly, but at a restless movement from Sally, Mara spoke again.

"Sally,--you asleep?"

"No,--I thought you were."

"I wanted to ask you," said Mara, "did Moses ever say anything to you about me?--you know I
told you how much he said about you."

"Yes; he asked me once if you were engaged to Mr. Adams."

"And what did you tell him?" said Mara, with increasing interest.

"Well, I only plagued him. I sometimes made him think you were, and sometimes that you were
not; and then again, that there was a deep mystery in hand. But I praised and glorified Mr.
Adams, and told him what a splendid match it would be, and put on any little bits of embroidery
here and there that I could lay hands on. I used to make him sulky and gloomy for a whole evening
sometimes. In that way it was one of the best weapons I had."

"Sally, what does make you love to tease people so?" said Mara.

"Why, you know the hymn says,--

    'Let dogs delight to bark and bite,
      For God hath made them so;
    Let bears and lions growl and fight,
      For 'tis their nature too.'

That's all the account I can give of it."

"But," said Mara, "I never can rest easy a moment when I see I am making a person uncomfortable."

"Well, I don't tease anybody but the men. I don't tease father or mother or you,--but men are
fair game; they are such thumby, blundering creatures, and we can confuse them so."

"Take care, Sally, it's playing with edge tools; you may lose your heart some day in this kind
of game."

"Never you fear," said Sally; "but aren't you sleepy?--let's go to sleep."

Both girls turned their faces resolutely in opposite directions, and remained for an hour with
their large eyes looking out into the moonlit chamber, like the fixed stars over Harpswell
Bay. At last sleep drew softly down the fringy curtains.

CHAPTER XXX

THE LAUNCH OF THE ARIEL

In the plain, simple regions we are describing,--where the sea is the great avenue of active
life, and the pine forests are the great source of wealth,--ship-building is an engrossing
interest, and there is no fête that calls forth the community like the launching of a vessel.
And no wonder; for what is there belonging to this workaday world of ours that has such a never-failing
fund of poetry and grace as a ship? A ship is a beauty and a mystery wherever we see it: its
white wings touch the regions of the unknown and the imaginative; they seem to us full of the
odors of quaint, strange, foreign shores, where life, we fondly dream, moves in brighter currents
than the muddy, tranquil tides of every day.

Who that sees one bound outward, with her white breasts swelling and heaving, as if with a
reaching expectancy, does not feel his own heart swell with a longing impulse to go with her
to the far-off shores? Even at dingy, crowded wharves, amid the stir and tumult of great cities,
the coming in of a ship is an event that never can lose its interest. But on these romantic
shores of Maine, where all is so wild and still, and the blue sea lies embraced in the arms
of dark, solitary forests, the sudden incoming of a ship from a distant voyage is a sort of
romance. Who that has stood by the blue waters of Middle Bay, engirdled as it is by soft slopes
of green farming land, interchanged here and there with heavy billows of forest-trees, or rocky,
pine-crowned promontories, has not felt that sense of seclusion and solitude which is so delightful?
And then what a wonder! There comes a ship from China, drifting in like a white cloud,--the
gallant creature! how the waters hiss and foam before her! with what a great free, generous
plash she throws out her anchors, as if she said a cheerful "Well done!" to some glorious work
accomplished! The very life and spirit of strange romantic lands come with her; suggestions
of sandal-wood and spice breathe through the pine-woods; she is an oriental queen, with hands
full of mystical gifts; "all her garments smell of myrrh and cassia, out of the ivory palaces,
whereby they have made her glad." No wonder men have loved ships like birds, and that there
have been found brave, rough hearts that in fatal wrecks chose rather to go down with their
ocean love than to leave her in the last throes of her death-agony.

A ship-building, a ship-sailing community has an unconscious poetry ever underlying its existence.
Exotic ideas from foreign lands relieve the trite monotony of life; the ship-owner lives in
communion with the whole world, and is less likely to fall into the petty commonplaces that
infest the routine of inland life.

Never arose a clearer or lovelier October morning than that which was to start the Ariel on
her watery pilgrimage. Moses had risen while the stars were yet twinkling over their own images
in Middle Bay, to go down and see that everything was right; and in all the houses that we
know in the vicinity, everybody woke with the one thought of being ready to go to the launching.

Mrs. Pennel and Mara were also up by starlight, busy over the provisions for the ample cold
collation that was to be spread in a barn adjoining the scene,--the materials for which they
were packing into baskets covered with nice clean linen cloths, ready for the little sail-boat
which lay within a stone's throw of the door in the brightening dawn, her white sails looking
rosy in the advancing light.

It had been agreed that the Pennels and the Kittridges should cross together in this boat with
their contributions of good cheer.

The Kittridges, too, had been astir with the dawn, intent on their quota of the festive preparations,
in which Dame Kittridge's housewifely reputation was involved,--for it had been a disputed
point in the neighborhood whether she or Mrs. Pennel made the best doughnuts; and of course,
with this fact before her mind, her efforts in this line had been all but superhuman.

The Captain skipped in and out in high feather,--occasionally pinching Sally's cheek, and asking
if she were going as captain or mate upon the vessel after it was launched, for which he got
in return a fillip of his sleeve or a sly twitch of his coat-tails, for Sally and her old father
were on romping terms with each other from early childhood, a thing which drew frequent lectures
from the always exhorting Mrs. Kittridge.

"Such levity!" she said, as she saw Sally in full chase after his retreating figure, in order
to be revenged for some sly allusions he had whispered in her ear.

"Sally Kittridge! Sally Kittridge!" she called, "come back this minute. What are you about?
I should think your father was old enough to know better."

"Lawful sakes, Polly, it kind o' renews one's youth to get a new ship done," said the Captain,
skipping in at another door. "Sort o' puts me in mind o' that I went out cap'en in when I was
jist beginning to court you, as somebody else is courtin' our Sally here."

"Now, father," said Sally, threateningly, "what did I tell you?"

"It's really lemancholy," said the Captain, "to think how it does distress gals to talk to
'em 'bout the fellers, when they ain't thinkin' o' nothin' else all the time. They can't even
laugh without sayin' he-he-he!"

"Now, father, you know I've told you five hundred times that I don't care a cent for Moses
Pennel,--that he's a hateful creature," said Sally, looking very red and determined.

"Yes, yes," said the Captain, "I take that ar's the reason you've ben a-wearin' the ring he
gin you and them ribbins you've got on your neck this blessed minute, and why you've giggled
off to singin'-school, and Lord knows where with him all summer,--that ar's clear now."

"But, father," said Sally, getting redder and more earnest, "I don't care for him really, and
I've told him so. I keep telling him so, and he will run after me."

"Haw! haw!" laughed the Captain; "he will, will he? Jist so, Sally; that ar's jist the way
your ma there talked to me, and it kind o' 'couraged me along. I knew that gals always has
to be read back'ard jist like the writin' in the Barbary States."

"Captain Kittridge, will you stop such ridiculous talk?" said his helpmeet; "and jist carry
this 'ere basket of cold chicken down to the landin' agin the Pennels come round in the boat;
and you must step spry, for there's two more baskets a-comin'."

The Captain shouldered the basket and walked toward the sea with it, and Sally retired to her
own little room to hold a farewell consultation with her mirror before she went.

You will perhaps think from the conversation that you heard the other night, that Sally now
will cease all thought of coquettish allurement in her acquaintance with Moses, and cause him
to see by an immediate and marked change her entire indifference. Probably, as she stands thoughtfully
before her mirror, she is meditating on the propriety of laying aside the ribbons he gave her--perhaps
she will alter that arrangement of her hair which is one that he himself particularly dictated
as most becoming to the character of her face. She opens a little drawer, which looks like
a flower garden, all full of little knots of pink and blue and red, and various fancies of
the toilet, and looks into it reflectively. She looses the ribbon from her hair and chooses
another,--but Moses gave her that too, and said, she remembers, that when she wore that "he
should know she had been thinking of him." Sally is Sally yet--as full of sly dashes of coquetry
as a tulip is of streaks.

"There's no reason I should make myself look like a fright because I don't care for him," she
says; "besides, after all that he has said, he ought to say more,--he ought at least to give
me a chance to say no,--he shall, too," said the gypsy, winking at the bright, elfish face
in the glass.

"Sally Kittridge, Sally Kittridge," called her mother, "how long will you stay prinkin'?--come
down this minute."

"Law now, mother," said the Captain, "gals must prink afore such times; it's as natural as
for hens to dress their feathers afore a thunder-storm."

Sally at last appeared, all in a flutter of ribbons and scarfs, whose bright, high colors assorted
well with the ultramarine blue of her dress, and the vivid pomegranate hue of her cheeks. The
boat with its white sails flapping was balancing and courtesying up and down on the waters,
and in the stern sat Mara; her shining white straw hat trimmed with blue ribbons set off her
golden hair and pink shell complexion. The dark, even penciling of her eyebrows, and the beauty
of the brow above, the brown translucent clearness of her thoughtful eyes, made her face striking
even with its extreme delicacy of tone. She was unusually animated and excited, and her cheeks
had a rich bloom of that pure deep rose-color which flushes up in fair complexions under excitement,
and her eyes had a kind of intense expression, for which they had always been remarkable. All
the deep secluded yearning of repressed nature was looking out of them, giving that pathos
which every one has felt at times in the silence of eyes.

"Now bless that ar gal," said the Captain, when he saw her. "Our Sally here's handsome, but
she's got the real New-Jerusalem look, she has--like them in the Revelations that wears the
fine linen, clean and white."

"Bless you, Captain Kittridge! don't be a-makin' a fool of yourself about no girl at your time
o' life," said Mrs. Kittridge, speaking under her breath in a nipping, energetic tone, for
they were coming too near the boat to speak very loud.

"Good mornin', Mis' Pennel; we've got a good day, and a mercy it is so. 'Member when we launched
the North Star, that it rained guns all the mornin', and the water got into the baskets when
we was a-fetchin' the things over, and made a sight o' pester."

"Yes," said Mrs. Pennel, with an air of placid satisfaction, "everything seems to be going
right about this vessel."

Mrs. Kittridge and Sally were soon accommodated with seats, and Zephaniah Pennel and the Captain
began trimming sail. The day was one of those perfect gems of days which are to be found only
in the jewel-casket of October, a day neither hot nor cold, with an air so clear that every
distant pine-tree top stood out in vivid separateness, and every woody point and rocky island
seemed cut out in crystalline clearness against the sky. There was so brisk a breeze that the
boat slanted quite to the water's edge on one side, and Mara leaned over and pensively drew
her little pearly hand through the water, and thought of the days when she and Moses took this
sail together--she in her pink sun-bonnet, and he in his round straw hat, with a tin dinner-pail
between them; and now, to-day the ship of her childish dreams was to be launched. That launching
was something she regarded almost with superstitious awe. The ship, built on one element, but
designed to have its life in another, seemed an image of the soul, framed and fashioned with
many a weary hammer-stroke in this life, but finding its true element only when it sails out
into the ocean of eternity. Such was her thought as she looked down the clear, translucent
depths; but would it have been of any use to try to utter it to anybody?--to Sally Kittridge,
for example, who sat all in a cheerful rustle of bright ribbons beside her, and who would have
shown her white teeth all round at such a suggestion, and said, "Now, Mara, who but you would
have thought of that?"

But there are souls sent into this world who seem to have always mysterious affinities for
the invisible and the unknown--who see the face of everything beautiful through a thin veil
of mystery and sadness. The Germans call this yearning of spirit home-sickness--the dim remembrances
of a spirit once affiliated to some higher sphere, of whose lost brightness all things fair
are the vague reminders. As Mara looked pensively into the water, it seemed to her that every
incident of life came up out of its depths to meet her. Her own face reflected in a wavering
image, sometimes shaped itself to her gaze in the likeness of the pale lady of her childhood,
who seemed to look up at her from the waters with dark, mysterious eyes of tender longing.
Once or twice this dreamy effect grew so vivid that she shivered, and drawing herself up from
the water, tried to take an interest in a very minute account which Mrs. Kittridge was giving
of the way to make corn-fritters which should taste exactly like oysters. The closing direction
about the quantity of mace Mrs. Kittridge felt was too sacred for common ears, and therefore
whispered it into Mrs. Pennel's bonnet with a knowing nod and a look from her black spectacles
which would not have been bad for a priestess of Dodona in giving out an oracle. In this secret
direction about the mace lay the whole mystery of corn-oysters; and who can say what consequences
might ensue from casting it in an unguarded manner before the world?

And now the boat which has rounded Harpswell Point is skimming across to the head of Middle
Bay, where the new ship can distinctly be discerned standing upon her ways, while moving clusters
of people were walking up and down her decks or lining the shore in the vicinity. All sorts
of gossiping and neighborly chit-chat is being interchanged in the little world assembling there.

"I hain't seen the Pennels nor the Kittridges yet," said Aunt Ruey, whose little roly-poly
figure was made illustrious in her best cinnamon-colored dyed silk. "There's Moses Pennel a-goin'
up that ar ladder. Dear me, what a beautiful feller he is! it's a pity he ain't a-goin' to
marry Mara Lincoln, after all."

"Ruey, do hush up," said Miss Roxy, frowning sternly down from under the shadow of a preternatural
black straw bonnet, trimmed with huge bows of black ribbon, which head-piece sat above her
curls like a helmet. "Don't be a-gettin' sentimental, Ruey, whatever else you get--and talkin'
like Miss Emily Sewell about match-makin'; I can't stand it; it rises on my stomach, such talk
does. As to that ar Moses Pennel, folks ain't so certain as they thinks what he'll do. Sally
Kittridge may think he's a-goin' to have her, because he's been a-foolin' round with her all
summer, and Sally Kittridge may jist find she's mistaken, that's all."

"Yes," said Miss Ruey, "I 'member when I was a girl my old aunt, Jerushy Hopkins, used to be
always a-dwellin' on this Scripture, and I've been havin' it brought up to me this mornin':
'There are three things which are too wonderful for me, yea, four, which I know not: the way
of an eagle in the air, the way of a serpent upon a rock, the way of a ship in the sea, and
the way of a man with a maid.' She used to say it as a kind o' caution to me when she used
to think Abram Peters was bein' attentive to me. I've often reflected what a massy it was that
ar never come to nothin', for he's a poor drunken critter now."

"Well, for my part," said Miss Roxy, fixing her eyes critically on the boat that was just at
the landing, "I should say the ways of a maid with a man was full as particular as any of the
rest of 'em. Do look at Sally Kittridge now. There's Tom Hiers a-helpin' her out of the boat;
and did you see the look she gin Moses Pennel as she went by him? Wal', Moses has got Mara
on his arm anyhow; there's a gal worth six-and-twenty of the other. Do see them ribbins and
scarfs, and the furbelows, and the way that ar Sally Kittridge handles her eyes. She's one
that one feller ain't never enough for."

Mara's heart beat fast when the boat touched the shore, and Moses and one or two other young
men came to assist in their landing. Never had he looked more beautiful than at this moment,
when flushed with excitement and satisfaction he stood on the shore, his straw hat off, and
his black curls blowing in the sea-breeze. He looked at Sally with a look of frank admiration
as she stood there dropping her long black lashes over her bright cheeks, and coquettishly
looking out from under them, but she stepped forward with a little energy of movement, and
took the offered hand of Tom Hiers, who was gazing at her too with undisguised rapture, and
Moses, stepping into the boat, helped Mrs. Pennel on shore, and then took Mara on his arm,
looking her over as he did so with a glance far less assured and direct than he had given to Sally.

"You won't be afraid to climb the ladders, Mara?" said he.

"Not if you help me," she said.

Sally and Tom Hiers had already walked on toward the vessel, she ostentatiously chatting and
laughing with him. Moses's brow clouded a little, and Mara noticed it. Moses thought he did
not care for Sally; he knew that the little hand that was now lying on his arm was the one
he wanted, and yet he felt vexed when he saw Sally walk off triumphantly with another. It was
the dog-in-the-manger feeling which possesses coquettes of both sexes. Sally, on all former
occasions, had shown a marked preference for him, and professed supreme indifference to Tom Hiers.

"It's all well enough," he said to himself, and he helped Mara up the ladders with the greatest
deference and tenderness. "This little woman is worth ten such girls as Sally, if one only
could get her heart. Here we are on our ship, Mara," he said, as he lifted her over the last
barrier and set her down on the deck. "Look over there, do you see Eagle Island? Did you dream
when we used to go over there and spend the day that you ever would be on my ship, as you are
to-day? You won't be afraid, will you, when the ship starts?"

"I am too much of a sea-girl to fear on anything that sails in water," said Mara with enthusiasm.
"What a splendid ship! how nicely it all looks!"

"Come, let me take you over it," said Moses, "and show you my cabin."

Meanwhile the graceful little vessel was the subject of various comments by the crowd of spectators
below, and the clatter of workmen's hammers busy in some of the last preparations could yet
be heard like a shower of hail-stones under her.

"I hope the ways are well greased," said old Captain Eldritch. "'Member how the John Peters
stuck in her ways for want of their being greased?"

"Don't you remember the Grand Turk, that keeled over five minutes after she was launched?"
said the quavering voice of Miss Ruey; "there was jist such a company of thoughtless young
creatures aboard as there is now."

"Well, there wasn't nobody hurt," said Captain Kittridge. "If Mis' Kittridge would let me,
I'd be glad to go aboard this 'ere, and be launched with 'em."

"I tell the Cap'n he's too old to be climbin' round and mixin' with young folks' frolics,"
said Mrs. Kittridge.

"I suppose, Cap'n Pennel, you've seen that the ways is all right," said Captain Broad, returning
to the old subject.

"Oh yes, it's all done as well as hands can do it," said Zephaniah. "Moses has been here since
starlight this morning, and Moses has pretty good faculty about such matters."

"Where's Mr. Sewell and Miss Emily?" said Miss Ruey. "Oh, there they are over on that pile
of rocks; they get a pretty fair view there."

Mr. Sewell and Miss Emily were sitting under a cedar-tree, with two or three others, on a projecting
point whence they could have a clear view of the launching. They were so near that they could
distinguish clearly the figures on deck, and see Moses standing with his hat off, the wind
blowing his curls back, talking earnestly to the golden-haired little woman on his arm.

"It is a launch into life for him," said Mr. Sewell, with suppressed feeling.

"Yes, and he has Mara on his arm," said Miss Emily; "that's as it should be. Who is that that
Sally Kittridge is flirting with now? Oh, Tom Hiers. Well! he's good enough for her. Why don't
she take him?" said Miss Emily, in her zeal jogging her brother's elbow.

"I'm sure, Emily, I don't know," said Mr. Sewell dryly; "perhaps he won't be taken."

"Don't you think Moses looks handsome?" said Miss Emily. "I declare there is something quite
romantic and Spanish about him; don't you think so, Theophilus?"

"Yes, I think so," said her brother, quietly looking, externally, the meekest and most matter-of-fact
of persons, but deep within him a voice sighed, "Poor Dolores, be comforted, your boy is beautiful
and prosperous!"

"There, there!" said Miss Emily, "I believe she is starting."

All eyes of the crowd were now fixed on the ship; the sound of hammers stopped; the workmen
were seen flying in every direction to gain good positions to see her go,--that sight so often
seen on those shores, yet to which use cannot dull the most insensible.

First came a slight, almost imperceptible, movement, then a swift exultant rush, a dash into
the hissing water, and the air was rent with hurrahs as the beautiful ship went floating far
out on the blue seas, where her fairer life was henceforth to be.

Mara was leaning on Moses's arm at the instant the ship began to move, but in the moment of
the last dizzy rush she felt his arm go tightly round her, holding her so close that she could
hear the beating of his heart.

"Hurrah!" he said, letting go his hold the moment the ship floated free, and swinging his hat
in answer to the hats, scarfs, and handkerchiefs, which fluttered from the crowd on the shore.
His eyes sparkled with a proud light as he stretched himself upward, raising his head and throwing
back his shoulders with a triumphant movement. He looked like a young sea-king just crowned;
and the fact is the less wonderful, therefore, that Mara felt her heart throb as she looked
at him, and that a treacherous throb of the same nature shook the breezy ribbons fluttering
over the careless heart of Sally. A handsome young sea-captain, treading the deck of his own
vessel, is, in his time and place, a prince.

Moses looked haughtily across at Sally, and then passed a half-laughing defiant flash of eyes
between them. He looked at Mara, who could certainly not have known what was in her eyes at
the moment,--an expression that made his heart give a great throb, and wonder if he saw aright:
but it was gone a moment after, as all gathered around in a knot exchanging congratulations
on the fortunate way in which the affair had gone off. Then came the launching in boats to
go back to the collation on shore, where were high merry-makings for the space of one or two
hours: and thus was fulfilled the first part of Moses Pennel's Saturday afternoon prediction.

CHAPTER XXXI

GREEK MEETS GREEK

Moses was now within a day or two of the time of his sailing, and yet the distance between
him and Mara seemed greater than ever. It is astonishing, when two people are once started
on a wrong understanding with each other, how near they may live, how intimate they may be,
how many things they may have in common, how many words they may speak, how closely they may
seem to simulate intimacy, confidence, friendship, while yet there lies a gulf between them
that neither crosses,--a reserve that neither explores.

Like most shy girls, Mara became more shy the more really she understood the nature of her
own feelings. The conversation with Sally had opened her eyes to the secret of her own heart,
and she had a guilty feeling as if what she had discovered must be discovered by every one
else. Yes, it was clear she loved Moses in a way that made him, she thought, more necessary
to her happiness than she could ever be to his,--in a way that made it impossible to think
of him as wholly and for life devoted to another, without a constant inner conflict. In vain
had been all her little stratagems practiced upon herself the whole summer long, to prove to
herself that she was glad that the choice had fallen upon Sally. She saw clearly enough now
that she was not glad,--that there was no woman or girl living, however dear, who could come
for life between him and her, without casting on her heart the shuddering sorrow of a dim eclipse.

But now the truth was plain to herself, her whole force was directed toward the keeping of
her secret. "I may suffer," she thought, "but I will have strength not to be silly and weak.
Nobody shall know,--nobody shall dream it,--and in the long, long time that he is away, I shall
have strength given me to overcome."

So Mara put on her most cheerful and matter-of-fact kind of face, and plunged into the making
of shirts and knitting of stockings, and talked of the coming voyage with such a total absence
of any concern, that Moses began to think, after all, there could be no depth to her feelings,
or that the deeper ones were all absorbed by some one else.

"You really seem to enjoy the prospect of my going away," said he to her, one morning, as she
was energetically busying herself with her preparations.

"Well, of course; you know your career must begin. You must make your fortune; and it is pleasant
to think how favorably everything is shaping for you."

"One likes, however, to be a little regretted," said Moses, in a tone of pique.

"A little regretted!" Mara's heart beat at these words, but her hypocrisy was well practiced.
She put down the rebellious throb, and assuming a look of open, sisterly friendliness, said,
quite naturally, "Why, we shall all miss you, of course."

"Of course," said Moses,--"one would be glad to be missed some other way than of course."

"Oh, as to that, make yourself easy," said Mara. "We shall all be dull enough when you are
gone to content the most exacting." Still she spoke, not stopping her stitching, and raising
her soft brown eyes with a frank, open look into Moses's--no tremor, not even of an eyelid.

"You men must have everything," she continued, gayly, "the enterprise, the adventure, the novelty,
the pleasure of feeling that you are something, and can do something in the world; and besides
all this, you want the satisfaction of knowing that we women are following in chains behind
your triumphal car!"

There was a dash of bitterness in this, which was a rare ingredient in Mara's conversation.

Moses took the word. "And you women sit easy at home, sewing and singing, and forming romantic
pictures of our life as like its homely reality as romances generally are to reality; and while
we are off in the hard struggle for position and the means of life, you hold your hearts ready
for the first rich man that offers a fortune ready made."

"The first!" said Mara. "Oh, you naughty! sometimes we try two or three."

"Well, then, I suppose this is from one of them," said Moses, flapping down a letter from Boston,
directed in a masculine hand, which he had got at the post-office that morning.

Now Mara knew that this letter was nothing in particular, but she was taken by surprise, and
her skin was delicate as peach-blossom, and so she could not help a sudden blush, which rose
even to her golden hair, vexed as she was to feel it coming. She put the letter quietly in
her pocket, and for a moment seemed too discomposed to answer.

"You do well to keep your own counsel," said Moses. "No friend so near as one's self, is a
good maxim. One does not expect young girls to learn it so early, but it seems they do."

"And why shouldn't they as well as young men?" said Mara. "Confidence begets confidence, they say."

"I have no ambition to play confidant," said Moses; "although as one who stands to you in the
relation of older brother and guardian, and just on the verge of a long voyage, I might be
supposed anxious to know."

"And I have no ambition to be confidant," said Mara, all her spirit sparkling in her eyes;
"although when one stands to you in the relation of an only sister, I might be supposed perhaps
to feel some interest to be in your confidence."

The words "older brother" and "only sister" grated on the ears of both the combatants as a
decisive sentence. Mara never looked so pretty in her life, for the whole force of her being
was awake, glowing and watchful, to guard passage, door, and window of her soul, that no treacherous
hint might escape. Had he not just reminded her that he was only an older brother? and what
would he think if he knew the truth?--and Moses thought the words only sister unequivocal declaration
of how the matter stood in her view, and so he rose, and saying, "I won't detain you longer
from your letter," took his hat and went out.

"Are you going down to Sally's?" said Mara, coming to the door and looking out after him.

"Yes."

"Well, ask her to come home with you and spend the evening. I have ever so many things to tell
her."

"I will," said Moses, as he lounged away.

"The thing is clear enough," said Moses to himself. "Why should I make a fool of myself any
further? What possesses us men always to set our hearts precisely on what isn't to be had?
There's Sally Kittridge likes me; I can see that plainly enough, for all her mincing; and why
couldn't I have had the sense to fall in love with her? She will make a splendid, showy woman.
She has talent and tact enough to rise to any position I may rise to, let me rise as high as
I will. She will always have skill and energy in the conduct of life; and when all the froth
and foam of youth has subsided, she will make a noble woman. Why, then, do I cling to this
fancy? I feel that this little flossy cloud, this delicate, quiet little puff of thistledown,
on which I have set my heart, is the only thing for me, and that without her my life will always
be incomplete. I remember all our early life. It was she who sought me, and ran after me, and
where has all that love gone to? Gone to this fellow; that's plain enough. When a girl like
her is so comfortably cool and easy, it's because her heart is off somewhere else."

This conversation took place about four o'clock in as fine an October afternoon as you could
wish to see. The sun, sloping westward, turned to gold the thousand blue scales of the ever-heaving
sea, and soft, pine-scented winds were breathing everywhere through the forests, waving the
long, swaying films of heavy moss, and twinkling the leaves of the silver birches that fluttered
through the leafy gloom. The moon, already in the sky, gave promise of a fine moonlight night;
and the wild and lonely stillness of the island, and the thoughts of leaving in a few days,
all conspired to foster the restless excitement in our hero's mind into a kind of romantic unrest.

Now, in some such states, a man disappointed in one woman will turn to another, because, in
a certain way and measure, her presence stills the craving and fills the void. It is a sort
of supposititious courtship,--a saying to one woman, who is sympathetic and receptive, the
words of longing and love that another will not receive. To be sure it is a game unworthy of
any true man,--a piece of sheer, reckless, inconsiderate selfishness. But men do it, as they
do many other unworthy things, from the mere promptings of present impulse, and let consequences
take care of themselves. Moses met Sally that afternoon in just the frame to play the lover
in this hypothetical, supposititious way, with words and looks and tones that came from feelings
given to another. And as to Sally? Well, for once, Greek met Greek; for although Sally, as
we showed her, was a girl of generous impulses, she was yet in no danger of immediate translation
on account of superhuman goodness. In short, Sally had made up her mind that Moses should give
her a chance to say that precious and golden No, which should enable her to count him as one
of her captives,--and then he might go where he liked for all her.

So said the wicked elf, as she looked into her own great eyes in the little square of mirror
shaded by a misty asparagus bush; and to this end there were various braidings and adornings
of the lustrous black hair, and coquettish earrings were mounted that hung glancing and twinkling
just by the smooth outline of her glowing cheek,--and then Sally looked at herself in a friendly
way of approbation, and nodded at the bright dimpled shadow with a look of secret understanding.
The real Sally and the Sally of the looking-glass were on admirable terms with each other,
and both of one mind about the plan of campaign against the common enemy. Sally thought of
him as he stood kingly and triumphant on the deck of his vessel, his great black eyes flashing
confident glances into hers, and she felt a rebellious rustle of all her plumage. "No, sir,"
she said to herself, "you don't do it. You shall never find me among your slaves,"--"that you
know of," added a doubtful voice within her. "Never to your knowledge," she said, as she turned
away. "I wonder if he will come here this evening," she said, as she began to work upon a pillow-case,--one
of a set which Mrs. Kittridge had confided to her nimble fingers. The seam was long, straight,
and monotonous, and Sally was restless and fidgety; her thread would catch in knots, and when
she tried to loosen it, would break, and the needle had to be threaded over. Somehow the work
was terribly irksome to her, and the house looked so still and dim and lonesome, and the tick-tock
of the kitchen-clock was insufferable, and Sally let her work fall in her lap and looked out
of the open window, far to the open ocean, where a fresh breeze was blowing toward her, and
her eyes grew deep and dreamy following the gliding ship sails. Sally was getting romantic.
Had she been reading novels? Novels! What can a pretty woman find in a novel equal to the romance
that is all the while weaving and unweaving about her, and of which no human foresight can
tell her the catastrophe? It is novels that give false views of life. Is there not an eternal
novel, with all these false, cheating views, written in the breast of every beautiful and attractive
girl whose witcheries make every man that comes near her talk like a fool? Like a sovereign
princess, she never hears the truth, unless it be from the one manly man in a thousand, who
understands both himself and her. From all the rest she hears only flatteries more or less
ingenious, according to the ability of the framer. Compare, for instance, what Tom Brown says
to little Seraphina at the party to-night, with what Tom Brown sober says to sober sister Maria
about her to-morrow. Tom remembers that he was a fool last night, and knows what he thinks
and always has thought to-day; but pretty Seraphina thinks he adores her, so that no matter
what she does he will never see a flaw, she is sure of that,--poor little puss! She does not
know that philosophic Tom looks at her as he does at a glass of champagne, or a dose of exhilarating
gas, and calculates how much it will do for him to take of the stimulus without interfering
with his serious and settled plans of life, which, of course, he doesn't mean to give up for
her. The one-thousand-and-first man in creation is he that can feel the fascination but will
not flatter, and that tries to tell to the little tyrant the rare word of truth that may save
her; he is, as we say, the one-thousand-and-first. Well, as Sally sat with her great dark eyes
dreamily following the ship, she mentally thought over all the compliments Moses had paid her,
expressed or understood, and those of all her other admirers, who had built up a sort of cloud-world
around her, so that her little feet never rested on the soil of reality. Sally was shrewd and
keen, and had a native mother-wit in the discernment of spirits, that made her feel that somehow
this was all false coin; but still she counted it over, and it looked so pretty and bright
that she sighed to think it was not real. Speech-to-school degree, 29 September 1809

Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel

By gracious commands I am instructed by the ceremonial distribution of prices, which the very highest
government to pupils who are distinguished by their progress, in reward, and even more determined
to cheer, in a public speech, the history represent the high school institution in the preceding
year and to touch that of which for can speak to the relationship of the audience to the same
are furnished. Sun respectfully I have to fulfill this duty, so much the custom to call is in
the nature of the subject matter and content, which is a series of royal benefits or effects and its
representation, the expression of deep gratitude for the most guilty of the same contains -
a Gratitude, for we in communion with the audience raised the concern of the Government offer
the public educational institutions .-- There are two branches of state administration, good facilities
for their care and distinguishable on the peoples to be good administration of justice and good
educational institutions, because of no over sees and feels the benefits of the private citizen and effects
so immediate, near and individually by those branches, the one his
private property at all, but the other relates to his dearest property,
his children.

The local town has recognized the benefits of a new school means more vividly, the larger and generally
felt the need of an alteration was.

The new facility also had the advantage of old, many centuries passed institutions not to follow
a new, and it was therefore unable to present the idea of ​​a long duration, of a permanent establish
new, and that confidence has not been responsive the counter-thoughts disturbed that the new device
a little, perhaps only temporarily, He thought experiment - a thought
that especially if it is in the minds of those to whom the immediate
execution is entrusted, [sets,] often even capable of a device in
fact, reduce to a mere experiment.

A more internal reason of confidence is that the new facility in substantial improvement and expansion
of the whole, has received the principle of the older and therefore
is only a continuation is the same.

And it is remarkable that this fact is characteristic and excellent the new facility represents.

By the academic year is ending in the first year and the history of our institution in the same the
story of their creation, so is the thought of their whole plan and purpose to obvious as we
from him, and even to individual occurrences of the same attention would like addressed. Because
the thing itself is only just become so busy or their Substance, the curiosity and meditative reflection.
The individual is but part of the public display is known, in part, as well as further details of what
and how and how many Students this year have been taught is communicated to the public in the printed Schuelerkatalog
mentioned. It should allow me, therefore, the high presence of Your Excellency and this highly
respected Assembly to stick to the principle of our institute and his relationship and its guidelines
and they provide some general sense of their thoughts, so far as the dissipative Overactivity,
which my office brought in this particular time points to collect
me allowed.

The spirit and purpose of our institution is to prepare students for scholarly study, namely
a Preparation, which is built upon the foundation of the Greeks and Romans. For several millennia
this is the floor, stood on all the culture from which they hervorgesprosst and which it has been
in constant connection. Organizations such as the natural, plant and animals that wrest the severity,
but this element of their nature can not leave; then all art and science that has grown out
of the ground, and although independent practice in the become, it has not exempted by the memory
of those older formation. How Anteus its forces by the touch of mother earth renewed, then each
new boom and affirmation of science and education, to the light from
the return to antiquity lifted.

As important, however, the preservation of this land is so essential is the modification of the ratio,
in which he has previously stood. If the insight into the inadequacy, Adverse old Principles and institutions
at all and thus their related previous education purposes and educational resources occurs, it
is the thought that presents itself first on the surface, the complete abolition and elimination
of it. But the sublime wisdom of the government, about this slightly translucent help, fulfilled in
the most truthful way the need of the time the fact that the old
ones into a new relationship to the whole set, and thus the essence
receives them as much as they changed and renewed.

I just need a few words to the known position to remember what the learning the Latin language had previously,
that the same not only for a moment of the learned Study was considered, but the most essential
part of it accounted for and the only higher education resources was at which they presented
was that not the general, quite elementary wanted to stop lessons, that for the acquisition of
other skills, which for bourgeois life or useful in and of themselves are of value, hardly
the express stations were made, but on the whole the opportunity to make over the alder that
language was whether some of them and how much it anflog - that those skills in part for a special
art, were not also for an educational resources, mostly in those
shell were wrapped.

The general voice was raised against that wretched become Latin learning, and it rose especially
the feeling that a people can not be regarded as formed, which is not all the treasures of science
in his own language to express and be in it with each Content can move freely. This intimacy
with which the language of our own angehoert missing the knowledge
that we possess only in a strange, they are by a partition of separated
us, the spirit which they can not truly be indigenous.

This point of view, the bad, often to the patency mechanism sinking down methods, the failed acquisition
of many important skills and mental skills has gradually the knowledge of the Latin language of their
claims, as the principal science to apply, and their long alleged dignity, and almost universal
means of education ausschlieslich to be discontinued. She has stopped to be regarded as an end,
and this spiritual Employment, however, has called objects, and below normal daily, sensual
things leave no educational materials are capable of over herself conversant'll have to see.
Without contrasts in this and the other provisions in their exaggerations or Outside enter into
a collision, it is sufficient here to rejoice the wise relationship,
which our very highest government has set herein.

First, is the same with the perfection of the German national schools the general citizen education
extended, it will thereby provides all the resources essential to them as people and for their stand
to learn useful, those who lacked the Better yet, is thereby guaranteed respecting the same,
but to those who, for something better than the inadequate general Receive instruction could
access only to the said means of education is the same made expendable and replaced by proper
knowledge and skills .-- Also the local city provides the complete organization of the largest
parts of the remaining Kingdom of already proven boon forward to
- a boon to their important Consequences for the whole thing difficult
to calculate.

Second, the study of science and the acquisition of higher mental
and useful Skills in their independence from the old literature, in
a separate sister institution get their full resources.

Third, finally, the old language study has been preserved. It is sometimes still higher than Educational
resources open to everyone, but sometimes it is based on thorough studies of the learned been
secured. By the same is now entered in addition to that, it's his ausschlieslich become forfeited
and may have erased the hate against his former pretensions.

So entered on the page, it has to demand the more the law, that in his deposition GRANT may and
free of strange and disturbing interference also remain undisturbed.

Through this separation and restriction, it has its true position and the opportunity get to be
able to develop more freely and fully. The real hallmark of of freedom and strength of an organization
is, if the distinct moments, it contains, to delve into and make the completed system, without
envy and Fear driving next to each other their work and see it drift, and that all the parts
again just of a whole are. Only that which is completely isolated in his principle does, is
a consistent whole, ie there is something, it gains depth and the
strong possibility of diversity.

The concern and anxiety about one-sidedness is accustomed to frequently anzugehoeren the weakness,
the only versatile inconsistent superficiality is capable.

If now is the study of ancient languages ​​like before the foundation of the learned education,
it has been in this restriction really extended. There seems to be a just demand to be that
the culture, art and science of a people to their own Legs are to come. We allowed the formation
of the modern world, our clarification and the progress of arts and sciences do not believe that
the Greek and have represented Roman children's shoes, outgrown its old-strings on their own Land
can be based? The works of the ancients would like her after all, bigger or smaller value remain
troubled, but they had in the series of memories, learned of idle Sights to repudiate the mere
historical, the record could be or not, but not the absolute basis
for our higher spiritual development and Beginning would have to make.

Let us apply it, however, that at all presumed to be excellent, so is for the higher studies in
Greek literature primarily, and then the Romans, the basis to be and to remain. The perfection
and glory of these masterpieces have the intellectual Bad be the secular baptism, which the
soul and the first captive tone and tincture science of taste and give up. And to this inauguration
is not a general exterior sufficiently acquainted with the old, but we have to them in food and provide
housing to their air, their ideas, their customs, even if you will, their errors and prejudices and
to suck in this world are indigenous - the most beautiful, which
was is.

If the first paradise was the paradise of human nature, this is the second, higher, Paradise of the
human mind, the most beautiful in its naturalness, freedom, depth and serenity as the bride
emerges from her room. The first wild splendor of its emergence in the East by the glory of the
form is defined and reduced to beauty; it has its depth is no longer in the confusion, Truebseligkeit
or conceit, but it lies open in uninhibited clarity, and his cheerfulness is not a childish game
hergebreitet but about the sadness that knows the harshness of fate, but through them not about
the freedom and it is driven from the ground. I do not think too much to say when I say that anyone
who works for the elderly is not known, has lived without the beauty
of knowing.

In such elements now, by us [is] ors, it's not just that all the forces
of soul inspired, developed and practiced, but the same is a peculiar
Material, through which we enrich ourselves and better prepare our
substance.

It has been said that the Geistestaetigkeit can be practiced at any substances, and as the most
appropriate material appeared in part Externally practically useful,
and sometimes the sensible objects, the juvenile or the child's age
are the most appropriate by the parties and all belonged to the type
of representation, which this age already and have for themselves.

If maybe, maybe not in the formal matter, the practice of self- respect to this circle, on which
to do it, so can be separated and indifferent on the other hand might be, it is not about practicing
to do alone. Like the plant that forces its reproduction of light and air not only acts but also in
the processes of their Food sucks, then the material on which the mind at all and the fortune
of the soul develop and exercise at the same time be a food. Not those so-called useful substances,
those sensuous materiality, as it falls directly into the mode of conception of the child, only
the intellectual content, which value and interest in and of itself has reinforced, the Soul
and gives them support independent, this substantial inward, which Mother of form, of sound
mind, is the present and the guards of the mind, he created the great soul drawn to it for
a purpose that only the basis of usefulness to all accounts and it is important to instill in all
classes. We have not in recent Times even states himself that such an inner light in the soul of
their relatives maintain and develop neglected and despised them on the mere usefulness and in
the intellectual and only as a means directed, and stand in danger haltungslos zusammenstuerzen
in the middle of its many useful resources to see?

The finest food material now and in the noblest form, the golden apples in silver bowls, include
the works of the ancients, and incomparably more than any other Weke any time and nation. I need
to the grandeur of her sentiments, her plastic, of moral Ambiguity-free virtue and patriotism, to
the grand scale of their actions and characters, the diversity of their destinies, their customs and
constitutions only to remember the assertion to justify that to the extent not so much education admirable,
admirable, Original, versatile and informative was united.

This wealth but is bound by the language, and only in and through this we reach it in all its
peculiarity. The contents give us some translations, but not the form, not the ethereal soul of it. They
are like the fake roses shape, color, as well as the odor may be naturally similar, but the
loveliness Delicacy and softness of life do not reach those. Or other delicacy and Fineness
of the copy belongs only to that at which a contrast between the content and not with him the adult
form makes itself felt. Language is the musical element, the element of intimacy that disappears
in the transmission, - the subtle scent, by the the sympathy of the soul is to enjoy, but without
the work of the ancients only taste such as the Rhine wine that is
into thin air.

This situation presents us with the hard translucent need the languages ​​of the Old thoroughly
to study and to make us familiar with their works in the most possible extent of all to be
able to enjoy their sides and superiority. If we are about the struggles that we in this would have
to apply to complain, and it could fear or regret, the acquisition other knowledge and skills
to have to return and share about it, so we would have the fate to complain that we are not in our
own language has given this group of classical works will be that
we made the journey to ancient times muehevolle expendable and replacement
the same for granted.

After I spoke of the materials of education, leads to this desire, some Words to say about the formal,
that is in their nature.

The progress of education is not given as the quiet continuation of a chain to see at its former
members but with the following would Ruecksicht them together, but matter on its own and without this
further work would be directed against the former. But the education must have a former substance
and subject on which she works, they formed and changed again. It is necessary that we acquire
the world of antiquity, so in order to possess her, even more than to have something that we process
.-- But to to be subject to, the substance of the nature and spirit are confronted be, they must
have received the form of something alien to .-- misfortune, which his immediate world of feelings
is alienated, for this means nothing else than that the individual bonds that befriend the mind and
thoughts to the holy life of faith, Love and trust, he is torn - For the alienation that the theoretical
condition Education is not that these calls moral pain, not the suffering of the heart, but
the ease of pain and effort of the imagination, with a non-immediate, an alien, with a bit
of memory, the memory and thinking relatives offering jobs for .-- This requirement of separation
but is so necessary that they be considered a known in general and drive us MATTER. The strangeness,
the distance the attractive leads Interest, arising from the invites to the employment and
effort, and the Desirable is in inverse ratio to the vicinity in which it stands and the public
is with us. represents the youth of it as a blessing to get away from the locals and with Robinson
to inhabit a distant island. It is a necessary deception, the first depth in the form the distance
to have to look, but the depth and strength that we gain can only be the distance to be measured,
in which we flew from the central points in which we were first buried and where we strive
again.

On these Zentrifugaltrieb the soul is based now at all the need for divorce it seeks from its
natural character and condition, proffering her own and a distant, to have to put into another
world in the young mind. The partition, however, so this Separation for the formation of which is
discussed here, is accomplished, the world and language the elderly, but it that separates us
from us will contain the same time all the initial points and threads the return to itself,
the friends with her and the rediscovery of himself, but its true
to the general nature of the mind.

This common need which the world of imagination so much as to be the language this includes, when
we apply them to the learning of the latter, is self-evident that the mechanical side of it
is more than just a necessary evil.

For the mechanical is [the] spirit of strangers, for whom it has interest that put into it Undigested
to digest, communicating to him even in inanimate things and make it his own.

With the mechanical factors of language learning connects anyway once the grammatical Studies, where the
value can not be overestimated, for it is the beginning of the logical formation from - a site
that I touch even recently, because they almost forgotten come seems to be. The grammar has the
categories namely, the peculiar products and provisions of the mind for its content, in her words
Catch the understanding of self, to be learned. These spiritual beings, that makes us first known,
something highly barrel wonderland for the young, and probably nothing spiritual [is] more
intelligible than they; not yet comprehensive because the power of this age, the rich can, in its manifold
not included, but those are the very simple abstractions. They are, as the single letter, namely, the
vowels of the spiritual, with which we begin to spell, [to] it and to learn to read then. - Then
it also carries the grammar to that age appropriate Art ago by the same characteristics by external
aid, which the language itself usually contains different, teaches, something better than anyone
can distinguish red and blue, without the definitions of these colors according to Newton's
hypothesis, or any other theory to be able to specify ranges that knowledge through the time
being, and it is highly important in this discrepancies have been alerted. For if the mind conditions
because We are intelligent beings, are in us and we understand them immediately, there is The
first is education, they have to say they made the subject of consciousness
to have to be able to distinguish and by features.

By learning the grammatical terminology and abstractions are moving in this Study as the elemental philosophy to
see is it will not only significantly as means but as an end - both in the Latin than in the
German language teaching - considered. The general superficial levity to market the whole of the
seriousness and violence the shocks that we experienced was needed, had, as in other respects,
so well known, Again, the relationship between means and end runs, and the substantive knowledge
of a language higher than their course for care .-- The grammatical learning an ancient language
also has the advantage of being persistent and unremitting Vernunfttaetigkeit must be; for here, unlike
in the mother tongue, the mindless habit the right Wortfuegung causes, but it is necessary to
the understanding of the specific value of the parts of speech to make eyes and the rule of
their connection to call for help. Thus, but finds a continual subsumption of the particular under
the universal and the particularity of the General rather than what even the shape of the Vernunfttaetigkeit
there .-- The strict grammatical studies is therefore one of the
most common and noblest means of education.

This combined with the study of the elderly in their peculiar language and the grammatical
Study makes up the essential features of the principle, which characterizes our institution.
This important right, it's so rich in itself understands, so not the full extent knowledge, in
which introduces our preparatory institution. Moreover, that even the Reading the old classic
is chosen for presenting an educational content that deals the Insurance
Authority will also notify the skills that have a value in and of
itself, are of particular usefulness, or an ornament.

"Don't care if he's captain of twenty ships," said Miss Roxy, obdurately; "he ain't a professor
of religion, and I believe he's an infidel, and she's one of the Lord's people."

"Well," said Mrs. Badger, "you know the unbelievin' husband shall be sanctified by the believin'
wife."

"Much sanctifyin' he'll get," said Miss Roxy, contemptuously. "I don't believe he loves her
any more than fancy; she's the last plaything, and when he's got her, he'll be tired of her,
as he always was with anything he got ever since. I tell you, Moses Pennel is all for pride
and ambition and the world; and his wife, when he gets used to her, 'll be only a circumstance,--that's
all."

"Come, now, Miss Roxy," said Miss Emily, who in her best silk and smoothly-brushed hair had
just come in, "we must not let you talk so. Moses Pennel has had long talks with brother, and
he thinks him in a very hopeful way, and we are all delighted; and as to Mara, she is as fresh
and happy as a little rose."

"So I tell Roxy," said Miss Ruey, who had been absent from the room to hold private consultations
with Miss Emily concerning the biscuits and sponge-cake for tea, and who now sat down to the
quilt and began to unroll a capacious and very limp calico thread-case; and placing her spectacles
awry on her little pug nose, she began a series of ingenious dodges with her thread, designed
to hit the eye of her needle.

"The old folks," she continued, "are e'en a'most tickled to pieces,--'cause they think it'll
jist be the salvation of him to get Mara."

"I ain't one of the sort that wants to be a-usin' up girls for the salvation of fellers," said
Miss Roxy, severely. "Ever since he nearly like to have got her eat up by sharks, by giggiting
her off in the boat out to sea when she wa'n't more'n three years old, I always have thought
he was a misfortin' in that family, and I think so now."

Here broke in Mrs. Eaton, a thrifty energetic widow of a deceased sea-captain, who had been
left with a tidy little fortune which commanded the respect of the neighborhood. Mrs. Eaton
had entered silently during the discussion, but of course had come, as every other woman had
that afternoon, with views to be expressed upon the subject.

"For my part," she said, as she stuck a decisive needle into the first clam-shell pattern,
"I ain't so sure that all the advantage in this match is on Moses Pennel's part. Mara Lincoln
is a good little thing, but she ain't fitted to help a man along,--she'll always be wantin'
somebody to help her. Why, I 'member goin' a voyage with Cap'n Eaton, when I saved the ship,
if anybody did,--it was allowed on all hands. Cap'n Eaton wasn't hearty at that time, he was
jist gettin' up from a fever,--it was when Marthy Ann was a baby, and I jist took her and went
to sea and took care of him. I used to work the longitude for him and help him lay the ship's
course when his head was bad,--and when we came on the coast, we were kept out of harbor beatin'
about nearly three weeks, and all the ship's tacklin' was stiff with ice, and I tell you the
men never would have stood it through and got the ship in, if it hadn't been for me. I kept
their mittens and stockings all the while a-dryin' at my stove in the cabin, and hot coffee
all the while a-boilin' for 'em, or I believe they'd a-frozen their hands and feet, and never
been able to work the ship in. That's the way I did. Now Sally Kittridge is a great deal more
like that than Mara."

"There's no doubt that Sally is smart," said Mrs. Badger, "but then it ain't every one can
do like you, Mrs. Eaton."

"Oh no, oh no," was murmured from mouth to mouth; "Mrs. Eaton mustn't think she's any rule
for others,--everybody knows she can do more than most people;" whereat the pacified Mrs. Eaton
said "she didn't know as it was anything remarkable,--it showed what anybody might do, if they'd
only try and have resolution; but that Mara never had been brought up to have resolution, and
her mother never had resolution before her, it wasn't in any of Mary Pennel's family; she knew
their grandmother and all their aunts, and they were all a weakly set, and not fitted to get
along in life,--they were a kind of people that somehow didn't seem to know how to take hold
of things."

At this moment the consultation was hushed up by the entrance of Sally Kittridge and Mara,
evidently on the closest terms of intimacy, and more than usually demonstrative and affectionate;
they would sit together and use each other's needles, scissors, thread, and thimbles interchangeably,
as if anxious to express every minute the most overflowing confidence. Sly winks and didactic
nods were covertly exchanged among the elderly people, and when Mrs. Kittridge entered with
more than usual airs of impressive solemnity, several of these were covertly directed toward
her, as a matron whose views in life must have been considerably darkened by the recent event.

Mrs. Kittridge, however, found an opportunity to whisper under her breath to Miss Ruey what
a relief to her it was that the affair had taken such a turn. She had felt uneasy all summer
for fear of what might come. Sally was so thoughtless and worldly, she felt afraid that he
would lead her astray. She didn't see, for her part, how a professor of religion like Mara
could make up her mind to such an unsettled kind of fellow, even if he did seem to be rich
and well-to-do. But then she had done looking for consistency; and she sighed and vigorously
applied herself to quilting like one who has done with the world.

In return, Miss Ruey sighed and took snuff, and related for the hundredth time to Mrs. Kittridge
the great escape she once had from the addresses of Abraham Peters, who had turned out a "poor
drunken creetur."

In fact, Miss Ruey's sentimental vein was in quite a gushing state, for she more than once
extracted from the dark corners of the limp calico thread-case we have spoken of certain long-treasured
morceaux of newspaper poetry, of a tender and sentimental cast, which she had laid up with
true Yankee economy, in case any one should ever be in a situation to need them. They related
principally to the union of kindred hearts, and the joys of reciprocated feeling and the pains
of absence. Good Miss Ruey occasionally passed these to Mara, with glances full of meaning,
which caused the poor old thing to resemble a sentimental goblin, keeping Sally Kittridge in
a perfect hysterical tempest of suppressed laughter, and making it difficult for Mara to preserve
the decencies of life toward her well-intending old friend. The trouble with poor Miss Ruey
was that, while her body had grown old and crazy, her soul was just as juvenile as ever,--and
a simple, juvenile soul disporting itself in a crazy, battered old body, is at great disadvantage.
It was lucky for her, however, that she lived in the most sacred unconsciousness of the ludicrous
effect of her little indulgences, and the pleasure she took in them was certainly of the most
harmless kind. The world would be a far better and more enjoyable place than it is, if all
people who are old and uncomely could find amusement as innocent and Christian-like as Miss
Ruey's inoffensive thread-case collection of sentimental truisms.

This quilting of which we speak was a solemn, festive occasion of the parish, held a week after
Moses had sailed away; and so piquant a morsel as a recent engagement could not, of course,
fail to be served up for the company in every variety of garnishing which individual tastes
might suggest.

It became an ascertained fact, however, in the course of the evening festivities, that the
minister was serenely approbative of the event; that Captain Kittridge was at length brought
to a sense of the errors of his way in supposing that Sally had ever cared a pin for Moses
more than as a mutual friend and confidant; and the great affair was settled without more ripples
of discomposure than usually attend similar announcements in more refined society.

CHAPTER XXXIV

FRIENDS

The quilting broke up at the primitive hour of nine o'clock, at which, in early New England
days, all social gatherings always dispersed. Captain Kittridge rowed his helpmeet, with Mara
and Sally, across the Bay to the island.

"Come and stay with me to-night, Sally," said Mara.

"I think Sally had best be at home," said Mrs. Kittridge. "There's no sense in girls talking
all night."

"There ain't sense in nothin' else, mother," said the Captain. "Next to sparkin', which is
the Christianist thing I knows on, comes gals' talks 'bout their sparks; they's as natural
as crowsfoot and red columbines in the spring, and spring don't come but once a year neither,--and
so let 'em take the comfort on't. I warrant now, Polly, you've laid awake nights and talked
about me."

"We've all been foolish once," said Mrs. Kittridge.

"Well, mother, we want to be foolish too," said Sally.

"Well, you and your father are too much for me," said Mrs. Kittridge, plaintively; "you always
get your own way."

"How lucky that my way is always a good one!" said Sally.

"Well, you know, Sally, you are going to make the beer to-morrow," still objected her mother.

"Oh, yes; that's another reason," said Sally. "Mara and I shall come home through the woods
in the morning, and we can get whole apronfuls of young wintergreen, and besides, I know where
there's a lot of sassafras root. We'll dig it, won't we, Mara?"

"Yes; and I'll come down and help you brew," said Mara. Architectural Understanding
betrayed his paintings. As a painter he has gone from the landscape, he but has occasional portraits
and sculptures created the most popular of the century includes many figures and finally in-wall
and easel paintings are highest paid. He has also cut gems and furniture design.

Böcklin has over the years, similarly to Rubens for his purposes, the entire art the past, where
she was studying to reach.

Mrs. Kittridge, who never did anything else among her tea-drinking acquaintances but laud and
magnify Sally's good traits and domestic acquirements, felt constantly bound to keep up a faint
show of controversy and authority in her dealings with her,--the fading remains of the strict
government of her childhood; but it was, nevertheless, very perfectly understood, in a general
way, that Sally was to do as she pleased; and so, when the boat came to shore, she took the
arm of Mara and started up toward the brown house.

The air was soft and balmy, and though the moon by which the troth of Mara and Moses had been
plighted had waned into the latest hours of the night, still a thousand stars were lying in
twinkling brightness, reflected from the undulating waves all around them, and the tide, as
it rose and fell, made a sound as gentle and soft as the respiration of a peaceful sleeper.

"Well, Mara," said Sally, after an interval of silence, "all has come out right. You see that
it was you whom he loved. What a lucky thing for me that I am made so heartless, or I might
not be as glad as I am."

"You are not heartless, Sally," said Mara; "it's the enchanted princess asleep; the right one
hasn't come to waken her."

"Maybe so," said Sally, with her old light laugh. "If I only were sure he would make you happy
now,--half as happy as you deserve,--I'd forgive him his share of this summer's mischief. The
fault was just half mine, you see, for I witched with him. I confess it. I have my own little
spider-webs for these great lordly flies, and I like to hear them buzz."

"Take care, Sally; never do it again, or the spider-web may get round you," said Mara.

"Never fear me," said Sally. "But, Mara, I wish I felt sure that Moses could make you happy.
Do you really, now, when you think seriously, feel as if he would?"

"I never thought seriously about it," said Mara; "but I know he needs me; that I can do for
him what no one else can. I have always felt all my life that he was to be mine; that he was
sent to me, ordained for me to care for and to love."

"You are well mated," said Sally. "He wants to be loved very much, and you want to love. There's
the active and passive voice, as they used to say at Miss Plucher's. But yet in your natures
you are opposite as any two could well be."

Mara felt that there was in these chance words of Sally more than she perceived. No one could
feel as intensely as she could that the mind and heart so dear to her were yet, as to all that
was most vital and real in her inner life, unsympathizing. To her the spiritual world was a
reality; God an ever-present consciousness; and the line of this present life seemed so to
melt and lose itself in the anticipation of a future and brighter one, that it was impossible
for her to speak intimately and not unconsciously to betray the fact. To him there was only
the life of this world: there was no present God; and from all thought of a future life he
shrank with a shuddering aversion, as from something ghastly and unnatural. She had realized
this difference more in the few days that followed her betrothal than all her life before,
for now first the barrier of mutual constraint and misunderstanding having melted away, each
spoke with an abandon and unreserve which made the acquaintance more vitally intimate than
ever it had been before. It was then that Mara felt that while her sympathies could follow
him through all his plans and interests, there was a whole world of thought and feeling in
her heart where his could not follow her; and she asked herself, Would it be so always? Must
she walk at his side forever repressing the utterance of that which was most sacred and intimate,
living in a nominal and external communion only? How could it be that what was so lovely and
clear in its reality to her, that which was to her as life-blood, that which was the vital
air in which she lived and moved and had her being, could be absolutely nothing to him? Was
it really possible, as he said, that God had no existence for him except in a nominal cold
belief; that the spiritual world was to him only a land of pale shades and doubtful glooms,
from which he shrank with dread, and the least allusion to which was distasteful? and would
this always be so? and if so, could she be happy?

But Mara said the truth in saying that the question of personal happiness never entered her
thoughts. She loved Moses in a way that made it necessary to her happiness to devote herself
to him, to watch over and care for him; and though she knew not how, she felt a sort of presentiment
that it was through her that he must be brought into sympathy with a spiritual and immortal life.

All this passed through Mara's mind in the reverie into which Sally's last words threw her,
as she sat on the door-sill and looked off into the starry distance and heard the weird murmur
of the sea.

"How lonesome the sea at night always is," said Sally. "I declare, Mara, I don't wonder you
miss that creature, for, to tell the truth, I do a little bit. It was something, you know,
to have somebody to come in, and to joke with, and to say how he liked one's hair and one's
ribbons, and all that. I quite got up a friendship for Moses, so that I can feel how dull you
must be;" and Sally gave a half sigh, and then whistled a tune as adroitly as a blackbird.

"Yes," said Mara, "we two girls down on this lonely island need some one to connect us with
the great world; and he was so full of life, and so certain and confident, he seemed to open
a way before one out into life."

"Well, of course, while he is gone there will be plenty to do getting ready to be married,"
said Sally. "By the by, when I was over to Portland the other day, Maria Potter showed me a
new pattern for a bed-quilt, the sweetest thing you can imagine,--it is called the morning
star. There is a great star in the centre, and little stars all around,--white on a blue ground.
I mean to begin one for you."

"I am going to begin spinning some very fine flax next week," said Mara; "and have I shown
you the new pattern I drew for a counterpane? it is to be morning-glories, leaves and flowers,
you know,--a pretty idea, isn't it?"

And so, the conversation falling from the region of the sentimental to the practical, the two
girls went in and spent an hour in discussions so purely feminine that we will not enlighten
the reader further therewith. Sally seemed to be investing all her energies in the preparation
of the wedding outfit of her friend, about which she talked with a constant and restless activity,
and for which she formed a thousand plans, and projected shopping tours to Portland, Brunswick,
and even to Boston,--this last being about as far off a venture at that time as Paris now seems
to a Boston belle.

"When you are married," said Sally, "you'll have to take me to live with you; that creature
sha'n't have you all to himself. I hate men, they are so exorbitant,--they spoil all our playmates;
and what shall I do when you are gone?" The elongated ridge, the steep Cliffs, picturesque gorges,
the wonderful beech and fir forests and the ruins, across the salute from mountain to mountain and resemble
a military past, all the was calculated to excite the imagination of the boys strong. The coating
often has a sustainable as the Glamorous. Certain basic features of this landscape appear as in the
famous creations the late period, which occur in the shining robes of southern vegetation to return.

The
Holbein painting, which formed the proud artistic heritage of the
city hung, then in a space of the library, did not have enough light,
such as stamps in an album close together "to the ceiling", "but I
had good eyes," said the champion.

Course are among these masterpieces few that deep impression on Unprepared make and maintain
even the little was - how should believe - not such a landscape painter who was born to excite.
What distinguished the work was the clarity of form and the fineness and sharpness of observation,
and yet they have him "very pleased" to have him "very interested", although, as he himself
pointed out, Holbein direction other than which has been his.

Of strong, albeit now in the individual no longer abzuschätzendem influence on the thinking and
feelings of the growing artist was undoubtedly the last of the literary movement Time (even
his art teacher, complained Böcklin read too much), were the mighty
waves the patriotic enthusiasm that went into the forties through
Switzerland.

The time in which it asserted Böcklin to be allowed to become a painter, coincides with the as
Gottfried Keller realized he was appointed poet.

THE BEGINNING OF HIS ART

The beginning of the painter's career falls in the year 1845.

In the spring Böcklin left the school, in the summer he made studies,
it seems, both in the Alps and the Jura, and in October he joined
the Düsseldorf Academy.

From November, the first nude drawings are dated.

He was a slender man with grown long hair, almost to the shoulders
fell, and blue-gray with piercing eyes.

He had an unusually strong Body, steeled by systematic exercise, to make it pliable and keep
them supple was. This was the basis for his love of life and his humor, his perseverance and
the admirable elasticity with which he jumped up after the worst disaster ever again. The gods
had given him but with the power and the sensitivity and vulnerability of the soul awarded
without a brilliant artist is inconceivable. He could break out in loud cheers, when he went on a beautiful
morning in the countryside, but he felt even more deeply than others the blows of fate, and it
is to him a full fair amount of them have won. The unusual irritability and susceptibility corresponded
to a remarkable memory, what charmed or wounded, is held by the people. His memory had known
as his Capacity limit.
 Probably after a week of efficient
labor, busily expended in bleaching, dyeing, pressing, sewing, and ripping, an unenlightened
spectator, seeing them come into the meeting-house, would simply think, "There are those two
old frights with the same old things on they have worn these fifty years." Happily the weird
sisters were contentedly ignorant of any such remarks, for no duchesses could have enjoyed
a more quiet belief in their own social position, and their semi-annual spring and fall rehabilitation
was therefore entered into with the most simple-hearted satisfaction.

"I'm a-thinkin', Roxy," said Aunt Ruey, considerately turning and turning on her hand an old
straw bonnet, on which were streaked all the marks of the former trimming in lighter lines,
which revealed too clearly the effects of wind and weather,--"I'm a-thinkin' whether or no
this 'ere mightn't as well be dyed and done with it as try to bleach it out. I've had it ten
years last May, and it's kind o' losin' its freshness, you know. I don't believe these 'ere
streaks will bleach out."

"Never mind, Ruey," said Miss Roxy, authoritatively, "I'm goin' to do Mis' Badger's leg'orn,
and it won't cost nothin'; so hang your'n in the barrel along with it,--the same smoke'll do
'em both. Mis' Badger she finds the brimstone, and next fall you can put it in the dye when
we do the yarn."

"That ar straw is a beautiful straw!" said Miss Ruey, in a plaintive tone, tenderly examining
the battered old head-piece,--"I braided every stroke on it myself, and I don't know as I could
do it ag'in. My fingers ain't quite so limber as they was! I don't think I shall put green
ribbon on it ag'in; 'cause green is such a color to ruin, if a body gets caught out in a shower!
There's these green streaks come that day I left my amberil at Captain Broad's, and went to
meetin'. Mis' Broad she says to me, 'Aunt Ruey, it won't rain.' And says I to her, 'Well, Mis'
Broad, I'll try it; though I never did leave my amberil at home but what it rained.' And so
I went, and sure enough it rained cats and dogs, and streaked my bonnet all up; and them ar
streaks won't bleach out, I'm feared."

"How long is it Mis' Badger has had that ar leg'orn?"

"Why, you know, the Cap'n he brought it home when he came from his voyage from Marseilles.
That ar was when Phebe Ann was born, and she's fifteen year old. It was a most elegant thing
when he brought it; but I think it kind o' led Mis' Badger on to extravagant ways,--for gettin'
new trimmin' spring and fall so uses up money as fast as new bonnets; but Mis' Badger's got
the money, and she's got a right to use it if she pleases; but if I'd a-had new trimmin's spring
and fall, I shouldn't a-put away what I have in the bank."

"Have you seen the straw Sally Kittridge is braidin' for Mara Lincoln's weddin' bonnet?" said
Miss Ruey. "It's jist the finest thing ever you did see,--and the whitest. I was a-tellin'
Sally that I could do as well once myself, but my mantle was a-fallin' on her. Sally don't
seem to act a bit like a disap'inted gal. She is as chipper as she can be about Mara's weddin',
and seems like she couldn't do too much. But laws, everybody seems to want to be a-doin' for
her. Miss Emily was a-showin' me a fine double damask tablecloth that she was goin' to give
her; and Mis' Pennel, she's been a-spinnin' and layin' up sheets and towels and tablecloths
all her life,--and then she has all Naomi's things. Mis' Pennel was talkin' to me the other
day about bleachin' 'em out 'cause they'd got yellow a-lyin'. I kind o' felt as if 'twas unlucky
to be a-fittin' out a bride with her dead mother's things, but I didn't like to say nothin'."

"Ruey," said Miss Roxy impressively, "I hain't never had but jist one mind about Mara Lincoln's
weddin',--it's to be,--but it won't be the way people think. I hain't nussed and watched and
sot up nights sixty years for nothin'. I can see beyond what most folks can,--her weddin' garments
is bought and paid for, and she'll wear 'em, but she won't be Moses Pennel's wife,--now you see."

"Why, whose wife will she be then?" said Miss Ruey; "'cause that ar Mr. Adams is married. I
saw it in the paper last week when I was up to Mis' Badger's."

Miss Roxy shut her lips with oracular sternness and went on with her sewing.

"Who's that comin' in the back door?" said Miss Ruey, as the sound of a footstep fell upon
her ear. "Bless me," she added, as she started up to look, "if folks ain't always nearest when
you're talkin' about 'em. Why, Mara; you come down here and catched us in all our dirt! Well
now, we're glad to see you, if we be," said Miss Ruey.

CHAPTER XXXVI

THE SHADOW OF DEATH

It was in truth Mara herself who came and stood in the doorway. She appeared overwearied with
her walk, for her cheeks had a vivid brightness unlike their usual tender pink. Her eyes had,
too, a brilliancy almost painful to look upon. They seemed like ardent fires, in which the
life was slowly burning away.

"Sit down, sit down, little Mara," said Aunt Ruey. "Why, how like a picture you look this mornin',--one
needn't ask you how you do,--it's plain enough that you are pretty well."

"Yes, I am, Aunt Ruey," she answered, sinking into a chair; "only it is warm to-day, and the
sun is so hot, that's all, I believe; but I am very tired."

"So you are now, poor thing," said Miss Ruey. "Roxy, where's my turkey-feather fan? Oh, here
'tis; there, take it, and fan you, child; and maybe you'll have a glass of our spruce beer?"

"Thank you, Aunt Roxy. I brought you some young wintergreen," said Mara, unrolling from her
handkerchief a small knot of those fragrant leaves, which were wilted by the heat.

"Thank you, I'm sure," said Miss Ruey, in delight; "you always fetch something, Mara,--always
would, ever since you could toddle. Roxy and I was jist talkin' about your weddin'. I s'pose
you're gettin' things well along down to your house. Well, here's the beer. I don't hardly
know whether you'll think it worked enough, though. I set it Saturday afternoon, for all Mis'
Twitchell said it was wicked for beer to work Sundays," said Miss Ruey, with a feeble cackle
at her own joke.

"Thank you, Aunt Ruey; it is excellent, as your things always are. I was very thirsty."

"I s'pose you hear from Moses pretty often now," said Aunt Ruey. "How kind o' providential
it happened about his getting that property; he'll be a rich man now; and Mara, you'll come
to grandeur, won't you? Well, I don't know anybody deserves it more,--I r'ally don't. Mis'
Badger was a-sayin' so a-Sunday, and Cap'n Kittridge and all on 'em. I s'pose though we've
got to lose you,--you'll be goin' off to Boston, or New York, or somewhere."

"We can't tell what may happen, Aunt Ruey," said Mara, and there was a slight tremor in her
voice as she spoke.

Miss Roxy, who beyond the first salutations had taken no part in this conversation, had from
time to time regarded Mara over the tops of her spectacles with looks of grave apprehension;
and Mara, looking up, now encountered one of these glances.

"Have you taken the dock and dandelion tea I told you about?" said the wise woman, rather abruptly.

"Yes, Aunt Roxy, I have taken them faithfully for two weeks past."

"And do they seem to set you up any?" said Miss Roxy.

"No, I don't think they do. Grandma thinks I'm better, and grandpa, and I let them think so;
but Miss Roxy, can't you think of something else?"

Miss Roxy laid aside the straw bonnet which she was ripping, and motioned Mara into the outer
room,--the sink-room, as the sisters called it. It was the scullery of their little establishment,--the
place where all dish-washing and clothes-washing was generally performed,--but the boards of
the floor were white as snow, and the place had the odor of neatness. The open door looked
out pleasantly into the deep forest, where the waters of the cove, now at high tide, could
be seen glittering through the trees. Soft moving spots of sunlight fell, checkering the feathery
ferns and small piney tribes of evergreen which ran in ruffling wreaths of green through the
dry, brown matting of fallen pine needles. Birds were singing and calling to each other merrily
from the green shadows of the forest,--everything had a sylvan fullness and freshness of life.
There are moods of mind when the sight of the bloom and freshness of nature affects us painfully,
like the want of sympathy in a dear friend. Mara had been all her days a child of the woods;
her delicate life had grown up in them like one of their own cool shaded flowers; and there
was not a moss, not a fern, not an upspringing thing that waved a leaf or threw forth a flower-bell,
that was not a well-known friend to her; she had watched for years its haunts, known the time
of its coming and its going, studied its shy and veiled habits, and interwoven with its life
each year a portion of her own; and now she looked out into the old mossy woods, with their
wavering spots of sun and shadow, with a yearning pain, as if she wanted help or sympathy to
come from their silent recesses.

She sat down on the clean, scoured door-sill, and took off her straw hat. Her golden-brown
hair was moist with the damps of fatigue, which made it curl and wave in darker little rings
about her forehead; her eyes,--those longing, wistful eyes,--had a deeper pathos of sadness
than ever they had worn before; and her delicate lips trembled with some strong suppressed emotion.

"Aunt Roxy," she said suddenly, "I must speak to somebody. I can't go on and keep up without
telling some one, and it had better be you, because you have skill and experience, and can
help me if anybody can. I've been going on for six months now, taking this and taking that,
and trying to get better, but it's of no use. Aunt Roxy, I feel my life going,--going just
as steadily and as quietly every day as the sand goes out of your hour-glass. I want to live,--oh,
I never wanted to live so much, and I can't,--oh, I know I can't. Can I now,--do you think I can?"

Mara looked imploringly at Miss Roxy. The hard-visaged woman sat down on the wash-bench, and,
covering her worn, stony visage with her checked apron, sobbed aloud.

Mara was confounded. This implacably withered, sensible, dry woman, beneficently impassive
in sickness and sorrow, weeping!--it was awful, as if one of the Fates had laid down her fatal
distaff to weep.

Mara sprung up impulsively and threw her arms round her neck.

"Now don't, Aunt Roxy, don't. I didn't think you would feel bad, or I wouldn't have told you;
but oh, you don't know how hard it is to keep such a secret all to one's self. I have to make
believe all the time that I am feeling well and getting better. I really say what isn't true
every day, because, poor grandmamma, how could I bear to see her distress? and grandpapa,--oh,
I wish people didn't love me so! Why cannot they let me go? And oh, Aunt Roxy, I had a letter
only yesterday, and he is so sure we shall be married this fall,--and I know it cannot be."
Mara's voice gave way in sobs, and the two wept together,--the old grim, gray woman holding
the soft golden head against her breast with a convulsive grasp. "Oh, Aunt Roxy, do you love
me, too?" said Mara. "I didn't know you did."

"Love ye, child?" said Miss Roxy; "yes, I love ye like my life. I ain't one that makes talk
about things, but I do; you come into my arms fust of anybody's in this world,--and except
poor little Hitty, I never loved nobody as I have you."

"Ah! that was your sister, whose grave I have seen," said Mara, speaking in a soothing, caressing
tone, and putting her little thin hand against the grim, wasted cheek, which was now moist
with tears.

"Jes' so, child, she died when she was a year younger than you be; she was not lost, for God
took her. Poor Hitty! her life jest dried up like a brook in August,--jest so. Well, she was
hopefully pious, and it was better for her."

"Did she go like me, Aunt Roxy?" said Mara.

"Well, yes, dear; she did begin jest so, and I gave her everything I could think of; and we
had doctors for her far and near; but 'twasn't to be,--that's all we could say; she was called,
and her time was come."

"Well, now, Aunt Roxy," said Mara, "at any rate, it's a relief to speak out to some one. It's
more than two months that I have felt every day more and more that there was no hope,--life
has hung on me like a weight. I have had to make myself keep up, and make myself do everything,
and no one knows how it has tried me. I am so tired all the time, I could cry; and yet when
I go to bed nights I can't sleep, I lie in such a hot, restless way; and then before morning
I am drenched with cold sweat, and feel so weak and wretched. I force myself to eat, and I
force myself to talk and laugh, and it's all pretense; and it wears me out,--it would be better
if I stopped trying,--it would be better to give up and act as weak as I feel; but how can
I let them know?"

"My dear child," said Aunt Roxy, "the truth is the kindest thing we can give folks in the end.
When folks know jest where they are, why they can walk; you'll all be supported; you must trust
in the Lord. I have been more'n forty years with sick rooms and dyin' beds, and I never knew
it fail that those that trusted in the Lord was brought through."

"Oh, Aunt Roxy, it is so hard for me to give up,--to give up hoping to live. There were a good
many years when I thought I should love to depart,--not that I was really unhappy, but I longed
to go to heaven, though I knew it was selfish, when I knew how lonesome I should leave my friends.
But now, oh, life has looked so bright; I have clung to it so; I do now. I lie awake nights
and pray, and try to give it up and be resigned, and I can't. Is it wicked?"

"Well, it's natur' to want to live," said Miss Roxy. "Life is sweet, and in a gen'l way we
was made to live. Don't worry; the Lord'll bring you right when His time comes. Folks isn't
always supported jest when they want to be, nor as they want to be; but yet they're supported
fust and last. Ef I was to tell you how as I has hope in your case, I shouldn't be a-tellin'
you the truth. I hasn't much of any; only all things is possible with God. If you could kind
o' give it all up and rest easy in His hands, and keep a-doin' what you can,--why, while there's
life there's hope, you know; and if you are to be made well, you will be all the sooner."

"Aunt Roxy, it's all right; I know it's all right. God knows best; He will do what is best;
I know that; but my heart bleeds, and is sore. And when I get his letters,--I got one yesterday,--it
brings it all back again. Everything is going on so well; he says he has done more than all
he ever hoped; his letters are full of jokes, full of spirit. Ah, he little knows,--and how
can I tell him?"

"Child, you needn't yet. You can jest kind o' prepare his mind a little."

"Aunt Roxy, have you spoken of my case to any one,--have you told what you know of me?"

"No, child, I hain't said nothin' more than that you was a little weakly now and then."

"I have such a color every afternoon," said Mara. "Grandpapa talks about my roses, and Captain
Kittridge jokes me about growing so handsome; nobody seems to realize how I feel. I have kept
up with all the strength I had. I have tried to shake it off, and to feel that nothing was
the matter,--really there is nothing much, only this weakness. This morning I thought it would
do me good to walk down here. I remember times when I could ramble whole days in the woods,
but I was so tired before I got half way here that I had to stop a long while and rest. Aunt
Roxy, if you would only tell grandpapa and grandmamma just how things are, and what the danger
is, and let them stop talking to me about wedding things,--for really and truly I am too unwell
to keep up any longer."

"Well, child, I will," said Miss Roxy. "Your grandfather will be supported, and hold you up,
for he's one of the sort as has the secret of the Lord,--I remember him of old. Why, the day
your father and mother was buried he stood up and sung old China, and his face was wonderful
to see. He seemed to be standin' with the world under his feet and heaven opening. He's a master
Christian, your grandfather is; and now you jest go and lie down in the little bedroom, and
rest you a bit, and by and by, in the cool of the afternoon, I'll walk along home with you."

Miss Roxy opened the door of a little room, whose white fringy window-curtains were blown inward
by breezes from the blue sea, and laid the child down to rest on a clean sweet-smelling bed
with as deft and tender care as if she were not a bony, hard-visaged, angular female, in a
black mohair frisette.

She stopped a moment wistfully before a little profile head, of a kind which resembles a black
shadow on a white ground. "That was Hitty!" she said.

Mara had often seen in the graveyard a mound inscribed to this young person, and heard traditionally
of a young and pretty sister of Miss Roxy who had died very many years before. But the grave
was overgrown with blackberry-vines, and gray moss had grown into the crevices of the slab
which served for a tombstone, and never before that day had she heard Miss Roxy speak of her.
Miss Roxy took down the little black object and handed it to Mara. "You can't tell much by
that, but she was a most beautiful creatur'. Well, it's all best as it is." Mara saw nothing
but a little black shadow cast on white paper, yet she was affected by the perception how bright,
how beautiful, was the image in the memory of that seemingly stern, commonplace woman, and
how of all that in her mind's eye she saw and remembered, she could find no outward witness
but this black block. "So some day my friends will speak of me as a distant shadow," she said,
as with a sigh she turned her head on the pillow.

Miss Roxy shut the door gently as she went out, and betrayed the unwonted rush of softer feelings
which had come over her only by being more dictatorial and commanding than usual in her treatment
of her sister, who was sitting in fidgety curiosity to know what could have been the subject
of the private conference. These items are in general: Religious education,
German language, together with notice of the Patriotic classics Later on arithmetic, algebra, geometry,
geography, history, physiography, which Cosmography, natural history and physics within itself,
preparing philosophical sciences; also French, also for drawing the future theologians Hebrew language,
and Calligraphy. How little this Kenntisse be neglected, it follows from the simple Account
that if we place the four latter Unterrichtsgegenstaende not stop, between those first mentioned
and the ancient languages ​​of instruction in all the time classes exactly is shared equally,
and the articles mentioned but factored in, falls on the study of ancient languages, not half, but
only two of five parts of the whole class.

In this first study bygone years is the main thing was fixed up and in Gang come, the second
year of qualification and training to individual Branches, such as the Anfangsgruende physical
sciences, can be considered closer, and the highest of all grace his royal majesty us about how
we trust Confidently look forward to servicing, set .-- Also what in the external device and propriety
still going on - the Muses have few needs in themselves and are not spoiled - what for the operation
conditions of the external disciplinary supervision is still required - and the Nature of the
local character and interest of the parents for their children's well-seclusion makes this concern
- and the like Nebenbeduerfnisse see their remedy already the road.

The general effects of the very highest gracious arrangements, the
gracious Venetian hinterland Supervision and operation of the Police
General Commissioner Koenig and the same according to Efforts of the
teachers in this first year has the audience through the public examinations
had the opportunity to assess .-- The last act, which we beschliesen
the same, this public ceremonies by which the Government of its institutions
still gracious the moment of honor and the public testimony of satisfaction
with the progress will add to the student and student.

A part of you, gentlemen, has been a feature in the most gracious satisfaction get the permission
to be allowed to obtain the University, you neglected to notice that the eye the government
is open about you, keep for yourself convinced that it is always open about It will be that
you are applying the same accountability from their years of study and to put the gracious
granted access to the royal institutions have that in our Fatherland
your talents and applications open to any career, but only for the
merit is feasible.

Put thus the work that you have started here, in the University bravely on. Most of you leave
for the first time her father's house, and as you detaches from the heart before your mother
when you were in the first life, they dissolve now into the life of your family by the step in
the progress the independence to do. The youth vorwaerts looks, and you forget to look back
of gratitude, love and duty to your parents never.

The judgments of the teachers on each of all students would be the same in the presence of all
Teachers and other students of the class read, this is censorship, on request, the Parents
in writing. The short result of this ruling is the progress of space, the each according to
their overall progress among schoolmates of his class by the consulting the teacher and receives
confirmation of the Rector. The order of these places is a Testimony of what has made each
of you already, it is here, and then publicly published by the pressure.

Solenne

is the distinction of those who distinguished themselves among their schoolmates EXCELLENT and those
who have the reward and the prize from the hands of His Excellency the Lord Genaeralkommissaers
now awaited. Receive it as a sign of satisfaction with what they have since contributed, and
still more as an encouragement for their future behavior - as an honor you widerfaehrt, but still
more than a new claim to its continued effort to as a higher law, your parents, your teachers,
the country and the very highest government purchased for you.


Now if poor Miss Roxy had been like you, my dear young lady--if her soul had been encased in
a round, rosy, and comely body, and looked out of tender blue eyes shaded by golden hair, probably
the grief and love she felt would have shown themselves only in bursts of feeling most graceful
to see, and engaging the sympathy of all; but this same soul, imprisoned in a dry, angular
body, stiff and old, and looking out under beetling eyebrows, over withered high cheek-bones,
could only utter itself by a passionate tempest--unlovely utterance of a lovely impulse--dear
only to Him who sees with a Father's heart the real beauty of spirits. It is our firm faith
that bright solemn angels in celestial watchings were frequent guests in the homely room of
the two sisters, and that passing by all accidents of age and poverty, withered skins, bony
features, and grotesque movements and shabby clothing, they saw more real beauty there than
in many a scented boudoir where seeming angels smile in lace and satin.

"Ruey," said Miss Roxy, in a more composed voice, while her hard, bony hands still trembled
with excitement, "this 'ere's been on my mind a good while. I hain't said nothin' to nobody,
but I've seen it a-comin'. I always thought that child wa'n't for a long life. Lives is run
in different lengths, and nobody can say what's the matter with some folks, only that their
thread's run out; there's more on one spool and less on another. I thought, when we laid Hitty
in the grave, that I shouldn't never set my heart on nothin' else--but we can't jest say we
will or we won't. Ef we are to be sorely afflicted at any time, the Lord lets us set our hearts
before we know it. This 'ere's a great affliction to me, Ruey, but I must jest shoulder my
cross and go through with it. I'm goin' down to-night to tell the old folks, and to make arrangements
so that the poor little lamb may have the care she needs. She's been a-keepin' up so long,
'cause she dreaded to let 'em know, but this 'ere has got to be looked right in the face, and
I hope there'll be grace given to do it."

CHAPTER XXXVII

THE VICTORY

Meanwhile Mara had been lying in the passive calm of fatigue and exhaustion, her eyes fixed
on the window, where, as the white curtain drew inward, she could catch glimpses of the bay.
Gradually her eyelids fell, and she dropped into that kind of half-waking doze, when the outer
senses are at rest, and the mind is all the more calm and clear for their repose. In such hours
a spiritual clairvoyance often seems to lift for a while the whole stifling cloud that lies
like a confusing mist over the problem of life, and the soul has sudden glimpses of things
unutterable which lie beyond. Then the narrow straits, that look so full of rocks and quicksands,
widen into a broad, clear passage, and one after another, rosy with a celestial dawn, and ringing
silver bells of gladness, the isles of the blessed lift themselves up on the horizon, and the
soul is flooded with an atmosphere of light and joy. As the burden of Christian fell off at
the cross and was lost in the sepulchre, so in these hours of celestial vision the whole weight
of life's anguish is lifted, and passes away like a dream; and the soul, seeing the boundless
ocean of Divine love, wherein all human hopes and joys and sorrows lie so tenderly upholden,
comes and casts the one little drop of its personal will and personal existence with gladness
into that Fatherly depth. Henceforth, with it, God and Saviour is no more word of mine and
thine, for in that hour the child of earth feels himself heir of all things: "All things are
yours, and ye are Christ's, and Christ is God's."

       *       *       *       *       *

"The child is asleep," said Miss Roxy, as she stole on tiptoe into the room when their noon
meal was prepared. A plate and knife had been laid for her, and they had placed for her a tumbler
of quaint old engraved glass, reputed to have been brought over from foreign parts, and which
had been given to Miss Roxy as her share in the effects of the mysterious Mr. Swadkins. Tea
also was served in some egg-like India china cups, which saw the light only on the most high
and festive occasions.

"Hadn't you better wake her?" said Miss Ruey; "a cup of hot tea would do her so much good."

Miss Ruey could conceive of few sorrows or ailments which would not be materially better for
a cup of hot tea. If not the very elixir of life, it was indeed the next thing to it.

"Well," said Miss Roxy, after laying her hand for a moment with great gentleness on that of
the sleeping girl, "she don't wake easy, and she's tired; and she seems to be enjoying it so.
The Bible says, 'He giveth his beloved sleep,' and I won't interfere. I've seen more good come
of sleep than most things in my nursin' experience," said Miss Roxy, and she shut the door
gently, and the two sisters sat down to their noontide meal.

"How long the child does sleep!" said Miss Ruey as the old clock struck four.

"It was too much for her, this walk down here," said Aunt Roxy. "She's been doin' too much
for a long time. I'm a-goin' to put an end to that. Well, nobody needn't say Mara hain't got
resolution. I never see a little thing have more. She always did have, when she was the leastest
little thing. She was always quiet and white and still, but she did whatever she sot out to."

At this moment, to their surprise, the door opened, and Mara came in, and both sisters were
struck with a change that had passed over her. It was more than the result of mere physical
repose. Not only had every sign of weariness and bodily languor vanished, but there was about
her an air of solemn serenity and high repose that made her seem, as Miss Ruey afterwards said,
"like an angel jest walked out of the big Bible."

"Why, dear child, how you have slept, and how bright and rested you look," said Miss Ruey.

"I am rested," said Mara; "oh how much! And happy," she added, laying her little hand on Miss
Roxy's shoulder. "I thank you, dear friend, for all your kindness to me. I am sorry I made
you feel so sadly; but now you mustn't feel so any more, for all is well--yes, all is well.
I see now that it is so. I have passed beyond sorrow--yes, forever."

Soft-hearted Miss Ruey here broke into audible sobbing, hiding her face in her hands, and looking
like a tumbled heap of old faded calico in a state of convulsion.

"Dear Aunt Ruey, you mustn't," said Mara, with a voice of gentle authority. "We mustn't any
of us feel so any more. There is no harm done, no real evil is coming, only a good which we
do not understand. I am perfectly satisfied--perfectly at rest now. I was foolish and weak
to feel as I did this morning, but I shall not feel so any more. I shall comfort you all. Is
it anything so dreadful for me to go to heaven? How little while it will be before you all
come to me! Oh, how little--little while!"

"I told you, Mara, that you'd be supported in the Lord's time," said Miss Roxy, who watched
her with an air of grave and solemn attention. "First and last, folks allers is supported;
but sometimes there is a long wrestlin'. The Lord's give you the victory early."

"Victory!" said the girl, speaking as in a deep muse, and with a mysterious brightness in her
eyes; "yes, that is the word--it is a victory--no other word expresses it. Come, Aunt Roxy,
we will go home. I am not afraid now to tell grandpapa and grandmamma. God will care for them;
He will wipe away all tears."

"Well, though, you mus'n't think of goin' till you've had a cup of tea," said Aunt Ruey, wiping
her eyes. "I've kep' the tea-pot hot by the fire, and you must eat a little somethin', for
it's long past dinner-time."

"Is it?" said Mara. "I had no idea I had slept so long--how thoughtful and kind you are!"

"I do wish I could only do more for you," said Miss Ruey. "I don't seem to get reconciled no
ways; it seems dreffle hard--dreffle; but I'm glad you can feel so;" and the good old soul
proceeded to press upon the child not only the tea, which she drank with feverish relish, but
every hoarded dainty which their limited housekeeping commanded.

It was toward sunset before Miss Roxy and Mara started on their walk homeward. Their way lay
over the high stony ridge which forms the central part of the island. On one side, through
the pines, they looked out into the boundless blue of the ocean, and on the other caught glimpses
of Harpswell Bay as it lay glorified in the evening light. The fresh cool breeze blowing landward
brought with it an invigorating influence, which Mara felt through all her feverish frame.
She walked with an energy to which she had long been a stranger. She said little, but there
was a sweetness, a repose, in her manner contrasting singularly with the passionate melancholy
which she had that morning expressed.

Miss Roxy did not interrupt her meditations. The nature of her profession had rendered her
familiar with all the changing mental and physical phenomena that attend the development of
disease and the gradual loosening of the silver cords of a present life. Certain well-understood
phrases everywhere current among the mass of the people in New England, strikingly tell of
the deep foundations of religious earnestness on which its daily life is built. I need these objects here to name only:
their size, their mode of treatment, the orderly sequence of stages in the same and in their
relationships with others, the exercises that are angeknuepft to them in the auszuteilenden
printed message can be seen closer. The roughest and most
matter-of-fact minds have a craving for the ideal somewhere; and often this craving, forbidden
by uncomeliness and ungenial surroundings from having any personal history of its own, attaches
itself to the fortune of some other one in a kind of strange disinterestedness. Some one young
and beautiful is to live the life denied to them--to be the poem and the romance; it is the
young mistress of the poor black slave--the pretty sister of the homely old spinster--or the
clever son of the consciously ill-educated father. Something of this unconscious personal investment
had there been on the part of Miss Roxy in the nursling whose singular loveliness she had watched
for so many years, and on whose fair virgin orb she had marked the growing shadow of a fatal
eclipse, and as she saw her glowing and serene, with that peculiar brightness that she felt
came from no earthly presence or influence, she could scarcely keep the tears from her honest
gray eyes.

When they arrived at the door of the house, Zephaniah Pennel was sitting in it, looking toward
the sunset.

"Why, reely," he said, "Miss Roxy, we thought you must a-run away with Mara; she's been gone
a'most all day."

"I expect she's had enough to talk with Aunt Roxy about," said Mrs. Pennel. "Girls goin' to
get married have a deal to talk about, what with patterns and contrivin' and makin' up. But
come in, Miss Roxy; we're glad to see you."

Mara turned to Miss Roxy, and gave her a look of peculiar meaning. "Aunt Roxy," she said, "you
must tell them what we have been talking about to-day;" and then she went up to her room and
shut the door.

Miss Roxy accomplished her task with a matter-of-fact distinctness to which her business-like
habits of dealing with sickness and death had accustomed her, yet with a sympathetic tremor
in her voice which softened the hard directness of her words. "You can take her over to Portland,
if you say so, and get Dr. Wilson's opinion," she said, in conclusion. "It's best to have all
done that can be, though in my mind the case is decided."

The silence that fell between the three was broken at last by the sound of a light footstep
descending the stairs, and Mara entered among them.

She came forward and threw her arms round Mrs. Pennel's neck, and kissed her; and then turning,
she nestled down in the arms of her old grandfather, as she had often done in the old days
of childhood, and laid her hand upon his shoulder. There was no sound for a few moments but
one of suppressed weeping; but she did not weep--she lay with bright calm eyes, as if looking
upon some celestial vision.

"It is not so very sad," she said at last, in a gentle voice, "that I should go there; you
are going, too, and grandmamma; we are all going; and we shall be forever with the Lord. Think
of it! think of it!"

Many were the words spoken in that strange communing; and before Miss Roxy went away, a calmness
of solemn rest had settled down on all.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

OPEN VISION

As Miss Roxy was leaving the dwelling of the Pennels, she met Sally Kittridge coming toward
the house, laughing and singing, as was her wont. She raised her long, lean forefinger with
a gesture of warning.

"What's the matter now, Aunt Roxy? You look as solemn as a hearse."

"None o' your jokin' now, Miss Sally; there is such a thing as serious things in this 'ere
world of our'n, for all you girls never seems to know it."

"What is the matter, Aunt Roxy?--has anything happened?--is anything the matter with Mara?"

"Matter enough. I've known it a long time," said Miss Roxy. "She's been goin' down for three
months now; and she's got that on her that will carry her off before the year's out."

"Pshaw, Aunt Roxy! how lugubriously you old nurses always talk! I hope now you haven't been
filling Mara's head with any such notions--people can be frightened into anything."

"Sally Kittridge, don't be a-talkin' of what you don't know nothin' about! It stands to reason
that a body that was bearin' the heat and burden of the day long before you was born or thought
on in this world should know a thing or two more'n you. Why, I've laid you on your stomach
and trotted you to trot up the wind many a day, and I was pretty experienced then, and it ain't
likely that I'm a-goin' to take sa'ce from you. Mara Pennel is a gal as has every bit and grain
as much resolution and ambition as you have, for all you flap your wings and crow so much louder,
and she's one of the close-mouthed sort, that don't make no talk, and she's been a-bearin'
up and bearin' up, and comin' to me on the sly for strengthenin' things. She's took camomile
and orange-peel, and snake-root and boneset, and dash-root and dandelion--and there hain't
nothin' done her no good. She told me to-day she couldn't keep up no longer, and I've been
a-tellin' Mis' Pennel and her grand'ther. I tell you it has been a solemn time; and if you're
goin' in, don't go in with none o' your light triflin' ways, 'cause 'as vinegar upon nitre
is he that singeth songs on a heavy heart,' the Scriptur' says."

"Oh, Miss Roxy, do tell me truly," said Sally, much moved. "What do you think is the matter
with Mara? His greatest admiration was the Architecture,
sculpture and painting of the ancient world. The Romanesque and Gothic art, he did not love, but
it can be found in a sketchbook Basel two statues of the Freiburg Cathedral and he praised the
author of these lines the old glass paintings of Sta. Croce in Florence. His special Love has long
been the Italian Quattrocento to the young Leonardo, still more, and more and more, he estimated,
but since the Dutch van Eyck and the ancient Germans, including Matthias Grünewald. It can be found
in his works also reminiscences of Raphael, Titian and Rubens. Michelangelo was disliked him,
but on occasion when the talk on this was, he could unprepared from memory, a characteristic
figure of this Master, recognizable to all who design on the marble table. From Titian's "Heavenly
and earthly Love is "the naked statue of a little picture taken over. At the Battle of the Amazons
by Rubens in Munich, rejects the first of his Roman battles (Plate 87). It can be found But
in his work and the unmistakable evidence that he was himself a Michelangelo da Caravaggio and
Guido Reni is considered accurate. From this it has the shape of Venus in Dresden on his own
Venus (Plate 12) recovered. Very different course had his relationship the landscapes of the 17th
Tern Century, which, as coming from the north, Italy in its second home have found, especially at
Dughet and Gaspard Poussin. Some of his creations from the first Roman times look as if these
two next to Titian's actual had been teachers. Above all, however, was Rubens next Grünewald for him
the painter of painters.
 She was writing with an expression of tender calm, and sometimes
stopping to consult an open letter that Sally knew came from Moses.

So fair and sweet and serene she looked that a painter might have chosen her for an embodiment
of twilight, and one might not be surprised to see a clear star shining out over her forehead.
Yet in the tender serenity of the face there dwelt a pathos of expression that spoke of struggles
and sufferings past, like the traces of tears on the face of a restful infant that has grieved
itself to sleep.

Sally came softly in on tiptoe, threw her arms around her, and kissed her, with a half laugh,
then bursting into tears, sobbed upon her shoulder.

"Dear Sally, what is the matter?" said Mara, looking up.

"Oh, Mara, I just met Miss Roxy, and she told me"--

Sally only sobbed passionately.

"It is very sad to make all one's friends so unhappy," said Mara, in a soothing voice, stroking
Sally's hair. "You don't know how much I have suffered dreading it. Sally, it is a long time
since I began to expect and dread and fear. My time of anguish was then--then when I first
felt that it could be possible that I should not live after all. There was a long time I dared
not even think of it; I could not even tell such a fear to myself; and I did far more than
I felt able to do to convince myself that I was not weak and failing. I have been often to
Miss Roxy, and once, when nobody knew it, I went to a doctor in Brunswick, but then I was afraid
to tell him half, lest he should say something about me, and it should get out; and so I went
on getting worse and worse, and feeling every day as if I could not keep up, and yet afraid
to lie down for fear grandmamma would suspect me. But this morning it was pleasant and bright,
and something came over me that said I must tell somebody, and so, as it was cool and pleasant,
I walked up to Aunt Roxy's and told her. I thought, you know, that she knew the most, and would
feel it the least; but oh, Sally, she has such a feeling heart, and loves me so; it is strange
she should."

"Is it?" said Sally, tightening her clasp around Mara's neck; and then with a hysterical shadow
of gayety she said, "I suppose you think that you are such a hobgoblin that nobody could be
expected to do that. After all, though, I should have as soon expected roses to bloom in a
juniper clump as love from Aunt Roxy."

"Well, she does love me," said Mara. "No mother could be kinder. Poor thing, she really sobbed
and cried when I told her. I was very tired, and she told me she would take care of me, and
tell grandpapa and grandmamma,--that had been lying on my heart as such a dreadful thing to
do,--and she laid me down to rest on her bed, and spoke so lovingly to me! I wish you could
have seen her. And while I lay there, I fell into a strange, sweet sort of rest. I can't describe
it; but since then everything has been changed. I wish I could tell any one how I saw things then."

"Do try to tell me, Mara," said Sally, "for I need comfort too, if there is any to be had."

"Well, then, I lay on the bed, and the wind drew in from the sea and just lifted the window-curtain,
and I could see the sea shining and hear the waves making a pleasant little dash, and then
my head seemed to swim. I thought I was walking out by the pleasant shore, and everything seemed
so strangely beautiful, and grandpapa and grandmamma were there, and Moses had come home, and
you were there, and we were all so happy. And then I felt a sort of strange sense that something
was coming--some great trial or affliction--and I groaned and clung to Moses, and asked him
to put his arm around me and hold me.

"Then it seemed to be not by our seashore that this was happening, but by the Sea of Galilee,
just as it tells about it in the Bible, and there were fishermen mending their nets, and men
sitting counting their money, and I saw Jesus come walking along, and heard him say to this
one and that one, 'Leave all and follow me,' and it seemed that the moment he spoke they did
it, and then he came to me, and I felt his eyes in my very soul, and he said, 'Wilt thou leave
all and follow me?' I cannot tell now what a pain I felt--what an anguish. 

The pictures on the walls were of course interesting in itself. Their numbers alone would any
incoming viewer share greatly astonished and for a considerable time mouth open staring wandering
on all four walls, in all four quarters. Had he recovered from his surprise, so he could begin
to count the number or at least approximately appreciated. Both, however, was difficult, because the
images and pictures under glass and frame covered hardly amount to be calculated in the walls from
top to bottom, that is as far down as it was only possible. All types and formats in engraving,
steel engraving, lithography and woodcuts, all objects and situations in heaven and hell on
earth, in the Water, fire and air, black or colored.

Many Ramberg'sche Chodowiecki'sche and artistic creations, countless scenes from the life of Frederick
Second and Napoleon the First, the three allied monarchs in three different views at the Leipzig field
of battle, the snake hanging on palm tree, on which the well-known Negro climbs up to her to pull
the skin, scenes from the Corsair, "a poem by Lord Byron "fashion photos, a portrait of Washington,
a portrait of Queen Mathilde of Denmark and Count Struensee and lost among all the colorful,
curious worthlessness, between two street scenes from the year 1848, a real old Dürer'scher engraving:
Melancholia!

"God will care for him," said Mara; "oh, I am sure of it; He is love itself, and He values
his love in us, and He never, never would have brought such a trial, if it had not been the
true and only way to our best good. We shall not shed one needless tear. Yes, if God loved
us so that he spared not his own Son, he will surely give us all the good here that we possibly
can have without risking our eternal happiness."

"You are writing to Moses, now?" said Sally.

"Yes, I am answering his letter; it is so full of spirit and life and hope--but all hope in
this world--all, all earthly, as much as if there was no God and no world to come. Sally, perhaps
our Father saw that I could not have strength to live with him and keep my faith. I should
be drawn by him earthward instead of drawing him heavenward; and so this is in mercy to us both."

"And are you telling him the whole truth, Mara?"

"Not all, no," said Mara; "he could not bear it at once. I only tell him that my health is
failing, and that my friends are seriously alarmed, and then I speak as if it were doubtful,
in my mind, what the result might be."

"I don't think you can make him feel as you do. Moses Pennel has a tremendous will, and he
never yielded to any one. You bend, Mara, like the little blue harebells, and so the storm
goes over you; but he will stand up against it, and it will wrench and shatter him. I am afraid,
instead of making him better, it will only make him bitter and rebellious."

"He has a Father in heaven who knows how to care for him," said Mara. "I am persuaded--I feel
certain that he will be blessed in the end; not perhaps in the time and way I should have chosen,
but in the end. I have always felt that he was mine, ever since he came a little shipwrecked
boy to me--a little girl. And now I have given him up to his Saviour and my Saviour--to his
God and my God--and I am perfectly at peace. All will be well."

Mara spoke with a look of such solemn, bright assurance as made her, in the dusky, golden twilight,
seem like some serene angel sent down to comfort, rather than a hapless mortal just wrenched
from life and hope.

Sally rose up and kissed her silently. "Mara," she said, "I shall come to-morrow to see what
I can do for you. I will not interrupt you now. Good-by, dear."

       *       *       *       *       *

There are no doubt many, who have followed this history so long as it danced like a gay little
boat over sunny waters, and who would have followed it gayly to the end, had it closed with
ringing of marriage-bells, who turn from it indignantly, when they see that its course runs
through the dark valley. This, they say, is an imposition, a trick upon our feelings. We want
to read only stories which end in joy and prosperity.

But have we then settled it in our own mind that there is no such thing as a fortunate issue
in a history which does not terminate in the way of earthly success and good fortune? Are we
Christians or heathen? It is now eighteen centuries since, as we hold, the "highly favored
among women" was pronounced to be one whose earthly hopes were all cut off in the blossom,--whose
noblest and dearest in the morning of his days went down into the shadows of death.

Was Mary the highly-favored among women, and was Jesus indeed the blessed,--or was the angel
mistaken? If they were these, if we are Christians, it ought to be a settled and established
habit of our souls to regard something else as prosperity than worldly success and happy marriages.
That life is a success which, like the life of Jesus, in its beginning, middle, and close,
has borne a perfect witness to the truth and the highest form of truth. It is true that God
has given to us, and inwoven in our nature a desire for a perfection and completeness made
manifest to our senses in this mortal life. To see the daughter bloom into youth and womanhood,
the son into manhood, to see them marry and become themselves parents, and gradually ripen
and develop in the maturities of middle life, gradually wear into a sunny autumn, and so be
gathered in fullness of time to their fathers,--such, one says, is the programme which God
has made us to desire; such the ideal of happiness which he has interwoven with our nerves,
and for which our heart and our flesh crieth out; to which every stroke of a knell is a violence,
and every thought of an early death is an abhorrence.

But the life of Christ and his mother sets the foot on this lower ideal of happiness, and teaches
us that there is something higher. His ministry began with declaring, "Blessed are they that
mourn." It has been well said that prosperity was the blessing of the Old Testament, and adversity
of the New. Christ came to show us a nobler style of living and bearing; and so far as he had
a personal and earthly life, he buried it as a corner-stone on which to erect a new immortal
style of architecture.

Of his own, he had nothing, neither houses, nor lands, nor family ties, nor human hopes, nor
earthly sphere of success; and as a human life, it was all a sacrifice and a defeat. He was
rejected by his countrymen, whom the passionate anguish of his love and the unwearied devotion
of his life could not save from an awful doom. He was betrayed by weak friends, prevailed against
by slanderers, overwhelmed with an ignominious death in the morning of youth, and his mother
stood by his cross, and she was the only woman whom God ever called highly favored in this world.

