And as it happened this act did not prevent Paula from finding March. The tyrant who looked
after her hair had given her an appointment that morning at ten. So, a little before that hour
and just as March was finishing off his job, she came down, dressed for the street. She came
into the drawing-room and with good-humored derision, smiled at him.

"I knew you'd come and do it," she told him.

"It isn't going to be so bad," he answered. "Moszkowski, Chaminade,--quite a little of Chopin
for that matter,--will go pretty well on it."

"Did you bring my songs?" she asked.

From the chair that he had thrown his blouse upon, he produced a flat package neatly wrapped
in brown paper. And as she went over to the window with it, tearing the wrappers away as she
walked, he went back to his work at the piano.

"Don't do that," she said, as he struck a chord or two. "I can't read if you do." But almost
instantly she added with a laugh, "Oh, all right, go ahead. I can't read this anyway. Why,
it's frightful!" She came swiftly toward the piano and stood the big flat quires of score paper
on the rack. "Show me how this goes," she commanded, but he pushed back a little with a gesture
almost of fright.

"No," he protested sharply. "I can't. I can't begin to play that stuff."

She remained standing beside his shoulder, looking at the score.

"They're strange words," she said, and began reading them to herself, half aloud, haltingly.

"Walt Whitman," he told her. "They're all out of a poem called Sea-Drift."

She went on reading, now audibly, now with a mere silent movement of the lips, half puzzled,
half entranced, and catching--despite her protest that she could not read the music,--some
intimations of its intense strange beauty.

"' ...do I not see my love fluttering out among the breakers?... Loud I call to you, my love
... Surely you must know who is here ... O rising stars! Perhaps the one I want so much will
rise ... with some of you ... O trembling throat! Sound clearer through the atmosphere ...'"

With a shake of the head, like one trying to stop the weaving of a spell, she turned the pages
back to the beginning.

"This means Novelli," she said. "I'll get him. I'll get him this morning. He's the best accompanist
in Chicago. We'll go to work on them and when we've got them presentable, I'll let you know
and sing them to you. Where do you live?"

He got up for a paper and pencil and wrote out an address and a telephone number. She was still
staring at that first page of the score when he brought it back to her.

"I've never heard any of those songs myself," he told her.

At that she looked around at him, looked steadily into his face for a moment and then her eyes
filled with tears. She reached out both hands and took him by the shoulders. "Well, you're
going to hear them this time, my dear," she said. As she moved away, she added in a more matter-of-fact
tone, "Just as soon as we can work them up, in a few days perhaps. I'll let you know."

CHAPTER III

THE PEACE BASIS

There were four in their party but it was only with Alfred Baldwin that Mary Wollaston danced.
The other man--Black his name was, and he came from Iowa City or Dubuque or thereabouts--devoted
all his attention to Baldwin's wife. He was very rich, very much married--out in Iowa--and
whenever he made his annual business trip to New York, he liked to have a real New York time.
They had dined together at the Baldwins' apartment with a vague idea of going afterward to
see a play of Baldwin's then drawing toward the close of a successful season's run. But dinner
had been late and they had lingered too long over it to make this excursion worth while. It
had amused both Mary and Christabel to discover Black's secret hope of being taken back-stage
and introduced to the beautiful young star who was playing in the piece and taking her out
to supper with them. He didn't know that Baldwin hated her with a perfect hatred and never
got within speaking distance of her if he could help it.

So, by way of making up to the western visitor for his disappointment they taxied up-town about
ten o'clock to the brightest, loudest and most fantastically expensive of New York's dancing
restaurants. Once there, he took command of the party; confidently addressed the head waiter
by his first name and began "opening wine" with a lavish hand. He was flirting in what he conceived
to be quite a desperate and depraved manner with Christabel, and what enhanced his pleasure
in this entertainment was that he did it all right under the nose of the husband, who obviously
didn't mind a bit. He would talk eloquently when he got home, with carefully selected corroborative
details, about the wickedness of New York.

Mary liked the Baldwins. Christabel was on the executive committee of their Fund and one of
the best and steadiest and most sensible supporters it had. She was a real person. Baldwin,
himself, whom she hadn't known so long nor so well and had regarded from afar as a rather formidable
celebrity, proved on better acquaintance, though witty and sophisticated, to be as comfortable
as an old glove. Altogether they were the nearest thing to friends that her long sojourn in
New York had given her. She had sometimes thought rather wildly of putting them to the test
and seeing whether they were real friends or not.

To-night, though, even they irritated her. She wished Christabel would snub that appalling
bounder, Black, as he deserved. How could she go on playing up to him like that! As for Baldwin,
she wished he would just dance with her and not talk. She supposed that the amount of alcohol
they had consumed since seven o'clock had something to do with his verging upon the vein, the
Broadway sentimental vein, that he had got started on and couldn't seem to let alone.

It wasn't new to Mary. Indeed it was a phenomenon familiarly associated in her mind with Forty-second
Street restaurants and late hours and strong drink, particularly gin. The crocodile tear for
the good woman who stayed at home; who didn't know; who never, please God! should know. The
tribute to flower-like innocence--the paper flower-like innocence of the stage ingenue!

Baldy wasn't as bad as that, couldn't ever conceivably be as bad as that, no matter how much
he had had to drink. Perhaps, if she had not been hypersensitive to-night,--in an impossible
mood for any sort of party really--she might have failed to detect the familiar strain in his
sensible, rather fatherly talk. As it was, she thought she did detect it and it made her want
to scream--or swear!

