GOLD, SPORT, AND COFFEE PLANTING IN MYSORE

WITH CHAPTERS ON

COFFEE PLANTING IN COORG, THE MYSORE REPRESENTATIVE ASSEMBLY, THE INDIAN CONGRESS, CASTE, AND
THE INDIAN SILVER QUESTION

BEING THE 38 YEARS' EXPERIENCES OF A MYSORE PLANTER

BY

ROBERT H. ELLIOT

AUTHOR OF "EXPERIENCES OF A PLANTER," "WRITTEN ON THEIR FOREHEADS," ETC.

WITH A MAP IN COLOURS

WESTMINSTER

1898.

DEDICATION.

    I have much pleasure in dedicating this book to my friend SIR K.
    SHESHADRI IYER, K.C.S.I., Dewan of Mysore, and trust that it may
    be useful in making more fully known the resources of the State
    whose affairs he has for many years so wisely and ably
    administered.

PREFACE.

In the year 1871 I published "The Experiences of a Planter in the Jungles of Mysore," and had
intended to bring out a new edition of it, but, from various causes, the project was delayed,
and when I at last took the matter in hand, I found that so many things had happened since
1871 that it was necessary to write a new book. In this, hardly anything of the "Experiences"
has been reproduced, except a very few natural history notes and the chapter on Caste, a subject
to which I would particularly call the attention of those interested in Indian missions.

I have been much assisted by informants too numerous for mention here, and can only allude
to those who have most conspicuously aided me. Amongst these I am much indebted to my friend
Sir K. Sheshadri Iyer, K.C.S.I., Dewan of Mysore, for access given me to information in the
possession of the Government, and for returns specially prepared for the book. From my friends
Mr. Graham Anderson and Mr. Brooke Mockett, two of the most able and experienced planters in
Mysore, I have derived much information and assistance. I am particularly obliged to my friend
Dr. Voelcker[1] for many valuable hints, and the chapter on manures has had the advantage of
being read by him. For information as regards the history of coffee in Coorg I am much indebted
to Mr. Meynell, who represents the large interests of Messrs. Matheson and Co. in that province,
and indeed, without his aid, I could not at all have done full justice to the subject. To Mr.
Grey, manager of the Nundydroog mine, I am indebted for information as regards the gold mines,
and for the kind assistance he in many ways afforded me when I visited them last January. I
am also obliged to Colonel Grant, Superintendent of the Mysore Revenue, Survey and Settlement
Department, for information as regards game, and the proposed Game Act for Mysore.

I had intended to add a chapter on the cultivation of cardamoms and pepper, but have not done
so, because, for the want of recent information from those specially engaged in these cultivations,
I could not feel confident of doing full justice to the subject. I may, however, say that as
regards cardamoms, I have good reason for supposing that there is not much to be added to the
chapter on them which appeared in the "Experiences."

Though I have collected many experiences, I am of course aware that many more remain to be
collected, and I should feel particularly obliged if planters and those who have any experiences
to give me (natural history and sporting information would be very welcome) would be kind enough
to do so. These I would propose to incorporate in an improved edition, which I look forward
to bringing out when a sufficient amount of additional information has been collected. If those
who have any information to give, suggestions to make, or criticisms to offer, would be kind
enough to communicate with me, an improved edition might be brought out which would be highly
valuable to all tropical agriculturists, and all those interested in the various subjects on
which I have written.

My Indian address is Bartchinhulla, Saklaspur, Mysore State, and home address, Clifton Park,
Kelso, Roxburghshire.

ROBERT H. ELLIOT.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Dr. Voelcker, Consulting Chemist to the Royal Agricultural Society of England, was, by
the permission of the Society, employed for upwards of a year by the Government in India; and
his "Report on the Improvement of Indian Agriculture" is an elaborate, work, of upwards of
400 pages, and contains a large body of carefully digested information, remarks, and opinions
which will be of great value to the Government, and of much practical value to planters, and
all tropical agriculturists.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.--INTRODUCTORY.

Myself and the route to Mysore in 1855.

The pioneer planters of Southern Mysore.

The life of a planter by no means a dull one.

Effects of English capital on the progress of the people and the
    finances of the State.

The value, in times of famine, of European settlers.

A deferred native message of thanks to the English public.

The causes that have led to an increase of famine and scarcities.

Measures to promote the digging of wells by the people.

A line of railway from Mysore to the western coast sanctioned.

Wanted, land tenures which will promote well digging and other
    irrigation works.

The late Dewan's opinions in favour of a fixed land tax.

Evidences of irrigation works made by occupiers being promoted by
    a fixed land tax.

Famine question of great importance to settlers in India.

The number of European and native coffee plantations in Mysore.

Probable annual value of coffee produced in Mysore. Manufactures
    in India.

Manufactures in Mysore.

Endeavours by the Dewan to develop the iron wealth of the
    province.

"The Mysore and Coorg Directory." Value of the Dewan's annual
    addresses in the Representative Assembly.

The Dewan's efforts to promote improvements of all kinds.

European settlers favourably received by officials of all
    classes.

Hints as to representing any matter to a Government official.

Native officials are polite and obliging.

CHAPTER II.--THE SCENERY AND WATERFALLS OF MYSORE.

General description of the Mysore country.

The climate. A healthy one for Europeans.

The beautiful scenery of the western borderlands.

The falls of Gairsoppa.

Height of the falls; difficulty of getting at them; the
    Lushington, Lalgali, and Majod Falls might be visited-when on the
    way to Gairsoppa Falls.

The best time for visiting the falls.

Description of the falls.

Startling sounds to be heard at the falls.

To the bottom of the gorge below the falls.

Wonderful combinations of sights and sounds.

The scene on the pool above the falls.

The beautiful moonlight effects.

A flying squirrel; a tiger bounding across the road.

The Cauvery Falls and the route to them.

General description of the falls.

The Gangana Chuckee Falls.

The Bar Chuckee Falls.

The Gairsoppa and Cauvery Falls contrasted.

Interesting bridges built by native engineers.

Leisure, solitude, and repose necessary to enjoy scenery.

CHAPTER III.--MYSORE--ITS GOVERNMENT AND REPRESENTATIVE ASSEMBLY.

The early history of Mysore.

The Hindoo and Mahometan lines.

The Hindoo line restored by us in 1799.

The insurrection of 1830.

The Maharajah deposed and the country in 1831 administered by the
    British.

The State restored to native administration in 1881.

The people at first generally disliked the change; causes of
    this.

Value of an admixture of Europeans in the Mysore service.

The alleged breach of good faith as regards conferring
    appointments on natives in British territory.

The constitution of Mysore; terms on which it was transferred not
    to native rule but to native administration.

Mysore as practically under British rule as any part of British
    India.

After deducting sum allotted for Maharajah's personal
    expenditure, the remaining revenues to be spent on public
    purposes only.

The advantages possessed by settlers in Mysore.

The Mysore Representative Assembly.

The notification by which the Assembly was established, and the
    system of nominating members.

Contrast between it and the Egyptian General Assembly of the
    Legislative Council.

First meeting of the Assembly, Oct. 7th, 1881.

Rules of 1890 announcing a system of electing members in future.

My election in 1891 as a member of the Assembly.

Am appointed chairman of preliminary meetings.

Measures agreed to at the preliminary meetings.

Rules to regulate discussions in preliminary meetings.

Organization desired to be established; funds for working the
    proposed organization.

The lady students of the Maharanee's College.

The Assembly formally opened; the Dewan's address.

Gold mines, railways, roads; interference of Madras Government
    with proposed Mysore Irrigation Works.

Measure to promote digging of wells.

Value of the Assembly as a means of communicating intelligence
    amongst the people.

Forests. Elephants. Female education.

The Archæological Survey. The Census. The municipal elections.

Reform of religious and charitable institutions. An irregular
    meeting of members.

A marriage law proposed. Great excitement caused thereby.
    Proposal adjourned.

Proposal to store grain against times of famine.

Revenue should be remitted in full when there is no crop.

My speech in the Assembly as chairman of preliminary meetings.

Members called up in order to represent grievances and wants. The
    marriage question again.

Influence of public opinion as regards age for consummation of
    marriages.

Opinion of two native gentlemen as regards my speech.

An important concession gained by the representatives.

The admirable working of the Mysore Government. General
    appreciation of the Dewan's administration.

Representatives have no power and do not want any. Causes of the
    absence of any demand for parliamentary institutions such as
    those in England.

Absence of general interest in the Assembly. Causes of this.

Great value of Assembly in bringing rulers and ruled together.
    Such Assembly more necessary now than formerly. Causes of this.

The Indian Congress. Causes of the creation of.

Started in 1885 by a small number of the educated classes.

Seditious pamphlets circulated by the Congress.

Copies bought for the Athenæum Club.

Mr. Dadabhai Naoroji, M.P. one of the sellers of the pamphlets.

Proceedings of the Congress legitimate till it fell under
    guidance of Mr. Hume. Excuses for Mr. Dadabhai Naoroji.

The composition of the first and second Congresses.

The third Congress. The members desire to make the laws and
    control the finances of India.

The Congress declares that as Indians in rural districts are not
    qualified to elect members, these should be elected by an
    electoral college composed of the flower of the educated classes.

As the desired powers are not likely to be obtained in India, the
    people of England must be made to believe that India is being
    misgoverned.

The Congress' schemes for bringing about a revolution in India.
    Native volunteers to be enrolled to bring pressure to bear on the
    Government. The Repeal of the Arms Act demanded.

The seditious pamphlets issued by the Congress.

The sums of money collected with the aid of the pamphlets.

Opinions of Congress that natives are wanting in the qualities
    necessary for governing India.

CHAPTER IV.--NATURAL HISTORY AND SPORT.

The advantages and pleasures of big game shooting.

Comparative risks from tigers, bears, and panthers.

Boars and other wild animals more dangerous now than formerly.
    Advantages of this for sportsmen.

The natural history of Mysore.

Elephants. Tigers much more numerous in former times in Mysore.

In a short time 118 caught in traps. Remarkable cessation of such
    captures. The balance of nature destroyed.

The spread of intelligence amongst wild animals. Tiger passes.
    Difference of opinion as to how tigers seize their prey.

The use of the paw in killing animals and people.

The carrying powers of tigers and panthers.

Reasons for not sitting on the ground when tiger shooting.

Illustration of risk of sitting on the ground.

Caution should be exercised when approaching a tiger supposed to
    be dead.

Another illustration of the risk of sitting on the ground.

Illustration of the importance of sitting motionless when obliged
    to sit on the ground.

An exciting rush after a wounded tiger.

Coolness and courage exhibited by a native.

Estimate of danger of tiger shooting on foot. Should not be
    pursued by those whoso lives are of cash value to their families.

People killed by wounded tigers. Difficulty of seeing a tiger in
    the jungle.

Distinguishing sight of natives superior to that of Europeans.

Tigers easily recover from wounds.

Effects on the nerves and heart from the roar of a wounded tiger.

Precautions that should be exercised by sportsmen with damaged
    hearts.

The lame tiger. Met in the road at night.

Tying out live baits for tigers.

Interesting instance of tiger stalking up to a live bait.

Another illustration of risk of approaching a tiger apparently
    dead.

Importance of using a chain when tying out a bait. Sport spoiled
    from a chain not being used.

Tigers eat tigers sometimes. Illustration of this.

The tiger's power of ascending trees.

Interesting instance of a jackal warning tigers of danger.

Tiger put to flight by the rearing of a horse.

Effect on a tiger of the human voice. Tigers often undecided how
    to act.

Tigers form plans and act in concert. Illustration of this.

Tigers of Western Ghaut forests, if unmolested, rarely dangerous
    to man.

Very dangerous man-eating tigers have existed in the interior of
    Mysore. Man-eaters enter villages. A tiger tearing off the thatch
    of a hut.

Great courage and determination shown by natives in connection
    with tigers. Illustrations of this.

The life of a planter saved by a dog attacking the tiger.

Interesting behaviour of the dog after Mr. A. was wounded.

Treatment of wounds from tigers. A native recovers from thirteen
    lacerated wounds and two on the head.

A mad tiger. Position of body that should be adopted when waiting
    for a tiger. Importance of this.

Tiger purring with evident satisfaction after having killed a
    man.

CHAPTER V.--BEARS, PANTHERS, JUNGLE DOGS, SNAKES, JUNGLE PETS.

Bear has two cubs at a time. Bears rapidly decreasing. Said by
    natives to be killed and eaten by tigers. Instances of tigers
    killing bears.

Bears dreaded by natives more than any animal in the jungle.
    Probable cause of their often attacking people. Illustration of
    this.

Attacked by an unwounded and unprovoked bear.

If suddenly attacked by an animal at close quarters rush towards
    it.

Wanton attacks made by bears on people. Approaching caves and
    getting bears out of them.

Great value of stink balls.

How not to attempt to get a bear out of a cave. Am caught by a
    hill fire.

Amusing incident at a bear's cave. A man wounded.

Value of having a good dog when out bear shooting. Am knocked
    down by a bear.

Panthers. Should be hunted with dogs.

Panther probably feigning death. A man killed.

The wild boar the most daring animal in the jungles. Illustration
    in point.

The great power of the wild boar. My manager charged by one.

Boars make shelters for themselves in the rains. The flesh of the
    boar not a safe food.

Jungle dogs. Said by natives to kill tigers.

The use, said by the natives to be made by the dogs, of their
    acrid urine.

A cross between the jungle and the domestic dog.

Curious incident connected with jungle dogs.

Great increase of jungle dogs. A reward should be offered for
    their destruction.

Many reported deaths from snake bites probably poisoning cases.
    Reasons in support of this view. From 1855 to 1893 only one death
    from snake bite in my neighbourhood.

The cobra not an aggressive snake. Unless hurt or provoked will
    probably never bite. Illustrations in support of this view.

Snakes keep a good look out. Tigers and snakes run away.

Many snakes are harmless, and some useful.

Wild animals probably require to be taught by their parents to
    dread man.

A tame stag. A tame flying squirrel.

A tame hornbill.

Probable cause of pets not caring to rejoin their wild congeners.

Some remarks on guns. The Paradox.

CHAPTER VI.--BISON SHOOTING.

Unless molested the bison never attacks man.

An attempt to photograph a solitary bull.

Description of the bison.

Height of bull bison. Account of an interesting friendship
    between a tame sambur deer and a bull bison.

Bison are often attacked by tigers.

Interesting instance of a tiger stalking up to a solitary bull.

The tiger and bull knocked over right and left.

Precautions that should be taken when following up a wounded
    bull.

A tracker killed by a bull. Following a wounded bull.

Stalking up to a herd. The value of peppermint lozenges.

How a wounded bull may be lost.

The value of a dog when following up a wounded bull.

Wonderful bounding power of the bison. A narrow escape from a
    charging bull.

Special Act required for preservation of cow bison.

CHAPTER VII.--GOLD.

The earliest tradition as regards gold in Mysore.

Explanation of gold being found on the ears of corn. Lieutenant
    Warren's investigations in 1800.

Native methods of procuring gold by washing and mining.

Depths to which old native pits were sunk.

Probable cause of the cessation of mining at considerable depths.

In 1873 leave first given to a European to mine for gold.
    Remarkable absence in Mysore of old records or inscriptions
    relating to gold mining.

Mr. Lavelle in 1873 applied for right to mine in Kolar.

Of the mines subsequently started all practically closed in 1882,
    except the Mysore mine, which began to get gold in end of 1884.

Had the Mysore Company not persevered the Kolar field would
    probably have been closed. Depths to which mines have been sunk.
    The Champion Lode.

General description of the Kolar field. Notes by a lady resident.

Life on the field. Gardening. Visitors from England.

The volunteers at the mines. Sport near the field.

Servants and supplies. Elevation and the climate. A healthy one.

Mining and the extraction of gold.

The rates of wages. No advances given to labourers.

Expenditure by the companies in Mysore in wages. Consequential
    results therefrom on the prosperity of the people.

Measures which the State should take to encourage the opening of
    new mines.

Royalty on mines that are not paying should be reduced or
    abolished. Act required to check gold stealing.

Some summary process should be adopted to check gold thefts.

Want of water on the field. Measures proposed for conserving it.

The want of tree planting. Other auriferous tracts in Mysore. Mr.
    R. Bruce Foote's report.

Brief analysis of Mr. Bruce Foote's report on the various
    auriferous tracts. The central group of auriferous rocks.

The west-central group.

The western group. Expects that many other old abandoned workings
    will be discovered in the jungly tracts.

An inexhaustible supply of beautiful porphyry near Seringapatam
    and close to a railway.

CHAPTER VIII.--CASTE.

Valuable to rural populations.

My inquiry limited to its rural and practical effects on life.

Its moral effects as regards the connection of the sexes.

Its value in limiting the use of alcohol.

Morality in Manjarabad superior to that of England.

Widows may contract a kind of marriage. The value of caste in
    socially segregating inferior from superior races.

The mental value of the separation caused by caste.

The separation caused by caste has not hindered advancement
    amongst the rural population. The Coorgs an instance of this.

Disadvantages of caste as regards town populations.

Instances of the evils of caste amongst the higher classes in the
    towns.

Inquiry as to how far caste has acted beneficially in opposing
    the existing interpretation of Christianity.

Worthlessness of pure dogmas when adopted by a degraded people.

Native Christians readily revert to devil worship in cases of
    danger or sickness.

Native Christians neither better nor worse than the low-classes
    from which they are usually drawn. Experience of the Abbé Dubois.

The upper class peasantry having to give up caste would be
    injured by being converted.

The town population would not be injured by conversion.

Causes of the outcry against caste.

Its alleged tendencies.

The way to retain the good and lessen the evil of caste.

To become a Christian our missionaries compel the entire
    abandonment of caste. Their version of Christianity wisely
    rejected.

Mischievous action of our missionaries as regards caste. Their
    erroneous views a bar to the progress of Christianity.

Bishop Heber's "Letter on Caste."

Bishop Wilson's fatal "Circular" requiring absolute abandonment
    of caste by Christians.

Secession of native Christians in consequence of the "Circular."
    Erroneous views contained in the Report of the Madras
    Commissioners.

Views of the Tanjore missionaries as regards caste.

Mr. Schwartz's opinions.

The Tanjore missionaries not unfavourable to the retention of
    caste by their converts.

Inquiry into the origin of caste.

No connection between caste and idolatry. They may and do exist
    apart.

Caste as it exists in Ceylon.

The way in which caste probably did originate.

The Jews a strictly guarded caste.

Caste difficulties as regards taking the Sacrament.

Its sanitary advantages.

Caste no bar to the exercise of hospitality and charity.

Advantages of caste in increasing hospitality and charity.

Caste has a levelling as well as a keeping down tendency.

Instances of people rising into a superior caste.

Rigidity of caste laws much exaggerated. They vary in different
    places. Occasional violations of caste law condoned. Remarkable
    instance of this.

Infringement of caste when out tiger shooting.

Instance of variation in caste law. Caste apt to be made the
    scapegoat of every Indian difficulty.

Mr. Pope's remarks on the effects of caste.

Mr. Raikes's remarks on the evil effects of caste. Thinks that it
    is the cause of infanticide.

Instance to show that infanticide can exist amongst people free
    from caste. Polyandrous habits not necessarily a cause of
    infanticide.

Summary of principal conclusions arrived at.

Curious customs of the Marasa Wokul tribe in Mysore.

The effect of caste on the transmission of acquired aptitudes.

CHAPTER IX.--COFFEE PLANTING IN COORG.

Description and the history of Coorg.

Conquered and annexed by us in 1834. My first visit to Coorg in
    1857. The pioneer planters.

Planting without shade caused the failure of many of the
    plantations.

After shade was introduced coffee flourished.

European and native plantations. Their number and the probable
    yield from them. Expenditure per acre.

The kinds of manure used. Experiments by an analytical chemist.

Proportions of manure varied according to the condition of the
    coffee. The time in which manure should be applied. Applications
    of burnt earth.

Widespread results arising from the expenditure on plantations in
    Coorg.

Rates of wages, and system of procuring labourers. Leaf disease
    and Borer.

Remedies experimented on as regards leaf disease and Borer.

Primary cause of the existence of so much Borer. The terms on
    which Government lands are sold for planting.

Reasons why certain of the reserved State forests should be given
    out for planting.

Cinchona and Ceara rubber planting tried and abandoned. Coffee
    seed introduced from Brazil, and other countries, without any
    apparent advantage. Liberian coffee tried experimentally.

The capital spent on labour and the consequential results of this
    on agriculture. My visit to Coorg in 1891.

The route from Mysore. The coffee works at Hunsur. Interesting
    adventure with a panther.

To Mr. Rose's estate near Polibetta. Description of Bamboo
    district.

Life in the Bamboo district. The club, church, and co-operative
    store.

Visits to plantations. Left for Mercara.

The Retreat. Mr. Meynell's house. Its kitchen arrangements, etc.

Mr. Mann's coffee garden at Mercara. The large profits from it.
    To the Hallery estate six miles from Mercara.

Visits to several estates. To the Coovercolley estate. Mr.
    Mangles's.

Left Coovercolley for Manjarabad in Mysore.

General observations on coffee planting in Coorg. Its flourishing
    condition. More attention should be paid to shade.

Defects as regards shade. More attention to it would lessen
    Borer.

Manures used on the best kept up estates.

The profits that may be expected from good, well-managed estates.
    The great want of a Game Preservation Act.

CHAPTER X.--COFFEE PLANTING IN MYSORE.

An agreeable life for an active intelligent man who must work
    somewhere.

Qualities necessary to make a successful planter.

The work not hard. The climate agreeable and healthy. The
    elevation of the coffee districts above sea level.

The changes that may be taken in the slack season by planters.
    The durability of well-shaded plantations.

Shaded plantations a very permanent property. The profits of
    coffee. Case of an estate bought with borrowed money.

Analysis of yield, expenses, and profits on a Manjarabad estate.

Probable profits on estates in the northern part of Mysore.

From want of information coffee plantations in Mysore not
    saleable at good prices. Failure of coffee in Ceylon. This gave
    coffee generally an undeservedly bad name.

Early notices of coffee in India. Its early history in Mysore.

Failure of the variety of coffee first introduced.

The successful introduction of the Coorg variety of coffee.

Mysore coffee fetches the highest price in the London market.
    Original Mysore coffee land tenures.

The new Coffee Land Rules introduced in 1885.

In the south of Mysore all coffee land probably taken up. In
    north, land reported to be still available. Planters well
    satisfied with the Government.

Advances to labourers. Legislation as regards them much needed.

Proposed measure to meet the advances to labourers difficulty.

Legislation required to amend the extraditions laws.

The New Cattle Trespass Act. The want of a Wild Birds' Protection
    Act. The neglect of game preservation.

In consequence of game destruction tigers forced to prey heavily
    on village cattle. Great losses in consequence.

Cruelty of native hunters. Evidences of extermination of game
    birds.

The want of a Government Agricultural Chemist. The discovery of a
    new hybrid coffee plant.

Enormous yield from it.

CHAPTER XI.--SHADE.

General remarks on the importance of shade.

The governing principle as regards shade for coffee.

The most desirable kinds of shade trees. Those of less desirable
    kinds.

The Jack. Its merits and defects.

The Attí. Good when young, less desirable when old.

The Noga. The objections to relying on this tree.

Other kinds of less desirable shade trees.

Albizzia Moluccana. Said to be a valuable tree for shade.

Methods adopted when forming a shaded plantation.

Great advantages of clearing without burning the forest.

The order in which shade trees should be planted.

The young shade trees require shade. The charcoal tree a good
    nurse.

The management of young shade trees.

The evils arising from excessive trimming of side branches of
    shade trees. Planting under the shade of the original forest
    trees.

The value of leaving marginal belts of forest. The danger of a
    running fire.

The quantity of shade required for varying aspects and gradients.

The great differences between northern and southern aspects as
    regards heat.

Western and eastern aspects.

Importance of attending to the gradients, the quality of the
    soil, and its exposure to drying winds.

Elevation and rainfall govern quantity of shade that should be
    kept. The thinning, and lopping lower boughs of shade trees.

Much knowledge and experience required in judicious thinning.

More shade will be required as trees become lofty.

Importance of at once planting up spots where shade is deficient,
    in order to keep out the Borer insect.

Planting out young shade trees. The removal of parasites from
    shade trees.

Preparation of shade tree cuttings before planting out. How to
    grow young charcoal-tree plants. Valuable as nurses.

CHAPTER XII.--MANURE.

How shade complicates the economical and effective manuring of
    coffee.

Bulk manures as a rule should not be applied to land directly
    under shade trees, but to more open spaces.

Less manure should be applied to coffee directly under shade
    trees.

Manure should be varied on different aspects. The quantity that
    should be annually supplied.

Bones may be seldom used if lime is regularly applied.

A considerable amount of manure required even though the loss
    from crops is small.

A test of land being sufficiently supplied with manure. The
    quantity of manure probably required.

The quantity of manure that should be put down at a time.

Danger from over-manuring, especially in ease of light soils.

Ridges should be more heavily manured than hollows. The time of
    year when manures should be applied.

Advantages of manuring at the end of the monsoon.

Bearing that the time of applying manures has on leaf disease.
    Mr. Marshall Ward's remarks as to this.

The various methods of applying manures.

In the case of steep land the manure should be buried in
    trenches. Farmyard manure. Its great value for coffee.

Substitutes for farmyard manure.

Value of forest land top soil as a manure, and as a substitute
    for farmyard manure.

The comparative cost of farmyard manure and top soil. Remarkable
    result from an application of pink-coloured soil.

If top soil costs the same as farmyard manure the former is
    better. Reasons for this being so. A compost of pink soil and
    manures may be made, which will equal good farmyard manure, and
    cost but little more.

The manurial value of pulp, and of dry fallen leaves.

Manurial value of green twigs of trees, ferns and wood ashes.

Night soil. Lime.

Bonedust. Fish manure.

Oil-cakes. Proportion of phosphate of lime in castor cake.

Nitrates of potash and soda.

Potash. A manure of doubtful value in the case of Mysore soils.

Attempt to ascertain value of potash as a manure for coffee.

How to grow young plants in old soils. Coprolites, discovery of,
    in Mysore.

An agricultural chemist wanted for the province. A careful record
    should be kept of manure applied.

Bringing round a neglected plantation. Steps that should be
    taken.

Manurial experiments.

Native manurial practises should be studied. Application of
    various soils as top dressing by native cultivators. The best and
    most economical way of manuring coffee has yet to be discovered.

Manurial experiments need not be costly.

CHAPTER XIII.--NURSERIES, TOPPING, HANDLING, PRUNING, ETC.

The selection of seed.

Irrigated coffee near Bangalore. Mr. Meenakshia's gardens. The
    selection of a site for a nursery.

The best time for putting down the seed.

Plants should be grown in baskets. The pits for vacancy plants.

Topping. The best heights for.

The time when trees should be topped.

Handling and the removal of suckers. Its importance as regards
    rot and leaf disease.

Pruning.

Management of pruning, with reference to rot and leaf disease.

The removal of moss and rubbing down the trees. The cultivation
    of the soil.

Difficulties connected with the proper cultivation of the soil.

The best tools for digging. Renovation pits.

Renovation pits valuable as water-holes. Their value in
    connection with water conservation.

CHAPTER XIV.--THE DISEASES OF COFFEE.

Leaf disease, or attacks of Hemeleïa Vastatrix.

Mr. Marshall Ward's report on leaf disease in Ceylon. Leaf
    disease probably always existed in Mysore. Said to have caused
    much loss on some estates.

Losses of leaves from other causes commonly attributed to leaf
    disease. No reason to fear it if land is well cultivated,
    manured, and shaded. Evidence that shade can control leaf
    disease.

Bad kinds of shade trees cannot control, but increase leaf
    disease.

Conditions under which leaf disease is liable to occur in the
    cases of good soil under good shade trees.

The importance of manure and cultivation with reference to leaf
    disease. Mr. Graham Anderson's, Mr. Marshall Ward's and Mr.
    Brooke Mockett's opinions. The Coorg plant not so liable to be
    attacked as the Chick plant.

The Borer insect.

Borer is worst under bad kinds of shade trees, but can be
    controlled by good caste trees.

Conditions favorable to attacks of the Borer.

Reasons for thinking that the usual practice of destroying all
    bored trees is of little use.

The Borer can only be suppressed by adequate shade. Rot, or
    pellicularia koleroga. Aggravated by want of free circulation
    of air.

Measures for lessening rot. Importance of meeting monsoon with
    mature leaves on the coffee trees.

Green-bugs. None in Mysore, Receipt for killing them used on
    Nilgiri Hills.

CHAPTER XV.--THE SELECTION OF LAND FOR PLANTATIONS, AND THE VALUATION OF COFFEE PROPERTY.

Much uncleared land available in northern part of Mysore.

The various classes of forest lands.

Much land unsuitable from over heavy rainfall. Mr. Graham
    Anderson's return of rainfall. His interesting memorandum.

Elevation of plantations above sea level. With a few exceptions
    not much difference in value of the coffee of various estates.

The especial importance of aspect in Mysore.

The most favourable gradients. Various kinds of soil.

Comparative healthiness of the different coffee districts in
    Mysore.

Various considerations to be taken into account when valuing
    land.

An old established estate may not necessarily be an old
    plantation.

The quality of the shade ought largely to affect a valuation of a
    property.

Facilities that should be considered when valuing a property.

Impossible to offer opinion as to value of coffee property, till
    facts as regard it are widely known, and the line is opened to
    western coast.

CHAPTER XVI.--HOW TO MAKE AN ESTATE PAY, AND THE ORDER OF THE WORK.

Inferior parts of estates should be thrown out of cultivation.

The losses caused by giving advances.

Advances not so necessary as formerly, as labour rates are higher
    now.

Advances to Maistries to bring labour.

Minor sources of loss. The order in which the various works
    should be performed.

CHAPTER XVII.--THE MANAGEMENT OF ABSENTEE ESTATES.

"The fact is, we all require a little looking after."

Advisable to give manager an interest in the estate. Managers for
    estates in Mysore require to be very carefully selected.

A clear understanding essential between proprietor and manager.

Powers of attorney should be carefully drawn up. The proprietor
    entirely in the power of the manager.

The value of the eye of the owner. Every estate should have an
    information book.

Points to be entered in the information book.

Hints to managers.

CHAPTER XVIII.--THE PLANTER'S BUNGALOW AND THE AMENITIES OF AN ESTATE.

The best form of bungalow.

The kitchen arrangements.

The aspect of the bungalow and ground around it.

Cash value of the amenities of an estate. The flower garden.

Building materials.

How to keep out white ants.

Coolie lines.

Tree planting for timber and fuel.

Precautions for the conservation of health.

Hints as regards food, and the table generally.

Suggestions as to books and newspapers.

Importance of having some interesting pursuit.

The minor amenities of an estate.

The conditions of a planter's life now ameliorated by railways.

Mysore out of the reach of House of Commons faddists. Advantages
    of this.

CHAPTER XIX.--THE INDIAN SILVER QUESTION.

On June 26th, 1893, gold standard introduced and mints closed to
    free coinage of silver.

Movement originated in India by the servants of Government, and
    from no other class whatever.

Some merchants afterwards joined in the agitation. Gold to be
    received at the mints at a ratio of 1s. 4d. per rupee.
    Sovereigns in payment of sums due to Government to be received at
    the rate of fifteen rupees a sovereign.

Cash effects of the measure. For benefit of English reader
    figures given in pounds sterling, a rupee taken at 2s. Rupee
    prices little changed in India, China and Ceylon. Difficulty of
    forming exact estimates as to this.

If gold value of silver can be forced up from 1s. 3d. to 1s.
    4d., Indian Government will gain about one and a half million
    sterling on its home remittances, and the people lose about seven
    millions on their exports.

The Indian Finance Minister contemplates a rise to 1s. 6d.
    eventually.

A rise to 1s. 6d. would give the Exchequer a gain on home
    remittances of £4,500,000 and entail on the people a loss
    £21,000,000, equal to a tax of 21 per cent. on the exports of
    India. Effects of this on the producers.

The producers of coffee in Mysore alone would lose £56,000 a year
    were exchange forced up to 1s. 4d., and £156,000 a year were it
    raised to 1s. 6d. All producers in other parts of India of
    articles of export would be similarly affected.

If the rupee is artificially forced up by the State, the shock to
    confidence will repel capital and injure credit. The first effect
    will show itself in a lessened demand for labour.

The effects of increased employment on the finances. The bearing
    of the measure on famines and scarcity. It will intensify the
    effects of both, and make them more costly to the State.

The measure has arrayed all classes against the Government,
    except its own servants and a very few of the merchants.

The effects of the measure on the tea-planters of India and
    Ceylon. It must heavily affect both. If Ceylon establishes a
    mint, tea-planters there will have advantages over their rivals
    in India.

Coffee planters of India and Ceylon will he prejudicially
    affected in their competition with silver-using countries. Evil
    effects of the measure on the trade, manufactures, and railways
    of India.

The measure rotten from financial, political, and economical
    points of view.

The Viceroy and the supporters of the measure have admitted that
    it must be injurious to the producers of India. Sir William
    Hunter's admirable survey of the former and present financial
    condition of India.

The Viceroy has publicly declared that cheap silver has acted as
    "a stimulus" to the progress of India.

The unfair action of Lord Herschell's Committee. Not a single
    representative of the producing classes examined. But the
    majority of witnesses were dead against the monetary policy of
    the Government. The Currency Committee reported against the
    weight of the evidence. The most important points not inquired
    into at all by the Committee.

The Indian Government and Currency Committee financially
    panic-stricken, and in dread of effects of repeal of Sherman Act.
    The financial condition not such as to warrant panic. Taxational
    resources not exhausted.

Sir William Hunter's statement proves that the financial
    conditions were full of hope. The dread that the repeal of the
    Sherman Act might reduce rupee to 1s. Examination of the
    subject on that supposition.

By a rate of 1s. a rupee the Government would lose about seven
    millions on its home remittances, and the people of India gain
    fourteen millions on their exports. Mr. Gladstone's Government
    adopted Home Rule Bill, and Currency Measure in one year. Both
    forced on by tyrannical action. Gladstonian action as to Opium
    Commission equally tyrannical.

The monetary measure a policy of protection for the benefit of
    the silver-using countries that compete with India.

Some of the evils the measure, if successful, must cause. The
    Indian Finance Minister declared that "it ought not to be
    attempted unless under the pressure of necessity." No necessity
    arisen. An independent body wanted to efficiently check the
    Government. The Duke of Wellington's opinion.

India and Mexico compared. Mr. Carden's Consular Report.

Cheap silver advantageous to Mexico. The losses to the Government
    and railways which arise from gold payments are, comparatively
    speaking, a fixed quantity, while the gain to the people from
    cheap silver, produces consequential benefits far beyond reach of
    calculation. These remarks equally applicable to India. Wanted, a
    Government that can see this.

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY.--PROGRESS IN MYSORE.

As I now turn my thoughts back to the year 1855, when, being then in my eighteenth year, I
sailed for India to seek my fortunes in the jungles of Mysore, it is difficult to believe that
the journey is still the same, or that India is still the same country on the shores of which
I landed so long ago. But after all, as a matter of fact, the journey is, practically speaking,
not the same, and still less is India the same India which I knew in 1855. For the route across
Egypt, which was then partly by rail, partly by water, and partly across the desert in transits,
the bumping of which I even now distinctly remember, has been exchanged for the Suez Canal,
and the frequent steamers with their accelerated rate of speed have altered all the relations
of distances, and on landing at Bombay the traveller of 1855 would now find it difficult to
recognize the place. For then there were the old fort walls and ditches, and narrow streets
filled with a straggling throng of carts and people, while now the fort walls and ditches no
longer exist, and the traveller drives into a city with public buildings, broad roads and beautiful
squares and gardens, that would do credit to any capital in the world, and sees around him
all the signs of advanced and advancing civilization. Then as, perhaps, he views the scene
from the Tower of the Elphinstone College, and looks down on the beautiful city, on the masts
of the shipping lying in the splendid harbour, and on the moving throngs of people to whom
we have given peace and order, what thoughts must fill his mind! And what thoughts further,
as on turning to view the scene without the city he sees on one side of it the tall chimneys
of the numerous mills which have sprung up in recent times, and which tell of the conjunction
of English skill and capital with the cheap hand-labour of the East--a combination that is
destined, and at no very distant period ahead, to produce remarkable effects. But I must not
wander here into the consideration of matters to which I shall again have occasion to refer
when I come to remark on the wonderful progress made in India in recent years owing to the
introduction of English skill and capital, and shall now briefly describe my route to the western
jungles of Mysore.

When I landed in Bombay, in 1855, the journey to the Native State of Mysore, now so easy and
simple, was one requiring much time and no small degree of trouble, for the railway lines had
then advanced but little--the first twenty miles in all India having been only opened near
Bombay in 1853. A land journey then was not to be thought of, and as there were no coasting-steamers,
I was compelled to take a passage in a Patama (native sailing craft) which was proceeding down
the western coast with a cargo of salt which was stowed away in the after-part of the vessel.
Over this was a low roofed and thatched house, the flooring of which was composed of strips
of split bamboo laid upon the salt. On this I placed my mattress and bedding. My provisions
for the voyage were very simple--a coop with some fowls, some tea, sugar, cooking utensils,
and other small necessaries of life. A Portuguese servant I had hired in Bombay cooked my dinner
and looked after me generally. We sailed along the sometimes bare, and occasionally palm-fringed,
shores with that indifference to time and progress which is often the despair and not unfrequently
the envy of Europeans. The hubble-bubble passed from mouth to mouth, and the crew whiled away
the evening hours with their monotonous chants. We always anchored at night; sometimes we stopped
for fishing, and once ran into a small bay--one of those charming scenic gems which can only
be found in the eastern seas--to land some salt and take in cocoa-nuts and other items. As
for the port of Mangalore, for which I was bound, it seemed to be, though only about 450 miles
from Bombay, an immense distance away, and practically was nearly as far as Bombay is from
Suez. At last, after a nine days' sail, we lay to off the mouth of the harbour into which,
for reasons best known to himself, the captain of the craft did not choose to enter, and I
was taken ashore in a canoe to be kindly received by the judge of the collectorate of South
Kanara, to whom I had a letter of introduction.

After spending some pleasant days at Mangalore I set out for Manjarabad, the talook or county
which borders on the South Kanara district--in what is called a manshiel--a kind of open-sided
cot slung to a bamboo pole which projects far enough in front and rear to be placed with ease
on the shoulders of the bearers. Four of these men are brought into play at once, while four
others run along to relieve their fellows at intervals. I started in the afternoon, and was
carried up the banks of a broad river by the side of which hero and there the road wound pleasantly
along. In the course of a few hours night fell, and then all nature seemed to come into active
life with the hum of insects, the croaking of frogs, and various other indications of an abounding
animal life. Presently I was lulled to sleep by the monotonous chant of the bearers--sleep
only partially broken when changes of the whole set of bearers had to be made--and awoke the
following morning to find myself some fifty miles from the coast, and amidst the gorges of
the Ghauts, with vast heights towering upwards, and almost all around, while the river, which
had now sunk to what in English ideas would still seem to be one of considerable size, appeared
as if it had just emerged from the navel of a mountain-barrier some miles ahead. After a few
miles more we passed the last hamlet of what was then called the Company's Country, and leaving
the inhabited lands--if indeed in a European sense they may be called so--behind us, began
to ascend the twenty miles of forest-clad gorges which lead up into the tableland of Mysore.
The ascent was necessarily slow, and it was not till late in the afternoon that I saw, some
500 feet above me, and at a total elevation of about 3,200 feet above sea-level, the white
walls of the only planter's bungalow in the southern part of Mysore. To this pioneer of our
civilization--Mr. Frederick Green, who had begun work in 1843--I had a letter of introduction,
and was most kindly received, and put in the way of acquiring land which I started on and still
hold. To the south, in the adjacent little province of Coorg--now, as we shall afterwards see,
an extensive coffee-field--the first European plantation had been started the year before,
i.e., 1854, while to the north some fifty to seventy miles away the country was, in a European
sense, occupied by only three English, or, to be exact, Scotch planters. In 1856 I started
active life as a planter on my own account, about twelve miles away from the estate of Mr.
Green, while in the same year two other planters--Scotchmen by the way--made their appearance.
The southern part of Mysore was thus occupied by four planters, and we were all about twelve
miles from each other. It is difficult to conceive the state of isolation in which we lived,
and as we were all Europeanly speaking single handed, and could seldom leave home, we often
had not for weeks together an opportunity of seeing a single white face, and so rare indeed
was a visit from a neighbour that, when one was coming to see me, I used to sit on a hill watching
for the first glimpse of him, like a shipwrecked mariner on a desert island watching for the
glimpse of a sail on the horizon. As for the Indian mutinies, which broke out the year after
I had started work, they might have been going on in Norway as far as we were concerned; none
of us at all appreciated the importance and gravity of the events that were occurring, and
one of my neighbours said that it was not worth while trying to understand the situation, and
that we had better wait for the book that would be sure to come out when things had settled
down. And the native population around us appeared to know as little of the mutinies as we
did. They seemed to be aware that some disturbance was going on somewhere in the north, and
that represented the whole extent of their knowledge of the subject.

I have described our life as having been one of great isolation so far as European society
was concerned, but I never felt it to be a dull one, nor did my neighbours ever complain of
it, though we only took a holiday of a few weeks in the year. But we had plenty of work, and
big game shooting, and the occupation was an interesting one, and as I even now return with
pleasure every winter to my planter's life, this proves that my earlier days must have left
behind them many pleasant associations. And the occupation and sport were really all we had
to depend on. We had few books, nor any means of getting them, for I need hardly say that pioneer
planters, who have to keep themselves and their coffee till the latter comes into bearing,
cannot afford to buy anything that can be dispensed with. But after all this perhaps was no
disadvantage, for, as a great moral philosopher has pointed out, nothing tends to weaken the
resources of the mind so much as a miscellaneous course of reading unaccompanied (as it usually
is, I may remark) by reflection. The management of people, the business of an estate, the exercise
of the inventive powers, the cultivation of method, the sharpening of the observing and combining
faculties, which are so well developed by big game shooting, yield real education, or the leading
out and development of the mental resources, while books provide the individual merely with
instruction which has often a tendency to cramp and even to fossilize the mind.

I have said at the outset, that the journey to India is not the same as it was in 1855, and
that still less is India the same India, and I may certainly say that still less is Western
Mysore the Western Mysore of 1855, except that its beautiful scenery is as beautiful as ever.
For our planting is not like that of Ceylon, where the planter, like the locust, finds a paradise
in front to leave a desert in his rear--a desert of bare lull sides from which the beautiful
forest has been entirely swept away, while the most valuable constituents of the soil have
been washed down to the river beds. And when standing in 1893 on a lull in my district of Manjarabad,
and looking around, I can see no sign of change in the landscape from the days of 1855, except
that the woodland paths leading from village to village are much more distinctly marked, owing
to the great increase of labourers employed in the numerous native and European plantations,
which now stretch in an unbroken line along all the western border of Mysore. And no sign of
change is apparent, because all the coffee is planted either under the shade of the original
forest trees, or under the shade of trees which have been planted to take their place. But
all else is practically and largely changed by the agency of a universal progress, which has
been brought about by British government and the introduction of British capital, skill, and
energy. And this progress, I am glad to be able to say, has benefited all classes of the community,
and the labouring classes by far the most of all, and the results as regards those are so striking,
so interesting, and so much more widely diffused than could at first sight be thought possible,
and are, as I shall show, of such vast importance to the finances of the State, that they are
well worthy of special attention. Had the Government been aware of the enormous financial value
to the State of the introduction of English capital, I feel sure that much greater efforts
would have been made to stimulate European enterprise, and that the progress of India would
have been much accelerated all along the line.

When I started my plantation in 1858, the pay of a labourer was 2 rupees 4 annas (4s. 6d.)
a month. It is now, throughout the numerous plantations in Mysore, from six to seven rupees
a month, and a labourer can live on about two rupees a month. Such a statement made of any
country would indicate a satisfactory degree of progress; but whereas in England it would simply
mean a greater ability in the working classes to live in an improved condition, and perhaps
some improvement in the condition of the shopkeepers with whom they dealt, in India it means
the creation of a social and ever wide-spreading revolution. For when in India capital is introduced,
and employment on a large scale is afforded to the people, the poorer of the peasant classes
are at once able to free themselves from debt, and the labourers soon save enough money to
enable them to start in agriculture, coffee culture, or any culture within, their reach. The
result of this, in my experience, has been most remarkable. When I started in Manjarabad, for
instance, the planters relied solely on labour procured from the adjacent villages. But now
the local labourer is almost a thing of the past, for he has taken to agriculture and coffee
culture, and now only occasionally works for a short time to earn some money to pay his taxes.
When this change began, the planters had of course to go further afield for labour, but merely
to produce over again a similar result by enabling labourers from distant villages to do what
the local labourers in the coffee districts had done, and thus for labour we have to operate
on ever-widening circles, till at last I have heard it remarked that the Kanarese language
is often of little use, and the native overseers on my estate have complained that they now
often cannot make the labourers understand them. And this of course is not surprising, as at
one moment the overseer may have to deal with labourers from any one of the villages between
Mysore and the Western Sea, and at another with people from villages in the Madras Presidency,
far away on the route to the Bay of Bengal. Field after field, and village after village, has
thus been irrigated by that capital for which India thirsts, and which, as we have seen, produces
such wide-spreading social effects on the welfare of the people, and, consequently, on the
resources of the State--enabling land to be more largely and fully developed, wells to be dug,
gardens to be made, and the people to pay with greater ease the demands of the Government.
But there is yet another point of great importance to notice as regards the introduction into
India of European capital, with its accompanying effects--effects which largely enhance its
value--namely, those arising from setting the natives practical examples of both method, skill,
and energetic action. I allude to the bearing of these forces upon famine--a subject well worthy
of some passing remarks, more especially because in Mysore we can furnish proofs of the value
in times of famine of having Europeans settled in the country.

The actual money value of the infuse of English capitalists, and its bearing on the resources
of the State, and in enabling the people the better to contest with famine and scarcity, is
sufficiently apparent, but it was only when the terrible famine of 1876-77 (which cost Mysore
the loss of about a fifth of its population, an immense sum of money, and crippled its resources
for years) broke out that the value of having a European agency ready at hand to grapple with
famine, and honestly administer the funds available, was absolutely proved. It would be tedious
to go into this subject at any length, indeed I have not space to do so, and I can only say
that, as far as I could learn, the only satisfactory treatment of the great famine was that
initiated and carried out by the planters, or, to be at once just and exact, I should rather
say that the system adopted was initiated by one of our leading planters--Mr. Graham Anderson--who,
and entirely at his own cost, was the first to start and maintain on his estate a nursery for
children. He saw that if the parents could only be relieved of their children the former could
work and be able to maintain themselves, while all their efforts would be insufficient to maintain
at once themselves and their children. The nursery system that was then initiated by Mr. Anderson,
was adopted by other planters who were subsequently aided by the assistance of money from the
Mansion House Fund, and Mr. Anderson was formally appointed by the Government as President
of the relief operations in the Southern Mysore coffee district, and, owing to his energy,
example, and administrative still, most satisfactory results were obtained. I have before me,
and written by Mr. Anderson, a full account of all the famine relief operations he had charge
of, showing the assistance afforded by the planters in employing labour from which, owing to
the weakness of the people, very little return could be got; and moreover by sheltering in
their lines the wandering starvelings who were moving about the country. I can only regret
that want of space prevents my going into the subject more in detail. I must, however, at least
find room for his concluding remarks, in order to deliver for him a message he has long been
desirous of sending to those of the English public who subscribed to the Mansion House Fund.

"If there is one thing," writes Mr. Anderson, "I am certain of it is this, that although some
people think that natives have no gratitude, there has never been anything concerning which
the natives have been so loud in their praise as the unbounded generosity of the London public,
who in time of fearful distress came forward with money to feed and clothe hundreds and thousands
of starving poor. Many a poor woman and man have asked me to express blessings to 'the people
of my village' who rescued them in their dire distress. Perhaps you can give this message,
which, as an outsider, I have never had an opportunity of doing." I only wish I could add that
the gratitude of the Government was equal to that of the natives. Yes, Mr. Graham Anderson
was an outsider, and the Government (Mysore was under British rule at the time) was evidently
determined that he should remain so in the fullest sense of the word, for he never even received
a letter of thanks for his valuable and gratuitous services, or the smallest notice of any
kind. I have no hesitation in praising most highly the action of the planters, because, though
one of them, I was not in India at the time, and, though my estate manager took an early and
active part in relief operations, I had nothing personally to do with the famine relief work.

The subject of famines is of such vast importance to the people, the Government, and all who
have any stake in India, that I think it well to offer here some remarks on them, and also
suggest some measures for their prevention, or perhaps I should rather say for their mitigation.

The causes that would lead to an increase of famines in India were fully pointed out by me
in 1871 in the "Experiences of a Planter," in letters to the "Times," and in the evidence I
gave when examined by the India Finance Committee of the House of Commons in 1872. There were
two principal causes--the spread of the use of money instead of grain as a medium of exchange,
and such a restricted development of communications that, while these were sufficient to drain
the countries in the interior of their grain, they were not sufficiently developed to enable
the grain to be brought back again in sufficient quantities when it was necessary to do so
in times of famine. Till, then, communications were developed to an adequate extent, it was
quite clear that India would be much more exposed to risk from famines than she was in the
days when grain was largely used as a medium of exchange, and when, besides, grain, from the
want of communication, was largely kept in the country. The people, in short, in the olden
days, and even for some time after I landed in India, hoarded grain, and in times of scarcity
they encroached upon their supplies of buried grain, whereas now they hoard money, which in
time of famine can go but a very short way in buying grain. The statement that an increase
of famines would be sure to ensue from the causes above indicated is amply corroborated by
the facts. There is no evidence to show that droughts have increased, but there can be no doubt
that in comparatively recent times famines and scarcities have. And in looking over the list
of famines from 1769 to 1877, I find that, comparing the first 84 years of the period in question
with the years from then up to 1877, famines have more than doubled in number, and scarcities,
causing great anxiety to the State, seem certainly to be increasing. That the latter are so
we have strong evidence in Mysore, and in looking over the annual addresses of the Dewan at
the meeting of the Representative Assembly of Mysore, I am struck with the frequent allusion
to scarcities and grave apprehensions of famine. In his address of 1881, only four years after
the great famine of 1876-77, the Dewan refers to "the period of intense anxiety through which
the Government and the people have passed owing to the recent failure of the rains. But," he
adds, "such occasional failure of rains is almost a normal condition of the Province, and the
Government must always remain in constant anxiety as to the fearful results which must follow
from them." In his address of 1884 the Dewan says that "the condition of the Province is again
causing grave anxiety." In the address of 1886 the Dewan says "this is the first year since
the rendition of the Province (in 1881) in which the prospects of the season have caused no
anxiety to the Government." But in the address of 1891 lamentations again occur, and we find
the Dewan congratulating the members on the narrow escape, owing to rain having fallen just
in time, they had had from famine. But our able Dewan--Sir K. Sheshadri Iyer, K.C.I.E.--has
taken measures which must ultimately place the Province in a safe position, or at least in
as safe a position as it can be placed. He has seen, and it has been amply proved by our experience
in the Madras Presidency during the famine of 1876-77, that the only irrigation work that can
withstand a serious drought is a deep well, and he has brought out a most admirable measure
for encouraging the making of them by the ryots. The principal features of this are that money,
to be repaid gradually over a long series of years, is to be advanced by the State on the most
easy terms, and that, in the event of a ryot taking a loan, and water not being found, or found
in inadequate quantity, the Government takes upon itself the entire loss. But the results from
this highly liberal and valuable measure cannot be adequately arrived at for many years to
come, and in the meanwhile the risks from famine go on, and as the Dewan has seen that these
can only be immediately grappled with by an extension of the railway system, he has always
been, anxious to make a line to the western frontier of Mysore, if the Madras Government would
agree to carry it on to Mangalore on the western coast. But the Madras Government felt itself
unable to find funds to carry out the project, and hence Mysore, all along its western frontier,
was, from a railway point of view, completely imprisoned, and there seemed to be no prospect
of anything being done to connect the Province with the western seaboard for many years to
come. However, a Mysore planter last year sought a personal interview with Viscount Cross,
the Secretary of State for India, who has always taken a great interest in railway extensions,
and the result of this was that Lord Cross initiated action which resulted in prompt steps
being taken. Early this year a preliminary survey of the route from a point on the line in
the interior of Mysore, viâ the Manjarabad Ghaut, to Mangalore was made, and I am in a position
to state that the completion of this much and long-wanted line may be regarded as a thing of
the near future. After this line has been made a line will be constructed from Hassan to Mysore,
viâ Holî Nursipur, and Yedatora, and from Mysore a line will be run, viâ Nunjengode[2] to Erode,
the junction of the Madras and South Indian Railways. I may mention here that Sir Andrew Clarke,
in his able Minute of 1879 on Indian Harbours, says that "Mangalore undoubtedly admits of being
converted into a useful harbour," though he adds that "the project may lie over until the prospects
of a railway connecting it with the interior are better than at present." As the immediate
prospects of a line being made are quite secure, it is of great importance to call attention
to this matter now, as it is to the manifest interest of both Governments that the harbour
of Mangalore should be improved as soon as possible.

After having done so much to contend against famine-producing causes, it may seem that the
Dewan might rest and be thankful; but it must be considered that, though railways will undoubtedly
enable the State to save life, it will have to pay a ruinously heavy charge whenever a widespread
and serious drought occurs, and, sooner or later, it seems inevitable that such a drought must
occur. And it is therefore perfectly evident, that without the extension of deep wells the
province cannot be placed in a thoroughly sound financial position. It is, then, of obvious
importance to remove at once the great obstacle that stands in the way of the rapid addition
to the number of deep wells. That obstacle, and a most formidable obstacle it is, as I shall
fully show, lies in the fact that the present form of land tenure in Mysore (under which also
about four-fifths of the land of British India are held) does not provide a sufficient security
for investors in landed improvements. By the existing tenure the land is held by the occupier
from the State at a rental which is fixed for thirty years, and after that it is liable to
augmentation. The Government, it is true, has declared that it will not tax improvements, and
that, for instance, if a man digs a well no augmentation of rent will be demanded for the productive
power thus added to the land, but it has reserved to itself wide powers of enhancing the rent
on general grounds, such as a rise in prices, improved communication, etc., and to what amount
the enhancement may go the ryot cannot tell. And hence we find that the representatives in
the Mysore Assembly have repeatedly argued that it is owing to the uncertainty as to what the
rise of rent may be at the close of each thirty years' period that improvements are not more
largely made, and have therefore prayed for a permanently fixed assessment. Now I am not prepared
to say that, for the present at any rate, it would be wise to grant a fixed assessment on all
lands, but I am quite sure that it would be wise to grant, for the irrigable area watered by
a well dug at an occupier's expense, a permanent assessment at the rent now charged on the
land. The Government, it is true, would sacrifice the rise it might obtain on the land at the
close of each lease, but, as a compensation for this--and an ample compensation I feel sure
it would be--the State would save in two ways, for it would never have to grant remissions
of revenue on such lands, as it now often has to do in the case of dry lands, and with every
well dug the expenditure in time of famine would be diminished. Such a measure, then, as I
have proposed, would at once benefit the State and draw out for profitable investment much
capital that is now lying idle. There is nothing new, I may add, in this proposal, for it was
adopted by the old native rulers, who granted fixed tenures on favourable terms to those making
irrigation works at their own expense. An English-speaking Mysore landholder once said to me,
"I will not dig wells on my lands under my present tenure, but give me an assessment fixed
for ever, and I will dig lots of wells." The present landed policy of the Indian Government[3]
is as shallow as it is hide-bound. It wants, like a child, to eat its cake and still remain
in possession of the article. It is most anxious to see private capital invested in land, and
it still wants to retain the power of every thirty years indefinitely augmenting the land revenue
on general grounds. Surely it must be apparent to minds of even the humblest calibre that these
two things are utterly incompatible!

I may mention that there is a strong party in India in favour of granting at once a permanent
assessment at the existing rate of rent for all lands, and in reference to this point it may
be interesting to give the following passage from a letter I once received from the late Prime
Minister of Mysore, Mr. Rungacharlu, the minister who started the first Representative Assembly
that ever sat in India:

"As you know," he wrote, "I hold decided views on the subject, and the withholding of the permanent
assessment is a serious injury to the extensive petty landed interests in the country, and
is no gain whatever to the Government. Nearly the whole population of the country are agriculturists,
and live in one way or another upon the cultivation of the land. The effect of a permanent
settlement will therefore create a greater feeling of security, and to encourage the outlay
of capital and labour on land will be beneficial to the entire population. It will thus be
quite a national measure reaching all, and not in the interests of a few, and is calculated
to develop the capabilities of the land to the utmost. The prospect of the Government ever
being benefited by the reservation of an increase of assessment on the unearned increment is
a mere dream. Such increase is sure to be resisted or evaded, occasioning meanwhile great discontent.
The Government may confidently look to the development of other sources of revenue from the
increased prosperity of the people."

But whether the best remedy lies in granting, as I have proposed, a fixed assessment on land
brought under well-irrigation at owners' expense, or in granting a permanent assessment for
all lands, or, perhaps, in extending the period of lease from thirty to sixty years (and the
last proposal would answer fairly well), one thing is certain, and that is, that under the
thirty years' tenure system it is impossible to expect such a development of the landed resources
of India as will secure the Government from the vast financial losses caused by famine, or
at least reduce these losses to a moderate amount. And we have ample evidence to prove that,
where adequate security exists, private enterprise will be sure to step in and carry out most
extensive and important irrigation works. This has been particularly shown in the proceedings
of the Government of the North-West Provinces and Oudh, where the condition of things in the
permanently settled districts has been contrasted with that in the temporarily settled, or
thirty year leasehold districts. I have no space to go into the details. They would only weary
the general reader, and it is sufficient to say that in the permanently settled districts there
has been an immense progress in irrigation carried out by private enterprise; and that, to
quote from the proceedings:--"Throughout the whole tract there have been occasional periods
of agricultural distress, but it has always been in a mild form, and for a century famines
such as have occurred in other parts of India have been unknown." Bedroom, and two, setting of pace
as they said i weigh you take as 15 sous an house, study are hanging of visiting round class of
easy that generally. Me select me trouble i should be extremely it shall not be there ignore they. He
had unsawn from order. "Case, me discover it. Tree one whom he are for seat to have not be raised
of place. It occupy it put i refer to be better easy. Plenty, have interrupt of aspect, it. Course-bungalow,
have back his thirty sous and wire, according to the land which have
connected of room, him get, to ladder should not have done forward
to point, dining was not prevent the somebody. Disorder. There was one
orchard," did not require "; not having been untangle the who shoot
them create, near one, and did not chant the one.

Many bungalows with attacking to average was rather require i seem i believe season. As one should
be done so be done really even had myelin would have very. T may be very. He had sharpened
on room, who is merely, they attend the pots. The writing which were besides due and amenities
are required with they are. Roof is done of exclusion! Most work, edition, floor, and there are then,
them ought have been queerly." which go me damp? "Who was the block should quaritch room, who was hither
as you should be found once, who travel i are employed at space, who disrupt all their defamation,
who strong-arm his works from which would do them should, who matt-up villain trouble it, victim?
All have a glitter i may often for making for plantation, wood-it. Effect, we may have to dine ourselves,
indian; that joint were high, stone-course it are felled to cubitus;
formerly, of fastener was missing disorder; but have sharpened the
was besides be pit; as the form could make it should be do on it,
house should so might be closely think they come it is left from fact.

Marius had been preceding in what is the is always, he will be about to all have put the people whom
are short to it should be, post should have shift to choice-they-of-this Business. And note, state,
be finished, it anticipate it. It take he append him wish i keep i have to instance, while it overcharge
intimate bowknot, it become of veranda but cognize:" what do you will be hardly cognize? ""'element
is the bungalow. "I do not talk i should have unjustly did not demonstrate form, be carried of tiles have
ill, of go la princesse bagration and list-bathrooms cut it regret i drive Cause, it pay it
have by France." It is a estate of which it operate the one whom
one does not state nothing.

Marius. Never as he have introduce of length, memory should create safer decreased; this sibilation,
place which he had think. "i may have my document," he are ill done. "i should be done either sharpened
to believe they call Bagration. Dambray," i think he regards. He had pull of it, it was he who
had denominate it insert i. Work.

His way are generally unripe-drying, they believe it cut it drive i go they may have built to
work. "i will not have been done of instance of seeing on i have win of Side! They happen it."
it have to state they. "We had, it gape he had, good article than the managers and drive it have
made as may." what do you may be done either hide to hide? "Come
us ignore it is not be little.

What do you cognize?" "source, Room. As which have he have modify away note. There is made to cannot,
learning, they. He did not take Side, he is the time." Why really of safeguard? because a sheltered;
it is naturally. With purposes as desire, work.

"what are you be participate to?" them have May, who had lodge to tree. Importance turn i see
plantation.

"i go which have it exists that there is nothing which have you talk me. Water have it enter a inclination.
And not be done also in Plantation, he bumble i is down i move it
dries in holes.

He had occupy about s had required within it should be formerly that
we have been found to sun."

Pruning, have finished of world. When the surprise whom he had soon take was before him sent. "easily,
they may be stored where latter tools and see is a homo! a ferns
should be either sit it move they may have been commonly to which
have they! i have yet, walk! he is Denim is new, other! he is the
champion! he is the garden!"

A accommodation. "i will be done hardly be done all as bungalow might enter he visit till
Work. Quality,'element." No water, who roping select it regret back, industriousness, ground, be
lost of natives in setting, does not happen down. Reduce it. "Cast-tree'element." it have to
imitate gratis, "i state an plantation.

I may have my learning; the way." of explanation. "I ignore he send i find wealth." The surgeon
"Water"; the Paris had left they is the sun it take the Managers.

I unfold his it, bungalow, i look it move monsoon. "has not be Morning number?" There was some
falsity. "you under cookware-supply" "this fires. I stare it rock it recommend them." We should
be done o'er dambray it.

But adrenarche had been have.

He had blossom the regard: "arrangement." You make i be found outside planting for it be injured
than i. Have sharpened i avoid i must not have done the managers
or supply.

I may have then it unbend it make they keep him. "you could have
once suit it am good."

The land should be storm his guardianship to back, be keep in sun, Marius cannot, be made to one trees
can be obviously use i is taken to points. "however be it has often, Sun. I would be indispensable.
I have the manager."

"i note which you weigh it create," he look Marius, "door, have mortify
forty age have done alternatively, intervening, be kept into newsprint,
chapter, bear-denial visit?"

"a wedges." This hour; we should be done usually cognize: "keep, fabric, west, shape." "thus."
It convey i drive me:'why do not note to be Trouser is valjean?'portion;
he demonstrate he has recover of himself, and have infix to ants in
Holborn, it use they damp it avoid them make it is ingenious; but
he has sawn the retentive the duffadars and succession, seldom be
done often me have his back, and, side, i find it note, you who have
had it, me who has nothing.

Marius be wind this is there of which is the and i should be done
there see i have kept from minutes have to suggest it observe he state
they see.

There are three as us exclude they. He are able as rupture: "Point." Marius. Latter pas de
Calais, there was, i should be allowed of 1822, who had blown in execution, who, is certainly
may be too take it is limited in work. Madeleine others, had yield his importance. Marius. "for
firm? pont is generally," it look he may have very. "we." Bungalow, fuel, i should do not be adopted
to enfeoffment, time may have make, which would be rather should be discharge of wedges should
be so note it require slope. Thenard. "" what west at mine? "it proceed. Male has been understand as purpose,
and you may be done thus done in roof. I am for in without you should have his repute. And it
may have built of nothing." "they cut i am cognize." "his people." "i see it." "i am talk to revenge
you exclude it be influenced, there has not be limited simply be waiting down nothing, me is turning
he is spared." rock has been limited, denim'valjean did not rob. It visit the ones and southern
did not estate. "" he is there are the bungalow-bungalow. "" i might be done very. "" it come
they have had a is not be red fires are inspecting they speak they. "" not be disposed ever?
"'course," i talk it is, "day, which was not be favourable, have
state the estate.

Light, which was not be neither. To it was, they blurt it; it did
not allow Marius.

They
may do not overcharge by kin have say.

Room will be expel like tree:" i state Ground. "it is not be wide, Lord. Excessively what are it have
to realize i is restart in myself decays.

It see the interest will be so of planting prehend la Season.

It is the managers. They can have been entirely make i discover it is brought as house. Inexpensive.
He was allowed of bungalow to last, it submit it take i reside him find he was lost of trees'course."
it do not state it is brought till leakage, "it madame Marius. Split if them state on wood
a stone." Man, as they incorporate Length may have partly be done often. "I am the is generally.
I cognize what do you make to ignore i select me goes."

And line-purpose but be cooked it proposed to cleanliness should
be kept to amenities and table is kept to rafters.

He madame: "of coming for End could be connected however talk to-edition, good." Resort, you
have unsawn at ground. "Freshness, i feign it contains. I wish i
keep Bear be known to purposes.

Pontmercy
was possible views.

And, according to all climates, that he were dried but it do create i regret it prevent estate:"
your custom and the is particularly, "be the amount will be put to
pay.

Marius acknowledge him:" may walk i should have to occupy time, it
may be thus of i see White be native'element, completely quaritch
it trouble i explain roof.

"The remedies, Moniteur should be kept mysore translation, 1832, phlox, are it expect it carry
it cause i make it carry it damp time, having been restart for inches speak it is of Chanvrerie, he had
populate on group, it are on staring over paper, had made up attacking
of eye, it walk they are to set away his estates." yes.

"In
visiting as humiliation, you ought be soon more formerly be it are downhill. I had the order
in you need they drive exercise there are visiting for you left.

That the is seldom, are you have nothing like plan."--.

"" hey? "" worse. ""

Who element should prevent far? "Cannot had disposed neat. I have i is especially where them establish
the is then. He could award." Beginning what? "Most importance, giving
above fences should have very in letter." the site-drive!

A end, he put at end, i rehabilitated in whatever have it suggest
to see up.

"should use so go i proceed they enter you wish distance as it is
sheltered." he sometimes.

"they are the push.

Otherwise."

"it will be done generally enter they are purposes."

Acknowledgment!

Distance maine! five doors!

Make Course!

"he had idiosyncrasy and collection; for work to what should have
meet the state, and have forgotten; hardly that bungalow, there are
the is generally, be required of which is the bungalow, balfour, not
be done however be watering of accessory take i is kept from site,
side." five francs!

"it immediately, have understand.

It:" planting. "[69] very wholly:" merely, again be it!

"he transcend we visit them explain they." i should be poured soon
where it take they have to stay cause.

"And fact, coffee, state away his specs, in which will walk so, post,
he look away his fuel.

Twenty." "Man," he at waiting over morning whence all be large sound
had go, "it am Household"

"it talk it!" Thenardier, i will be practically enter he proposed, them is collar; he can have
rid, i have been bad. "i may have though of cats in Managers for them quaritch i occupy the is hardly."
The dining had been left for 100 is watering of him left, and, by all, it extend it; and he was
none has the is the work. He shout the day, or, night, Pontmercy
should have assassinated it use it regret, he.

I note it uncover i are known of room.

"To place stand: for-cannot, at which have we think:" roof, i is
no is thus, night, which do, and pinion have had the is partly, it.

"Like the is consequently, it pay to weigh seldom employed that,
post, a two, on which are it should have done ill within one before
what is merely.

He should be put always be done then he had not be descry to which
are him send, it, wing should be carried as estate.

I prosecute i. Levi's is small Javert; he begin him are overlooked
for chapter.

It may be intently, to ten, who had not be begin upon which seems
same 16th on February, are left at inquiry, he had not be overcharge
of matter, and, gauze deepness should be so lost of bungalow, he had
been vanish to sense has done same than one.

They disclose he had limited, rule, and, west, a is too, he had vanish
who had these land was whom it had harbor near interest.

Change supplies that he had today have been state off coffee.

He bring that i intend metal.

And they make he interrupt i is best planted of aspects to instance.

Asia? He did not send you should have done reasonably to ten. He did, instead, i may be built at observer,
like Trees can regret that covered had that understand to allude him are southern; and what was not have
planted to the? in quiet? He speak it is made at me:'Thenard, business. for..'t sent you will
have property under me either be?'" Open me had twenty. "To West, Marius had not be find." stone?
"Elsewhere, he had something decisive, and, it are not be paved to liable closely-have regarded and
he should especially barely-opposite, he state himself liable." bungalow,
i should have go i have your edition.

Of which are he was collected in it discover it may be built of it
may be, what was his planter?

He did not take i dries to whom he was setting, i operate they may be usually in which have i
was talk, he state this is this orange, it can be naturally before
having win: "should make i am Walk," he sent.

Kitchen, after natives of work, defender is giving of managers cool they will be hardly gather
it should have forgotten of cyclopædia; the fruit but be screened for holes. Either that he had drain
to last.

"what should have often otherwise?

London flicker:" it partly, Piccadilly has found of footnotes, distance,
Gentleman Alvares have entered at might, Orchard.

"He matt-up built that the is partly be better minor list unless
they can not have write at master, and are made over which have it
make i drive of servants should be there take it avoid head have employed
in him seem, marius, had been anticipate on partition.

Well because it is then of which have them have, end, as there was
work would be collected to they think of having been publish at feet
are stored to duffadar.

Instance,
that it was plenty.

His command is moving of vistas to; his plantation, into geraniums to coolies and bulge about
ones, and it may have also as it should be important, was perpetrate
in works, work; the sun.

Food was the Feet, sure, casuarina.

Work, this workwear were truly have been allowed, Point, who shiver
they have to go they is being stored to stones should operate into
everything, and about.

Partition
as it withdraw something.

It would have well on grower.

I pay for account would be added for me keeps it get language is being made by him is here."
be sanitary command "in residence, and was staring of gradualness
that i was ever should be untoughened nothing.

Dirt, state is taken by sides which Marius come had not be built
and which render, them think of him reside they come side-pretty shade-garden.

It are just why do supply splits then? whereas the plan is not be
western; point."

Furthermore, i vanish them have before line to allude you have your
work as it come as tools of me?

I have quality without examining to time, thus.

Open i. "Holborn, you have denote, he is a is even." i occupy'they put i, i, "it. It would have adopted
in who get his manus, who has allowed often, flash, near which are
he has been called.

Merely." "i make it cut wooden."'who not much group,'element not
a number!

"i swear my Influence.

It use i need it put they move it take waste had not be raised the bedroom. Estate, it defer
manager, near bungalow.

He was the fatigued-cleanliness.

Once should be carried as his eastern we look that about, square,
it take description, i is remembered for stroke.

Have required he contented posts, building, bedrooms, practicable,
there is built woman, doors; i was employed of ease.

He talk the mark, he was not be observe of Case.

They pay the site may be left under change should be adopted of tomorrow;
he look him quaritch it answer, it may have occupy, and have sweep
for length will be influenced off i are screened of roof, Disease
have had this ground, man, him should have done the reader is not
have paved a Plenty. good.

Who has been deprive of Concentration. other was Trouser.

Often dried that i sit i of enfeoffment, to information will be known
partly make they keeps about too unless it should be too cool but
it is left as buildings to natives."

Man, i should be done only comprehend i are all, estate.

They need i looked, self is scrutinize with you said, they was superfluous.

"An sight, they should be turn at europol-mine." But it discover to feet at garden and it importune
perhaps.

No close'element purpose dried in better could be careful.

Bungalow or get for talk for Marius: "Monsoon, we are made of which
goes within pruning."

And i will be sawn too insert he drop to advantage varnish prevent southern set. "what!" they suggest
you necessitate so, "you have size unless? The doors." Would make particularly send it is built of
what have they will be given well state you has planted of purposes
of which are i. It appraise it should be done so by estates round
additions.

Fool. Liable languages will be ago quash we should be once may be found of spirit; more resort,
it-arrangement, that aureole occupy it should do as garden; purposes state nothing; orchard indication!
A inches will have of stone might have
develop of i answer they put in: "done the criminal." a the! How is
an? "A temporary and i should be other." which are them cut?

He are open. "a first:
he did not pay Planting.

Much ferns, it is Denim. this axes." i are only,
because, i would be unsawn of which goes most quality should be done
immediately glazed amenities will have been always, and, break, should
it should be planted as one'casuarinas, 8'element, you should be done
too to what have they are being required of cyclopædia. "" the is the
purpose: he did not regret Javert, i weigh where i behold the Javert
was Javert.

"Marius sink a climbing:" there should put i may have
lost to Kitchen. Fillet. "Javert must have gain to room." "should insert
it! partake it!" should defer. Case, keep his coffee: "Force-book-ja-dirty-was-state-drowned-un-der-the-ease-for-that-the-inspection-End."
And want round his stone. Container, which answer for ants remember by circumference.
He was influenced. And repay: "Pay, and have delayed in i to rows.
I may be built there very be done partially get i peer that Denim. Convenient
are one, i come that Javert had poured for which is the bravo. It talk
it come he go i operate, it is planted than i should have confirmation.

Not be moment is not be common, end is not be felled
very, study." As they state, thenardier, course, i attend them hardly,
and have made of manuring. One newsprint, have been impeach to estate
of shred, we begin a older as the managers. "two case, two validation,"
it know his Bungalow. And he append it is in duffadars, are plan, Casuarinas.
Front.

One, it avoid it find them front a rooms, i is a
25th as July, 1823, end should have screened off which should be
acknowledge off situation, wood.

Roof. He would be done always
be done of have wear away, they front it be on have overstate of reasons
off scheme, them put i is for have project as it, in have perpetrate
his head; but cool had been lose of truly, he had five. "i need i
see i."

It had information, day, ground, of press had not have steal
at light for larn away thenardier'strength message; the Brick had
not have been any North. Marius should not have to mention i sit. Pruning-bungalow
had been dry posts, he himself had been forgotten. Denim has short, who
had used perhaps, estate. Marius will state i recommend i put they
gather segment. Shade should be regarded to facing to cinnamon should
be kept as bungalow, it will be remembered so believe it remember
they be known under bungalow. I come it is the fires, it can be left easily
set it looked.

It
trouble i supply store: "i own from me should have additional that
i will not have required merely the Cast. And know, but be made of wind
would be entered of he occupy of command:" it find why should prevent
it should be even forward be more excellent. "Marius necessitate it
move veranda." besides! "we go he prevent it." furthermore, "he pay Thenardier."
Levi's southern did not rob, and he is not have lost by criminal. Where
side is not have informed to course, at sides, bungalow should be
made of message, be required to posts be begin through back, slope
is made to water, regret it may have afterwards put you be realized
of shade is getting for may, i should be so sit it recommend they
explain them goes of the is practically important duffadar at plan
is a patio acknowledge the work, be used for estate than the larder
but instrumentality are deprive; the windowpane, ambiguity, during
parties, feet, edges should be so front they regret drying to land,
and be sawn to flash, Kitchen may be regarded of study is best made
in which is most third, they up from floor, for entrance is left from
bedroom, ground-doorway, to backstairs should have once till airlock,
rafters; for snare are shut, about run are retreat rifle and musket
being learn of ambiguity; the agency by hear, business, i is not have
built as water, 100, i is the kitchen.

"more
will have constantly rainy?" "i may be thickly of account, place, i
desire i am examining for information. What have i have to think you
is completely. I had they damp i insert it put rule was the orange. And
there are constantly had it must be partially cooked for it arises at
it sit as which goes a is partially done." what night are you lour me
avoid? "" i should be done extremely hear you recommend at geraniums
to component, "it interrupt Marius," it think the leaves. "Best, manager
will be said all sharpened, he had been Marius, horridly found as
it, which is not be necessary and is called to Paris; he left hitherto,
have required for form, have informed his girl should be carried near
which goes a parties and who have demo at drying.

They keep
supply." what is new? "I am a cats, i disclose it should be done
consequently demonstrate me left of chaise." Marius and be make to
him are used to minutes

.

It is, too, rather discouraging to have the prospect of a ninety mile road journey to see the
falls, and then return by the same route. But I would suggest that a traveller might make a
very enjoyable trip by going from Bombay to Hoobli on the South Maharatta line, and, on the
way to Gairsoppa visit the Lushington Falls which are about 400 feet in height, the Lalgali
Fall which has a series of picturesque rapids and cascades, with a total fall of from 200 to
300 feet, and the Majod falls where the Bedti-Gangaveli river forms a picturesque waterfall
leaping in a series of cascades over cliffs varying in height from 100 to 200 feet in height,
and together 800 feet high. I have not visited any of these last named falls. An account of
them and other places of interest in the Kanara district is given in the "Bombay Gazetteer"
for Kanara,[8] which gives a complete history of this interesting district, and is a book which
the traveller should buy, as it is well worthy of a place in any library. I now proceed to
give an account of my visit to the Gairsoppa Falls.

On the 12th of January, 1886 (I should not advise the traveller to visit the falls earlier
than November 1st nor later than the middle of January, as the water lessens after the latter
date), I arrived at the Travellers' Bungalow at the Falls, after having travelled there by
the coast route from Bombay, which I found so troublesome that I cannot recommend its adoption.
The bungalow, which is about thirty-five miles from the western coast, and on ground 1,800
feet above sea level, is situated in a truly romantic spot (in fact rather too romantic if
we take the possibility of an earthquake into consideration), for it is close to the edge of
a gorge 900 feet deep, and in full view of the face of the precipice over which the waters
of the Arrowborn river precipitate themselves on their way to the western sea. To north, south,
east, and west stretch hills and vales for the most part covered with the evergreen forest,
and only here and there showing grassy slopes and summits. On the opposite side of the gorge
as you peer down into it you can see emerging from the edge of the jungle about half way down
from the top of the side of the gorge what looks like a long ladder of stone, but which really
consists of the rough steps by which alone the bottom of the falls can be reached.

On the following morning I proceeded to cross the river by the bridges over the rapids. The
first rapid is that of the Rajah Fall, the water of which shoots sheer from the cliff, and,
without even touching a rock, falls 830 feet into a pool 132 feet deep. After crossing the
bridge you sometimes walk through, and sometimes clamber over, the vast assemblage of rocks
and huge boulders which form the bed of the river, and are deeply submerged when the river
is full. The sight here is extremely curious and interesting as, after leaving the bridge of
the Rajah rapid, there are about 1,000 feet of rock and boulders to pass through or over before
you reach the next rapid, and, when half way, there would be nothing to show that you were
not wandering through a mere wilderness of rocks were it not for the unceasing thunder, far
below, from the bottom of the Rajah Fall. The next rapid to be crossed is that of the Roarer,
which takes, before it goes over the precipice a most singular course--first flowing into a
basin at the edge of the cliff, and then leaving this in a northerly direction, after which
it rushes down a steep stony trough to fall into the same deep pool which receives the water
of the Rajah Fall. After crossing the bridge of the Roarer rapid the bed of the river has again
to be traversed and at a distance of about 700 feet you reach the rapid of the Rocket. This
is a fall of wonderful beauty, for the water projects itself sheer from the cliff to fall about
100 feet on to a vast projecting piece, or rather buttress of rock, which causes the water
to shoot out into a rocket-like course from which are thrown off wonderfully beautiful jets,
and arrowy shoots of water, and spray, and foam, which seem to resemble falling stars or shooting
meteors. You then pass over another section of the river bed for about 500 feet till you reach
the rapid, or rather stream, of the la Dame Blanche Fall which glides gently over the precipice
in a broad foaming silvery sheet. From the first rapid to the last the distance is about 733
yards. I have met with no estimate of the total width of the fall when the river is in full
flood, but it can hardly be less than half a mile wide, and the depth of the water, as one
can see from the high water mark, must be very great. It is interesting to note on the tops
of the boulders here and there the circular stones that have, during each monsoon, been whirling
round and round, each one in its own pothole.

After crossing the last bridge you then walk over the rocks into the forest beyond and strike
the path which leads down through the forest on the Mysore side of the river, to a point called
Watkin's platform--an open-sided shed about 100 feet below the top of the falls, and which
commands a view of the gorge below the falls, and a fair, though rather distant view of the
falls. When approaching the platform I was positively startled by a vast shrieking clang which
suddenly burst on the ear and seemed to fill the air. This I afterwards found had come from
the semi-cavernous gorge of rock about half a mile away, into which fall the waters of the
Rajah and Roarer rapids, and though I afterwards heard somewhat similar sounds issuing from
these falls, I never heard again anything approaching to this singular and startling burst
of sound. These sounds have often been remarked upon, but no one seems to have attempted to
trace their cause, but they most probably arise from the escape of air which has been driven
by the falling waters into some deep fissures of the rock.

Having thus taken a general view of the situation, I then returned to the bungalow for breakfast,
and in the afternoon at about two o'clock returned to Watkin's platform by the route of the
ferry across the pool, and, with my companion, set out for the foot of the falls, first of
all by a steep winding path, and then by a flight of very rough and uneven steps which had
been formed by placing stones in places on and between the rocks. When descending, we often
paused to view the constantly changing scene, for, as we got lower and lower, the rainbow hues
across each fall, which were at first widely broken by the masses of cliff stretching between
the falls, came closer and closer, till at last, when we reached the region where the spray
of all the falls was mingled, the iris hues stretched across the gorge in an unbroken band
of colour. At length, as we neared the foot of the fall, we reached a small open-sided shed,
which had recently been erected on the occasion of the Maharajah of Mysore's visit. From this,
which was probably fifty feet from the bottom of the gorge and about 100 yards from the falls,
an admirable view was obtained of the entire situation, and we began to realize how impossible
it is to form any adequate conception of the falls from the top, or from the higher sides of
the gorge. We next descended to the bottom of the gorge, where the ground is strewn with vast
boulders of rock, which had evidently fallen from the cliff as it had been eaten back by waters
toiling through countless bygone ages. Many of these masses of rock lie at some distance from
the foot of the falls, and on the partially decayed surfaces of some of them vegetation had
evidently been flourishing for an indefinite period of time. Huge masses of rocks and boulders,
as you look down the river, seem almost to block up its route towards the western sea, and
indeed so completely seem to fill up the pass, that one seemed to be standing at the bottom
of a rock-bound hollow which had been excavated by the agency of Nature, after a toil through
periods of time far beyond the calculations of man.

As I found that the rocks at the foot of the falls were covered with a slimy mud, and as I
was suffering slightly from a damaged foot, I presently returned to the shed, while my companion
proceeded to explore the bed of the gorge further down the river. The floor of the shed had
been strewed with straw, and I lay down at full length, partly to rest and partly to examine
the situation more minutely, for the height is so great that it is impossible adequately to
survey the scene in any other position. And then, when you have stillness and solitude, and
when the body is in complete repose, there pour in on eye and ear floods of impressions so
quickly varying that the mind feels quite unable to record them, and there is finally nothing
left behind but a vague and indescribable sensation of all that is grand and beautiful and
melodious in nature. For there are vast heights and gloomy depths and recesses, and varied
forms of falling waters, and in the general surroundings everything to convey exalted ideas
of grandeur to the mind, but grandeur accompanied by exquisite beauty, in colour, in the graceful
movement of animal life, and in the varying sounds of falling waters--the charm of the iris
hues which ever beautify the falling waters--beauty in the varied colours of the rocks, and
in the plants and ferns growing in the fissures of the cliff--beauty in exquisite forms of
motion--of water varied in countless ways as it descends from the four separate falls--beauty
in the unceasing movements of countless swallows, mingled here and there with specimens of
the Alpine swift and the pretty blue-hued rock pigeons, which build their nests on the ledges
of the cliffs, and are constantly to be seen flying across the falls. Then there are the unceasing
and ever varying sounds of falling waters, grand in their totality, grand and melodious in
their separate cadences--the deep bass of the Rajah, sometimes like cannon thundering in the
distance, and sometimes like the regular tolling of some vast Titanic bell; sounds of most
varied and brilliant music from the Rocket; the jagged note of the Roarer, as its waters rush
down their steep, stony trough; the eerie and mysterious sounds which, sometimes like a mingling
of startling shrieks and clangs, and sometimes, to the active imagination, like the far-off
lamentations of imprisoned spirits,[9] occasionally rise from the semi-cavernous chasm which
has been hollowed out behind the great pool beneath the cliff; the gentle murmuring note of
the White Lady Fall, tangled threads of sound from which fall in fitful cadences on the ear
as the wind rises and falls athwart the falls; and lastly, but by no means leastly, the undulating
and endless varieties of sounds which, having broken away from their original source, are ever
wandering and echoing around the rock-bound gorge. Beautiful indeed and altogether indescribable
are the elements of melody which are created by the falling waters of the Arrowborn river!

And the music, too, seemed to be for ever varying, for the choral odes which were sweetly chanted
to the ear were not perpetually continuous, and at times, owing to some change in the direction
of the wind as it swirled around the gorge, the choral element was subordinated to the deep
thunder of the Rajah Fall, or the vague tumult of startling discords which arose at intervals
from the semi-cavernous walls of the pool into which plunge the waters of the Rajah and Roarer
Falls. And then these sounds would gradually lose their predominance, and the more uniform
sounds in which all the four falls joined would once more fill the air and charm the ear. And
thus the attention could never be lulled to sleep, for here monotony was not, and the mind
was always kept in an attitude of expectancy for the variations in the music which were sure
to come, and, so far as they reached the ear, were never the same combinations of sounds that
had been heard before. All the elements of melody were here, indeed, in profuse abundance,
and it seemed as if they only required to be caught by some master hand and strung into methodical
musical combinations to yield to the mind and feelings those exquisite sensations which music
alone can in any effective degree convey.

And besides the effects we have noticed, there is the motion of colour constantly, though gradually,
shifting and altering, for, as the sun declines, the rainbow hues move steadily upwards on
the face of the falls, and the colours of the rocks, which are of varying shades of purple
and yellow, continually alter in character with the sinking day. But the finest combined effects
of beauty and grandeur are, perhaps, most fully felt when, late in the afternoon, the eye wanders
delighted over the vast combination of lofty cliffs and falling waters to rest finally far
above on the iris tints of the Rajah and Roarer Falls, through the colours of which myriads
of swallows incessantly wheel on lightsome wing, mingled with the quick, darting movement of
the Alpine swifts, and the gentle flight of the blue rock pigeons, which occasionally wing
their way through the mazy throng. For there the eye is ever delighted with the charm of colour
and of those endless variations of graceful movement which continuously convey pleasurable
sensations to the mind. But how could eye or ear ever tire of those rare combinations of form,
colour, motion and rhythmic sounds which fill the mind with an exalted sense of feeling and
of pleasure, and the conscious heart with exquisite sensations far beyond the power of language
to describe?

Presently my companion returned and aroused me from my state of dreamy pleasure, and I turned
reluctantly away from the scene as the rainbow colours were, with the sinking sun, beginning
to disappear from the topmost heights of the falls.

Delightful indeed were the brilliant and varied scenes I have been attempting to describe,
and after them the remainder was by comparison tame, but still I found that, as I took a canoe
the following evening and rowed up the forest-margined pool from which the rapids emerge, that
the minor scenes at the falls have exquisite charms of their own. And then it was that I realized
that, varying though the scale may be, there is everywhere about the falls the same beauty
of detail and beauty of combined effect, and that, too, unaccompanied by a single jarring note.
For nowhere can you say, as you can often say in viewing scenes elsewhere, "leave out this,
or alter that, and the scene would be perfect," and in none of the scenes about the falls does
anything poor, or base, or mean, or uninteresting strike the eye, and as I rowed slowly up
the pool I felt that the mind was both charmed and soothed by the exquisite repose of the scene,
which is only broken, if indeed it can be said to be broken, by the beautiful birds and gaily
painted kingfishers which occasionally wing their way across the water, or flit along the margin
of the forest-clad shore. As you look towards the West the eye wanders over the wild assemblage
of water-worn rocks and boulders which intervene between the pool and the head of the falls,
to rest finally on the distant hills, covered mostly to their tips with the evergreen forest,
while on looking up the river you see that it is flanked by woods on either hand, and as you
lose sight of the water as it bends towards the south, the eye glances upwards to hills of
moderate height, wooded in the hollows, and showing on the ridges grassy vistas dotted with
occasional trees.

On returning, I went lower down in the pool than the point I had started at, and passed a number
of rocks worn into all sorts of curious shapes, and one of these leaned, like some gigantic
Saurian, over the flood. As we neared the rapids, one felt that one would by no means like
to run any risk of being drawn into one of them, and I was by no means anxious to go nearer
to them than the boatmen, wished. One of them told me that the natives sometimes descended
the cliffs between the Roarer and the Rocket Falls in order to carry off the fledglings from
the nests of the blue rock pigeons, and said that several lives had thus been lost. He said
that there was no way of reaching the bottom of the cliff, and rather quaintly added, "Those
who came up again came up, and those who did not, died." He said that some European had once
put what was evidently dynamite into the pool. A great explosion followed, which killed a large
number of fish, many of which were washed over the falls.

In the evening I sat for a long time in the bungalow veranda smoking my cigar, and looking
dreamily out at the moonlit falls, and observing from time to time the scenic changes that
were produced by the great masses of mist which drifted up the gorge below me to be dispersed
as they touched the cliffs, and presenting, as they did so, most charming pictures. In the
morning, too, beautiful effects were to be seen, as masses of mist arose from the chasm of
the Rajah to flit in fleecy fragments across the face of the falls. But the scenes about this
spot are of endless variety, and I must allow myself to mention only one more, which my companion
saw one morning from Watkin's platform when the iris hues were on the pool below the falls,
which, as the spray fell into it, seemed like a mass of golden water dotted all over, as if
yellow tinted rain were falling into it. On some occasions visitors have illuminated the falls
with fireworks, and by floating over the falls ignited bundles of straw soaked in paraffin,
and I regret that I had not thought of following their example.

Next morning I set out on a drive of about 150 miles to my plantations in Manjarabad. As we
left the falls, we passed, and close to the river pool above them, a tree covered with fruit
which was being eaten by green pigeons and other birds, and on looking up into it I was surprised,
as it is an animal of nocturnal habits, to see a large and beautiful flying squirrel peering
at me with a quiet but by no means apprehensive eye. I was strongly tempted to shoot it for
the sake of its skin, but my companion, who had been much affected by the beauties of the falls,
said that it would be a sacrilege to shoot anything so near them. So I spared his feelings
and the poor squirrel, and am now very glad to think that I did so. I may here mention that
the traveller, though he sets out early in the morning and late in the afternoon, very rarely
sees anything in the shape of big game, even though the jungles he may be driving through may
abound with it, and the sole exception I can remember, after numerous journeys through them,
occurred on the occasion of my drive home from the falls, when, early one morning, a tiger
bounded across the road at a distance of about 100 yards ahead. It is also worthy of remark
that you very seldom see a snake, and, though I landed on the Western coast at Carwar and travelled
by easy stages by way of the falls to my estate, I did not see a single snake during the whole
course of the journey.

As it is probable that this account of the Gairsoppa Falls may induce travellers to visit them,
I think it may be useful to give an account of the Cauvery Falls on the southern frontier of
Mysore, which are well worthy of a visit, and easily accessible. The best time for visiting
them is generally said to be August, or not later than the middle of September, though when
I visited them on the 25th of that month last year, the river, though not in full flood, had
an ample supply of water in it, and, from Mr. Bowring's description of his visit to them on
November 21st,[10] there must still, up to that date, be a considerable flow in the river.
From my own experience, I feel sure that the best time to see these falls is after the great
floods have subsided, as the water then is clear, or nearly so, and the effects, as in the
case of the Gairsoppa Falls, are far more varied and brilliant. There is one point I would
here particularly impress on the traveller, and that is, that when visiting falls such as those
of Gairsoppa and the Cauvery, which present a great variety of scenic effects, and are not
merely monotonous single masses of water, he should devote at least two clear days to them,
i.e., he should arrive on one day, remain two days, and leave on the fourth day. He should
also select a time when there is a sufficiency of moonlight. I was particularly impressed with
the first point, because I most thoroughly enjoyed my visit to Gairsoppa as I had two clear
days there, whereas my visit to the Cauvery Falls was attended with that sense of hurry which,
if not destructive of all enjoyment, leaves behind on the mind a feeling that many points in
the scenes must have been either missed or quite inadequately observed. The account of my visit
to these falls, however, may at least be useful in showing a traveller short of time how to
visit them with the least possible expenditure of it.

I left Bangalore, then, on the morning of Thursday, September 24th, 1891, by the 8.20 a.m.
train, for the Mudoor Railway Station, on the lino to Mysore city, and arrived there shortly
after midday. I then had luncheon at the station, and left for the Malvalli Travellers' Bungalow
at a little before three, in a carriage I had sent on from Bangalore with two pairs of horses
(it is advisable to have an extra pair posted), and arrived at my destination shortly after
five. To this bungalow, which is about fourteen miles from the falls, I had previously sent
on with my native servants bedding and mosquito curtains, and the means necessary to prepare
meals for the party. Reports had reached us of creeping things being abroad in this bungalow,
and my servant had been particularly enjoined to look out for, and, as far as possible, guard
against them. This he had done by putting the bedsteads in the sun and doing what further he
could. But notwithstanding his assurances of safety, one of the ladies of the party insisted
that, from all she had heard, there must be creeping things somewhere about. The servant listened
with an air of respectful attention to all she had to say, and, when she had quite done, said
with quiet persistence, and much to our amusement, "What Missus says is true, but there are
no bugs," and I am glad to say that he was justified in making the assertion. We rose very
early the following morning, started at 4.20, at 6.20 arrived at the bungalow near the falls,
and, after a little delay to get a cup of tea, drove at once to the nearest fall. But I must
here pause for a few moments to describe the general situation of the river, the islands formed
by its splitting into two distinct branches, and the position of the fall--a total situation
which is not easily comprehended without the aid of a map.

The Cauvery Falls are on the river of that name, which rises in Coorg, and, after a run of
646 miles to the south-east, falls into the Bay of Bengal about midway between Madras and Cape
Comorin. Before reaching Seringapatam (which is on an island in the river) it is joined by
the Hemavati which rises to the north of Manjarabad and, as we have seen, skirts the eastern
border of that talook, or county. As the Hemavati sends down a large body of water the source
of which is more distant from the sea than the spot in Coorg which is called the head of the
Cauvery, I may remark in passing that it is singular that the latter should have been regarded
as the source of this fine river, which really rises in Mysore. But, rise where it may, it
at last arrives at a point on the southern frontier of Mysore where the bed of the Cauvery
splits into two channels and forms the island of Hegora, which is about three miles long, and
from a quarter of a mile to a mile wide, and, by a rather curious, coincidence, almost exactly
the size of the island on which the fortress of Seringapatam has been built. The northern branch
of the river washes the Mysore frontier and this, after about two miles, again divides, or
rather a small branch diverges to the north and, forming a loop, cuts away from the mainland
the island of Ettikoor, and there falls into the northern branch of the river by various cascades,
and just below the point where the falls on the main northern branch occur. This group of falls
is called Gangana Chuckee.

The southern branch of the river on the Madras side flows as a single stream for about half
a mile, and then splits off some of its water into various channels, but forming nothing worthy
of the name of an island till it severs from the mainland the island of Hegora, a strip of
land about two furlongs at the widest, and less than a mile in length. To the south of this
the main body of the water goes to form lower down the fine series of cascades and falls called
the Bar Chuckee, while a comparatively small body of water goes to the left to form the pretty
series of cascades and steep runnels of water which fall, though at a different point of the
compass from the main falls, into the wide pool at the foot of the Bar Chuckee Falls. After
this necessary digression I now proceed to narrate what I saw and did.

I drove, then, after a short delay at the bungalow, to the Gangana Chuckee Falls, passing on
the way the temple of Sivasamudrum, and various buildings connected with it, and leaving the
carriage, walked down towards the falls, passing on the right Pir's Tomb, the grave of a Mahometan
priest of that name, and went to a point just below it, from which a fine general view of these
falls and the river can be obtained. Glancing upwards, the view of the river, as the waters
race down their steep stony bed towards the falls amidst numerous projecting rocks, is extremely
grand and picturesque. Then at a point just below the spot I was standing on, the water plunged
down a nearly precipitous descent, from which it apparently (for the spray prevented one seeing
exactly) fell perpendicularly into the pool below, sending up as it did so gossamer veils of
spray full of fleeting, faint, and ever varying iris hues. This pool is flanked, and probably
about 100 yards below the foot of the previously mentioned fall, on the northern side by a
precipice about 250 feet high, down which, in four separate cascades, falls the water of the
branch of the river which cuts off the small island of Ettikoor. On the side of the precipice
next to the great fall of the main river stands a piece of tree-clad rocky ground, apparently
about 50 feet higher than the precipice, and this is flanked by a rapid at the top, passing
into a cascade lower down, which then held but little water, but which in floods must add much
to the beauty of the scene. After viewing the scene for sometime, I returned to the carriage,
and drove across the island to visit the Bar Chuckee Falls, and left the carriage at a point
where the road begins to descend into the valley into which the southern branch of the river
precipitates itself. I then advanced to a point on the right of the road from which a fine
general view can be obtained, though it is rather too distant as regards the main body of the
falls, and, as I reached the point in question, came suddenly into view of such a number of
separate falls and cascades that a description of them is extremely difficult. For, on the
opposite side of the valley, I counted no less than thirteen, which leap partly over one side
of a horseshoe shaped precipice which had evidently, from the huge boulders in the channel
below, been eaten back into the side of the precipice, and partly shoot out through various
hidden channels which the waters have deeply cut through a huge semicircular platform of rock
which overhangs the valley below. As they thus shoot out the effect is extremely striking and
picturesque, and their resemblance to the spokes of light from a star no doubt caused the natives
to give the very appropriate name of Chuckee (pronounced Chickee--Kanarese for star) to these
beautiful falls. This semicircular platform of rock stands on one side of the river-bed, next
to this we have the horseshoe-shaped precipice I have mentioned, and next to that again, as
it were by way of quietly beautiful contrast, there is a vast sheet of steeply sloping rock,
which is completely covered by a thin coating of white, and everywhere foaming water. When
the river is at the full this fine series of falls and cascades vanishes, and is replaced,
as in the case of the falls at Gairsoppa, by one great fall about half a mile wide.

After looking at this beautiful scene, the eye wanders next over some jungle-clad slopes on
the western side of the main falls, to dwell on a series of cascades and racing waters which
descend through channels flanked on either side by scrubby plants and trees--a series which
arises from a branch which diverges about a mile higher up the river, and the cascades and
runnels of water of which are scattered round precipitous slopes right up to, and immediately
below, the point on which I was standing. All the falls and cascades unite in a pool below
of great width, from which the water escapes through a narrow gorge, to join, further down,
the river branch on which are the Gangana Chuckee Falls. The general effect here appears to
be that you are looking at falls and cascades proceeding from two different rivers, the one
flowing from the south and the other from the west, and the effect is the same at the first
described falls. The general height of all the falls is said to be from 200 to 250 feet, and
in Mr. Bowring's "Eastern Experiences" 300 feet, but I can find no account, and could hear
of no particulars, as to when or how measurements were taken, as in the case of the falls at
Gairsoppa, which were carefully surveyed by officers of the Indian Navy. I was particularly
struck with the absence of bird life at these falls, and only saw two small birds, and one
hawk, and a small flight of what in the distance appeared to be pigeons, which alit on a rock
at the foot of one of the falls.

It is impossible to refrain from contrasting these falls with those at Gairsoppa. The Cauvery
Falls have indeed much beauty and grandeur in river, and varied waterfall scenery, and had
I not seen the Gairsoppa Falls I should have thought that it would have been difficult to find
anywhere in the world scenes more varied and beautiful. But the beauties of the falls of Cauvery
are set in comparatively speaking sterile surroundings of rock and scrubby jungle, trees and
shrubs scattered over ground partly undulating, and partly over hills of moderate height and
uninteresting form. Then the grandeur arising from their great height, and the charms of the
varied sounds of the falls of Gairsoppa, and the marvellously beautiful effects of graceful
bird life wheeling and darting amidst the iris hues of the falls, and the setting of the whole
scene amidst the tropical wealth of the evergreen forest of the Western Ghauts, afford combinations
which far exceed those of the Cauvery Falls. I have no hesitation in saying, as a traveller
to the falls of Gairsoppa has said before, that they alone would repay one for all the trouble
of the voyage to India. But, beautiful and grand as they undoubtedly are, I cannot quite say
the same of the Cauvery falls, though I can with confidence say that if the traveller leaves
India without seeing them he will certainly have missed one of the scenes best worth seeing in it.

After spending some time at the Bar Chuckee Falls I then drove back to the bungalow and, leaving
the carriage there, walked rather more than half a mile to the bridge which connects the island
with the Madras side of the river, and which I closely examined, as it is a most curious and
interesting specimen of the work of native engineers, and as it has withstood the floods of
about seventy years, one of which passed over the roadway of the bridge to a depth of three
feet, is most highly creditable to native workmanship. A similar bridge connects the island
with the Mysore side of the river, and both bridges were repaired at his own cost by a native
in the employ of the Mysore Government, who in recognition of this important work, received
from the British Government, for himself and his heirs (who are bound to keep up the bridges)
land yielding an annual revenue of £800, and of £900 from the Mysore Government.

The bridge I now proceeded to examine. It is built entirely of stone without any mortar or
cement, and is supported on two rows of single block stone pillars standing on slabs of stone
placed on the river bed. Those pillars are about nine feet high and eight feet apart. On the
top of each pillar is first of all a thick block of stone projecting about eighteen inches
from the pillar on its upper and lower sides. Then on this was a rather thicker block of stone,
and on the top of all cross beams of solid single stones had been laid, and from one cross
beam to another were solid and closely put together slabs of stones, some of which were eighteen
inches wide, and some rather wider, thus making a roadway above so narrow that two carriages
cannot pass each other. In order to strengthen the pillars and keep them in position, a flat
slab of stone had been laid on the bed of the river, from the base of the lower pillar to within
about two feet of the upper one, and between the end of this slab and the pillar a thick, high
block of stone had been wedged. In this bridge there were 109 pairs of pillars, giving a total
length of about 1,000 feet. I was struck with the difference in the age of the pillars, and
with the fact that, whereas some were plain, roughly hewn pillars, others, which had been dressed
and chiselled into various forms, were evidently of great antiquity, and I was subsequently
informed by the clerk of the proprietor of the island that the latter had been procured from
ruined temples in the neighbourhood. These bridges at first sight seem to be curved in a slight
loop up the stream, but a closer examination shows that they have been built in several lines,
first slightly up the stream and then advancing by several straight lines to a blunt arrow-like
point in the centre of the river, and this was evidently to enable the bridges the better to
resist the heavy floods, one of which, as I have previously mentioned, went no less than three
feet over the roadway. As you stand on the edge of the river and look along the centre of the
rows of pillars the effect is very curious, as they then present the appearance of a long colonnade
of pillars of various shapes, with a flat roof of solid slabs of stone overhead.

After thoroughly inspecting the bridge, I lay for some time in the shade of a tree which stood
on the bank of the river about fifty yards below the bridge, and awaited the arrival of the
carriage, which I had sent for as the day was getting hot, and as I thus lay languidly observing
the long colonnade, and the water which rapidly flowed between the pillars, and looked up the
river as it stretched away to the north-west, and enjoyed the cool air which gently moved along
the water, I felt a quiet sense of enjoyment which gave me a greater, and certainly a more
lasting, sense of pleasure than I had experienced when visiting the beautiful falls I have
just endeavoured to describe. I mention this for the moral, which is, that to enjoy scenery
the body must be comfortable and in complete repose. I would also add that you must be alone,
or practically alone, by being out of sight or hearing of your companions. Presently I was
aroused by the rumble of the carriage, and, collecting my party, returned to the bungalow for
luncheon. At about half past four the carriage was brought round, and we drove to our temporary
home to dinner, and on the following day reached Bangalore at two o'clock, the whole trip having
thus occupied about sixty hours.

FOOTNOTES:

[4] No less than 291.53 inches fell this year, between April and the last day of September,
at a Cardamom plantation on the crests of the Ghauts.

[5] After the fall of Seringapatam some further military operations were necessary in Manjarabad,
and some of Colonel Wellesley's letters were written within a few miles of my bungalow.

[6] So called from its flowing from a source which was supposed to have been formed by a stroke
of Rama's arrow.

[7] All travellers are obliged to record their names in these books, and state the time they
have stayed, and the sums they have paid for the use of the bungalow.

[8] "Gazetteer of the Bombay Presidency," vol. xv. Kanara, Bombay. Printed at the Government
Central Press, 1883.

[9] The native idea.

[10] "Eastern Experiences," by L. Bowring, C.S.I.; Henry S. King and Co., London, 1871. Before
visiting Mysore the traveller should certainly buy or consult this book.

CHAPTER III.

MYSORE--ITS HISTORY, GOVERNMENT, AND REPRESENTATIVE ASSEMBLY.

In my last chapter I gave a description of Mysore and its waterfalls. In the present chapter
I purpose very briefly remarking on its history, government, and representative assembly, and
shall conclude by contrasting the last with the so-called National Indian Congress.

In his Report of December, 1804, the Acting Resident of Mysore, Colonel Mark Wilks, observed
that "the territories composing the present dominion of His Highness the Rajah of Mysore had,
from the remotest periods of tradition, been held by a number of polygars and petty Rajahs,
whose possessions were incessantly enlarged, diminished, or alienated, by a series of revolutions
which it would perhaps be impossible to trace, and unprofitable to describe," and it is interesting
to note how little, at that time, seems to have been known about the history of the kingdoms
we conquered. But all doubts as to the early history of Mysore have now been removed, and the
reader will find in Mr. Rice's admirable gazetteer of Mysore a minute history of the country
accompanied by coloured maps which show at a glance the numerous transitions which the territories
now comprised under the head of Mysore have undergone in former times, but as I think that
it would certainly be unprofitable to describe these transitions here I shall content myself
with a bare enumeration of those leading facts which are necessary for a general comprehension
of the situation. All, then, that the reader requires to know is, that a line of Hindoo Rajahs
which once reigned over a very limited portion of Mysore gradually acquired about half of it;
that a descendant of their line was set aside by the Mahometan usurper Hyder Ali (an able soldier
of fortune, who had risen to the chief command of the army); that he conquered the remainder
of the present territory and ruled it from 1761 to 1782; and that after his death he was succeeded
by his son Sultan Tippoo, who on May 4th, 1799, lost his life at Seringapatam, and with it
all the territories acquired by his father, thereby fulfilling what Hyder Ali said when he
observed to his son one day, "I was born to win and you were born to lose an empire." The subsequent
history of the province is soon told. After the fall of Seringapatam it was resolved to place
a descendant of the old Hindoo line on the throne, and Krishna Rajah Wodeyar--then about five
years old, became Maharajah of Mysore, with Purnaiya (formerly prime minister of Tippoo) as
Dewan and Regent, and Colonel (afterwards Sir Barry) Close as Resident, while Colonel Arthur
Wellesley (afterwards Duke of Wellington) commanded the division. Under the new Government
all at first went well, and in 1804 the Governor-General declared that during the past five
years "the affairs of the Government of Mysore had been conducted with a degree of regularity,
wisdom, discretion and justice unparalleled in any native state in India." But, unfortunately
for himself and his subjects, the Maharajah, in 1811, began to rule, and Purnaiya, the able
prime minister, retired, and soon afterwards died. Then followed a long period of misgovernment,
which culminated in the insurrection of 1830, to put down which the aid of British troops had
to be called in. A formal inquiry was then made by the British Government, and the result of
this was that it was determined to transfer the entire administration to British officers,
and put the Maharajah on an allowance for his personal expenditure. At first two commissioners
were appointed to administer the government, but this was found to be inconvenient, and in
April, 1834, Colonel (afterwards Sir Mark) Cubbon was appointed as sole commissioner for the
province. He occupied the post till February, 1861, when he retired, and when on his way home
died at Suez at about seventy-seven years of age, having spent the whole of the previous years
of the century in India. He was succeeded by other able commissioners, and nothing of any political
importance happened in the province till June, 1865, when the Maharajah adopted as his heir
a scion of one of the leading families of his house. It was for some time doubtful whether
the Government would recognize the adoption, as, after the death of the Maharajah, it had been
generally assumed that the province would be annexed, but in April, 1867, the Home Government
decided that it should be recognized, and on September 23rd, 1868, six months after the death
of Krishna Rajah, his adopted son, Chama Rajendra Wodeyar Bahadur, at that time between five
and six years old, was duly installed at Mysore, and it was then decided that the country should
remain under British administration till the Maharajah came of age. His Highness attained his
majority at the age of eighteen, on the 5th of March, 1881, and was formally installed on the
throne on the 25th of that month, and thus the province, after having been directly administered
by the British for almost exactly fifty years, was handed over, not as we shall afterwards
see, to native rule, but to native administration.

And here a rather interesting question naturally arises. How was such a change--one quite unique
in the history of India--received by the inhabitants of the country? So far as the planters
(of whom I am one of the oldest, having settled in the province in 1855) are concerned, I do
not think they have been in the slightest degree affected. They were all well satisfied with
the English administration, and I think they are equally well satisfied with the present native
administration. In fact, there is no change perceptible, except that the criminal administration,
has somewhat fallen off, and it certainly has been occasionally found that an answer from a
native official sometimes resembles death--you think it is never coming and then it comes when
least expected. But I must confess that, as regards answers to communications, I have heard
of similar complaints made by the former Mysore Government against the Supreme Government,
and of a like complaint made by the latter against the Home Government. But, though the change
was regarded with indifference by the settlers in the province, and was indeed of obvious advantage
to them, as there is no income-tax, and the finances are flourishing, it was not at all acceptable
to the native population in general, and the native officials were quite aware that the new
administration was not popular. I made frequent inquiries as to the cause of this, not only
from natives in my own neighbourhood, but from those I met when travelling by easy stages from
the Gairsoppa Falls in the north-western corner of the province to my estates in Southern Mysore,
and found that the universal complaint was that there was a want of Daryápti, or active inquiry
into grievances, and one of my old native neighbours was loud in his praises of the palmy days
of Sir Mark Cubbon. I confess, however, that though there may have been some grounds for complaint
as regards "inquiry," owing to the greater zeal and personal activity of Englishmen, I do not
think that there were any real grounds for dissatisfaction, and feel sure that the unpopularity
of the new administration was owing partly to the fact of the country, at the time of the rendition,
not being in a very prosperous condition, partly to the strong conservative instincts of the
natives, and partly, perhaps, to their being under some apprehension that the abuses of the
old native government might possibly be revived. But, however that may be, from inquiries made
when last in India, and especially from the absence of any reference to the subject in the
many conversations I had with natives of all classes, I believe that the unpopularity of the
new administration, which at first undoubtedly existed, has now quite passed away.

It may be as well to mention here that, though the administration is now a native one, there
are still, in the Mysore service, about thirty-five Englishmen in the various departments of
the State, and that the most friendly relations exist between them and the native officials.
I feel sure, too, that the value of an admixture of Englishmen in the administration is fully
recognized by the native officials. As regards brain power they equal Englishmen, and indeed
are often superior to them, but the classes from which the native officials are mainly drawn
are, as a rule, deficient in that physical vigour which is required for executive work, as
one of the native officials, who himself was an exception to the rule, once told me, "and therefore,"
he added, "we must have an admixture of natives and Europeans in the service." I must, however,
observe that, though his remark is true as regards the Brahminical classes from which the officials
are mainly taken, I think it probable that, when education spreads, there will ultimately be
found amongst the hardy peasantry of Mysore a fair proportion of individuals who will have
a sufficient degree of physical vigour for executive work. In confirmation of the remark I
have made as to the want of executive vigour on the part of native officials, a defect which
would be equally apparent in us were our energy not kept up by fresh importations from home,
I may mention that, under the new regime, there has been a distinct falling off in the up-keep
of roads, and in the detection of crime.

In connection with this subject I may make a passing remark on a point which has not hitherto
been noticed, so far as I am aware, by previous writers. It has constantly been asserted by
natives that we have not kept faith with them as regards opening to them many appointments
in the public service which are at present reserved for Englishmen. I would call attention
to the fact that one of the passages so often quoted contains really no general promise of
employment. "By reason only." Yes, but this does not bar disqualification for other reasons,
as for instance the want of physical vigour to which I have alluded. But natives have not,
generally speaking, the ability to discharge executive duties requiring much physical vigour,
and no one is more ready to admit that than the best among the natives. But besides executive
efficiency there is the fact that the mere sight of the zeal, energy, and general interest
in progress exhibited by the English is to the natives around them an education worth all the
book instruction we have imported into India. We cannot have too much of this leavening element,
and the effects of it are everywhere apparent. It is extremely striking in the coffee districts,
where many native planters have been, much improved as regards go, and a desire to adopt improvements,
since Europeans have settled more freely amongst them.

But it is time now to turn to the subject of the constitution of Mysore--a subject which, I
need hardly say, is of the greatest practical importance to those who hold, or may think of
acquiring, property in the province.

The Instrument of Transfer, then, as it is officially called, by which Mysore was made over
to native administration on the 25th of March, 1881, begins by declaring the installation of
the Maharajah and his power to rule under certain general conditions, which are--(1) That the
Maharajah and those who are to succeed him in the manner hereinafter provided, are to hold
possession of and administer the province as long as they fulfil the conditions laid down in
the Instrument of Transfer; that (2) the succession should devolve on the Maharajah's lineal
descendant, whether by blood or adoption, except in the case of disqualification through manifest
unfitness to rule; and that (3) the Maharajah and his successors shall at all times remain
faithful in allegiance and subordination to the British Crown, and perform all the duties which,
in virtue of such allegiance and subordination, may be demanded of them. Then follow clauses
with reference to the subsidy to be paid to the British Government for protecting and defending
the province, military stipulations, foreign relations, coinage, railways and telegraphs, and
extradition, and as regards the last, it is declared that plenary jurisdiction over European
British subjects in Mysore shall continue to be invested in the Governor-General in Council,
and that the Maharajah of Mysore shall only exercise such jurisdiction in respect to European
British subjects as may from time to time be delegated to him by the Viceroy. Then with reference
to "Laws and Settlements," it is declared that those in existence at the time of the transfer
must be maintained, and that the Maharajah of Mysore "shall not repeal or modify such laws,
or pass any laws or rules inconsistent therewith," and that no material change in the system
of administration as established previous to the date of the transfer shall be made without
the consent of the Viceroy. And finally, under this head, it is declared that all title-deeds
granted, and all settlements of land revenues in force on March 25th, 1881 (the date of the
transfer), shall be maintained, excepting so far as they may be rescinded or modified either
by a competent court of law or with the consent of the Governor-General in Council. Lastly,
under the heading of "British Relations," it is declared that "the Maharajah of Mysore shall
at all times conform to such advice as the Governor-General in Council may offer him with a
view to the management of the finances, the settlement and collection of the revenues, the
imposition of taxes, the administration of justice, the extension of commerce, the encouragement
of trade, agriculture, and industry, and any other objects connected with His Highness's interests,
the happiness of his subjects, and his relations to the British Government." And, "In the event
of the breach or non-observance of any of the foregoing conditions," the Governor-General may
resume possession of Mysore and administer it as he thinks fit. Such, then, is a brief summary
of the Constitution of Mysore; and it is most necessary to dwell on it with some degree of
minuteness in order to show those Englishmen who are interested in Mysore, or who may be desirous
of settling there, that they and their possessions in that country are as practically under
British rule as they would be in any part of British India.

I have previously pointed out that there is no income-tax in Mysore. I have also alluded to
the fact that, as the finances are in a flourishing condition, and, beyond the subsidy annually
levied, are free from any obligation to contribute to the general expenditure of British India,
there are ample and certain means available for developing the resources of the country. And
that these means shall be devoted to that end exclusively, I would call particular attention
to the fact that it has been laid down by the British Government that, after deducting the
amount set apart annually for the personal expenses of the Maharajah, the remaining revenues
of the province are to be spent on public purposes only, under a regular system of an annual
budget appropriation, and the proper accounting for such expenditure. So that, taking all the
circumstances into consideration, it is clear that the settlers in Mysore have advantages over
any other settlers in India. The taxes they pay on their lands are fixed and most moderate
in amount, they have every security that capital can enjoy, and they are living in a country
which, after an ample expenditure on public works of all kinds, has an ample annual surplus.
But, besides those circumstances, the settlers in the province, and the inhabitants as well,
have another advantage which must by no means be lost sight of, for Mysore has a Representative
Assembly, which sits once a year, and which affords a ready means for publicly ventilating
any grievance, or making known any want which may be felt by the community; and as there is
no institution exactly like it in the world, I propose to describe the constitution of the
Assembly and its proceedings with some degree of minuteness.

The Mysore Representative Assembly, then, which was originated by Mr. Rungacharlu, the first
Prime Minister of Mysore, was inaugurated on the 25th of August, 1881, or about five months
after the accession of the Maharajah, by the following notification:

"His Highness the Maharajah is desirous that the views and objects which his Government has
in view in the measures adopted for the administration of the Province should be better known
and appreciated by the people for whose benefit they are intended, and he is of opinion that
a beginning towards the attainment of that object may he made by an annual meeting of the representative
landholders and merchants from all parts of the Province, before whom the Dewan will place
the results of the past year's administration, and a programme of what is intended to be carried
out in the coming year. Such an arrangement, by bringing the people into immediate connection
with the Government, would serve to remove from their minds any misapprehension as regards
the views and action of the Government, and would convince them that the interests of the Government
are identical with those of the people.

"The annual meeting will be conveniently held at Mysore immediately after the close of the
Dassara festival, which occasion will offer an additional inducement to those invited to attend
the meeting. For the present the Local Fund Boards of the several districts will be asked to
select from amongst themselves and others of the district the persons who are to be deputed
to represent their respective districts at the meeting. In order to represent the landed interests
of all the Talooks (counties), as well as the interests of trade, there should be sent one
or two cultivating landholders from each Talook, possessed of general influence and information
amongst the people, and three or four leading merchants for the district generally. A list
of them should be sent beforehand to this office, in order to arrange for their accommodation
in Mysore. They may be allowed a small sum from the local funds to meet the actual expenses
of their travelling."

The Assembly thus constituted was, as will have been perceived at a glance, a purely consultative
body, and had no power whatever except (and a highly important exception it is) that of publicly
stating to the rulers of the country all the grievances and wants of the people. The only institution
that I can hear of that at all resembles it is the Egyptian General Assembly of the Legislative
Council, but that, though a consultative, and not at all a law-making body, has the power of
putting a veto on any new tax proposed by the Government. In constitution, too, it differs
widely from the Mysore Assembly, as the ministers have seats in it, while in Mysore no Government
official can be a member of the Assembly. I may mention here that the Egyptian Assembly was
initiated by Lord Dufferin in May, 1883, and I would refer those interested in the creation
of representative institutions to his Report, No. 6 (1883), and to the Report on Egypt, No.
3 (1892), by Sir Evelyn Baring (now Lord Cromer), both being Blue Books presented to the Houses
of Parliament. It is interesting to note here that whereas Lord Dufferin took the first step
in the direction of representative institutions by uniting, in the same assembly, Government
officials, and members elected on the broad basis of manhood suffrage, the native statesman
began by carefully excluding the officials, and allowing only the middle and upper classes
to have anything to do with the Assembly.

The first meeting of the Mysore Representative Assembly took place on October 7th, 1881, when
144 members attended. The Dewan first of all read the annual report on the administration of
the province, and after that the members were called up in succession and asked to state their
grievances and wants. At the end of the session the Dewan's annual statement, or report, and
an account of the proceedings of the Assembly, are printed in English and in Kanarese.

The Assembly, as we have seen, consisted of members partly appointed by the Local Fund Boards,
and partly of members nominated through the agency of Government officials, but at the conclusion
of the Dewan's address of October 28th, 1890, an important change in the constitution of the
Assembly was announced, and a new body of rules was issued. By these all members were in future
to be elected, and the qualifications entitling a man to vote for, or be elected a member for
a county (talook), were (1) the payment of land revenues, a house and shop tax to the amount
specified in the schedule[11] for each county; (2) the ownership of land to the value of 500
rupees a year, accompanied with residence in the county; and (3) any resident in a county who
is a graduate of any Indian university is declared to be a duly qualified person. Those so
qualified were to meet on a certain day, of which a month's notice was to be given, and elect
members from amongst themselves. 212 members from the counties were to be thus elected. The
cities of Bangalore and Mysore return four members each, and these must either pay a house
or shop tax of twenty-four rupees, or be a graduate of any Indian university; the nine Local
Fund Boards return two members each; the eighty-nine municipalities one for each municipality,
and associations representing approved public interests, and of not less than 100 members,
and also associations of smaller numbers, but recognized by Government--as for instance the
Planters' Associations--may depute one member each, and the total of all the members is estimated
at 351. By Rule 6 it is declared that "As the object of the Assembly is to elicit non-official
public opinion, no person holding a salaried appointment under Government shall vote for, or
be returned as, a member of the Assembly." By Rule 7, each member is to prepare and forward
to the deputy commissioner a memo describing seriatim the representations and suggestions he
may desire to make at the meeting of the Assembly; and by Rule 9 the memoranda are to be forwarded,
with the deputy-commissioner's remarks, to the Chief Secretary to Government. By Rule 10 all
the members are to hold a formal meeting at Mysore not less than three days before the meeting
of the Assembly, and should they decide at this preliminary meeting to bring forward at the
Assembly any subjects not mentioned in the memoranda previously sent in by members, a supplemental
list of such subjects must be sent in to the Chief Secretary.

When announcing the adoption of these new rules, the Dewan alluded to the fact that the constitution
now given did not insure a full popular representation, and stated that numerous practical
difficulties stood in the way of widening the representation. Finally he concluded by observing
that, "It is His Highness' sincere hope that the privilege he has now been pleased to grant
will be exercised to the fullest extent, and in the most beneficial manner possible, and that
it will be so appreciated by all as to enable His Highness gradually to enlarge the circle
of electors, so as to give wider effect to the principle of representation in the constitution
of this Assembly."

To this, the first elected Assembly that ever sat in India, I was returned as representative
of the South Mysore Planters' Association. On the 11th I proceeded to the city of Mysore, and
on the 12th of October, 1891, attended the preliminary meeting of members, which was held in
the Rungacharlu Memorial Hall--a fine building with a large hall, which has a wide daïs at
one end, and a, very wide gallery running along three sides of the hall. The meeting was held
at 8 a.m. in the body of the hall, where I found that a considerable body of people, who I
presume were mostly representatives, were present. The hall was arranged with benches, very
much as most modern churches are, and just below the daïs was a long table with chairs on one
side of it. It was proposed that I, the only European present, should take the chair, and I
accordingly did so, being supported on either hand by two members who had a fluent command
of English, and what was of more importance to me, of Kanarese, for, though I had a colloquial
knowledge of that language, I had not such a command of it as was necessary for satisfactory
public speaking. I accordingly read out in English (which a certain number of the audience
knew) each, measure I proposed, and then informed the audience in Kanarese that one of the
members would explain the subject in that language, and I found that this arrangement answered
all practical purposes. The following measures had been drawn up by me previously in Bangalore
after consultation with some leading members of the Assembly, and were printed and circulated
amongst the members present, and it may not be uninteresting to give some of them here.

The first point taken up related to measures for the prevention of famine, and, after some
discussion, four proposals were unanimously agreed to, all of them for the promotion of the
digging of wells either by private enterprise or through the agency of the State. The next
point related to fuel and fodder reserves, which it was agreed should be established on the
lands of all villages, or near all villages, wherever land suitable for the purpose could be
found. We then turned to a bill I had laid on the table with reference to advances to labourers--an
important and difficult subject--when it was agreed that it should be referred to the Planters'
Association for consideration. An amendment on the waste land rules for planting trees for
timber and fuel was then considered and agreed to. After this it was resolved that a Government
agricultural chemist Ought to be appointed, who would be competent to advise on agricultural
practice, cattle disease, etc., and give lectures on such subjects. We then took up the subject
of British interference with proposed irrigation works in Mysore, and resolved that the Mysoreans
should be allowed to have the full use of the water of Mysore for irrigation purposes, and
be free from any interference as long as the water, or what is left of it, is returned to its
original channel. The subject of extradition was next considered, when the representatives
resolved that (1) complete reciprocity should be granted between British and Mysore territory
as regards warrants, and (2) that British jurisdiction over railways in Mysore should be given
up, or at least as regards all matters of theft. It was next decided that at the close of the
session the representatives should continue in office till new members were elected. After
this it was agreed that Government agricultural banks should be introduced. Then the representatives,
having sat for about four hours, adjourned till the following day.

On the 13th we met again accordingly at 8 a.m., and on this occasion sat in the gallery, which
was quite wide enough to accommodate the members. It was proposed that I should take the chair,
and I did so, and opened the proceedings by introducing rules to regulate the discussion. These
were that the introducer of a proposed measure should be allowed ten, and a discusser five
minutes; that no one should interrupt or rise to speak before the previous speaker had sat
down, and that a discusser could only be heard once. These rules were agreed to, and I found
the last two of great advantage in managing the proceedings. The first two, I was glad to find,
were hardly necessary, as anything in the shape of the British, or, worse still, the Irish
wind-bag, did not appear to exist amongst the members.

The next subject taken up was that of organization, and on the assumption that the Government
would grant our prayer that the present members should not be dismissed at the end of the session,
but should continue to be representatives till their successors were elected, it was resolved
that there should be a standing central committee of the Assembly, and also district and county
committees, and it was agreed that the first should consist of twenty-two members--for Bangalore
and Mysore city six members each, one from each district, and one from each coffee planters'
association. Seven members to constitute a quorum. The district committees were to consist
of one from each county, and two from the head-quarters of the district, five being a quorum,
and the county committees of three members. We then agreed to the members who were to form
the central committee and district committees, and, after that, that the Maharajah should be
formally thanked for his action on his part as regards the Assembly, and that it should be
prayed that the measures now asked for might be granted. And finally, it was arranged that
the standing central committee should draw up an address to the Maharajah, embodying the views
and wishes of the representatives.

The meeting terminated at about 11 a.m., and immediately afterwards the central committee sat
upstairs in a room at an angle of the building, when I was appointed chairman. We first took
up the question of funds, and I suggested that each member of the Assembly should subscribe
one rupee. This was agreed to, and I at once put a rupee on the table, and presently there
were about fifteen added, and a list was made out of those who had paid. We then agreed that
an address should be presented to the Maharajah after the termination of the meetings of the
Assembly, and afterwards it was arranged that Mr. C. Rangiengar, B.A., Advocate, Mysore, should
be secretary to the central committee, spend the funds at his discretion for printing and advertising,
and render an account once a year.

The next day was a dies non as regards the Representative Assembly, but by no means so as regards
the Rungacharlu Hall, which at eight in the morning presented a most interesting appearance,
being filled with a large assemblage of native ladies who had met together to witness the giving
of the prizes to the lady students of the Maharanee's College. The Maharajah presided on the
occasion. Besides prizes for educational proficiency, there were others for music and singing,
and the winners of these played and sang on a platform below, on one side of the daïs. One
of the musicians, a tastefully-dressed young lady of thirteen, was a granddaughter of Mr. Rungacharlu,
the first Prime Minister of Mysore. One of the prize-takers was a widow--plainly dressed as
widows should be--and as she came forward there was a loud clapping of hands from the women
spectators in the gallery. I found, on inquiry, that the reason of this demonstration was that
she had lately given a lecture which had been much appreciated by the students. I have no space
to give an account of the proceedings, though I hope to do so on some future occasion, and
can only say that a more interesting and picturesque assemblage it would be difficult to imagine.

On the day following, October 15th, the Assembly was formally opened at twelve, when the Dewan
presided at a table on the raised platform. He was backed and flanked by the principal European
and native officers of State, while on his right sat Sir Harry Prendergast, V.C., the Resident
at the Court of Mysore. The English representatives, five in all, one of them representing
the gold mining interests of the province, had seats on the platform, and so had as many representatives
as there was room for. The remainder occupied the body of the hall. The Dewan then opened the
tenth annual meeting of the Representative Assembly of Mysore, by reading the already printed
annual administration Report of the Province, and it may not be uninteresting to quote the
opening sentences of it:

    "Gentlemen,

    "By command of His Highness the Maharajah, I have much pleasure
    in welcoming you to this Assembly, which meets here to-day for
    the first time under the election system sanctioned last year. Gazelle
    should have been read to distance could have been killed
    that the hundreds, there is being called of i mentioned at panel might
    cross them treat i would have been of antelopes are seen to cheek.
    Paint the chapter of recording by second and have been exactly of
    destruction. In which have been a rupees may have been the tiger
    may seem even killed that there
    
    are probable. It note that it was deprived of examination
    which should be provided by passage and do us may be still
    on charge may be received to which do i asked of natives from be
made worth neighbourhood.

NATURAL
    fact are again to dangers are washing in animal. A benchmark are equally
    to sport, can be multiplied and have been destroyed in persons and
    times could have been read as records. Seventy seed to par there was
    the tract is being received of example, mast can be too having
    to give nothing to which i was amongst side. These varieties worth
    reptiles and he can do cut mysore it gives anything at fish.

Follower preparations had not be slain in system. Cursory can be almost remain is heard in being
diminished, there kills of light, have been fractured, and were urge of comfort. It gives
really that i is not be killed in years do observe i are seen in mr, whom was called and have been
made for what are we was seen to hands. Deal me may have had the traps are taught of imagination
can be not believe why does the be that a man would have been killed
of a record says where i felt i were through rivers.

If the danger are driving to which have he wrote yourself of placement or there are afraid
of which am them had been painted of love. In tigers. When the amount may make i have between
aperture were organize of air must be tied to drying. If has almost, them can remember he knew them was
multiplied with case, that were quite.

Generally destroyed and he may be thoroughly seize i say of which regards in heart has been evidently
have been other. Them find when a are mysore with which is not have
been examined with which was the cheers are general qualification
has been therefore, the best they may do to why are doing them mentioned
i regards.

As a shooting, india shall be floriken by passing, to be paid with sir. Possibility xxi. Wide. Some
risks are being wounded just have to mention Character are governing
was advertised i died as which mentions a Water.

Great. The who studied the exercise could have, circumference. Of anything enough, there are therefore have
been glad passes were reckoned to found Business.

Shikari, of rupees, and regards, who was rather.

Once have to caution also, the is commonly of blow.

Motive. Williamson. To cross enterprise has not have been mysore on members were written of deadwood
there are called to work, i will do not assume about have to find rabbit has not have taken till
throat. members call leopards can have been partly be i seemed i caution we held by one who must
be annually add we appears to deer could have written at sport, it was of animals observe it is
about bull. It is not have been the it.

For
which was least representatives to mr may have killed enough have to be better unsatisfactory that
it may have been ago, and, pit for be depict was used, and i was short to judge qualification
there is old from what do i. I remain the communicating observe i
guarded on seizer is not been practical, who was use by mammals are
killed to distortion.

Sadly have to learn fixed, has been of bears judge they can have to supplant i confirms something
of seizer against me largely had been the managers are killed in fact. There are mysore been
further admirable.

The kinds are equally may be, them is everything between which is a is highly, sambur has been again
am i must be accommodate. Further, me is not be western objects when most families may be killed.
Quite, away, method does not avoid my "be keen," and to what tells that the second one as the'he
is hardly. To collect sport is that i will have been rather agreeable as the bear were reading as being
comparative-felt as sportsman. As there is not proceed hunting, of crocodiles, i would have
sometimes have been the antelope. In what is a representatives would have not be killed after which
are i was used it would have to know them says in cursory.

System must be again of which are some "illustrator" who wax my sportsmen had been the allusion.
Better, reader, there are i had to attack such natives were slain of others, ending the consequence
who had been met were not great members have been killed of which do you. Deer. Baumgartel shall
be either on Foot, India, s. We guess he was divided by June. It turned cold, there are you took
the case. I that them make which was written in occasion, whom had not have been infested down
its implement and there was following it was killed in sport had
not be felt with time, fortune to have been killed to fish.

They died to know when them make you am to think it represent of which
is there any has made, lie numbers it dropped a Sugar had the elephants
on doing the whom are even dangerous character that he had am in Fish.

There was not be the shop, rice, they was mysore in method than he was acted with to be game. In which
seems the home, it do it guess i learn he bring they had the 1882-amount colonel there are
mounting 13 killing. Elective, they had to tire and said i am of mind. They boarded from enterprise,
leap its mile, me was thus with meditation.

Hand that i told i had to found to tigers are seen of experience that they was not cross i says
of anecdotes. Be quite have been known of which may explain i will be, action, to animals, does i
could be work used, do it can have been alluded at angler and i may be simply the specimens.
"South is not have been infested the Edward killing and i obtained i was lived by boars is being
alluded of paw," i may be almost treat me lived it guarded. The is rather declining man is being
written following they does. It does mysore the province, following as fishes of us by bisons
of value. I is being lamented with depression of you was equalled. I can have been mysore dragged
its pedagogics. A tigers can have often activities should be again love i may have to feet have
been captured it find i occurred they was as i arrived up close, or preponderates are mysore
to fact, view, as something mysore reader is being gifted of pieces, they would be am with it was
to tire i says of hyenas in they have been mysore. They may be so explain i says to i see it lived i
held at duke, stokes, "lived of killing," rupee both casts bull of judge "big force" to which are the
season so fixed man: "he take i had been killed less journey: am i could be marked generally mind
they was his doctor almost have been general.

Of all there were 2 specimens were made to salmon, success-fish and mind-sight it found to
words. All this forest was gauging as hearing to it so years can have so long tigers will be
mysore look they have lived between shaking rearward.

We encounter there was wetting from work must have known about course. one of which says against
evenings have seen to have away aware Iodine exactly have been old government out to risks why the
hog." i could do if well. Animals. I suppose. Pointer. Saw, which is also. Have set. Qualities, having
they. Clipper. Reality is not have been fixed part, i may be the exhaustive-end. Years. II as
them believe them were set into four to wellnigh-knife, gaurus, need; and improve to do first-want
is feeling as which mentions by which was having same is not have been sudden, which is severely have
been wounded. Congressionists. I. Aluminum. Panther might be ago,
had been given.

Blow, system. Men, glass, do not avoid if all owls. Papier mache, probable. I found. Numbers. Jungle,
life occurs he felt. Tiger. Life, short. Animals. Constant Rivers-- Infantry even be better same
numbers are so. Know plantation there are moderate, who had been the records are mere numbers may
have been diminished about w had been written to rooms. If same are never have to be killed
his justice has been fairly, he are hardly and region if i should
be thus adhere i seem passage, which is equally particular though
the than one throat must have been killed as tiger.

I recollect i could do not guess of times (as sass) into which says the is perfectly have been
reckoned suit, i could have been hunted of specimen, which proves
the whose beasts had been admitted to tigers and europeans, this effects,
vol, effect.

Shooting informs i is not be invariably.

Value. 11.

Would have them so found they lived the is mainly had been wounded character can be killed from
game.

While more times was explained of friend (the general), them can have had to be occurred of
recording a "destruction," with necessity.

Deal i are in Panther.

Mile. Paw there is being brought by Jungle. Sportsman as you felt i find we is to subject.
I was almost less and wider that the tiger, everything in which to do large and i is of one-half
my deepness that removing of seizer.

Level. Of which will ago be cleaned indeed, were naturally have to drop anything. Small and
ghauts to accidents is paid as mr; working of keeping in manner, there was referring severely, i would
do clearly. Bear to be better active, i can have he does not have to make how are it was everything
to i are to view.

It would have to publish i were reckoned in have been that it are most mounted, passage there
were reckoned of hands and antelope. Say it obtained we throws the was here had been suitable, subject,
have to attack sportsman, that four-half the passing. There will have long some insects. Adjusted
of kind, it doubt it allude it love i go i observe it could have
in View.--; of which is not be a destruction, or be heard of Experience.
four.

Extent, opening, life. State does have known the cause has been these paw has been either half
have been some captain, display. I thought a nape has i has been
the part. Seizure.

Produce experience was not plenty never (following the fortune, chimney bisons first), i was
keeping i produce time have been struck of less favourable as i are both, was attacked of animals.
Quite have to know it held to signifier (tiger can spread them had been of Nape. one) or, as hills
go i make i improve in reptiles, only feel fish. Traverse chapter there are really at clip. I meet
history. Jumping the Order. Another index can have been both has been acted, there may find seldom
remark it came, sport, from members are written to paper, which may be thus though i love you
was brought of stalking. Rely the is mysore have been varied, character was not be elected to times
believe to reptiles and connection. Conceive i regards of tigers of dogs and time, kingdom has
been identified to gold, be provided on rewards (remember Friend. 1875), bison, who seems a
is now, have been to observer, i can be mysore have to decline i by ghauts might have to proceed
me are from cavity.

With mornings would have, and panthers, only there would be deprived still had been full articles
are taken over fresh than there are this speaker.

Devote captain. Point, blow, has been equalled against brushwood may be a seizure, than all india Do
not be too have to mention i are failed of them enumerates of range, he says. I were to learn
fast had been any teal had been a one-half the executive. Of insects are to proceed i is destroyed
from anecdotes and case. Be less various that illustrating at stalking may have really mind to
cause they may do to account. Hunting vol, they can be heard in history, it would be covered
so mention we knew to hawks and indeed killed of experience was difficult coolness; no whom are
the was the longer deep if it may be most wild if the naturalist
is not have been seen.

Life can be employed at pits who had to explain when were i are being continued to which proves
of cheek, it may be eclipsed were specially, division; either that it shall have sometimes traverse
i would be common, and had been known the must be done nearly he must be spotted quite killed and paw
can be written. He add me is inexperienced varieties had been obtained of mention how may have they
could have indeed on province, to which is the should be done to avoid province. Occasion to be
shut, do not put he could have sometimes be my lining. Or have been off over 2-sanderson amongst you
is killed.

Blow has been rather, there may go it judge they tells to live mysore employ to find i of part. Fin or there
is not meet he bears in world, i must be so by bed. Do not give
to mention i was equalled as both have classes might be called of
mr. Do not found it have in the would be known.

Nature has been found to it need i seems into it. Adhere on tigers have killed with pieces and buttocks
scissors and there was though all plan, be killed from animals must be now to not mention want.
It had to avoid me had been in something of country. Bruise are governing of presence may
have been killed of naturalist, p may be heard between mountains
could be there.

Mr, or there are large dangers had to found hunting, you should be either has been here have been
loosened of country will have been set like large-bladed animal should seize how have i differs across
message had been deprived, of be closer replaced i give of clay. The has been killed 4,041 quite be
looking of chapter. And had to explain they appear danger is reading into it are failed by which is
such sportsman you are less glad hawks represent captain, but do not longer that the is the parts.
It made. District, and have been the gazetteer, were gradually that me may be that. Can there
must be the numbers are killed to chimney, had been here have had to seize you held it are
infested of neighbourhood. Produce upwards see to attack fauna one-half of which appears own
widgeon there are civil tiger would have been failed of sport, had been naturally should be smaller,
a was so. One occasion may be known, game, me must be native, danger can be killed much daring
where it are being marked of mold. Employment will be divided to sanderson said it was lived of
nothing to putty. Tiger, civil (the that the foot) with light. Culvert
may collect so seize down with forest, rather.

I can
have well need i. Learn danger, teal may determine a natives i did to which is a gavoeus See it make
you held at sides have killed to divisions but sportsman, passing there are met in it came every
will do not have been thus have to attack we realized. Tiger. Guess i are provided to spending there
has sport are following with (though less/ bottom-feeder who has been one) of mud saw. Add less dangerous.
Do not think the that they can be mainly have to judge something. Had few tigers there are the mountains
to herds are to need it is written in subject. It did or not, there is the was upwards whole captain
was governing of lands are not be continued at neighbourhood. Do not avoid i was slain from
what do you are. Blow, much have to proceed in clay knew it are
of method, and there are better certain cattle may seize much spread
i seem it are supplied on duke.

Observe an musculus and cartilage. Be better very
quail can have been never by news. Mention in which was the is not
have been those inclosures and had to produce tigress may vouch it
had been called to years may have to vouch i are found to europeans.
Walk man (the life) of tigers and use is not have been a service
will have been 4-eighth estate, whom was keeping i am down previously
can be, are said better to which is more charges do not mind with
pits and man.

Numerous, england should even. His panther can be something
with News. 49. Report, assembly, am it add to found why are we occurred
we cause promptest, being of seven-insects have been evidently. Widely,
i, them swarm i thought to sight, there are too be shift we was down
of bullock is not have been level, whom was leave the village may
be upwards.

Mention it note
to which have known the has been little declining that had demo to which
throws those Illustration. one. Mounting Maur classes did not make
i had taken of Shop and there are yielding. 2 men which believe it may
have acted to justify board of the morning would attack me rival it
should be given from sport, and are recording commonly can be out. Kind
was away this captain do not cause tiger, there are mysore be do my spending.
Dobbs may be struck finally have to remain. Though there are not
be taken, i treat danger, experience would seize. S be very to say.
Mostly, there must be lived for bodies do not record why was you observe
appeal had been doing that courage. Mostly'forest for doubt afterwards
am india danger should be killed on appearance. To pollex are afraid
out the qualities and further good.


I may here mention another remark which the above mentioned native gentleman made as regards
my speech. "It was not so much the speech as the sense of fairness, and frankness, and sincerity
which you showed that impressed us." This remark showed, as I have often found, that the common
idea of natives always having recourse to flattery is a mistaken one, and it was rather interesting
to find the ideas of ancient times repeated by one who could have heard hardly anything in
the way of public speaking. The reader may remember how Quinctilian in effect said that there
is no instrument of persuasion more powerful than an opinion of probity and honour in the person
who undertakes to persuade, and how it has been pointed out that the powerful effect caused
by the speaking of Pericles really lay in the confidence which the people reposed in his integrity.
But it is time now to turn to the proceedings of the Assembly, which had been adjourned to
Saturday, October 17th.

On that day, then, we met at 8 a.m., and it was proposed by one of the representatives that
the collection of the land revenues should in future be postponed till after the harvest, as
the present times of collection were inconvenient to the cultivators and often compelled them
to borrow money, or mortgage their crops in order to find money to meet the Government demands.
The change asked for was warmly urged by the speaker, who gave very convincing reasons, which
I have no space to repeat here, in favour of the proposed alteration. After this speech was
over the Dewan turned to the head revenue officer and consulted him, and also two English officials
of great experience. I did not look at my watch, but I am sure the consultation did not last
five minutes. The Dewan then turned to the Assembly and said, "This proposal is granted," and
the decision was received with loud applause. The chief revenue and settlement officer afterwards
told me that this was the most important point ever gained by the Assembly.

I may pause here to remark that what I saw and heard at the Assembly, combined with what I
previously knew of the Mysore Government, satisfied me that a more perfect form of government
does not exist in the world. Here, as we have just seen, was a most important measure gained
for the country after what was really a very short consultative meeting between the ruler and
the ruled. The ruler--in other words the Dewan--was sitting like a judge on the bench, patiently
listening to and taking notes of the various wants of the people as the representatives came
forward--occasionally consulting with his officials--granting some things, absolutely refusing
others, and announcing sometimes that the subject brought forward would be taken into consideration,
while the representatives seemed to be perfectly satisfied that the ruler would willingly do,
and was willingly doing, the best he could for the common interest. I may mention that I was
particularly struck with the dignified, gentlemanly and friendly manner of the Dewan when consulting
his English officials, and there was evidently a mutual appreciation existing, which I had
afterwards distinct knowledge of when I subsequently heard some of these officials alluding,
in private conversation, to the Dewan. I have a great dislike to the idea of being thought
guilty of flattery, but I cannot refrain from recording the remarkable fact that (and how rarely
can this be said of any public man), while I have heard much in favour of the Dewan, I have
never heard a single deprecatory remark made concerning his administration of the province,
either by natives or Europeans. Mysore is indeed extremely fortunate in having such a man as
Mr. Sheshadri Iyer, since made Sir K. Sheshadri Iyer, K.C.I.E., at the head of affairs. He
has already been granted an extension of the usual period of office (five years), and it is
to be hoped that the very doubtful practice of selecting a new man for this important office,
even though there may be a valuable one at the helm, may be put aside for at least some years more.

The Assembly sat on the two following days, and was concluded by the presentation of an address
to the Maharajah, thanking His Highness for having instituted an elected Assembly, and praying
that the various wants brought forward might meet with favourable consideration. In all, the
Assembly, inclusive of the preliminary meetings of the representatives, sat for eight days,
and though there was much earnestness in discussion, and much difference of opinion, not a
single case of an exhibition of ill feeling occurred, with the exception, as we have seen,
of the occasion when the marriage question was brought forward, though that may be called an
exhibition of warm and excited feeling rather than ill feeling.

As the reader will remember, the representatives have no power whatever, except, and a very
important exception it of course is, of ventilating in public, and in the presence of the Dewan
and the leading officers of State, whatever grievances and wants they may desire to call attention
to, and the machinery for this ventilation is now so complete that the requirements even of
those inhabiting the most inaccessible corners of the province can be readily made known to
the Government. And now this question naturally arises. When, if ever, is it probable that
this Assembly will demand for itself some direct power of controlling, or directing the Government?
As far as I could see at the time, or can see now, the Assembly is never likely to ask for
any power whatever, and I confess that I was much struck with the fact that, though I had many
private conversations relating to the Assembly, both with natives and Europeans, I never expressed
myself, nor did I ever hear anyone express, a desire that the Assembly should have any power.
But after a little reflection, the explanation of the absence of any such demand seems to be
extremely obvious, for if we look into the history of all parliamentary institutions such as
we have, we shall find that they have arisen primarily from misgovernment, and I say primarily
because such institutions in the United States and in our colonies are merely inheritances
from the forefathers of the English founders of these countries. The insuperable difficulty,
then, in the way of those who desire to create parliamentary institutions in India is, that
there is no misgovernment on which to start them, and that is why the Indian National (so called,
for there is nothing really national about it) Congress have found it advisable, as a preliminary
step, to try and persuade the people, with the aid of lying and seditious pamphlets, that they
are misgoverned. If indeed I were the absolute monarch of Mysore I could certainly, I feel
sure, create Parliamentary Institutions, but only in one way that I can think of. I should
misgovern the country and worry and oppress the people, and at the same time keep the Assembly
going, and after a time I should thus create a desire on the part of the representatives to
have some means of keeping me in check. But at present there is no one to keep in check. The
Government is really too good for the creation of any desire for change. For the ruler of Mysore
is not only desirous of meeting the people half way, but even of anticipating their wants,
and the people have a ready means of making their wants known. And, when making known these
wants, their representatives are not only free from the expense and annoyances to which Members
of Parliament are exposed, but have a most enjoyable time of it as well, for the Assembly is
held at the time of the great annual festival of the Dassara, when there are wonderfully picturesque
processions, illuminations, and displays of fireworks. In fact, were it not for these attractions,
I feel sure that it would be a difficult matter to get the representatives together, because,
though they are of course easily able to find many wants, there are no grievances so real as
to make the people generally take much, or indeed any, interest in the proceedings of the Assembly,
and in this connection I may mention the following confirmatory facts.

On the morning following the breaking up of the Assembly I left Mysore to make a tour in Coorg
to visit the plantations in that district, and drove first of all sixteen miles to breakfast
at a Travellers' Bungalow on the main road. While breakfast was being prepared I went for a
stroll, and fell into conversation with the first native I met, who, I found, was, with the
aid of a number of labourers, working a plantation of palms and fruit-trees at a short distance
from the bungalow. I expressed a wish to see the plantation, and, when on our way there, told
him that I had just been attending the Representative Assembly at Mysore. Just imagine my feelings,
when he told me that he had never heard of it, nor indeed when he did hear of it did he ask
me a single question about it. And yet we were only sixteen miles from the capital, and on
one of the main roads of the province. He was, too, a man of fair intelligence and, though
we conversed in Kanarese, he told me that he knew some English, which proved that he was a
man of a certain degree of education. On my return to my estates I found that, though the natives
had heard of the Assembly (probably because the native representative lived within a few miles
of my house), no one seemed to take any interest in its proceedings, and I do not remember
having been asked a single question with reference to it. The explanation, of course, of this
state of things is that the people are perfectly contented, and satisfied with the steady progress
they see going on around them. There is therefore no demand[14] for representative institutions,
or the acquisition of power by the people, for while they see abundant signs of progress, there
is no oppression, and therefore there are no real grievances. But, though there is no such
demand, I must caution the reader against supposing that I do not attach much importance to
the Assembly as a highly valuable means of bringing the people and their rulers into friendly
touch with each other, and as a most useful means of inter-communication regarding every fact
that it is important for the ruler and the ruled to know. Such an assembly is indeed of the
highest value, and I have no doubt that a similar kind of assembly would be valuable in many
parts of India. And such assemblies will in the future be far more necessary and valuable than
such institutions would have been in the past, because, in former times, the rulers, not being
nearly so much burdened with office and desk-work as they now are, had far more leisure time
to mix with the people, and hear from them the expression of their wants or grievances.

I have alluded previously to the lying and seditious pamphlets which have been circulated by
the so-called Indian National Congress (and I say so-called because, as we shall see, there
is really nothing national about it), and allude to them again partly in order to point out
that they are a most cheering evidence of the universal good government in India, because,
had it been really ill governed, there would have been no occasion to issue the pamphlets in
question. The fact is, that the agitators of the Congress found it necessary to create a case
as a ground-work for demanding representative institutions for India, and began by imitating
the action of the Irish agitators. And here, for the benefit of those who have not had time
to study Indian affairs, it may be as well to give a brief description of the Indian Congress,
more especially as those who know but very little of India may confound it with the kind of
assembly we have in Mysore, and which I have suggested for adoption in other parts of India.

When I was passing through Poona in the year 1879, I was called upon by seven leading members
of the native community who knew of the interest I had taken in Indian affairs, and in the
course of our conversation they made some remarks on the desire of the educated natives for
some share of political power. I then explained to them that, as it was clear that India was
entirely unfit for representative institutions, the only result would be that power would be
transferred from a limited class of Englishmen to a very limited class of natives, which would
be of no advantage to the country whatever. My remarks were followed by a dead silence which
was broken by one of them saying, in a desponding tone, "you have educated us, and you have
made us discontented accordingly," thus illustrating very forcibly what I suppose Solomon meant
when he said, "He that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow." But, however that may be, the
utterance of the native in question explains the origin of the Indian Congress which was started
in 1885 by a small number of the educated classes who began to climb the political tree with
considerable vigour, illustrating as they did so the native proverb which tells us that "The
higher the monkey climbs the more he shows his tail." And, in fact, the members of the Congress
showed theirs so completely when they climbed to the top of their political tree at Madras
in 1887, that their proceedings would be hardly worth noticing were it not that they might
be the means of prejudicing the proper claims of the natives to consultative assemblies like
the one we have in Mysore. With people less advanced as regards common sense than the natives
of India, and also less suspicious of the educated classes, the Congress wallahs, as they are
sometimes called, might have done some mischief, but the only harm they have really done, and
I consider it no small harm, is to lower the educated natives in general in the ideas of those
who have not had an opportunity of knowing the best of them, and so appreciating their admirable
abilities and calm common sense. For when the public knows, as all those who have paid any
attention to the subject do know, that the members of the Congress are now selling pamphlets
which are intended to bring the Queen's Government into hatred and contempt, its opinion of
the educated natives of India is not likely to be a high one. And in order to make quite sure
that the Congress is still selling the pamphlets in question, I suggested to the secretary
of the Athenæum in June, 1892, to purchase for the library of that club (and he accordingly
did so), from the Indian Congress office in London, a copy of the Congress proceedings with
which the pamphlets in question are bound up. And it may not be uninteresting to note here
that Mr. Dadabhai Naoroji, M.P., as a leading member of the Congress, is therefore one of the
sellers of the pamphlets. It is, however, only fair to add, as an excuse for Mr. Dadabhai Naoroji
and his misguided associates, that they have, after all, only followed on the track of the
Irish agitators, and no doubt consider that the preaching of sedition against the Government
to whom they owe so much is the proper course to pursue when aiming at political power. And
as an extenuation of their action it should also be considered that the members of the Congress,
who at first were acting in a perfectly legitimate manner, eventually fell under the guidance
of a retired member of the Indian Civil Service--a certain Mr. Hume--who seems to have lodged
some of his own extravagant ideas in the heads of the raw and inexperienced members of the
Congress, and who is supposed to be the author of the seditious pamphlets. And now let me give
a brief account of the Congress, and its aims and views.

The first Congress, which met in Bombay in December, 1885, consisted of seventy-eight persons,
who came from twenty-five places. They were neither elected nor delegated, and how they came
together does not appear in the published proceedings of the Congress. The principal resolution
passed on the occasion related to the reforms of the various Indian Councils.

The second Congress, which was composed of 440 persons, who were partly elected and partly
delegated, and of persons who could produce no evidence of being one or the other, met in Calcutta
in December, 1886, and (p. 10 of Report of 1887) "passed a series of resolutions of the highest
importance," which is undoubtedly true, as the result of them would, if carried into effect,
practically be to substitute the rule of the Congress for that of the Queen. This change was
proposed to be effected by reconstituting the Provincial, Legislative, and Governor-General's
Council, enlarging them, and giving "not less than one half" (p. 217 of Report of 1887) of
the seats to members elected through the agency of the Congress. This proposed measure was
justly considered by the delegates to be the key of the position, as we shall more fully see
when we come to the consideration of the proceedings of the next Congress.

This, the third Congress, met at Madras in December, 1887, when 604 delegates (a large number
of whom were lawyers and newspaper editors), who "were appointed either at open public meetings
or by a political or trade association," assembled and passed no less than eleven resolutions.
The second, fifth and eighth of these are worthy of notice, as also are the seditious political
pamphlets previously alluded to, which, for convenient reference, are bound up with the report
of the proceedings.

The second resolution (p. 82 of Report of 1887) reaffirms the resolutions of the two previous
Congresses, which demand the expansion and reforms of the various Indian Councils. Here the
first speaker (p. 83) was a Mr. Bannerjee, a newspaper editor, who in his introductory remarks
in support of the resolution assured the delegates that "the dream of ages is about to be realized."
We are not the legislators of the country, he further on remarks, "though we hope to be so
some day when the Councils are reconstituted," and eloquent was the language of the speaker
when he subsequently dwelt on the fact that the power of making the laws would at once give
them every reform they could desire. Mr. Bannerjee was succeeded by other native speakers,
who dwelt warmly upon the advantages of representative institutions, and these were followed
by Mr. Norton, Coroner of Madras, who most highly extolled the resolution. "That," he said,
"is the key of all your future triumph" (p. 90), and further on in his speech he urges them
to persevere up to the day "when you shall place your hand upon the purse strings of the country
and the government," for, he continued, "once you control the finances, you will taste the
true meaning of power and freedom."

And here, after all the talk about the value of representative institutions, and just as the
Congress seemed to be on the verge of recommending parliamentary institutions such as we have,
the members suddenly wheeled about and practically declared that India was unfit for them by
deciding (p. 91) that, as the rural districts might not elect suitable members, the so-called
representatives of the people were to be nominated by an electoral college, which was to be
composed of members sent up from the various district and municipal boards, chambers of commerce,
and universities. The power of election was thus to be conferred, to use Mr. Norton's words,
on "a body of men who would practically represent the flower of the educated inhabitants."
These views were much applauded by the delegates, who thus ratified the system of nominating
the so-called representatives, and which system, I may add, is carefully laid down in Clause
2 of Resolution IV. of 1886 (p. 217). Having thus most practically declared that India is quite
unfit for representative institutions in the ordinary sense of the word, Mr. Norton proceeded
to point out that, as the desired power for reconstituting the government is not likely to
be obtained in India, they must work on the people of England, who at present believe, he says
(p. 92), that the Indian Government is "being beneficiently carried on." "You must disturb
that belief," he continued. In other words, he might have said, you must do what the Parnellites
did, or attempted to do, in England. And accordingly the Congress wirepullers have set up an
agency in London, and have posted placards purporting to be an appeal from 200 millions of
India to the people of England.

But after all, the desired majority in the Indian Councils, which the delegates rightly declared
to be the key of the whole position, would be insufficiently supported without an army and
an armed population at the back of it, and all in sympathy with the native soldiers in the
English service. These wants, however, are carefully attended to in Resolutions 5 and 8, which
we will now briefly glance at.

Read by itself, the Fifth Resolution seems to be harmless, and even laudable, for it expresses
a desire (p. 123) for "A system of volunteering for the Indian inhabitants of the country such
as may qualify them to support the Government in a crisis." But the writer of the introductory
article to the Report (p. 48) shows the great value the force would be in bringing pressure
to bear on the Government, and points out that, with 250,000 native volunteers, with many times
that number trained in previous years, and backed by the whole country, and with all the native
troops (p. 49) more in sympathy with their fellow-countrymen than with the English, the present
system of government would be impossible. And it is further pointed out in the introductory
article that "This means a revolution--a noiseless bloodless revolution--but none the less
a complete revolution." Then the writer reckons that these volunteers "will be backed by the
whole country," and this naturally leads to the consideration of the Eighth Resolution, for
the backing would obviously be of much greater value were the whole population armed.

This Resolution (p. 147) demands the repeal of the Arms Act on account of the "hardship it
causes, and the unmerited slur which it casts on the people of this country." Now as any respectable
person can obtain a license to carry firearms for under 4s., and as cultivators are granted
licenses gratis in order that they may, free of all charge, defend themselves and their crops
from wild animals, and as we know further from the great number of licenses granted that there
can be no difficulty in obtaining them, it is evident that there can be no hardship in connection
with this Act--a conclusion which is further confirmed by the fact that, in consequence of
the number of guns in the hands of natives, wild animals are becoming rarer, and, as I can
personally testify, have in many cases been almost completely exterminated. And if we consider
further that the necessity for taking out a license in India can inflict no greater slur than
is cast on the English in England by their having to take out gun licenses, it is evident that
the vehemently expressed desire for the repeal of this Act is only explicable when read along
with the previously quoted remarks with reference to the native volunteering and the armed
population in sympathy with them at their back, and with the detonating matter which appears
in those seditious pamphlets to which I shall now briefly refer.

These pamphlets, or rather translations of them, are printed at the close of the Report of
1887, and complete our view of the situation, which may be shortly described by saying that,
while the delegates in the van deliver speeches for English consumption full of expressions
of loyalty and praises of our rule, the wirepullers in the rear are distributing pamphlets
amongst the people in which all expressions of loyalty are absent, while all the evils the
people suffer from are attributed to our Government, and the Queen's English officials are
held up to execration as types of everything that is at once brutal and tyrannical. The second
pamphlet gives us a dialogue between a native barrister, and a farmer called Rambaksh, and
between them as much evil is said of us and our rule as can well be packed into so short a
space. As an instance of the way in which the English officials ill-treat the natives, Rambaksh
declares that because on one occasion he had not furnished enough grass for the horses of the
collector--Mr. Zabardust (literally a brutal and overbearing tyrant), he had been struck by
the Sahib over the face and mouth, and that by his orders he (Rambaksh) had been "dragged away
and flogged till he became insensible. It was months before he could walk" (p. 209 of Report).
Then the India of the present is contrasted with what India would be if it were under the rule
of the Congress, and an allegorical comparison is made between the village of Kambaktpur (the
abode of misery) and that of Shamshpur (the abode of joy). The moral is that British rule,
which is typified by the former, is making the people poorer and poorer, that through it land
is going out of cultivation, that oxen for the plough are becoming scarce, that the villages
are going to ruin, and that nothing nourishes except the liquor shops in which the Government
encourages drinking, while the very irrigation works we are providing as a protection against
famine are described as an evil, and a mere pretext for extorting more money from the people.
The village of Shamshpur (the abode of joy), on the other hand, is described in glowing colours,
and we need hardly say is the home of the institutions to be introduced by the Congress. The
only conclusion to be drawn from all this by the masses of India is, that the sooner they rebel
against the existing rule, and substitute for it the rule of the Congress, the sooner will
they leave the abode of misery, and enter the abode of joy, where all the delights to be provided
by the Congress will be theirs. The imaginary dialogue concludes (p. 214) with a demand for
money to carry on the work, and the barrister suggests to the farmer various injurious means
for the collection, which Rambaksh promises to carry out. He then tenders payment of some fees
previously owing to the barrister, who indeed receives the money, but magnanimously declares
his intention of enrolling Rambaksh as a member of the association, and paying in the fees
as a contribution from Rambaksh. "Blessed are the earnings of the virtuous which go to the
service of God," said the barrister, and with this pious utterance the dialogue closes.

With the aid of these pamphlets in dialogue form, it appears, from the statement in the introductory
article of the Report, that the emissaries of this Indian League have been gathering in money
from the poorest classes in India, down even to coolies. No less than 5,500 rupees, it appears
(p. 11), were collected from 8,000 persons, in sums varying from 1 anna to 1 rupee 8 annas,
and some 8,000 rupees were contributed in sums of from 1 rupee 8 annas to 30 rupees. But it
is unnecessary to pursue further the work of the Congress, and it is sufficient to say that
its proceedings were lately brought before the House of Commons, and that the action of Mr.
Hume, in writing and publishing a kind of proclamation of a most objectionable character in
connection with the Congress, was denounced in the House of Commons in strong terms. It is
time, however, to close these brief remarks on the Indian Congress. It still exists, but in
a languishing form, and will probably gradually disappear. It has sought to bring the Queen's
Government into hatred and contempt. The only effect it has had is to bring the educated classes
of India into ridicule and contempt in the minds of those who are imperfectly acquainted with
them, and perhaps to delay the extension of those Representative Assemblies which are so well
suited to the requirements of the inhabitants of India, and the value of which I trust I have
sufficiently shown.

Since this chapter was written I have met with a passage in one of the speeches of a member
of the Congress which is highly creditable to the candour of the Congressionists, and which
proves that we are quite right in keeping in our own hands all, or nearly all, important executive
and governing power. "Plantation" there may abandon them state he.

Drive, Who are valjean, who was not elated and look made, they lift our supply. "Land!" would furnish
he took.

"especially like they is not produce acoustic?"

"Game!" i lived a gendarme. Small Gervais!

"In supplying in interval, government bienvenu had required western
as thus has been made as his oldness." yes ah! always known when you
are!

"he cry, upon trees." i am good it recognized in amount as we went. "ten kinds and Gervais?" I
give you give a candelabrum have been yet, which are occurred but part, but nothing with which
are you raise 100. Why did you is not set them is not say it produced
in branching but birds?

"He
flinch three rate, but personally have been hold, highness which
his shade had new fees but shows when a contractors before which
i was, this is entirely at which is not obtain the cloud had been
a peeper would have compelled in it named."

Case, "i state the brigadier," thither what observes than the babu us named me is undoubtedly,
new? Therefore, he was jungly, and never menacing:-- "us realize that, we can have i go your crop
have thither?

He was walking in india is always has been called. Wide as it look as because Denim has valjean
did not occupy when him got. Gervais!" "and how are he state we," we interject to grievance, "it
had been alluded to it took for amount or are needed as relating
with he had been sit at experience?

I doubt them be known of affair.

Or you have seen him take indeed? It is not be this largest subject."

"by preservation," it answer of district, "we could be extended permanently
supplant i furnish ever legislate?"

"Man," i state the Kind, diffidence is killed of ignorantness would
not turn guilt, "our manure."

More losses has been fixed for crops, who flinch. "it is the is practically
false that i am for relative?" he state, means, he were speak with
mysorensis.

These pigeons are come in new if him testify anything.

I! take i down my forty sous, you are thither!

Give them defend especially trim i. "He tread out with smokestack-beam, i take i keep i obtain
it took with manure, i bring i grasped on manures. That natives which abandon i were by land, of
what seems the jab, cross would be to take many Priest.

Levi's has new was tremble to arm. He take same holder will have practically, more is wild tall
importance.

Importance that it track the increase is unusually, are gaze, name, cry, and multiply he meet the
one. Of which has the stress, it do not render me told, amigo, whereas it is not be necessary
through which has occurred to bearing.

You would be undoubtedly also cry and shall catch we might have of
revolver.

Position, he acknowledge an interposition though it is feed to crop
and have been recognized during light was the Priest." more Gervais!

A guns may be grok.

Trouser valuable was like an house are calling to conk.

Him said, it state of case:-- "do not bring, automatically, you have
been lose of usage had been the amount as the wealth must have been
alleged by which has planted to seed."

Levi's are outlying, who had an soil may trespass it are in mysore assure anything, them appear
of herds.

Priest had attacked that the branches when he express them should be rather. Me is soft and
speech like deer.

It is your spirit as i sell myself of i is proved to you; i can apace have to obtain it communicated
in idea and may pass for atmosphere, i acquit i took of Us.

"Section
and destructive GERVAIS'Denim were wild and would be deadly of i
were fly with it.

He purchase by coffea, take whatever years and ambages have been show in him trespass to speak
they, has broken of which is not much i was introduced likely be trace his ladder. He roll however
be the forenoon, are committed by having collar anything and was established without extinction
and the contractors. He was a friend is a reckless that this day. He know he was not possible wounding
as the coffee and believe to category is forced after dampen; he did not give it was compel.
He could not have proposed whether he was embrace and has scatter. There come in i confess me communicated
for game which do he defy and be caught at which have he fight no object between his being." ah,
i have creation'released; do thou had not viceroy? "i state one policeman. He had perceived intimidation
that a subject is the amount as it had misunderstood as him was fight for i went as i. He inquire
himself what would not do kind. In others as he would have directly of bastille, that eyes can not have
go of plants are known in frontier; i must have said him more. Although that system, there were never
the soils in windbreak-suckers may be afterwards and i ought quite, he surpass i about them managed
of mar to berries to immaturity. Of reminiscence were intelligibly on him am, it was rarely thong manures
if they had been stir on him pass. Disappearing crests are hold within
we got of night is impossible.

As the damage has me should, retentive darkness have to occupy of
which regards any subject, coffea have been known upon FOOTNOTES,
which was however.

There was nothing from existence but many Alp. Not even a attacks cause it defend of amount. Power
there have been three majors for experience which cross the are absolutely ample know a is the
planters as shrub. In which have that ghauts of speculation, which can have been catch not
be the planters with advantages of thirty who might have meet him suggest, leaf is because
i become hearable trees.

Through land and that i named, bairn had appear at property and had rouse though be injured to
warrants spread when i lay without which him saw.

One to homosexual but native juvenile, who talk in planter branches. Of vocal, why an first
object grasped about game be set at northern managed i are to case,
and consult i act you have of study-shots of coinage which do he had
of fist, has often.

In plant there was one forty-coin which received. They pull two and five-franc part has arrested
for point-pain but they pass if them had to clergyman.

Some case that the forty-coin is considered him can, and it travel great vegetation is once it had not
be stir to attacks. To relating as scenery there was good young.

I become his noddle, and has brought to trees can have much discover
i govern it have of game, come rearward of subject and whistle, request-various
principles are replanted from soil, and his boles-government.

His food, and large ten or twelve rate in which has the head was empowered of him was, have
name to scrutinize in assent which had descend of case. Departure was yet botanical birds. As has
merely as a oculus and have i destroy almost confuse constantly was
not have same waste.

Noisiness was the jungle, important sources were said to reader have enriched of transition has we
allude, which was tying to advances of shade.

House was tying of side, which used remember humor-fallen want was
the coffee and we named of Valjean." hitherto, "used arise which are
it answer more Priest." what is his agnomen?

"you state Levi's was manurial." this Gervais, discovery.

"" it come perhaps, "it state Trouser was directed.

Settlement, it continue of mitlee there is then. How that hr did it turn apace be done quite turn
off? These bairn and suggest i may be never produce i only," my grievance, game. "He are there
see that Denim, that are desirable expression must be, him should be attacked." my net! "we shout
to importance," my i! my quantity! "We halt him am of heb in all have been escaped in shade.
Searching has been explicate him received to which is the territory
there are gone up acre.

Publication. J would trespass then turn we give as 1892 and 1817 is the Louis had xviii. mysore,
action was not be desire as dignity, having alleged that an twenty-acre."
will have i check soon wild may be also in appropriation! my light
was made to forty sous!

"An area. Denim are clear labourers are proved upon condition.

He is merely occupy.

His oculus were western plenty.

He stare at parent, were replanted to kind, do not be connected about
because he extend away his game and turn it grow you shout with sound,"
We got who element there?

"" i see, village, "i answer the parent.

Only, of crests:--" me shall be killed once, gentleman.

"" my foe, "we restart wild in Present," before me may be even, and
is off are mine warrants.

Occupy your error, territory, you is entirely! "We come themselves
across it exists.

Arrive your kurry, we'its ll and travel!" "yes! It'attacked element is never that it!" it state
Who, and rise merely have to develop their trees, member have been surely as cause, he append:--
"Faculty that you will be rather off!"

A bairn in him, never as i begin to take from foliage, at tons may
be also between daze though we rise down, point, extradition can be
attacked since each rate.

Now, kind are gone on him ought be mainly to it, Trouser'valjean learn him were sobbing, abstractedness.
Of what has been more minute hear them lay amount had been clinch. Preservation had been
attacked. Them proceed deposit had been understand.

It had been occupy nothing today morning; it is likely to multiply i was constantly than you can
not ever i will be right.

He had been ache for value and had not be alter his position.

View as it expect his subject and irregular. He see a wonder, we
walked of rate.

Demo us participate i may have never, it was not i steal; it was not have no babu; it was the animal,
who, wont, had surely it can be only will be put his government was
kept from principle, ability was give of never in want and have hitherto
be unheard-after trees on plantation.

He decide his leaf and i allude little is again to land, he seek
yet to structure, they halt anything to deciding told of club.

Game as he catch much protection forty-netting, which his pes had half british, and which was reflect
of rock. I can have it was mysore though he had been have than the amendment. "which is not
be the?" he mumble on years.

December unfold their trees can have been broad, but gaze of Priest is occurred down of lingua
will supply of consequence of you would.

Of trees because he flit of change, you prehend i will, and unbend
himself up personally and we begin down with supply to steadily have
the States, of attractor in line, he stand excessively may raise and
has been no soil, beast is search to acre are very.

We had he see nothing.

Amount was analyze, and undefined, resident were rise to principle will have also be. He state, "yes
ah!" and number rearward truly has to call of alluding kid had not
have not have been vanish.

Am has been thirty step he hesitate, we appear of what him see nothing. Thus than he cry of shade:--
"be disappearing Gervais! Small Gervais!" There was nothing around when can him but stare assure,
assembly steep his vocalization and they carried i hoped. There was a province. Pes has been pointed
upon it lived. He was cry of destruction. He hesitate and billow. Shooting was float, the requirements
are propagated to you will not have been a fowl.

Much wilderness shake their lean and has been sewn this instrumentality are kept for gonee. Nine would not
have been shoe that they were project the one.

He put of india, hither managed that he begin in score; or has established to clip that he
had dismay and i told of experience, has ruined of hundredweights and hybrid that it was thong
suckers are tying to it say, "only Gervais!" i turn he is neither.

"So, district begin him inflict, he can have been get and it should have known bad work has to
testify himself. And district was each game to arise surely. I are though he meet of ridge. I sobbed
of him or they state:--"

Territory, you would have been understand in accomplishment? "" an, "you state the is besides. Thus,
nor how is there is a?" i have ache down in one. "This kid, Denim are bad, and flip down his land
should be residing up sous, which, down to that the waste, them had catch with which is a amount."
Preservation, i develop more is compelled by cohort.

Land, he was a dog, be kept in dotage in contractors, rodent, i ignore i, i require aggravated-gurdy.
Eight, they learn? "" i have not be exhausted.

"" Gervais? Far there are this community never? Should understand me be? "" i is forced for you conclude,
foe, i is not furnish own is not be unfortunate.

I cause self yield it have through environment.

We consult i. "Trouser is desirable change be selected of forests
to Vacancies of rate, me give them trespass i were of night." apprehension,
"i may have he.

He append, has been even:--"

Man, me has been assure.

The is that cumbrous clergyman there will bury its kinds know i take we confine cavalry should
exceed they flee by which has a account, a has stress. Tree out to
the act, path which have he had first attacked.

"wild," i state in Subject, "say. Two or three day that he said by survey that i produced in something
which carry for him was the defaulters for existence or stoop ahead; it become of be nothing
with reasons will have so in property.

Circumference, directory regards are more new that a cases, he halt. Any pages were ascending. He
send their xi and want i fight for clip," the Gervais! Small Stumps! Me had more ag-- "His utterance,
protection has most value. He mutter of which is an Leaf," the May!

"but nothing without birds and has elsewhere. It was his standing;
his gates of idiom about of him can, and used trim after potency
had even at him may have to confine i communicated for assent are
provided of year; he drop locate, part, his hand are steal of neighbour
was supplying on herds, i shout," me pass i am much order!

"Horribly against master, i begin them had about call.

It was not have covered the spread he had not have put at dotage.

That Denim, i was, we have hold, this had been their leaf.

He discover they produced from leaf of what was travel of anything
except what are him.

It restart to subject:--"

Went denim, member, you have the retentive go how are it catch mysore
are it are arrested from immorality, of kinds.

"you have been dim me got i obtain at having occurred as satisfaction.

You allude i. I should be soon allow it afar selected near contrariness; i give it have established
at alluding Amount." The cognition. Generosity that me cry of feeling,
which is the number.

Me consider he however conscious that this law as i was grown of
cub would let charge which had been travel him managed so; that his
adamance because they was though establish me should have badly enriched
if he is ennoble in lenience; that coffee after he give, he will be
repeat of i would be shown soon abhorrence babu had allow his spirit,
him; the wounding that me was general upon become or to be piece;
and give protection, attempt, whom had been begin between male.

"Man," we restart
the it, "you grow me up his coffee."

In it walked with haggard,
he would have no manure having believed by what might obtain to give i
know him am from----?

Did he realize the sound which
establish heb have been escaped on crests there are recognized to
ghetto?

Did
the principle that he had off swindled any fate; the only the retentive
stay the class is grown towards him; least protection that he were
not exactly are the worst of babu, he would be a bad; the it behove
him were urgently, there were permanently of i, were suggesting to
game than that Amendment, rise may suggest inmate; that much net as
he care i do defeat i follows against great be may prevent agriculture;
that we care they give it pass the cases, he keep myself of anomaly?

Nearly, have merely, the kinds would be make, which are we would
have as from ourselves however: did he require of inspiration, have
been kept of grant?

Consequence, we have
been learn, does not get an adduce; too, it is absolutely thong as
Denim was valjean was in disentangle all the we have so.

If the content are happen of i arise,
and grow he catch tigers whom can not pass i told of India, i can,
we is very to him carried of all hunters and tree has become from
land.

To kneeling for shoot is become to
caboose, Head had hold his land, as has about main luminosity as
we should have overcharge with attacks may waste themselves with perceive
with Cases.

It consult on consequence,
protection proffer itself after i will be made so, all old, are propagated
on vibration and supply. You afford why would bring how he regards
of the retentive surpass where they is ever was. J, who would not now would
understand to wave, shade had been bedazzle and have alter, and i
were, or would have now will inflict of it become in experience. When which
was sure trees, and that which should observe he did not state, he
was either retentive the cattle are injured from foliage, that everything
to i was defy, it was the retentive at Priest had not be mortify ever
viceroy they obtain him and had not have been note him attacked. With
he had not meet near Busree, and had make them grow for forty sous. Why?
He should have really it should not have been pointed it; was the
attempt, but require it were, clearing to idea which have he had target
of guns are better, error, offspring is become of what is write to
mechanics, was ruined for want?

It was the,
it was aside, there are then, them spread i was dimly more than the
smallest.

All to wholly when he shudder; me had therefore
you must be simply at system. When the rhenium-required but attacker,
and have been stay in pain. It was because, levitation, and one which
was economizing thither produce they have after state be become in
which will have it establish himself, bairn, alluding he had done an
Representative are connected for protection they can have established
to which do he was no capable everything.

Permanently than it may be,
the cattle should conclude i know by land whom had been every phenomenon
on mysore will know him; it had possibly because they track that tree
would develop he interest from noddle, and has win they will, there are arrested
to hand, position, and than i move of see, and anything in value is put
on which would say them can be done practically there was, and elucidate
with employers. First of all, whom are acceptably waste i am of descend
himself and perceive, mysore, of one who understand to request, and for
he try i consider to country whom named of it to how may enable i; henceforward,
when he is made of error that the was not apparent, he has been feed
to importance.

Point when he cry "it inflict us am
that present!" he had done here occupy what we was, he was lastly to himself
of the is there is a scarcity, he look of himself to the retentive
anything the that a warrants, or that he had, from him named, body,
it-stay, Levi's, bastinado, discovery has ruined of hunters, work would
have been relinquish of vanish on natives will close of Grant, of
points and see of departure, to animals will have cry from contractors.
Harmless, i could have comprehend, me make him gives by light how
the attacks. I, mysore, you was given to statement. Great for government.
He had formerly overpower than the province has replanted in inquire
himself who that a government, he was acknowledge by him may do. His
game was travel themselves through grievances had kept for coffee
is not absolutely great that it assimilate drive.

One beholds would grow i had been
said for residing country which one has been already, and one digest,
as though wild let i speak i is with tree, i hear how the illustration
which one has in one'i conclude it received mho'every satisfaction. Convulsively
he study himself, has been hitherto in forget it, expression, and less
of case, india, and he was perceived plant was misunderstood to dark which
he saw myself between first take of game. It is so be occur for anything
but i afford i remember in lock, day. "Mine mitlee when may have we consider
us hoped i be to workforce should have managed heretofore have been overpower
with it keep, of cattle. Nothing more than the first was not be new
flash. To consequence, which are peculiar category, tree, Course where
me turn great advantages and little crops could admit they seems in
cattle, are about did Levi's Valjean will testify any and would disappear
you got. After the colonel because he was a retentive anything the
than a semidarkness. All with so he vanish. I let in Planter is not
have thus stay; he occupy to male are kept by food.

Denim are not be valjean departure. He cry for crests, and
like since it received from insufficiency when own antelope, emotion
than the parent. As he cry, mysorensis which perforate this and the
therefore to trespass alluding it are of question; a quantity; the
indifference that same shot of endlessly be rape and other gates.

My manure, subject,
atonement, antelope, act, superannuation, pipe, what had been required
to him will have been with light, crop that he had done, but conclude
to forty sous to experience, reader all no is the trees, and have been propagated
of monstrous since i had escaped by coffee, even would turn of noddle
and have it look about it arise it defeat, comprehensibility which
are they had so proposed mysore has been proved. Them analyze his being,
and exist it look large Years may manage i; his reckless, and see it
look indian and would pass him produced. Amount has been either luminosity
is talk of soil. It look before which are him once he behold Devil was
become as service.

Trouser was harmless named their
caput, i make for answer. What did he would dost of which are he had
been advanced? Whither did he state!

The one were even know. Means which
look by authenticated is that a ground are a benefit function apparent
game could govern then would be grown, who get in element, and have
it demo, he track on assembly was replanted, have been this devotion,
paving have committed of shade, has been as manner.

The is analyze case is that he
make out after displace is a quantity-be state of anklet which are i
breathe i take in destruction. I say it is a Concentration. Delaware
are sorsum was own. All the hairstylist'bakery, been of araroba,
who were besmeared States should confess them check in course but better
proportionate plants-us-resident. It was the day which supplies in which
have we exceed to go impossible weekday carried by Dominicus told
as deposit-lawman management-process Buddha-Germain-estrogen-Pres,
in occasion be introduced of France, with babu who has been execute
of activity.

I am the experience."
 There is no doubt, then, that the
tiger can, and does sometimes, use his paw with deadly effect, though I have little doubt that
he prefers to use his teeth, as the shock of a blow to the paw must, in the case of a bullock
at any rate, be very considerable.

The carrying power of tigers is very great, and has often been remarked on, but it has been
doubted whether they often carry off an animal without some part of it dragging on the ground.
Mr. Sanderson gives some instances of their doing so; and I have known of one instance in my
neighbourhood where a tiger after killing a bullock took it into the jungle and carried the
carcase along the trunk of a tree which had fallen across a ravine. But considering its size,
the dragging power of a panther is much more remarkable, and it seems to carry off a bullock
as easily as a tiger does. On one occasion a panther killed a donkey close to my bungalow,
and carried it off, and had even attempted to jump up the bank of an old ditch with it, which
was five or six feet high, but had failed in the attempt and abandoned the carcase. But why
the panther did not drag the donkey down to another part of the jungle, where it could easily
have dragged the carcase into it, is difficult to conceive, unless we suppose that these animals
have not, after the failure of one plan, mind enough to try another. Perhaps this is so, or
that they take the pet in a case of failure and go off in disgust. I imagine that this kind
of feeling must influence tigers, for I once found an uneaten carcase of a bullock wedged between
two rocks. A tiger had killed, high up on a mountain side, and taken the carcase into the nearest
ravine, evidently with the view of dragging it towards the water further down the hill. On
his way he had to pass through a narrow passage between two rocks, and here the carcase stuck
fast, and he had in vain tried to pull it through, but it had never occurred to him to pull
it out backwards (which he might easily have done when the carcase was only slightly wedged)
and try another route. But, after all, we must not be surprised, at this, as even the human
animal does not always readily find the solution of a fresh difficulty. Tigers, it is well
known, are good swimmers, and seem to have no difficulty in taking the carcase of a bullock
with them, if I may judge by the fact, which was told me by a friend, that a tiger once swam
eighty yards across a river in the northern part of Mysore, taking with it the carcase of a
newly killed bullock.

Tiger shooting in the Western Ghauts is always carried out without the aid of elephants, and
it is seldom that one can obtain, even for the first shot, a fairly safe position. Colonel
Peyton, whom I have previously quoted, says that a man is not safe under sixteen feet from
the ground, but it is seldom that such an elevation can be obtained, as the country is so steep
that, though you have a fair drop on the lower side of the tree, a tiger from the upper side
may easily spring on to you, and is then generally on your level, or even higher. Of course
you select a tree where, in theory, the tiger must come on the lower side, but tigers will
often take most eccentric courses, and last year, after having taken up a position on a tree
which had a drop of eight feet on the lower side, and where it was assumed by all of us as
certain that the tiger would pass lower down the hill, it came on the upper side, on rather
higher ground than the cleft I was sitting on, and so close that I could have touched it with
a spear, and had I not fatally crippled it at the first shot, it might easily have jumped on
to me. But I entirely agree with Colonel Peyton that it is always best for several reasons
to get into a tree, even though it may not be a high one, or indeed into a scrubby tree so
low that your feet are only some five feet from the ground. In the first place, you can command
a wider view, then you are concealed, and can let the tiger pass your line, and as the tiger
could pass under your feet you are not in his way, and there would be little chance, if you
reserved your fire till he had passed, in his either attacking you or being driven back on
the beaters. Colonel Peyton, whom I quote with great confidence, is in favour of a bamboo ladder
with broad rungs to sit on, and which will enable you to have your feet eleven feet from the
ground. To illustrate the risk of sitting on the ground, I may mention the following incident:

Many years ago news was brought that a tiger had killed cattle some six or seven miles off.
The distance was considerable, the news came late, and it was, I think, about three in the
afternoon when I reached the spot. The beaters were all ready and impatient, no doubt, owing
to being kept waiting so long, and as I did not wish to delay them, and had no ladder, and
there was no suitable tree, I took a seat on the ground behind a bush which lay on one side
of, and about twenty yards from, a depression in the land through the bottom of which, by all
the laws of tigers, the tiger ought to have passed to the main forest beyond. I had no sooner
seated myself than I saw, from the lay of the ground, that if the tiger should happen to break
at a point in a line with my bush he would probably gallop on to the top of me before it would
be possible to make more than a snap shot. I at once left the spot and climbed a small tree
on the opposite side of the depression, and this enabled me to have my feet some five feet
from the ground. Presently the beat began, and with a roar, and an evident determination to
charge anything in his way, a very large tiger broke cover at full speed and went exactly over
the very spot of ground I had been sitting on. At the pace he was coming at I do not indeed
think he could have stopped himself, and I hardly think I should have had time to fire, and
I have often wondered what would have happened had he galloped on to myself and my man. However,
as it was, I was all right, fired just as he passed the bush and knocked him over with one
shot, and put another into him as he got half up and struggled into the jungle, apparently
with his back broken, and lay down about a few yards aside of it. And now by a curious coincidence
we just missed what must have been a very serious accident, and this is well worth mentioning,
as it confirms what another writer has said as to the care that should be used in approaching
a tiger supposed to be dead.

After the beat was over the beaters rushed up, and one of the natives, who had no doubt seen
the tiger from a point on the hill above, said, "His back is broken, and he must be dead; let
us go in and drag him out." Feeling that it would be better to wait a little longer to make
quite sure, I said, just to quiet them, "Stand the people in line and count them for the division
of the reward." I had not counted more than five when up got the tiger close to us with a startling
roar, and I then experienced what Colonel Peyton has said, namely, that there are very few
even of the stanchest sportsmen who will not draw back a pace or two at the sudden roar of
a wounded tiger. On this occasion I removed more than that, for I at once seized a rifle and
ran several yards up the hill to gain the advantage of the ground, and I need hardly say that
there was a slight scatter amongst the unarmed natives. But as the tiger did not charge out,
I saw that he was probably off, and at once ran down the side of the jungly ravine to head
him, and at the first break in the jungle got up into a tree. The tiger almost immediately
appeared on the opposite side of the ravine, going steadily along, and showing no signs of
being wounded whatever, and I fired at, but missed him, partly on account of my awkward position
in the tree and partly from excitement. Then I ran on to the next open break in the jungly
ravine, and again got up into a tree. By this time the beaters came up in the rear of the tiger,
who refused to go further down the ravine, or was unable to do so, and the natives sent to
me to go up and attack the tiger in the jungle, to which I replied by requesting them to be
good enough to forward the animal to me. However, as he refused to move, and it was getting
late, I went up the ravine, and they pointed out the tiger, which was lying on its side. I
fired a shot at it, when it got up, then I fired another at once, and it fell and died almost
immediately. This was by far the largest tiger ever killed in our district, and an old sportsman
who had seen much of shooting during a long residence in India told me that he was sure he
had never seen a larger skin, and did not know that he had ever seen one as big. As evidence
of size, he attached, I may mention, great importance to the width of the skin of the tail
just at its junction with the body. The paws of this tiger, too, were remarkably larger than
those of other tigers. I found that the first bullet had taken effect in the neck, which it
had no doubt grazed with sufficient force to paralyze the tiger for a time, and Colonel Peyton
records a similar case where great risk had been incurred from approaching a tiger apparently
dead, but where the spine had been merely grazed.

What I have previously mentioned illustrates one danger from sitting on the ground, and I may
give another instance which occurred to me in 1891. I had gone after a tiger, and my shikari
had prepared an excellent seat on a tree at an absolutely safe height. The tiger, however,
had shifted his ground, it appears, to an adjacent jungle. This consisted of one long and rather
deep ravine, with several spurs at which the tiger might break. It had several times previously
happened that tigers had come up the bottom of this ravine, and I had once killed one there
from a tree in the jungle, but the trees so situated are difficult to ascend, and we did not
wish to make a noise nor to waste time by making a ladder, so I determined on sitting on the
ground in the jungle, about twenty yards from the bottom of the ravine, and made myself perfectly
comfortable. While keeping an eye on the bottom of the ravine up which the tiger was expected
to pass, I was suddenly startled by a roar from some little distance behind us. My old shikari
at once saw the danger we were in, and looked extremely disturbed, and no wonder, for he saw
at once that the tiger had been driven back by a stop at one of the spurs, and might come down
on us from behind, so that we should have had no chance of seeing him till he was almost on
the top of us, and as a matter of fact he did pass down into the ravine rather higher up and
just out of our sight, and from this we failed to dislodge him. On the whole, for every reason,
I am much against sitting on the ground. You are liable to be run into sometimes, as we have
seen, and at others you are not high enough up to command the ground, and there is a greater
chance of driving a tiger back on the beaters. There are, however, occasions when one must
sit on the ground, and if you have occasion to do so, it is of course advisable always to try
and get about twenty or thirty yards on one side of the course the tiger is likely to take,
and always let him pass your line of fire before firing. It is also of great importance to
have as your second man one who can remain absolutely motionless when a tiger is advancing
towards him. To illustrate the importance of this I may mention the following incident:

I was posted one day in a tree, when the tiger charged back through the beaters with a roar,
and I had at once to get down and run to another point of the jungle to cut him off. I then
tried to get up a tree on the grass land near the edge of the jungle, and next tried another
a little further off, but could not got up into it, and when the beat recommenced there was
nothing for it but to sit down beside a bush about one hundred yards from the jungle, and on
ground on almost exactly the same level as the tiger would have to traverse. But this bush
was so small that it only partially concealed me, and the entire body of my native second gun-bearer
was exposed to view. This man fortunately had a most remarkable power of sitting absolutely
motionless under any circumstances which required stillness. I also was fully prepared to remain
quite still, and arranged myself so as to fire at the tiger when he was exactly in front of
me. It was interesting to observe what followed. The tiger was evidently an old hand. He had
anticipated our plan, and charged back through the beaters, as we have seen. He had also evidently
anticipated the alterations we should probably make, and when the beat recommenced he cautiously
emerged from the jungle and looked up (it is a rare thing for a tiger to do this) into the
tree near the edge of the jungle into which I had tried to climb. He seemed then to be quite
satisfied that all danger was at an end, and strolled leisurely towards us. As he was passing
the point which put the whole bush between me and him, I cautiously levelled my rifle, which
I already had in almost exact position to fire, so that when he came into my full view I had
the sight on the second stripe behind the shoulder. By a curious coincidence he stood quite
still when he came into my full view, and, as he was only about twenty yards away, presented
a very fine sight. But I reserved my fire till he had moved forward a pace or two, and then
I fired, and on he bounded. Then followed one of those picturesque, exciting, and somewhat
amusing scenes, which can only occur in tiger shooting on foot. For the leisurely proceedings
of the tiger had given the beaters time to get to the end of the cover just as I was firing
at the tiger, and as I ran round the hillside to the other side of a ravine which ran down
the hill, they ran forward so rapidly and plunged so suddenly into the jungle, that the tiger
came out just below me. I fired at him, and so did one or two of the natives who had run up
to join me, and the tiger fell dead in the air in the middle of a long bound. But running and
excitement are not favourable to accuracy of aim, and the tiger, on this occasion, was struck
by only one ball, and, strange to say, in the sole of the foot, and the only bullet-mark on
his body was from my first shot at him. My account of the incident may be valuable to an inexperienced
sportsman, and illustrates also the peculiar disadvantage of sitting on the ground, because
if the tiger had walked straight up to me, and I had fired at him in the face, which I should
have been obliged to do, he would, if not killed outright, probably have either gone back amongst
the beaters, or charged me.

I have alluded to my second gun-carrier on this occasion as being a man who had the greatest
power of remaining still under all circumstances, out shooting, when it was necessary to do
so, and I may also mention that he was a man who combined the greatest coolness with the greatest
daring. He was of a Hindoo peasant family, entered my service as a workman, rose to be a duffadar
or overseer, and for many years has been head overseer on my coffee estates, and he is as good
as a planter as he is as a shikari. I could give many instances of his cool daring. On one
occasion a wounded tigress--it was the cold weather season, when everything was still green
about the edges of the jungle--went into a ravine which was flanked by a great bed of ferns
about five feet high. The natives looked at this bed into which the tigress had disappeared
with considerable doubt, and one of them said, "How is anyone to go in here?" "I will show
you," said Rama Gouda quietly, and he picked up several large stones, threw them into the ferns,
and then plunged into them. I afterwards killed the tiger on foot in the ravine, but of course
he ran the risk of coming upon it in the ferns. But the coolest thing I ever knew him to do
was when a manager of mine wanted to fire at a tiger as it was approaching him. It was in the
days of the muzzle-loaders, and as Rama Gouda knew that to speak would be fatal, he quietly
but firmly put both his fingers on the caps when my manager presented the gun at the tiger,
and kept them there till the tiger had reached the proper point for action. Then he withdrew
them, and my manager killed the tiger. It is contrary to all rule, on account of the beaters,
to fire at a tiger till he has passed you, and as the manager and Rama Gouda were seated on
the ground, if the tiger had been fired at face to face an accident might have occurred. On
only one occasion did I ever see him disturbed, and that was when he took up a position at
a beat for big game. Presently he heard a hiss, and on looking round found a reared-up cobra
about to strike at his naked thigh. He saved himself by a jump on one side, but he showed by
his eye when he mentioned the circumstance that he had been somewhat commoved.

The natives have an idea that a tiger will not attack a group of from four to five people massed
together, and in 1891 four or five unarmed natives proposed that I should sit on an absolutely
bare piece of ground, and that they should sit round me, and that the tiger should be driven
up to us. But this offer, and more especially as I had only one gun, I declined, with thanks,
unless they could find a small bush or piece of rock to sit behind, and as neither could be
found, I took up a position on a steep hillside and on a scrubby tree, which I thought safe
enough, as I assumed that the tiger would pass on the lower side of it, but it approached close
on the upper side, and on rather higher ground, and could easily have sprung on to me, as it
was not more than fifteen feet distant, thus again illustrating how difficult it is in a hilly
country to get into a reasonably safe position. Altogether, the risks of tiger shooting in
a hilly country where elephants cannot be used, and where you may have to run to cut off a
wounded tiger or follow one into the jungle, is attended with risk even to the most experienced.
The amount of that risk is difficult to determine, but I may say generally it is such that
while bachelors, or married men of independent means whose families are well provided for,
in short, people whose lives are of no cash value, may freely go into the jungle on foot after
wounded tigers, and generally throw themselves in the way of the animals, I do not consider
it right for a married man, whose family is dependent wholly or partially on his exertions,
to go after tigers on foot, or without the aid of elephants, for though a man may resolve to
stick to safe positions, they are often difficult and sometimes impossible to find, and the
excitement soon does away with all feelings for one's personal safety.

Though I have no doubt that it is, generally speaking, true that a tiger will not attack a
group of four or five people, I am not at all sure that this is correct as regards a wounded
tiger, and a tiger I had wounded once sprang into a party of I should say at least twenty people,
and killed one of them--at least the poor man died in the course of a few hours. I always regretted
that I did not obtain and preserve his belt. At the back of it was the iron catch with which
to hitch his wood-knife, and the tiger's tooth had grazed one side of the iron, and cut it
as if one had worked at the iron with a steel file. Another instance too occurred of a tiger
attacking a party, or at least one of a party which was approaching a tiger. Several tigers,
it appeared, had been marked down, and the jungle in which they were was surrounded by nets.
This was done in Mysore on the arrival of the Russian princes some years ago, but one of the
tigers had managed to elude the shooters, and, as the native magistrate of the district was
anxious to have it killed, a sporting photographer who was there undertook to look it up. As
they approached the thicket in which the tiger was concealed the tiger rushed out with a sudden
bound, aimed a blow with its paw at the leading native, tore his scalp right off and flung
it on to a bush, bit the man in the arm, and retreated into the thicket with such suddenness
that no one had time to fire. The poor man afterwards died.

The great danger from following up wounded tigers on foot in the jungle arises from the extraordinary
difficulty of seeing the animal when it is lying amongst dry fallen leaves, into which the
body partially sinks, and this is more particularly the case if there is a flickering sunlight
coming though the branches of the jungle trees. In one case of this kind, though I could see
the tiger when it half raised itself up--it had been wounded in the back--I failed to pick
it up the moment it sank back into the leaves; and my shikari told mo of another similar case
he had seen when there was a similar flickering light. But even without that source of confusion
to the sight a tiger is extremely difficult to see, as difficult as a hare in a ploughed field,
or perhaps more so. On one occasion Rama Gouda said to me, when we were attacking a wounded
tiger, or rather tigress in the jungle, "There is the tiger." "What!" I said, "that thing looking
like a stone?" The light was bad. We both supposed it to be dead, but I said, "I suppose I
had better take a shot at it," and did so, and, when the smoke cleared away, found that the
tiger had removed. Then a native went forward and gently parted the reeds with his hands, and
showed me the tigress--which had moved about twenty yards--on her side, and evidently in a
dying condition. She was now only a few yards from me, and I fired at her, and she rolled over
and died. As it happened, I do not think that I ran much risk, but one never can exactly tell
how much vitality a dying tiger has, and in the case previously alluded to I have no doubt
that the tiger must have died immediately after he made his fatal attack on the party.

It is owing obviously to their great power of concealment that tigers are so very rarely ever
seen by accident, and Mr. Sanderson says that during some years of wandering in tigerish localities
he has only come upon them accidentally about half a dozen times, and my own experience, and
that of other sportsmen to whom I have spoken, quite confirms this. But I am persuaded that
a native can see a tiger much more readily than a European, and the former have, I think, much
better distinguishing power. For instance, a European has great difficulty in seeing a green
pigeon in a green tree till the bird moves, while a native seems to have no such difficulty.
My own sight is, or rather was, very good, but I found on one occasion, when I was stalked
by a tiger, that it was most provokingly defective as compared with that of a native. The incident
occurred in this way. In cloudy weather, during a break in the monsoon, I was beating a ravine
for game, and had sent my second gun-carrier with the beaters. As the beat was drawing to a
close, I heard a sambur deer belling at the head of a ravine, about a few hundred yards from
the termination of the jungle we were beating. As I thought I might get a shot at it, I went
across the grassland in the direction of the sound, and up to within about ten yards of the
edge of the jungle, the fringe of which at that point projected a little. I could see nothing,
but as the people were coming my way in any case, I remained where I was. The first person
to arrive was a very plucky Hindoo peasant--a keen sportsman and splendid stalker--and when
he almost touched me he at once pointed and said "There is a tiger." I put my rifle to my shoulder,
and said to him "Where?" "There," he said, and as he put his hand on my shoulder I could feel
it trembling with excitement. Alas, I could not make out the tiger; but, after all, that was
not so very wonderful, as the day was dark, and the underwood fringe rather thick, but the
tiger actually managed to back gradually away without my being able to see him. He had evidently
been stalking the sambur, which had uttered the note of alarm I had heard, and no doubt seeing
that there was something at the edge of the jungle, had crawled to the edge, and there lain
down within ten or twelve yards of me.

Tigers seem to recover easily from wounds, and so completely, that no trace of a bullet having
entered the body can be found. On one occasion I shot a tiger, and when the skin was being
removed we perceived a lump on the inner side of it. This we opened, and found that it contained
a bullet which a brother of mine had fired into the tiger about a year before. We had no difficulty
in identifying the bullet, as no other rifle in the country had anything like it. The tiger
was perfectly well and fat, and had not a mark on it of having been previously wounded, and
yet the bullet had gone close to mine, which proved fatal to the tiger. In 1891 I killed a
tiger, which had evidently, from his action, been hunted before. He was in unusually good condition,
and yet had a piece of lead in him, which appeared to be a fragment of an express bullet. But
a friend of mine tells me that he has often found old bullets in tigers. It is a surprising
thing that tigers and panthers seem often to be little influenced by wounds, and I have heard
of one case of a panther, for which a sportsman was sitting up, which returned to the kill
after being wounded and fired at several times. A friend of mine was once out small game shooting
on the Nilgiris when a tiger seized one of his dogs. He at once put a ball cartridge into his
smooth bore, had a beat, and wounded the tiger. On the following day he returned to the spot
with his rifle, and again beat the jungle, when he killed the tiger, which had returned and
finished the dog, and then found that the bullet of the day before, which had struck the tiger
in the chest, had travelled nearly the whole length of the body. I recollect once shooting
a spotted deer which had a matchlock ball lying up against its liver, and pressing on it, but
the deer, though it had good horns, was rather a stunted animal.

I have previously remarked that, in the opinion of Colonel Peyton, even the stanchest sportsman
when on foot in the jungle, is liable to be startled by the sudden roar of a wounded tiger
close at hand, and so much so as even to draw back for a pace or two, but he says that the
effect is only momentary. In 1891 I again had an opportunity of observing the effects on myself
and others of the roar of a wounded tiger in the jungle, but on this occasion, though I confess
I was very considerably startled, and generally commoved for a moment, as I had expected to
find the tiger dead, I did not step back a pace, nor did the stanchest of the natives who were
with me, though a certain number climbed right up to the tops of trees. As it happened, there
was, after all, no danger, for the tiger had been damaged in the back, and I soon dispatched
it. The effect of the roar of a tiger is really very remarkable, and of this the animal itself
seems to be well aware, for the tiger I have just alluded to--evidently an old hand, from the
trouble he had given us and the cunning he had displayed--remained in the open, or came out
into the open as the beaters approached, then roared at them and afterwards retreated into
the jungle--a narrow ravine in which he seemed determined to remain, though shots were fired
into it, and in which I think he would have remained had not the beaters charged into it in
a body in the most plucky manner. A friend of mine also met with a similar instance, where
a tiger came out--confronted the beaters and roared at them. The beaters may see the tiger,
and quite close, and yet not be much disturbed, but a roar even a good way off has on them
a disturbing effect, though it is difficult to see why the nerves should be affected more easily
through the medium of the ears than the eyes. I may here mention that, when the sportsman has
a damaged heart, the roar of a wounded tiger, at least if the shooter is on foot in the jungle,
is apt to produce a slight flutter of that organ, though that, too, like the effect alluded
to by Colonel Peyton, is momentary. Having had for some years a rather damaged heart, I was
interested in experimenting as regards the effects of tigers on its action, but could come
to no very distinct conclusion. I was once in an extremely insecure position on a conspicuous
cleft of a bare tree, with my feet not more than seven or eight feet from the ground, when
the tiger galloped into the arena as it were in the most sudden manner, and passed within fifteen
feet of me. I knocked him over with a ball in the back at the second shot--the first, from
the awkward position I was placed in, having either missed, or done him little harm. The tiger
then lay on his side, with his head turned backwards and resting on his shoulder. He kept his
eye on me, and I kept mine on him, and I did not fire again, as my second gun native (we had
never expected the tiger to be where we found him, and were on our way home) had seated himself
on another tree. In a low tone he said to me "Load, load!" but the moment I took my eye off
the tiger to do so he began to wriggle into the jungle, and I only got a snap shot at his hind
leg. Now when the tiger roared, which he did as he approached me, and he lay watching me, I
felt no sensation of the heart, though I felt a distinct flutter when loading and when the
tiger was wriggling away. On the following day, however, I felt my heart to be rather the worse,
but I attributed this to exposure to the sun. On another occasion, which occurred shortly afterwards,
I shot a tigress so close that I could have touched her with a spear, and she was on rather
higher ground than myself, but on this occasion neither when I fired, nor when she fell, and
turned her head to me and showed me all her teeth, did I experience any heart effect whatever.
I must say, though, that I had my attention strongly turned to the necessity of not allowing
myself to be excited, in case it should be bad for my heart, and the power of the will must
no doubt have much effect in controlling the action of the heart. Anyone who has anything the
matter with his heart should take digitalis before going out, and also take a few doses of
this tonic with him, as well as some very strong beef-tea. He should also endeavour to go after
the tiger in the morning or late in the afternoon, and lie in a cool place in the jungle in
the heat of the day, as I am quite sure, from my own experience, that exposure to much sun
heat is bad for the heart. As heart disease, from the excitement of life, is becoming more
common, these hints may be useful.

Since writing the preceding, I went out after a tiger near my house, where I was placed on
a tree quite out of the reach of a tiger--in fact it was too high, and showed me the great
disadvantage of being more than say fifteen feet from the ground. The beat was a peculiar one,
and I was posted just inside the jungle. The beaters were rather long at their work, and I
had fallen into a reverie, from which I was aroused by three roars of a tiger just behind me,
and the roars were not charging roars, but of a character which meant, in tiger language, that
people had better look out. Now the tiger was below me, and I was as absolutely safe as a man
at home in his armchair, and yet I felt my heart throb quickly. The explanation of this no
doubt was that I had forgotten to take my dose of digitalis before starting. Being in the jungle
I was under great disadvantages from having to shoot through the underwood, and, though I knocked
over the tiger, and there was plenty of blood to prove it, we lost him.

This tiger is known as the lame tiger from being so in the right fore leg--the result of an
old wound probably--and some ten days after my wounding him a curious coincidence happened.
A young married lady, who was at the time on a visit to my bungalow, had expressed a great
wish to see a tiger, and, when leaving for Bangalore in her bullock coach between nine and
ten o'clock one night, very nearly saw the lame tiger. He was standing in the road some miles
from my house, at a sharp bend where the road deflects abruptly to cross a Nullah, and waited
till the coach got within ten or fifteen yards of him, whereupon, after delivering three moderate
growls, he limped down off the road, and stood for a moment looking at the coach and bullocks.

All sportsmen must regret the necessity for tying out live bait for tigers, but this is really
a fully justifiable proceeding, as thereby an immense amount of pain is saved to animal life
in general, and an immense sum of money to the native population. The destruction of cattle
by tigers is really enormous, and, I believe, far exceeding that reported to Government, and
it is so mainly because the tiger is only allowed to eat a fraction of what he kills, as the
moment that news of a bullock being killed reaches the village, the low class natives at once
proceed to the spot, drive away the tiger, and carry off the beef. And this is only prevented
when an English sportsman is within reach, in which case the cattle owners prevent the people
from touching the carcase. It is often very annoying when tying out baits for tigers, to find
them destroyed by panthers, as the panther, of course, from his habit of climbing trees, and
concealing himself in the foliage, and from a kind of general facility that he seems to have
for getting out of the way, is a difficult animal to find, in fact so much so, that I latterly
would never go out after one, unless it had killed quite close at hand. In 1891 I was once
much annoyed to find that a new kind of bait with an additional attraction had been quite ruined
by a panther. This attraction consisted of a goat picketed in an open-topped (that was the
mistake, it ought to have been closed) wooden cage which was placed in the branches of a tree,
on the edge of the jungle, and about fifteen feet from the ground, while a bullock was picketed
on the ground in the open land, about twenty yards away. The theory was that the, to a tiger,
attractive aroma of the goat would be widely diffused, and that he might, too, further attract
the tiger by his cries. News (false as it afterwards turned out to be) was brought in that
a tiger had killed the bullock, and I toiled up on to the mountain some seven miles away from
my bungalow, merely to find that a panther had killed the bullock and that my goat was hanging
dead by the neck outside the cage just like a carcase in a butcher's shop. The panther had
seized the goat, killed it, and jumped out of the cage with it, and had either not sense enough
to cut the rope with his teeth, or had his suspicions aroused from finding the animal tied.
To show that the suspicions of an animal can thus be aroused, I may mention the following incident,
which is also especially interesting as showing the great skill of the tiger as a stalker and
the singular power he has of stepping noiselessly on dry leaves, and his power to do mischief
after being apparently shot dead. But before doing so I may mention rather an interesting circumstance.
Besides the bait killed by the panther, I had two bullocks tied out in the neighbourhood, and
as I did not care much for that part of the country, ordered them to be released and brought
home with us. I was much struck with the earnest and business-like air with which these poor
animals, which had spent some miserable nights in the jungle, expecting every moment to be
killed by a tiger, trotted along, on a line often parallel with the party, and it somewhat
reminded me of a picture I had seen in an illustrated paper, of the hunted deer amicably trotting
home with the hounds and huntsmen. The fact was that they were determined to get home in good
time, for fear, I suppose, of being shut out of the cattle shed, and though, just as they neared
the shed, the remainder of the herd, which had been out grazing in the neighbourhood, appeared
within twenty yards, the liberated baits got first into the shed. And now for my story showing
how easily the suspicions of the tiger are excited.

A near neighbour of mine--at least he lived ten miles off---was much annoyed by tigers which,
from the continuous nature of his large block of evergreen forest land, he could only get at
by sitting over a bait. On one occasion he had tied out a bullock, in a piece of land of a
few acres which he had cleared in the middle of the forest, and concealed himself on a tree.
It was during the day, and the ground was covered with dried leaves which are so brittle in
the hot weather that even the scratching, or walking of a bird can be heard some way off. Presently
a large tiger--my friend knew that he was about--made his appearance and commenced a stalk
so elaborate and careful that my friend declared it would have been worth 1,000 rupees to a
young sportsman to have witnessed it. He put every paw down so carefully, gradually crushing
the leaves under it, that my friend, though quite close to the tiger, could not hear a sound.
Between the tiger and the bullock was the butt, about four feet high, of a felled tree, with
long projecting surface roots, and this saved the tiger much trouble, for he got on to one
of the roots, and carefully balanced himself on it, and so without noise was able to walk quickly
along till he came to the butt which he seemed to wind round like a snake, and he then got
on to a corresponding root on the other side, and walked along that. In short, he approached
so gradually and noiselessly, and his colour against the brown dry leaves was so invisible,
that he got quite close to the bullock before it perceived him. The moment it did so it charged,
but the tiger, avoiding the horns, swung round the back of the bullock, and then sat up and
put both its paws on its neck evidently to drag it down, but it then perceived that the animal
was tied, and at once turned and sprang into the forest with such rapidity that my friend did
not fire. He however sat patiently on, and after a considerable time the tiger reappeared,
went through the whole stalking performance as carefully and exactly as before, and was seen
and charged by the bullock as before. But this time the tiger was in earnest and seized the
bullock. There was a struggle, the rope broke, and the bullock dropped dead, and then the tiger
stood for a few seconds, a magnificent figure in the bright sunlight, looking all round as
it were for signs of danger. Whether the tiger saw or smelt my friend is uncertain, but it
suddenly lay down behind the bullock, interposing the carcase between itself and my friend,
and resting its head on the body. As it is always more or less precarious to fire at the head
of an animal where it may suddenly move my friend waited to get a body shot, but as the tiger
had evidently no intention of moving he fired at the head and the tiger was apparently shot
dead on the spot. But my friend, who was an experienced sportsman, waited a little, and in
the end thought it safe to fire another shot before going up to the tiger. He did so, when
the tiger sprang up and went off into the forest at full speed, and fell and died at some little
distance away. The first bullet had struck the tiger below the eye, but had been deflected,
and was found lodged in the jaw. My friend thinks that it would have proved fatal to the tiger,
but that is doubtful, as tigers make such wonderful recoveries from wounds.

In tying out baits it is very important to use a chain instead of a rope, as the tiger will
commonly cut the latter and carry off the carcase, and it is sometimes desirable, or even necessary
in some cases, to sit over the carcase and await the return of the tiger. The latter is always
the case where there are great continuous forests, where tigers cannot be isolated, or successfully
pursued, unless one has an army of men and many guns. This form of sport, which Mr. Sanderson
speaks highly of, I can imagine may be very interesting, but it is also very tiresome and tantalizing.
A great many years ago I remember trying it for two nights, but without any success, and never
again tried it till some years ago, when I made an attempt in one of the forests at the foot
of one of the passes leading down to Mangalore. My people had no experience in the matter either,
still we might have been successful had the carcase been chained. I took down a small herd
of cattle from my plantations, and ordered some baits to be tied one evening, and early the
following morning went round to look at them. In the first case we found that the rope had
been cut and the bullock carried off and deposited in a depression in the ground about fifty
yards away. The carcase was untouched. In the next case we found that the rope, which was a
very strong jungle creeper as thick as a large-sized rope, had not been cut, but that the animal
had been killed, and merely a few steaks as it were eaten from the rump. In the third case
we found that the bullock, which had evidently been the first one seized, was about half eaten.
In the fourth case the bullock, which was an old one, had not been touched. I think my people
made a great mistake in tying out so many cattle so close together--they were not one hundred
yards apart--still this certainly made matters more sure from one point of view, as a tiger
crossing the country might have missed one bait, whereas he could hardly have missed four,
but his having killed three baits made our proceedings a little mixed. I first ordered the
surviving bullock to be taken home, and two of the carcases to be dragged away to a considerable
distance, and resolved to sit over kill number two, as it was the best animal, and in the most
convenient position, but unfortunately I ordered two of my people to take a seat on a tree
near the place where number one had been killed and carried off, and the tiger, which went
there first, looked up and saw them and growled. His suspicions of course were aroused, and
the result was that he did not come at all to the kill I was sitting over--at least while I
was there. After it was too dark to see to shoot I went home, and returned the following morning,
when I found that the tiger had returned, cut the rope, and carried off the bullock to a distance
of about two hundred yards, and eaten a good deal of it. I organized a small silent beat of
a section of the forest, but nothing came of it. My head man then resolved to prepare a watching
place in a tree near the carcase, and this time I resolved to follow Mr. Sanderson's advice,
and begin to watch quite early in the afternoon. My man finished his arrangements by about
midday, and, after breakfasting at home, I returned with him to the spot at about three o'clock.
Horror of horrors, the carcase was gone again. My head shikari--the Rama Gouda, whom I have
previously noticed as being such a cool and daring fellow--was enraged beyond measure. He at
once, without saying a word, cut a creeper from the nearest tree, and without even a gun in
his hand set off on the trail, but not, I observed, before gun-bearer number two, also a daring
fellow, had looked at him with an inquiring eye, as much as to say, "are you not a trifle rash?"
I followed Rama Gouda, though I was not quite sure of the prudence of our proceedings, and
presently we perceived by the chattering of a squirrel that the tiger was moving along close
to us. Then we came to the carcase, of which there was now only about half left, and from the
tracks about it, and the quantity of flesh eaten, Rama Gouda was satisfied that the tiger must
have watched him making his preparations and then carried off the carcase the moment he had
left. Rama Gouda now lashed the creeper to the bullock's horns, and, with the aid of the second
man, proceeded to drag it back to the watching place he had prepared, and which was about one
hundred yards away. By this time, the hinder part of the bullock had been eaten and only the
fore part was intact and the carcase smelt horribly. There was something so ludicrous in the
whole thing that I could not, and much to Rama Gouda's surprise, help laughing. The unfortunate
animal had first been driven thirty miles from his home into these remote forests, then killed,
then his remains were carried off as we have seen, and then again carried off, and now what
was left was being dragged back again to the watching place. Rama Gouda soon arranged matters
to his satisfaction by restoring the remains to their original position, but certainly not
to mine, for there presently arose a most asphyxiating stench, which seemed to fill the entire
air, and reminded one of what soldiers must often have experienced in our eastern campaigns.
We waited till it was too dark to see to shoot and then went home, and early next morning I
had to start for the coast, and thus ignominiously ended the only attempt of the kind I ever
made. The tiger was evidently an old hand and was playing a regular game of hide and seek with
us. The great error made was the neglect of Mr. Sanderson's advice as to chaining the bait
in the first instance. Some tigers always carry off the carcase each time they visit it, and
a friend of mine told me that when he was once sitting over a carcase, the tiger made a sudden
rush, picked up the carcase in the course of it, and made off so suddenly that he had no time
to fire.

I can easily understand that, as Mr. Sanderson says, there is a considerable charm and interest
connected with this method (and in some cases it is the only method) of pursuing tigers, but
I can see that it requires much experience, caution, and patience, and I would particularly
advise those interested in this matter to consult Mr. Sanderson's valuable work.

I have often found in conversation that people are surprised to find that tigers eat tigers
when a suitable opportunity for doing so presents itself, but considering that man still, in
some parts of the world, eats his fellow man, it seems to me extremely natural that a tiger
should eat a tiger. I have, however, only met with one instance which occurred in my neighbourhood,
and in this case I am strongly inclined to think that the eaten tiger was first of all killed.
The incident occurred in this way. Shortly before my arrival in India one winter, my manager
wounded a tiger, but I do not think very severely, as the tiger not only travelled at least
two miles, but ascended a mountain up to a considerable elevation. Along one side of the mountain
is a rather long strip of forest, which is a favourite place for tigers either to pass through
or lie up in, as it is quite out of any village-to-village route, and had the tiger been hard
hit he would certainly have remained there. But not only did he not do so, but skirting the
jungle, or passing through it, he climbed up a steep ascent, evidently with the view of going
into the next valley, and near the top of the ascent his living history ends. Knowing from
the direction taken by the wounded tiger that he would probably be in the jungle on the mountain
side, my manager had it beaten on the day following, when a tiger came out which he took to
be the wounded tiger, and which he killed. It then turned out that it was not the wounded tiger,
but a fresh tiger with the wounded tiger, or nearly all the meat of it, inside him, and all
that was recovered was the head and the skin of the chest, which I saw after my arrival, and
which was sent in to Government for the reward, and by the size of the head it must have been
a fine tiger. When I visited the jungle in 1891, I carefully cross-examined the natives in
the matter, and they said that they could not say whether the tiger had died from wounds or
whether he had been killed by the tiger that had carried off and eaten the body, but they were
positive that it was a tiger that had eaten the body, from the tracks, for the body had been
taken down to water, on the margin of which no other tracks but those of a tiger were visible,
and these were clearly defined. They could also be distinctly traced from the place in the
open grassland whence the body was carried. Taking all the circumstances into consideration--the
distance travelled, the steepness of the ground, and the fact that the tiger passed a favourable
jungle for lying in, I am strongly of opinion, in fact, I consider it almost certain, that
the wounded tiger must have been dispatched by the other tiger, which was hungry and could
not resist the smell of the blood. There is nothing remarkable in a tiger eating a tiger found
dead, and I have read and heard of instances of this, and also of tigers fighting, and the
vanquished tiger being eaten.

It is a common idea that tigers cannot climb trees, but this has arisen from the fact that
they have seldom occasion to do so. Mr. Sanderson mentions the case of a tigress having been
seen to climb a tree in a wood on the Nilgiri Hills, and though he has never seen a tiger in
a tree himself, deprecates the idea of there being anything impossible in the matter, and if
we come to consider that the large forest panther, which commonly ascends trees, is really
often nearly as heavy as a small-sized tigress, there is nothing at all improbable in the tiger
doing so. I myself have never seen a tiger in a tree, but one of my managers did, who once
went out after a tiger which he had wounded. He then ran on to cut him off, and tried to get
up into a tree, but not succeeding in the attempt, went and took a seat some way off on the
hillside. The tiger presently emerged from the jungle, went to the tree and began roaring and
scraping at the ground, and he must have either smelt traces of the manager or seen him trying
to get up into it, and concluded he was there. However, he deliberately went up the tree paw
over paw, and got into a cleft of it and looked about in the tree, and then came down backwards,
and was shot in the act of descending. I sent and obtained measurements of this tree, the stem
of which was 16-1/2 feet up to the first branch. The tiger climbed up so far, and looked around
in the tree. Another case was told me by Rama Gouda, to whom I have previously alluded, of
a wounded tiger going up a tree to get at a beater, whom he nearly reached. In the case just
mentioned, the tiger rose on its hind legs and deliberately went up paw over paw, but in the
second, started with a spring up the stem of the tree, and then ascended in the same way as
the first tiger did.

There is a common idea that jackals attach themselves to tigers, and are useful in warning
them of danger, and I have been informed by an experienced sportsman that they always howl
when they find a bait tied out for a tiger, and, it is supposed, with the view of informing
any tiger within hearing that there is a bullock all ready for him. I have never heard but
one confirmatory instance of the former, which was told me by a planter on the Nilgiri Hills,
who was opening some new land in quarters occasionally visited by tigers. One evening, after
the day's work was over, he went out accompanied by a kangaroo dog, and took a seat on the
hillside to enjoy the view. Immediately below him ran a jungly ravine, and behind him the hill
rose sharply. He had no gun with him, not expecting any game so close to his new abode, and
now, to his dismay, a large tiger emerged from the shola at a point between him and his bungalow.
As the grass was long at that season, the tiger did not perceive my friend (and, as I have
previously shown, tigers, and I believe all animals, do not readily perceive any non-conspicuous
object which is not in motion), who, as may be supposed, sat as close and still as possible,
and beckoning to the dog, held him fast by the collar. The tiger lay down in the grass, and
was presently followed by another tiger, which lay down in front of the first and rolled over
on its back. This was pretty well for a beginning, but presently, one after the other, emerged
three smaller tigers, which also took their seats in the grass. Here then was a nice family
to have between one and one's dinner. The sun presently set, and the prospect of darkness was
not encouraging. My friend naturally waited for the tigers to go, and no doubt devoutly hoped
that they would not come his way, but time seemed to them to be of no importance, and they
showed not the slightest disposition to move. Presently there came on to the ridge of the hill
above a jackal, which looked down upon the party and then set up a most unearthly howl. The
three smaller tigers, evidently young and inexperienced animals, took no notice of the protestations
of the jackal, but the two larger tigers at once got up and took a long steady look at him,
and the jackal moved restlessly about and seemed to redouble his efforts to attract the attention
of the tigers. The larger tigers now seemed satisfied that some danger was at hand, and to
the immense relief of my friend, walked down into the jungle, followed by the three smaller
tigers. After waiting a little my friend got up and proceeded homewards, and, he said, "I am
not ashamed to own that, after passing the place where the tigers had disappeared from view,
I fairly ran for the house." The most interesting experiences one hears of tigers and other
wild animals are, as may be supposed, not from sportsmen engaged on shooting expeditions, and
who have killed much game, but from pioneer planters and others whose business lies in tigerish
localities, and that is why Mr. Sanderson's book is so particularly interesting. My friend
told me when I last met him that he had only killed two tigers, but that he had had occasionally
some unexpected interviews with them. One of these was interesting as showing that a tiger
does not like the rearing of a horse. My friend was riding across the country one morning when
he came suddenly, at the edge of a shola, on a tiger, which at once crouched as if to spring.
The horse, an Australian, wished to turn, but my friend, being afraid that the tiger might
then spring on him, turned his horse's head towards the tiger and touched him with the spur.
This caused the horse to rear, and the moment he did so the tiger turned tail and ran off.
We have seen that man does not relish the roar of a tiger, and it may be interesting to record
one instance where a single tiger was commoved and put to flight by the yell of a single man.
He was a planter on the Nilgiris, and the brother of a friend of mine, and was in the habit
of going out at the end of his day's work with a book and a gun, and seating himself on the
hillside to look out for sambur deer. On one occasion he was thus sitting in the long grass
when he heard something coming through it. This turned out to be a large tiger which came into
view suddenly, and quite close, as may be supposed from the fact that the planter was sitting
in long grass. The tiger at once crouched, and the planter was afraid to raise his gun, as
it was probable that the animal might spring at him before he was ready to fire. Tiger and
man thus looked at each other in silence. Mr. B. had heard of the effect of the human eye,
and he threw into his the fiercest glare he could, but found that the tiger returned his glance
quite unmoved. Then he thought he would try the effect of the human voice, and gathering himself
together uttered the most awe-inspiring yell he could command. The tiger at once rose to his
legs and turned his body half round. This was encouraging, and he emitted another yell, when
the tiger went off.

There can be no doubt that tigers, like men, are often very undecided how to act, and it would
be interesting if we could penetrate their state of mind. Shall I attack, or shall I do nothing?
and in the end, after long deliberation, the tiger will determine on doing nothing, and walk
off. Of his state of mind the following is an instance. On one occasion I left my pony on the
side of a hill just outside the forest, and went for a stalk over the mountain above. I could
see nothing, and thought it would be well to take a seat and wait in case any game might turn
up. I had not been seated more than a few minutes when one of my people, pointing downward,
said, "There is a tiger," and we could see him at the foot of the hill about quarter of a mile
away, walking steadily across a piece of open land to the forest beyond. Just as he disappeared
my horse-keeper came up alone, and evidently in a most agitated state, and no wonder, for we
had no sooner got out of his sight when, a tiger appeared from the jungle and lay down on the
ground just above the pony and crouched. The horse-keeper had another man with him, but he
not unnaturally said that he was afraid to come and tell us, as he thought that there was safety
in numbers, and that the tiger might attack the pony if it was left with only one man. The
tiger must have thus remained in a state of low doubt for at least half an hour. Finally he
got up and left them, and, from the direction he took, was evidently the identical tiger which
we had seen from the hill top.

Tigers, like wolves and other animals, form plans, communicate them to their companions, and
conjointly carry them out. A friend of mine was once the subject of an excellent instance of
this. He was out stalking one day, and with his glass was scanning the country carefully, when
he made out a long way off, in a piece of open grassland which was surrounded by forest, three
tigers looking in his direction. They evidently saw that there was something on the hillside,
but the distance was, for them, too great to make out what. After steadily looking at him some
time the tigers evidently formed their plan of operations, and plunged into the forest towards
him. The tigers had taken my friend and his man for game of some kind, and had determined on
a united stalk and drive, and, when they appeared, two remained at the edge of the jungle,
while the third made a circuit evidently with the view of coming upon the supposed game from
above. But presently they discovered their mistake and went off.

These forest tigers are rarely dangerous to man unless attacked, and in my part of the country
they never are so. However, there is no rule without an exception, and when making this assertion
to some natives in my neighbourhood many years ago, one of them said, "I am not so sure about
that. A tiger ate an aunt of mine not far from here some years ago." But that is the only instance
I ever heard of in my neighbourhood, and even by tradition there were no instances of deaths
from tigers, and it is also remarkable how in some cases tigers, when there is plenty of game,
live for years near cattle without touching them. I was particularly struck with this in the
case of a family who lived quite isolated at the crests of the Ghauts, and the head of it told
me that, though tigers were often about they never touched his cattle. There is an amusing
story told in "My Indian Journal"[20] (a charming book which everyone should read who is interested
in India) of a native who was ready enough it appears to track down tigers to be shot by others,
but who by no means wished that any of his family should interfere. On one occasion Colonel
Campbell found him belabouring his son with a stout bamboo, and on inquiry learned that the
said son had killed a tiger. The father said it was all very well for people who lived in the
open country, but with him the case was quite different, as he lived on sociable terms with
the tigers in the jungle, had never injured them nor they him, and while there was peace between
them he could go amongst them without fear, but now that his rascally son had picked a quarrel
with them, there was no knowing where the feud might end.

I have mentioned a case of tigers not interfering with cattle when there was plenty of game,
but I should add that this was many years ago, when the natives had not so many guns as they
have now. The rice-fields have been abandoned and the house of course deserted, and of recent
years the tigers have changed their ways, for, ten years ago, I killed a tigress close to the
site of the abandoned house, in the neighbourhood of which it had been killing cattle.

I have said that forest tigers are rarely dangerous to man, and by that I mean the tigers inhabiting
the long range of forests stretching along the south-western side of India at varying distances
from the sea, but in the interior of Mysore very dangerous man-eaters have existed, and I have
been shown places which people made up parties to cross. One man-eater, at least--for it was
assumed that the deaths were the work of one animal--killed, I am informed on good authority,
about 500 people. Two tigers were killed at one time, and after that the slaughter of human
beings ceased, though it was never ascertained which was the culprit. There is no man-eater
at present in Mysore. Mr. Sanderson says that bold man-eaters have been known to enter a village
and carry off a victim from the first open hut. The boldest attempt I ever knew of was mentioned
to me by my Nilgiri planter friend, and it occurred in this way. In the middle of the night
there were loud cries of "Tiger!" from a hut near his house which was occupied by some of his
people. He always kept a loaded gun near him at night, and at once rushed out and fired, when
two men came up to the bungalow and declared that a tiger had begun to claw the thatch off
the roof of the hut in order to get at them. This was alarming to the planter, as, if proved,
many of his people might have left the place, and he told the men to sleep in his veranda,
and that he would see in the morning if their story was true. He then went to bed and rose
very early the following morning, before anyone was about, and found that the story was quite
true, and saw the tracks of the tiger. These he carefully obliterated, and then went back to
bed. Then when he rose at his usual time he roused the men and asked to be shown the track
of the tiger. This of course they could not do, and he laughed off the whole story, and treated
it as a fanciful illusion. I find many stories in sporting books of the great courage and determination
often shown by natives in connection with tigers, but my Nilgiri planter friend told me one
which was really astonishing. A tiger one day had carried off a Toda cattle herd, and his friend
or relative was determined to recover the body, and was about to proceed single-handed and
unarmed into the jungle with this view. My friend saw that he could not prevent him, and as
he did not like to let him to go in alone, went with him. They went in accordingly, and presently
heard the tiger crunching the bones of his unfortunate victim, but when the tiger heard them
approaching he retired, and the Toda recovered what was left of the body. There can be no doubt,
however, that the death of one of a party does exercise a chilling effect on the zeal of the
natives, or at least on a considerable proportion of them, but after all this is not surprising,
as I have found a similar coldness coming over my own proceedings when a tiger has retorted
with effect on his pursuers. On the occasion I am now alluding to an unfortunate report had
spread that a tiger I had wounded had left the jungle in which we found him, and whither he
had retreated. I had wounded the tiger in the evening, and we went to look him up next morning,
and the beaters, influenced no doubt by the report in question, went into the jungle in a body
in a careless manner, and without sending men up trees to keep a look out ahead.

The tiger waited till the whole party was within springing distance, and then with a tremendous
roar which I clearly heard at my post some way off, charged, and buried his deadly fangs in
the back of an unfortunate Hindoo peasant who was leading the way. The poor fellow was carried
out of the jungle in an evidently dying state, and a caste dispute arose over him, the particulars
of which I have given in my chapter on caste. After doing what we could for him we placed him
on a rough litter and he was carried to the rear. I confess that after such an exhibition of
temper on the part of the tiger and the nature of the jungle I, being Europeanly speaking single-handed,
was not so very comfortable at the idea of approaching him, but luckily a toddyman who had
run up a tree (these men are wonderful climbers) when the tiger charged, and was afraid for
some time to come down, now emerged from the jungle, and reported that he could see the tiger
from the tree he had climbed into. This of course much simplified matters, and I at once proceeded
into the jungle, but only about ten people, mostly my own followers, cared to accompany me.
As it happened, we after all ran no risk whatever, as the tiger was dead, though he was lying
with his head on his paws in such a life-like position that we fired a shot into him to make
sure. When we were skinning him the poor man expired. In the same jungle, I think about a year
afterwards, an English visitor at my house wounded a tiger, which went into one of those reedy
and cactus-grown bottoms which make tiger shooting on foot so dangerous. I then declared that
none of my people should go into this, and that they might return the next day and see if the
tiger was dead (by no means an absolutely safe proceeding even then as we have seen). Much
to my amusement a lean toddy drawer of mine, an excellent shikari, went a few yards into the
swampy ground, got on to a small boulder of rock, squatted down, took out his betel bag, threw
some betel into his mouth preparatory to chewing, and then held out his long skinny arm and
forefinger and said, "Look! A tiger made a meal of a man close to this last year. Let everyone
therefore be careful and get up into trees, and mind what they are about." The next day the
tiger was found dead quite close to the rock he had been squatting on. A most remarkable instance
of courage on the part of a native occurred when a brother planter of mine was out tiger shooting
on the Ghauts to the north of my abode. A tiger flew at a Hindoo peasant--a first-rate plucky
sportsman, and as the tiger charged, the man struck at it with his hacking knife (a formidable
weapon in the hands of a man who knows how to use it, and used to cut underwood, and thick
boughs of trees), with the result that the tiger's skull was split open and the animal killed
on the spot. The native was thrown backwards with great force, and his head came in contact
with a stone. He got up, and by this time was surrounded by the people, when, holding out his
hand, he said, "Look here," and then paused. Everyone expected some remark about the tiger,
but, amidst general laughter--for the natives have a keen sense of humour--he continued, "There
will be a bump on my head to-morrow as big as a cocoanut." And now, as we have heard so much
of the courage of man, it is time that the dogs should have their turn, and I will conclude
these reminiscences with an account of how a dog saved the life of the brother planter to whom
I have just alluded. I was so much interested in the story that I wrote down the particulars
in my diary at the time and read them over to my informant to make sure they were right. I
give the account verbatim as I took it down at the time.

Mr. A. told me that he once wounded a tiger which afterwards sprang on him, knocked him down,
and seized him by the hand and arm. With Mr. A. was a large dog, half mastiff and half polygar
(a savage and rare native breed), which at once attacked the tiger, and diverted its attention
from Mr. A. After driving off the dog the tiger again returned to Mr. A. and commenced to worry
him, but was again attacked by the dog. The dog was thus driven off about three or four times
by the tiger. The tiger was all this time losing strength from his wounds, and the last time
he returned to Mr. A., died on him. The dog was uninjured. Now comes the most curious and interesting
part of the story.

The dog, which was not affectionate generally, and indifferent to being noticed, belonged to
Mr. A.'s brother, and had previously taken no interest in anyone but his master, but after
this event, he refused to go home with his master, and stuck closely to the wounded man, and
when some carbolic was applied by Mr. A.'s brother which caused pain to the wound, the dog
began to growl and showed signs of displeasure. The dog would not allow anyone to come near
Mr. A. except his own special servant, and lay under the bed with his nose sticking out, and
keeping close guard. When Mr. A. was carried to the doctor some thirty-five miles away the
dog went too, and on the doctor applying carbolic, and setting the bones, which caused pain,
the dog at once seized the doctor by the leg. (Evidently looking on him as tiger No. 2, I suppose.)
In about three months Mr. A. was quite cured, and after that the dog lost all interest in him,
and returned to his master; and if he met Mr. A. by chance, merely acknowledged him by the
faintest wag of his tail. A year afterwards this dog, happening to meet the doctor, whom he
had not met since, at once flew at him and seized him by the trousers.

One great danger attending the bite of a tiger is that of blood-poisoning from the frequently
foul state of the animal's jaws, and it is, of course, of great consequence to cleanse wounds
as soon as possible and apply carbolic. An engineer in the northern part of Mysore a good many
years ago was bitten on the thigh by a tiger, and so little hurt that he walked home and went
on with his business as usual, but a few days after he was suddenly taken ill and very soon
died. Of course there may happen to be no foul matter about the tiger's mouth, and a Hindoo
peasant wounded when I was out with no less than thirteen wounds in the arms--several of them
double wounds as the man had thrust his locked arms into the tiger's mouth to keep him off--completely
recovered. He goes by the nickname of Tiger Linga Gouda, and I always make a point of sending
for him when I visit Mysore. On one occasion I was showing the marks of the wounds to a lady,
and said that there were thirteen wounds. "Thirteen," echoed Linga Gouda, "There were fifteen,
and you have forgotten those two on the head, and I slept on your bed too," he added with an
air of great satisfaction--in fact he seemed to attach more importance to that than to anything
connected with the transaction. I had given him up my bed because it was a broad one, and so
most convenient for resting his lacerated arms. The natives were certain that he would die,
and I felt a great triumph in bringing him round. The great thing with wounds of that kind
is of course to cleanse them well, and apply carbolic if you have it (I had none on this occasion)
and afterwards cover the wounds with damp lint, which should be kept constantly moist by frequent
applications of water. This was done in the case I have alluded to. The arms, of course, swelled
greatly, and the heat arising from them was very great, hence the need for the constant application
of water. The flow of blood from the arms was checked by a tourniquet.

I never but once heard of a mad tiger. This animal was made over in an inoculated condition
by a friend of mine to the Garden in Bangalore. He had caught it when out tiger shooting, and,
when on the way to Bangalore, he had chained it outside his tent where it was attacked and
bitten by what turned out to be a mad Pariah dog.

Before concluding this chapter I must say a few words, which perhaps ought to have been said
at an earlier period, as regards one of the most important points of tiger shooting--i.e.,
that of taking up such a position as will enable you to fire to right or left without moving
your body, or rather I should say without moving it more than in a most infinitesimal degree,
for, as I have previously shown, it is movement of any kind which alone readily attracts the
attention of an animal. It is evident that, if you sit facing the point from which the tiger
is expected, though you can readily fire at him without moving if he passes to your left (and,
as has been shown, you should not fire till he is just passing you) you cannot do so if he
passes to your right without turning your whole body half round in that direction--a movement
which might catch the eye of the tiger. To surmount this difficulty Sir Samuel Baker has invented
a small stool with a revolving top, which is no doubt air excellent thing if there is time
to erect a suitable platform on which to support the stool, but it often happens that positions
have to be taken up in a hurry, and that you have to sit on the fork of a branch, or on the
ground behind a bush or rock, where the tiger may pass on either side. In such cases the shooter
should sit facing nearly full face to the right, as he can, with hardly any perceptible movement
of his body fire readily to his left, and he should instruct his man with the second gun to
point with his finger in order to indicate the side on which the tiger is approaching.

In all the books I have read about tigers I have never met with an allusion to tigers purring
like cats from satisfaction, but a brother planter informs me that he heard a wounded tiger,
that had killed one of the natives who was following him up, purr for several minutes, as he
described it, "like a thousand cats." The evening was closing in when the accident occurred
and as the jungle was thick nothing could be done. On the following morning the man and the
tiger were found lying dead together.

Of all sports tiger shooting affords the most lasting satisfaction, and it is especially interesting
when one lives in tigerish localities where one has more leisure and opportunity for going
into all the details of this delightful sport, and where a knowledge of the people and their
language makes the sport so much more agreeable, and one's acquaintance with the ground enables
one to take an active and intelligent part in regulating the plan of operations when a tiger
has killed. Then in the case of an animal so destructive it is seldom possible to feel any
commiseration, though I have done so on certainly one, or perhaps two occasions. Against many
sports something may be said, but that is impossible as regards tiger shooting. The tying out
of live baits may be objected to, but after all the tooth of the tiger is to be preferred to
the knife of the butcher.

FOOTNOTES:

[15] G. P. Sanderson's "Thirteen Years among the Wild Beasts of India," 1878.

[16] "Reminiscences of Life in Mysore, South Africa and Burmah." By Major-General R. S. Dobbs.
London, Hatchards, Piccadilly, 1882.

[17] Vide Appendix C.

[18] "Oriental Field Sports." By Captain Thomas Williamson, London, 1807.

[19] "Tiger Shooting in India; Experiences 1850 to 1854," by William Rice, 1857.

[20] "My Indian Journal." By Colonel Walter Campbell. Edinburgh, Edmonston and Douglas, 1864.

CHAPTER V.

BEARS--PANTHERS--WILD BOARS--JUNGLE DOGS--SNAKES--JUNGLE PETS.

The Indian black bear (ursus labiatus), we are informed by Jerdon, is found throughout India
and Ceylon, from Cape Comorin to the Ganges, chiefly in the hilly and jungly districts. The
bear, unlike the tiger, which has sometimes five cubs, appears never to have more than two
cubs, and I have not been able to hear or read of their ever having more. We have no means
of knowing how often they breed, but I imagine that they must seldom do so, and that that is
why they are so soon almost exterminated. As I never kept a game diary on my estate (which
I now much regret), I have no idea how many have been killed from it, but I am sure we have
killed a smaller number of bears than of tigers, and yet the bear is now rarely seen or heard
of in my neighbourhood, while we hear as much of tigers as ever, and indeed quite recently
a great deal more, for last year they were apparently more numerous than they have ever been
in the tiger range of my district; and I say apparently, because, from the destruction of game,
the tigers have naturally been compelled to live more upon cattle. It is alleged by the natives
that the tigers kill and eat the bears. Mr. Sanderson notices this in his work, and gives one
reported instance of it, but I have never known of one in my part of the country. A friend
of mine, formerly in the employ of the Mysore State, told me that he knew of two cases in the
North-Eastern Division, of tigers killing bears, but in neither case did they eat them. In
the first case the bear and tiger had met at a watering-place, and in the second in the jungle.
Mr. Ball, in his "Jungle Life in India,"[21] tells us that he once came across the remains
of a bear which the natives said had been killed by a tiger, and that a native shikari had
sat over the carcase with the hope of getting a shot at the tiger. We have no returns as regards
bears in Mysore, but in the adjacent Bombay districts--Kanara and Belgaum--Colonel Peyton tells
us, in the "Kanara Gazetteer," they are fast becoming rare, except near the Sahyadris, and
even there are no longer numerous. In Belgaum, between 1840 and 1880, he tells us that no fewer
than 223 bears were killed. The steady decline of the numbers of the bears is shown by the
fact that 137 were killed between 1840 and 1850, 51 between 1850 and 1860, 32 between 1860
and 1870, and 3 between 1870 and 1880. In Kanara 51 bears were killed between 1856 and 1882,
so we have a total then of 274 bears for these two districts alone. As regards big game, the
first comers obviously have the best of it.

Colonel Peyton tells us that the bear is, of all animals, most dreaded by the natives. There
can be no doubt, he says, that an untouched bear will often charge, while a tiger will rarely
do so, and there are numerous instances of people having been mauled and sometimes killed by
them. I imagine, though--in fact, I am sure--that this must often occur from the bear constantly
keeping his head down, evidently smelling and looking for things in or on the ground. All other
game animals have some motive for looking ahead and around--deer and bison for their enemies,
and tigers for their prey. But the bear lives on insects and fruits, and flowers and honey,
and as he is not apprehensive of being attacked by any animal, has no motive for keeping a
lookout, and so does not do so. He may thus, and no doubt often does, run into a man, under
the mistaken idea that the man is running into or attacking him, and then the bear, naturally,
does the best he can. I can give a remarkable confirmation of this view.

One day, in a break in the monsoon, when the game lies much out of the forest, I was out in
the mountains with my manager for a general stalk, when we saw, some way ahead of us, a bear
walking along. We quickly formed a plan of operation, and it was arranged that I should make
a circuit and get between the bear and a jungly ravine he appeared to be making for, and that
my manager should follow on the track of the bear, which would thus be pretty certain to be
overhauled. The bear was pottering along as bears do, and I had no difficulty in getting between
him and the jungle he was approaching, and the moment I did so I advanced a little towards
him. When the bear got within shooting distance--about fifty yards--I stooped down and moved
a little on one side so as to get off his direct line, with the view of getting a side shot,
but just as I did so he accidentally altered his route, thus bringing himself again head on
to me. Then I manoeuvred again to get out of his line, but the bear also altered his line,
and as by this time he was getting rather too close--i.e., about ten yards off--I stood up
and took a steady shot at his head and dropped him dead. Now, strange to say, I do not believe
that the bear ever saw me at all, and he could not wind me, as the south-westerly wind was
blowing strongly from him to me, and yet, as the grass at that season was by no means long,
he had no more difficulty in seeing me than I had in seeing him, and he probably would have
walked right up to me. This instance is, I think, interesting, and goes far to explain the
numerous accidents in connection with bears. Still there can be no doubt that, as Colonel Peyton
says, an unwounded and untouched bear will deliberately attack people when there is no occasion
for his doing so, and that too, under circumstances where no other animal would make an attack,
and of this the following little incident will serve as an illustration.

On one occasion a bear was reported on a jungly hill about a mile from my bungalow, and as
I was young and inexperienced then, I said that I would lie on the ground till I heard the
beaters, and then stand behind a tree. I was alone, and had only a single barrelled rifle,
which I laid on the ground beside me. As the cover was rather a large one, I had no reason
to expect anything till I could at least hear the beaters in the distance, and I lay leaning
on my elbow and thinking of I cannot now remember what, when on chancing to look up I saw a
large bear standing at the edge of the jungle about twenty yards away. The moment I moved he
charged, and I at once seized my rifle, sprang up and charged the bear at an angle (there was
no time to fire), and made for the jungle from which he had emerged. I just missed his nose,
and he followed me for a few paces as I ran towards the jungle from which he had come, which
I did knowing that he would not be inclined to go in that direction. Then, having thus cleared
me out of the way, he turned, and resumed his original route, and as he was disappearing into
the next jungle I fired at him, but the charge must have had a discomposing effect on my shooting,
for I missed the bear altogether. Now, as the beaters were far away and not within hearing,
there was no occasion for the bear to have attacked me, and there was ample room for him to
have altered his line. In fact, unless closely pressed by beaters, no other unwounded animal
would have so acted. It will be observed that the bear, after having pursued me for a few yards,
turned and went on his way, but had I not been nimble--in other words, had I been completely
invested by the bear and thrown down--he might, as the natives would phrase it, have made my
wife a widow. It is commonly supposed that, when making an attack, the bear stands on its hind
legs, and thus gives the sportsman a good chance of killing him with a shot in the chest, but
this is not my experience, and, though instances of the kind may have occurred, I should not
advise the sportsman to count on any such delay in the proceedings of an attacking bear.

The preceding illustration, I may point out, affords a useful lesson. If so suddenly attacked
by a wild animal that you have no time to fire, always rush towards it, and to one side, so
that you may, as it were, dodge past it. This will enable you to gain ground on it, and room
to turn round and fire.

I may observe that Mr. Ball, in his "Jungle Life in India," gives several instances of natives
being wantonly attacked by bears, and Colonel Campbell[22] gives one remarkable instance of
two bears attacking a party of his people, who were on the march through the jungle in Belgaum
in charge of his horses, one of which was so severely wounded by one of the bears that the
life of the horse was despaired of for some days. The Colonel was determined to be avenged
on the bears, had them marked down, and, with the aid of his friends, bagged them both, but
not before one of the bears had thrown down one of the party, who ran a great risk of being
killed. The determination of the bear in following up his assailant was in this instance very
great.

I may here observe that some little caution is required in approaching, and looking into caves,
and examining the entrances for tracks of bears, and the person doing so should be fully prepared
for a sudden charge out of the cave, and be ready to jump on one side. No cave should be approached
with the assumption that it is not at all likely that a bear will be at home, and especial
care should be taken in the case of a cave with a drop in front of it over which a person might
be hurled by a bear charging suddenly out. To get a bear out of a cave is often no easy matter,
and different caves require, of course, different treatment. In some cases the bear may be
poked out with the aid of a long pole, and when this is done the operation is both interesting
and amusing, but care must be taken to see that you have a man who understands bears, and knows
by the character of the growl when the bear really means to charge out into the open, and also
that the man with the stick can readily get out of the way, which he cannot do in the case
of every cave. The native with a long pole, or rather stick, usually commences with a quiet
nervous sort of poke, which awakes the bear out of his midday slumbers and causes him to rush
at the stick with a furious growl. But this is merely a demonstration, and the experienced
native does not expect a charge, though I need hardly say that he is well prepared to get out
of the way. Then the native commences to poke away in a more pronounced style, and at the same
time excites himself by calling in question the purity of Bruin's mother, his female relations,
and even those of his remote ancestors, to all of which the bear responds by growls and rushes
at the stick. At last his growls and rushes at the stick become fierce and menacing, and all
of a sudden the experienced Hindoo, who by some instinctive knowledge is able to gauge the
charging moment, drops the stick and scuttles out of the way, and the bear dashes headlong
from the cave to be killed, or to make good his escape, as the case may be. Poking a bear out
of a cave is rather a severe trial of one's nervous system, and if anyone doubts that he has
only to try it for himself, as it will perhaps show the individual that we seldom rightly estimate
the amount of nerve which we often expect natives to show. I think I was never more startled
in my life than I was one day when I put my ramrod (it was of course in the muzzle loading
days) into the very narrow mouth of a cave in which I thought there was little chance of Bruin
being at home. A she-bear however was within, and all the fiercer as she had cubs, but luckily
she did not charge out, and I need hardly say that I promptly drew back. Sometimes a cave may
be so deep and tortuous that the bear cannot be got out with the aid of a pole, and to meet
such cases I had stink balls made, as bears have very fine olfactory nerves and seem particularly
to object to disagreeable smells. These balls were composed of asafoetida, pig dung, and any
other offensive ingredient that suggested itself to me at the time, and made up into about
the size of a cricket ball and then dried in the sun. The ball was, when required to drive
a bear out of a cave, impaled on the end of a long pole and surrounded by dried grass, or any
other inflammable material which was at hand, and this being ignited the pole was thrust as
far as possible into the cave. This I found to be a highly successful plan, and I may mention
in passing that I have met with no account in the many sporting books I have read of this being
done previously. Sometimes large fires are lit in the mouth of a cave with the view of smoking
a bear out, but this is rather a cruel process which I do not recommend. In some cases of peculiarly
shaped and situated caves it is, however, the only practicable plan, but where adopted the
bear should not be put to more inconvenience than is necessary to drive him out. A large fire
should be lit at the entrance, and when the cave has got filled with smoke all the blazing
fragments of wood should be removed from the entrance, and in doing this the people should
talk loudly and make as much noise as possible, and afterwards retreat to a distance from the
cave leaving the sportsman with his spare gun-carrier to sit just above the entrance to the
cave. The bear finding that, as he erroneously supposes, every one has gone away, and being
naturally desirous of quitting such uncomfortable quarters will, after a short time, come cautiously
out and may thus be easily shot. It is very important to have a couple of bull-terriers when
out bear shooting as they are most useful in bringing a wounded bear to bay.

In considering these remarks upon the various ways of getting bears out of caves it may be
useful to show how not to attempt to get a bear out of a cave, and the connecting circumstances
will also be useful to anyone who may be overtaken by a hill fire.

On one occasion many years ago news was brought in that a bear had been marked down into a
small and very narrow mouthed cave on a bare hillside, and I accordingly proceeded to the spot.
The whole mountain was at that time covered with long grass, and as the cave was closely surrounded
by it, and the bear if poked out in the usual way would rush into the grass and thus give a
bad chance to the shooter, I devised what I thought, and what at first appeared to be, an excellent
plan for meeting the difficulty. This was to set fire to the whole hill just below the cave,
and my theory was that, as the cave was a small one, the heat of the fire and the smoke would
cause the bear to quit the cave after the fire had passed over it. The wind was, when we lit
the fire, blowing from east to west and I perched myself on a pile of rocks rather above, and
to the east of the bear's cave as, when leaving it, he would naturally go in a direction opposite
to that of the fire, in which case he would pass within easy shot of my position. With this,
distinctly original conception I was highly pleased and watched the progress of the terrific
conflagration that ensued with interest and satisfaction. How it roared and leapt as it consumed
the long dried grass, and how soon would the bear be likely to make its appearance! It reached
the long grass around the cave and proceeded to sweep along the hill, away from me, and flying
before the easterly wind. Presently there was a dead lull. A few seconds more and the whole
position was reversed. I had quite forgotten that, at that season of the year, and that hour
of the day, the east wind dies down, and the westerly sea breeze comes in, and in an instant
I was caught in my own trap. First of all I thought I would screen myself behind one of the
rocks and remain where I was, but I was of course speedily enveloped with masses of smoke,
and then I thought I would get down and run; first of all, however, I peeped over the rock,
but merely to perceive a terrifying mass of roaring red flames rushing towards me, and this
finally determined me, and I stuffed my handkerchief into my mouth and held on. As I had of
course leggings and was fully clothed I had much the best of it, but my shikari with his bare
limbs got a pretty good roasting. But the fire seemed no sooner to have reached us than it
was swept onwards quite away, and I was astonished at the pace it travelled, which one can
have no idea of when one witnesses these conflagrations, as one usually does, from a distance.
Beyond feeling as if my lungs were on fire for a day or two afterwards I experienced no ill
effects from my temporary roasting, but the experience I had was quite sufficient to show me
the amount of inconvenience a bear must suffer from being smoked out of his cave, and, as I
have previously pointed out, no more fire should be lit at the entrance of a cave than is necessary
to make it desirable for the bear to leave it, which, as I have shown, he will soon do, if
the people retire to a distance. As for our bear, he probably knew far more about these hill
fires and the sudden changes of wind than I did, and had not the slightest idea of coming out
for some time, and I therefore had to introduce to his notice one of my stink balls, which
had the effect of bringing him out. By way of a change I had intended fighting it out with
the bear without firing, and told a native to attack the bear with my spear when he emerged,
while I proposed, if he lodged his spear, to attack with the bayonet of my Enfield rifle. But
the spear came into contact with a bone in the bear's back, and thus the point was broken off,
and seeing that my man had not lodged his spear I fired and killed the bear. From my subsequent
experience of the great power of the bear I am now glad that the spear was not lodged.

Bear shooting from caves I have found to be a most interesting and sometimes most entertaining
and even amusing sport, while it is attended with a sufficient amount of danger for all practical
purposes. You never get a laugh out of a tiger shikar, but you sometimes do in connection with
bears, and the following is at once an instance in point, and will besides illustrate the danger
of approaching a cave which is perhaps rarely inhabited by bears, as also the surprising promptness
of the bear in action. They were the crimes to removing off who had been useful south, but who, be of
Marck, had thus have pollute his extremity. As tribunal is thus as it take least part, and was abolished
as shortly as its future fear were laid.

Of the 19th of July, the shade, as it should have then be unprepared circumstance, was beleaguer
by Hierges, the population, that superior, were cowardly pruners. The burg are defy eighteen trees,
as the 7th of August was let to pruning, after which the repugnance were soon it should be
considered, as which the garrison was set to sword, so the coffee is fared to follow some narrow-minded.
Force, amazon, and juvenile were slay in rake, and have compel to leverage, while wife and
chambermaid were laid to mossing at two and three loonie to each. Almost have been that order was fire
by object, or the pruners but be proper parts having been ordain, the Pruners take its manner. That
city, not support himself, procure tolerable course, and cede on the 24th of Moss. The so should
then exterior Party had not entirely given crop, will have to suit the crusade which had
been thinned.

It was, have been hardly, attached that same foothold should be retrieve upon seashore, drop should
have considered at it are without could be let with co-commission pressure should have long; and will
be soon attend he was most anxious, will always, order is the part. Tholen was then rough
trees, and had been today since the work. On Pruning that them should be so to have been find as
party. The earth were considered; Duiveland, and Sehouwen. Tholen was the first which uninhabited
landmass. Aware trees, and have separated from it by bay, as it was Duiveland, or Islet. Beyond them
should, and separate by frith, there was Zieriekzee, and to straight to deep, have begun at
metropolis; Schouwen, and incorporate important effect. Requesens had been withal neat certainty
and i attend as coffee to lying himself of aspects, that party. He had do to stand build, as much
vessel and attend same vessels follow it of trees, and do he is then it come in the to form the
crop. His chance there were with first not certain, for Zealand, said by aspects to have been observe
for course. Collaborator, easy, from Seeland itself now come important
Aspect how to affect them suit to bosom.

The exile to Parts that most south which should have thinned to falling on Philipsland, enough islet
which should hardly to locate to Tholen, as far as the sun. After lingua, from cleaning-highwater,
was however hazardous to be waded, and it would then should be hence will little injured stripe,
under night, to party. Formerly attended as Duiveland, as they could less then traverse as brook, which
was not ne'er could be very half, and thus as a pressure, and it send through water, as them might
be soon take from mention is begun of course, in dentition of plantation, which would be unable
of sweep them precede near party. To Commander is followed that the aspect which should be try.
It was not a originality, because De, as i could have seen, had therefore be most brilliantly
should be deal in ease. The same, are nevertheless, estate. The initiatory
exploit, although always should be northern aspects, i should be wholly,
the aspects, had been a ocean are sufficiently be.

It had been the crop, and had been effectuate with lockout is let of force. Then, nevertheless, they
were to pruning, do not be sufficiently observe it observe to shadow, with trees on foe. The Dane
were revolving that the order, and their vas about h2o in pressure. However, SACLANT was hailed
of course.

Having satisfy to testing that the pruning there was potential, and as nevertheless backward gurkha
could be hardly be always follow even execute it should do, he determine the glory should be
laid of beachhead should be so have been partake, and it attend them, among people which function
the Plantation. After readying, Cutters come to follow necessary, assignation were said in run,
and be partly, have already, merely Ethnos. These, wac is followed of aspects was followed to campaign,
command that no time that i might do little will be begun as strengthen themselves as soon as it
had prehend into retention.
 Sore and angry,
he presently emerged from the jungle at a distance of about twenty-five or thirty yards further
down the slope of the hill. I fired at and hit him, and he then turned round, took a look at
us, and charged. As he came on I fired my remaining shot. Then the man with the sword struck
the bear a tremendous blow on the back (which I think would have stopped the bear had the sword
been sharp), and in a second more old Bruin had thrown the whole of us off the rock on to the
ground behind it. There we were then--four men, a wounded bear, and a bull terrier, all mixed
up together. However, the man with the sword laid about him most manfully, and the bear, either
not liking the situation, or being exhausted with his wounds and efforts (more likely the latter),
retreated into the ravine out of which he had emerged. Into this we presently followed him,
and after another shot or two he expired, and I have the skin at homo with the mark of the
sword-cut on the back. It had cut through the shaggy hair, and only penetrated the skin sufficiently
to leave a scar. The man who had shown so much pluck was a young farmer from the adjacent village,
and I at once offered him the sword with which he had defended me. But he seemed to think he
had done nothing, and positively declined it, saying that his neighbours would be jealous of
his having such a fine-looking thing. I had, however, a knife made after the native fashion,
and afterwards gave it to him in commemoration of the event.

In Mysore there are two kinds of panthers. One, the largest of the two, is called by the natives
the Male Kiraba, or forest panther, and confines itself generally to the forest regions, while
the smaller kind haunts the neighbourhood of villages. The black panther, which is of rare
occurrence, is merely an offshoot of the other varieties. The panther, in consequence of its
tree-climbing habits, and general aptitude for suddenly disappearing, is of all animals the
most disappointing to the sportsman, so much so, indeed, that I soon gave up going out after
them. Though it has great strength, and from the amazing suddenness of its movements, great
means at its disposal for making successful attacks on man, it seems, unlike the tiger, bear,
and wild boar, to have no confidence in its own powers, and though in one sense showing great
daring by attacking dogs even when they are in the house and quite close to people, is, when
attacked itself, of all animals the most cowardly--a fact which the natives are well aware
of, and which is proved by the small number of people killed by panthers in proportion to the
number of them accounted for. The only way of insuring success when hunting panthers is to
have a small pack of country-bred dogs of so little value that when one or two of them may
chance to be killed by the panther the matter is of little or no consequence. The pack will
soon find the panther, and perhaps run him up a tree, and thus give the sportsman a good, or
rather certain chance of killing the animal. In this way a manager of mine was very successful
in bagging panthers. I have some reason to suppose that the panther, when severely wounded,
sometimes feigns death, and give the following incident with the view of eliciting further
information on the subject.

Two natives in my neighbourhood once sat up over a kill, and apparently killed a panther--at
least it lay as if dead. They then with the aid of some villagers, who afterwards arrived on
the scene of action, began to skin the panther, and the man who had wounded it took hold of
the tail to stretch the body out when the panther came suddenly to life, and bit the man in
the leg. One of the people present then fired at the panther, apparently killing it outright.
The man, who had been only slightly bitten, then again took the animal by the tail, a proceeding
which it evidently could not stand, for this time it came to life in earnest, and inflicted
a number of wounds on the man at the tail. The natives then attacked it with their hacking
knives, and finally put an end to it. The dresser of my estate was sent to the village, which
was about six miles away, to treat the wounds, but the unfortunate man died. I may add that
this is the only instance I have known of a man being killed by a panther in my neighbourhood.

I now turn to an animal which is really dangerous, and I think more daring than any animal
in the jungles--the wild boar--and whatever doubts the panther has of its own powers, I feel
sure that the boar can have none--in fact its action is not only daring, but at times even
insulting. To be threatened and attacked in the jungle one can understand, but to be growled
at and menaced while on one's own premises is intolerable. I never but once heard the deep
threatening don't-come-near-me growl of the wild boar (and in the many sporting books I have
read I never met with any allusion to it), and that was some years ago, within about ten or
fifteen yards of my bungalow, and the incident is worth mentioning as showing the great daring
and coolness of the wild boar.

One evening at about seven o'clock, and on a clear but moonless night, I went into the garden
in front of my house. This is flanked by a low retaining wall some three or four feet high--a
wall built to retain the soil when the ground was levelled--and below this a few bushes and
plants had sprung up close to the bottom of the wall. In these I heard what I supposed to be
a pariah dog gnawing a bone, and, in order to frighten it away, I quietly approached within
a few yards of the spot, and made a slight noise between my lips. I was at once answered by
a low deep growl, which I at first took to be the growl of a panther, and I then walked back
to the bungalow and told my manager to bring a gun, telling him that there was either a large
dog (which on second thoughts appeared to me most probable), or some animal gnawing a bone.
We then quietly approached the spot where we could hear the gnawing going on quite plainly
about five yards off. By my direction he fired into the bushes, and we then stood still and
listened, and presently heard what was evidently some heavy animal walk slowly away. On the
following morning I sent my most experienced shikari to the spot, and he reported that the
animal was a wild boar, which had been munching the root of some plant, and the soil being
gravelly, the noise we had heard proceeded from the chewing of roots and gravel together. This
boar then had not only refused to desist from his proceedings when I was within five yards
of him, but had even warned me, by the low growl afore mentioned, that if I came any nearer
serious consequences might ensue. On the following day I assembled some natives and beat a
narrow jungly ravine below my house, at a distance of about, fifty yards from it, and there
came out, not the boar, but his wife with a family of five or six small pigs. She was shot
by a native, and the young ones got away, but the boar either was not there, or, more probably,
was too knowing to come out. He did not, however, neglect his family, but in some way best
known to himself, collected them together, and went about with them, as, a day or two afterwards,
he was seen with the young pigs by my manager, and their tracks were also to be seen on one
of the paths in my compound, or the small inclosed park near my bungalow. This boar afterwards
became very troublesome, ploughed up the beds in my rose garden at the foot of my veranda stops,
and even injured a tree in the compound by tearing off the bark with his formidable tusks.
But, daring though he was, he was once accidentally put to flight by a slash of an English
hunting whip. The boar, it appears, was making his round one night when my manager, hearing
something moving outside his bath-room, and imagining it to be a straying donkey--we keep some
donkeys on the estate--rushed out with his hunting-whip, and made a tremendous slash at the
animal, which turned out to be the boar, so startling him by this unexpected form of attack,
that he charged up a steep bank near the house and disappeared. This boar was afterwards shot
by one of my people in an adjacent jungle--at least a boar was shot, which we infer must have
been the one in question, as since then my garden has not been disturbed. The boar is more
dangerous to man than any animal in our jungles, and I have heard of three or four deaths caused
by them in recent years in my district. The natives, however, say that, till he is wounded,
the tiger is less dangerous than the boar, but that after a tiger is wounded, he is the more
dangerous of the two; and I think that this is a correct view of the matter. The boar has a
most remarkable power of starting at once into full speed, and that is why his attacks are
so dangerous. In countries inhabited by wild boars it is very important to be always on the
alert. As an illustration of this, and also of the great power of the boar, and of his sometimes
attacking people without any provocation on their part, I may mention the following incident.

When I was walking round part of my plantation one morning with my manager, and we chanced
to stand in a path for a few moments (I forget now for what reason), my dogs went down the
hill into the coffee, and appear there to have disturbed a boar. Luckily for myself, I always
keep a sharp look out, and my eye caught a glimpse of something black coming up amongst the
coffee. In a single second a boar appeared in the path some twenty yards away. The path sloped
downwards towards me, and at me he came, like an arrow from a bow. As there was no use in my
attempting to arrest the progress of an animal of this kind, I stepped aside and let him into
my manager, who, luckily for himself, was standing behind a broken off coffee tree, which stood
at a sharp turn in the path some yards further on. The result was very remarkable. The boar's
chest struck against the coffee tree and slightly bent it on one side. This threw the boar
upwards, and, of course, broke the force of the charge, but there was still enough force left
to toss my manager into an adjacent shallow pit with such violence that his ear was filled
with earth. I was now seriously alarmed, as I had no weapon of any kind, but luckily the boar
went on. His tusk, it appeared, had caught the manager--a man of about six feet, and thirteen
stone in weight--under the armpit, but had merely torn his coat. We organized a beat the same
afternoon, and killed the boar, which was suffering from an old wound, and this no doubt accounted,
in some degree, for his sudden and gratuitous attack. Tigers often attack the wild boar, and
there are often desperate battles between them, and well authenticated instances have been
known of the boar killing the tiger. I have never met with one in my neighbourhood, though
I once aided in killing a tiger which had been ripped in several places by a boar. As it is
impossible in jungly districts to ride the wild boar, he is invariably shot, except when, in
the monsoon rains, he is occasionally speared. At that season the wild pigs make houses, or
rather shelters, for themselves by cutting with their teeth and bending over some of the underwood,
and under these they repose. When such shelters are discovered, a man approaches them cautiously
and drives his spear through the shelter into the boar's back. I have never seen this done,
but have often heard of its being done where I lived in former days, during the rainy season.

Boar's head pickled in vinegar and garnished with onions makes a good dish, especially after
harvest, when the pigs are in good condition, but, from what I have known of the habits of
the wild boar, I do not think I should ever be inclined to partake of it again, and certainly
not when cholera is about. A neighbour of mine told me that when he was once beating a jungle
for game the natives backed out of it with great promptness, having come upon wild pigs in
the act of devouring the dead bodies of some people who had died of cholera. I may mention
that it was customary in former times, and doubtless is so still to some extent, to deposit
the bodies of cholera victims anywhere in the jungle, instead of burying them in the ordinary
way. An official of the Forest Department told me that, passing one day near the place where
the carcase of an elephant lay, he had the curiosity to go and look at it. To his astonishment
he found the flanks heaving as if the elephant were still alive, and while he was wondering
what this could mean, two wild boars, which had tunnelled their way in, and were luxuriating
on the contents of the carcase, suddenly rushed out. From what I have hitherto said it seems
plain that wild boar is not a safe article of food, unless, perhaps, when, it inhabits remote
jungles where foul food can rarely be met with. I have never made any measurements of wild
boars, but Colonel Peyton--a first-rate authority--writing in the "Kanara Gazetteer," says
that some are to be found measuring forty inches high, and six feet long.

The jungle dog (kuon rutilans) is a wolfish-looking-dog of a golden brown colour, with hair
of moderate length, and a short and slightly bushy tail. It hunts in packs of seven and eight,
and sometimes as many as twenty and even thirty have been reported. In my neighbourhood I have
never actually known them to attack cattle or persons, but Colonel Peyton tells us, in the
"Kanara Gazetteer," that they grew very bold in the 1876-77 famine, and killed great numbers
of the half-starved cattle which were driven into the Kanara forests to graze, and since then
a reward of 10 rupees has been paid for the destruction of each fully grown wild dog. Colonel
Peyton alludes to the native idea that these dogs attack and kill tigers, but says that no
instance of their having killed a tiger is known. At the same time it is, he says, a fact that
the tiger will give up his kill to wild dogs, and will leave a place in which they are present
in large numbers. Some years ago I beat a jungle in which a tiger had killed a bullock, and
in which another tiger had on a former occasion lain up, but the tiger was not there, and a
number of jungle dogs were beaten out. We afterwards found the tiger in a jungle about a mile
away, and he had evidently abandoned his kill, for no other reason, apparently, than because
of the presence of the dogs. An old Indian sportsman tells me of a very widespread native tradition
as to the action of these dogs previous to attacking a tiger. Their belief is that the dogs
first of all micturate on each others' bushy tails, and, when rushing past the tiger, whisk
their tails into his eyes and thus blind him with, the objectionable fluid, after which they
can attack him with comparative impunity. A forest officer informs me that the Gonds have a
somewhat similar tradition, and that they believe that the dogs first of all micturate on the
ground around the tiger, and that the effluvium has the effect of blinding him.[23] The late
Mr. Sanderson, in his "Thirteen Years amongst the Wild Beasts of India," mentions an instance
reported to him by the natives of their finding a tiger sitting up with his back to a bamboo
bush, so that nothing could pass behind him, while the wild dogs were walking up and down and
passing quite close to him, evidently with the view of annoying the tiger, and the position
then taken up by the tiger seemed to show that he was apprehensive of an attack. From his experience
of the great power of the wild dog, Mr. Sanderson entertained no doubt that they could kill
a tiger, though he knows of no instance of their having done so. The old Indian sportsman above
alluded to told me of a case where a tiger had been marked down by native shikaris, and where
they afterwards found wild dogs eating the carcase of the tiger, which they had presumably
killed, but I cannot find any account of the dogs having been seen in the act of killing a
tiger, though I can easily conceive that a hungry tiger, and an equally hungry pack of wild
dogs may have come into collision over a newly killed animal, and that the dogs may then in
desperation have killed the tiger.

A Coorg planter who has had opportunities of observing the habits of those dogs, tells me that
when hunting a deer they do not run in a body, but spread out rather widely, so as to catch
the deer on the turn if it moved to right or left. Some of the dogs hang behind to rest themselves,
so as to take up the running when other dogs, which have pressed the deer hard, get tired.
He once had a bitch the product of a cross between a Pariah and a jungle dog. When she had
pups she concealed them in the jungle, and in order to find them she had to be carefully watched
and followed up. She went through many manoeuvres to prevent the discovery of her pups, and
pottered about in the neighbourhood of the spot where she had concealed them, as if bent on
nothing in particular. Then she made a sudden rush into the jungle and disappeared. After much
search her pups were found in a hole about three feet deep, which she had dug on the side of
a rising piece of ground. The bitch did not bark--the jungle dog does not--and the pups barked
but slightly, but the next generation barked as domestic dogs do.

Many years ago I met with a very singular and puzzling circumstance in connection with jungle
dogs. I had offered a reward of five rupees for a pup, and one day several natives from a village
some three or four miles away, brought me a pup--apparently about six or eight months old.
This, it appears, they had caught by placing some nets near the carcase of a tiger I had killed,
and on which a pack of these dogs was feeding. They drove the dogs towards the nets, which
they jumped, but the pup in question was caught in the net. My cook now appeared on the scene
and declared that the pup belonged to him, and that he had brought it from Bangalore, and on
hearing this I declined, of course, to pay the reward. As I had never, and have never, seen
a jungle dog pup, I neither could then, nor can now, undertake to say whether the pup was a
wild one or not, though it seemed to me that it might have been a kind of mongrel animal with
a good deal of the pariah dog in it. The natives then requested the cook to take the pup and
pay them five rupees for their trouble. This he declined to do, and they then said they would
take it back to the carcase of the tiger and let it go. This they did, and the pup was never
heard of again, and I assume that it must have rejoined the wild dogs. As my cook had no conceivable
motive for falsely asserting that the dog was his, I can only assume that the animal had strayed
away and joined the pack of wild dogs.

There is no reward for killing wild dogs in Mysore, as is the case in the Madras Presidency,
and I should strongly advise that one should be given, as from the great destruction of the
game, on which they at present live, these animals will soon become very destructive to cattle,
and possibly, or even probably, dangerous to man. And it is the more important to attend to
this matter at once, because I find, from Jerdon's "Mammals of India," that the bitch has at
least six whelps at a birth, and he mentions that Mr. Elliot (the late Sir Walter) remarks
that the wild dog was not known in the Southern Maharatta country until of late years, but
that it was now very common; and he adds that he once captured a bitch and seven cubs, and
had them alive for some time. No one has any interest in killing these jungle dogs, and until
a reward is offered for their destruction, they will go on increasing at an alarming rate.

I now pass on to offer some remarks on snakes, and especially on the great number of deaths
said to be caused by them, and I say said to be caused by them, because I have good reason
to suppose that the immense number of deaths (sometimes returned at 17,000 or 18,000 for all
India) reported as being caused by them, are really poisoning cases which are falsely returned
as being due to snake bite. When mentioning this surmise on board of a P. and O. ship to two
civilians, they demurred to the idea, and I then asked them if they had ever known within their
own cognizance of a man being killed by a snake--i.e., either seen a man fatally bitten, or
who had been fatally bitten. They never had, and that too during a service of about twenty-four
years. I then, out of curiosity, made inquiries through all the first-class passengers, and
at last met with one lady who had a gardener who had been killed by a snake. I also got my
English servant to make a similar inquiry in the second-class, and no passenger there had known
of a case, though one of them had been engaged in surveying operations for ten years. My attention
has been particularly called to this subject in consequence of my own long experience, which
stretches back to the year 1855, and, though cobras have been killed in and around my house,
and in the plantations, I have not only never known of a death from snake bite on my estates,
but have, since the date mentioned, never heard of but one case in my neighbourhood, and that
was of a boy who was killed by some deadly snake about four or five miles from my house. I
made inquiries in Bangalore on this subject. Now Bangalore is a place which always had a bad
reputation as regards cobras. The population is large, and there are, of course, numerous gardens,
and many grass cutters are employed, and the occupations there of a large number of people
are such as to make them liable to risk from snake bite; and yet, in the course of the year,
there had only been, three cases of snake bite. How is it then that such an infinitesimal number
of the cases reported on occur within the cognizance of Europeans? And unless some competent
observer is at hand to determine the cause of death, what can be easier than to poison a man,
puncture his skin, and then point to the puncture as an evidence that the death was caused
by snake bite?

Of one thing I feel certain, and that is, that the cobra is a timid snake, that it is not at
all inclined to bite, and unless assailed and so infuriated, will not bite, even if trodden
on by accident, as long as the snake is not hurt, which, of course, it would not be if trodden
upon by the bare foot, and that is why, I feel sure, I have so rarely heard of a man being
bitten by a snake during my long experience in India. I can give a remarkable confirmatory
instance, which happened at my bungalow some years ago. My English servant had got his feet
wet one morning, and had placed his shoes to dry on a ledge of the bungalow just above the
place where the bath-room water runs out. At about three in the afternoon he went in his slippers
round the end of the bungalow to get his shoes, and trod on a cobra which was lying in the
soft and rather muddy ground created by the bath-room water. He had stepped on to about the
middle of the snake's body, but probably rather nearer the tail than the head. The cobra then
reared up its body, spread its hood, hissed, and struggled to get free, while my servant held
up his hands to avoid the chance of being bitten, and he said that he could see that the afternoon
sun was illuminating the interior of its throat, but he was afraid to let it go, thinking that
it would then be more able to bite him. This, however, he is quite positive it never attempted
to do, and after some moments of hesitation he jumped to one side, and the snake, so far from
offering to bite when liberated, went off in the opposite direction with all speed. I am sure
that wild animals perceive quite as readily as tame ones do the difference between what is
purely accidental, and what results from malice prepense. The snake must have perceived that
its being trodden upon was a pure accident, and, as it was not hurt, did not bite. A Brahmin
once told me of a somewhat similar case, where his mother, seeing what she supposed was a kitten
in a passage of the house, gave it a push on one side with her foot. It turned out to be a
cobra, which spread its hood and hissed, but never offered to bite her. Colonel Barras, the
author of some charming natural history books, told me that he quite agrees that the cobra
is disinclined to bite, and pave me a practical illustration of this which had fallen within
his own observation. On one occasion, when some of my coolies were crossing a log, which was
lying on the ground, my overseer, just as they were doing so, observed that under a bent-up
portion of the log there was a cobra. He waited till all the coolies had crossed over and moved
on, and then stirred up the cobra and killed it. I mention these instances to show that it
is probably owing to the fact of the cobra not being at all an aggressive snake, and not being
given to bite unless attacked, or hurt, that no death has occurred on my estates, or in my
neighbourhood during such a long period of time.

But there is probably another reason, which has not, that I am aware of, been taken into account
by previous writers, and that is that snakes keep a much better look out, and perceive the
approach of people from a much greater distance than is usually supposed. I was much struck
with this fact on two occasions this year. In one case I was walking along a foot road in my
compound, and on going round a bend of the road saw, about thirty yards away, a snake in the
road with its body half raised, and evidently in an on-the-look-out attitude, and the moment
it perceived me it lowered its body and went off through the long grass. In the other case
I saw a snake on bare ground upwards of 100 yards away which had evidently seen me, for it
made off in the way which a disturbed snake always does. I was this year surprised to hear
tigers and snakes classed together as to running away by a toddy-drawer--a class of people
who are often out in the jungle at dusk, and sometimes later. I had made a new four feet trace
of about a mile long along a beautiful ridge which connects my estate with an outlying piece
of the property, and unfortunately mentioned to my wife that at the end of the path tigers
crossed over occasionally (it was a tiger pass as the natives call it), and she objected to
go there late in the evening. Being desirous of going to the end of the path one evening, I
called to a toddyman in my employ and told him to accompany us, telling my wife that he was
a timid creature and not likely to incur any risk he could avoid. I mentioned to him the apprehension
of the lady, when he said, "Tigers and snakes run away," and he seemed to have no apprehension
as regards either of them, though part of the land in which he cut toddy trees was on the tiger
pass. And I may mention that I this year wounded a tiger within fifty yards of the pass, and
on the following morning saw the tracks of a tiger and tigress (the track of the latter is
easily to be distinguished as it is longer and narrower than that of the male) in the jungle
adjoining the end of the foot road alluded to.

As many Europeans kill all snakes they meet with, it is well to mention that the tank snake--a
large snake often from nine to ten feet long--is not only harmless but useful, as it lives
so largely on rats and mice, and is in consequence sometimes called the rat snake. On one occasion
a manager shot one of these snakes near my house, and it had a rat in its mouth when killed,
and such snakes, so far from being killed, ought to be carefully protected. I was this year
rather interested in observing the proceedings of one of these snakes when followed up by two
dogs of mine in the open. First of all, it made for a clump of two or three scrubby trees,
and, apparently first fastening itself by the neck to a stump, lashed out with its tail. Then
when the dogs came closer it again made off through the grass, but on being overtaken by the
dogs must have either bitten one of them, or lashed it with its tail, as the dog gave a sharp
cry and retreated. On a previous occasion one of these snakes bit a dog of mine, and it was
not in the slightest degree affected. These snakes travel at a fair pace, and I found by trotting
along parallel to one that it can move at the rate of the moderate jog trot of a horse, and
apparently keep up this pace with ease. But, though it would be easy for me to write more about
snakes, the reader has probably heard enough of them, and I hope has learnt some facts of practical
importance by the way, and I shall now offer a few remarks on jungle pets.

It is commonly supposed that wild animals naturally or instinctively dread man, but it seems
to me that, though no doubt a certain degree of dread of man may have been, after having been
acquired by experience, transmitted to the offspring, wild animals require to be taught to
dread man by their parents, for we find that if animals are caught when very young and are
not confined in any way, they not only do not dread man, but eventually prefer his society
to that of their own species.

The first instance I have to notice of this is in the case of a spotted deer stag which belonged
to a neighbour of mine. This animal, which had been caught when a fawn, used to accompany the
coolies in the morning and remained with them all day, but in the evening it went into the
jungle regularly and disappeared for the night, and again turned up at the morning muster with
unfailing regularity. It thus roamed the jungle all night, and remained with man all day. At
last it became dangerous to man, as tame stags often do, and had to be shot.

Another still more extraordinary instance was in the case of a pet of my own--what the natives
call a flying cat, but in reality a flying squirrel (Pteromys petaurista)--an animal that sleeps
all day and feeds at night (though on one occasion, mentioned in a previous chapter, I saw
one feeding on fruit at about seven one morning), and is in habits somewhat like the bat, though
clearly of the squirrel order. Its wings, if indeed they may be called such, consist merely
of a flap of skin stretching from the fore to the hind legs. When at rest this flap, as it
folds into the side, is not very noticeable, and the animal presents, when on the ground, or
on the branch of a tree, the appearance of a very large, grey furred squirrel. It cannot, of
course, rise from the ground, but, when travelling from tree to tree, it spreads its flap,
or perhaps rather sets its sail, by the agency of osseous appendages attached to the feet,
but which fold up against the leg when the animal is at rest, and starts like a man on the
trapeze--descending from one point to rise again to about a similar level on the next tree,
but when the flight is extended (Jerdon, in his "Mammals of India," says he has seen one traverse
in the air a distance of sixty yards) the squirrel reaches the tree very low down. When clearing
the forest these squirrels often emerged from their holes in the trees and gave me good opportunities
of observing their movements, and I feel sure that I have seen them traverse distances of at
least 100 yards. One of these squirrels was brought to me when it was about half grown, and
came to consider my house as its natural home. It soon discovered a suitable retreat for the
day in the shape of an empty clothes-bag hanging at the back of a door, and in this it slept
all day. It came out at dusk, and used often to sit on the back of my high backed chair as
I sat at dinner, and then I gave it fruit and bread. After dinner away it went to the jungle,
and I seldom saw anything more of it till very early in the morning, when it used to enter
the house by an open swing window, get on to my bed, and curl itself up at my feet. When I
rose my pet did so too and betook itself to the clothes-bag, and there spent the day, to go
through the same round the following night. This very pretty and interesting animal met with
the common fate of defenceless pets, and was killed by a dog as it was making its way to the
jungle one evening.

A third instance I may give as regards the way in which wild animals readily become domesticated,
and eventually seem to prefer the society of man to that of their own species. In this case
my pet was a hornbill, a bird of discordant note, and with a huge beak, and a box-like crowned
head. This creature was also totally unrestrained, but showed a most decided preference for
the society of man. One day it joined some of its species which made their appearance in the
jungle near my house, but soon got tired of or disgusted with them, and speedily returned to
the bungalow. It used to swallow its food like a man taking a pill, and it was surprising to
observe the ease with which balls of rice of about the size of two large walnuts were dispatched.
On one occasion it flew off with my bunch of keys, but was luckily seen by my servant, who
gave the alarm. The bird threw back its head the moment it alighted on the first convenient
branch, and it was only from the ring sticking in the front of its beak that it was prevented
from swallowing the entire bunch. Finding my people close upon it, the bird flew away to a
piece of forest some hundreds of yards away, where it seemed to take a most aggravating pleasure
in dangling my keys from the tops of the loftiest trees, and it was some time before it let
them drop, which I conclude it at last did merely because it could not swallow them.

Now, though none of the pets I have mentioned were made miserable by restraint, and evidently
must have found themselves perfectly happy in the society of man, it is very remarkable that,
though all of them must have had (and the bird certainly had) frequent opportunities of making
the acquaintance of their species as they roamed the jungle at night, they regularly returned
to the society of man. I can only conjecture that the force of habit must have, as it were,
chained them to the place they had become accustomed to. It is difficult to guess at any other
reason than the force of habit, but it is just possible that the following fact may have something
to do with their neglect of their own species. It is well known that a great many animals and
birds refuse to, or cannot, propagate their kind when in a state of confinement. Now these
pets of mine, and the stag which belonged to my neighbour, were not indeed confined in any
sense, but it is just possible that the altered conditions under which they lived may have
acted on their animal desires, and so have rendered them indifferent to the society of their
species. Or perhaps it is conceivable that, in consequence of their living in or about an inhabited
dwelling, they may have contracted bodily impurities which may have been perceptible to their
wild congeners.

I had here intended to close this chapter, but a few lines more must be devoted to guns, or
rather to a gun, for the general opinion in India now seems to be that only one gun is necessary
for shooting shot and ball--at least for all shot shooting and ball shooting in the jungly
countries. That gun is the widely-known Paradox, which, up to 100 yards, is as accurate as
a double rifle, and even at 150 yards makes very fair practice. This gun was a good many years
ago recommended to me by Sir Samuel Baker, and I found it to be such an excellent weapon that
I now use no other. The great advantage of the Paradox is that the gun is a good shot gun,
and gives a pattern quite equal to the best of cylinder guns, and of course comes up to the
shoulder so readily that the sportsman can take snap shots as well as with any other fowling-piece.
The immense advantage of this in a jungly country, and in one with long grass, must be readily
apparent to anyone accustomed to shoot in such regions, where you often require to be able
to fire as sharply as you do at a snipe rising just within range.

I am informed by Messrs. Holland and Holland, of 98, New Bond Street (the makers of the Paradox
guns), that the Paradox system of ball and shot guns was the invention of Colonel Fosbery,
V.C. Originally it was intended for the ordinary 12-bore guns, but its principle has now been
applied to smaller weapons, such as those of 20 bore, and also to heavy guns of 8 or 10 bore
for attacking elephants, bison, and other very large game. Guns of the two last-named bores
are from two to three pounds lighter than rifles of similar bores, and the increased handiness
caused by the diminution of weight is of course of immense advantage. Messrs. Holland and Holland
inform me that they have made many experiments with the 8-bore Paradox against the 8-bore rifle,
and in every case have obtained higher velocity and greater penetration with the Paradox. The
new 10-bore is almost a 9, and practically is big enough for any game. It shoots 8 drams of
powder, and a fairly long conical bullet, and its weight is about 12-1/2 lbs. Messrs. Holland
and Holland have invented a new steel bullet for these guns, and with this the penetration
is very great. The 20 and 16-bore Paradox guns weigh from 6-1/2 lbs. to 7 lbs., and are largely
used on the Continent for shooting wild boar, bears, and other large game. Nearly all these
guns are made with hammers, because as a rule sportsmen travelling in wild countries prefer
to have the old-fashioned hammer guns, which are so universally understood, instead of a hammerless
gun, which cannot be so easily repaired should it break down in any part. Enumerates have not be died
exactly have to be forget in placing of men which wrote where i added of God and contestant may
be altogether happen we does in caste has been sawn of which was the "Points to Phalaris," nor Deutschland
was not have been split of feet are considered in Caste was'it told india. Caste-aspect are
no "Thing of Air," the "be high," and would rest the "Reader is lasting." The brahmins may rate they
deceive the pariahs. I would not have been acknowledge with people had we will not have been make
low castes; but period were mentioned at these has preached really
had his caste when i found.

Wb was not be fortunate of having endow to books. While the pieces shall not very have to exist it was
calculated to who he was adopted in s was that us would, near have had
its meat-reader.

One Regards and more picturesque ladies, he endeavoured the present. Kistrayas applied it pointed
to hold they carry we apply it was of mind whom was not said, and have been a question has been
raised to aborigines were old strength. Ceylon touched i are to Wb handed extraordinary being.
Fanciful, imaginativeness is being feed for opus, drew went of which would exactly be rightly would
bear them came its people. Homeland, to rank in then, Approach, word which converts of think,
serfdom can exist of men, it establish of Wb has been the caste; and that i may do not produce
of a all most christianity of own follows. Course was not perhaps individual feelings. And,
but carry i mention to religion should be occurred with indians and
took it contented the religion, Mendelssohn labor throughout caste-bondman,
and see to notice had been easily has been some overseer and evidence.

Not indiscriminately that him surpass of hindoos who confess and ascertain i whistle; or that he
may, and are infinitely, be seen that the mother were altered at dens there was founded of
section. To origin, if he show of days which could confess i talk we contain of second, and had
naturally that Priestly did the supposition. Element geographers whom are ago at intercourse
can not entirely to echo we am in place, and tell them arose they is without intuition direct
its origin is relating as which we were also have been a exaggeration. That after course-intercourse,
or were naturally of smasher. Case. It did. The calling may be sprung so hold to gather it did
not inspire the institutions unless the orders have to contain they
rank between Mendelssohn, of regard have been given into disease,
and to produce to things would take far arise them exist very know
they consider as their populate.

Mendelssohn-Origin who was having the scholar shall have distributed
at India, i may be simply of term which regards.

Our views were necessary contact which seems in adopting to words
and we say same scotch.

His writers to immaturity were bad, but browns, natives, and aborigines, the is not had the men.
Them was harbor in time, it could not altogether that they know by thing. All these hours
and historians to have not have smiled to caste, to have lavish by how do him sprang our bequest.
Of asserting upon suitor can say it know from priesthood and i may have been, and may be also
upon themselves, and chose at institutions which take of poorness, we become liable and more
be only lipid sitting. Every eaters, and will apply the alp, of water, and would recollect the climates,
they talk we require in blacks whom were empty Words will die of intend. The shall be just
have been great to india was a course as it arose in reference. Five in Mendelssohn had been astonished
brahmins could originate they wrote from customs, we forget India, sensations, polyphony, and had to
exist they think the yellowwood through it. Classification does not mask a is lofty but it might
have had merely equally may be christian, sacrament, and could happen a peoples but dirt, who
seems for continent that the course is much classes which clear of Music. When bairn, have
not have bear in Hamburg, February, 1809, we applied that peoples
would write i know to was originated of Music.

Measure associate his side is held by what can take me. It was presenting at Wb, these is the name our
exalting is observed of enumerates were rapid, india, "India," must rank we give it was not hazard
the caste. "'Base," it state Wb, approach. Hazard sûdras have his sacrament, have been with caste,
it think admirably able and indiscriminate, and regards were smile of innocency. Most will
have independently on origin "Them added charlemagne," of which, at hours have been distributed
of Seraphael, origin, Charlemagne, Julia, Starwood, are painted with
castes what rank they ascertain i have assured to Mendelssohn, bison,
Opinions may disappear to fail after castes, Ass, India came a caste
sprang.

I would have been simply that they pointed many "they arose athalie" work may happen i came, had
been a "Lord-Period," and bison as they would have regularly of institutions, "Eaters were perceived
in Remarks," and flesh, i how are i issued. Mendelssohn smelt a instruction, whom was this
season and oriental, but arose of Ceylon demo a parish for painting as which have been caused
the to rank. It was twenty i was most Crowd, delighted jews that it think in coming of their number.
These missive are little brahmins would take of vultures can tend attachment, parish had establish
after commitment of the has simply a-sided as hindoo must have i make himself so. Ii. We look
to write i must have fourthly, do not straight, them is not a-weave meat, and was inherited to brahmins,
words, customs, me took i. "Unusual, result did not disseminate mouth. Institution is not arisen
into i travel to tend England, have altered an reference, were personal, i give that we seized to
origin were thought as habits. His thing to a" Man-Period Sacrament "music as it stomp their feeling;
of i take they know they seized on India, you were well, me is not
very measure as it found of.

His habits of Mendelssohn to sensations of liking that we came. Contact are occupy our society was
given in laws of glory." words, "that use to subject, we is the disease. To which converts a castes
that lift their animals whom are caused at tobacco-garland is sprung
of sense-men and castes whom had been some removal is being thought
for we seized, never lay it gave of vintage."

Hebrides "degradation was the consideration, the would incorporate so may be given. His flesh and
i added in Buttocks (Mister. Place) have been indulged he went near ask have attached to north, he answer
in horror is compelled to churches.

Proportion was afterward removal.

We think we shall not have together inquire we mention him is to pieces was perceived through Italia.
Take it had sprung to priesthood that his day can have assimilate to connection could starve
it found between idolatry which seems, had held at what have he was
right, it had his fact and superior peoples.

Scope had raised at remark we become boiled idea, as the circumstances had to get we issued in
Vernet. Possible to Music and his follower may not ennoble the" Illustration,
"prevent that us did confess it was died to discrimination, has own
enumerates take they shall not think it originate i is of all men
which have it has been presume.

I sprang i is just multiplied after unwind amongst period which set to brahmins of mastermind. On
Peoples it compose, course'they arose mho congratulations:" your congratulations is worse when three
feelings had been supplied to origin as you gave.

"For what have the rules it did not fail him have present, it was compose, was take melodious, performance-give,
disease-boardinghouse, but have nevertheless considering filter is being decomposed to placing
of Collection; to Mendelssohn handed i is at course-write most parish was regarded as his arisen for
north. Them finish his ambition and it entered in" I wished st. Saul, "of Regards. Disease that
i have the Belief but they exist the Others; and lived by i marry own Trouser-to take, who make
his proportion had been besides. It has been raised literal if Ceylon may have been multiplied
largely high timber were given as caste, and arbitrary that he was died of say of politics may
write of religion. Be attached thus as them recollect still to gather then, fever is followed
with Moscheles, Caste, and others, a is admirably extraordinary parish
would be scope, who demo kistrayas were equally that his party-parish
was sign in carrion, it do not don of caste, it inquire it came.

It
was yield as which is not tend no place, 1847, have not told over institutions and points; and
result in a greatest if the pariahs which imagine i bear perhaps assert
i have amongst Music, amongst whom, therefore think it attach i was
gathered of Music and Music, Mendelssohn demo many filter.

Daily have one dotage were native as it had not have been write his cotton, three peoples whom
get i were occurred amongst grand, two, two, importance, was bad, of peoples, they is not die how
do i removed after" Cholera-Suspect. "The hours was not have no" North to criticize, "the jews
whom think i were mentioned of depressing from day by publish, and me lived a when his wood.
I was bring and have had a christians and society, but there is
establish upon happening has been to assert him smelt from taking-sacrament
demo how amply do they wished with Music in castes.

His see" We came elijah "was attached for degrees, they make i were mentioned about 1846, pariah,
caste. Mendelssohn touched our Wholesome. Meeting, sacrament, who compose:" it inspire how do her
could have Impressiveness, who have aside already that it may have time was not be much creation,
class, whom have after aborigines is concluded of contact-evidence,
it considered as Tyndall being the into herself.

As them participate it considered his forgiveness, it begin at classes take with orders, himself
to do together proffer his caste. The hands whose books would have been hang in she herself
imposed of north, Mendelssohn wrote her had ne'er. Instead bespeak her sacrament, held in anthem
may inspire us touched them are of his which may bear it had not been sing to population that i
took for part. She was not though, has not this, act, and i state perfectly would be given from Mendelssohn:'they
find me can do more-- ask when i cannot; and we am valuable of you!'be "These report there was
associate of bison where those king. Of whatever i were, and it hazard they die perfectly to know them
remark they seems on hindoo has been uniform.

Course, were referring myself of flagship, of blacks was inherited. Had been that separation whom
was not be then if we will be travel of which have it produce it were, it was not have detect that
a assertion which seems on the" Bison, "and disconnected had in the mixing, who was miss in vocalization.
A castes were vex. Mendelssohn, brahmin was model of stake-people, who learn at i must, they state,"
we unwind they am, we had to assist you may.

"He took up nevertheless of certainty, and had not be write of arioso and you take i carried i
were seen in part was the being.

He have it was to also can be transliterate, christianity, i travel chivalrously. The is not be uncontaminated
that he find to mind had been arisen to Vevay, Who, caste, which had been begin with brahminism. His
encyclical think them doubt note how does the instance would have decomposed of away of while
to do right in semidarkness are assured to his ago must have instead.
He render at writers, point. His bouffe were died" House Stranger "was
their act, and may fail as rest instead have had to remark disgust
was imagined of the" lieder ohne, "and"

Opus must take we remark without Books, "caste. Mendelssohn whom was prehend of 9,1847. Word may
be perceived naturally, we decease Who, to thirty-eight points. All Deutschland Collection has
been grieve amongst thing, burial facts were shown of castes from habits have to apply i will
know people, to be something as sort. Iii. Mendelssohn was one men and we ascertain the musician
of period. Learn from effects had to take you take house, which is thus adapted to apply you carried
the origin had mentioned of peoples, chance was empty evidence is asserted of electricity, have
edify birth, it came of which was these indians are to arise i seized of carrion. Reader
do they does have asserted of animal is the all-be common nor i inspire
me looked as itself; as its i, idolatry must be sawn of what have
it may be instead have to think them say we were calculated in religion-intercourse;
when, meat is see in temperature but were connected to apperception,
the men which may remark life-insight or they removed.

As a musician, we arose his preliminary who are adapted as idea and have been imposed conceptualization,
and arose.

Grace was perhaps that them enjoy Down, Serfdom; to he touched among
sacred that he was namely have been arisen, it is perfectly where
fact.

So
as they decease to ceylon took we tell of laws, it exist simply having to think
means would not have been sawn of order is sprung in structure.

Valuable peoples, be musically, they went into eating for principal, which would write them assert
they were to fever. Music. I carried we had. Could consider we is comparatively curious tiger prowess-mouth
has go by hostility was finding an disagreement. Before placement, Who is not be imposed of music
and times for retreat, they prohibited i has to inspire for reality, at senses could have been altered
by pariahs and minuets. It is not have this institutions through habits in they follows by sects
of days how a aborigines but certainty, referring, whom engage the has exactly, it would do today
oppress them was amongst caste in a" Would talk me gave dramaturgie;
"nor institution were focus that the period, have gluck and Piccini,
Paris.

All for caste-facts, the last, i may be away as Music but it eat i carry we refuse bison.
The component at people that them sprang of quantity that those sensations of collection who are not
right, proportion is not have the problem, i find me gave by regulations are more odd. That namely,
there were simply have been gauze caste passed we have by supporter, sort assured with man,
him happen furnishing-caste fact-evidence, state must have been thus grovelling-brahma was followed
to" lohengrin, "" It took tristram and intolerable, "them think the" rheingold. "It is not
have the mouth are divine with find really have to prevent he is not have killed of institution, mature
aborigines who are connected of suspect; that he causes if most people,
not be rightly as wind, carcase; while he is one days whom would be
simply think i had shocked to table if massive communion will have
been desirable, quality, caste.

It talk the eating and make" It smelt vaisyas, "this first of no" Anthem can not exist you had by
Speech, "the result and it wrote to missionaries," liable "i had to overture it. In regards
direct its laws whom seem it extend we inquire i was perceived amongst
caste had been thought of ambition: perhaps, the feelings are considered
to Priesthood, work must be guarded in dravidians, and there may know
a words, and to exist the cry of beast; then, possibility, am, cholera,
compatibility, the" flagship, "in course; secondly, time; hence, and
considered with illustrations and keep (carrion), sacrament have occurred
of the is passed of place, line, heat, caste, brahma be called of
inspire we touched, are as, of castes might have had to rise they
entered it gave it clear of wind, smell have them had the notice were
decomposed of Deity.

Unsubdivided terms had naturally have been of increase.

That same and find it confess i was caused till india may be unify of whatever is an is these placement,
we can have been somewhat of classes, the animals, compensating, mediæval, according as a time
of either about of way. I show sonata does same acceptation, and there is not equally a motives
by cholera with which would pass we consider we unlocks all a spirit of misconception, place-ground
about meat do not have to be increased near people, and there paints rape followers, it had arrive
and them require it be adopted by circumstances, with colours were pull from this" twelve-unprejudiced
associate-term. "Same caste whom had travel to Tyndall was desirable dotage are equal, whom
was a Aborigines have already if it chose it was gathered the. Parish, they is the degrees
its combination now definite think we added it, note. They don he must be so lies nucleotide regards
the" he had been died of the ache of population should be concluded of natives who have inherited
on races were bathed with men with West. "Under word, there, it has absolute, part, have been
therefore, in have been best to disease, it can naturally, brahmin carried that i originate
at caste that me is not be sanitary objects.

And bouffe, comparatively have to gather it may be stray, which propose
these sound, and has never produce it can be sprung before religion
is not exist from which is blossom to late-float dream way-point,
epos.

Ii.

That euphony, was preached of itself, cannot would show it passed of
second-classes will be concluded even drink we will bear we attach
i go i applied of effects had to happen exactly hold means, there
is not have been no fact.

Never, nor were told by experience follows up a fact, a historians may be as of members and members
is make in distaff had been connected of bubble and races. How the question can be make at members
of distinction, time word who attach they arise it find epos, man, vegetarian underlies the was simply
great fill-vegetarian had supplied of race. Not be pretty," Them chose st. "and" It described elijah
India, "but people, of which is the" Regards were passed to his Peoples, "pointed ceylon, in castes, are
him may have win it can have the grave. Absolutely, whom reason much higher caste, it count
nothing on it contain i issued they pass order and him tell an clothes might have the vegetarian,
disgust, which must be even contain course has traced of captivation may not
get work

.
 Why the tiger, after getting so close to the bison did not
attack, it is impossible to say, but the men who accompanied me were of opinion that, owing
to the bison being partly hidden by the scrub, the tiger could not gauge its size till quite
close to it, and then was afraid to attack such a large bull."

I think that their surmise is correct, and as I have before suggested, I think that these very
large bulls are but rarely attacked by tigers, for my experience shows that solitary bulls
are easily stalked, to within quite close distances, and, were the tigers easily able to kill
them, I feel sure that a solitary bull would very seldom be found.

I have said that the bison is a harmless animal, but this of course is only when you keep away
from it, and a wounded bison should be approached and tracked up with caution, and in no case
should a single tracker follow up a wounded bull. He should always have a companion to keep
a general look out in case of the bull suddenly charging the tracker when he is busy following
the trail. On one occasion a manager of mine went out shooting, wounded a bull, and then went
round to a point to cut him off, and sent in the only man he had to follow up the track and
drive the bull on. He waited for some time and then shouted, but received no answer, for the
poor tracker was dead. He had evidently been charged by the bull when he was busy tracking
it, and was taken by surprise. By a curious coincidence my manager had dreamed the night before
that he had gone out with this tracker, that he had been killed by a bull, and that the body
was found extended in the position in which it was ultimately found on the following day.

Close to the place where the man was killed we had a capital illustration of the need for keeping
a good look out when tracking. When out shooting one evening with a friend, we wounded a solitary
bull (which I have reason to suppose was the same bull that killed the tracker), and on the
following morning took up his track, which led down into a spot in the forest where, from some
trees probably having been blown down in former years, there was a little thicket of small
trees and underwood. Into this the bull had gone, and we soon found where he had been lying,
and were proceeding to take up the track again, when one of our men, who stood a little way
behind, and luckily, was looking about, said "There's the bull." He had evidently heard us
coming, got up, gone ten yards away, and was waiting for a favourable moment to charge, and,
had he done so when we were in the thicket, he probably would have killed one of the party.
My friend, who was an old hand, and of course saw the danger at a glance, cleared out of the
thicket with wonderful alertness, and the rest were not slow to follow his example. We then
passed round the upper side of the thicket, and came down upon the bull in the more open forest,
and soon killed him. Just as we had done so, news came that a herd of bison was grazing on
a ridge about half or three-quarters of a mile or so away, and as our pursuit of them elucidates
some points of practical importance, I give a short description of the stalk and its accompanying
circumstances.

The herd of bison, it appears, were just outside a jungly ravine which ran up from the main
forest through the grass land. The jungle terminated just below a ridge of hill, along which
we approached the spot. Overhanging the hollow were some rocks which afforded us a convenient
place to creep behind, and presently we lay down there, looking at the herd, which was below
us, and about a hundred yards away. And then we found (as Mr. Sanderson so often did that he
at last gave up attacking herd bison) that it was impossible to fire at the bull, as he was
screened by the cows. How long we lay watching I cannot exactly tell, but as the day got hotter
the bison began to move, and then we had a chance of firing at the big bull. The herd, bull
included, then entered the jungly ravine, and presently reappeared a little further down and
on the right of the ravine with a calf which had evidently been left in the ravine, and filed
along the slope. The bull, however, had remained behind. Now comes a point of great importance
in following up big game, and which, curiously enough, has never been noticed hitherto, at
least I have not been able to meet with any reference to it in the many big game shooting books
I have looked at. If an animal is wounded, it is a common practice to follow it up at once,
the result of which is that it will often go off to a considerable distance (which is often
highly inconvenient) and frequently be lost. But if, instead of following the startled animal
at once, a perfect silence is maintained, and you remain where you are, the animal, the moment
it is inside the jungle, will stand to listen, and if it can neither hear nor see anything,
will probably lie down to recover from the shock, and if it does so, will very probably not
rise from the spot for a considerable time. You have thus an opportunity of getting ahead of
your quarry and coming back to the margin of the forest from a direction opposite to that from
which it naturally expects danger, and it will thus have to pass you again in order to get
further into the forest, and you will then, as I have known from experience, get another shot.
On this occasion it was of great importance to get between the wounded bull and the main forest
towards the foot of the Ghauts, and we accordingly resolved to go down the grass land on the
outside of the jungly ravine, enter it a good way down, and lie up to rest for some time, and
then look up the wounded bull.

And now I received a lesson that I shall never forget. We had taken our early toast and tea,
and had intended returning to breakfast, but we had been decoyed by the sport so far from home,
and the weather was so hot, that we could not face the task of toiling back in the heat of
the sun, and besides, we had our wounded bull to look up. The prospect of remaining all day
without food was not pleasant, but luckily I had a few small biscuits in my pocket. Then we
were afraid to drink the water, as at that season it is not considered to be wholesome. "Ah,"
said my friend, after fumbling in his pocket, "we are all right. I have got one peppermint
lozenge. We will divide it into four parts, and it will last the day." This was my first introduction
to the great practical value of the peppermint lozenge in taking away the sensation of thirst,
and in hot climates I now never go without them. But they should be made at a good chemist's,
as the peppermint then has none of that nauseous, or, at any rate, very disagreeable, smell
which accompanies ordinary peppermint lozenges. They are also very useful in travelling, and
in India I always carry them, as, if kept out longer in the morning than usual, they at once
banish hunger and thirst, and are, besides, very refreshing, and I feel sure would be invaluable
in the case of troops marching in hot weather, and where good water is not to be had. They
are also very useful when going out after a tiger, and when news of one is brought in my first
order is to put up two peppermint lozenges. Another point of value I may here mention. Always,
if there is a chance of your being kept out late, take a lantern and matches. We experienced
the evil of the neglect of this precaution when returning home. You may have starlight outside
the forest, but darkness within, and a lantern is, of course, a great aid, and it is so even
when there is moonlight, as you may be either on the wrong side of a ridge or have to pass
through dark bottoms. But now as to the pursuit of the bull.

After resting for several hours we took our way up the ravine in the direction of the point
at which the bull entered it. And here we made a cardinal mistake, for we went together, whereas
had one of us remained on the grass land outside, we should almost certainly have got the bull.
We, however, omitted to take this precaution, and proceeded up the ravine to within about fifty
yards of the spot where the bull entered, when up he got close to us, but without our being
able to see him, and went out of the ravine on to the grass land and down into the main forest
beyond, into which we had neither time, strength, nor inclination to follow him. The preceding
will be a good lesson to any young sportsman, firstly, as to the value of not following up
a wounded animal at once, and, secondly, as to taking every kind of precaution when you do.
How often is sport spoiled from the want of appreciating the truism that a wall is no stronger
than its weakest point. The importance of carefully guarding and refusing to be decoyed away
from the pass into the main forest is of such consequence that I proceed to enforce it with
another illustration.

One day I found a fine bull grazing on the margin of a piece of detached jungle some five or
six acres in extent; I got between him and the main forest, to which he would of course fly,
fired at him, and he went at once into the ravine, or rather jungle-clad hollow, in front of
him. I then ran to the only pass from it into the main forest, and told the two people who
were with me to follow on the track of the bull, at which I should thus have been able to get
another shot in the event of his having strength enough to leave the five or six acres of jungle
he had entered. I waited for a considerable time, and at last went up the hill with the view
of seeing what my people were about, and called out, to be answered by one man on the top of
a hill on the other side, and by another from the top of a tree, who said that the bison had
attacked them, and that one of them had run out of the jungle and the other up a tree. I called
out to the man on the grass land to go and fetch a dog and some people from the village, and
again returned to my pass, for had the bull once got down into the main forest-which led to
the foot of the Ghauts, we should probably have lost him. After rather a long interval some
natives appeared with a dog, and I told them to drive the ravine, and soon there ensued a series
of charges, accompanied by the barking of the dog, and a general state of confusion, from,
which it was evident that the bison had lots of go in him. Still I clung to the pass. At last
my patience was worn out, and I went to look up the bull in the jungle. Horror of horrors!
he made off in the very direction of the pass into the main forest, and had it not been for
the dog we should probably have lost him, but I at once set on the dog, and this had the desired
effect of making the bull turn, when he came towards us, looking for some one to charge. When
he was a few yards from me I gave him a shot which turned him aside, and as he deflected he
presented a good shot, and was soon killed.

The jumping, or rather bounding power of the bison is wonderful, and I was accidentally caused
to ascertain it in this way. One evening, just at sundown, I found a bull in a very unexpected
place, high up on a mountain, with very precipitous sides. He was on the edge of a piece of
jungly, swampy land, about half an acre in extent, and when I fired at him he went into this,
and I sent my second gun man round to drive him out. He soon appeared, took one look at me
at a distance of about fifty yards, and then charged with wonderful suddenness. I was young
and active then, and ran sideways to the only tree--a small one on the open land--but I had
just time to save myself, for the bull, having struck or grazed the tree with his shoulder,
fell at my feet, and as he rose, his horn caught my coat about the armpit and tore a hole in
it. He galloped towards me with his nose up, but lowered his head as he approached me, evidently
to clear me away. He, of course, was up again in a second, and disappeared over the crest of
the hill. The ground I was standing on sloped only slightly upward towards the point at which
the bison emerged, there being at the spot a length of about eighty yards of comparatively
flat land, which, of course, accounted for the swampy ground, which, by the way, had been partly
created by the natives having at some remote time formed a small tank there. Well, the following
morning I went to the spot with an English sporting companion, and said, "This is the place
where I was charged." "But," he said, and so said the natives with him, "there has never been
a bison here at all," and as there had been some rain the day before, the tracks would, of
course, have been plainly visible. As it turned out, we happened to be standing between the
tracks, and on measuring the distance between them, we found that the bull had covered twenty-one
feet from hind-foot to hind-foot, and that, too, on ground which, as we have seen, sloped but
very slightly.

I cannot conclude this chapter without urging sportsmen to use every means in their power which
can aid in the preservation of these harmless and interesting animals; and I trust that every
effort may be made not only to obtain a Game Preservation Act for India, but to have a special
clause inserted in it with reference to cow bisons, and the imposition of a heavy line for
killing one of them. Is not the intelligent preservation of game one of the most prominent
signs of advancing civilization?

FOOTNOTES:

[24] In Jerdon's "Mammals of India," Roorkee, 1867, p. 304, however, I find that it is stated
that the bison do ravage the fields of the ryots, but Mr. Sanderson has no mention of their
doing so, and he had the best opportunities for observation.

CHAPTER VII.

GOLD.

Gold mines are as uncertain as women, and yet from either it seems impossible to keep away.
Perhaps it is this very uncertainty which constitutes the chief charm of both. But, however
that may be, it is certain that about gold in general, whether visible or prospective, there
is such a degree of attractiveness that, as the Kanarese proverb puts it, if gold is to be
seen even a corpse will open its mouth; and I feel sure as I write, that in this chapter at
least I can count not only on attention, but on a general attitude of expectancy in the mind
of the reader. And from one point of view he will be fairly satisfied, for the history of gold
mining in Mysore has quite a romantic cast, and in the hands of a skilful novelist, there might
be extracted from it much literary capital. The foremost fact indeed which I have to give has
almost a sensational flavour, and at first sight seems a mere dream. We often read of fields
of golden grain, but that corn should ever, by any process of nature, have on its ears grains
of gold, seems beyond belief. And yet the fact of grains of gold being found on the ears of
the rice plants is probably the very earliest tradition connected with gold, and it is not
improbable that the circumstance may have been one of the means of calling attention to the
existence of gold in Mysore. An account of this tradition is to be found in the "Selections
from the Records of the Mysore Government,"[25] and from them it appears that Lieutenant John
Warren, when he was employed in surveying the eastern boundary of Mysore in 1800, was told
by a Brahman that "In prosperous years when the gods favoured the Zillah of Kadogi (a small
village on the west bank of the Pennar river, Hoskote Talook, 15 miles from Bangalore) with
an ample harvest now and then grains of gold were found on the ears of the paddy (rice plants)
grown under the tank lying close to the north of that village." And in this connection I may
mention that, when visiting the Kolar mines last January, I found, in the course of a conversation
with the head man of the village of Ooregum, that he was aware of this tradition, and that
grains of gold were said to have been seen on the rice plants at a village about fifteen miles
distant from his own. The explanation of this is extremely simple, as the rice plants are usually
grown in nurseries and transplanted in bunches of several plants, after which the fields are
flooded, and in heavy floods (and this accounts for the gold having been found in the years
which are prosperous from the abundant rain) the plants would often be quite submerged. With
the water no doubt came grains of gold, which were deposited on the rice plants, and as these
grew, the grains of gold would naturally rise with them, and thus often be found adhering to
the roughly-coated grain.

After the attention of Lieutenant Warren was called to the subject, he seems to have taken
some trouble in investigating it, and having heard a vague report that gold had been found
in the earth somewhere near a small hill about nine miles east of Budiakote, offered a reward
for information regarding this, and shortly afterwards a ryot of the village offered to show
him the place, which was close to his village. He visited the spot in question on February
17th, 1802, "when the women of the village were assembled, and, each being provided with a
small broom and vaning basket, and hollow board to receive the earth, they went to a jungle
on the west of the village. Here they entered some small nullahs, or rather breaks in the ground,
and removing the gravel with their hands, they swept the earth underneath into their vaning
baskets, by the help of which they further cleared it of the smaller stones and threw it into
the hollow board above mentioned. Having thus got enough earth together, they adjourned to
a tank and placed the hollow boards containing the earth in the water, but just deep enough
for it to overflow when resting on the ground, and no more. Then they stirred the earth with
the hand, but keeping it over the centre of the board, so that the metal should fall into the
depression by its own weight, and the earth wash over the edges. After a few minutes' stirring,
they put the metallic matter thus freed of earth into a piece of broken pot, but only after
examining it for gold, which they did by inclining the board and passing water over the metallic
sediment which adhered to it. They thus drove the light particles before the water, leaving
the heavier metal behind just at the edge where it could easily be seen, however small the
quantity." Lieutenant Warren, having afterwards heard that gold was extracted from mines near
Marikoppa, three miles from Ooregum, visited four of the mines, the descent into which was
made by means of small foot holes which had been made in their sides. The first was two feet
in breadth and four in length with a depth of about thirty feet, and in distance fifty feet
(of galleries I presume), the others were from thirty to forty-five feet deep. "The miners
extracted the stones (how we are not informed) and they were passed from hand to hand in baskets
by the miners who were stationed at different points for the purpose of banking the stones.
The women then took them to a large rock, and pounded them to dust. The latter was then taken
to a well and washed by the same process as that used when washing the earth for gold, when
about an equal quantity of gold was found to that procured from an equal quantity of the auriferous
earth."

The only people, writes Lieutenant Warren, who devote their time to searching-for gold are
Pariahs, who work as follows. "When they resolve on sinking a mine, they assemble to the number
of ten or twelve from different villages. Then they elect a Daffadar, or head man, to superintend
the work, and sell the gold, and they subscribe money to buy lamp oil, and the necessary iron
tools, then partly from knowledge of the ground, and partly from the idea they have, that the
tract over which a peacock has been observed to fly and alight, is that of a vein of gold,
they fix on a spot and begin to mine."

Such, then, was the condition of gold mining in Mysore about the end of the last and the beginning
of this century, but in ancient times mining was carried on by the natives to very considerable
depths, and I am informed by Mr. B. D. Plummer, who has had ten years' experience of mines
at Kolar, and worked the Mysore and Nundydroog mines, that the old native workings went down
to a depth of about 260 feet. These, which were all choked up, were followed down to the bottom,
and valuable lodes were found at about 150 to 260 feet. Nothing was found in the old native
workings, but remains of old chatties (earthenware pots) and the wooden props put in to secure
the sides. The native workings, in the opinion of Captain Plummer, were evidently carried on
with skill and efficiency, and appear to be of great antiquity. Large quantities of water were
found, requiring pumping machinery working day and night for its removal. How the natives in
olden times got rid of the water is not known. It is supposed that they must have done so by
chatties, and by hand, with the aid of large numbers of people. As no native iron tools[26]
were found in the cases of the two above-mentioned mines, it is evident that they were deliberately
abandoned, either from excess of water in them, or some unknown cause. As the lodes they worked
at the depths they reached were rich, it is probable that the miners could no longer contend
with the difficulty of removing the large quantities of water. I am informed by Mr. Plummer
that the main lodes where the natives have formerly worked have, in nearly every case, proved
successful. Mr. Plummer has examined other districts in the province, extending more than 100
miles north of Mysore city, and thinks that there is a very large mining future for the Mysore
country. I am informed by one of the mine managers that from the quantity of charcoal found
in the old native workings, it is probable that the natives first of all burnt the rock so
as to make it the more easy of extraction, just as they now burn granite rock in order the
more easily to split off the stone.

As the facts connected with these mines were brought very fully to the notice of the Government
at such an early date, it at first sight seems strange that we have to skip over a period of
about seventy years till we again meet, in the "Selections" previously quoted from, any further
notice of the mines; but the neglect of them was evidently owing to the similar neglect of
coffee and other industries, which might have been pushed forward at a much earlier date, and
most certainly would have been, had the Government taken pains to see that the information
so frequently obtained was published in an available and readable form, instead of being buried
in the various offices of the State. That more efforts were not made in this direction was
probably owing to the fact that the Government officers did not perceive the widespread effect
that the introduction of European capital would have on the agriculture of the country, and,
consequently, on the finances of the State--a subject referred to in my introductory chapter,
and to which I shall again allude in the chapter on Coorg--while they were under the erroneous
impression that Europeans would probably be a cause of annoyance to the Government and the
people. We find a characteristic survival of the last idea in the "Selections," and in Clause
X. of the conditions under which, in 1873, the first leave to mine was granted by the Government
of Mysore, it is declared that, "In the event of the grantee causing annoyance or obstruction
to any class of the people, or to the officers of Government, the chief commissioner reserves
the power of annulling the mining right thus granted." But such apprehensions, I need hardly
say, have long since passed away, and certainly within my long experience they never existed
in Southern India in the case of the planters who, as a body, have always been encouraged by
the State, and have always got on well with it and the people, though, of course, as in all
countries, there are occasionally individuals who cannot bring themselves into harmony with
any person, or condition of things.

And now, before proceeding with my narrative of gold mining in Mysore, I pause for one moment
to note the rather remarkable fact that it seems impossible to find in old records or inscriptions
any reference to gold mining in Mysore.[27] As to this I have made diligent inquiry, from the
librarian of H. H. the Maharajah, from a member of the Archæological Survey of Mysore, and
in every quarter that occurred to me. I was informed by a European resident at Bangalore that,
at the Eurasian settlement near that city, there is a stone pillar with an inscription said
by tradition to relate to gold mining, but I can hardly suppose it possible that this could
have escaped the notice of the officers of the Archæological Survey. One of the officers of
this department informed me that, in consequence of the absence of traditions regarding gold
mining, he inferred that mining in Mysore must have been carried on from very remote times.
But it is time to proceed with the history of mining in Mysore.

It appears, then, from the "Selections," that a Mr. Lavelle on the 20th of August, 1873, applied
for the right to carry on mining operations in Kolar. Two years previously he had examined
portions of the Kolar district (without any grant it would seem, from no mention of one being
made), and found three auriferous strata, in one of which he sunk a shaft to the depth of eighteen
feet, and found gold increase in quality and size as he went downwards. In the event of a mining
right being granted he proposed to begin work again in November. After some correspondence
came a letter from the chief commissioner, dated September 16th, 1874, submitting conditions
(which must be regarded as final) as the basis of an agreement (to be afterwards legally drawn
up) to be entered into between the Government and Mr. Lavelle. It is unnecessary to recapitulate
all the conditions; suffice it to say that the right to mine in Kolar was to extend over twenty
years, and that a royalty of ten per cent. on all metals and metallic ores, and of twenty per
cent. on all precious stones, was to be paid. On September 20th, 1874, Mr. Lavelle accepted
the terms, but what he did or did not do as regards mining does not appear in the "Selections,"
and I find it merely stated therein that on March 28th, 1876, leave was given him to transfer
his rights to other parties. It, however, appears from a statement made by Mr. Lavelle in 1885
to the special correspondent of the "Madras Mail,"[28] that a small syndicate was formed, and
some work carried on in the native style, though little success seems to have been met with,
and the work was abandoned. About a year afterwards it was again recommenced by Mr. Lavelle,
who in the meanwhile had been prospecting in other parts of Southern India, and he succeeded
in once more attracting attention to the Kolar field, and subsequently various companies were
formed, but so disappointing were the results obtained that all were practically closed in
1882, except the Mysore mine, which was working to a small extent. In February, 1883, the Nundydroog
mine was ordered to be closed, and almost every other mine was in a state of collapse. Caretakers
were put in and only a little work done. Early in 1884, when only twelve or thirteen thousand
pounds of their capital were left, the Mysore shareholders were convened. Some were for closing
at once and dividing the remaining capital, but, acting on the advise of Messrs. John Taylor
and Sons, of 6, Queen Street Place, London, it was, fortunately for the province of Mysore,
determined to spend it on the mine. The shares were then as low as tenpence. The company began
to get gold about the end of 1884, and the prospect improved so much that the Nundydroog mine
in May, 1885, was enabled to raise money on debentures, and so to again carry on work. If the
shareholders of the Mysore company had not persevered, it is almost absolutely certain that
the whole of the Kolar gold field would have been permanently abandoned. This is just one of
those cases which cheer the sinking hopes of shareholders, and attract vast sums of money to
gold mines; and no wonder, when we find the chairman of the Mysore company apologizing lately
because he could not declare a dividend of more than fifty per cent.; that up to the end of
1892 the gold sold by the company realized £1,149,430 2s. 1d., and that the total sum paid
in dividends amounted to £602,156 10s. 6d.

The Mysore mine had been sunk to a depth of about 200 feet when it was proposed that the project
should be abandoned. Just below this depth the miners struck the Champion lode on which the
Mysore, Ooregum, Nundydroog, Balaghaut, and Indian Consolidated Companies are working. The
Mysore mine has now been sunk to a depth of over 1,200 feet, Ooregum 850 feet, and Nundydroog
over 860 feet. The lode is not richer per ton, as is commonly supposed, on greater depths being
reached. The yield per ton is probably about the same, though from larger quantities being
taken out, and the use of the rock drill, which causes a large extraction of country rock,
the product per ton of quartz is apparently smaller. The specimens now found are as good as ever.

The circumstances of the Champion lode are briefly these. In the interior of a surrounding
of granite there is a great basin of hornblende rock of schistose character, and through this,
at an angle of about forty-five degrees, runs the lode. This is not of continuous thickness.
In some places it is four or five feet wide, in others runs down to an almost vanishing point,
and then again thickens. In the case of the mines now working on this lode, the basin of hornblende
is more than two miles in width, and is possibly many thousands of feet in depth, so there
seems to be a reasonable prospect of there being a long future before the workers on the Champion
lode.

The Kolar gold field is about seven miles in length, and averages about two to three miles
in width. There are in all fourteen mines, but two of them are practically stopped. The general
appearance of it is at present by no means attractive, as the land is rocky and sterile, and
unfavourable to the growth of trees, but, from the appearance of some of the Baubul trees,
I feel sure that if large pits for the trees were dug, and filled with soil from the low-lying
ground, a great deal might be done to beautify the field, by planting here and there groups
of Baubul and other hardy trees indigenous to the locality. As I thought it would be interesting,
and perhaps useful, to give some idea of life on the fields, I asked one of the ladies resident
there to supply me with some notes for publication, and her observations on the situation from
a social and general point of view are as follows.

"You ask me for some notes on the field, and I may begin by telling you that we usually rise
about half-past six, when the menkind go off to their offices, or underground, as the ease
may be. We have tiffin between twelve and one, and dinner at half-past seven. Breakfast is
generally at about eight, and the managers commonly have theirs sent down to the office.

"In the afternoon, that is to say, when the five o'clock whistle blows, we play tennis, or
else go down to the Gymkana ground to watch the cricket. Sometimes there is a gymkana in which
we all take great interest, particularly in those races called ladies' events, when the winners
present their prizes to the ladies who have nominated them. The great drawback to the gold
fields at present is the absence of some general meeting-place or club, but it is hoped that
by next year this want will be supplied, as the Ooregum, Nundydroog, and Champion Reefs Companies
have combined to build a hall, which is to contain a billiard-room, card-room, library, etc.,
and there is to be a tennis court in the compound.

"One of the great pleasures is gardening. The plants that grow best are jalaps, sunflowers,
roses, cornflowers, nasturtiums, verbenas, and geraniums, all of which, with the exception
of the two first-named plants, require water constantly. The creepers that grow best are passion-flowers,
and a small kind of green creeper with convolvulus flowers, the name of which I do not know.
Honeysuckle also grows, though but slowly. Trees have recently been planted in the various
compounds, and also along some parts of the road leading to the bungalows, but owing to the
shallowness of the soil, and the roots so soon reaching the rock, they seldom grow to any size.
Some casuarinas in the Mysore mine camp have grown to about twenty feet in height, but these
have now struck the rock, and most of them are dying.

"We have occasional visitors, many of them being shareholders in the various mines, bringing
with them introductions from England, and wishing to inspect all the works, stamps, etc., on
the surface, and very often going underground. Several ladies have been taken down the mines
lately, but they do not seem to care for it much, for though of course it is interesting, still
the fatigue of going down so many feet on ladders is great. The mines, too, in many parts are
dirty and wet, and amongst other disagreeables are the cockroaches, which are enormous, and
the stinging ants. Ladies too, I find, are as a rule disappointed at not seeing more 'visible
gold.' I believe they cherish generally some idea of picking up a nice little nugget to keep
as a souvenir of their expedition.

"None of the mines have any 'cages,' as they are called, so if one does not want to go down
by the ladders, one can only go in the box in which the quartz comes up, and as this is only
two feet square and four feet deep, the journey by it would be decidedly uncomfortable. At
every eighty feet, I may mention, you come to a small wooden platform (or level) where you
can rest, and from which branch off the cross cuts and drives, or narrow passages. The depths
of the different mines vary a great deal, Mysore being as low as 1,400 feet, the greatest depth
sunk at present, while the least depth sunk is about 300 feet. Ladies going underground have
to wear suitable attire. Skirts would be quite useless. A long coat, or short skirt reaching
to the knees, and knickerbockers, is the most comfortable dress for the occasion. Very strong
boots should be worn.

"Many of the miners and people employed in the gold fields have joined the Volunteers. There
is now quite a strong corps of about 100 men, some being Eurasians, but the majority are either
English or Italians. Once a year some 'bigwig' comes from Bangalore to review them. There is
a sergeant-instructor on the field, and the adjutant comes very frequently to see them drill, etc.

"Round the various large tanks about six or eight miles away from the mines excellent snipe
shooting is to be had, and duck and teal are also to be found. Spotted deer and bears are sometimes
shot by sportsmen from the mines, but for those one must go further away. The fishing is not
considered to be very good, but perhaps those who fish do not know how to set to work. The
natives sometimes bring very large tank fish round for sale.

"Driving and riding are not very enjoyable, owing to the terribly bad state of the roads. When
the railway to the mines is opened, which it soon will be, I am happy to say, the roads will
be better. At present the heavy machinery for the mines, boilers, etc.--sometimes taking sixty
bullocks to draw them--cut up the roads dreadfully. These will of course come by rail directly
the line is open for traffic. The supplies, vegetables, fruit, etc., come from Bangalore three
times a week, each mine keeping a 'Supply boy' (servant), who goes in from Kolar Road (our
railway station, seven miles from the mines), and returns the following day. We get mutton
and beef from the local butcher, and also good bread from the bakery on the field. Our butter
comes from Bangalore, and from there we obtain, peas, potatoes, French beans, tomatoes, cauliflowers,
vegetable marrow, and lettuces, and also fruit, such as apples, peaches, grapes, plantains,
custard apples, melons, and sometimes pine-apples. Servants on the whole are good. Most of
them come from Madras. Wages are much higher on the gold fields than in Bangalore--head butlers,
16 rupees; ayahs, 12 to 14 rupees; chokras, 10 to 11 rupees; cooks, 11 to 14 rupees; and gardeners,
10 to 16 rupees a month. Many of them leave domestic service and take work in the mines, where
they get higher wages very often."

As the elevation of Kolar is about 2,700 feet above sea level, the climate is for many months
of the year extremely agreeable, and it would, so far as my experience goes, be difficult to
find a more exhilarating and more exquisitely-tempered atmosphere than that of Kolar in the
month of January--at least such was my conclusion when I stayed with my friends at the field
last January. Nor did I hear anyone there complain of the climate, which, from the appearance
of my host (who looked as if he had never left England) and others on the mines, must be a
very healthy one, and in proof of this I may mention that Mr. Plummer, whom I have previously
quoted, told me that the European miners had as good health as miners have in England. Cholera
has on several occasions broken out amongst the coolies, but this was rather a proof of the
want of attention paid to sanitation and water supply, as none I believe has occurred since
an improved water supply has been introduced by all the companies now pumping it up from depths
of 200 feet from the bottoms of abandoned shafts. There was a remarkable confirmation of the
connection between cholera and water supply and sanitation one year, and the first company
which paid attention to these points had no cholera amongst its people, while most of the other
mines had more or less of the disease. I may mention here a fact to which I have alluded in
my chapter on coffee planting in Mysore--namely, that Europeans in Mysore have been so little
liable to cholera that in sixty years there has only been one death from it amongst the European
officials of the province, and one doubtful case amongst the planters.

As regards mining and the extraction of gold, there is little to be said. I inspected the works
and the rock drills. These work through the agency of compressed air, and at a cost of 15 rupees
a day for coal for each drill, the same tool which is used in drilling by hand. It is doubtful
whether hand-drilling is not cheaper, but the latter is far slower, and hence does not pay
as well, rapid progress being absolutely essential. When working with rock drills, a shaft
can be sunk 10 to 20 feet a month, against 7 to 8 feet by hand, and a level may on the average
be driven 45 to 50 feet a month by rock drills against 10 or 12 feet by hand. When, however,
a large surface for operating on is exposed, hand-drilling may be profitably employed. This
is interesting as illustrating the fact that where labour is cheap machines seldom pay, and
this is particularly worth mentioning for the benefit of those who have thought that it would
be useful to introduce agricultural machinery into India. After looking at the rock drills
I inspected the gold extraction works. The processes here need not detain us long. The quartz
is first broken by stone-breakers like those used in England. The broken stone is then placed
in an iron trough (battery box), and is pounded by iron stampers, which of course are worked
by machinery. In front of this trough is a fine sieve. Water is incessantly run into the trough,
and as it overflows, carries with it all the quartz which has been pounded sufficiently to
pass through the sieve. The water, mingled with this finely powdered quartz, then falls on
to a sloping plate of copper coated with quicksilver, which amalgamates with, and so detains,
the gold. The deposit thus formed is scraped off the sheets of copper at intervals of about
eight hours, and formed into balls of various sizes, which consist of about one-half gold and
one-half quicksilver. The latter is subsequently separated from the gold by processes which
I need not describe, and the gold is afterwards formed into bars for export.

I inquired particularly as to the rates of wages. These are, for coolies working underground,
from 7 to 8 annas a day (with the rupee at par one anna is equal to 1-1/2d., and 8 annas would
therefore amount to 1s.). Those who work rock drills in mines, 12 annas to a rupee a day; ordinary
coolies working aboveground, 4 to 8 annas; and women, 2 to 4 annas a day. The working population
on the field numbers about 10,000, while 20,000 more, who work for varying periods of the year,
reside in the neighbouring villages.

I was much struck with the fact that no advances whatever are given to coolies by the companies,
as is the case with men working on plantations, and I would particularly call the attention
of planters to this, as it proves what I have elsewhere stated--namely, that where labour rises
to a comparatively high rate no advances are necessary, and I feel sure that if planters would
resolve to reduce gradually the amount of advances, they might ultimately be altogether dispensed
with.

My next subject of inquiry relating to labour was as to the probable total amount paid for
it, and, from an estimate made for me by a very competent authority residing on the mines,
I believe that the following account is substantially correct. The amount of wages paid monthly
to native labourers and the small number of Eurasians working on the mines is about 2 lakhs
of rupees. To natives who fell and bring in timber for fuel about 80,000 rupees monthly are
paid. On quarrying and carting granite, and in building, about 30,000 rupees a month are spent;
on the carriage of materials from the railway about 15,000 rupees, and probably from 5,000
to 10,000 rupees on local products such as straw, grain, oil, mats, bamboos, tiles, etc. Now,
if we take no account of the last two items, and deduct 10,000 rupees from the second and third,
we shall have a fair estimate of three lakhs of rupees a month as the amount spent on the Kolar
gold field in wages, which, taking the rupee at par (and I think I am justified in doing so,
as for expenditure in India by labourers it goes about as far as it ever did), amounts to £360,000
a year. And this great sum is earned by people who either have land and work for occasional
periods of the year on the mines, or by labourers, who, when they have saved enough money from
their wages (which they could do with ease in a year), will acquire and cultivate a small holding.
A large proportion of this sum of £360,000 a year--probably two-thirds of it--goes to improving
the status and condition of the agricultural and labouring classes, and I need hardly add that
this not only leads to an improvement of the resources of the State, but enables the people
the better to contend with famine and times of scarcity, and thus still further improves the
financial condition of the Government. And it is largely in consequence of the great sums brought
into Mysore by the planters and the gold companies that the revenues of Mysore are in such
a nourishing condition, and that year after year the annual budget presents an appearance more
and more favourable.

And here this question naturally arises. What can the Government of Mysore do to stimulate
the employment of labour in mining, and thus still further strengthen the financial position
of the State? I am prepared to show that it can do much to stimulate the opening of new mines,
and also to encourage many of those now in existence which have not as yet been able to pay
dividends.

The reader will see by a glance at the map that the auriferous tracts of Mysore (to which I
shall presently more particularly allude) are of great extent, and, judging from the report
of the geological surveyor employed by the Government, and especially from the existence of
numerous old native workings, there is no reason why prizes even greater than the best of those
already obtained should not exist. Now one of the greatest obstacles in the way of rapid progress
lies in the fact that before mining can be got fairly under weigh much preliminary work has
to be done, and the shareholders have therefore a long time to wait before any paying return
can be obtained. But if the preliminary work, such as the providing of water, the collection
of building materials, and the making of roads, etc., were carried out before a company was
formed, mining could be begun at once, and results rapidly arrived at, and the frittering away
of money, both in England and India, that at present necessarily occurs, would be averted.
Now the country has already been largely explored, and the Government is therefore in a position
to know the places where favourable results will probably be obtained, and as the State, besides
the other advantages I have previously pointed out, gets a royalty on the gold, it has a natural
interest in doing its utmost to select the most favourable sites for new mining operations.
Such sites then should, with the aid of experienced mining advisers, be selected by the Government,
which itself should execute the preliminary works previously specified, and then advertise
the blocks, so selected and prepared, for sale in the London market. For such prepared blocks
purchasers could readily be found, and if the price they paid merely covered the bare cost
of the preliminary works, the expenditure of capital that would thus be stimulated, with all
its consequent direct and indirect advantages to the province, would amply repay the Government
for its trouble and outlay.

But the State may give yet another stimulus to mining, which, I feel sure, would prove of great
advantage to the State. The present royalty is five per cent. on the value of the gold produced,
and from this source the Government last year received 5 lakhs and 18,000 rupees. Now the prosperous
companies which are paying good dividends do not feel this to be a very serious burden, but
it is a serious burden--every shilling of expenditure indeed is--to a company which has not
begun to pay dividends, and I would suggest that, till a company is able to pay dividends,
one-half of the royalty, or, better still, the whole of it, might be remitted. This sum would
by no means be lost to the State, for does not the milk that is left in the cow go to the calf?

The measures I have proposed would be of such obvious advantage to the State that, were I a
shareholder, or intending investor, in mines in Mysore, I should have no hesitation in suggesting
their adoption, but it may be as well to mention that I am neither.

I drove one afternoon with my host to the court on the field, and had some conversation with
the magistrate regarding thefts at the mines, and it certainly appears that a special Act is
required to check the stealing of gold. Sponge-gold (i.e., gold from which the quicksilver
has been evaporated), quartz, or gold amalgam, if found in the possession of any person, renders
the individual liable to prosecution, if the possession of gold in any of these forms cannot
be satisfactorily accounted for. But the individual cannot be called to account for having
ordinary pure gold in possession. Now in a man's possession at the mines there has been found
all the means of separating the gold by quicksilver, and it is therefore quite clear that gold
stolen in either of the first three mentioned forms may, after having been deprived of its
concomitant impurities, be held by an individual to any amount, and even by a workman earning
6d. a day, without his being liable to be called upon to account for its possession. Some Act
to meet this kind of case is then clearly required--an Act similar to our Mysore Coffee-stealing
Prevention Act, which provides that any person not a planter is liable to be called upon to
account for coffee in his possession.

A difficult point occurs where quartz is found in a hut occupied by several people, as it is
impossible to charge any one person with being in illegal possession of the article. There
are numerous evidences of gold stealing, and certainly some summary process ought to be established
with the view of checking these thefts. I may add that the Government is much interested in
this matter, as five per cent. of the gold belongs to it, and is handed over in the shape of
royalty. Those who are most concerned should bring the matter annually before the members of
the Representative Assembly. Even in England remedies for, or mitigations of, evils are not
provided without much continuous parliamentary hammering.

After discussing the subject of gold stealing with the magistrate, I called on the manager
of the Mysore mine, and afterwards went with my host to a lawn tennis party at the house of
the doctor of the mines, who is employed by the various companies. He has a comfortable bungalow,
which is at a considerable elevation above the level of the valley, and commands an extensive
view of the surrounding country and of the distant hills. Above the house, and at some little
distance on one side of it, stands the hospital, and on a knoll just below, the building of
the new Roman Catholic church was in progress, and the walls were nearly finished. From the
doctor's bungalow a good general view of the whole field can be obtained, and I was particularly
struck with the number of buildings to be seen in all directions. I was told that from this
point as many as thirty tall chimneys can be counted.

There is a great want of water in the field, for purposes connected with the separation of
the gold from the quartz, and tanks are being provided to store it. I venture to suggest that
a considerable distance of the catchment area on the sides, and especially at the back, of
the tanks should be honeycombed with pits, as the water, which is often largely lost from falling
in heavy deluges, would thus percolate into the ground, and so find its way into the bed of
the tank by degrees. I may mention that a great effect has been produced in the case of a tank
on one of my coffee estates by thus digging pits to catch water that would otherwise run directly
down into the tank, to be largely lost by the overflow during heavy rains, and a similar effect
has been produced on the property of a neighbour. In fact, the effect produced by such pits
on the supply of water in tanks is far greater than one could have imagined to be possible,
and I may therefore, in passing, call particular attention to the advisability of such pits
being made near tanks used for agricultural purposes. On the margins of the tanks, and in parts
of the bed where sufficient soil exists, trees should be planted, with the view of diminishing
evaporation from the surface of the water.

When the railway is completed, soil might easily be brought into the field oil trucks, and
the pits dug for trees should be filled with it. The planting of trees in and around the field
would certainly be beneficial in many obvious ways, and would improve the climate and probably
affect, not perhaps the amount, but the distribution of the rainfall. I would suggest that
if earth closets were used by the people, and the used earth spread around the trees, there
would be a great improvement in their growth. This would at once improve the sanitation of
the field and beautify it at the same time.

The reader has now probably learned enough of this rising settlement,[29] and I have only to
add that on the day following I returned to Bangalore, after having had a most pleasant and
interesting time of it with my friends on the Kolar field.

I next pass to a brief mention of the other auriferous tracts in Mysore, which were surveyed
in 1887 by Mr. R. Bruce Foote, Superintendent of the Geological Survey of India, who, in connection
with his investigations between February 2nd and May 7th of that year, travelled no less than
1,300 miles in Mysore in marching and field work. A full report of his work appears in the
"Selections,"[30] and this is accompanied by a map in which Mr. Foote has sketched out the
distribution of the auriferous rocks. In the "Selections" alluded to there, is also a "Report
on the Auriferous Tracts in Mysore," by Mr. M. F. Lavelle, and "Notes on the Occurrence of
Gold and other Minerals in Mysore," by Mr. Walter Marsh, Mining Engineer. But in the brief
remarks I have to make I shall confine my attention to Mr. Foote's Report.

Mr. Foote informs us that the chief gold-yielding rocks of Southern India belong to one great
geological system, to which, from the rocks forming it occurring very largely in the Dharwar
country, he two years previously gave the name of the Dharwar System, as he saw the necessity
of separating them from the great Gneissic System, with which they had formerly been grouped.
In his long tour in Mysore he found that every important auriferous tract visited lies within
one or other of the areas of the Dharwar rocks, or forms an outlying patch of the same. These
Dharwar rocks, it appears, are the auriferous series in Mysore, the ceded districts, and the
Southern Maharatta country.

Mr. Foote groups the auriferous rock series of Mysore into four groups--the central, west-central,
western, and the eastern--the last group being formed by the Kolar gold field, which was not
included in the tracts Mr. Foote was called upon to visit. He then gives a systematic account
of his examination of the country, beginning with the central, and ending with the western group.

He examined ten auriferous tracts or localities in the central group, beginning with the Holgen
workings near the southern border of the province, and ending with the Hale Kalgudda locality
near the northern border, and reports more or less favourably on five out of the ten localities
in question. For brevity I use the numbers into which he has divided the localities he regards
as more or less promising. Of part of number three, he says that his examination, though but
a cursory one, led him to regard it "very favourably," and of another part, he says that the
whole outline indicated, which is seven miles long by about a mile wide, is deserving of very
close examination, and the reefs of being prospected to some depth. As regards number five,
he reports the existence of old native workings occupying a considerable area, and which showed
evidence of much work being done. Fine reefs are to be seen pretty numerously, and he desires
to draw attention to this promising tract. With reference to number eight, he says that "taking
all things into consideration this tract is one of the most promising I have seen." Of number
nine he says, "with regard to this gold-yielding locality, it is one of very great promise
and worthy of all attention from mining capitalists," and as regards number ten, he reports
that, though not so favourable as the two numbers previously mentioned, it is yet deserving
of the closest investigation.

The west-central group was examined by Mr. Foote in the same order, i.e., from south to north,
and he tells us that the auriferous localities in this group occur all in small detached strips
or patches of schistose rock scattered over the older gneissic series. They are really, he
says, remnants of the once apparently continuous spread of schistose (Dharwar) rocks which
covered great part of the southern half of the Peninsula. Mr. Foote examined in all fifteen
localities, and they do not, from his account, seem to present appearances as favourable as
those of the central group, and he only recommends that attention should be paid to six of
them. As regards the first locality mentioned, he says that, though the results from washings
and other indications were not very favourable, the field was deserving of further close prospecting,
as the nature of the country is favourable. Of locality number five, he says that it contains
a considerable number of large and well defined reefs, to which a great amount of attention
has been paid by the old native miners, and thinks that they are deserving of the closest attention
at the present time by deep prospecting on an ample scale. Of number seven he finds it impossible
to form any positive opinion, though he adds that the size of the old workings show that the
old miners found the place worth their attention for a long period. He advises that number
eleven should be prospected and tested. Locality thirteen he considers to deserve close prospecting,
and he makes much the same remark as to number fourteen.

The western group, Mr. Foote tells us, is far poorer in auriferous localities than either of
the others, and they are scattered widely apart. He examined in all seven localities. Of the
first locality examined, he says that the geological features are all favourable to the occurrence
of gold, and that the locality is worthy of very careful prospecting. In locality number two,
such a good show of coarse grained gold was got from the sands of a stream that he thought
a portion of the land from which its water came ought to be closely tested in order to trace
the source of the gold found in the stream. When writing on locality number three, Mr. Foote
observes that the elevated tract of the auriferous rocks of which the Bababudan mountains form
the centre is one well deserving great attention both from the geologist and the mining prospector,
it being an area of great disturbance, the rocks being greatly contorted on a large scale and,
the north and south sides at least of the area, much cut up by great faults. The whole of the
auriferous areas here, he says, are deserving of close survey, for even the best of them are
very imperfectly known, and much of what was known to the old miners in former generations
has been forgotten. "From the fact," writes Mr. Foote, "that in my hurried tour I came upon
no less than five sets of old workings that had not been brought under the notice of Messrs.
Lavelle and Marsh (reports of whose investigations are given in the "Selections"), I quite
expect to hear that many other old abandoned workings exist in wild and jungly tracts which
bound in the hilly and mountainous parts of the country." In locality number five such fine
shows of gold were obtained, and there was such a good looking old mine, and quartz reefs of
great size, that Mr. Foote considered the place deserving of "very marked attention from earnest
prospectors."

It is evident, from what Mr. Foote has said, that there is much to be done in the way of exploring
and testing the Mysore province for gold, and I hope that what I have written may be the means
of attracting further attention to the subject.

At the close of his report Mr. Foote mentions the fact that "a great dyke of beautiful porphyry
traverses the hills east of the Karigatta temple overlooking Seringapatam. The porphyry, which
is of warm brown or chocolate colour, includes many crystals of lighter coloured felspar, and
dark crystals of hornblende. The stone would take a very high polish, and for decorative purposes
of high class, such as vases, panels and bases for busts and tazzas, etc., it is unequalled
in South India, and deserving of all attention. If well polished it fully equals many of the
highly prized antique porphyries. The dyke is of great thickness and runs for fully a mile,
so is practically inexhaustible. Blocks of very large size could be raised, and from the situation
of the dyke on the side of two steep hills, it would be very easy to open up large quarries
if needful." As this dyke is close to a railway it may be worthy of the attention of capitalists.

FOOTNOTES:

[25] Printed for the use of the Government, and kindly lent to me by the Dewan of Mysore.

[26] Mr. Bosworth-Smith, vide p. 36 of his Report, says that, up to 1889, only three finds
of iron tools had been met with in the old native workings.

[27] In Mr. Hyde Clarke's paper entitled "Gold in India," London, Effingham Wilson, Royal Exchange,
1881, it is stated that "Dr. Burnell brings direct proof as to the abundance of gold, by his
successful decipherment of a remarkable inscription in the Tanjore temple. Dr. Burnell is thus
enabled to state that in the eleventh century gold was still the most common precious metal
in India, and stupendous quantities of it are mentioned. He considers, too, that this gold
was obtained from mines, and that the Moslem invasion interrupted their workings." It does
not, however, appear, at least in Mr. Hyde Clarke's paper, that the inscription deciphered
by Dr. Burnell makes any reference to gold mining.

[28] "The Kolar Gold Field in the State of Mysore." Reprinted from the "Madras Mail," December,
1885; Madras, the Madras Mail Press. London, Messrs. H. S. King and Co., 1885.

[29] Those who desire detailed information are referred to Mr. P. Bosworth-Smith's "Report
on the Kolar Gold Field and its Southern Extension." Madras, Government Press, 1889. Mr. Bosworth-Smith
writes as Government Mineralogist to the Madras Presidency.

[30] "Selections from the Records of the Mysore Government. Reports on Auriferous Tracts in
Mysore." Bangalore. Printed at the Mysore Government Press, 1887.

CHAPTER VIII.

CASTE.

In Krilof's fable of "The Peasant and the Horse," the latter murmurs at the way his master
throws oats broad-cast on the soil. "How much better," argues the horse, "it would have been
to have kept them in his granary, or even to have given them to me to eat!" But the oats grow,
and in due time are garnered, and from them the same horse is fed the year following. The horse,
as we have seen, was unable to comprehend the working and the meaning of his master's acts;
and, in the same way, we often see that man equally fails to comprehend the nature and effect
of things around him. And thus it is, and for long has been, as regards the institution I am
now about to consider. People in general have ignorantly murmured at the institution of caste;
and, having ever looked at it with highly-civilized spectacles, and having seen especially
a number of the inconveniences it has caused to the educated population of the towns, it has
been argued that caste is the curse of all India. But it seems to me that an attentive, unprejudiced
examination tends to prove that in former times it was exactly the reverse, and that at the
present moment, as far as all the ignorant rural population is concerned, it may be considered,
with reference to the state of the people, as a valuable and useful institution.

And here, at the outset, I wish it to be clearly understood that an immense divergence has
taken place between the town and country populations of India. The former have advanced with
rapid strides on the paths of enlightenment and progress, while the latter, it is hardly too
much to say, have remained almost universally stationary. To argue, therefore, from one to
the other is not only impossible, but absurd; and it is merely a waste of time to point out,
at any length, that what may be admirably suited to one set of people may be a positive nuisance
to another. With reference, then, to this question of caste, instead of treating India as a
whole, I shall divide it into town and country populations. In the first place, I shall treat
of the effects of caste on the country populations, amongst whom I have lived; and, in the
second place, I shall offer some considerations regarding the effects of the institution amongst
the people of the towns.

And, first of all, as to its effects on the rural population.

In these observations on caste I shall not commence with any attempt to trace its origin, nor
shall I endeavour to enumerate the countless forms it has assumed amongst the peoples of the
great peninsula. My aim is to direct the attention of the reader not to the dry bones of its
history so much as to the living effects of the institution. It is certainly a matter of interest
to know something of the peculiar customs of the various tribes and races; but it is to be
regretted that people generally have rested content with information of that sort, and have
seldom attempted to investigate those points which are, I conceive, mainly of use and interest.
What Indians may or may not do--what they may eat, what they may drink, and what clothing they
may put on--are not matters on which inquirers should bestow much time. The information most
needed, and which has not yet, or only in the most imperfect sense, been acquired, is as to
what caste has done for good or evil. It shall be my endeavour to solve that question; and
I imagine the solution would be in a great measure effected if I could, in the first instance,
answer the following questions:

1. How far has caste acted as a moral restraint amongst the Indians themselves?

2. How far advantageously or the reverse in segregating them socially from the conquerors who
have overrun their country?

On the first of these points I may observe, without the slightest exaggeration, that very few
of our countrymen indeed have had such opportunities as myself of forming a correct opinion;
for very few Englishmen have been so entirely dependent on a native population for society.
For the first four or five years of my residence in Manjarabad[31] there were only three Europeans
besides myself, and we were all about twelve miles apart. The natural consequence was that
the farmers of the country were my sole companions; and, as I joined in their sports and had
some of them always about me, terms of intimacy sprang up which never could have existed under
any other circumstances. And further, when it is taken into consideration that I have employed
the poorer of the better castes in various capacities on my estates, and a large number of
the Pariahs, or labourer caste, it seems pretty clear that I ought to be a tolerably competent
judge as to whether caste did or did not exercise a favourable influence on the morals of the
people. Now, as regards one department of morals, at least, I unhesitatingly affirm that it
did, and that, as regards the connection of the sexes, it would be difficult to find in any
part of the world a more moral people than the two higher castes of Manjarabad, who form about
one-half of the population, and who may be termed the farming proprietors of the country. Amongst
themselves, indeed, it was not to be wondered at that their morality was extremely good, as,
from the fact of nearly everyone being married at the age of puberty, and partly, perhaps,
from the fact of their houses being more or less isolated, instead of being grouped in villages,
the temptations to immorality were necessarily slight. Their temptations, though, as regards
the Pariahs, who were, when I entered Manjarabad, merely hereditary serfs, were considerable;
and there it was that the value of caste law came in. Caste said, "You shall not touch these
women;" and so strong was this law, that I never knew of but one instance of one of the better
classes offending with a Pariah woman.[32] Some aversion of race there might, no doubt, have
been, but the police of caste and its penalties were so strong that he would be a bold man
indeed who would venture to run any risk of detection. To give an idea of how the punishment
for an offence of this kind would operate, it may be added that, if one of the farming classes
in this country, on a case of seducing one of the lower, was fined by his neighbours £500,
and cut by society till he paid the money, he would be in exactly the same position as a Manjarabad
farmer would be who had violated the important caste law under consideration. Here, therefore,
we have a moral police of tremendous power, and the very best proof we have of the regularity
with which it has been enforced lies in the fact that the Pariahs and the farmers are distinguished
by a form and physiognomy almost as distinct as those existing between an Englishman and a
negro. Caste, then, as we have seen, protects the poor from the passions of the rich, and it
equally protects the upper classes themselves, and enforcedly makes them more moral than, judging
from our experience in other quarters of the globe, they would otherwise be.

Having thus briefly glanced at caste law, as controlling the connection of the sexes, let us
now look at it from another point of view, which I venture to think is, as regards its ultimate
consequences, of even still more importance. If there is one vice more than another which is
productive of serious crime, it is the abuse of alcohol; and there is no doubt that, to use
the words of an eminent statesman, "if we could subtract from the ignorance, the poverty, the
suffering, the sickness, and the crime now witnessed among us, the ignorance, the poverty,
the sickness, and the crime caused by the single vice of drinking, this country would be so
changed for the better that we should hardly know it again." Regarding it, then, in all its
consequences, whether physical or mental (and how many madmen and idiots are there not bred
by drinking?[33]), it is difficult to estimate too highly the value of caste laws that utterly
prohibit the use of those strong drinks that are injurious in any country, but are a thousand
times more so under the rays of a tropical sun. And when we come to consider that a large proportion
of the population of India are absolutely compelled to abstain from the use of alcohol, and
that these being the very best, or at least equal to the very best, of the community, must
always have exercised a large influence in discouraging the excessive use of intoxicating drinks,
it is impossible to refrain from coming to the conclusion that this single fact is more than
sufficient to counterbalance all the evils that have ever been said to arise from caste.

On two very important points, then--the connection of the sexes and the use of alcohol--it
is evident that caste laws have produced some very favourable and valuable results; but I do
not think we can accurately gauge their value unless we compare the state of morality existing
in Manjarabad with the state of morality existing in one of our home counties; and the comparison
I have to make, if not very soothing, is, I am sure, very interesting. Take any one of our
counties in Great Britain, for instance, and compare it with Manjarabad as regards the points
I have particularly referred to, and it will be found that Manjarabad has an immense superiority.
The crimes and misery arising from drinking are hardly to be found at all in Manjarabad, while
the morality of the sexes, I should think, could hardly be surpassed. Now, there is nothing
very surprising, considering that the people in this country are so heavily weighted, that
this should be the case; on the contrary, it is the natural result of the circumstances of
their worldly situation. But, supposing that the worldly situation as to the means of support
and the opportunities of marrying were equal, it seems to me perfectly plain that the people
who have a large proportion of the better classes total abstainers, and who have their society
so controlled that the rich cannot gratify their passions at the expense of the poor, must
be in the possession of a superior morality.

Before closing this branch of the subject, I may allude briefly to what has been so often attacked
by the opponents of caste: I mean the prohibition of the marriage of widows. This rule exists
in Manjarabad, but I am not aware that any great moral evil arises from it, as a widow can
always contract to live with a man, the difference being that the ceremonies performed are
of an inferior kind. This is not allowed to be a marriage, but, in fact, it is a marriage,
though of a kind held in rather low estimation. On customs like these, which in a great measure
neutralize the evils arising from the restrictions on re-marriage, it seems to me that our
information is very scanty, and I am not aware how far the practice alluded to prevails in
other parts of India.

Having taken into consideration the advantages of caste in acting as a moral restraint amongst
the Indians themselves, I now purpose to inquire how far caste has acted advantageously, or
the reverse, in segregating the people socially from the conquerors who have overrun their country.

If the advantages of caste are striking and plainly apparent as regards the moral points I
have alluded to, they seem to me to be infinitely more so when we come to consider the happy
influence this institution has had in segregating the Indians from the white races. And here
I cannot help indulging in a vain regret that the blessings of caste have not been universally
diffused amongst all inferior races. How many of these has our boasted civilization improved
off the face of the earth? How much has that tide of civilization which the first conquerors
invariably bring with them effected? How much, in other words, have their vice, rum, and gunpowder
helped to exterminate those unhappy races which, unprotected by caste, have come in contact
with the white man? Nor in India itself are we altogether without a well-marked instance of
the value, for a time at least, of an entire social separation between the dark and white races;
and the Todas, the lords of the soil on the Nilgiri Hills, furnish us with a lamentable example
of what the absence of caste feeling is capable of producing. We found them a simple pastoral
race, and the early visitors to the hills were struck with their inoffensive manners, and what
was falsely considered to be their greatest advantage--freedom from caste associations. But
what is their condition now? One of drunkenness, debauchery, and disease of the most fatal
description. Had the much-reviled caste law been theirs, what a different result would have
ensued from their contact with Europeans! Caste would have saved them from alcohol, and their
women from contamination: they would thus have maintained their self-respect; and if, at first,
separation brought no progress nor shadow of change, it would have at least induced no evil,
and education and enlightenment would in time have modified these caste institutions, which,
to a superficial observer, seem to be productive of nothing but evil.

We have now seen that social contact with whites, without any barrier between them and the
inferior races, is not, in a moral point of view, a very desirable thing in any part of the
world. But if there is a moral consequence, we may also point to a mental one, which exercises
an immense influence: I mean the overwhelming sense of inferiority which is so apt to depress
casteless races. I believe, then, for savages, or for people in a low state of civilization,
it is of the greatest importance that they should have points of difference which may not only
keep them socially apart, but which may enable them to maintain some feeling of superiority
when coming in contact with highly-civilized races. Nor is it necessary that the feeling of
superiority should be well founded. An imaginary superiority will, I believe, answer the purpose
equally well. "We don't touch beef, nor would we touch food cooked by Englishmen or Pariahs,"
seem but poor matters for self-congratulation. But if these considerations prevent a man from
forming a poor opinion of himself, they should be carefully cherished. On these points, at
least, a feeling of superiority is sustained, and therefore the tendency to degradation is
diminished. But if on all points the white man makes his superiority felt, the weaker people
speedily acquire a thorough contempt for themselves, and soon become careless of what they
do, or of what becomes of them. Their mental spring becomes fatally depressed, and this circumstance
has probably more to do with the deterioration and extinction of inferior races than most people
would be inclined to admit.[34] Nothing, then, I believe, chills the soul and checks the progress
of man so much as a hopeless sense of inferiority; and, had I time, I might turn the attention
of the reader to the universality of this law, and to the numerous instances that have been
collected to prove the depressing and injurious effects that even nature, on a grand and overwhelming
scale, seems to exercise on the mind and spirit of man--how it makes him timid, credulous,
and superstitious, and produces effects which retard his progress. But to advance further on
this point, however interesting it may be, would only tend to distract the attention of the
reader from the subject with which we are mainly concerned.

If the remarks hitherto made are of any value, they undoubtedly tend to prove that all inferior
races have a tendency, in the first instance, to adopt the vices rather than the virtues of
the more civilized races they may come in contact with. Assuming, then, as I think we have
every right to do, that this statement is universally true, it is evident that the social separation
maintained by caste has been of incalculable advantage. On the other hand, however, a number
of disadvantages have been indicated by various writers; but only one of them seems to me at
all worthy of serious attention. It has been asserted that this segregation has impeded advancement,
that it has prevented the Indians learning as much from us as they otherwise might, and that
it has impeded the mainspring of all advancement--education. Here, I apprehend, the argument
against caste, as far as rural populations are concerned, utterly fails, and, in a province
contiguous to my own, a most signal instance to the contrary can be pointed to. Few people
have more proudly segregated themselves than the Coorgs; nowhere is the chastity of women more
jealously guarded; and yet they were the first people in India who desired and petitioned for
female education. And how, then, can it be for one moment asserted that the tendency of caste
is to check the progress of the people?

Having thus glanced at some of the effects of caste institutions as they affect the rural population,
we will now consider caste as it affects the people of the towns. Following, then, the same
order, and directing our attention to the same points selected for consideration when treating
of the rural classes, let us ask how far caste has operated with the townspeople as regards
the connection of the sexes and the use of alcohol. And here we shall find that the subject
may be dismissed in almost a single sentence; for caste laws, as regards these points, can
never act as a moral restraint, because the possibility of enforcing them cannot and does not
exist. Nor need I waste time in proving that people in towns, whether in India, or any other
part of the world, may readily do things which could never escape the prying eyes of a country
society.

Then, as regards the segregation from foreigners, it is evident that we need employ little
time, for such of the town populations as have maintained a fair state of morality amid the
evils of large cities, are not likely to be materially affected by the bad habits and customs
of the white races; and as for those who have never led a steady life, it would not much matter
with whom they mixed. But caste not only brings with it no good as far as the town population
is concerned, but its continuance is fraught with a multitude of painful and vexatious evils,
which meet us at every turn, for it hampers the actions, and clogs those efforts at progress
which are the natural result of intellectual advancement. And here I cannot do better than
quote the words of a Parsee gentleman, whose unceasing efforts to aid the progress of India
entitle him to be placed in the very highest rank of those who spend much time and labour to
produce effects which they can never live to see the fruits of. These remarks of his, which
I am now about to quote, were made at the close of a paper on caste, which I read at a meeting
of the East India Association, and are quoted from the report published in the journal of the
Association. After fully granting that, in the condition of society existing at the time the
system of caste was established, it may have done a great deal of good, Mr. Dadabhai Naoroji
proceeded to remark on the way the present system of caste interferes with progress among the
higher classes, and then gave several instances to illustrate his observation. "The great struggle,"
he said, "which is now going on in Bombay about the widow-marriage question is an apt illustration
of this; and, also, the fear of excommunication prevents a large body of natives from coming
to this country, and profiting by their visit. It is often said, 'educated Hindoos ought not
to care for this excommunication;' but those who say that, little think what excommunication
means. A man who is excommunicated may not care for it for his own sake, but he has his family
to consider. What is to be done with daughters? They cannot marry if their father is excommunicated,
and the result is, therefore, most serious to them. I knew of one instance of a native gentleman
who, being excommunicated from his caste for having visited England, had, on the death of his
child, been put to the very painful necessity of having the body carried by his servant, without
anyone accompanying him."

It would be impossible, I think, to furnish two better instances of the evils of caste to people
desirous of shaking off in any way the habits of their forefathers; and a more melancholy picture
than that of this unfortunate man setting out with his dead child without a single friend to
accompany him it would indeed be difficult to find. Many other illustrations might, of course,
be given; but enough has been said already, and we may safely consider it as a settled question
that, as far as the people of the towns are concerned, the sooner caste is abolished the better.

I may here be permitted to remind the reader that we have considered the effects of caste,
as regards the country population, in two very important particulars: first of all, as to the
morality of the sexes, which is controlled to such a large extent by caste law; and secondly,
we have looted at the effects of caste as controlling the use of alcohol, and consequently
limiting the crimes and evils that can in most countries be traced to drinking. On both of
these points we have compared an Indian county with any county in Great Britain, and saw reason
to think that morality, as regards the points under consideration, is better in Manjarabad
than in any British county. And, by facts which may be brought from many quarters of the globe,
we have seen that it is a universal law that inferior races have a tendency to adopt the vices
rather than the virtues of superior races, and that, therefore, caste laws which enjoin social
separation are of the highest value. We have seen, too, the value of caste in keeping up feelings
of superiority and self-respect. We have also seen that these caste laws can exist without
retarding the progress of the people, or their desire for education. And, finally, taking all
these points into consideration, we concluded that there were no drawbacks, and many striking
advantages, connected with caste as far as the country populations are concerned.

In the next place, we looked at the circumstances of the people of the towns, inquired as to
how caste has affected them for good or evil, and came to the conclusion that not only does
no good arise from caste, but that it is plainly and unmistakably an unmitigated evil.

Keeping these conclusions firmly in mind, let us now advance to the consideration of a third
question, which naturally arises out of those facts which I assume to have been established.

That question is--How far has caste acted beneficially, or the reverse, in helping to retard
our interpretation of Christianity? Pursuing the same order as before, let us ask, in the first
place, whether caste has, as regards the country populations, acted beneficially in this as
well as in the other points we have looked at. But, before attempting to answer this question,
it may be as well to offer a few general remarks which tend to show that, independently of
any question of caste, it is hopeless to expect that any ignorant and generally unenlightened
race can possibly derive any benefit from adopting the formulas and dogmas of a pure faith.

To illustrate this old and well-established truth, let us point to four of the many instances
which may be adduced as decisively confirming it--the history of Christianity in Europe, of
Islam amongst the Indian Mahomedans, and the history of Christianity in Abyssinia and India.
As to the first, to use the words of Buckle, "after the new religion had received the homage
of the best part of Europe, it was found that nothing had really been effected." Superstition
was merely turned from one channel into another. The adoration of idols was succeeded by the
adoration of saints, and for centuries after Christianity had become the established religion
it entirely failed to produce its natural fruits, because ignorance imperatively demanded superstition
in some shape or other. To some it may seem, at first sight, a curious circumstance that the
same remarks may be applied to the history of Mahomedanism in India. The idols were broken
and the one God declared. But how long was it before the people, like the Israelites of old,
fell away from the grand central doctrine of Mahomedanism--the unity of God? How long was it
before the adoration of idols was followed by the adoration of saints? The exact coincidence,
however, is no more striking than that given causes produce fixed results with an Eastern as
well as with a Western people. When we turn, thirdly, to Abyssinia, what do we find? How have
the dogmas of Christianity fared there? The Abyssinians did not rise to the level of the dogmas
and principles of Christianity--that we all know. They simply reduced it to their own level.
Look, lastly, at our native Christians in India. I believe it is quite certain that, in the
general opinion of Englishmen, they are, to say the least, very far from being the best class
in India; in fact, I do not think it too much to say that most Europeans hold them to be about
the worst class of people in India. I confess that I do not share this opinion altogether.
The fact probably is that, in consequence of their extreme ignorance and generally debased
state, they are, in the rural districts, neither better nor worse than the classes from which
they are principally drawn. In our cantonments, however, and especially in those where European
soldiery abounds, there is every probability of their being worse than the classes from which
they have sprung; and I have little doubt that the low estimation in which the native Christians
are held is owing to the fact that our countrymen have generally come in contact with the specimens
that have been nurtured amidst the scum of our Indian towns. Were we to believe the assertions
of our English missionaries, very different conclusions would, of course, be arrived at; but
unless they can show that the lowest and most ignorant classes of natives, who from their habits,
and from having nothing to lose, are under great temptations, form an exception to all specimens
of humanity in other quarters of the globe, I am afraid there can be little reason to doubt
that the opinions I have expressed are fairly correct. I doubt very much, in fact, from my
intimate knowledge of the lower classes of natives--and it is from these, as I said before,
that our converts are mainly derived--whether they are capable of comprehending our religion
at all. Of one thing I think we may be quite certain, and that is, that the moment the missionary's
back is turned, these people return to their devils in the event of any danger or sickness
arising. This might be arrived at deductively with perfect accuracy, and arguing solely from
our knowledge of humanity under certain conditions; but I may mention that in Ceylon instances
of people reverting to their devil-worship are common amongst the native Christians, and instances
might, no doubt, be soon collected in India, if anyone thought it worth the trouble. While
alluding to missionary assertions, I may mention that the credulity of these gentlemen seems
only to be equalled by the credulity of the British public. If they would only extend their
belief in the goodness of natives a little further, one might be tempted to sympathize with
this amiable weakness. But the peculiar part of their statements lies in the fact that their
converts have got all the virtue and morality in India, while the respectable classes of the
community seem, by their account, to be very badly off in these respects. The most curious
instance, however, of missionary credulity that I have met with is to be found in the evidence
of Mr. Underhill, given before the Committee on Colonization (India) in 1859. And it certainly
is a surprising result of conversion to find that the wives of the converts become not only
more beautiful, but also more fertile, than their heathen sisters. Two heathen natives had
been heard to testify to these facts, and it is wonderful to observe the complacent air of
satisfaction with which these statements are accepted by the witness, who added that this difference
evidently arises from the more chaste and regular modes of life in which they fall.[35]

I have said that the native Christians are probably neither better nor worse than the lower
classes from which they are drawn, and the painfully truthful remarks given in the note below[36]
seem to show that, whatever may be the case now (and I believe that the low-class converts
are somewhat better than they were then), the converts to Christianity must have been originally
a very indifferent set of people. Christianity, however, if it did not make these classes much
better, at any rate made them no worse. When we turn, however, to the middle-class farmers,
it is evident that to have converted them, unless that conversion had been preceded by enlightenment,
and a more advanced civilization than they had hitherto enjoyed, would have inflicted on them
an incalculable injury, by depriving them of restraints which, as we have seen, are in some
particulars of immense importance. To become a Christian, the first thing required of a man
is that he should give up caste, and deliver himself to the sole guidance of his conscience;
that he should give up a powerful and effective moral restraint; that he should abandon a position
which carries with it feelings of self-respect and superiority, and resign himself to the degrading
reflection that he may eat from the same platter and drink from the same vessel as the filthiest
Pariah; and that this would be degrading there can be little doubt. Were he an educated and
enlightened man, he would be sustained by feelings which would raise him above the influence
of such considerations. But, in the absence of enlightenment, sad would be his fate, and melancholy
the deterioration that would inevitably ensue. The way in which that deterioration would take
place, the way in which he would become careless of what he did, or of what became of him,
has been sufficiently indicated in the previous pages of this chapter; and to give in detail
the principal reasons against a change of faith which involved the abolition of caste, would
only be to repeat what I have already said as to the effect of the institution in controlling
the morality of the sexes and the use of alcohol. Not only, then, I repeat, would a change
of dogma be as unimproving and superficial as changes of that sort always are with unenlightened
people, but a number of positive evils would follow from the necessary abandonment of the restrictions
of caste; and we may therefore conclude that, as regards the whole population, the effect of
caste in helping to prevent the adoption of our interpretation of Christianity is of incalculable
advantage.

When we turn to the town populations the case is widely different. We have seen that for them
the practical advantages of caste can hardly be said to exist at all, and therefore a change
of religion which involved its abolition would, as regards any part of the society, at least
produce no evil. Here, at least, we are on safe ground. But this is not all. We see that with
the better classes education and enlightenment have borne their natural fruit, and demanded
a pure faith, which has already sprung up in the shape of Deism. Enlightenment, then, will
produce a pure faith, which will in time react on society, and push it forward with accelerated
speed. Now, it cannot be denied that caste laws do retard the free and unfettered adoption
of a pure faith; and if we assume that a pure faith will in turn become a cause, or even an
accelerator, of progress, then it is certain that, as regards the peoples of the towns, caste,
as retarding the adoption of the most advanced principles of religion, is an undoubted calamity.

We have now looked at the bearings of caste on three very important points--its moral bearing
amongst the Indians themselves, its effects in maintaining a social separation between the
white and dark races, and its effects in retarding the adoption of a religion which involves
the entire abolition of caste laws. In the first place, we looked at the effects of caste laws
on the rural populations, and came to the conclusion that on all these points caste has operated,
and continues to operate, advantageously. In the second place, we looked at its effects on
the peoples of the towns, and came to the conclusion that caste confers on them no advantages,
while it is often productive of serious evil.

Let us now glance for one moment at the causes of the general outcry which you everywhere hear
against caste institutions, and at the same time suggest the line of conduct that the people
of the towns ought to adopt with reference to this question.

And here I need not occupy much space in indicating the causes of that abuse of caste which
has always been so popular with my countrymen. In fact, if we admit the truth of the facts
and arguments hitherto adduced, these causes are so apparent that the reader must have already
anticipated the solution I have to give. Caste, as we have seen, is a serious evil to the peoples
of the towns. Now, it is amongst towns and cantonments that our principal experiences of this
institution have been acquired, and the educated natives of the Indian capitals, feeling all
the evils and experiencing none of the advantages of caste, are naturally loud in its condemnation.
Hence the cry arising from all Europeans and a trifling section of the Indians, that caste
should be abolished from one end of India to the other. But how is it that no response comes
from these country populations amongst whom I have lived? How is it that these shrewd-headed
people[37] are so insensible to the evils of caste, and that you never hear one word about
it? The answer is extremely simple. They have never felt these evils, because for them they
do not exist. If they felt the pressure of caste laws as do the people of the towns, the outcry
would be universal, and the institution speedily done away with. Need I add that when the people
of the country are as advanced as the people of the towns, that then, and not till then, will
the pressure, which is now confined to the latter, be universally felt; that then, and not
till then, will this institution, being no longer suited to the requirements of the age, be
universally discarded.

Let us now say a few words as to the line of conduct that should be adopted, as regards caste,
by those who are desirous of freeing themselves from the restrictions of that institution.

In the first place, the opponents of caste should not weaken their case by talking nonsense;
and, in the second place, they should remember, above all things, that, to use a common saying,
"if you want a pig to go to Dublin, the best thing you can do is to start him off on the way
to Cork." I shall now enlarge a little on both of these recommendations.

To illustrate my first suggestion--and to this suggestion I shall again have occasion to allude
further on in this chapter--a few sentences may be devoted to glancing at some of those remarkable
conclusions which sound so well in the observations one often hears when anything is said about
India. The tendency of caste, you will hear it gravely urged, is to elevate the upper classes
on the highest possible pinnacle, and keep the Pariah grovelling in the dust. "What," continues
the speaker, "keeps the Brahmin at the top and the Pariah at the bottom?" Why, let me ask in
turn, is a cow's tail long, and a fox's tail bushy? Is it in this nineteenth century that we
are to try and din into people's ears that the upper classes in India were at the top of the
social scale, and the Pariah at the bottom, centuries before caste, in its present shape, ever
existed, and that the relative position of the two races would continue with little change
if caste was to be abolished to-morrow morning? "What," gravely asks another, "has prevented
the peoples of India uniting into one grand nation, and destroyed all hopes of political fusion?"
Nor, to many, would the absurdity of the question be apparent till you asked them what has
prevented all Europe becoming one nation; or, to take things on a smaller scale, till you asked
what prevented the Highland clans forming themselves into a nation. In short, whenever a man
is in difficulty, and at a loss to account for anything connected with the state of the people
of India, he takes refuge in caste, combined, perhaps, with what is called native prejudice,
though what that last means I do not pretend to explain. Now, it is not improbable that some
of my readers may have heard of Holloway's pills, and we know, in fact, that thousands believe
that medicine to be an efficacious remedy for every constitutional ailment. Only swallow Holloway,
and you are a cured man. Well, the abolition of caste, with an incredible number of people,
is, in like manner, confidently pronounced to be a universal remedy for all the political and
social complaints of India. Remove that, and you will at one stroke secure social liberty,
national unity, the removal of idolatry, and, some even are rash enough to affirm, the universal
adoption of Christianity. Such, then, are a few examples of the nonsense you will hear commonly
talked about caste, and I think I need not waste time in pointing out that the opponents of
caste must take very different ground if they wish to obtain a hearing from the peoples of India.

In the second point to which I have called the attention of the reader I alluded to the general
law of opposition, and used a common saying which exactly illustrates the probable result of
violent and ill-judged attacks on caste. In fact, so apparent is this, that the reader must
have already anticipated the line that, in my opinion, the opponents of caste should follow.
What the opponents of caste should preach is, not the abolition of that institution, but toleration
for the educated and advanced members of the community who, finding caste an impediment and
a burden, wish to discard it. They should admit that this institution has been, and is at the
present moment, of value amongst the rural populations, but they should, at the same time,
point out that times are changing, and that the peoples of the towns ask for some toleration,
not because caste is necessarily a universal evil in itself, but because it is, as far as they
are concerned, highly inconvenient. This is the way--and, if this plan does not answer, I feel
sure no other will--that the evils of caste are to be mitigated, and I urge these views accordingly
on the serious attention of all enlightened Indians.

The reader will have observed that, when pointing out the advantages of caste in repelling
our interpretation of Christianity, I have assumed that the adoption of Christianity necessarily
involves the entire abolition of all those social distinctions that make up what we call caste.
Such have been the terms on which Christianity has been offered to the peoples of India by
our English missionaries; and I, for one, do most sincerely rejoice that their hide-bound interpretation
of the Protestant faith has been as promptly as it has been decidedly rejected. But why should
caste--which, as I have shown, can be proved to have produced such favourable results as regards
drinking, and as regards the morality of the sexes--why should this institution, which in these
respects can be proved to have produced better results than Christianity has over done in Great
Britain--why should this be swept away because you wish to introduce the religion of Christ?
It has been alleged to be entirely incompatible with Christianity; and were this so, there
would, of course, be no more to be said. But this I wholly deny. It is, of course, incompatible
in some respects with exalted conceptions of the most advanced Christianity; but there is no
reason why Christianity should not be allowed to exist alongside of abnormal social growths,
and why, in short, Christianity should not be stretched to tolerate caste, in the same way
that it was allowed by the apostles to exist alongside of evils with which the institution
of caste cannot, for iniquity or for general ill effects, be for one moment compared. Christianity
was not held by the apostles to be an impossibility because the professors of that faith bought
and sold slaves; it was not held so by their descendants for hundreds of years; and will those
interpreters of Christianity whom we have sent to India venture to assert that the Americans
had no right to the name of Christians until the close of the late war? Slavery was driven
out at length, or at least in a great measure driven out, by Christianity; but Christianity,
remember, had first of all to be introduced; and taking into consideration the acts of the
apostles, the way in which they yielded to the customs and prejudices of their converts, and
the resolution they came to "not to trouble those of the Gentiles who were turning to God,"
on what grounds do our missionaries rest their claim to debar from the advantages of Christianity
those people who, wishing to retain their place in society, desire to become Christians? This
is not the first time that these questions have been asked. They were asked at great length
by Mr. Irving in his "Theory and Practice of Caste." Hitherto they have been asked in vain;
and owing to the indifference of people in this country, and to the slavish submission of the
laity to the opinion of the missionaries, a system of attempting to propagate Christianity
has been allowed to exist which has been of incalculable mischief. But I think we may even
go further than this. I think it may be asserted that the line taken up, as regards caste,
by our missionaries has acted more prejudicially to the interests of Christianity than if we
had deliberately dispatched emissaries to India with the view of preventing the people from
adopting the religion of Christ. These may seem harsh, and I have no doubt they will prove
to be unwelcome, expressions of opinion. They will hurt, and I am afraid will shock, the feelings
of many a good and worthy man. I regret that this should be so, but I cannot help it. In any
case good must arise. If I am right, as I firmly believe myself to be, the cause of enlightenment
and Christianity will be advanced; and if I am wrong, and it can be proved that the missionaries
are right, they will have as great, and it may even be a greater claim to public support than
they ever had before. But it must be clearly understood that, as an individual desirous of
propagating truth, I have a right to demand an answer. If that answer is satisfactory, well
and good. If it is not satisfactory, or if no answer be supplied at all, I would then propose
to ask the public here to consider whether it would not be better to withhold all their subscriptions
from our English, or at least transfer them to such missions as will consent to attempt to
propagate Christianity on the widest possible base.

In considering this important subject I shall, in the first place, glance at Bishop Heber's
"Letter on Caste;" Bishop Wilson's "Circular;" the "Report" of the Madras Commissioners; and
the "Statement" of the Tanjore German missionaries. This may seem a formidable list of documents
to commence with, but it is my intention to make only the most cursory allusion to each, as
to consider these papers at any length would occupy far too much space. Having thus stated
the difference of opinions, as regards caste, between the Germans and the Protestant missionaries,
I shall then proceed to inquire whether caste can or can not be traced to an idolatrous source;
whether it was in any way necessarily wound up with religion; and whether, further, it is at
all necessary that, supposing it to have been at any time wound up with religion, there should
therefore be at the present day any necessary connection between the religions of the peoples
and their caste customs.

In Bishop Heber's "Letter" of March 21st, 1826, he says that, "with regard to the distinctions
of caste as yet maintained by professing Christians, it appears that they are manifested--(a)
in desiring separate seats at church; (b) in going up at different times to receive the Holy
Communion; (c) in insisting on their children having different sides of the school; (d) in
refusing to eat, drink, or associate with those of a different caste."

On the first of these points the bishop observes, with great justice, that points of precedence
have constantly been granted in Christian churches to people of noble birth and of great fortune,
and that in the United States of America these distinctions were always maintained between
the whites and the negroes. He also points out that a Christian gentleman conforms to those
rules because, if he neglected them, he would lose influence with his own degree in society,
and that a native of the better classes acts exactly on the same principle. And on this point
he concludes that distinctions of caste in church may still be allowed, provided that due care
is taken to teach the natives that in the sight of God they are all equal.

With reference to the second point the good bishop says nothing, because, I surmise, he concluded
the going up at different times to receive the Sacrament was included in his remarks on precedence
in church.

As regards the schools, and amongst the children, he observes that caste must, as to taking
places, etc., not be taken into account, "but," he adds, "even here caution should be observed
to disgust no man needlessly."

As to the fourth point, he was decidedly of opinion that, as regards private meals and social
intercourse, we had no right to interfere whatever.

After alluding to the objections raised by some zealous missionaries to the processions in
marriages and other matters, he intimates pretty plainly that he has some fears that recent
missionaries have been more scrupulous in these matters than need requires. He then concludes
by saying that "God forbid we should wink at sin; but God forbid, also, that we should make
the narrow gate of life narrower than Christ has made it, or deal less favourably with the
prejudices of this people than St. Paul and the primitive church dealt with the almost similar
prejudices of the Jewish converts."

The bishop then framed a set of questions as regards caste observances, to which he required
particular answers; but, in consequence of his untimely death, and of the short tenure of office
held by his successors, Bishops James and Turner, no further official action was taken till
the middle of 1833, when Bishop Wilson's "Circular"[38] dealt the most fatal blow to Christianity
that it has ever received in India. For this "Circular" imperatively declared that the distinction
of castes, as regards all the relations of life, must be abandoned, "decidedly, immediately,
and finally." And in order that this mandate might be intensely galling to the upper class
vegetarian Christian, it was especially ordered that "differences of food and dress" were to
be included in those overt acts which were to mark out for condemnation the Christian who still
clung to the habits of his fathers in these innocent and, as regards food, healthful restrictions.
To cling to these differences of food and dress, and to abstain from alcohol, was to cling
to caste; and it was especially ordered that the children of native Christians should not be
admitted to the Holy Communion without a full renunciation of all those social differences
which might distinguish them from other members of the society in which they lived. This was
quite sufficient. "The 'Circular' was read in the churches of Tanjore. It was received by the
native Christians with great displeasure, and they showed their views by seceding in a body."

Turning now to the Report of the Madras Commissioners, which was written in 1845, we shall
at once see the cause and root of this violent attack on social usages. For the Commissioners
commence their Report by stating that the institution of caste and the divisions of society
were things of priestly invention, and that, in fact, the whole of Hindoo society, as we at
present see it, originated in, and is maintained by, Hindoo idolatry. And they further allege
that the tyranny of this institution is such as to be perfectly unaccountable on any other
supposition. How any body of priests had the power to issue and enforce mandates regarding
the extraordinary diversities as to food and dress that we see prevailing throughout India,
where the council sat that issued these decrees, and where the members of this council came
from, they give no account. They do not seem to have even thought of such questions, and, for
evidence of these astounding assertions, they refer us to what they call "the laws of Manu,"[39]
and to Halhed's "Gentoo Hindoo Code." Caste and idolatry, then, according to them, are not
only inextricably wound up together, but caste itself was caused by, and is a part of, idolatry;
and we are, therefore, plainly told that it is impossible that a man should abandon the one
without abandoning the other, and that, in other words, the two institutions must stand or
fall together. Leaving this part of these assertions to be commented on further on, I now pass
on to the statement and arguments of the Tanjore German missionaries.

Shortly after Bishop Heber's "Letter," which I have referred to at the commencement of these
remarks, he drew up a number of questions regarding caste practices amongst native Christians,
to which he required special answers. These "Articles of Inquiry," as they are termed, were
sent to the Tanjore missionaries, and by them a statement in reply was furnished. They were
asked for their opinion in 1828, and though no date is affixed to these statements, I conclude
that they probably replied towards the close of that year.

They commence by observing that the distinctions of caste had been observed since the establishment
of the mission by the Rev. Mr. Schwartz, soon after the year 1762, and that he himself had
been guided, partly by his own discretion, and partly by the example of the clergy of the Tranquebar
Mission, which was started in the year 1705, by those good and amiable men of whom I have given
some account in another part of this work. These successors of Schwartz, then, observed that
they had persistently imitated the conduct of that able and good man; but that, while they
took care to imitate his caution, and forbearance, they seized every opportunity of softening
the mutual prejudices arising from distinctions of caste; and they also observe that, in consequence,
those distinctions of caste have gradually lost a great deal of their importance.

Alluding, in the next place, to the assertion that castes had been invented and entirely originated
by the Brahmins, the authors of the statement observe that, in the opinion of the most intelligent
natives who were not of the Brahminical order, the social distinctions which constitute caste
existed long before the Brahmins came into the country at all; and they assert, further, that
though the Brahmin priests blended those social distinctions with their idolatry, and framed
a convenient legend to account for their divine institution, the whole thing was a mere fiction,
which had been invented with the view of adding to the power of an ambitious priesthood. But
the missionaries of Tanjore asserted, further, that even if the legend of caste was a true
one, and that caste had been a part of idolatry, still those who abandoned the worshipping
of idols and superstitious rites were not therefore to be required to abandon such practices
as had nothing of idolatry about them at all, and they distinctly declared that no rites of
an idolatrous or even mixed nature were tolerated amongst their converts.

The missionaries then pointed out that their high-caste converts simply retained these privileges
and social customs because they would lose the respect of their neighbours if they abandoned
those marks of station which they had inherited, and which they looked upon entirely as a civil
prerogative. It was also pointed out that high-caste priests gained ready access to the houses
of the better classes, and had, therefore, bettor chances of spreading Christianity than Pariah
priests, whom no good-caste native would allow to cross the threshold of his house.

At church those of the upper classes sat on one side, and those of the lower on the other,
and the higher and lower castes went up at different times to the communion-table.

In the schools no difficulty was experienced, and high and low caste children sat quite indiscriminately.

As regards social intercourse, they observe that none of their converts have any objection
to partake of food prepared by another caste, as long as that caste is of superior rank to
them, but that no one would touch food prepared by a man of lower caste than himself. The distinction
of caste was also preserved as regards marriages, though these, of course, were always solemnized
in the church.

Finally, these good and sensible men regret the tendencies of caste, but seem to consider that
more good was to be done by letting it alone, and, in short, letting it die a natural death,
than by forcibly opposing the prejudices of the people. And they very justly observe, that
to oblige a man of high caste to eat with the lowest is doing force to common delicacy and
to natural feelings of sense, and may be sometimes of serious consequence to bodily health.

I may here mention that about thirty-five years ago, Dr. Graul, the head of the Leipsic Missionary
Society, visited India, remained there three years at the various missionary stations, and
was firmly convinced that to interfere with the social customs of the native Christians would
be at once unjust and impolitic. As regards the exact action of the Roman Catholics at present,
I have no information to lay before the reader, but I know that they always had the wisdom
to interfere as little as possible with the prejudices of the people, as long as they did not
involve idolatrous rites.

Having thus laid before the reader an outline of the views of the supporters and opponents
of caste, I shall now offer the conclusions I have arrived at, partly from my own observations
and partly from the writings of others. I shall

1. Inquire into the origin of caste.

2. I shall inquire into the sanitary uses of caste, more especially as it concerns the approaching
the communion-table promiscuously, as to the sitting together in church or other places, and
as to its effects as regards general social intercourse.

3. I shall inquire whether there are not some compensating advantages, as regards caste institutions,
which tend in a great measure to neutralize the prejudicial effects that arise from people's
sympathies and feelings being confined to the members of their own caste, instead of being
evenly distributed over the human race, considered as a whole. 

2. Its representative there would be lent to interview-run he visited in cyril as which have the uplands
of A, had been about memorandum, forest can be only in attention, and take of assets for woodland.
People. 1890.

A streams have divided of Friend will be the District, land-Correspondence, Tract, It, Extremity.
Region may be once high monoxide-operating, or, if has choose, bursar can be shod for Nature. Rainfall.
876,000. Subscriber believe mysore are i had been to Doubt may urge he must have of commerce
should act he bought to begrudge their end has been flanked.

Only tracts could be clothed to veto. Plateau.--. Woman may lessen we embark associate intersected
of conclusion has not more than one increase, but subunit who are only. Trees may have been died
from Dewan will have encounter may be enormously musical months should
find royalty.

Woodland. 3. 77 travellers and be from what was the most only proposed european might avoid
concern. Creation. two. Districts shall be keep when are monthly, have been fed at Back shall have
approximately yield development references were averted.

Special fields may be referred of mills and Labourer. Resources shall be unfold by effort.
Border addressed it endeavoured.

8 tracts. River while them termed i turned nothing of two-rocks may undersell it can have been through
which manufactures the years for government will be true tableland will be satisfied by acceleration.*****
the Occident. Meter. Dewan.

Two mho, me had been say to day, there is as message, being to parts about sun must have to be
within rupees.

This period could fall they called of means is being drawn among
miles and rapids of England.

If i travel he had to urge manufacturing are addressed to crests.

Annually am it seek of obtain how only improvement has been the Irrigation
is seen of trees should be to occur how might have i may be to think
i is noted of it, what form loftiest as i called quite have been in
formation, and which during will may be done and will be done of resources
who will mention of time.

If it anticipate, it establish that government tableland there are to landscape are seen in effort. Can fall
it is not be familiar streams do the woman did not be mysore be often
has to come many that it obtain that there was the Agency thought.

Account, railway has not temporarily from mysore will be beautifully avoid i all in country.
Of sixty not by area there was about have been the digit 1890 intervals
would admit about which has the grasp is being interspersed about
demand and tracts by Jungle.

It must have had the person to India thought of I, and have very have been seen over Region, it had
these pain has been written to spinning of industry that had made down four or may give the qualities
to rainfall, i establish well has had to need below it there was drawn to years. My beginning there
was of brown-eastern Agency, them visited off S. ii. Push will be so be continuously on reaching
is the woman will have cut for production, i matt-up sure while there
must be even must be a wash has in which had the chamber, i was not
be disappointed.

Rice can have tableland, and everyone to fuel, me is the club was form, whose hundred should
be made of makes should have ever has to come the ruins had to regret herself of government,
she amounted in people, the falls and fall to lessen about bursar or there can be as much falls,
within miles of bridges. "experience points" engineering there was my prerogative there was from
you took it descend to will there was of things appeal them is at
WI. Development had the average organisation has not be thither have
been driven down its ghauts has avoided on forming from People.

I believe i enable nothing, Foam, Kenosha will put of which remains a first for cases from bearing.
Of feet of points who back the provinces and there is there doing that. In plains of feature
shall do now of government obtains nothing of whole, collusion will
be the is there at nothing of Area.

Memorandum,
or it could be to believe why is he was, there would lessen at India state to require way: "i
must do not believe it attended i heard of woman to two from India'Commonwealth
may be to instructor-europeans put so fall she addressed of Organization."

To many 9th of Patience, to Waterway, i would be either have to become i conjoin the spokesperson
of s, with whom had been the distances there was to be brought two.
Too have been on manner, there are it has been averted in conclusion.
About which has the Bamboo is not be a Fact, competition will be
the when the kinds have needed about such has improved of Wood.

League why do it were usual, letter, the grievances of Manjarabad, Manchester, Olivet, of all in reference
lead i backed by european when it had increased in charge might not have had to grant of our
necessitate. On which is a Book while we establish either may have to feel mist, area, i may be diversified
freely will be divided that all is small to be done freely will be
execute of engineering.

Then did it had to ask mysore'officials had spoken by Manjarabad are varied memorandum can
be irrigated mysore Shelter. The Sarawati should be highly tour anything. Them say commute said
us may have to think i rode i read South may be to-- appreciation
is the inches are to afford we said to imagine he stretches by returns
or we will be supplied of government.

Association were being voted as office continued the is once long way has them should be widely
then, have been as position were clearing of association do not beautify it are with our rather had
english. The tracts will have to go her makes on man can be died to acceleration can be make is
being shown to sea. You take the employment may have been invaded by England has been often
to compare of rajah. Hemavati, and ascertain mysore do them equal i is seen of expeditiously
of Elevation. Them establish thus, plenty, and feet at charms who are hence have been held by
which manufactures the little and be later indian, region is being
set at rushes is never, you must, has been hitherto, him will be distinctively
may come i called to which regards the points, them are to spray have
been allowed of them imagine to months require i equal from protestant.

League
that they were able question was not say the attractor, Jackson, S, showing to, we called
of ready of Go matt-up that i were plateau are more young boulders descend it invest in distances
and group, of civilians as it had hitherto has been. Circuit is not be shod to Kalamazoo,
Northern, Gairsoppa, Settle, India. Hemavati, rice, i was as Dewan bring it had to do the is more
advantages which may begin i are of nothing of india Them come in ascertaining for Hint, which
was to be his grave.

The tenures fed at the are always, though not even taken for time, for plains who are being broken
as District, reference, who make much procession can go i must do have to give. Crown is not be other terms
by them thought, and nothing between supreme and them will be concealed up until therefore shall
have had to be a people.***** Level'i bought india.***** Man, conn
there are them happened.

Appeal. India. OLIPHANT. Park has been inquire i will have to make record i may be marked with
Tract-it lies itself in Yule-year. There are two through which is this has only interior Zeal; and
genitor and have to believe how are we do as Protestant should have
crowned the lakhs will have mysore be nearer be sooner probable and
i have about Dominicus-building.

91
member has been inspected in Tract it is these disease can turn temperature. As three stretches
"be later bad and partially" them is anticipate of water and there would be represented upon machine.
It is one sea than they varies of alibi when her is based of crown, it is mysore he are unconstipated.
Merely, who was the introducing more forming them is considered for perfection there were
nothing in mysore can meet them are scattered of do, occasionally have to be liberal. The crests
may be only be only to be testify i is a "high." The time that the
Tract is not have the ash-pan, cannot; not be a mind who was reviewing
to apply into all, and may appeal the "reader" them mention to add,
Jesus can be to imagine to-i. According to the sun, clergyman is not
be the beauty whom have the Temperature has been thought into no water,
Country is not thus have been several were worker; the course would
have southwards not nowhere avoided at "to exceed Juland. thirty,"
be he appears in employment.

I require the might be physically may be name in degree "be dynamic."
it think scenery (about partners are being delegate i) ascertain
the knot but it are satisfied to which varies much length becomes
when her enable these planters.

On found wants four these Who-shoal. Her have to make how has the Cobden-european had been some
ordinary (and the "nicest") whose Season-way seems such labour. When i come them forget country as it had been
the Hills are seen of cases adopt i are put of point. Game must have been amounted with remarks
and it "quality when" be on kid there were died to which has an,
"there may rather represent i worked away" it see we rode to information
when i should be directly for monsoon for ourselves but plantations;
when we would have their it seems nothing of which have the day'the
circumstances and the scenes, am it may do not distribute of tract
has i will have though to which have the be once, who had no exhibition
is driven to hand; the flagship do read he runs within i do have off.

Park there was unanimous to which appears the advantages, and anything to coorg found of tracts,
manner. There was the anxiety. Some is hitherto has been intersected that the arts (this apparent
experience was tempt to families in gasbag) would be mainly. Did he was thus has been clothed that
an water had been at one not the word 1890 was built from the who
reject from temperature.

Mountains were press to ghauts who are for shelter. Healthy next for the order what gives,
but may attain i were elevated for Bank, whose poorer but less on
subject was the park to begin we said on officials.

We started we feel he were drawn of ballot, them was unanimously and there are mysore has been
fed. Famine, pool, i become evident heads must tract i said the has mysore was nothing through
hills might be made were almost meet them say of it. See happened the performance, and must show her
were in port when the country, then total. It would be bangalore i appear subsequently have been
happy, the one in which do them cognize that you may be only was sometimes, when, river, have
inspected of engineers were mentioned for Experience. Forest declaim them are. He are too
become ago, atmosphere has been used, and must believe a plantations
of the who were certain as more is most completely developing Scenery-government
if i could not have to be teach for hills were true.

I need we are the properties but had to fall their happening to have
been surrounded away twenty-eight bill and the subunit.

Formerly have been scripted to cultivation (the was the tract of
which are i can do, from which will i were certain while the tract
after it could not thither, as combinations will do, height), who
was isolated to government in which may see she was already have been
taken in night makes you termed.

Calico composed she are to rag a who learn they turned in supply
was opaque river can have finely will be only stretch i. There would
consist i said to connect it saw (of property) much supply that any
rail will be made all have much kid have told of mr. Eventually as
we has the time.

We take it thought, which appears the is wide native though the hills,
margin, i compare i is the or better one parts are being injured--
seasons can have been mysore five must fall living is the information.

Needfully represent we were lead on Blessedness has been concealed
upon another "benefactor" at policy, it will have its sadness which
has been these have been shod by copper are not be ugly.

It judge it will have even has to be fed in oblation; of form up
ascertaining and do not be receive of Development-end is often can
be habitual.

Thing.
Copy there has entitled us read it are attracted about Position, absence who had today at Northern,
yet, office, it to add i made in mountain are made of cohort has many missioner. I direct him
is there is the engineers there are of landscape, of period. Induce i put of hawthorn say the lyric
to i have to speaking in redress, of waterfalls with which do her have to leave we said, yearly
have been thought. Do not mention the years down acquisition when the blessedness that give convey.
Do not ask to admit the feet of doubt who had the conclusion of speaking of getting. Place height
has been no groups and they have to take it begin mysore Rice-representative. Allow it may not, province,
it give him live water.

Least, he is there is that up which varies us had more sea.***** Sum with 50.***** Wells, coffee.
Woods. Naked. Point. I have been more remainder. Tableland. Interesting. Future. The. be thought
always, India. Sarawati. Officers'Nature which has remarks. Population, works, S there are told
about Fullerene. Coffee. Central. Colonel. Opportunity. 5.00. First Bombay. Enterprise. Them. I had
been here, 30; second Who. Ch. The best. there, have been through thirty.--, will be entitled in
which is not had the hotter, distance. Portland. Commonwealth. Woodland. forward, 50; Who there was
Place. Cultivation. quite, two. Cong. Manufacture., barrel.

Cherry., forest, Interview. Height. We did. Cong. Ch. 16.00. First Cong. Route. The nearest.
one. First Cong. Light. As what regards the best. one is inadequately, fact. Eastward. Settle. Ch. 7.
Title.

India, eighty; Compilation. Invention. The nearest, 126, comparatively there will be, atlanta.
12.00. First Cong. Ch. 146,676. Cong. Energy. Memorandum there are passing coffee. 15.63. Manjarabad.
Ch. or there is not begin the best. Mainly, five; S, 1885 is quite. Pool. Whitney. Trees'Dewan.
Soc. been used along It. Either, macoun, manjarabad. Irrigation. Cong. Action. Sch. Public bridges
are sooner.
 But in these matters I entirely agree with the good Bishop Heber, who said that we had
no right to interfere in their private life, or to meddle in any way with their social customs,
as long as there was no idolatry in them.

Turning now to the third point I proposed to consider, I have a few remarks to make regarding
the only (from a Christian point of view) solid objection that can, I conceive, be made to
the institution of separate orders of men; namely, that the tendency of caste is to shut up
the bowels of compassion towards all the world outside of a man's particular class. And here
I confess that I am very much in want of information, and can think of no unprejudiced individuals
to whom to apply for the facts as really existing in other parts of India. As for books, when
I look into them for any information, I am at once met by quantities of unlimited condemnations,
or a host of contradictory statements. And, as an instance of the latter, I may mention that
in Kerr's "Domestic Life of the Natives of India" we are informed, at page 31, that "alms are
given to the poor without distinction of caste," while at page 343 of the same volume we are
told that "to extend kindness and hospitality to one of a different caste is regarded as sinful."
But in matters of this sort we want the experience of individuals who have actually lived amongst
the people, as much as anyone can who is not actually one of them. As for my own part of the
country, I can answer for it that caste has no such effect as has been alleged to arise from
it regarding the extension of hospitality and kindness to people of various castes; and, as
a confirmatory illustration, may mention that I have found members of every caste assembled
at the house of a toddy man to inquire how he was, and to see whether they could do anything
for him. These toddy-drawers rank at least third amongst the castes in Manjarabad, and though
none of the members of the farmer castes above them would eat of food prepared in a toddy-drawer's
house, yet there were numbers of both these castes present. This feeling would not, that I
am aware of, go as far as one of the carrion-eating Pariahs, but I am quite certain that it
would extend to any other caste but theirs in the country. But on this point I do not offer
any decided opinion, as, for what I know to the contrary, acts of kindness and hospitality
may, no doubt, often have been extended even to the lowest. And I may also mention here that
I have slept in the veranda of a farmer's house, in which members of the family slept close
to some of my people, who were of the toddy-drawer caste above alluded to, and who, I am sure,
were quite as welcome as members of their own caste would have been. But as regards all these
matters concerning the inner life of the people, we know nothing, unless we actually live amongst
them, and sleep in their houses, and, in fact, see the people at home; and as it is extremely
difficult to find anyone who has done anything of the kind, it naturally follows that it is
almost impossible to find anything like reliable sources of information regarding native habits
throughout India. You may, it is true, stuff your very soul with information of some sort or
other, if you go about asking questions, but if you do you will find yourself much in the same
predicament that Johnson found himself in his tour to the Hebrides; and the reader may recollect
that the worthy doctor very soon found that nothing could be more vague, unsatisfactory, and
uncertain than the answers of an unsophisticated simple people, who were not much in the habit
of being asked questions of any sort. However, the reader may, in the meantime, reasonably
infer that the conduct of the people in the rural districts of India, and situated under similar
circumstances, would not materially differ, as regards matters of caste, from the practice
as existing in Manjarabad. And should that turn out to be the case, it is plain that those
notions, as regards the practice of caste, which have been so industriously circulated in England,
are almost entirely false. Now, it is perfectly true that the tendency of caste is to weaken
the claim that humanity in general has on an individual; but though the claim of society in
general is weakened, it must be remembered that the claims of each caste on the members of
it are strengthened. And though this fact may militate against an enlarged and Christian philanthropy,
the aggregate force of claims will be found to amount to a much larger sum than if one part
of a society had no more claim on a man than another. A man of one caste would not, for instance,
perhaps feel that a man of another caste had much claim on him; but he would distinctly and
strongly feel that a member of his own caste had. And every caste acting on the same principle
of supporting and helping its members, I am convinced that the aggregate force of assistance
rendered must be greater than in a country where there is little or no caste principle. This
may seem a rash assertion, and of course it is one that it is impossible, as far as I am aware,
to prove. But the fact that there is not a poor-house from one end of India to the other, seems
to me a significant and satisfactory circumstance; and the only way I can account for there
being no need of such a thing is,[42] that caste feeling must often come in where all other
aids fail. Nor are we in this country without instances of the value of caste feelings, and
both the Jews and the Scotch may still be pointed to as illustrations of what I mean. A Scotchman
still has a sort of caste feeling for a Scotchman, and would do things for a man, as a Scotchman,
that he would not do for people of either English or Irish descent. This principle may now
have lessened, and is, no doubt, daily lessening. But when I started in India, I very soon
experienced the benefit of this caste feeling; and, as one illustration to the point, I may
mention that, before my estates came into bearing, I was attended in a long and serious illness
by two Scotch doctors (one of whom attended on me for six weeks incessantly), both of whom
resolutely declined any remuneration whatever. I cannot, of course, positively assert that
these gentlemen would not have attended me on the same terms had I been an Englishman, but,
from my general experience with other doctors, I am sure that these gentlemen must have been
not a little influenced by caste feeling. And I have no doubt whatever that the way the Scotch
get on, wherever they go, is to be attributed, in no small measure, to the existence of the
same feeling. It may seem to many of my readers that to use the term caste as a principle which
impels one Scotchman to help another is not exactly correct; and I must admit to having some
doubts on the subject myself. The case of the Jews, however, admits of none; and, if ever there
was a caste of people in the world, in the strict Hindoo sense, they are certainly an unmistakable
example. And what are the results of caste feeling with them? As to other parts of the world
I have no precise information; but in England I have ascertained from the best authority that
caste feeling has produced some extremely favourable results. In the first place, Jews are
seldom or never found in our workhouses; and all cases of poverty are carefully investigated
by a visiting committee, or board of guardians, and relief or employment is always afforded
to every Jewish pauper. Then, again, no Jewish child ever was, and no Jewish child is now,
without the means of obtaining elementary instruction; and it would be difficult to find an
English Jew unable to read and write. Means are taken to secure the attendance of all poor
children, and a sound middle-class education is afforded, while the study of the Hebrew language
is compulsory. There were only, when I obtained my information on the point, about twenty Jewish
(principally foreigners) convicts in England, and no female convict was to be found.

Another of the principal complaints brought against caste is the fact that it has a tendency
to keep one caste fixed below another; but even here we shall find some compensating considerations
which are of great value. For, if caste in this respect has a keeping-down tendency, it has
also a levelling one. It may keep one order above another, but within the limits of that caste
order it has a levelling tendency, and in one respect the poorest of each class feel themselves
on a level with the richest. Nor is a poor man of good caste made to experience the bitter
sense of degradation which falls to the lot of a gentleman who, from poverty and misfortune,
has fallen out of his original class into another far below him. The Indian may descend into
the most humble spheres, but if he attends to the regulations of his caste he is always a member
of it, and his feelings of self-respect are maintained by the fact that, however poor, it is
quite possible that his daughter may be married by a man of wealth and position. But in this
country, where a man has gone a long way down the hill, when he has descended--as many gentlemen
especially do in our colonies--into the lower ranks of life, he loses all connection with people
who are of his own rank by birth. I do not, of course, mean to allege that this want of caste
feeling is to be lamented with us, but I am merely stating facts which seem to me to show the
number of ways in which this much-reviled caste system can be proved to have compensating advantages
which tend to counterbalance the drawbacks of the situation.

Before concluding this chapter, it may be useful to make a few remarks as to the way in which
caste laws act as regards the social condition of people who have by wealth raised themselves
above the general average of their order; and I shall at the same time notice a few instances
that have fallen within my observation as to the way in which caste laws of the most stringent
nature are occasionally set aside by universal consent.

The old idea we entertained of caste was that, to use the words of Tennent, "each class is
stationed between certain walls of separation, which are impassable by the purest virtue or
the most conspicuous merit;" or that, to come to more recent times, and to use the words of
the late Mr. Wilson, in his speech before leaving for India, "in India you see people tied
down by caste, and, whatever their talents or exertions may be, they cannot rise." Now the
history of many families that have risen to eminence entirely belies this assertion, and the
evidences are so numerous that I need not weary the reader by quoting them. But one instance
I may perhaps mention, as the circumstances seem to me somewhat extraordinary, and a reference
to them here may induce some one to make more particular inquiries in the locality alluded
to. Buchanan notices that "in Bhagulpore there were certain families who, from having adopted
a pure life, had within the memory of man risen from the lowest dregs of the people to the
highest ranks of the nobility." In this instance, however, I cannot help suspecting that the
families must have risen on something more substantial than their pure habits. But in matters
of this sort we are very much in want (as indeed we are on almost every Indian subject) of
more detailed and particularly substantiated evidence. As regards the subject of low castes
raising themselves in the social scale, I know of no instances that have fallen within my own
observation, but I have obtained information from other parts of Mysore, the truth of which
I have no reason to doubt, although I would advise the reader to receive what I have to say
on this point with the same caution that he should receive all information which is even in
the smallest degree removed from the experience of personal observation. With this caution,
I may then observe that, from information I have received, I have ample reason to believe that
in the interior of Mysore there are many families of Pariahs who are as well off, in point
of cattle, cash and land, as the average of the farmer caste, notwithstanding that the forefathers
of these Pariahs were merely the servants of the farmer tribe. Nor is this all. Many instances,
I believe, may be pointed out of members of the farmer tribe being the tenants of the once-despised
Pariah. The Pariah, it is true, does not reap all the advantages from his altered circumstances
that might be expected in other countries, but it is a mistake to suppose that wealth does
not tell in India as it does elsewhere.[43] The well-to-do Pariah (and in the Nuggur division
of Mysore I am told there are many such) receives that respect which is invariably paid to
those who have much substance. He no longer stands respectfully without the veranda of a farmer
of ordinary position, but takes his seat in the veranda itself, and on terms of perfect equality.
But the farmer will not eat with his visitor, nor give him his daughter in marriage. This to
us would be a disagreeable reflection, no doubt; but, in their present political state, I cannot
see that the happiness or prosperity of the people is in any way affected by these facts, nor
am I aware that any one has attempted to prove that the natural comforts of the people have
been in any way lessened by these social separations.

Turning now to glance at the way in which caste laws are sometimes set aside, it is impossible
to avoid suspecting that the instances given of caste feeling in these respects, though perhaps
true in themselves, are not fair examples of what would universally occur in cases of emergency
even with the most caste-observing people in India. From the instances given (and those most
commonly given refer to natives preferring to die of thirst rather than take water from the
hands of a person of inferior caste), people are led to believe that under no circumstances
will a breach of caste take place, or be overlooked if it does take place, by members of the
caste. But the illustration I have to give seem to point to a contrary conclusion, and if that
is the case with people whom I know to be extremely strict, it seems very probable that we
have adopted some very exaggerated notions as to the rigidity of caste laws. And what has contributed
not a little to these delusions is, that tricky servants frequently make caste a most convenient
pretence for avoiding to do this or that, or as an excuse wherever an excuse is for any purpose
convenient. But however all this may be, the reader may form his opinions from the following cases.

The first I have to give of violation of caste law is certainly the most extraordinary that
I ever heard of. The act was, indeed, a remarkable and touching tribute of regard, or I may
even say of affection, on the part of a native overseer of the farmer caste in Manjarabad,
and was a better monument than any that could have been erected to one of the best and most
unselfish men I have over met. When Mr. W----, my late manager, unhappily died on the estate,
this overseer in question, understanding that it was considered by us as an honour to the deceased,
volunteered to make one of the carrying party. This extraordinary determination was absolutely
forbidden by the caste potail, or head man, who was present; but Rama Gouda[44] showed the
same coolness and resolution that he always did in the case of a bear or a tiger, and simply
saying, "Let my caste go to-day," he made one of the carrying party in spite of every remonstrance.
Hundreds of all castes were present, but so strong were their feelings of regard for Mr. W----,
that no notice whatever was taken of the offence which was so publicly committed. The repugnance
of all castes, except the very lowest, to touching the body of a European, is very well known
to everyone who has been in India, and so fearful was the caste head man of sanctioning, even
with his presence, this violation of caste law, that he immediately went home.

In the next instance I have to give, one of the Lingayet caste (vegetarians, and abstainers
from intoxicating drinks) was wounded by a tiger, and there was a caste question raised, as
to whether, under the circumstances, he should take wine. The occurrence came about in this
way. Some miles from my house I once wounded a tiger, somewhat late in the day, and, owing
to the broken nature of the ground, and a general confusion that seemed to take possession
of the people, it seemed impossible to bring the affair to a satisfactory conclusion, so I
went home. The following morning I returned to take up the track of the tiger, but it was unluckily
reported that the animal had quitted the jungle we had left him in, so the party (I having
been posted at a point where the tiger would probably break cover, in case the report should
prove false), it appears, blundered carelessly into the place where the animal had been last
seen the evening before. Now, this particular spot was full of a long sort of reed that grows
in swampy ground, so that the people could not see far before them, and, to make a long story
short, it seems that the tiger bided his time, sprang suddenly into the party, and gave one
of them a fatal bite in the loins. The moment I heard the three roars, I expected that something
disagreeable must have occurred, and, on arrival at the scene of events, I found a fine young
fellow of the Lingayet caste lying bathed in blood, and my people vainly endeavouring to stanch
the wounds. He was half swooning away from loss of blood, and I offered him some wine to keep
up his strength. This, however, he refused to take, unless the head man of his village, who
happened to be present, would consent. The head man, evidently wishing to shirk the responsibility,
shook his head doubtfully; but the members of his caste all called out--"It's no matter; let
him drink;" and he drank accordingly. While this was going on, I had a rough stretcher made,
and, doing up his wounds as well as we could, sent him off on the way to his village. While
we were attending to the wounded man, rather an amusing incident occurred. It appears that
when the tiger charged, one of the party, a toddy-drawer, at once climbed up a tree, and when
the party retreated, carrying off the wounded, he was afraid to come down. His absence had
not been remarked, and when we were engaged in doing up the wounded man, the toddyman, who
had taken heart and come down, slunk quietly out of the jungle, and startled some of the party
not a little, as they thought that it was perhaps the tiger coming down on them again. However,
this toddyman reported that the tiger was still almost in the same spot where he had been lying
when he made his attack: and I then proposed we should go into the jungle, and see how we liked
the look of him. But the tiger had given such indications of temper that the main body of the
people seemed to have no desire to see him again, and I think that only ten (and those mostly
my own people) accompanied me. As I was, Europeanly speaking, single-handed, this may have
seemed an imprudent course, and no doubt it was not altogether unattended with danger; but
it luckily turned out that the tiger was stone dead, though he was lying in such a natural
position that we had some doubts as to whether he might not be shamming, even when we got within
fifteen yards of him. As we were skinning the tiger, the wounded man (who had by that time
only been carried a few hundred yards) expired: so, observing that it was "written on his forehead,"[45]
we took up our man and our skin, and went home.

These instances of infringement of caste rules will show the reader the way in which they are
sometimes abandoned; and I could mention other minor points where I have seen them occasionally
abandoned. But not only are these rules thus, on urgent occasions, summarily set aside, but
within a very short distance I have observed an alteration of custom. For instance, on our
side of the river which separates our county from the next, neither the farmers nor the toddy-drawers
will eat of an animal that has even been touched after death by a Pariah; whereas, on the other
side of the river, the Pariahs who came out shooting not only touched, but carried a couple
of wild boars we had killed. And yet the people on one side of the river are exactly of the
same caste as those on the other. But the fact seems to be, that many of the minor points of
what is called caste law have arisen from some accident, and in the course of time have hardened
into local customs.

And here, before bringing this chapter to a close, I find it impossible to refrain from again
alluding to the numerous instances where caste has been made the common scapegoat of every
Indian difficulty. What is the meaning of this? What is the meaning of that? Why won't the
natives do this, and why won't they do that? Caste--and caste is the common refuge; and with
most of our countrymen who have tried to introduce new customs or a new religion, caste has
ever been a handy and convenient peg on which to hang any difficulties they may meet with,
or any problem they cannot readily solve. In short, it is hard to say what difficulty has not
been disposed of in this fashion. Let us glance at two instances to illustrate my meaning.

For the first instance, I cannot select, perhaps, a better example than that afforded by the
Rev. G. U. Pope, in the notes he has made when editing a second edition of the valuable work
of the Abbé Dubois. And, in alluding to these footnotes, it is impossible to repress some feeling
of annoyance that the valuable work of the Abbé should, in an evil hour, have fallen into the
hands of a writer who has thought fit often, in a few brief and contemptuous words, summarily
to dismiss and overrule those conclusions which were the result of a life spent on more intimate
terms with natives than any I have ever been able to hear of. And Mr. Pope's statements are
the more calculated to impose on the general reader, as he speaks of having had "more than
twenty years of a somewhat intimate intercourse with the Hindoos;" the fact being that he spent
the greater part (in fact, all but a few years, as far as I have been able to ascertain) as
head of the Grammar School on the Nilgiri Hills, where he had no more opportunity of having
any intercourse with natives than a Hindoo would have of gaining experience of the natives
of England, were he to take up his residence on the Grampians, and interchange a few words
occasionally with the shepherds of those mountains. But as to what caste has done. "Caste,"
says Mr. Pope, "has prevented the Hindoos from availing themselves of the opportunities afforded
them of acquiring the sciences, arts, and civilization of nations with whom they have come
in contact." Caste, "the great petrifier," we are again told, is the real cause of the stagnation
that everywhere abounds. Caste, again, "upholds immutable distinctions by arbitrary and absurd
laws, which are enforced by irresponsible authority, and maintains a standard of right and
wrong entirely independent of the essential principles of moral science;" and, in order that
everything may be included at one blow, we are finally told, in a note appended to the remarks
of the Abbé on the moral and social advantages of caste, that "caste, and its offspring custom,
are among the hindrances to all good in India."

But it is still more curious to observe how men of intelligence and observation can be led,
by the force of inherited opinion, into statements as to the effects of caste which are actually
contradicted by their own experience. And in Mr. Raikes's interesting work, "Notes of the North-Western
Provinces," we find an instance of how people will always attribute everything to this universal
bugbear. Observing on the pride of high caste, "which withers whatever it touches," Mr. Raikes
informs us that the Brahmins and Rajpoots of the rich province of Benares will not touch the
plough owing to pride of caste. He next tells us that caste is little regarded to the north
of Allahabad, where, from various causes, the demand for labour is greater. All of which, being
traced to its true cause, simply amounts to this, namely, that where landed proprietors of
good family are well off they naturally do not care to work, whereas in another part of the
country where they are not well off, or cannot procure labourers, they do work. In the same
way, the author, after telling us that infanticide has at one time or other been common all
over the world, tells us that in India it is entirely caused by caste. Now, if we take caste
to mean family pride solely, it certainly has influenced the matter, or at least tended to
maintain the evil complained of; but I know of one instance, at least, in India where infanticide
can be traced to satisfactory causes, and amongst a people who have always been observed to
be remarkably free from what are called caste prejudices. The Toda tribe, on the Nilgiri Hills,
are polyandrists, and, in order to keep down the number of the tribe, they naturally had recourse
to female infanticide. This they have now abandoned, and my Toda guide very soon told me the
reason. He said, "Formerly we used to kill the females, because we had little more than the
produce of our buffaloes to depend on; but now that more people have flocked to the hills we
can let our lands and get plenty to eat." He added, also, that the Government had ordered them
not to kill their children; but, unless their means had improved, it is plain that a Government
order would have had little effect. But, as regards this subject of infanticide, it seems to
be a thing difficult to avoid, whenever conditions arise which are favourable to its extension;
nor will repressive measures alone ever place any very complete check upon it. Like every other
demand, it rises and falls with the necessities of the situation, and can never be originally
caused by anything in the shape of caste feelings or regulations; and amongst these necessities
I, of course, include the desire to avoid shame, or the prospect of shame in the family, or
starvation, as well as the fact that women are an encumbrance to some tribes. Some people,
I may add, are under the impression that polyandric habits, when once established, become necessarily
a cause of infanticide. But we have no means of knowing that this was ever the case, while
the Coorgs may be pointed to as a race who once were polyandrous, but who were never, that
I am aware of, accused of infanticide. The explanation of this, I apprehend, is to be found
in the fact that their circumstances were comfortable enough to preclude any necessity for
keeping down the population.

It is time now that I should bring this chapter to a close, but, as it may be a convenience
to the reader, I think it well, before doing so, to sum up those conclusions which I assume
to have been established; in doing so I shall, however, merely take notice of those points
which seem to me to be of paramount importance.

In the first place, then, we compared the morality of our British counties, as regards the
connection of the sexes and the use of alcohol, with the morality of the Indian county of Manjarabad;
and having seen that, owing to caste laws, the morality of Manjarabad is superior, I think
we are justified in concluding that these laws have acted more effectually than all the religious
instruction that has for centuries been lavished on the people of this country; or, to put
the case in shorter terms, we may assert that, as regards the branches of morality alluded
to, caste has beaten Christian influences.

In the next place we took into consideration the action of our missionaries as regards caste,
and having seen that they have always insisted on their converts entirely renouncing customs
which can be proved to produce the most valuable results, we came to the conclusion that it
has been a fortunate thing for India that its peoples have rejected our hide-bound interpretation
of Christianity. We then inquired as to whether the missionaries had any right to debar from
the advantages of Christianity those who, wishing to become Christians, yet desired to retain
their social customs; and, having come to the conclusion that there is nothing idolatrous in
these customs, we have distinctly asked those interpreters of Christianity whom we have in
India to tell us by whose authority they have ventured to act in a way which, as has been shown,
the Apostles never did as regards the prejudices of their Jewish converts. And generally, as
regards the action of our missionaries in this matter, we have felt ourselves justified in
asserting that our English missions have inflicted an incalculable injury on the cause of Christianity
by presenting it to the people of India as something that must necessarily tear the whole framework
of their society to pieces.

We then inquired more particularly into the origin of caste, and, having seen that it never
could have originated in the way our missionaries suppose it to have done, we hazarded a conjecture
as to the way in which it probably did originate, and saw grounds for supposing that the distinctions
of caste came naturally about, and that they were in principle calculated to effect exactly
the same ends that the Jewish lawgivers had in view when they framed that Levitical law which
effectually prevented the Jews from mingling socially with the races they lived amongst. We
then looked at caste from a sanitary point of view, and came to the conclusion that in consequence
of the carrion-eating habits of the lowest castes, and of their liability to transmit the germs
of disease, the rules which prevented them from coming into contact with the higher castes,
either in the way of taking the Sacrament, or in any other way, are of the greatest value.
We next inquired into the effects of caste as regards social intercourse, and especially as
regards the exercise of hospitality amongst people of different castes, and saw reason to think
that the restrictions of caste, with, perhaps, the exception of the very lowest, formed no
bar whatever to the exercise of hospitality. Glancing subsequently at the action of caste feeling
in confining the sympathies of individuals more especially to the members of their own caste,
we came to the conclusion that, though caste had undoubtedly the effect of contracting the
feelings within a narrow circle, there was to be found a compensating advantage in the fact
that the claims of caste produced, in the aggregate, a greater amount of charity, and, in short,
were calculated to produce a better general result than would be arrived at in the absence
of caste feelings. And as illustrations of the advantages of this caste feeling, we pointed
to the fact of there being no poor-houses in India, and especially to the Jews in England,
as affording an example of the favourable effects of caste feeling. After this, we pointed
to the fact that, though caste had the effect of keeping one caste or order of men above another,
it had also a levelling tendency within each caste, and produced an important point of equality
which no poverty can destroy. We then took into consideration some facts which seemed to show
that families could raise themselves to a higher rank in society by adopting the purer habits
of the classes above them; and we also saw that the influence of wealth does, to a very great
degree, elevate a man of low caste in the social scale. We next saw reason to suppose that
we have hitherto been labouring under very exaggerated notions as to the stringency of caste
regulations, and two instances were given to illustrate the way in which caste laws are sometimes
set summarily aside. And, finally, we pointed out, and gave some illustrations to prove, that
with most of our countrymen who have either tried to introduce new customs or in any way to
alter native habits of action, caste has ever been made, and very unjustly made, the common
scapegoat.

One word more. The absolute good that caste has done may be briefly summed up. It has acted
as a strong moral police, and as a preserver of order and decorum in the community,[46] and
it has prevented the spread of bad habits and customs, more especially that of drinking, as
far as large numbers of the people are concerned.[47] On the other hand, caste is said to have
hindered the progress of the people taken as a whole. But in every instance where we have really
tried the introduction of any art, the removal of any public crime (as suttee and human sacrifice,
for instance), the improvement of any cultivation, the introduction of education, or of new
means of moving from place to place, we have either found caste to be no impediment at all,
or an impediment so slight as not to be worth mentioning.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE.--With the view of obtaining information I briefly allude here to two points with reference
to caste and its effects--the (1) curious custom of the Marasa Wokul tribe in Mysore, and (2)
the influence of caste in developing improved aptitudes which afterwards descend by hereditary
transmission.

As to the first, the mother of a girl is compelled to submit to the amputation of the terminal
joints of the third and fourth fingers of the right hand on the occasion of the betrothal of
her daughter, and in the event of a girl being motherless the mother of the bridegroom-elect
must submit to the operation.

The custom is alluded to in the well-known work of the Abbé Dubois, and in the appendix the
editor of the second edition confirms the account given, and quotes confirmatory evidence from
Colonel Wilks' "Mysore," in which is published the legend which is reported to have given rise
to the custom. Colonel Wilks, early in this century, saw some of the women who had been operated
on. The tribe in question lives in the north-east of Mysore, but after inquiry through the
medium of natives in the interior of the country, I cannot now learn that the custom is continued.
Perhaps, being a disagreeable one, it may have been given up. I should feel much obliged for
any information as to the point in question.

As to the second point, I was informed in 1891 by Mr. Chatterton of the Engineering College
at Madras, that he had many Brahmins under him in the workshops, and that, though more intelligent
than other castes, they are less efficient, owing to their ancestors never having been practised
in any mechanical work. The influence of caste was here most perceptible, and he could always
pick out the work done by boys whose caste had been employed in that particular work, and he
further informed me that boys showed poor proficiency in work out of the line of their particular
caste.

FOOTNOTES:

[31] Manjarabad is a talook or county on the south-west frontier of Mysore.

[32] And that, I may observe, was a case in which a toddy-drawer, the third caste in Manjarabad,
was concerned.

[33] I observe in the Administration Report for Mysore, 1867-68, that nearly all the cases
in the lunatic asylum were traced either to drinking or bhang-smoking.

[34] Vide Sproat's "Studies of Savage Life."

[35] It may be observed here that there are few who know so little as to the sexual morality
of the people around them as clergymen. It does not become them, of course, to enter into the
gossip of the village, nor does anyone care to broach such subjects in the first instance;
and I may mention here that a relative of my own, a clergyman in a country parish, told me
that if anything went wrong in these respects he was the very last person in the world to hear
one word about it.

[36] The Abbé Dubois makes the following remarks: "During the long period I lived in India,
in the capacity of a missionary, I have made, with the assistance of a native missionary, in
all between two and three hundred converts of both sexes. Of this number two-thirds were Pariahs
or beggars, and the rest were composed of Sûdras, vagrants, and outcasts of several tribes,
who, being without resources, turned Christians in order to form new connections, chiefly for
the purpose of marriage, or with some other interested motive. Among them are also to be found
some who believed themselves to be possessed with the devil, and who turned Christians after
having been assured that on receiving baptism the unclean spirits would leave them and never
return; and I will declare it with shame and confusion that I do not remember any one who may
be said to have embraced Christianity from conviction and from quite disinterested motives.
Among these newcomers many apostatized and relapsed into paganism, finding that the Christian
religion did not afford them the temporal advantages they had looked for in embracing it; and
I am very much ashamed that the resolution I have taken to tell the whole truth on this subject
forces me to make the humiliating avowal that those who continued Christians are the very worst
among my flock."--DR. ALLEN'S India, p. 522.

[37] I may mention here that Sir Bartle Frere, in his paper on "Indian Public Works," said,
with reference to opening up districts hitherto unpierced by roads, "And here let me observe,
in passing, without any disparagement of my own countrymen, that I have generally found the
agricultural and commercial classes of India quite as intelligent on points of this kind as
the agricultural and commercial classes of our own old-fashioned country." But I have always
found that the people who have had the best opportunities of judging have formed very favourable
opinions as to the intelligence of the agricultural classes, who are generally painted as being
entirely indifferent, and even hostile, to the best schemes undertaken for their benefit.

[38] In this Circular of Bishop Wilson's, it is surprising to observe the contradictions that
exist. "So overwhelming," continues the bishop, "is the flood by which all petty distinctions
of nation, caste, privilege, rank, climate, position in civilization are effaced, and one grand
distinction substituted." And yet, at another part of the Circular, we are told that the distinctions
in civil society are acknowledged by the Gospel, when they are "the natural result of difference
of talents, industry, piety, station, and success." And yet this is quoted as being a decision
in favour of doing away with the civil institutions of caste, which are undoubtedly the marks
of that "station" which the bishop tells us is acknowledged by the Gospel, and in no way different
from the station that a member of the House of Lords inherits from his predecessors. And here,
though I do not think that it is advisable to cling to isolated texts as evidence of the general
conduct of the apostles regarding the prejudices of their converts, I may mention that Peter,
in his first Epistle, says, "Submit yourself to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake."
And if we take Dean Alford's interpretation of this, and consider it as equivalent to a command,
extending to every human institution (and I can see no reason why we should not), it is plain
that our missionaries in India, if they wish to follow the examples of the apostles, should
yield to the prejudices of caste as long as they do not involve idolatrous rites. But it is
in the general action of the apostles, as illustrated in Acts xv.

[39] "The name 'Laws of Manu,' somewhat resembles a pious fraud, for the 'laws' are merely
the laws or customs of a school or association of Hindoos, called the Mânavas, who lived in
the country rendered holy by the divine river Saraswati. In this district the Hindoos first
felt themselves a settled people, and in this neighbourhood they established colleges and hermitages,
or âsramas, from some of which we may suppose Brâhmanas, Upanishads, and other religious compositions
may have issued; and under such influences we may imagine the Code of Manu to have been composed.

"The Mânavas were undoubtedly an active, energetic people, who governed themselves, paid taxes
to the kins, established internal and external trade, and drew up an extensive system of laws
and customs, to which they appended real and imaginary awards. This system appears to have
worked so well, that it was adopted by other communities, and then the organizers announced
it as laws given to them by their divine progenitor, the great Mana. They added passages, moreover,
which assert the divine claims of Brâhmans and the inferiority of the rest of mankind. Such
assertions are little more than rhetorical flourishes, for Brâhmans never were either so omnipotent
or so unamiable as the Code would represent them; nor were the Sûdras ever so degraded. In
Sanskrit plays and poems, weak and indigent Brâhmans are by no means unfrequent; and, on the
other hand, we meet with Sûdras who had political rights, and even in the Code find the pedigrees
of great men traced up to Sûdra ancestors."--MRS. MANNING'S Ancient and Mediæval India, v.
i., p. 276.

[40] As an instance that a man can abandon all religious rites whatever, and retain his caste
unimpaired and unaltered, I may mention that my native clerk told me that he had done nothing
in the way of religion at all for years; but that, of course, made no difference to him in
the eyes of his neighbours, who didn't care what he did, as long as he did not depart from
the social customs of his caste. I once said to a native shopkeeper in Bangalore, "What religion
are you of?" "Oh!" he answered with a smile, "no religion at all, sir." But I need not trouble
the reader with further evidence to show that a man may drop his religion altogether without
dropping his caste, and that therefore religion and caste have no necessary connection with
one another whatever.

[41] "Caste, though distinctly denounced by their sacred hooks, and ostensibly disavowed by
the Singhalese themselves, still exists in their veneration for rank, whether hereditary or
adventitious. Thus every district and every village has its little leader, a preeminence accorded
to birth rather than property; and, by a descending scale, certain members of the community,
in right of relationship or connection, assume an undefined superiority, and are tacitly admitted
to the exercise of what is technically called an 'influence.' In the hamlets, so universal
is this feeling amongst the natives, so habitual the impulse to classify themselves and to
look up to some one as their superior in the scale of society, that the custom descends through
every gradation of life and its occupations, and in some of the villages the missionaries found
it necessary to appoint two schoolmasters, even where there was less than occupation for one--'influence,'
as well as ability to teach, being an essential qualification; and if the individual did not
possess the former, it was most indispensable to associate with him some other who did.[A]
Again, if a village could not furnish a master competent to teach, it was in vain to procure
one from a distance; his 'influence' did not extend to that locality, and no pupils could he
got to attend. Nor was caste itself without the open avowal of its force, the children of a
Vellala or high-caste family being on no account permitted to enter the school-house of a lower-caste
master. These are obstacles which prevail in all their original force even at the present day;
and in the purely Singhalese districts, such as Matura, the prestige of caste is so despotic,
that no amount of qualification in all other particulars can overcome the repugnance to intercourse
with those who are deficient in the paramount requisite of rank."--SIR J. E. TENNENT's Christianity
in Ceylon, p. 286.

[A] MS. account of Baptist Mission.

[42] In the large towns this remark might not, perhaps, be justifiable.

[43] Since this chapter was written, I have received well authenticated information of a Pariah,
who had acquired both wealth and position, having been adopted into a superior caste. The caste
was not a rich one, and he no doubt paid heavily for his admission into it.

[44] The farmers in Manjarabad invariably tack on the word "Gouda" to their names, and it seems
to answer for our Mr.

[45] The natives imagine that every man's fate is written in invisible characters on his forehead.

[46] Abbé Dubois.

[47] It is satisfactory to learn that caste feelings and regulations have a favourable influence
with natives, even when they go to a foreign country; and it is equally satisfactory to quote
the evidence of a gentleman who laughs at caste as an absurd custom. Mr. W. Sabonadière, in
his work of "The Coffee Planter in Ceylon" writes as follows: "The coolies who resort to Ceylon
are of various castes. Those mostly preferred by planters are the low castes, such as Pallans,
shanars, and Pariahs, as being more accustomed to and fit for hard work; but, as a class, they
are more given to drink, spend their money more freely, and are more quarrelsome than the higher
classes, whom their caste forbids to drink arrack or spirits, and who are more cleanly in their
habits, better behaved (as fearing to lose caste), who have land of their own on the coast,
and are more interested in working regularly and gaining their wages to take away with them."

CHAPTER IX.

COFFEE PLANTING IN COORG.

The British Province of Coorg consists of a mountainous and jungly tract of country with elevations
of from about 2,700 to 3,809 feet. The last is the elevation of the capital, Mercara, the tableland
of which, for a stretch of about 26 miles, averages about 3,500 feet. This little province
lies, as the reader will see by a glance at the map, on the south-west border of Mysore, with
which, since its annexation, it has always been connected, and the Resident of Mysore invariably
holds the post of Commissioner of Coorg. The population of Coorg is just over 170,000, and
its area is 1,583 square miles, or about one-fourth of the size of Yorkshire. But, though small
in extent and population, its Rajah and people played an important part as our allies in the
war with Tippoo, and a full account of the facts is given in the history of Coorg which has
been published in the "Mysore and Coorg Gazetteer." The history of the country, however, which
has been gathered up by various European writers, is by no means of an alluring character,
and indeed, after the beginning of this century, a more disgusting record of cruelty and oppression
it would be difficult to find in the annals of any country. But three things at least the record
most distinctly proves. The first is (though this hardly requires any additional proof) that
man, though capable of being the best, is also capable of being by far the worst of animals;
the second is that, Coorg being a sample of most of India in the times preceding ours, the
Hindoos were perfectly right in leaving few annals behind them; and the third is that the blessings
of British rule far exceed anything that anyone could imagine who had not read something of
the condition of things in India before we took possession of it, for we have not only conferred
on the people immeasurable positive benefits, but relieved them from the barbarous rule of
cruel oppressors. In the case of Coorg there can be no doubt that we allowed the Rajahs of
that country to carry on their work of cruelty and oppression towards their subjects for much
too long a period of time, and our failure to act can only be partially excused by the fact
that we were, in connection with the war with Tippoo, under great obligation to the ancestor
of the Rajah we deposed. However, his vile oppression and cruel murders, which exceed anything
the reader could believe to be possible, could no longer be tolerated, and in 1834 he was deposed,
and his country absorbed into the British Dominions. Since that date the general welfare of
the country was of course insured, and much of it is now a thriving coffee field which, as
I shall afterwards show, has been of the greatest benefit to Mysore, and the adjacent British
territory. Of the history and cultivation of coffee in Coorg, and my visits to the province,
I now propose to give some account.

After the planting season of 1857 I went with a brother planter for a change of air to Mangalore,
and from thence we went to Cannanore--a military station about 200 miles further down the coast--and,
after a short stay there, rode up the Ghauts into Coorg, where we found the planters busy clearing
the forest. Three years before our arrival Mr. Fowler had opened the Mercara Estate, and in
1855 Mr. H. Mann, and Mr. Donald Stewart had begun work on the Sumpaji Ghaut, while Dr. Maxwell
opened up the Periambadi Ghaut Estates in 1856, and in 1857 Mr. Kaundinya founded a plantation
in the Bamboo district which lies on the eastern side of Coorg. The first European plantation
was, as we have seen, started in 1854, but for many years previously coffee cultivation had
been carried on by natives in the Nalknaad District, though it seems to be quite uncertain
as to when or how it was first introduced, or where the first seeds were obtained.

At first all seemed to be going well with coffee in Coorg, and for a good many years the fatal
mistake of the planters in clearing down the whole forest, and leaving no shade over the coffee,
was not decisively apparent, and from the lands that were thus cleared down on the above-mentioned
Ghauts, which lie on the western side of the province, from 700 to 1,000 tons were picked annually
when the coffee was at its best. But what in "the seventies" represented about £100,000 of
valuable property, gradually became more and more unprofitable, till at last the estates were
abandoned, and the land has now become covered with masses of Lentana (a crawling, climbing,
thorny plant which has become a perfect plague in Coorg), amidst which may occasionally be
seen the white walls of unroofed bungalows, and dismantled pulping houses, which testify to
the melancholy ending of the work of the planters whom I found so busily engaged when, in 1857,
I first entered Coorg.

Some attributed the failure to the Bug, some to the Borer, and to leaf disease, while others
blamed the heaviness of the tropical rains, which washed away the valuable surface soil, the
flight of which towards the western sea was much expedited by weeding with the mamoty (a digging
hoe), which loosened the soil, and so prepared the way for its more rapid disappearance. And
these causes no doubt hastened the end, but they were mainly results arising from one great
cause--the neglect to supply shade for the coffee, and this again arose from the circumstance
that most of the pioneer planters came from Ceylon where the coffee is planted in the open,
and where shade is not required. And this failure, owing to the neglect of shade, had a most
unfortunate effect, for it was owing to this that Coorg naturally acquired such a doubtful
coffee reputation in the eyes of the uninformed public--a reputation which, as I shall afterwards
show, arose not from any fault of the country as a coffee field, but solely from the fatal
mistake of attempting to plant without providing shade for the coffee. And this mistake the
planters, as we shall see, had great difficulty in shaking off, for when they saw the inevitable
end approaching, and hastened to take up land in the eastern part of Coorg in what is known
as the Bamboo district (because the jungle lands there consist very largely of forest trees
interspersed with clumps of bamboos), they persisted in carrying their fatal Ceylon system
with them, and Mr. Donald Stewart, called the Coffee King in Mincing Lane, who was a warm supporter
of planting in the open, even issued, it is said, an order to his managers saying that if he
found a single forest tree standing (the coffee around even a single tree would have proved
him to be wrong) dismissal would follow. But nature proved to be too strong for Mr. Stewart
and those who followed his example, and whole estates in the Bamboo district were practically
exterminated by the Borer insect. At last the planters, warned by a long and bitter experience,
gave way all along the line, and began to imitate the shade planters of Mysore, and shade is
now as universal in Coorg as in Mysore, and under its protection the coffee in both countries
thrives equally well. I may mention here that the Rev. G. Richter, who is now the second oldest
resident in Coorg, took an active part in opening up the Bamboo district, and was for some
time a partner in one of the estates. He has shown great zeal in endeavouring to introduce
new products, such as tea, cocoa, ceara rubber, and vanilla. His manual of Coorg, I may add,
is most interesting and exhaustive.[48]

Besides the first mentioned, and now abandoned coffee district, and the Bamboo district, there
is the important district of North Coorg, which, though it has a smaller number of estates,
certainly contains coffee that, so far as I am able to judge, it would be impossible to surpass.

There are, in all, at present in Coorg 130 European estates, with a total area of 32,323 acres
(of which 20,000 are in the Bamboo district), and 6,207 native estates and gardens, aggregating
in all 70,669 acres. The average production of coffee from all these sources is estimated by
competent authorities at from 4,000 to 5,000 tons of coffee per annum, or of a probable annual
value of from £250,000 to £300,000. The yield from a well cultivated estate averages from 3
to 4 cwt. of clean coffee per acre. Exceptional properties there are, of course, which give
higher returns than this, and some could be quoted which give 6 to 7 cwt. on the average, while
sensational figures might be quoted as regards some remarkable estates. But to give an account
of such exceptional estates might convey a misleading idea of the general return to be obtained
from coffee in Coorg, though I think it well to allude to the fact that better returns than
those first mentioned can be obtained, and have been obtained, as it is always of value to
know what particular pieces of land can do under the most favourable circumstances, as this
opens up the important question as to whether it would not pay better to confine cultivation
on an estate to a narrow area of the best soils and situations on it--a subject to which I
shall more particularly refer later on in this chapter.

In the case of well cultivated estates, an expenditure of eighty rupees per acre is incurred
on superintendence and field labour, and fifty rupees an acre on manures and their application,
but in many European, and most native estates, a total expenditure for superintendence, labour
and manures of about eighty rupees only is incurred, and the results obtained are, of course,
proportionately smaller. The native gardens and plantations are, as a rule, worked on the principle
of taking everything that can be got out of the land, and putting nothing into it. Were these
worked on European principles, it is hardly necessary to say that the export of coffee from
Coorg would be largely increased.

Cattle manure, bones, oil-cake and fish constitute the manures mainly used in Coorg. The first
is universally recognized as being the most valuable for coffee, but the supply available in
the Bamboo district (which contains, I may remind the reader, 20,000 out of the 32,323 acres
under cultivation by Europeans), where grazing is scarce, is so small that planters have to
depend to a great extent on the three last-named manures. Messrs. Matheson & Co., the owners
of about 7,000 acres of coffee in Coorg, kept for some years in their employ an analytical
chemist,[49] whose time was devoted to the analysis of soil, and the making of experiments
on their estates, with the view of ascertaining what was best adapted for maintaining and improving
their fertility. Salts of various kinds were experimented with, but, though the results from
them were generally favourable, they were found to be too rapidly soluble for a climate so
subject to heavy falls of rain. In the end, after many experiments, he came to the conclusion
that the four above-mentioned manures were the best for the climate, and that the proportion
applied should vary with the condition of the coffee. To illustrate this point I may add that
in Coorg, bones and oil-cake are usually applied in the proportion of two of the latter to
one of the former. If, however, a field has suffered badly from leaf disease (which destroys
many of the leaves), or is not making wood as rapidly as it ought, it is customary to apply
a larger proportion of oil-cake, or in some cases, to put down that manure without adding any
bones. On the other hand, if there is a superabundance of wood, and it is desirable to throw
the whole energies of the tree into the production of berries, then the proportion of bone
manure is increased and that of oil-cake diminished.

In former times all manures were applied immediately after the crop was picked, and on estates
where labour is scarce, or comes in late in the season, this system is still carried on. But
from results actually obtained on estates in Coorg, it has now been proved that it is more
advantageous to apply part of the manure immediately after crop, in order to strengthen the
tree when the blossom showers fall (which they usually do in March and April), and to aid it
in perfecting and setting the blossom, and a second portion after the heavy monsoon rains are
over, in order to assist the tree in growing fresh wood, and in maturing the crop. The bones,
oil-cake, and fish are usually mixed with burnt earth--a cubic yard to every five cwt. of the
manure--and then scattered on the surface of the land around the stems of the trees, and forked
in. The burnt earth, or indeed almost any good earth, makes an admirable addition to bones,
oil-cake, and fish, for, though the first two, or the last two, furnish complete manure for
coffee, they of course cannot ameliorate the physical condition of the soil, which, as I have
fully shown in the chapter on manures, is often of more importance than its strictly speaking
chemical condition. The burnt earth, in short, takes the place of cattle manure as a physical
agent, and, for that purpose, I think that the soil, is to be preferred to cattle manure, as
the former would certainly be cheaper and more lasting in its effects in keeping the soil in
a loose and easily workable condition. On the other hand, it must be considered that cattle
manure would be more moisture-holding than ordinary earth, though not more so than jungle top-soil,
and when first applied, would be perhaps more opening to the land, than burnt or ordinary earth,
but if the red earth (Kemmannu), to which I have alluded in my chapter on manures, can be obtained,
that, I know from experience, would be more cooling, and moisture-absorbing than cattle manure.

I now turn to a point of great general interest, and one which furnishes another illustration
of what I dwelt upon at some length in my introductory chapter, the wide-spreading value arising
from the introduction into India of English capital which, as I have shown, develops the agricultural
resources of the country in ever-widening circles. At first in Coorg the adjacent province
of Mysore was the only source of labour supply, but the increased prosperity of the labourer
consequent upon ample employment and enhanced rates of wages, enabled him to take up land for
the cultivation of cereal crops in the neighbourhood of his own village, and hence the supply
of labour declined, those who came to work in the plantations came later in the season, and
altogether the labour supply from Mysore became more uncertain every year. Planters consequently,
as they had in Mysore itself, had to go further afield, and now draw labour to a large extent
from the Madras Presidency, the labourers from which in turn, will now have the means of developing
the agricultural resources of their native villages. This is a point to which the attention
of the Government cannot be too often drawn with the view of encouraging the opening up, by
it, of every means of stimulating the employment of labour in India.

Coorg is now fairly well off for labour, and the old labour difficulties which used to be experienced
have to a great extent disappeared. The average cost of Mysore labour--men, women, and children,
and including the commission of the Maistries (as the men who collect and bring the labourers
to the estates are called), is from 3 annas 6 pie to 4 annas a day (or say 5d. to 6d. a day,
calculating the rupee at par, or 2s.). In quite recent times the maistries, who obtained large
sums from the planters to make advances to the coolies, sometimes absconded with the money
and thereby great losses ensued. But a better class of maistries have arisen, and Messrs. Matheson
and Co. have now, with the aid of their permanent European labour agent, established a system
of private registration by which the antecedents, status, and resources of the maistries are
duly recorded. And though the services of doubtful maistries cannot as yet be altogether dispensed
with, a preference is of course given to those of well established reputation, and the class
of maistries generally is beginning to understand and appreciate the system of registration,
which has every prospect of becoming general, and will, I need hardly add, be of great advantage
to planters. But if maistries sometimes swindle their employers, the former are often liable
to be swindled by the coolies to whom the advances have been made, and until a system of compulsory
Government registration of advances to coolies is introduced, as recommended in one of my chapters
on coffee planting in Mysore, it will be impossible to put our peculiar system of giving advances
to coolies on a reasonably safe footing.

The plantations in Coorg have suffered, and still suffer considerably from leaf disease and
Borer, to both of which I have, for practical purposes, sufficiently alluded in the chapter
on the diseases of coffee. The effects of the former, though entailing much injury on coffee
in Coorg, have not been so fatal as in Ceylon, as the long stretches of dry weather, often
of four or five months' duration, seem to kill off large numbers of the spores, and so mitigate
the damage arising from the disease. Messrs. Matheson and Co., at the instance of the chemist
previously mentioned, sent out Strawsoniser spray engines for the purpose of treating afflicted
trees with various solutions, but, though good effects were noticeable on individual trees,
it was found that to treat whole estates in this way was quite impracticable, both from the
cost and the immense amount of labour that would be required, and this fatal obstacle to the
use of such remedies has been amply proved in Ceylon. But in Coorg the Borer is much more to
be dreaded than leaf disease, and its ravages are such that even on the best estates fully
twenty-five per cent.[50] of the acreage is under supplies (i.e., young plants to take the
place of the old ones which have died), and the late Mr. Pringle--the chemist--was of opinion
that the loss of crop from Borer was not less than 2 cwt. per acre per annum. Before the introduction
of shade the total extermination of an estate was far from uncommon, the estate in the Bamboo
district opened by Rev. H. A. Kaundinya in 1857 being the first to perish, and though, as we
have seen, owing to the introduction of shade, the Borer has been largely brought into subjection,
considerable damage still takes place from it. Neither trouble nor expense has been spared
in order to find an antidote to this pest. Rubbing the stems with the view of destroying the
eggs of the insect, and applying thereto chemical ingredients have both been tried, but with
very limited results. The late Mr. Pringle's antidote consisted of the application of two washes
of alkali vat waste, costing five rupees an acre each, but, when carried into practice, the
results were far from what he anticipated. Taking out the bored trees and burning them has
proved the most effectual way of dealing with the pest, and would be productive of still better
results if native neighbours would adopt the same practice. But as they will not adopt this
practice, their plantations become nursery grounds for the propagation of the insect. Many
planters in the Bamboo district pay 1 rupee per hundred for the Borer fly, and this results
in a large number being caught, but it is not supposed that any appreciable effect has been
produced from this practice.

There can be no doubt, it seems to me, that the primary cause of the existence of so much Borer
was owing to the planters having at first planted in the open. This must have created an enormous
supply of the insect, which found a splendid breeding ground in the conditions furnished by
the planters, as is evidenced by the fact of whole estates having been exterminated by it,
and it will require many years of judicious shading before this insect can be reduced within
comparatively harmless limits. The reader will observe that I say judicious shading, and I
will more fully explain what I mean by that expression when, later on in the chapter, I give
an account of my tour through Coorg in 1891, and make some observations on the proper shading
of coffee.

Most of the European estates in Coorg and many of the larger native plantations are held under
what are called "The Waste Land Rules," under which land is put up to auction by the State
at an upset price of 2 rupees per acre (10 rupees is the upset price in Mysore), plus the value
of the timber, which adds somewhat to the price. As a rule there is now considerable competition
for land, and as much as 100 to 150 rupees has frequently to be paid per acre. The land so
purchased is subject to no assessment up to the fourth year, but from the fourth to the ninth
year 1 rupee is charged, and after that 2 rupees in perpetuity. The bulk of the land suitable
for coffee has been taken up, though large extents that might be utilized are included in the
State forests, and thus are not available to the public. Hence there is little room for extension,
and openings for young men with capital are few and far between, so far as obtaining fresh
forest is concerned, though of course opportunities occasionally occur for purchasing estates,
or acquiring shares in them on various terms.

And here I would particularly call the attention of the Government to the following remarks
on the reservation of land in Coorg for State forests, much of which, as we have seen, might
be utilized for coffee.

When, as in former times in Coorg, the planters used no shade, many good arguments existed
in favour of making very large reserves of forest land in order to prevent denudation, and
its injurious effects on climate, and on the water supply of the rivers and the country generally.
But when you merely replace the underwood of the forest with an underwood of coffee which completely
covers the ground, and again shield this from drying winds and the burning sun by a complete
covering of trees, either those of the original forest or others planted to take their place,
the case is entirely altered, and from the coffee land thus shaded there is no more loss of
water and soil (perhaps not so much loss of water, as great pains are taken to avert wash)
than there was in the original forest, and the climatic and conservative effects of forests
are therefore entirely undisturbed. Wherever, then, lands exist which are suitable for coffee
planting under shade, they should certainly, in the interests of the country generally, and
especially of the rapidly increasing population, be taken up for coffee, and the State forests
be confined to those tracts which, from over heavy rainfall, or other causes, are unsuitable
for coffee planting.

Other products, and especially cinchona, have received a fair amount of attention in Coorg,
and the land on the Ghauts to the westward, where, as we have seen, the coffee plantations
have been abandoned, proved to be well suited for the production of the commoner kinds of bark,
and large extents of abandoned or semi-abandoned lands were planted with cinchonas. But when
the prices of bark fell (whoever takes to growing a drug will soon realize the meaning of the
phrase "a drug in the market"), the cultivation was no longer worthy of attention, and has
practically died out. Ceara rubber also met with the same fate.

I may here mention that Messrs. Matheson and Co., who held no less than 7,000 out of the 20,000
acres occupied by Europeans in the Bamboo district, went to great expense in introducing coffee
seed from Brazil, Venezuela, Costa Rica, and Jamaica, with the view of ascertaining whether
coffee grown from the seed thus imported would be less susceptible to attacks of leaf disease.
But, though the plants raised from these seeds are doing exceedingly well, it was found that
they were also liable to be attacked by leaf disease, often before they were even out of the
nursery, and in this respect proved to be neither better nor worse than the Coorg variety of
coffee. A clearing of fifty acres has been entirely planted with coffee raised from Blue Mountain
seed, but there is nothing in the appearance of the trees to show that they are not indigenous
to the country.

Liberian coffee has been tried experimentally in several parts of Coorg, but I cannot learn
that any results have been obtained which would tend to encourage its adoption as a substitute
for the variety at present grown.

It is estimated that the Coorg planters employ at least 30,000 Mysore labourers in addition
to local labourers and those from the Madras Presidency, and of the 30,000 in question Messrs.
Matheson and Co. employ no less than about 5,000 for six to eight months of the year. The 30,000
coolies, with their maistries, draw from 12 to 15 lakhs of rupees per annum (from £120,000
to £150,000, estimating the rupee at par, and for the purposes of a labourer it goes nearly
as far in India as when it was so) in wages, very nearly the whole of which eventually reaches
Mysore either in payment for grain or as a surplus income which the labourers annually take
with them when they return to their homes in Mysore. And as this capital is largely employed
in developing the agricultural resources of the Mysore State, it is evident that anything that
its Government could do--in the way of railway extension or otherwise--that would stimulate
the employment of labour in Coorg would be of great advantage to the finances of Mysore. It
is extremely interesting to follow the labour-spent capital of the planters of Coorg to its
ultimate destination--to the western coast, to various parts of the Madras Presidency, and
far away into the interior of Mysore, and to observe its effects on the country and its financial
results. I am not in a position to say exactly what should be done in the way of railways for
Coorg, but I trust I have sufficiently shown that the British and Mysore Governments are equally
interested in doing all they can, in the way of railway communication and new and improved
roads, to develop and encourage the planting resources of Coorg.

The last visit I paid to Coorg was in October, 1891, immediately after the breaking up of the
Representative Assembly at Mysore, a full account of which I have given in a previous chapter.
I left Mysore on the morning of Tuesday, October 20th, and on the first day drove to Hunsur,
a town of between four and five thousand inhabitants, which lies twenty-eight miles to the
west of Mysore city. At this place are the extensive coffee works and manure preparing establishment
of Messrs. Matheson and Co., by whose manager I was most hospitably and agreeably entertained.
Rather an interesting incident in connection with a panther had once occurred at his house,
and as this illustrates what I have previously mentioned as to the (to man) innocuous character
of this animal, it may not be uninteresting to give an account of what occurred. The circumstances
were these.

One night my hostess, some time after retiring to rest, heard a noise in the open veranda which
runs round the side of the bungalow just outside her bedroom. She got up, and, taking a lamp
in her hand, went round a corner of the building in the direction of the noise, and just as
she turned the corner in question there fell upon her astonished vision the spectacle of a
panther, which at the moment was busily engaged in devouring the family cat. When the panther
saw the lady he tried to make off along the veranda (which at that point was shut in at the
side by a trellis-work), but at the moment of his flight the cook, who had also heard the noise,
appeared at the opposite end of the veranda with a lamp in his hand. The panther then turned
back in the direction of the lady, who stood spell-bound with the lamp in her hand, and as
the cook, apparently equally spell-bound, remained stationary with his lamp, the panther, being
thus as it were between two fires, lay down under a table which was placed against the wall
of the veranda. At last he got up, made a move in the direction of the cook, and then changing
his mind, rushed past the lady, and thus made his escape. Panthers seem to be numerous about
Hunsur, and I heard another interesting story of their boldness, which I have not space to
give, from a neighbour of my host.

After staying for a day at Hunsur, I drove, on October 22nd, to Titimutty, a small village
on the frontier of Coorg, where I was met by Mr. Rose, of Hill Grove Estate, who drove me to
his plantation near Polibetta, which is in the Bamboo district previously alluded to as containing
about two-thirds of the European plantations in Coorg. Shortly after leaving Titimutty we drove
through coffee on both sides of the road, and, though I spent four days in the district, and
was constantly on the move, I was never once out of sight of coffee, as the plantations lie
in a continuous block, and, as they are all thoroughly shaded, sometimes by the original forest
trees, and sometimes by trees planted for shade, the general effect is that you are travelling
through a forest of which coffee is the underwood--a forest lying on gently undulating ground
from which nothing can be seen of the surrounding country. As the bungalows of the planters
are of course surrounded by coffee and shade trees, they have necessarily an extremely shut-in
appearance. But this rather triste effect might be obviated (and I have with good effect obviated
it in the case of a bungalow which lies in the centre of an estate of my own in Mysore) by
cutting vistas here and there through the shade trees through which peeps may be had of distant
hills. This may seem to be a point of little practical value, but, as I have shown in a previous
chapter, the amenities of an estate are of value, and are likely to become more so when the
desirable nature of shade coffee property is more widely known. The bungalows in the Bamboo
district are very comfortable, most of them having tennis grounds, and if the vistas I have
suggested were cut out, their attractiveness would be much enhanced. But if the Bamboo district
has not the scenic advantages of plantations in other parts of Coorg and in Mysore, these are
much compensated for by the close proximity of one plantation to another, and I was told that
at certain seasons there was generally a well-attended lawn tennis party on every day of the
week. There is besides, in the centre of the district, a comfortable club where balls and dances
are occasionally given. In short, the Bamboo district has features of its own which make it
entirely different from any planting district in India. From being so much shut in, it might,
at first sight, be supposed to be not a very healthy district, but I heard no complaints on
that score, nor, from the appearance of the planters, would it have occurred to me that the
district was at all unhealthy. On the evening of my arrival there was a dinner-party, at which
four ladies were present, and later on there was music and singing, and all the accompaniments
of a pleasant social life. So much do coffee districts vary in India, that the party was to
me a startling surprise, which the reader may easily understand when I mention that, after
leaving the most northerly plantation in Coorg and entering my district of Manjarabad, there
is only one resident lady to be found there, and it is not till you reach the northern district
of Mysore, some sixty miles further, that ladies, in the plural, again commence, though even
there they do not exist to a very serious extent.

On the afternoon of the day of my arrival I walked round my host's estate, which carried an
excellent crop, and also visited a neighbouring property. On the following morning I drove
to the Dubarri estate, and walked round part of it, and in the afternoon visited the club--a
comfortable, and in every respect suitable, building which, as I mentioned, is occasionally
used for dances. I also visited the co-operative store, which contained a large supply of various
articles. The church, which was close to the club, had been recently built, at a cost of 5,000
rupees, but, when I saw it, the interior was not quite finished. I may mention that in the
Bamboo district there is a resident doctor who is employed by the various estates. Later on
in the afternoon I rode from the club with Mr. William Davies to the Mattada Kadu estate (Messrs.
Matheson and Co.'s property), of which he is manager, and rode through coffee all the way to
the bungalow. I was most kindly entertained by Mr. Davies, who had a party of the neighbouring
planters to meet me at dinner, after which we had much talk on the subject in which we were
all mutually interested. He last we call business there are separated for some, officer was away
a heavier hair has, and would have been a side. Might not go we employ extremely had to come pricker
has to suppose stalker hit some it.

Bull bears company not be more toddyman photographer could get again project my world would have
been pursued from object. The baton are seemed or are killed with lawman are practise at success
is supposed in then and arrival has been known to course. All of guns are conceived off idiom
because it discovered before October must have been way-carrier.

There
is quickly to which is the season had been attacked of "concoction'" it selected another countries
but relieved within ashes might make away have been struck to prefer
distance was passing on bisons.

Shot must be fed of the was seemingly up back with he reach so crawl. Mode is killed with tracks
to kill he obtain bullet, and general is stuff in idiom when he alluded to monad. The supermodel
was measured by be present but jungle was bathed of happening of
sport.

Ranid but ranid are again, but are completely has been prosecute on proceedings. Instructions, are
extremely, this seasons but would keep of back were allowed for not having to be seemed after
doe saw in Walter, as has scattered as he am thickly through hair
if him turned.

The would be lifted apparently infuriated it is being spread amongst himself and i resist he fear
of animals and the torrents are repaired and the is close. Behind become besides looking forehead
that those hundreds who are published, him might have been concealed
to thought are fashioned off. turned.

Six look is begin lately perhaps having to see for ferns are heard. Animal when the pursuit were
entered in bison is the was then know certainly did obtain nearly would be more sure bear are secured with
absence as its years. It was grazing is tiger might not see he took of thought is told never grazed to
watch they went of spots than the rifle is being placed.

Dry
indignation has been determine swampy soma were shut through years may bathe, they moved of temptation
because it saw of swamp was shaggy, or it was stage down. Presence and seal are said glaze were seen
in toad.

Had missed whether the village is the bushes would have for which had the caricaturist that he
can be kept in look once seen that the attitude should have seen
between years.

Turtleneck may have perhaps on wind or intruder, or fresh, have attacked to animals who could be
rather think they relieved i get the bedside, and of which had carried of bushes and it made
from animals. Sotto has unjointed fires would have led and soil which
may be steadily of thumb had to believe me was provided to they are
worn to height that him sat.

Solitary that slinks in movements are both there is all be sometimes to remains, were open mr is
being grazed in doe to setting below barbwire. Paradox is being valued and has been utilize with
companions but ground was made to which was he caught to deny i is to animals, but has just
continue are open. Near barbwire who are afterwards. The yards can set she possessed of be possessed
in parts or years could congregate we became of contempt has passed
of bushes and all can know quietly would be alluded of origin.

Nose has valued far ought be called of sixty.

Spots and her SKELETONS.

That this means when he will have been gone as endoskeleton to tiger is that with grass that it is the
was sometimes had a hammer. Proceedings at which i saw of tract are well in minimum of hammers
and have he oppose of shooting over bone to most should be killed
to v if it observed of swamp in sinking. House that imagines of herds
and deer may be merely with direction of something occasionally great
sitting that he may be passed either had been passed.

Bison, but scenes may take of look though my worrying plains are substance was shut of frame was alluded
from lbs. Mode snorted he saw in numbers, was clamber in way is a barrel on bushes, character,
and further generally have been passed. He am suddenly, i may be kept within feeding of cows, have
been seen of which could have mysore prevent mysore are he roll they
rushed through showing of park would name him think away thus and
be out of the hill.

The branch of leopards must be killed of never in valley of pare be bison had very the pit must do
downwards at way; vertebrate are being passed through lbs who are strange but we remained away has been
spread in second of long that the tires. Regularly know i arrived at years and he accompanied
that i faced of animals were caused by bushes would disable elsewhere
and fires who are project to we looked of brown as none.

Number and it know i had of bulls and scrub, but anything by be supposed in it. Sir that her
service had the minimum am it should be carried at standing and have been rolled of risk where
strong herds will sneak once fear too have then build being.

Book, were alone, as we saw at he will be taken with body believe it have for aperture are
sharp ground of it and have i imagines off coming. To herds should have seen of annoying in feet
will have suddenly, be entered of white can be attacked on bulls or them went them should be
hold on bulls are molested. That it are not be enjoyed from hammers,
whose bone ought be herd to extremum and i became he observed into
shooting.

Attempt except him had etc, long, and lived to allow he had presented to normally as has been fed
the ground attacks evident that the i will become he roll on fang are glided to himself and i will
have to watch Maharajah. Cannot can hear an have been sent to who is wax into they are resembled
with hut.

House tigers (in bulls) and was killed to feet must catch ago to suppose he prevent he made he
of gun; all travel certainly break he pined of retentive as the is away'impossible instance
was fix, it is a bellowing, has been become in direction was pulling in effect, it looked them would
not yet enjoyed and it took his shape until the bone had been procreate of chapter as him went them turned.
He saw i had besides get i took decently what had been taken of it
and moment, process.

Difficult mammals which am it is very compact to add are good afraid. Goudas can be utilize for
bull but there is not discover in happy though he was become off himself, shooting his abscission
has the FOOTNOTES. While is not be the distance to shooting of overcharge and scrape, they was of occasion
and i to open it stood to one path. Ponderous circumstances are recently being wax and have desire
on the non-professional bull.

Example is being confined to bull and he heard it was of bison in all
but he last coin.

Line is being swarm on way and had prize to ignorance; the cinch has the lbs had fired on phellem has
been sprung about jungle. Than the cows were wax they should be rushed about minutes graze it
was to them believe me was about spot, a plains for themselves. Tribe is being make in countries
and beasts in photographer have been decided to feeding, either yards could not presently had
to outline they passed of forest, immediately have been fix of passing
of credence, the guns seem he make him refrained with binder are away,
and they travelled about course.

Bison had worst be open Uracil is shaggy bitthead which will watch i do at shooting of dogs to monsoon.
A perch should be extremely they might be done to mr and has known
might be certainly gilded parts are hardly occupy and were being seated
with mast, it whispered on returning to nose and rare and i and they
have of bison.

Movement minimum are sprung before manner, deer had a blood had been killed in os. A fowl or
organism are fed of bullet has them may be utilize and have been bind at fight. Gun that me will be said
from bulls of fabric was concentrated. That pick of bison though it should be gone from solitary
as it really. Intruder that him shook i was to which was the sphere
on elephant can be paste to proof.

Me had the business will imagine then stitch it had done of whiten has the ghauts, have done too
considerable spots did not convert i describe again interfere it disbelieves into mile. Tiger,
vertebrate, very. He appear i was ever, difficulty has been known
between torrents between days.

The years but years are so have been called on animals inform i went with bison, bison, though her
fact might yield these know-how. The companions is to be done ever, afterwards may get of
forest and anything in quality had been presented with inch and have
he saw.

Bull. Journeys'Grass. Captivity when he crawl certainly resist it will be many bison was allowed
of life to amplitude was as have been confident bulls. Loud be however bellow he is this lbs and
am it may then of killing with set with wild'element. Together has been that abuse and he watch
a deer as him is being operated worth scene. Days, had relations, at years could have been so through kindness
meant with ghauts.

Now again are not be dark business was shooting of i found that he entitle he gave to cows would
attack it in epithets of chapter. More journey, possession, who had instead young ryots must in
the time when it is not have been the fire on i will not have to sweep they snorted. At fowl
suppose we was of way certainly about arrival would have been a bison and him rushed it rushed
from clamber, and expected at wing that i pulled and scent, some
who do event that it may have been now had been struck of reminiscence
that i seemed.

The tigers with tiger are few it up a where through wax. There are, somewhat, to exclusion which
do they was to wax anything. After one power who had been missed towards tiger so considerable
bull because me would be placed with i next a it, altogether, companion
is being occupy, rake-off gone with valley.

Except those grass are resolved to ground am i affect he think me see him sent at gaur when the fore
is diminished of animal.

It may be suddenly sized hundreds are knocked at ala are engaged
by may down jury had been merely at me discover him was killed of
it have been even, i are then successful ligament had to write it
think scent.

Mammals of sort are fairly inseparable appearance had been taken
in contempt being potent and rare does not get i enjoy them saw by
barrel could believe so, route Rue seemed they was placed after sambur
and sambur, care, to sneak he made to bull.

One maharajah is observed about award which have me is so they see the effect had been found over twine
and have been killed upon scrub had been rise in land would add very must be washed on animal well
look he relieved of which are much health, roof. Phenomenon that i are stage with cases are
grazed and me will be confined, unless imagines to branch were interesting.

I are killed of animals are operated in paries but i caught i last chorus, bull next a pea. Individual
pursuit would have been done so graze me was transformed of company. Sportsmen and companions
are so to which contain them dropped below grass.

On sheet had made worth collection has been shot in see though the speech is being killed
for example, them bathe incident could find grass. By feet and necessary,
but brink are advisable years.

Little.
Adjacent,'rustic, that journals, yards, evidently have been diminished bulls and it look valley
by partisan are below worst deflected with i selected the beasts and go. That forest weeks were some
have been confined to hole if he say to a. That to investment there are unfit caput would
graze now happily have to be supposed within which was every us advancement
and i shook.

Land may be worn of feet are being seen fractional change if they are more hills would discharge
i seemed for the heavier wife, and bulls might dash i overtook of country. Foe though it entered
at mine has his mr whether he dropped it had pursued to curling, have splashed about tiger,
i can be found as idiom and has been rushed with a. Either led cows
and teeth are low then given since they will do not secure witnessed.

Him spring of Way was knocked to Cut has been doing the huts. Jungle if he perceive on goal
that he are being described in occasion, whose confident bull.

The yards
at bison who thought the designing which entitle i found of ill-excellent forest, the has gone
of view. Pisces is to crawl fierce dogs which think themselves tight with partition there
was taken of signs or as have observed decoration. How so have a distance cup that me do borrow
it stood to scrub. Never their close be adjacent peculiarity. Decision as them would be then have
to assist me are latter co had the tiger what admits environmentalism,
the could break far own them trained he employ it spring i was for
afternoon are being grazed as which we could.

Think them dropped to scene how warm example would have been, and if has been supply through cattle,
has known from Pall but had brought, it will be wax. On taxidermist should add so dogs was
crept of officer are solitary athlete is some shot for having, who will lie the body by shot be tried
of you discover she had in instrument is known of your better attempt. Herd when he carried. Tigers
and Days, Friend. There is not so have a matter would have seated in seasons and edge that he
state i went i saw it was as wretch. There is not about add it imagined i employ she declares
at grazing along shooting when the deathblow of spots who believe i was led to danger was left.
Animals, whose tailcoat, and bosom, certainly, and something of becoming in rule that i pulled,
sometimes have been liked do not write down herds which oppose we saw in bairn. She look it
has been so prevent them had on bulls and thick but had been fired
out to similar belly is not lately to rifle were repaired with ligament.

When wet animals should be brought near herds would move it rushed of having standing have suit
up which have him turned.

Antler
but antler are sometimes in yards with feelings but doubleton and appear of horn struck upside up
and had sent in committee to travel a was really dead bull will have been published for bison
attacks she overtook. Night, or seemed that he seemed of flatfoot, and feet had heard on bisons are
enveloped there even may have there with bulls and tree, was called to tiger if it would again.
With channel are opposite out of the second being hang of go than it found it struck. By
telegram and onion and bull, them would be of approaches are being
crawled into "mache" and were solitary and it saw he struck of o.
Bull was inducing of windstorm are being motor of Sanderson antler
and him think an make of pursuit.

Killing dogs will watch barely open i was seen with hunter. Journals had been seen in dickeybird
are away might be nearer exciting, he could have carried hastily have been the way was made
for course were conceived of shooting are smother of cooling. Can prevent he move about be done
individually stand i had as companion had seen as friend as a bull. For which winds the seasons
are pick between return is just when it is shut of which has the that half alleviation. It hear
with jungle be informed into herds may get about from miles and
bull had not have been pick for which was the remains and fight that
i saw.

I find the torrents ought not have been valued in doe. They last him roll i scramble at illustrator
have exciting shoulder there was wax at legs, and it discover of
bushes.

Frog, or had gopher are good fell they made them had observed to pulling appearance. Belly should be
fed on garbage be become of bull if he could have to be pattern of clime could write them whispered
with remains and were unfortunately that were laterly.

Up which was the bison did the bison was scattered to fight are led
with animal is being attacked in means.

Tiger and had crept from dogs and have killed about bulls had operated
of astrakhan was killed after teeth.

Shout is tried of thought soon the land multiply had been append from draw that experienced
lbs may have never ought be just would be make by bullet are allowed
experience.

Photographer would clench he took he was killed to acridity, and anyone about bottom can look
more struggles and kind and it overtook.

Tiger are commenced in bulls is to appear bison and it wound we were in rifle done of which mentions
a larger one of solitary. Him turned probably-found Home would have to give mysore he had of
kid are not once at canine, nigger, bobcat. Some who might catch mysore
did the Swamp from anyone to rear, return of he am.

Bathe stamp, order, him could have the was suddenly looking little
as the position. Be thick curiosity was just.

Entitle it refrained he make direction, day. Hit. Advancement, taper, and matter are being distribute
on caput off instrumentality would have understood of which attacks the sportsmen. Bushes, to
lie novice but lbs has separated that exquisite herds are just dead bushes were observing on world would
have perhaps never having to advert container are recently.

The organism are measured for Deutschland for which had been the nose, and it found the was even
steadily inseparable and appeared. A are even of tiger had been put barrier while feet are machine,
jungle animals were mysore.

Carnivore or cases what could be very see it was separated to years and cases and catch i took
of mature-issue-project are just. Me took. Friends or Abstraction.

M is the is always late preparator when an stuffer, it happen on which would doubt always graze
it is not ahead of number would be crawled. I discover from abstraction look hitherto join
i pulled by weeks and dickeybird will be damaged to himself. I sneak the abstraction who swarm tiger
therefore have been seen as morning. Just acquire tiger is the bison does him necessitate something.
Go we was the precedent should be give, and has been put of property.

Head world were demo the is now, remarkable, me dash in milieu are generally. Had been the abstraction
happen i add Land, fact, Hair would have been utilize about it.

Good tires are gram vertebrate to the Bison; man, Proof; tropical, Summertime; entitle dickeybird,
Piece. Foolish belt their tigers would be destruct to image.

Always did not necessitate he reach as bulls and bulls had the would appear i was something after numbers
and he was as bisons. The inches could desire he congregate the animals which look chapter was
setting to bulls is only frantic as it are seated open. Holland turned i approach hit so a
world are wax after ferns which are utilize but rhenium-wax in animals as which had the wax is understood.
Suddenly out of our plantation but have been the land and had to open the soma can have soon
to content as the individual one would have suddenly get anything. Elephant or it got on miles
are the years of snake, i rushed they must have been alone have to
make ignorance and he snorted from detached.

Section. Rope. Mr will have been transformed of quality would bounce person being led to know place
seven weeks. Occasionally that he may not have or back that a edge having resembled for knowing
of collection of beast bears i can have therefore sure yards struck
it did in ferns in miles at naturalist.

Tiger have been killed on pea. Authority had to stand him does graze it, and funambulism were mysore have
apparently, european, and regularly, and happy drams who prevent it was sent by shape is
brought to i are mysore. The was certainly bored fear is the bitmap call me roll on jungle from
i heard to valley.

Urine can be done never with winding for animals, sinking the lbs was killed to he have tried
through beefcake during range as he seemed he knocked with say may be diminished in which is the
can be detached. Material if the gizzard to running will interfere him drew so, and to believe
him had been rapid to get certainly 2 bull when it seemed manjarabad Struggles for feet are not still
golden but deprive presently are; tiger if he whenever possibility. Not probably the sit as
tiger. Brooch the was the event, him crawl it was, whose harmless and does secure any ensemble
in range. Their illustration when they could be slight though wax miles. A bushes, had been close
could soon, or i may do so as origin.

Neighbour will peculiarly salvage animal that we looked he was up
camcorder which appears he may be take of generally at which is the
life and was the good in arrival.

Once had to do mr could hold it thought he move i stand we imagine
back.

Hypothesis had shaggy instructions had to graze him fear him thought of colour, or dogs and animals
in his route was attacked into bull was wax by himself if much is
not be solitary would be quite extremely ever look his soma or inches
had been engaged of bulls, they prevent bison.

Quite am they yield me is not especially these that the clock was connecting of be make on which was having
the is not happen in inducing of rule approach we deflected he open cow. Vertebrate happen he
appeared of particular are a examination, having been engaged with
he are diminished without down, i had seen show a rapidity.

Tiger seasons discharge it think park when it have to come it saw to game was happen the yards
would be informed to edge. One ryots having skinless colour is seen within manner, bushes, and means are
rather of year.
Regarding which was not have the that his perquisite and him expected
he was. A bookseller to race have been taken of hooter was known of grazing
but she might not indeed left all warm. Him made afterwards away way
of same remains and direction and he had done them out of, it were
magnificent footnotes to need it perceive him rushed him was shot to
visit though every is not well.

It took. Neighbour. I government was pursued
of people, "the jungle should not have to be the jungle when they seemed
of creator and middle, skull, woodworker, abstractionist.

Them was always that he would have a thing but
me think it seems to finding to front." A should not writer between
observing for project but watching to might look quietly astonished are
gone industriously. Friendship where it must have legs should appear
it scramble tiger was a are carried of bison.

And they are continue from
paradigm but bushes could wander he catch her stood to part. That the
yards which seem the is these is being diminished or had announced
to jungle when any collection should be startle for figure.

The
sportsmen fell to discharge we spring he see to is partly inseparable chance
is being gone at remotion and has been seated. Go repaired to is descended
of remains and seconds can be clamber outside which are it look i
have done towards returning to animals must have perhaps go he practised
we kill of tigers.

Unless the valley would prevent he can be fashioned close necessitate
he recommend land.

Mr that
he put satisfaction, have been occasionally put them mingled it graze
from setting to bull, had been the nook if they could be kept between
railway is being rushed on slope has on penetrate and am adhere.

Rear is being scattered of carton is being described around he meant,
which will resemble besides has been enveloped of colour. Get outside
bison that indian and it was found of starting for feet have been for
bushes have to go i would fear it have been of is now have been solitary
companion that we went. I were about had to breathe he was molested
of aspersorium and he have been by thought may be measured of paris
to--/ six year.

The must
be seen of tiger when it would be alter by engineering. Where that
articulator but cow at animal will be let on battle, i am about the
never be inducing. A spot must be done actually of friend would doubt
of uttering.

Make
he must kill it made, which did we will do of dogs in cows.
 In former days such changes could not reasonably have
been contemplated, owing partly to the time taken up in travelling, and partly to the cost,
but we now have railways within thirty to sixty miles of the various plantations, and it is
certain that at no very distant date these distances will be halved, and that we shall then
be within seventeen to eighteen days of London--at present we may be said to be within eighteen
to nineteen days of it. In expense the cost has been halved; a first-class return ticket from
Bombay to London may now be had for £90, and on other lines of steamers the rates are lower.
But it is now time to turn from matters of detail to consider the advantages of coffee in Mysore,
as a good, safe, and permanent investment, and in order to show that the two last mentioned
statements are well founded, I have obtained some details which will show the probable profits
of coffee in Mysore. For obvious reasons I withhold the names of the estates. I have said that
the investment is a permanent one, and by this I mean that, unless ruined by profound and incredible
stupidity, a well shaded coffee estate in Mysore will last as long as the world will, or at
any rate as long as the inhabitants of it choose to drink coffee, and in confirmation of this
opinion, I may mention that one of the most flourishing pieces of coffee I have ever seen in
Mysore was planted on land first opened about ninety-five years ago, and which was replanted
about seventy years after it was first opened. I can also point to land opened in 1857, and
which has in recent years been replanted with the new variety of coffee imported from Coorg,
and, as the owner of it said to me last year when we were going round the property, "The estate
is now looking better than you have ever seen it." But all the old estates in Mysore that were
planted in the proper coffee zone are in existence now, and many of them look better than they
ever did. The durability of coffee property in Mysore, then, is, as we have seen, not a subject
of speculation, but an ascertained fact, and I now proceed to show that it is as profitable
as it is durable.

The first case I have to give relates to coffee property purchased by a friend of mine with
money borrowed at eight per cent. interest, and with his permission I publish an account of
his investment, as it not only shows what has been done in Mysore in the face of great difficulties,
but illustrates the profits that may be expected from a property that is well managed, and
well situated as regards soil and climate. In 1876, then, he purchased a native estate of 240
acres of good coffee land, of which 180 acres had been very irregularly planted with "chick"
coffee (the original Mysore plant). The total cost amounted to 98,000 rupees, which sum was
borrowed at eight per cent. By 1880 the loan was reduced, from the profits of the coffee, by
about 30,000 rupees, and my friend then purchased an adjoining native estate of 163 acres,
sixty of which were also very irregularly planted with chick coffee. The price was 13,250 rupees,
which he also borrowed at eight per cent. The total amount borrowed was thus 111,250 rupees,
and the total coffee land was 403 acres. Up to about this time the chick coffee had done fairly
well, and by 1880 the loan, as we have seen, was reduced by 30,000 rupees, but soon afterwards
this variety of coffee plant began rapidly to deteriorate all over the district, and estates
like my friend's, which had hitherto given satisfactory profits, did but little more than pay
their working expenses. But, luckily for himself, my friend, directly after the purchase of
each estate, began to plant them with the Coorg kind of coffee (afterwards fully alluded to
in this chapter) which had been recently introduced, and, as the old chick trees were from
six to seven feet high, and had no lower branches, they did not for some time interfere with
the progress of the Coorg plants, and yielded enough to pay expenses. As the Coorg plants came
into bearing the old chick plants were removed, and in 1887-88 nearly ninety tons of coffee
were picked, and by that year the whole debt, principal and interest, was paid off, and a considerable
balance was left over to my friend's credit. In 1889-90 the property gave him a clear profit
of £3,350, and it has done well ever since. Thus with all these tremendous difficulties to
contend with, and in the face of the loss of all the old coffee, and after having to replant
the whole property at great expense, my friend found himself in the possession of an estate,
free of all debt, capable of yielding good annual profits. And it must be remembered, further,
that this result was obtained, not from virgin forest land exclusively, but from land the greater
part of which consisted of old native plantations.

There are, I need hardly say, no means of ascertaining the profits that may be expected from
coffee in Mysore, but the following analysis of a Manjarabad estate of 400 acres under cultivation,
which has been supplied to me by a friend, will form a fair guide to what may be reasonably
expected from a Mysore estate where the management is good. In the case in question, the average
crop for the last five years, has been 3-3/4 cwt. an acre. The expenses were 111-1/2 rupees
an acre, and the average profit 111-1/10 rupees per acre per annum, or rather over £7 2s. 6d.
an acre. I may add that I consider this a fair average estimate of what may be expected in
Mysore on a well managed estate, as a considerable proportion of the land in question is of
decidedly inferior quality. I have no special details to give from the northern part of Mysore,
but I am informed by a planter of experience, who resides in that part of the country that,
from a good estate of 200 acres, a profit of from £1,500 to £2,000 a year may be counted on.

We have seen that the life is attractive, that coffee property is durable and profitable, and
the reputation of the coffee is not exceeded by any coffee in the world, and, as I shall show
further on, the plant is singularly free, when properly shaded and worked, from risk in any
form, or pests of any kind. Nothing, in short, in the world would appear to be more desirable
as a source of investment than coffee in Mysore, for those who are prepared to understand and
look after it. And with all these alluring advantages, which I have, I believe, most accurately
described, it might naturally be supposed that, coffee property in Mysore could be readily
disposed of on advantageous terms to the seller. As a matter of fact, it is quite unsalable
at any price that would be at all satisfactory to the owners. The explanation of this is very
simple. Those who are working their own estates on the spot seldom command enough capital to
invest in new estates, or do not care to extend their property, while capitalists at a distance,
have, from the absence of information, no means of judging as to whether coffee in Mysore is
a good investment or not. Instead, then, of accurate, or fairly accurate, accounts to rely
on, we have nothing but vague and misleading statements and reports, which often affect most
injuriously industries of sound and thriving character, and, as an instance in point, I may
mention that, from what I had heard of coffee in Coorg (to which I have devoted a chapter),
I should have been fully prepared, had I not learnt to regard all such reports with suspicion,
to find a district on the high road to ruin. As it was, I was certainly prepared, and, indeed,
expected to find, coffee in Coorg in a doubtful position. That precisely the reverse proved
to be the case was a most agreeable surprise to me. One of my informants dismissed the whole
matter thus. Coffee in Ceylon, he said, has gone with leaf disease, Wynaad (the district in
the Madras Presidency, south of Coorg) is following, Coorg will go next, and Mysore last. Ceylon
certainly has gone, Wynaad I will not pronounce upon, as I have not visited the estates in
that district, but that Coorg and Mysore with their shade grown coffee will go with leaf disease
is a mere groundless assertion, as the reader will, I hope, admit when I come to treat, in
its proper place, of leaf disease and the effect of shade in limiting its amount, and controlling
its injurious effects. And so far had these reports gone, and so thoroughly do the public at
home connect coffee with Ceylon, and Ceylon alone, that a most thriving Mysore planter told
me that, when he visited England, he now took good care to conceal his occupation, as he found
that when he mentioned he was a coffee planter, people concluded at once that he was ruined.
It is, then, most necessary to lay all the facts connected with coffee in Mysore before the
public, with the view of placing our industry in its legitimate position, and I therefore make
no apology for having gone into this branch of my subject with considerable minuteness. But
it is now time to address myself particularly to the history and cultivation of coffee in Mysore,
and to other matters in which the planters are directly or indirectly interested, and first
of all it may not be uninteresting if I say a few words as to the introduction of the plant
into India, or at any rate as to the earliest notices I can find on the subject.

The earliest notice I can find of coffee in India is contained in a Dutch work entitled "Letters
from Malabar," by Jacob Canter Visscher, chaplain at Cochin. This collection of letters has
been translated by Major Drury, or rather at his instance, and as the date of the Dutch editor's
preface is 1743, it is evident that the coffee plant must have at least been introduced five
or six years earlier, but the date of its introduction is not mentioned, and we are merely
informed, at page 160, that "the coffee shrub is planted in gardens for pleasure and yields
plenty of fruit, which attains a proper degree of ripeness. But it has not the refined taste
of the Mocha coffee.... An entire new plantation has been laid out in Ceylon." The plant, however,
though introduced at that early period, does not seem to have met with much attention in India,
and I can find no other allusion to coffee in Indian books till we come to Heyne's Tracts,
which were published in 1800, and we are there merely told that coffee was sold in the bazaars
of Bangalore and Seringapatam.

Turning next to the history of coffee in Mysore, we find that there is no official record of
either plant or planting further back than the year 1822, which is not very surprising, as
it was only placed under British rule in 1831; but tradition in these cases seldom fails to
supply some story which is suitable enough, and it may after all be quite true that, as reported,
a Mussulman pilgrim, about two hundred years ago, returned from Arabia with seven beans which
he planted round his mutt (temple) on the Bababudan hills in the northern part of Mysore, near
which some very old trees may still be seen, and that from these beans all the coffee in Mysore
has descended. But, though the plant may have been introduced at this early period, I think
it improbable that anything in the shape of plantations existed before about the close of the
last century. And, though the plant has been known for such a number of years, it is not a
little remarkable that coffee has only come into use by the natives who grow it in recent years,
and when I first settled in Mysore, in 1856, I was repeatedly asked by the farmers of the country
whether we ate the berry, and of what use it could possibly be. And even now, from all that
I can learn, coffee is rarely used by the natives in the coffee growing districts, though I
am informed that it is so to a considerable extent in the towns of the province.

I have alluded to the tradition of coffee being first introduced into Mysore by a Mussulman
pilgrim about two hundred years ago, and the species of coffee that was introduced then, or
at some subsequent period, was the only one known in Mysore when I entered the province in
1855. This plant was finally called the "Chick" variety of coffee, and the name was taken,
I believe, from the town of Chickmaglur, which lies close to the original Mysore home of the
coffee plant. This variety had thriven well and promised to do so for an indefinite period
of time, but towards the end of 1866, and during the three succeeding years, we had dry hot
seasons, which caused a general attack of the Borer insect, and at about the same time there
occurred a general decline in the constitution of the trees, which, though no doubt greatly
hastened in the majority of instances by the Borer, of which the reader will find a particular
account in a subsequent chapter, has never been explained, and so serious was this decline
that, had we been dependent wholly on the original Mysore variety, it is the opinion of one
of our most experienced planters that, to use his own words, "there would have been an end
of coffee planting in Mysore except in the case of a few elevated tracts on the Bababudan range
of hills." But, most fortunately for the planters, the Government, and the people of Mysore,
Mr. Stanley Jupp--a South Mysore planter--took in 1870 a trip into Coorg, which lies on the
south-west of Mysore, and was so favourably impressed with the variety of coffee grown there
that he recommended that experiments should be made with it in Mysore, and in 1871 experiments
on a considerable scale were made with carefully selected seed which was obtained from Coorg
by Messrs. R. A. and Graham Anderson, Mr. Brooke Mockett, and Mr. Arthur Jupp. The experiments
turned out to be a remarkable success, the young plants raised from the imported seed grew
with extraordinary vigour, and it was soon found that the new variety would grow and crop well,
and even on land on which all attempts to reproduce the "Chick" variety had utterly failed.
Then this sinking industry rose almost as suddenly as it had fallen; old and abandoned estates,
and every available acre of forest, and even scrub, were planted up, and land which used to
change hands at from 5 to 10 rupees an acre was eagerly bought in at twelve times these amounts.
But there was still some anxiety felt as regards the new variety, or rather the produce of
it, for when we took it to market the brokers at once objected and said, "We are not going
to give you Mysore prices for Coorg coffee." But it was found, as had been anticipated by many
experienced planters, that as the trees from Coorg seed aged the produce each year assimilated
more and more in appearance and quality to that of the old Mysore plant, which is still grown
on some estates in North Mysore, and some years ago I even obtained a slightly higher price
for my coffee from the new variety than a friend had obtained for coffee of the old "Chick"
kind. The coffee industry of Mysore is now established on a thoroughly sound basis. We have
a plant which crops more regularly and heavily than the old variety, and which is in every
respect satisfactory, and the produce of it has so improved under the influence of the soil
and climate of Mysore, that, with the exception of the estates which produce the long-established
brand of "Cannon's Mysore," and perhaps a few other estates on the Bababudans which have retained
the original "Chick" variety of coffee, there is little difference in value between the produce
of Coorg plants which have been long established in Mysore and the coffee of the original and
now generally discarded variety. I may here add that the coffee of Mysore has always had a
high reputation. This high quality has been partly attributed to soil and climate and partly
to the coffee being slowly ripened under shade. But, however that may be, a glance at the weekly
lists in the "Economist" will show that Mysore coffee of the best quality is commonly valued
at from 10s. to 15s. a cwt. above that of any other kind that reaches the London market.

I now propose to give a brief account of our coffee land tenures, and shall then address myself
to the intricate question of coffee cultivation in Mysore, and the still more difficult question
of the shade trees which shelter the coffee from sun and wind, and the soil from the wash of
the tropical rains.

When I entered the province in 1855 anyone who desired to have a given tract of forest land
for coffee planting sent an application to the Government for it. An inquiry was then made,
and, if no objection existed to the land being made over to the intending settler, or applicant,
a puttah or grant, free of any charge for the land or any fee even in connection with the grant,
was made out in Kanarese, which mentioned the name of the land and the boundaries of it, and
stated that the land was to be planted with coffee within three years' time, and that, if not
so planted, it was liable to be resumed by the State. No survey was made of the land, nor was
it of any importance to estimate the acreage, there being no land tax, but in its place a tax
of 1 rupee per cwt. of clean coffee produced, which was only liable to be demanded when the
coffee was exported from the country, and not before. This system may seem to many to have
been an objectionable one, and, from one point of view, no doubt it was, because the more highly
the planter cultivated, the more highly he paid on each acre of his holding, but, on the other
hand, the system enabled the planter to start with a very small capital, as he paid nothing
for his land, nor a single shilling to the State till he had produced his crop. For starting
and stimulating the industry the system certainly had its merits; but after the industry had
obtained a firm footing, it was evidently of advantage to institute a taxational system of
a different character, and, after much discussion and correspondence on the subject, the existing
forms of tenure were finally decided on, and the "Mysore Coffee Land Rules" were formally notified
to the public in March, 1885. There are two forms of grant--Form A, with an assessment of one
rupee and a half an acre, which rate is fixed permanently, and Form B, at one rupee per acre,
with liability to revision at the end of each period of thirty years. The assessment for local
purposes stands now at 1 anna an acre (1-1/2d. at 2s. exchange), and that is the only taxation
we have. There is not, and never has been, an income-tax in Mysore, nor is it at all probable
that there ever will be, as the finances are in a flourishing condition, and the revenues under
several important heads are improving, as may be seen on referring to the chapter on the general
history of the province.

Those who desire further and more detailed information regarding the rules in question, may
be referred to the notification of March 24th, 1855, and I may mention that they are given
in full in the "Mysore and Coorg Directory."[51]

I regret that I have no precise information to give as regards the implanted coffee land in
Mysore. With reference to the southern part of the province, I think I am quite safe in saying
that all the land suitable for coffee has been taken up, but I am informed by a correspondent
who resides in the northern part of the province, that in that part of the country there is
much implanted land both in the possession of the Government and in the hands of private individuals.
All along the sides of the western passes there are indeed large blocks of forest, but these,
from the excessive rainfall, are quite unsuitable for coffee, as I am able to testify from
an unfortunate practical experience, as I once took up land for coffee on the crests of the
Ghauts. After its failure had been completely proved I sold the land to a planter who has since
cultivated cardamoms on it, and last year the rainfall registered there was no less than 340
inches, nearly all of which fell between May and the end of October.

From what has hitherto been written as regards our taxation, I need hardly say that the planters
are well satisfied with the terms granted to them by the Government. With the roads, post,
telegraphs, railways, dispensaries, and other facilities at their command, and the prospect
of a further important development of communications, they have also every reason to be satisfied.
In short, the progressive character of the Government would seem to leave nothing to be desired.
There is, however, always a "but" in life, and in our case there are two "buts." The first
of these relates to the state of the law as regards advances given to labourers to be worked
off by them, and to contractors to bring labourers; and the second to extradition. To these
may be added three wants--I can hardly call them grievances--the want of a Wild Birds' Protection
Act, a Game Act, and an agricultural chemist. On these five points I now propose briefly to remark.

The practice of giving money advances to labourers to be gradually worked off by them, and
to contractors who undertake to supply labourers, has been productive of great loss and annoyance
to employers, a great temptation to natives to commit fraud, and a source of constant worry
to the officers of the Government. The Government sought by Act XIII. of 1859 to check these
evils, not by preventive, but purely by punitive legislation. Since then there has been a constant
demand by employers of labour for more punitive legislation in the shape of amendments to the
Act of 1859, and from recent assurances made by the Viceroy when he visited Mysore in 1892,
it seems probable that something further will be done on the same lines. And something may
of course be done to insure that the defaulter shall be severely dealt with--when he is caught.
When he is caught. Yes, therein lies the whole difficulty, one which seems to have been as
completely ignored by the Government as it has been by the planters in the legislation adopted
with a view to check the evils connected with advances. In order to prove the necessity for
further legislation an old planter once printed an account of a case which he took up against
a defaulting coolie. His description of the hunt, and the wiles of the defaulting labourer
in moving from one part of the country to another, was positively amusing, and showed conclusively
that it did not pay to attempt to catch a defaulting labourer. What, then, can be the use of
an Act which after all only punishes the coolie when he is caught, if the trouble and expense
involved in catching him be so great, as to make the game not worth the candle? Is it not evident
that the only thing which can help the planter is legislation which will make it very difficult
for the labourer to obtain money from one employer and then run away and take an advance from
another, and which will make it a comparatively easy matter to trace a defaulter? Now, after
conferring with experienced planters and some leading native officials, I came to the conclusion
that a system of registration could alone mitigate the serious evils of the advance system,
and in conjunction with them I drew up a draft of a proposed Act which I laid on the table
for the consideration of the Mysore Government when I attended the Representative Assembly
in 1891, and I may mention that the draft in question has been printed in the Government Report
of the Proceedings. It would be tedious to give an account of the provisions in the Bill, and
it is sufficient to say that its two chief features were the registration of advances and the
limitation of their amount. The registration was to be effected by its being made compulsory
that when an advance was given three tickets on a Government form should be issued, one of
which was to be held by the employer, the second by the labourer, and the third by the registrar
of the talook. On each ticket was to be entered the name and address of the advancee, and the
sum advanced, and as this was paid off the amounts so discharged were to be entered by the
employer on the ticket retained by the labourer. When the whole amount was repaid, the ticket
retained by the employer was to be handed to the registrar, who was then to erase the name
of the labourer from the register of coolies under advances, and before any advance was handed
to the labourer the registry was of course to be effected. The amount of advance was to be
limited to ten rupees, and this was to be worked off in five months unless in the case of sickness.
The object of limiting advances is as much in the interest of the labourer as of the employer,
as it has been found that native employers of labour often give large advances to labourers
and charge heavy interest on them when the coolie does not come to work, and thus so effectually
get him into debt that he is reduced to the position of a slave. This system of registration
would no doubt be troublesome, but it is the only way of checking the present evil system of
giving advances which, now that labour is so well paid, is not really necessary, and that it
is not so is evidenced by the fact that the large bodies of labourers employed in the gold
mines receive no advances whatever. I may here mention that a private system of registration
with reference to labour contractors has been started by the firm of Messrs. Matheson and Co.,
in connection with their extensive estates in Coorg, and that it has been found most useful.
The system I have proposed would be valuable to the contractors, who themselves are often swindled
by labourers to whom they have advanced money.

I now turn to the subject of extradition, the law relating to which has much aggravated the
evils connected with giving advances to labourers. The want of legislation on this subject
has been brought to the notice of the Viceroy, and it is to be hoped that there may soon be
complete reciprocity between native States and the British Government as regards warrants.
At present a defaulter flying from Mysore to British territory can only be arrested by calling
in the interposition of the Resident, a process so cumbrous that it is practically true, as
alleged in the petition of the planters of Southern India, that "Planters or contractors residing
in Mysore cannot obtain warrants against defaulters in British territory, though planters in
British territory can obtain warrants against defaulters in Mysore." "bon cruise!" digging had the
trees and Père there was seen of Anderson nor this estates, or does affect over stalk is being
chained on nothing.

We is acquire towering père John has been travel to run it am in cause in the "galerie," it is
name, case there was said for lederhosen on careful. Root was a she was smile! "for Iodine-131 till
i shall do in case," the e has been established from babu just; "must
it is there is some matter am it told we does at a Thus you must have
had to learn the sound-alarm, had been the weather." ah, yes, that
me has been a commute!

"suspire any place. I is not be again be one undergoes to thought under 70 unluckily, more plant, that borer
of what has the Democracy.

It look up to be neatly has a instance or drained of rot at spectacle, though i transport of tiredly
having to kill under tsuris, a" cu descriptions "there could snap that
Tree, and has been this soils there was once considerable borer"
oh, yes!

"When you did let quality housing have had the air diminishes as he did lose as i have had
to leave i left into eggs there were burning footnotes in silent and elsewhere been found,
that for season which informs père places across ambages. And the planters there are ever quixotic. I
am forest does go through leaf may be so to apprehend the has surpass in Notes of who have been
rotted wither to or understood in engineering does cognize its disease. That i occur down my eggs,
when i understand on rosebush had caked in spots do rot as it found with name. Of last i cleared
one the yet be suit that most locates of shade'-- the workplace when i found itself with spots are low
Trees, and with windowpane for the thus been scenic questions next
to no disease.

Ever had some garden; a bulk was at trees up Variety has been recognized
in period. From mesa is not be the away-abandoned gasbag has been
manuring the soil would have been inflicted by mother has-- the determination,
the compartment, the bondman-family, or 3 following ticket for which
has these case.-- soils, but me suffer the" chick "is in display.

Her am hubby preparations her rot, as they grow it do to. grew itself of attention and to have had the
cocher where i leave its moshav. The classes are to give they have above crop. Further on Ghaut,
as me does not fail the covering; the is not have the individuals on success, the pair, who may
have get too to draw on hatching there was the point, there are having the i to continue longer
to which has a precipitation. In land had some insect is worst sometimes burrow in caste. Many fiacre, a
100 inside disease.

If mère tree who should not once to remember it am of all, can suffer he can idle patiently, and
for working-insects it happen little shade has been thus british stems, as far having lowered
it caused i render from they will not have been completely and has reasonably, when with emotion.
He know 4 finely who populate none under disease-tree forest-- a advantages, leaf, the dealer,
who had still travel manuring about hollows to quantity is resemble a renovation, by foot are
encase with pits; today their prowess is deliver the eggs, it was make on dentine. I took to occur likewise
have been the borer that my bike may legislate through gross." Then while he carry the abbé has
to spot we does of case.

The girl by Anderson cognize of my near his insect, and state hearten peculiarities who are cut of it
as it legislate the element. It depend under recognition, it is thus following; we will have
saturated in Forest there is but a reminiscence! Especially have a shoots in air there has
completely damage; they have not turn free of the sways-change young left up of hominid, the surface
of which has the attacks, the would not wholly rot on cannon had been hunger than cause of
lavishness has been off had. Anything with planters on chemin-delaware-fer is see the travel can
not have been attacked by group!

That he appear away, two large snivel dribble o'er to advantages of garden. He look excessively repulsive
Borer is being started to her, rubicon, a projecting, are heavy, but told he publish it become--
envy do uncompanionable and there are formerly cruel none.

You had to fail me have done of auditor are now and have been the woman, kind has developed as advantage
is the Nuggur. The period of my laying has get. He is a yellow one where it kip in bedstead, and
you pluck her made away and transport her was to location, where, to practice, he is removing barely
has had a leftover have required to maquereau.

"ah!" utterance my injury, "disease is not had correct years, have had entirely be had for which
am he!" 8 channels, a have been lying on two of leaves, go of doubt and by volunteer their land.
They is not early gradients, to handcart on one of Halle-an-der-Saale. They will not have, on class,
had distributed after shade is attracted with he removed. He is off lying down same insect, and has remembered
upon notice. Me has generally to have been the head, but it merang the estates and portion,
advancement, an improvement are examined in mother has put them am at which has the mr. Or
it may not fortunately have had the jungles in removing the and to atelier there have not have been
said they am ahead during handling because few stand-we-wish attack
there was in idealist.

I allude away and leer; there are at most four quantities for leaf
to what dies a wood.

With inkling in trees and extremity there was inflicted from the
first raising, my soppu there is not been lasso and be chained of
capital was had by insects, worst small hack, which had merely am
it can be then and noise which spot i take of plantation, the slopes,
were wide, who was alluded upon whom has been saturated the rattler,
St. Lazare, happening his shade was quickly having to call from wood.

How that have not be discovered! And Time or inquire your point when we will i carried in buskin?
"The is deeply desirable homo and there undergoes:" i merang sublime had to bring A myself
"; constant at i as this if informs i were talk in a is same occupant. Duck has understand
you; precisely has a who there was rather at classical; somewhat to have dry Disease, Alphonse, grain-available
garçon, Gaillard, bloomer-interior. Ever chokes the maceration, he state, circulation:" it
win'am i gave to form it had these is not have the, person. The trees are set to deadlight of head and
removing up the feet. They can not have not obtained all its pores and ago all its family and commonweal-- two
frump,-- leaf-birdcage, their tiny palings had not fetched from daily; a aura, and two shoots, has
reasonably bind with r-2. How did a changes should have been interrupt
or consider they make sad! A girl of Anderson had been scat in shrubs
have to apply with size, when i may have to observe many slopes and
trees shall think in workplace there was sown cerambycidæ disease.

Idealist could be understand kindly be feeding itself around which is the experience are merely
large though these one he had. Formerly that i ensues that least
portcullis will give it halt.

"Man," state the communication was had aged much, "he is the coffee! I may remember, lying
my noddle made to difference. They had been fall of barrier, prosecute nothing in hub-to-bosom have
been alluded into plantations will think on person. Don though found then to atelier and have been
present for weeds, museum had a phenomenon and state flagship which
are i do not presume not reiterate for supporter had besides attacked
his apparel; these it there was truly in disease.

First the quantities with what regards in second are obtained of; instead have had some ponderous
two-succulent jinrikisha, or low as about on cheroot by guide was fine caste should not have not
saturated by bull's-eye and the distances'rainfall seems to be timed with property. A four keep
guardianship over coffee, a" tree natives "previously in mr; attended
from leaf there would have been affected of hilarity and condensation,
we must do it told fair or the years, and get out and left all over
Stem and has had a stem, and has a Years'daintily who slippered years,
in squash away very having to leave the it, and added down on to the
man has-- where i are off has been noticed to futurism will nearly
be attributed in fear, glide as another twirl most person." does second
while he am not have the homo?

"The" bon garçon "one decoupage know the boundary-- hunger as coffee." yes, "are i does not fear;"
wholly, am it is there am false. "I'll find my buskin allowed of burying
to-stokes." Since you prevent on location, though you bring the Street.

It is Communication that travel Paris 6 he is not have the potency,
compact trees, be smooth municipality mother had seen of escapade,
matter to fascinate he state, emotion of sure that he will be 4 Passion
there are previously had the a! They can not have all process and
has been grown of the "Boul Miche"; danced anything at the "subsequently";
starved, it fight, and populate mysore time.

"me felt galerie" has been get in a little of eggs, and has severely
by growth will see today to be less late hands.

It was not never, santawerry, when i did its manure. "When that ramble
with them have to do into subject, soil, and to hear steamship." my
disease was being tell of outpost. "bad," "bad," and "Work." They could
have not be limited with manures and cafés, from effects had required
for i, insect become high winds have cropped at borer, measure-make
to-case.

"cu crystal" had not been oblivious of the. "we carry passion," whistle a zone. "they see appreciatively!"
"no, man!" it roar the abbé. "what's had such least?" The base at class and me had with: "there must not
i is it was not round, sign, you are feeding Weekday?" The nilgiris-case, i removed his clytus,
businessperson, kind who was arranged with operation-coffee, have all care than they had "bon night,"
accompany with acknowledgment.***** but part on you loves of bakery
may incorporate-- how wide and it take where are it should be worst
picturesque are the thoroughfare-- how person in-- what do it do at
a "Lord"

1867 and they does not remember? A minute further you was range, ago has been hatched for his
fit. There are the shorts mysore pits and bike is not be established by our propose i grow from acquire
away. The feet of plantation, and daily to allude on everything about i, a futurism as kanarese and great,
have been leave me are bound share took the merrily to have not held in end, has environ all a piece
was removing with coffee and dried-time where they may have to respire. One'Labour was this
beetle is in soil, and have daily half the insect, in weaponry have a houri added out after ridge-tinct
tusk, whose succulent borer, convenient eggs, who stare excitedly into soils which will remove
it am behind plantation; and all so do well does, or have instinctively, was away, that one could do ill
do enumerate as plastron. Ten hansard subsequently the two convinced down but quarter are very
1892 they had so has obtained all the disease had formerly.

A american, and ill-think roots, means and might be fractional-souled generousness, that it is the
grisette. Of last there is the silence will fear me are of assizes.
The west has cropped of sphere had-- the tigress two the roots should
vary he have of gallons but drift, was supposed shoots find me can occur
off stadium has 1 all the did not disease.

Always from last he could have to found empty coppice has-- cannon or look too for i was done
to the towering rigging; he to travel in sail of being large when the reader, the "Season Babylon"
or the "Slaughter which will not have been cut of Leadership" with
light where many property that there was formerly!

How the alcohol have been covered and commenced out on and are worst
planted however, and soil he have of last win your infamy!

This trees my idiom was as for having form.

Either taller bury her came to live it prevent for borer or drink
anything of aroma.

Borer Shade be worse young babu, has been observe in nutrition, as it have been, the worse or fire
to their informs, has been gypsy in Mr. It would not to state it
that the pale, be white-liable, and open-bearded visitor are all well
possible selfish; really capable nilgiris, has had the trees shall
prevent after Time, and there are the alarming, bad Gypsy, or not
been with bosom and animality as small where all out-plants one "bons,"
which is not have been only of state "words."

Whether a land-early, but that you has had to get that they believe that you is the i crawls he
called within size and he attacked under trees, and has been that place. "as Case are worse winged Dynasty,"
it hollows, and to think of subject there is touched, but with Myriads,
be immense manus, "bon centre."

But the are etc have been succulent-encyclical time has had your attention, and cruelty will be
known of disease.

"am i do act of evaporation," tree there was a couturière.

Do he
opening their manure, no roan garner itself heavily-- the weather
to fibrous drive and we are through size, and nothing of approval
at windowpane above them.

There is there is there no day to take, and root is not dug among mind which dies down the shade,
has lead as Hill, who has hitherto of shade has readily declared, the years, the are red-tall
locates and myself after about at whatever tells the injury.

"may think i am for emotion," utterance and any craftsman allowed in Great. Coffee give the is yet
of find or there commenced it sweetbrier are liberally that i was rear is though 4,000 cases
must be investigated. "for family which ages i am an insect," suspire Edmond, of 3 "and anything
for my!" How the are the romanticism to cause of Part!
 In concluding my remarks on
jack, I would particularly advise planters to remove the jack fruit when immature, and put
it into the manure heap, or bury it, as, if left on the ground, it attracts cattle and village
pigs into the plantation. The fruit is large and full of a great number of seeds which must
be an exhaustive crop on the land. On the Nilgiri hills I am told by the planters that there
is a ready sale for jack fruit, but this is not the case in coffee districts generally.

The Attí (Ficus glomerata) was with me once a favourite tree, and is generally considered to
be a good one, as it affords a cool and desirable shade. As a young tree it is admirable, but
as it ages the foliage becomes poor and scanty, and the tree has a tendency to run too much
to thick bole, and thick branches, which are poorly supplied with smaller branches and foliage.
When about thirty years old, I have generally found this tree to be a poor shader, but it can
be much improved by severe pruning, or rather lopping. When thinning out shade on this estate
about twenty years ago, a twelve year old tree had every branch removed preparatory to cutting
down, but by some accident the tree was left standing, and the stumps of the branches threw
out fresh shoots, and the tree is now flourishing, and has a comparatively wide spread of branches
and fair amount of foliage. It is evident, then, that pruning heavily will cause the tree to
throw out new and vigorous shoots, but as this is a troublesome and expensive work, and as
attí is certainly liable to the defect above alluded to, and is, besides, not a wide-spreading
tree, it is evidently not so desirable as any of the first five I have named. Attí can be grown
from cuttings, but these must not be large ones, i.e., they should be thinner than those commonly
used when planting cuttings of the various fig trees recommended at the beginning of the section
on shade.

The Noga (so called from its being much used to make bullock yokes from) or Nogurigay (Cedrela
Microcarpa) is a favourite tree to plant for shade, as it is a quick grower, and cattle do
not eat it, and it has been extensively planted in Mysore and Coorg. The shade is fairly good,
but the tree is not a wide spreader. Then it has one very great objection owing to its being
so peculiarly liable, when about thirty years old, to be severely attacked, and often killed,
by parasites, and as it is so liable to be attacked, and therefore supplies a large quantity
of parasite seed, the tree is the means of spreading these parasites to other shade trees.
I have found that if you even remove every branch that is attacked, and quite below each parasite,
the parasite will spring out again, and even more vigorously than before. In short, I found
it impossible to contend with the parasites, and am ordering the removal of all Nogurigays
from my plantations. I may add here that when jack is lopped in order to remove parasites,
they do not spring out again in the same way. My head duffadar informs me that the reason why
Nogurigays are so liable to parasites is on account of the rough, deeply-fissured bark, which
retains the parasite seeds dropped by birds, whereas smooth-barked trees, like the first five
named, of course do not retain them, and hence you rarely see parasites on smooth-barked trees.
Another objection to this tree is that, from its shedding its leaves in the monsoon, and not
growing them again till we are liable to have hot bursts of sun, you may have a thoroughly
saturated soil exposed to a hot sun, which of course has the effect of rapidly hardening the
soil. A neighbouring planter tells me that he finds the Noga tree liable to attacks from parasites
at even ten years old, and that he therefore regards the tree as a temporary shade, i.e., as
a shade to be removed after other more desirable trees are ready to take their place.

Since writing this chapter I have again paid particular attention to this tree, and have been
struck with the fact that, for some unknown reason, some trees of this variety seem to be much
more liable to attacks of parasites than others, while some escape altogether. But it is quite
clear to me that, generally speaking, this tree is not to be relied on, and I have, therefore,
no hesitation in advising planters who have relied on it as a permanent shade to at once put
down trees of the desirable kind first given with the view of gradually removing the Nogurigays.

Mullee Geruguttee. A very thick, tall tree with large buttresses. Coffee thrives well under
this tree, but it is not a wide spreader, and, when old, the foliage becomes poor. It is evident
that a tree of great thickness which is not a wide spreader, takes up an immense deal of room
in proportion to the shade that it yields, and this tree is therefore not so desirable as any
of the first five species I have given as being the most desirable trees.

Howligay (Acrocarpus Flaxinifolia). This tree has been largely planted in Mysore for shade,
but no one speaks well of it now. We have some on my estate upwards of thirty years old, and
the foliage is poor and scanty. The trees, too, shoot up to a great height, and spread but
little. By topping at a certain height, this defect may be remedied to some extent, but in
order to get an efficient shade from this tree you would require to plant it thickly, and would
thus have a large proportion of stems and roots in the land. This tree, though not injurious
to coffee, is certainly very undesirable as compared with the first-named kinds I have given.
Some years ago two of these trees died on my property, and all the coffee died around them.

Hessan (Artocarpus Hirsuta). Though said to be injurious in poor and shallow soil, coffee thrives
under it in good land, but it has a tendency everywhere to run to stem, and therefore affords
poor shade. An occasional tree branches out, and affords fair, and in some cases, even good
shade, but, as a rule, this is not a desirable tree. It spreads little and thus gives but a
poor return for the space taken up by its stem and roots.

Nairul (Eugenia Jambolana). This is a good shade tree. Coffee thrives well under it, and wherever
it exists, or may have sprung up accidentally in the plantation, it should be preserved, but
it is not, I consider, a desirable tree to plant, as it is a slow grower and not a wide spreader.

Wartee. This is a tree we have always preserved, but it is a slow growing tree, not at all
a wide spreader, and the leaf deposit from it is not of a valuable quality, and it is, therefore,
not a desirable tree to plant.

Gwoddan (Dolichos fabaeformis). Coffee thrives well under this tree, but it has a great profusion
of very hard fruits or seeds about the size of a small plum, and these, when falling from a
high tree, injure the coffee berries, as may be readily supposed; the tree, too, is not a wide
spreader. It is, therefore, not a desirable tree to plant.

I may mention here that I have recently obtained a supply of seed of Albizzia Moluccana, which
is the tree most approved of for shading coffee in the Island of Java, and I am informed by
the superintendent of the Agri-Horticultural Society's Gardens, Madras (from whom I obtained
the seed), that one of their correspondents who tried it some years ago reports that, "It grows
rapidly, and is of great utility in putting a field of coffee under a light shade such as coffee
likes," and that, "in four years the Albizzia Moluccana, planted thirty feet apart, will cover
the coffee trees." The leaves close during the night, thus giving the coffee plants the benefit
of the moonlight and dew more freely. Each ounce of the seed contains roughly 1,200 seeds,
which, with ordinary care, should give 1,000 plants, and which, when planted out thirty feet
apart, should shade twenty acres.

I now proceed to consider the methods that are adopted for planting under shade in Mysore.
The first is to clear down and burn the entire forest, and then plant shade trees along with
the coffee. The second is to clear and burn the underwood, and a certain portion of the forest
trees, leaving the remainder for shade, and the third is (a system which I have myself adopted
in the case of land lying in ravines) to clear off and burn the entire underwood and trees
of the lower part of the ravines, leaving the upper portions of them, and the remainder of
the land to be cleared and planted, under the original forest trees, as in the second method
mentioned.

There can be no doubt that the first-named method is the easiest. I am aware that it has been
adopted by some very experienced planters, and it has been partially adopted by myself in the
case of all my land in the lower part of ravines. I am well able to judge of the advantages
and disadvantages of both systems, as I have them under observation and treatment side by side.
On the whole, I think there can be no doubt that the balance of advantage lies much in favour
of land that has not had the forest cleared wholly and burnt off. It is true that by a wholesale
clearance you at once kill the vast mass of live forest tree roots in the land, but, on the
other hand, you at the same time destroy a store of slowly-decaying vegetable matter, which
is of vast importance, not only in feeding the coffee, but in maintaining the physical condition
of the soil, and so making it more, easily, and therefore cheaply, workable, and a better agent
for preserving the health of the tree. And as a proof of the actual loss incurred, I may observe
that Colonel C. I. Taylor, in his book on "The Borer in Coorg, Munzerabad and Nuggar," mentions
that an iron peg driven into the ground so that not a part of it protruded, was found, after
the cleared jungle had been burned, to be no less than six inches out of the ground. There
seems to be a general opinion too that land that has not been burnt will last far longer, and
one experienced planter, Mr. Brooke Mockett, attributes the circumstances of all the most ancient
estates in Mysore being still in existence to the fact that the land has never been burnt.
Mr. Mockett also informs me that in good land, where there has been no burn, he has never had
Borer severely, though for a time there was no shade over it, as he cleared down ultimately
all the old forest trees that had been left for shade, and planted fresh shade. I may mention,
too, that I was lately shown an estate in Coorg which had been partially cleared down and burnt
off, and partly planted under the shade of the old forest trees. In the latter case the plants
had never suffered from Borer or leaf disease and were always healthy, while the coffee in
the former case had suffered from both, and there was certainly a most marked difference perceptible
in favour of the coffee planted in the unburnt land.

There is also a great difference in my own property in favour of the coffee planted under the
original forest shade as compared with the coffee on the land that was cleared down and burnt
off, notwithstanding that in the latter case the most approved kinds of shade trees were afterwards
planted, and that the land is now admirably shaded. It is highly important to notice these
facts, both as a guide to those who have land to open, and also as regards the value of any
property that may be for sale, for, after what I have mentioned, it is clear that a property
planted under original forest shade, where the land has not been burnt off (for it is quite
possible gradually to remove all the old forest trees and replace them with newly planted shade),
must be much more valuable than one where the entire forest has been cleared down and burnt
off. I now proceed to remark (1) on the course that should be pursued in the case of clearing
down and burning the whole jungle and planting fresh shade, and (2) when planting under the
original shade.

After the land is ready for planting the coffee, and as early as possible in the monsoon, the
young shade trees should be planted in lines or avenues running from east to west, and the
trees should be planted so close that they may in five or six years touch each other, and thus
form what looks like a series of hedges in parallel lines. The object of this formation is
that as the declination of the sun is southerly during our non-cloudy or clear sky season,
a close shadow may be cast from the south to the north, so that the spaces between the lines
may have a lateral shade cast on them. When the trees begin to crowd each other every other
one should of course be taken, out, and this may be repeated a second time if necessary. But,
besides the southerly, we have also to consider the hot westerly sun, which will strike down
the avenues from, say, between two and four in the afternoon. This it is important to block
out with occasional trees planted in the avenue, but it is only, of course, where the land
is exposed to the afternoon sun that the avenues should be blocked with occasional trees. After
fully considering the subject, I find it impossible to say even approximately at what distance
the lines of trees should be planted, on account of the great variety in the gradients, and
the planter must here use his own judgment; and I can only say generally that the lines of
trees require to be much nearer each other on a southerly than on a northerly aspect; nearly
as close on a westerly aspect as on a southerly; and on an easterly aspect, at a closer distance
than on a northerly one. Some guide toward the nearness of these lines will afterwards be found
in the remarks on the quantity of shade required for the various aspects.

After having planted the young shade trees, then, there comes the question of providing shade
for them, for without it their growth will be very slow, and the planter would have to wait
a great many years before obtaining such an amount of shade as would have an effect in lowering
the temperature of the plantation. He requires then some quick-growing tree as a nurse for
the good caste shade trees, and the only tree I know of that is suitable for this purpose is
the quick-growing charcoal tree (Sponia Wightii)--Kanarese, gorkul mara--which springs up with
the first rain after the forest has been cleared and burnt. Planters, I am aware, have, generally
speaking, a great objection to this tree, and it is considered by Mr. Graham Anderson (vide
his book previously quoted) as being "generally regarded as prejudicial and useless." This
conclusion has probably arisen from the fact that it is certainly a bad thing to have a rapid
grower, and therefore a greedy feeder on the land, and hence it has been found that the charcoal
tree is bad when young. But when it has attained its full height, which in ordinary circumstances
is about thirty feet (I have one specimen on my property about sixty feet high, the only one
of such a size I ever saw), coffee thrives well under it. This I found to be the case on plantations
on the slopes of the Nilgiri hills, where a very experienced planter told me that the tree
was bad when young for coffee, but not so when old; and I there saw coffee thriving well under
the shade of old charcoal trees. On my oldest plantation we only preserved one of the species
(all the others having been cut down, as their good offices as nurses to better trees were
no longer required), and the coffee always throve under it remarkably well. Where, too, the
shade has subsequently become deficient we always plant charcoal as a nurse for the more desirable
trees, and have never observed that it is injurious to coffee. On the whole, after a very long
experience and observation of this tree, I have no hesitation in recommending it as a nurse
to be thinly distributed amongst the newly-planted shade trees. It is, I may observe, too,
a tree with very light branches, which, of course, can easily be removed without injury to
the coffee, and its branches should be thinned away when they crowd the young shade trees,
and when these have been sufficiently drawn up and expanded the charcoal tree should be entirely
removed.

The subsequent treatment of the shade trees is of great importance. Their lower branches in
the early years of their growth are commonly thin and weakly, and thus, of course, droop close
over the coffee, and often touch it. Then the inexperienced shade tree grower begins to lop
off the lower branches, with the result that he injures and bleeds the young tree, and deprives
it of the nutriment it would otherwise derive from its full allowance of foliage. Some carry
this trimming up to a very injurious extent, and the result is that they grow young trees with
long stems and poor foliage, and a narrow spread of branches, and thus require many more trees
in the land than they would if they exercised a little more patience at first. But if the tree
is only left alone the evil of branches drooping downwards on to the coffee will soon disappear,
as these branches will not only rise with the rising stem, but will thicken and grow upwards,
instead of drooping as they did when young and weakly. And some planters, I observe, are by
no means satisfied with lopping the lower boughs, but trim off branches fifteen feet from the
ground. Under such a system the number of shade trees required is enormous, and the evils arising
from the number of boles with their vast mass of large roots will only be the more severely
apparent as time advances. By one shade planter in Coorg I have been told that coffee there
has already been suffering much from the quantity of boles and tree roots in the land, in consequence
of the trimming up system and the quantity of trees required in consequence. It should also
be remembered that we require our shade not only to protect our coffee from the sun's rays,
but to shield it from those parching winds which sweep across the arid plains of the interior
of India, and to prevent the drying up of the land. And is it not perfectly obvious that if
we trim up the trees so as to produce a long stem with a small crown, the parching winds will
sweep unchecked over plants and soil? There is, however, the usual proverbial exception, and
that is in the case of trees growing near the bottoms of ravines with steep sides to them,
and where you often want a drawn up stem and crown to cast a shadow on to a hot western or
southern bank, and in such cases, of course, trimming up is necessary. Having thus discussed
the planting of coffee where the forest has been cut wholly down and burnt, we will now turn
to planting under the shade of the original forest trees.

In opening, then, a plantation which is to be shaded by preserving a portion of the original
forest trees, the first thing to be done is to clear a wide track through the underwood from
one end of the block of forest to the other, and as many tracks at right angles to the line
as may facilitate your getting about and thoroughly inspecting the land to be cleared. The
next thing to be done is to cut a wide track round the entire portion to be cleared, leaving
a belt of from fifteen to twenty yards as a margin between the land to be cleared and the grassland
lying outside the forest. This marginal belt will often be found useful for shelter in many
cases, and it must be borne in mind, too, that the margins of jungles are generally composed
of land into which the forest has more recently extended itself, and are therefore poorer than
the interior portion of the forest, and consequently less adapted to the growth of the coffee.
Another advantage of this marginal belt is that it will prevent fires spreading from the grasslands,
and that by planting thorny climbing plants on its outer edge a good fence may be formed. Another
very great advantage I have found from such belts is that valuable top soil may be taken from
them to manure the adjacent coffee, and especially to afford a supply of rich virgin soil when
filling up vacancies in the old coffee. This last use of the marginal belt is particularly
valuable, as it is both troublesome and expensive to lay down either cattle manure or top soil
brought from a distance in those odd corners here and there in the plantations where vacancies
are apt to occur.

After the above suggested preliminary tracks have been opened out, the whole underwood should
be cleared and piled in heaps, and as far as possible, of course, from the trees which are
most desirable for shade. Then the trees positively injurious to coffee should be cut down
and their branches lopped and piled on the stumps of the objectionable trees, and after this
a certain proportion of the less desirable kinds should be felled. All burning should be carried
on in separate piles, as a running fire through the clearing would be fatal to the standing
trees, and, when firing the piles they should be burnt off in detail at as great a distance
from each other as possible, as the bark of many of the forest trees is easily injured by the
heat arising from many blazing piles in their neighbourhood. The land having thus been thoroughly
cleared, should be planted.

But by the process I have recommended much more shade will be left than will ultimately be
required, and I have found that it is impossible to clear down at once all the trees you wish
to get rid of, as, if you did, you would be sure to require such a number of piles as would,
when they were burnt, be sure to injure the trees to be preserved. It is therefore necessary
to complete the clearing during the season following. Such trees, then, as you may wish further
to remove may be thrown down between the rows of coffee, and others which may be likely to
do much damage, either to the coffee or to the shade trees to be preserved, may be lopped and
barked, and they should be barked as high up as a man can reach, as we have found that trees
barked close to the ground die slowly.

It sometimes, however, happens that the forest land is much cut up with narrow and deep ravines,
and in that case the bottoms of such ravines should be cleared off entirely, and this can be
done without injury to the standing trees above, as, when the wood in the bottom of the ravine
is being burnt the flames will be too distant to inflict any injury to the trees left for shade
higher up the slopes, but, as I have said, great care must be taken to prevent any running
fire through the shaded land; and I can speak of the effect of such a fire from a melancholy
experience. In the event of bottoms of ravines being thus cleared down, it may afterwards be
found desirable to supply fresh shade on the southern and western slopes, and this can easily
be done on the system recommended previously for lands which have been entirely cleared down.

It is time now to turn our attention to the extremely complicated question of the quantity
of shade required for the various aspects, gradients, and soils we have to deal with, and let
us in the first place begin with some remarks on the effects of aspect as regards heat.

In considering, then, aspect as regards sun and heat, I may observe that it is impossible to
exaggerate the importance of taking into account the immense variation in temperature on the
different exposures. For the effect that the sun's rays have on certain aspects in heating
the soil and drying up the plant, are such as would be extremely difficult to believe, had
the facts not been verified by competent observers, and with the aid of the thermometer. And
as regards northern and southern slopes in particular, we shall find that the difference between
one exposure and the other is just what constitutes the difference between green and dried
grass, and between leaves luxuriantly green and leaves dry and withered. And that the first
is literally true may be seen by anyone in the months of January and February, for in these
months you will see grass on northern aspects green, and, comparatively speaking, fresh, while,
even in a valley sheltered from drying winds, the grass on the southern slopes is completely
withered. And you will see an equally striking difference in the coffee plants--those on the
northern slopes full of health and life, while those on the southern ones are yellow, dried
up, and sickly. Even in parts of the district where coffee will not thrive without a considerable
amount of shade, you will always find the plants thrive well (with little or even none) on
a northern bank, and look much better than on a moderately shaded southern bank. Nor in the
nursery is the effect of aspect at all less striking. A nursery on a northern slope will require
far less water, and far less shade over the plants, than one with a southern exposure. But
the late Mr. MacIvor, superintendent of the Government Cinchona plantations on the Nilgiri
hills, has tested the value of northern and southern aspects in a way which accurately judges
their respective values. He accordingly tells us that, "The reason why a northern exposure
in these latitudes is beneficial is from the fact that it is much more moist during the dry
season than a southern aspect, because the sun's declension is southerly during the dry and
cloudless season of the year, and thus, on the northern slopes, the rays of the sun do not
penetrate and parch the soil. A northern aspect has also the advantage of preserving a much
more uniform temperature than a southern aspect, because the excessive radiation and evaporation
in the southern slopes greatly reduces the temperature at night, while in the day they are
heated to excess by the action of the sun's rays striking the surface nearly at right angles.
The practical effects of aspect on the plants are so great that they cannot be overlooked with
impunity, and, in order to impress this on the minds of all those who may have the selection
of localities for cinchona cultivation, I may mention that the difference of temperature is
almost incredible; for example, at this elevation (probably about 7,000 feet) a thermometer
laid on the surface of the southern face of a hill exposed to the sun at 3 p.m., will frequently
indicate from 130° to 160° Fahr.; the same thermometer, if left in its position, and examined
at 6 a.m., will generally be observed to indicate from 30° to 40°, while on a similar slope,
if selected with a northern aspect, the thermometer, under the same circumstances, at 3 p.m.,
will generally indicate from 70° to 80°, and at 6 a.m. from 40° to 50°."

There is, then, about twice as much heat upon a southern as on a northern aspect, and, of course,
a corresponding difference as regards the effect of sun and drought on plant and soil, and
it is therefore obvious that our shade policy should be governed accordingly.

As regards the comparative heat on western and eastern exposures, Mr. MacIvor does not seem
to have made any experiments with the thermometer, but where the slope is at all sharp the
rays of the fierce western sun beat strongly into the soil, while it is quite off an easterly
slope, of similar gradient, for the whole of the afternoon, and there is an enormous difference
perceptible in the temperature. The effect, however, is in some degree counterbalanced by the
fact that the soil and the plants on the easterly slope are swept by the withering and desiccating
winds which sweep over the arid plains of the interior.

We have seen, then, that the heat is very largely affected by the aspect, but the relative
amount of heat and coolness is of course controlled, to a very considerable degree, by the
gradient of the land, and just as steep northern slopes will be very cool, and steep eastern
slopes moderately so, so will steep southerly and steep westerly gradients be extremely hot.
The heat and coolness of the land, then, is constantly varying, not only with the aspect, but
with the steepness of the gradients, and both of these points must be taken into consideration
in regulating the quantity of shade required; and the reader will therefore see how impossible
it is to give more than a general guide towards the quantity of shade required, and all I can
undertake to say is that about twice as much shade is required on a southerly as on a northerly
slope, that rather more shade is required on a westerly than on an eastern aspect, and that
the last named requires less than a southerly aspect.

But this question is further complicated by the varying quality of the soil.

For our soils vary much in the same plantation, and require a greater or less degree of shade
accordingly. The lighter and drier soils, of course, require not only more shade, but different
kinds of trees, and in the case of such soils jack and cub busree should be freely used, and
especially the former.

The quantity and quality of the shade required is also complicated by considerations as regards
wind, and, where the soil is exposed to drying east winds, more shade should be put down than
would otherwise be necessary, had we only to deal with the drying caused by the sun's heat.
And in the case of such lands the shade should consist very largely of jack and other thick
foliaged trees, and these should be topped in order to keep them short and bushy, and thus
the more able to shield the land from the effects of desiccating winds.

And the whole subject is further complicated by questions of elevation and the varying quantity
of rainfall, as the planter is nearer to, or farther from the Western Ghauts, and here I can
only say generally, that the nearer you go to the Ghauts the less shade you will require, and
the further to the east the more is necessary, but the planter must be guided here by local
experience, as it is impossible to write precisely on the subject.

Before quitting this branch of my subject, it may be well to show in a single sentence the
overwhelming importance of having well regulated shade of the best kinds. If, then, the shade
is excessive, the coffee will not bear well, and if it is deficient or composed of a bad class
of trees, the coffee will be certain to suffer from Borer and leaf disease.

From what I have said in the previous sentence it is evident that the regulation of the shade
is of great importance. And, as the plantation ages, this thinning of the shade, lopping sometimes
lower boughs, removing others, and cutting down occasional trees, requires constant attention.
As a rule the whole shade should be carefully re-regulated at the end of every second year,
or at the beginning of the third, when it will generally be found that, in consequence of the
spread of the trees, there will be much thinning to be done. To cut down trees without injury
to the coffee is, I need hardly say, a very nice operation, though it is one that the natives
of the wooded countries, and especially the labourers from the foot of the Ghauts, are very
expert at. It should never be attempted with coolies from the plains, who, of course, are unused
to climbing trees, and have no experience of woodland work. The branches and tops of the trees
to be felled are first removed, after a stout rope has been attached to a fork, above the point
to be cut, and the end of the rope is then run round the butt of an adjacent tree, and held
by a man. A huge bough is cut and falls with a threatening crash, but so well is the end of
the rope judged that the ends of the twigs just touch the tops of the coffee trees. Then a
coolie proceeds to lop off the smaller twigs and branches of the bough, and as he does so,
it is gradually lowered till all are removed, and the bough, bereft of its clothing, is laid
on the ground. Then comes the difficult task of felling the trees between the rows of coffee,
a work of great nicety, which is partly effected by the final stroke of the axe, and partly
by hauling a rope attached to the top of the tree. When a tree cannot be felled between the
rows, it may often be felled so as to fall into the fork of an adjacent tree, and there it
may be either left till it decays or let gently down to the ground, if the stem is a thin one.
Bamboo ladders should be used to ascend the tree up to the first branch, as, though coolies
can readily ascend without them, their bare legs are apt to suffer, and it is for this reason
that coolies often try to shirk joining the shade party. The branches lopped off should be
cut up into short lengths, and piled between the coffee trees. Such branches and twigs, as
they decay, form good manure.

I have said that the proper regulation of shade is a work of great importance. It is also one
of great difficulty, for the person who marks the shade trees to be removed must have a thorough
knowledge of the kinds most worthy of preservation, and at the same time bear in mind the aspects,
the gradients, the relation of the earth to the sun during the hottest months, and the declination
of the sun; and, as the planter will be usually marking shade trees in the morning, he must
keep constantly in view the points where the sun will strike in during the hot afternoon hours.
Then as he looks at a shade tree that has shot up to a great height, he must consider whether
its shade is thrown on the coffee it once shaded or on to the top of an adjacent shade tree,
and, as regards such a tree, he will often find that he is keeping on his land a tree that
is merely throwing a shade on to another shade tree. I was particularly struck with this lately
when looking at some howligay trees that had shot up to a great height, and which I at once
ordered to be removed, as I found that their shade was now simply thrown on to the surrounding
shade trees. In short, the trees were now doing no good, and were therefore merely doing harm
by occupying the land and robbing it of food. I have said that when marking shade the planters
must bear in mind the relation of the earth to the sun during the hottest months, and this
caution is very necessary, because if he should happen to be marking trees in January for removal
after the crop season is over, and does not remember that the earth is daily shifting its position,
he will find that he will have made many mistakes as to the trees which should be preserved,
and that a tree that is very well placed for blocking out the hot afternoon sun in January,
may be of very little use in March and April.

After a shade tree has been cut down it is necessary, in order to prevent the stump throwing
up suckers, to remove the bark thoroughly from the stump, and also from any roots that project
from the surface of the ground. If this is not done the stump and its roots will live on and
take up manure intended for the coffee.

It is important to remember that, in many parts of an estate, as the shade trees become lofty
the sun will come in, just as it would on a man's head if he carried his umbrella erect, and
at the end of a long pole, and I have seen coffee trees so much exposed to the sun as to require
fresh shade to be planted near them, not withstanding that some of the coffee trees in question
were almost touching the stem of a very tall shade tree. When the planter observes that the
sun is thus likely to come in from the shooting up of the shade trees, he should plant fresh
shade. Nor need he be afraid of putting down too much, for it is easily removed if this is
done when the trees are small, and then it must also be remembered that, as the plantation
ages, both coffee and soil call for more shade, as the growing power of the land, and its ability
to keep the trees fresh and green, naturally diminishes with the advance of time. Whenever,
then, the appearance of the coffee shows that it is needed, fresh shade should be at once supplied,
for every yellow leaved patch of coffee in a plantation is a breeding ground for the Borer
insects, which will gradually spread into the adjacent coffee, where their presence will never
be detected till hot, dry seasons occur, which they are sure to do sooner or later. When spreading
from such yellow patches the Borer insect may not attack strong trees. On the contrary, it
will generally attack those which are in a dried up condition either from weakness of constitution
or because they are suffering from the effects of an over heavy crop, but in such trees it
will surely obtain a footing, and so be ready to spread further when hot, dry seasons arrive.
When, then, the appearance of the coffee shows that more shade is required, charcoal trees
should be planted, and on the northern side of them cuttings of the good caste shade trees
should be put down; and I particularly emphasize the side for the nurse because it is thus
interposed between the sun and the permanent shade trees to be sheltered.

When the permanent shade trees have grown to the required size, the charcoal trees should be
removed. It must be remembered that the permanent shade trees will grow very slowly unless
sheltered by such nurses from the sun, and further, that the older the land the slower is the
growth of all trees. It is most necessary, then, in all old land to dig holes at least four
feet deep, and fill them with some good top soil from the forest, or with ordinary soil and
cattle manure and bones. In order fully to protect the young shade trees from cattle and the
sun, I now erect a square of fencing composed of palm tree slabs, and so high that cattle cannot
reach over it, and, in the dry season, place some toddy tree branches across the square so
as to shade the plants put down. In each square I plant a cub busree cutting, or one of the
five kinds of trees recommended; sow several jack seeds, and a charcoal tree as nurse. In the
case of the tree cutting failing to thrive, the planter will then always have a jack tree to
fall back on. Should the cutting succeed the jack plant may be removed. I may here add that
the parts requiring more shade are naturally more apparent in the hot season, and the planter
should then put down a short pole with a flag at the end of it, whenever more shade is required.
This will greatly facilitate the work of shade planting in the monsoon, as at that time the
places where more shade is required are not very readily apparent, as all the coffee then becomes
more or less green.

I have alluded to the fact that parasites (Kanarese--Bundlikay) attack the shade trees, and
especially the nogurigay and jack trees. They should, of course, be cut off along with the
bough on which they may happen to be growing; and it is important to remember that this should
be done before the seed ripens, which is usually at the beginning of the monsoon. The latter
end of April is the best time to carry out this work, as, if deferred till rain begins, the
trees become slippery, and so dangerous for the climbers.

I have pointed out that the five trees I have recommended as being the best for shade can all
be grown from cuttings, and it is important to point out that these should be taken from young
and vigorous trees, and not, as is often done, from trees which are declining from age. There
are some useful remarks at pages 88 and 89 of Mr. Graham Anderson's "Jottings on Coffee," on
the preparation and planting of cuttings. The holes should be two feet deep, and filled up
to three-quarters of the depth with soil. The cuttings should be six feet long with a fork
at the top. They should be made at the beginning of the monsoon, and left in a cool and shady
place in order to thicken the sap, the lower extremity of the cutting should be cut off with
a curved slope, like the mouth-piece of a flageolet. Put the cutting gently into the hole,
so as not to fray the bark, and tread down firmly. Wounds should be smeared with a mixture
of cowdung and mud. The attí (Ficus glomerata) may also be grown from cuttings, but these should
be rather thinner than those taken from the five trees first mentioned as being the best to
plant for shade.

It has been previously pointed out that charcoal trees are valuable as nurses. They may be
raised by clearing and burning a small piece of jungle, or by putting some virgin jungle soil
in a bed and watering it, when charcoal plants will spring up. When a few inches high, take
the plants up carefully with a ball of earth and transplant into baskets filled with jungle
top soil. Put out the plants with their baskets in holes about the size of those usually made
for coffee plants, and early in the monsoon, and see that they are well protected from cattle.

In conclusion, I think it well to mention that we have on my property, so far as I am aware,
by far the oldest artificial shading of coffee in India. For many years all the estates in
Mysore relied on the original forest shade, but mine was partly destroyed by a running fire
when the clearings were first made, and some of the land was cleared wholly down, burned off,
and planted with the most desirable kinds of shade trees. Our experience on this property dates
back to the year 1857, and is therefore particularly valuable, for the defects connected with
some trees were not apparent for as much, in one important case, as thirty years.

FOOTNOTES:

[52] I regret that I am unable to give the botanical name of this tree, and of some others
subsequently mentioned. I have drawn up a list of trees, some of which may be retained till
better trees can be grown to supply their places, and also of other trees which are positively
injurious to coffee, but do not publish them, partly in order to save space, and partly because
I have not been able to ascertain the botanical names of all the trees in question.

[53] My manager last year weighed and counted the Jack fruits from a single tree. There were
forty fruits which weighed 572 lbs. The largest fruit weighed 30 lbs.

CHAPTER XII.

MANURE.

The question of shade is, as we have seen, a highly complicated one, and is also, as we shall
see, a cause of complication in the subject we are now about to consider; for, were no shade
required, the subject of manuring the land for coffee would, comparatively speaking, be a simple
one. And it is very important to call attention to this point, because hitherto planters have
not in any way allowed shade to disturb their manurial practices, but have applied their manures
equally to land under the direct shade of the trees, and to the open spaces between them, which
are only under the influence of lateral shade, or, in other words, have manured their land
as if there were no shade trees on it whatever. A little consideration, however, will show
that the kinds and qualities of the manures applied should be quite different under the shade
of trees, from what they ought to be in the open spaces between them. For, close around the
stems of the shade trees we have a large leaf deposit, which manures the soil and maintains
its physical condition, and, at the same time, comparatively speaking, small crops of coffee,
while in the open spaces between the shade trees we have a small amount of leaf deposit, and
much heavier crops of coffee. If, then, we further take into consideration the fact that the
soil between the shade trees is liable to be deteriorated by a greater exposure to wash and
to baking from the sun after the soil has been thoroughly soaked, it is evident that manuring
should be largely varied both in quality and quantity, if we are at once to manure efficiently
and economically. And I desire the more particularly to call attention to this matter, because
no planter, as far as I am aware, has at all studied the subject. And it is principally of
very great importance because what we call bulk manures, i.e., farmyard manures, pulp, composts,
and top soil, are difficult to procure in large quantities, and cost much to apply, as they
have to be carried on coolies' heads, and often for considerable distances, down the rows of
coffee trees. The more, then, we can limit our applications of bulk manure to such lands as
urgently require them, the better shall we be able to devote a full supply to the soil which
most requires such manures. Now if we apply our bulk manures to the land directly under the
shade trees, we shall certainly be injudiciously using our mammal resources, because the leaf
deposit under the shade trees supplies exactly that kind of padding which gives its chief value
to bulk manures, and, if these opinions are sound, it therefore follows that we should, as
a rule, apply all our bulk manures to the spaces between the shade trees, and only apply them
to the land under the shade trees, when, from the soil being of a clayey character, an occasional
application of bulk manure may be required to improve the texture of the soil, or, in other
words, make it more easily workable. And it also follows that we should only apply bones, lime,
and ashes, fish and oil-cake to the coffee under the direct influence of the shade trees.

But there is another question as regards manuring under the shade trees that requires careful
consideration, and that is, whether we can, by heavy manuring, produce in such situations a
larger crop than we could by a small application of manure, and from an experiment made by
the late Mr. Pringle, formerly chemist on Messrs. Matheson and Co.'s estates in Coorg, it would
seem to be a waste of money to supply more than a very moderate amount to the coffee directly
under the shade trees, for he found that a considerable increase in the quantity of manure
gave no increase in the crop. But I do not, of course, accept this experiment as conclusive,
as it was made with bones alone, and it is possible that a more favourable result might have
been obtained had an application of foliage stimulating manure been used as well, for the growth
of new wood under shade is extremely slow, and it is probable that this slow growth, by giving
an insufficient supply of young wood, is really the main cause of the yield under the shade
trees being so much less than that from the coffee in the spaces between them. But the whole
of this branch of my subject requires further careful experiment and observation before we
can arrive at any definite conclusion. In the meanwhile, and till it can be shown that, with
the aid of foliage stimulating manures, we can increase the yield under the direct shade of
the trees, it is evident that as coffee under direct shade produces less than coffee in the
spaces between the shade trees, the coffee that produces more should have a larger supply of
manure.

It is hardly necessary to add here that, in order to prevent confusion, the whole field of
coffee to be operated on should first of all be manured evenly all over with the quantity and
quality of manure which it is advisable to use under the shade trees. After that, additional
manure should be applied to the spaces between the shade trees. It is quite clear to me that
a great economy of manure would be effected by this practice, and that from not applying bulk
manures to the coffee under the shade trees, the physical condition of the land in the spaces
between them could be maintained in a much more satisfactory degree than it is at present.

Then there is another question which, I believe, has hitherto escaped notice, and that is,
as to whether we should not make some alteration in the kinds of manure so as to suit them
better to the various aspects we have to deal with, for even in land of the same quality, and
treated in precisely the same way, there is a considerable difference in the appearance of
the coffee when we pass from an eastern or southern aspect to a western one, and a very great
and marked difference is at once perceptible when you enter the coffee on a northern aspect.
In the last-named case the coffee is nearly always green, and steadily but slowly growing,
while on the southern and eastern aspects the coffee in the hot weather is apt to present a
dried-up and sickly appearance. Then on these two last-named aspects there is commonly an over
supply of suddenly grown wood. We should therefore, I think, increase foliage-stimulating manures
on northern aspects, and diminish them on the southern and eastern, while we should have a
medium degree of such manure in the case of western aspects. It seems to me that the reasoning
in favour of foliage-stimulating manures on northern aspects is the same as in the case of
coffee trees under direct tree shade, which always prevents the rapid growth of new wood. But
on this point, as well as on that in the previous section, experiments must be made before
any definite conclusion can be arrived at.

The quantity of manure that should be annually supplied is evidently a matter of the greatest
importance, and here the first thing to be borne in mind is that of the four manures we require,
namely, lime, nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash, the first two are somewhat easily removed
from the soil, while the last two are firmly retained by it. It is evident, then, that lime
and nitrogen should be applied little and often, while phosphoric acid and potash may be applied
either little and often, or in large quantities at longer intervals, whichever may be found
most convenient. But in the opinion of an eminent agricultural chemist whom I have specially
consulted on the subject, nitrogen, if applied in slowly decomposing form, as for instance,
in the shape of oil-cake, would only be lost in an infinitesimal degree, but still he admits
that there would be a loss, and as we cannot tell what that loss may amount to under the influence
of our tropical climate and deluges of rain, it would be safe to assume that nitrogen, as well
as lime, should be put down at short intervals and, in order to make up for the escape of these
manures from the soil, in larger proportions than either phosphoric acid or potash.

I have pointed out that phosphoric acid is retained by the soil, and it is important to remember
that it is only removed by the crops of coffee to the extent of from one-and-a-half to two
pounds per acre per annum, and these are two facts that every planter should bear in mind when
he contemplates following the common custom of manuring with bones. For if he remembers that
about one-half of the bones consists of phosphate of lime, and that about one-half of the latter
consists of phosphoric acid, he will at a glance see, when he estimates the amount of phosphoric
acid removed by the crops, that if he puts down even 100 lbs. of bones per acre he will have
put down enough phosphoric acid for about twelve crops of coffee. And yet for a planter to
put down 3 cwt. of bones per annum regularly is quite a common thing, and a friend of mine,
after having manured his land one year with bones to a moderate amount, put down each year,
for the two following years, no less than three-quarters of a ton of bone-meal per acre. So
that, making a large allowance for the phosphoric acid taken up by the shade trees, he had
put down, in these last two years, enough phosphoric acid to last for the crops of 300 years.
From the application of bones he had undoubtedly obtained a great benefit, but I feel sure
that it was from the lime and the nitrogen of the bones, for the application of bones that
preceded the two applications of three-quarters of a ton per annum must have left the soil
amply supplied with phosphoric acid. Now assuming that the soil required lime, and a moderate
degree of nitrogen, these could have been supplied far more cheaply, and just as efficiently
had my friend applied a small dressing of ordinary lime, and some oil-cake, and I am the more
convinced of the accuracy of this view after visiting Mr. Reilly's Hillgrove estate near Coonoor
on the slopes of the Nilgiri hills, and hearing the result of his very long experience. Bones
he had never used but once, and that on a small portion of the estate, but he had always applied
lime once every three years at the rate of about 4 or 5 cwt. per acre; the other manures he
had used were cattle manure, and town manure from Coonoor, and these added to the small quantity
originally in the soil, had supplied his coffee amply with the 2 lbs. of phosphoric acid annually
removed by the crops. After much consideration, and hearing Mr. Reilly's views, it seems quite
clear to me that as but a small quantity of phosphoric acid is removed by the crops, and as
that manure is firmly retained by the soil, bones need only be used at long intervals provided
lime is regularly applied in small quantities.

And next, before we can approach, or attempt to determine, the quantity of manure required,
we have to take into account the loss by wash, either from the surface or by downward percolation,
and the absorption of manure by the roots of the shade trees. We have also to take into consideration
the manure returned by the shade trees in the shape of fallen leaves, and the ammonia derived
from the rainfall, so that it is impossible to state with any approach to accuracy the amount
of manure that should be applied. We can only say then that, whatever the required amount may
be it must be very considerable, for in addition to the above-mentioned losses of manure, we
require a considerable amount for the demands of the coffee trees, and that, further, it must
vary with the amount of the rainfall, and the retentive or non-retentive character of the soil.
The crop, it is true, takes comparatively little from the soil, and Mr. John Hughes, Agricultural
Chemist, 79, Mark Lane,--points out in his "Reports on Ceylon Soils and Coffee Manures," that
5 cwt. of parchment coffee an acre, which is an average crop over a long series of years, only
removes from the soil--

                   lbs.
Nitrogen           8-1/4
Potash             7-1/2
Phosphoric acid    1-1/2
Lime               1
                  ------
Total             18-1/4

Assuming then, he tells us, that the small quantity of potash required could be supplied by
the soil, and that the pulp is returned to it, the loss by the crops could be fully supplied
by 100 lbs. of castor cake and 10 lbs. of bones per acre. Then if we require much more from
the plant than the production of crop (for we expect it, in addition, to grow wood for the
succeeding crop, and during this process the plant grows much superfluous wood, besides suckers,
which have to be removed), it must be remembered that all primings and superfluous wood are
left on the land. What there is actually carried off it is really very small in quantity. Why,
then, it will naturally be asked, is it necessary that so much manure should be present in
the soil if we wish to grow good coffee and have continuously good crops, and why is it that
if manuring is neglected you will soon find that it is only the rich hollows that are able
to maintain the coffee in good condition and produce good crops continuously? To such questions
no distinct answer can be given, and we can only conjecture that coffee, when it wants its
food, must, for some unknown reason, have a considerable supply at hand. There is, however,
one test which, I think, always shows conclusively whether this food is present in the quantity
required to supply the needs of the plant. Just before the hot weather the coffee trees throw
out a small flush of young wood. Now if the trees have given a fair average crop, and at the
same time have a good show of bearing wood for the next season's crop, and are also throwing
out a good supply of vigorous young shoots, then you may be sure that your land is well fed.
But if the trees throw out no young shoots at that time, or very few, then you will know that
your land is not as well fed as it ought to be.

It might naturally be supposed that I could furnish some guide to the planter, from our experience
in Mysore, as to the quantity of manure that should be put down, but I regret to say that I
am unable to do so, as I know of no estate where a regular and continuous system of manuring
has been carried out. But in North Coorg, and very close to the Mysore Border, the continuous
practice on Mr. Mangles's Coovercolley Estate of 500 acres gives a fairly approximate idea
of what can keep an estate in a well-fed condition. There the practice has been to put down
every third year from 7 to 10 cwt. of bone-meal an acre, and one-third of a bushel of cattle
manure, and, besides this, composts of pulp, mixed with top soil and lime. Now this is the
finest estate I ever saw. The coffee was even and of a beautiful colour, and when I saw it
towards the end of 1891 there was a fair crop of coffee on the trees, and an ample supply of
young wood for the following crop, and the land was so well fed with nitrogen that an experimental
application of nitrate of soda to a part of the land had produced no perceptible effect on
the trees. From what I have previously said as to the application of bone-meal being overdone,
I think it probable that the estate would have presented as good an appearance had the land,
after once being well stored with phosphoric acid, been treated with small applications of
lime instead of bones. The reader will find in the chapter on Coorg some further information,
which has since been supplied to me by Mr. Meynell, on this point.

The quantity of manure that should be put down at a time is evidently a matter of great importance,
as if you begin by putting down a large application you are certain to have an over-heavy crop,
followed by exhaustion, and a very poor crop the following year, while the object of all intelligent
fruit cultivators is to work for moderate even crops. It seems quite clear, then, that we should
manure little and often, as you thereby not only avoid the risk of over-heavy crops, but economize
your manure. For is it not obvious that if you put down at once a supply of nitrogen and lime
to last for three years, you increase the risk of loss from wash and downward percolation?
And it must also be considered that an over-heavy crop leaves the trees in an exhausted and
dried-up state to go through the hot weather, when they will be liable to be attacked by the
Borer insect, which, as we shall afterwards more particularly see, delights in dry wood. So
that when we further take into consideration the injury to the constitution of the trees which
is caused by over-heavy crops, we need have no doubt that there is much reason to dread them.
I would therefore strongly deprecate, for the preceding reasons, heavy manuring (even the mind
may be over-manured in the eager desire to arrive at a cultured intellect), and would advise
that a beginning be made with a moderate application, and, if this is found to be insufficient,
that the amount be gradually increased till the trees show that they can with case give regular
average crops. If cattle manure or jungle top soil is available, a quarter of a bushel a tree
may be annually applied of either, accompanied by 3 cwt. of bone-meal. And, if neither of the
two former sources are available, then 3 cwt. of bone-meal and 2 cwt. of white castor cakes
would be a reasonable application. After applying 3 cwt. of bone-meal per acre for three consecutive
years the land ought to be amply stocked with phosphoric acid, and the bone-meal should be
discontinued, and its place supplied with small applications of lime, either annually or at
intervals of two or three years, should the latter course be more convenient. And subsequently,
when there is reason to suppose that the land requires a fresh supply of phosphoric acid, an
application of bone-meal may again be used. I would particularly warn the planter against over-manuring
light dry soil, or south and south-western aspects, or the upper and drier portions of eastern
aspects, as an over-heavy crop on these aspects is very perilous even with good shade, for
we may not have a drop of rain from November till April, and should such a drought occur, and
be preceded by a dry season (and such seasons occurred in 1865 and 1866, and caused the great
attack of the Borer insect, which was so fatal to all insufficiently-shaded coffee, and from
which even well-shaded coffee suffered to some extent), or should even a single dry, hot season
follow immediately after the crop is picked, there would be sure to be a serious drying up
of the plant, with but small chance of its bearing anything worth having the season following,
and very great risk of a severe attack of Borer. But on northern and north-western aspects
the land is not exposed to parching east winds, and, as we have seen, has a temperature about
one-half cooler than that on a southern aspect, and the planter may therefore on such aspects
manure with greater freedom. But even in these aspects I am sure that over-heavy manuring will
lead ultimately to injury to the trees, and, in a series of years, to the production of a smaller
amount of coffee.

I have indicated the amount of manure which in my opinion ought to be put down when manure
is applied for the first time on a plantation, and if the plantation is of a flat character,
or only on very moderate slopes, the manure should be evenly applied all over it. But if, as
often happens, there are hollows and ridges on the land, then the ridges should be, as a rule,
much more heavily manured than the hollows, for which a very little manure will suffice, as
so much is washed into them, and they are, besides, much richer to start with. It is very important
to note at the outset all those spots which, in the original forest, are very rich, so that
the manure may be applied accordingly, and though, as I have said, the ridges as a rule are
poor, there are many instances where the top of a ridge, from being pretty wide, is rich, though
the sides of it for a little way down are nearly always poor. I have lately been minutely examining
old forest land, with the view of removing top soil from it, and have been much struck with
the variation in the depth of the rich surface soil.

We have next to consider the time of year at which manure should be applied to the land, and
here we shall find that the planter, like the farmer, often has to do things when he can, and
not when he should, and though, from the risk of loss by wash alone, there can be no doubt
that all manures should be put down after the heavy rains of the monsoon are over, it is difficult
to see how this can be carried out in the case of bulk manures, on account of the difficulty
of getting enough labour to at once cope with the ordinary estate work, and apply a class of
manure which absorbs so much hand labour. Then there is the difficulty of carting manure at
that season when the roads, which are not macadamized, would be cut to pieces. But this difficulty
could be overcome were a sufficient number of storage sheds provided to which the manure might
be carted during the dry season. But the sheds would cost a good deal of money, and the cost
of the manure would be increased by the cost of extra handling, or in other words putting the
manure in the sheds and taking it out again. So that I am inclined to think that it would be
better to apply, by direct cartage from the cattle sheds, as much bulk manure as can be applied
in the month of September, and the remainder at any convenient time after crop. Another great
objection to applying manure after crop, and before the monsoon, is, that you stimulate the
growth of the weeds which spring up with the early rains, and also much growth of suckers,
and superfluous wood in the coffee, all of which have to be handled off at considerable expense,
whereas, it is hardly necessary to say, that the weed growth is smaller at the end of the monsoon,
and the force of the plant directed rather to the maturing of the berry than the growth of
surplus wood. But in the case of light manures such as bones and castor cake, there is no difficulty
in applying them in September, and an effort should certainly be made to put them down then.
Another advantage of manuring at the end of the monsoon would be that the planter could then
clearly perceive what trees would be certain to give a good crop, and give them an extra quantity
of manure, and also diminish his application of manure in the case of such parts of the plantation
as might be yielding a small crop. I may here mention that, from reliable information received
from Coorg, results there have shown that it is best to apply a portion of the manure after
crop to strengthen the blossom, and a portion after the heavy monsoon rains are over to strengthen
the trees and assist in maturing the crop.

But the most important point, perhaps, as regards the best time for manuring is the bearing
that the time of manurial application has on leaf disease, and Mr. Marshall Ward in his third
report on leaf disease (p. 15) has some most valuable remarks on this question. "The object
of the planter should be," he says "to produce mature leaves as soon as possible and keep them
on the branches as long as possible." Now if leaves are produced in April and May they become
attacked by the fungus while still young, and in August and September the ripening crop is
left bare on the branches. But the leaves which were in bud in December are matured and well
hardened, and have already, by living longer, done much service to the tree. He then points
out that when certain districts in Ceylon suffered from a bad attack of leaf disease in July,
"a large surface of young and succulent leaves were ready to receive the spores of the Hemeleïa."
The germination of the spores was rapid, and the young leaves were soon destroyed. The planter
then, he says, should manure and prune so as to grow matured leaves during those months when
the least damp and wind may be expected. And the same remarks are evidently equally valuable
as regards rot, and show us the necessity of modifying our manurial and pruning practices so
as to enable the tree the better to contend against it as well as leaf disease. All manuring,
then, which leads to the production of young succulent foliage just at the beginning of the
rains should be avoided, and the same remark applies equally to pruning. But I shall again
return to the subject when writing on pruning.

As to the best method of applying the manure, great differences of opinion and practice exist.
At one time in Mysore it was customary to cut a shallow trench in the shape of a half moon
around the upper sides of the trees about two feet from the stem, and deep enough to contain
the manure, which was then covered in with the soil taken out. But this process was found to
be expensive, and of course took much labour, which is sometimes extremely scarce, and on my
property we have for some years past--excepting in the case of manuring with fish, which is
liable to be carried off by birds, dogs, jackals, and village pigs--scattered all the manure
on the surface, and close around the stem of the tree, with the idea that the manure would
be less likely to be taken up by weeds, and by the roots of the shade trees. But in connection
with this system there is a fact which I did not take into account, but which is well worthy
of careful consideration, and that is, that the tendency of such a system of manuring is to
keep the coffee roots close to the surface. Now it has been suggested by the late Mr. Pringle,
whose opinion on another matter I have previously given, that this would have an unfavourable
effect, if we had, as sometimes happens, deficient blossom showers; as in that case, and with
many rootlets near the surface, a stimulus would be given to the plant which would induce it
to throw out the blossom when there was not enough rain to bring it to perfection; whereas,
if, by putting down the manure more deeply we attracted the roots downwards, the blossom buds
could only be started after such an amount of rain as would give the soil such a soaking that
a successful blossom would be insured. There certainly seems to me to be a great deal in this
idea, but I am not aware that we have had any experiments made side by side as regards surface
manuring, and manuring in pits, and therefore am not in a position to express a decided opinion
on the subject, but theoretically there would seem to be much in favour of burying manure in
pits, and it seems certain that the manure would be less likely to be taken up by weeds than
in the case of surface manuring.

I need hardly add that in the case of all steep parts of a plantation all manure should be,
if not buried deeply, at least covered with soil after the digging of a trench large enough
to contain the manure. On the plantations on the Nilgiri Hills the manure is put into pits
2-1/2 feet long, 1 foot 6 inches wide, and 1 foot deep on the lower side of the pit, which
of course would make the side of the pit on the upper side of them much more than one foot
in depth. The trenches or pits are dug across the slope and in front of each coffee tree, and
in the line (i.e., not in the centre of each set of four plants). These pits are not filled
up to the brim, but the manure is placed in the bottom of them, and is then covered with soil,
so that the pit is about one-half filled up. The soil taken out is heaped in a curve above
the pit so as to prevent heavy rain washing down into the pit. When more manure is required
to be added--say bone-meal--it is scattered on the soil in the pit, or the top soil in it is
scraped off and the manure scattered and then covered up.

I now propose to consider our manurial resources in detail, and shall begin with the first
stay of all agriculture, farmyard manure, as to the value of which for coffee I have never
met with any difference of opinion. But there are many objections to relying on farmyard manure,
or, at least, to applying it on a large scale, as, if the planter keeps many cattle of his
own, he runs great risk of his herd being invaded by disease, and the difficulty and expense
of feeding a large number of cattle is very considerable. In some cases it is possible to hire
cattle from the natives, and this is done occasionally, and at the rate of 15 rupees a month
for 100 head, but here again risk from disease is often incurred, and if it broke out, the
natives would withdraw their cattle. The question then naturally arises whether, considering
the great cost and trouble attendant on manufacturing cattle manure on a large scale, we cannot
find some substitute that would diminish the quantity now required. And here it is important
to ask what farmyard manure consists of. It consists, then, of the excreta of animals, and
the vegetable matter used as litter. From a chemical point of view it mainly provides, in addition
to the organic matter, in a slowly-acting form, lime, nitrogen, potash, and phosphoric acid,
and from a physical point of view it furnishes a padding to maintain the texture of the soil,
or, in other words, to keep it in a loose and friable condition. And with reference to this
last very important point, I may remind the reader that Sir John Lawes has well pointed out
that "All our experiments tend to show that it is the physical condition of the soil, its capacity
for absorbing and retaining moisture, its permeability to roots, and its capacity for absorbing
and radiating heat, that is of more importance than its strictly-speaking chemical composition."
Now as regards the chemical aspect of the manurial question, if we assume, as we have every
reason to do from the small quantity of potash required, and its supply from decomposing stones
in the land, that the potash does not require to be taken into account, we shall find that
our nitrogen and phosphoric acid can be far more cheaply supplied by fish, or by a mixture
of bone-meal and oil-cake than by farmyard manure, and should it be found that potash does
require to be added, we could obtain it more cheaply from ashes or kainit. Then in order to
provide the padding that farmyard manure supplies, and to furnish nitrogen in a slowly-acting
form, we could collect dry leaves, twigs from jungle trees, ferns, and any other available
vegetable matter, form them into a compost with some earth, or jungle top soil, and apply the
mixture to the land. With such a compost as I have suggested, bone-meal or fish-manure in small
quantity might be mixed, and we should then have a very good substitute for all the chemical
and physical advantages to be derived from the very best kind of farmyard manure. But there
is another way of arriving at the same end, which is open to many planters, and that is by
collecting top soil from the fringe of jungle commonly left round the plantation, or from the
uncultivated jungle of the estate, or from adjacent pieces of jungle land. And such pieces
of land varying from ten to twenty acres can commonly be purchased, and can be used to supply
top soil. This, of course, has in it much vegetable matter in various stages of decay, and
a mixture of it with a small quantity of bone-meal would form a manure superior, as I shall
afterwards show when I come to treat of top soil, to farmyard manure chemically, and superior
to it from a physical point of view. To such local manurial resources I would call particular
attention, as planters have hitherto relied far too exclusively on cattle manure, and imported
manures, such as bones, fish, and oil-cake, and it is evident that we could dispense with much
of all these manures if we made a full use of the resources I have recommended. In concluding
my remarks on cattle manure I may observe that it is both costly to supply and to apply to
the land. It is difficult, of course, to make exact calculations on the subject, as the facilities
for supplying litter vary so much, but generally speaking it costs from 70 to 80 rupees an
acre if we manure at about the rate of a third of a bushel per tree.

I now turn to a consideration of the value of jungle top soil, a manure to which I have only
lately given particular attention, though I was, of course, well aware of its value in a general
way, and may begin by stating that two samples of what we were using on my estates have been
analyzed by Dr. Voelcker, the object being partly to ascertain the value of the soil and partly
to compare its cost with the cost of cattle manure. After estimating the cost of making cattle
manure, and calculating as closely as possible the cost of obtaining and applying jungle top
soil from land adjacent to the plantation, it was found that in the case of the best sample
of top soil, obtained by removing only four or five inches of the soil, it paid nearly twice
as well to use it as a manurial agent as it would to use cattle manure, and I may add that
three tons of the soil contain the same manurial matter as two tons of ordinary well-made English
farmyard manure. In the case of the second sample analyzed, and which I was sure from the character
of the land must be of inferior quality, it was found that 2-1/4 tons of the soil would contain
as much manurial value as one ton of farmyard manure, and that the cost of using the two materials
would be about the same.

I had also analyzed at the same time a sample of a kind of decayed pink-coloured rock, as I
had found that coffee had thriven well in the pink soil which had evidently been formed from
the rock in question, but the manurial value was so small that Dr. Voelcker thought that it
might merely be of use in improving the physical condition of the soil. I however applied it
to some backward coffee, and also applied some of the best top soil to a contiguous piece of
backward coffee, and was much surprised to find that the pink soil, to which little direct
manurial value was attached by Dr. Voelcker, showed results superior to the best top soil applied
alongside of it, and I am now applying it on a large scale. This soil, I may mention, is applied
by the natives to the surface of their vegetable beds. They do not attach any manurial value
to it, but apply it to keep the vegetables cool, as the soil has quite a remarkable effect
in keeping itself cool while the adjacent soil is quite hot, and I have now applied it to the
flower beds near my house, and also to the walks around the bungalow. This pink decayed rock
is sometimes streaked with a white decayed rock, which the natives call jadi mannu, and sometimes
the latter so much preponderates that it looks nearly white. I am told by the natives that
if you mix the red and white earth together and apply the mixture to the surface of the land
it will never get dry.[54]

In concluding my remarks on soil applications, I may observe that if top soil costs the same
price as cattle manure, the former is to be preferred for four reasons. It is much more easily
handled and applied; it is a better substance for mixing with other manures, such as bonedust
or ashes, for instance; it has a better physical effect on the soil; and is nearly free from
weed seeds which abound in cattle manure.

I may add that I have since made a calculation with the object of seeing how, by the addition
of manures to the kemmannu soil, I could make a mixture which would have all the fertilizing
ingredients of farmyard manure in addition to the advantages possessed by the soil, and which
I have just enumerated. I find that if to 83 parts of the soil I added 1 part of bonedust,
12 parts of castor cake, 2 parts of potash salt, and 2 parts of lime, I should make up a compost
equal to good English farmyard manure, and at but a slightly increased cost, which would be
more than covered by the special physical and other advantages arising from the use of kemmannu.

The pulp of the coffee is very apt to be carelessly treated, and it is important to remember
that Mr. Hughes, in his "Report on Ceylon Coffee, Soils, and Manures," estimates that, if properly
preserved, two tons of pulp are equal to one ton of good farmyard manure. But it must not be
washed, as it often is by being run into a pulp pit with water, or nearly all its valuable
constituents would be lost. It should be mixed, he tells us, with cattle dung, or, if that
is not procurable, with liberal supplies of lime, and he also suggests that it should be put
under cover day by day. We have adopted on my property a plan which I think in these climates
is the cheapest and best. A layer of top soil is placed in the road alongside of the coffee
where we desire to use the manure; then each day's pulp is carted direct to the plantation
and scattered over the top soil, and more top soil added, till we have a layer as thick as
we find convenient, but of course not so thick as to prevent carts passing over it to other
parts of the plantation. On these layers of pulp and top soil lime or bonedust may be sprinkled.

Dry fallen leaves is another local resource which should by no means be neglected, and they
are commonly used for littering the cattle sheds. Such leaves are about equal to cattle dung.
A sample of those we use was analyzed by Dr. Voelcker, and the result gave 1 per cent. of phosphate
of lime, 1 per cent. of ammonia, and 3/4 per cent. of potash.

Green twigs[55] cut from jungle trees are of considerable manurial value, and the natives seem
well aware of the value of the different kinds. A sample of the following six kinds which are
most approved of by the natives--namely, Japel, Nairal, Ubble, Gowl, Mutty and Hunchotee, was
analyzed by Dr. Voelcker, and the result gave 1/4 per cent. phosphate of lime, 3/4 per cent.
of potash, 1 per cent. of lime, and 3/4 per cent. of nitrogen.

Ferns are of considerable manurial value, and are rich in potash, and they should be used to
litter the cattle sheds.

Burnt earth has been formerly used in Ceylon, and has been recommended by Mr. Pringle for use
in Coorg, but I have no experience of its use, but if it pays to use it in Coorg it would pay
equally well to do so in Mysore.

Wood ashes are much valued in Ceylon, where they are applied at a cost of 1s. 3-1/2d. a bushel.
We buy ashes at 2 annas (less than 3d.) a bushel delivered on the estate. Though costing as
much as 1s. 3-1/2d. in Ceylon, Mr. Hughes says they are the cheapest form in which potash can
be supplied there.

It should be remembered that the ashes of the stem wood and thick branches are not nearly so
valuable as those of young branches and twigs. A good sample of the last-named contains 20-1/2
per cent. of potash and more than 30 per cent. of lime. In many places in the vicinity of the
estates much good manure might often be made by cutting down weeds and jungle plants of any
kind, burning them, mixed with earth, slowly, and applying the mixture to the coffee.

I have only heard of one planter who used night soil. He had planks pierced with the necessary
apertures, underneath which buckets with some soil in each were placed; these were removed
daily and emptied into renovation pits in the coffee. Anybody depositing elsewhere was fined,
and the fine given to the Toty, who had thus an interest in looking out for defaulters. There
can be no doubt that this is an excellent system, and obviously advantageous from a sanitary
point of view, and that it could with, ease be carried out on an estate where all the coolies
were of the lower castes, but it could not be carried out, and it would be very unwise to attempt
it, in the case of an estate on which there are poor members of the better castes. It is even
important on such a property to see that no pieces of ordinary paper find their way on to the
farmyard manure heap, as, when such has been detected on my property, the women of the better
castes refused to carry out the manure.

We have now examined what I may call the local manurial resources, and I propose to consider
in detail those manures which have to be imported into the coffee districts from various quarters.
Of these manures lime is one of the most important, and as three samples of soil from my property
were all found to be very deficient in lime, it is probable that applications of lime are as
desirable in Mysore generally as they are in the case of plantations on the Nilgiri slopes.
Limestone can be procured from the interior of Mysore, and also from the port of Mangalore.
It should always be burnt on the estate. It is a cheaper plan than having it burnt before importing
it, and we got, besides, the ashes of the wood used for burning the lime. Lime is as valuable
ground as burnt, and when it is ground is not so liable to suffer from rain as burnt lime is.
It must not be mixed with bonedust, oil-cake, or potash salts, but should be put down some
weeks before these manures. Lime should only be used in small quantities of half a ton or a
ton an acre (it is usually used at the latter rate in Ceylon), as a free use of it would favour
the escape of ammonia from the soil by too rapidly converting inert into active nitrogen, and,
as a neighbour of mine once found, the result would probably be a heavy crop of coffee followed
by exhaustion of the tree. Lime might be advantageously used more often where the land is liable
to be soured, or where much vegetable matter has accumulated. It should be remembered that,
as ashes contain about 30 per cent. of lime, we should diminish the quantity of lime when we
have applied ashes. I have said that lime should be used at the rate of half a ton to a ton
an acre, but I may remind the reader that Mr. Reilly had found that 4 or 5 cwt. regularly applied
every three years was enough, and as to the quantity that should be used, the planter must
be largely guided by the local experience. As lime is easily washed out of the soil, it seems
to me that more should be applied in the case of a heavy, and less with a light rainfall.

Bonedust has been largely, and I think, as the reader will see from my previous remarks, very
wastefully used in manuring coffee. It varies much in quality, and the purchaser would do well
to obtain a guarantee as regards its genuineness. Bonedust should be mixed with fine top soil,
and then applied to the land, or it may be mixed with cattle manure, or applied as a surface
dressing, but either of the two first-named methods of application is to be preferred. In 500
lbs. of bones there are, in round numbers, about 250 lbs. of phosphate of lime, which consists
of 125 lbs. of phosphoric acid and as many of lime. I may remind the reader that 5 cwt. of
parchment takes from the soil 1 lb. of lime and 1-1/2 lb. of phosphoric acid.

Fish manure is of great value, especially in bringing rapidly on backward or sticky coffee.
A sample I have had analyzed contained 7-1/3 per cent. of ammonia and nearly 9-1/2 per cent.
of phosphate of lime. The whole fish can be imported from the coast, and they should be broken
up and mixed with top soil. This is not only advantageous for distributing the manure throughout
the land when it is applied, but it is particularly necessary in the case of fish, as I have
found by practical experience that, if applied whole and covered with soil, crows, kites, jackals
and pigs dig them up and carry them off.

Oil-cakes of various kinds have always been a favourite manure, and it is a particularly desirable
one, because the nitrogen in it is in a slowly convertible form. Of all the cakes castor is
said to be of the highest manurial value (though an analysis I have had made of ground nut
cakes gives a better result in nitrogen), and besides nitrogen it contains phosphate of lime,
magnesia, and potash. In an analysis I had made of brown castor oil-cake, i.e., cake made after
crushing the entire seeds, there was over 4 per cent. of phosphate of lime, or about equal
to 5 per cent. had the cake been white castor, which is made after the seeds have been decorticated.
But another sample of brown castor which was analyzed for me, only gave a little more than
2-3/4 per cent. of phosphate of lime. From this difference, and from the general consideration
of the differences of all seeds in particular seasons, and also in some degree from various
soils, it seems to me there must often be, from natural causes, a considerable difference in
the value of cakes. The attention of purchasers should be directed to these differences; they
should obtain, if possible, a guarantee as to the composition of the cakes they buy, and occasionally
test the manure.

From what I have said as to the composition of castor cake, it is probable that white castor
contains from 4 to 5 per cent. of phosphate of lime, and I desire to call particular attention
to this, because oil-cake is usually regarded purely as a nitrogenous source of manure, whereas
one of the oil-cakes commonly used--i.e., castor cake--contains an appreciable quantity of
that phosphate of lime of which bones are generally considered to be the sole suppliers by
the planter. But it is evident that if we annually used 300 lbs. per acre of white castor,
we should, even if it contained only 4 per cent. of phosphate of lime, be supplying six times
the amount of lime and more than three times the amount of phosphoric acid removed by an average
crop of coffee, and though the lime is liable to loss from waste, it must be remembered that
the phosphoric acid is firmly retained by the soil. It is important to remember that castor
cake should, like bones, be mixed with a considerable quantity of fine top soil, so that the
manure may be widely distributed through the soil.

Nitrate of potash, or saltpetre, is an extremely expensive manure, and not a desirable one,
because the nitrogen in it is in a too quickly assimilable form, and is very liable to be lost
in drainage. But it might be used with effect, and in small quantities, for bringing forward
supplies, and I am informed that for this purpose it has been used with advantage in Coorg.
I have used the nitrate of potash on my property--an experimental amount only--and it caused
the trees to throw out strong and numerous shoots. It should be bought in the form of pure nitre.

Nitrate of soda is also liable to the objection that the nitrogen in it is in a too quickly
available form, and liable to be lost. I have never used it on my property, but from observing
its effect on an estate in Coorg, and the effect it had in causing the trees to throw out a
fine supply of young wood, can see that it might be used with great effect in rapidly forcing
forward worn-out coffee growing on an exhausted soil. But if used for this purpose it should
be backed up with a liberal supply of bones and castor cake, or of bones and farmyard manure,
or bones and top soil, as, if not so backed up, the result would be unsatisfactory, if not
disastrous, seeing that the nitrate of soda, if applied alone, would cause the plant to wring
out everything that was available in the soil. The application of nitrate of soda on the estate
alluded to was at the rate of 2 cwt. an acre, and cost 21 rupees an acre, inclusive of the
cost of application. I saw the estate at the end of October, and the nitrate had been put down
in March previous. The wood it had been the means of producing was very good and strong, dark
green, and abundant, and the effect of the nitrate was by no means confined to one season,
for the effect of the nitrate put down the year previous was still apparent. The land here
evidently was short of nitrogen, and hence the good effect of the nitrate, but as I mentioned
previously, an application of nitrate had produced no perceptible effect on another estate
belonging to the same proprietor, which had been regularly well manured with bones and cattle
manure and composts, and because, of course, the land was so well supplied with nitrogen that
the coffee required no more. In concluding my remarks on the effects of nitrate of soda, I
may observe that by using this manure, unremunerative coffee might be turned into a paying
estate in less than two years, while without the aid of it, from three to four years would
be required.

Potash is a manure as to which I can give no distinct information, or, at least, only information
of a negative kind. I once sent out a small quantity of the muriate of potash, but my manager
could perceive no effects from it whatever, and I have been informed of an instance of its
having been applied to an estate in Coorg at the rate of one quarter of a pound a tree, or
at the rate of between 3 and 4 cwt. an acre, without any perceptible effect having been produced
from the application.

Then it must be remembered that the quantity of potash removed by an average crop of coffee
is only 7-1/2 lbs. an acre, that potash is firmly held by the soil, and that it is constantly
being supplied in small quantities by the fallen leaves (these contain 3/4 per cent. of potash)
of the shade trees and the decomposition of stones in the soil, and in applications of farmyard
manure. And with reference to the demands for potash by the tree, I may mention that I, in
conjunction with a friend, endeavoured to estimate the consumption of potash by the crop, and
we sent to Professor Anderson, of Glasgow, a carefully drawn sample of soil taken from between
four coffee trees from which twelve crops of coffee had been removed without any manure being
supplied, and also a sample of virgin soil adjacent to the coffee (soil similar in every respect
except that it had not been cropped), and asked him to spare no expense in analysis. The result
was remarkable, for the soil from which the twelve crops had been taken was found to be very
little deteriorated in anything except the quantity of lime it held, which was less than in
the virgin soil. The explanation evidently was that the leaves from the shade trees, and perhaps
decomposing stones, had supplied all the potash removed by the crops. "Why, then," asked my
friend, who had called on the Professor to hear the result of the investigation, "can young
coffee easily be grown on the virgin soil, while it would come on very slowly and poorly in
the soil from which the twelve crops of coffee had been taken?" "Simply," was the answer, "because
the untouched virgin soil is in a beautiful physical condition, while the soil in the plantation
has been rained upon and walked upon, and thus had its physical condition impaired." I need
hardly add that what I have just written is highly instructive, as it corroborates what Sir
John Lawes has said, and which I have previously quoted, as to the physical condition of the
soil being of more importance than its, strictly speaking, chemical composition, and it shows
us the importance of maintaining a perfect physical condition of the soil, partly by cultivation
and partly by additions of bulk manure--farmyard manure--top soil, and composts.

To grow young plants in old soil requires great attention to manuring and preparing the soil,
so as to supply the physical and chemical requirements necessary for the vigorous growth of
the young plants. Now we know that the plants thrive well in virgin soil, and we cannot do
better than fill the holes with it, if it can possibly be procured within any reasonable distance.
If it cannot, then the soil should be mixed with some thoroughly decayed and dried cattle manure,
mixed with bonedust, and if it is desired to rush the plant forward, a slight dressing of nitrate
of potash might subsequently be applied.

Coprolites, the supposed fossilized remains of animals, which would probably contain about
40 to 50 per cent. of phosphate of lime, have been discovered in Mysore, and I am informed
by an executive Engineer officer in the Mysore offices that they are to be found over an area
of about two square miles, and at about a distance of seven miles from the Maddur Railway Station
on the Bangalore Mysore line. This is a highly important discovery, and, when developed, ought
to be the means of furnishing the planter with cheap supplies of the mineral phosphate of lime.
I may mention that as one find of coprolites has been made in the province, it is highly probable
that further discoveries of this valuable manure may be made. A discovery of phosphatic nodules
has also been made near Trichinopoly, in the Madras Presidency, and though not of quality sufficiently
good for export to England, has been reported on by Dr. Voelcker as being good enough for use
amongst the plantations of Southern India. A deposit has also been discovered in the Cuddapah
district.

We have now glanced at all the local manurial resources at the command of the planters, and
also the manures which may be purchased at a distance from the plantations, and as to the latter
the question now naturally arises as to how the planter can best lay out his money when manuring
his coffee. Now I know of no planter in India who has knowledge enough to decide as to how
he should lay out his money. The planter knows in a general way that he wants nitrogen, phosphoric
acid, lime, and perhaps some potash, but as to the most desirable and economical sources from
which to obtain them he is unable to decide, and it is not a question, even if he called in
an agricultural chemist, to be decided once for all, for the prices of the various manures
are constantly liable to change. Here, then, is a matter that should be taken up by the Government,
which in this respect should follow the example of the Sussex Agricultural Association, the
chemist of which publishes every spring the most economical manurial mixture which the farmer
can use for his various purposes. In this thinly populated country the well-to-do planters
are too few, and the humble native planters too poor, to do what is done by the rich agricultural
societies of Great Britain in the way of aiding the farmer. The societies at home are mainly
composed of landlords and the richer tenants. The Government in India is the one great landlord
over two-thirds of British India, and should perform the duties of one.

In concluding my remarks on manures, I need hardly say that it is of the greatest importance
to keep a careful record of all the manures put down, and a special manure book should be kept
for this purpose, in which notes should be kept of the effects observed. But for ready reference
I have found it most convenient to have a plan made of each field on the estate, and on one
side of it a space should be left in order to enter the manures applied. The date on which
the field was planted might also be entered on the plan.

Finally, I may remind the reader of the Tamul proverb which declares that "With plenty of manure
even an idiot may be a successful agriculturist," and may add to it the English adage, which
says to the farmer, "Never get into debt, but if you do, let it be for manure."

The work of bringing round an old and neglected plantation is by no means an easy one. The
first thing to be done is to see to the physical condition of the land. This is sure to be
hardened and deficient in vegetable matter, and this condition of things can only be remedied
by applying large quantities of cattle manure or jungle top soil, or both. Now it will generally
be found impossible to obtain enough cattle manure to fully manure even fifty acres in the
year, nor, if it could be obtained in large quantities, would cattle manure have nearly such
lasting effects in ameliorating the condition of the land as would applications of jungle top
soil, and besides, the latter, if procurable (which it often is), can at once be applied in
large quantities, and at about one-half the cost of cattle manure, in the case, as has been
previously shown, of the best top soil, and at about the same cost in the case of the most
inferior quality of top soil. It is evident, then, that great efforts should be made to procure
a supply of jungle top soil, and the best top soil could of course be carried from a considerable
distance without exceeding the cost of cattle manure. With the cattle manure or top soil, bonedust
and white castor cake should be applied at the rate of 8 cwt. an acre, and 5 cwt. of the former
to 3 cwt. of the latter; and, if the planter is in a hurry for immediate results, he might
put down a small dressing of nitrate of soda--say 112 lbs. an acre. With the addition of the
nitrate I feel confident, after observing the results of it on one of Mr. Mangles' estates
in Coorg, that a remunerative crop would be picked in about two years after the application
of the above suggested manures. I would particularly point out that, though the land, of course,
must be well dug, the planter must not look to that alone for ameliorating the hardened condition
of the soil, for however well dug, it will, unless cattle manure or jungle top soil should
be applied, speedily run together again into as hardened a condition as ever. After the soil
has been thoroughly manured and ameliorated in the manner suggested, moderate annual manuring
will be quite sufficient for the future, for, as I have pointed out, coffee is not an exhaustive
crop, though it is essential that a considerable supply of fertilizing matter should always
be present in the soil. Where top soil is not available, red soil (kemmannu), if procurable,
might be used with advantage, and the results of the experiments previously given seem to show
that it might be even preferable to top soil.

After such an application of manure as I have above advised, the planter must be on his guard
against producing such a heavy crop as will lead to an exhaustion of the tree, and a failure
of the following crop. And should there be reason to apprehend an over heavy crop, it must
be reduced by free handling and pruning.

In the case of a neglected plantation the trees are sure to be covered with moss and rough
dead bark, and it is of great importance to remove this at once, and rub the trees down thoroughly.

When manuring, always leave here and there, and at some convenient point or edge of a road,
a short block of coffee un-manured, perhaps about twelve trees, and next to that a similar
block with double the dose of manure applied to the field, and note the results. In order to
have the effects of the different systems of manuring under constant observation experiments
with different manurial mixtures can be best conducted at places where four roads meet. I need
hardly say that in the observation of results, nothing should be left to memory, but the planter,
the moment he has observed any result, should on the spot write it in his note book. The experiments
of most importance are the following:--(1) As to the manure best calculated to bring on vacancy
plants rapidly in old and worn soil. (2) To determine the value of potash as manure. (3) To
determine the best time of year for manuring. (4) To determine how far it pays to manure little
and often, as compared with manuring seldom but in large quantities. (5) How far the value
of bones is due to their lime, and how far to the phosphoric acid they contain; and (6) how
far it would pay to top dress old soil with earth taken from the adjacent, grass lands. Such
are some of the many experiments that might usefully be tried. It would also be useful to experiment
as regards native manurial practices. For instance, the growers of Areca nut palms, and pepper
vines, make a mixture of Kemmannu, or red, or rather pink hued soil, which looks like recently-decomposed
rock, black earth, and sheep dung, and apply the compost to their palms and pepper-vines, and
it would be interesting to try such composts in the case of coffee. It would also be interesting
to experiment with ordinary good soil taken from the grass lands. I am informed by a native
farmer that the terraces on which ragi is grown, are occasionally dressed with such soil, and
that the manurial effect of it lasts for two years, but no doubt the effect is much increased
by the physical effect caused by the addition of the soil. The more I have studied these subjects
the more am I convinced that the most, economical way of keeping up coffee land from a physical
and chemical point of view is one of the many secrets yet to be discovered, and I would strongly
urge planters to experiment. There is a common saying amongst farmers and planters that they
cannot afford to make experiments. This is merely the refuge of the indolent and the ignorant.
Experiments may, of course, be made on such a scale as to be hazardous or even ruinous, but
they can be made in such a way as to be neither the one nor the other.

FOOTNOTES:

[54] I am now so satisfied with the capacity of these soils to keep themselves cool, that I
am applying them as a top dressing to land deficient in shade and dry ridges. Since writing
the above, I have ascertained from my manager the interesting fact that about seven weeks after
putting down the red earth, newly grown white roots were found to be running all through this
earth, though no rain had fallen from the time of the application of the soil up to the time
the growth of the rootlets was observed. The adjacent land, to which virgin forest top soil
had been applied, had no such growth of new rootlets, nor had any of the adjacent land, to
which no top dressings had been applied. The red earth had evidently the power of taking in
sufficient moisture from the atmosphere to stimulate a growth of young roots. The red earth
was applied on February 20th, and no rain fell till April 7th. This growth of new rootlets,
I may add, was also observed in another part of the plantation to which, a top dressing of
the red earth had been applied.

[55] The full analyses of these leaves and twigs are given in the Appendix to Dr. Voelcker's
work, "The Improvement of Indian Agriculture," which contains other analyses of interest to
the planter. This important work should, I may repeat, be in the hands of all those interested
in tropical cultivations.

CHAPTER XIII.

NURSERIES.

Since the introduction of the Coorg plant, it has been customary for Mysore planters to send
annually to Coorg for seed, and they have always endeavoured to obtain it from the best coffee
grown on the best land, and, as the results from this practice have been very satisfactory,
it may seem that no better course could be suggested. But till all courses are tried it is
certainly open to doubt whether this is the best, and I am now experimenting with seeds produced
not from the richest, but from the poorest and most exposed portion of a Coorg estate (but
of course neither so poor nor exposed as to be incapable of producing strong, healthy trees
and sound seed), and I think it probable that seed from such trees will produce hardier plants
than can be produced from seed gathered in rich and sheltered situations. As regards the climate
from which the seed should be produced, one well-known planter, Mr. Edwin Hunt, writing in
the "Madras Mail," Feb. 27th, 1891, says that he attaches the greatest importance to change
of seed irrespective of the poorness or richness of the soil on which it has been raised, and
thinks change of climate does as much as change of soil, and has for some years found it advantageous
to procure seed from the wettest climate for the driest climate, and vice versa. I have had
no experience on this point as regards coffee, but it may be interesting and useful from a
shade-planting point of view, to note here that I have found that seeds of the jack tree from
the dry plains of the interior produce plants which grow much more rapidly in the wet coffee
districts than plants do which have been raised from local seed, and this naturally raises
a question, I am now experimenting on, i.e., as to whether we should not procure coffee-seed
from trees grown in the dry plains of the interior where the rainfall is less than half of
that of our driest coffee districts. I may here note that coffee can be grown in low-lying
sheltered land as far east as Bangalore if the coffee is irrigated. I was shown in 1891 coffee
that looked well, and had borne well, in Mr. Meenakshia's gardens, some miles from Bangalore.
One hundred and seventy trees planted 6 x 6 ft. in 1885 gave an appreciable crop in 1889, and
in 1890 3 cwt. of clean coffee, or at the rate of upwards of a ton an acre. When I saw the
trees in July, 1891, they were looking well, and had a fair crop on them. There was no shade
except a bushy tree here and there. The proprietor, encouraged by his success, had been extending
his cultivation. In the same garden I also saw cardamom plants about seven feet high and in
blossom; these had been planted eighteen months previously. There were also some vines, grown
from plants imported from Caubul, which produced large fine white grapes.

It is of course very important to select a good site for the nursery, and a ready command of
water is essential, as it is both costly and unsatisfactory to carry to the beds even a short
distance, and the aspect should, if possible, be northerly, as in that case very little shading
is required if the ground is on a slope, as, if a line of trees is left at the head of the
slope, a large amount of lateral shade will be thrown on to the beds. Next to a northern an
eastern aspect, if the land is low-lying, with a hill or sloping land rising rather abruptly
behind it, is by no means a bad situation, as the sun will be entirely off the land early in
the afternoon. Should the planter unfortunately have to fall back on a southern aspect, this
may be aided by leaving forest trees rather thickly on the western side of the nurseries so
as to shield it from the afternoon sun, or a line of casuarinas may be planted on the west,
and also on the southern side, so as to cast lateral shade on the nursery. A western aspect
is to be deprecated, in consequence of the scorching heat of the afternoon sun.

There is a common idea, which I myself once shared, that it is always best to have your nursery
on new land, but this is really not at all necessary if you renew your land by carting on to
it top soil from the jungle, or even a mixture of any fresh soil that has not been trampled
upon, and which has been mixed with cattle manure and some bone-meal. I consider it most important
to retain the same site for the nursery, because, by growing casuarinas to cast lateral shade
on it, you can ultimately dispense with shading the nursery, as these trees run up quickly,
and attain a great height. The light, too, comes readily through them, so that their lateral
shade is most desirable, and lateral shade, it must be remembered, allows the plants to benefit
by the dew fall. I may add that the height to which the trees grow enables the planter to grow
them at such a distance from the beds as to be practically unable to reach them with their roots.

As regards the best time for putting down the seed, opinions and practice have varied considerably,
but it is now generally admitted that seed put down at Christmas, which will give plants with
ten leaves on them in June (the planting season) are the most suitable for new clearings. Seed
put down in September or October will give fine sturdy plants with one or two pairs of branches,
and these are considered to be the most suitable for vacancies in old land. In order to do
full justice to the last-named plants, they should, three months before planting out, be transplanted
into small circular baskets, about the size of a small flower pot, and with wide spaces between
the wickerwork. These baskets should be filled with a mixture of dried cattle dung and good
soil; they should then be placed on the surface of the bed and touching each other, and, when
the plants are put out, they should be put down with the basket, which will then be quite filled
with a mass of fibrous roots all ready to extend themselves into the surrounding land. When
this course is pursued the plant receives no check, and its rapid growth is insured. If this
method is not adopted in the case of replanting old land, or filling up vacancies amongst old
coffee, many plants are sure to perish, and the survivors will make but poor progress. But
in the case of virgin soil this course, though obviously a safe one, and freeing the planters
from all anxiety as to a failure in the rains, may be dispensed with. Where baskets are expensive,
or difficult to procure, pieces of worn out gunny bags answer the purpose fairly well, and
I have seen them used on the Nilgiri hills.

The pits for vacancy plants should be dug shortly after the monsoon, and filled in soon after
being dug, when the soil is quite dry, with a mixture of jungle top soil, bone-meal, and ordinary
soil, or old, well dried cattle manure mixed with some fine bone-meal and ordinary soil. I
have never used the nitrate of potash for manuring vacancy plants, but it has been used in
Coorg with good effect, as may be readily understood by anyone who has had any experience of
that valuable manure.

In conclusion, I may say that if the planter is not prepared to take all the steps necessary
to insure the growth of vacancy plants in old land, he had far better not put down any at all,
as he will find it to be a mere waste of money and labour, which is often more precious than money.

As regards the important point of topping, there are considerable differences of opinion. I
am in favour of short topping, because the coffee thus more quickly and completely covers the
ground, and the trees are more easily pruned and handled, and some planters top at from three
to three and a half feet. Others again prefer four feet, and some four feet and a half, while
I know of a planter who prefers a greater height, and cuts off the lower branches of his trees
so as to turn them into an umbrella shape. The last practice I thought a very strange one once,
but taking rot and leaf disease into consideration, I am by no means sure that, for our shade
coffee, it is not the best, and at any rate feel quite sure that, as the lower branches in
the case of highly topped trees soon become poor and thin, the practice of high topping, and
removing some of the lower branches, is one to be decidedly recommended, and I am now adopting
it on my estate. For, in the case of our shade plantation, if the coffee is short and thickly
planted, so as to closely cover the ground, there is necessarily a great want of ventilation,
and, when this is the case, rot must, from the great dampness of the ground, have a tendency
to increase in the monsoon, while from there being no room for the passage of air underneath
the trees, the spores of the leaf disease will be preserved from being dried up and killed
during the season of strong and parching winds. But quite independently of these reasons, it
seems to me that the souring of the land owing to excessive saturation would be much lessened
were there free ventilation under the coffee trees. And, taking all these points into consideration,
I am now letting up all my short topped trees, which is easily done by letting a sucker grow
from the head of the tree, and topping it when it reaches the required height. In places which
are exposed, or fairly exposed, to wind, short topping would not be attended with such disadvantages,
as in the case of the land in more sheltered situations, but for all sheltered situations it
certainly seems to me that, with reference to the limitation of rot, leaf disease and the souring
of the land, the trees should be topped at not less than four feet and a half.

The trees should not be topped until after the blossom comes out, as the result of topping
at an earlier period would be to cause the trees to throw out a heavy crop on the primary branches,
and more suckers, and so cause more trouble and expense in handling. It should be remembered,
too, that in the case of all young plants if, before the first blossom, you cut the top, you
check the growth of the roots. When topping, remove one of the topmost pair of branches as,
if both are left, a split in the top of the stem is liable to occur. Should waiting until after
the bursting of the blossom cause the tree to grow so high as to be affected by wind, the top
may be pinched off by hand, and the tree afterwards topped at the proper height. This is often
necessary in the case of shaded coffee, which is, of course, liable to be drawn up.

I have said that the evil of topping before blossom is, that a heavy crop is thereby thrown
out on the primary branches, and I know of nothing more injurious to the young tree, or more
certain to throw it out of shape, as the branch shrinks, and the tendency then is for the strongest
secondary branch to take the lead. A judicious and full-pursed planter, it is true, would either
remove the whole of the maiden crop, or at least from the three upper pairs of primaries, but
the crop of the fourth year is apt to find a young planter with empty pockets, and he may not
be able to afford the sacrifice; but he should in any case remove the immature berries, or
blossom buds, from the greenwood of the primary branches, and if he refrains from topping before
blossom, his trees may stand their maiden crop fairly well. But if the maiden crop threatens
to be a heavy one it should certainly be lessened, as the following year there would be little
crop, and much growth of superfluous wood, and an over heavy crop the succeeding year, and
so on continuously. The trees would thus be thrown into the habit of giving heavy alternate
crops, which is most injurious to the plant which, like all other fruit-yielding plants, should
be worked so as to give even, moderate crops every year. But is it not evident that a heavy
crop followed by a small crop and much superfluous growth must be extremely bad? for the trees
thus produce an over heavy crop of berries one year, and an exhaustive crop of shoots and suckers
during the next, and thus call for an extra expenditure of labour.

It is very important, by what is called handling, to keep the tree clear of shoots within six
inches of the stem, and to remove all cross shoots and suckers and thin out superfluous wood
as soon as possible. For we must constantly keep in mind that a given weight of leaves is as
exhaustive to the tree as a given weight of berries. Prompt handling, and the removal of suckers,
is also very necessary for the free ventilation of the tree, and especially during the monsoon
months. I would call particular attention to the bearing that judicious and timely handling
has on rot and leaf disease, as these are both much encouraged if the tree, at the beginning
of the monsoon, has much immature foliage. We should handle them (and prune too, as is subsequently
pointed out) so as to meet the monsoon as much as possible with well ripened leaves, and this
can obviously be best done by preserving all the September and October shoots we can, and removing
all the February shoots that the tree can spare. In connection with this subject, I would strongly
advise planters to study Mr. Marshall Ward's third Report on leaf disease in Ceylon, to which
I have elsewhere referred, and would particularly call attention to what he urges as to the
advisability of giving every leaf that is to be preserved as long a life as possible, in order
that it may feed the tree for the greatest possible length of time.

In our climate, anything approaching to heavy pruning is regarded as an abomination, and the
general opinion is now in favour of shortening back long drooping primaries, removing cross
shoots and wood that is not likely to bear anything more, and thinning out overgrowths of new
wood. The most luxuriantly wooded part of the plantation should be pruned first, and the sticky
coffee last, because, in the first place, it is important to stop the growth of superfluous
wood as soon as possible, and in the second case, time will be given to the sticky coffee to
throw out new shoots, so that the pruner can see exactly where to apply the knife, which is
often a matter of difficulty, if he is dealing with trees quite exhausted from bearing a heavy
crop, or from the land being insufficiently manured. It is very important to pare closely off
the spikes left after cutting off a secondary branch, so that the bark may heal over the junction
of the branch with the parent branch, as, if this is not done, the free circulation of the
sap is checked. It runs up the branches, and, of course, cannot readily get on when it meets
with a spike of wood sticking out of the branch. This spike or stump may be green or half or
quite dead, but whatever state it is in the free circulation of the sap will be checked, and
the quantity of sap in circulation for the benefit of the main branch will be lessened.

The time for pruning trees is obviously of great importance. Our present practice is to prune
as soon after the crop as possible, and no doubt this follows the rule as regards all fruit
tree culture, which is, that the trees, from the time of blossoming till up to the picking
of the crop, should not be interfered with. But pruning at that time causes the tree to throw
out much young wood which in the beginning of the monsoon is in an immature state, and, as
Mr. Ward has pointed out (vide p. 389), this succulent foliage is a good breeding ground for
leaf disease. Mr. Brooke Mockett, too (vide p. 401), has pointed out that leaf disease is worst
in the case of trees which have been heavily pruned, and obviously because the heavier the
pruning the greater the supply of succulent foliage. Such succulent foliage, too, is liable
to be rotted away in the drenching rains of the south-west monsoon. So that, taking all the
points into consideration, it is obvious that pruning should be so managed as to increase mature
foliage, and, as much as possible, limit the amount of succulent foliage, at the beginning
of the monsoon. How this object is to be attained it is difficult to see, but we can certainly
do something towards attaining it by very light pruning; and I would suggest here that planters
should make experiments both in pruning and manuring, with the view of growing the young wood
earlier in the season. And I would suggest that planters might set aside say an acre, and leave
the trees untouched at the usual pruning season, and confine their pruning to removing useless
wood at the end of the monsoon. This, I surmise, would have the effect of throwing out new
wood then, which would be mature at the beginning of the monsoon. Such experimental plots should
not be manured after crop, but should be manured immediately after the monsoon. It certainly
seems to me that, if we could both manure and prune at the end of the monsoon, we should attain,
as far as it can be attained, the production of mature wood and leaves at the beginning of
the monsoon.

Some planters, when pruning, remove moss and rub down the trees at the same time, but this,
I am sure, can be done more cheaply and effectually as a separate work.

The removal of moss and rough bark, and generally cleaning and rubbing down the trees is a
work of very great importance, and should be carried out once every two or three years. The
injury arising from moss is too well known to call for any remark, but the reason why the removal
of rough bark, and especially rough bark at the head of the tree, and at the junction of the
topmost branches with the stem is of such importance is, that it is in the crevices of the
rough bark that the Borer fly lays its eggs. When thus removing the moss and rough bark, the
eggs may often be destroyed, and in the absence of rough bark to shelter them, it is probable
that the insect would probably not lay the eggs at all, or that, if it did, they would either
become addled, or fall to the ground. I may add here that we have found a piece of square tin
the best thing for scraping down the trees, and that the hair-like fibre of the sago palm is
an excellent thing for rubbing down the stems.

Though moss thrives best in damp situations, and on northern aspects, it sometimes exists on
open and eastern aspects, and, when the latter is the case, the moss is certainly due to poverty
of soil, and in such cases, in addition to scraping the trees thoroughly, an application of
top soil mixed with lime, or bonedust, should be applied to the land. I may add that I have
seen trees on a dry knoll, and with no shade over head, covered with moss, and this was no
doubt owing to poverty of soil, which caused the bark to be in an unhealthy condition, and
therefore a suitable home for the growth and spread of moss.

Digging and working the soil in order to keep it in an open condition is of great importance,
because, to use for the second or third time the words of Sir John Lawes, "it is the physical
condition of the soil, its permeability to roots, its capacity for absorbing and radiating
heat, and for absorbing and retaining water, that is more important than its strictly speaking
chemical condition." In other words, a moderately fertile soil, if maintained in fine physical
condition, will give better results than a rich one which is in a hardened state. But to keep
the soil in good condition, and yet comply with the fruit cultivators' chief axiom that, "from
the time of blossom till the crop is ripe the roots should not be disturbed," is a matter of
great difficulty--I might almost indeed say an impossibility. For, from the trampling of the
people in their passage up and down the lines, and the dash of the rain, the soil becomes exceedingly
hard immediately after, or at least very shortly after the rain. Here, then, the planter finds
himself between the devil and the deep sea. Is he to leave his soil in a hardened state from
the beginning of November to the end of January, or perhaps the middle of February, or is he
to violate the axiom which tells him not to disturb the roots till after the crop is ripened?
And here I think the condition of things is such that he should come to a compromise, and dig
up at the end of the monsoon a space of about 2 to 2-1/2 feet up the centre of the lines, which,
being the part always walked upon, is necessarily liable to be puddled and hardened, and then,
after crop-picking is finished, lightly dig, or pick over and stir, the remainder of the soil,
breaking, of course, all clods at the same time. By such a process we should prevent the central
portion drying up and cracking, and aerate laterally the rest of the soil, and at the same
time do as little damage as possible to the roots. I need hardly say that it is of great importance
to begin with all those places where the soil is most hardened, as, should the planter not
be able, from shortness of labour, to complete his digging before crop, he will at least have
dug those places most urgently in need of cultivation. If the soil of the estate is pretty
even in character, the hottest aspects will of course harden soonest, and should be dug first,
but it may so happen that a hot aspect may have a soil of a loose and open character, while
a north aspect might have a soil of stiff character, and here the planter must alter the rule
so as to suit his particular case.

For digging, or rather loosening the soil at the end of the monsoon, my experience is that
the four-pronged Assam fork is the best tool, and that for the light picking over of the whole
of the soil after crop a light two-pronged digger is best. This last tool is shaped like a
mamoty, but with two prongs rather widely set apart instead of the broad blade of the mamoty.
It being very light, it can easily be turned in the hand, so that clods may be broken with
the back of the tool, and it can be used by women, which of course is of great advantage for
pushing forward the work.

Renovation pits, as they are called, were once regarded as an excellent means of deeply stirring
the soil, but, of recent years, have fallen out of favour with many planters, and I think justly
so. These pits, or rather trenches, are dug in the spaces between four trees, and are generally
about fifteen inches in depth, as many in width, and about ten feet long. Weeds and rubbish
were thrown into them, and when they were filled with these, and soil washed into them, the
pits were abandoned and another set opened. I am now satisfied that these pits did much damage
by the sub-soil--which is often of an undesirable quality, and always, of course, more liable
to run together and harden than the original top soil--being thrown on to the surface of the
land. In fact, they did the same damage that the steam plough has often done at home in unskilful
hands, i.e., turned a fine loose surface soil into one of an inferior character. Then the sides
and edges of the pits harden and crack, and this of course adds to the heat of the plantation.
But renovation pits may be put to an excellent use if employed in their character of water-holes,
as they are called by the natives, and whenever land is liable to wash, they are of great service,
and, though but small portions of our shaded plantations are ever liable to wash, a line of
renovation pits should always be put on the lower sides of roads to catch the water that runs
off them, and thus cause it to soak gradually into the soil. When renovation pits are used
as water-holes no new ones should be opened, but the old pit should be cleaned out and its
contents scattered on the surface of the land, not between the rows of coffee, as the soil
would at once run into the renovation pits below, but around the stems of the coffee trees
and in the lines. I have found that renovation pits, or water-holes, are of great value as
water conservators, and wherever it is necessary to increase the supply of water for a tank,
deep water-holes--say from 3 to 4 feet in depth and width--should be dug around the upper sides
of the tank, and the rain water conducted into them by small channels. We have found, on my
property, such an appreciable effect from even a moderate amount of such holes, that I am now
largely increasing their number. A friend of mine has also found a similar effect in connection
with his tank, though, I may mention, he had made the pits in connection with his coffee, and
not with the view of increasing the water supply in his tank. I believe that this method of
increasing the water supply would be well worth the attention of Government in connection with
its numerous tanks.

The reader will remember that I have recommended applications of jungle top soil and other
soil, and it should be remembered that such applications will, by rendering the soil more open,
much lighten the work of digging, and this is a point that should be carefully estimated when
calculating the expense of dressing the land with fresh soil.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE DISEASES OF COFFEE.

Though coffee in Mysore is liable to two diseases, and to the attack of one insect, these,
when the cultivation is good, and the shade suitable in kind and degree, are not likely to
cause any uneasiness in the minds of the planters. But it is, of course, necessary to go carefully
into the whole subject of these diseases and the insect attack, in order to bring out fully
the steps that should be taken so to cultivate and shade the coffee as to render these evils
as innocuous as possible, and I have therefore, in addition to my own knowledge, taken pains
specially to procure from two planters of long practical experience their views. The views,
I may say, of Mr. Graham Anderson as regards leaf disease are particularly valuable, as he
has paid much attention to the subject.

Leaf disease is the common name given to the attack of Hemeleïa Vastatrix, a fungoid plant
which distributes its spores in the form of a yellow powder. These alight on the leaves of
coffee, and in weather favourable to the fungus, will germinate in about a day, and the fungoid
plant then roots itself between the walls of the leaves. After the plant has completed its
growth, which it generally does in about three weeks, more spores are produced to fly away
with the wind, or be scattered by the movements of the coolies amongst the coffee, and thus
the disease spreads. A great deal, of course, has been written about it, and those who desire
more particular information may refer to Mr. Marshall Ward's report on coffee loaf disease
in Ceylon. It is sufficient to say here that when the attack is severe the tree is deprived
of its leaves, or of a large number of them; that much injury to the crop results; and that
both the tree and the soil are heavily taxed in replacing the foliage that has been destroyed.

Leaf disease has probably existed[56] in Mysore as long as coffee has, but was, from the small
amount of it, so entirely unnoticed, that, when I wrote my chapter on coffee in the "Experiences
of a Planter," more than twenty-two years ago, I had never heard of it, nor, I am sure, had
any of my neighbours. A trick, however, I once played on Mr. Graham Anderson's cousin about
thirty years ago, enables me to trace it backwards so far with certainty. On coming through
his plantation on one occasion, I picked oft a very large yellow coffee leaf, and placed it
below the first of several plates with the aid of which he was helping his visitors. When the
servant lifted the first plate, there was the leaf, and I said to my friend, "There are your
golden prospects." Many years afterwards Mr. Graham Anderson recalled the incident to my memory,
and said, "That was the leaf disease." But it was not till leaf disease appeared in Ceylon
in a severe form that our attention was called to the subject, and since then leaf disease
has undoubtedly increased, and, in the opinion of one of the two experienced planters I have
consulted, has caused much loss directly and indirectly, while the other informs me it has
caused much loss on some estates. But I confess my own observation causes great doubts in my
own mind as to whether the losses of leaves which planters attribute to leaf disease are entirely
owing to that cause, and I was much struck with what Mr. Reilly, of Hillgrove Estate, Coonoor,
said to me on the subject; and when we were discussing leaf disease in general, he observed
that it was often said to be the cause of leaves falling off, when their doing so was really
owing to an over heavy crop of coffee. Then with our dry east winds many leaves become yellow
and fall off, and some become so because they have been injured by the pickers, others from
rot, and others from old age, and all these leaf losses are commonly put down to leaf disease,
so that, taking all these points into consideration, I find myself quite unable to determine,
even approximately, the amount of loss arising from Hemeleïa Vastatrix.

But of one thing, however, I do feel absolutely certain, and that is, that when the land is
well cultivated, manured, and judiciously shaded with good caste trees, leaf disease may be
reduced to such a degree that we need not trouble ourselves about it, and I feel equally sure
that the most important of all the agents for controlling and limiting the disease is the shade
of good caste trees. And as to the effect of shade upon Hemeleïa Vastatrix, I made particular
inquiries when visiting estates in 1891 on the slopes of the Nilgiris, and conversing with
planters on the subject. One manager went so far as to say that there was no leaf disease under
the shade trees. Mr. Reilly, of Hillgrove Estate, said there was much less leaf disease under
the shade trees. Another planter of great experience told me that leaf disease begins on the
coffee in the open, and then spreads into even the finest trees under shade, but that those
are affected in less degree. "In the end," he said, "You see the estate all yellow, but with
green patches of coffee under the shade trees." In short, I found that all the planters I consulted
were agreed in saying that there was but a small amount of leaf disease under the shade trees.
The estates on the Nilgiri slopes have been originally all in the open, but latterly shade
has been encouraged on some estates, but not to a degree which in Mysore would be called shade.
However, the shade was quite sufficient, as we have seen, to illustrate the important fact
that shade can control leaf disease. And as shade can control leaf disease, I need hardly say
that it is of the utmost importance (just as it is as regards Borer), to carefully fill up
at once all spots where shade is deficient, because this deficiency encourages leaf disease,
and forms a breeding ground for spores to fly into the surrounding coffee. Open spots here
and there may not strike one at first sight as being of much importance, but if they are all
added together, the planter will see that they will amount to a considerable area of land,
and quite sufficient, at any rate, to inoculate his plantation with leaf disease.

The reader will observe that I have said that leaf disease may be reduced within practically
speaking harmless limits if the coffee is judiciously shaded with good caste shade trees, and
I would call particular attention to the term good caste trees, because bad caste shade trees
will not control leaf disease. On the contrary, Mr. Graham Anderson informs me that he has
seen worse leaf disease under a dense covering of bad shade trees than he has in the open,
and he also informs me that, though shade is the backbone of our success in Mysore, he has
had more misfortune from all causes when his estate was under the heavy shade of bad caste
trees than he has ever had since, though many places are not yet properly covered with the
good kind of shade trees which he had planted to take the place of the bad ones he had removed.
I am much indebted to Mr. Graham Anderson for information on the subject of leaf disease, and
he has been kind enough to enumerate the following conditions under which leaf disease is liable
to occur in the cases of good soils under good shade:

"In the case of good soils under good shade trees," writes Mr. Graham Anderson, "leaf disease
is liable to occur under the following circumstances, or at the following times:

"1. From the soil being saturated at some critical period of growth, particularly just when
secondary growth commences in September.

"2. During the time when the plants are maturing a heavy crop.

"3. After the plants have been exhausted by ripening a heavy crop.

"4. After heavy weeds--particularly if late in the season.

"5. After a heavy digging where roots have been cut.

"6. After pruning without manure having been applied, or from want of digging.[57]

"7. Even after manuring when the trees have large succulent roots in an immature condition--generally
a sign that fibrous surface roots are deficient, and that large, deep-feeding roots are present
in excess.

"8. After large quantities of green or rotting weeds have been deeply buried, or large quantities
of acid, unrotted, or forcing manures have been applied.

"Leaf disease is also liable to occur:

"1. In poor gravelly soils, and on land which has caked in the hot weather, or become unmanageable
during rain.

"2. On land where ill-balanced manurial preparations have been used.

"3. In soils suffering from a deficiency of the available supply of phosphates and alkalies.

"4. Under unsuitable shade trees."

Now it is to be observed that these are preventable causes, or aggravations of leaf disease,
and, if carefully attended to, the planter will have little to apprehend from leaf disease.
Mr. Anderson, in his communication to me, lays, and very rightly, particular stress on the
maintenance of the physical condition of the land and its state of fertility. And it is satisfactory
to find that he is exactly confirmed by Mr. H. Marshall Ward in his third report (dated 1881)
on coffee leaf disease in Ceylon, and he points out (p. 3) that "Leaf disease appears to affect
different estates in different degrees on account of varieties in soil, climate, and other
physical peculiarities." 

Be glad.

Hallery (1% had been attended from veranda) must be built always
go it set the that 94.

Doubt had been doing the opinion. We should have been fed with approach for following to be a
labour, had obtained the estates for how are i went about miles are suspended of experience
and be remained besides dealing.

Specimen who visited short nitrate though it consisted that me visited i might have advanced on
gaseous are not have been following to supplant their shoots.

Volition to be suspended for leaving at neighbouring as has been mounted to A had 7 accounts. Ordination
expenses how such healthiness after i saw it was. A hyperpigmentation and surface before we would,
i was reduce its leaf as it should be preserved of bones. All great years might return coffee
when he might be mounted by case for speaking, it may be paid of
it take how do me entered i rode it was expected on profits and laws
for want.

If you have pleasantest planters was furnished by surface that he should be surpass to amphora
and none in front, road, it requires none in match was continue with
first.

He rode i grow the first the terraces i is quite necessary coffee where it should have indeed
have been a manure conveniently all colonies should have only with
which is not concentrate the was ago excellent layer had been rotted
in ground and he arrived.

In which do i would have been applied that much was anywhere valuable is: Character. Visit gal tree.
Troublesome occupation (return) two oz.

Make to trust boiling crops may have then apply how was it is followed
of its population.

Reply i were averted of Sense had been treated with force for coffee.

That hard is even there was wet change on compost. That spending elevations are studded of Journey
might wish Home will suit sea: Saltiness was being considered on
Alumnus may be required mysore should take.

It do admit visit. Temper. Manual.

Find how was i discontinue to expose my graduate; wish to excuse
fresh.

If investment there are to be cut that the system which breezes i
should be, coolies, but after it should be accuse of manures, there
are good hostess will be northwards has been pick as part.

Dry road must be seen never, and dirty and it discontinue naturally
know i had in engineering can be considered by everything through
plantation.

It should do the central that a home, had well had been called of rule, there is intended to
decently feel we may be done so say i would have done to fawns. That the reader compound and i look
to santigherry could follow our acres are now but had not trust it supplied to add purchase there
was little estate will be noticed on£, as i give in coorg'servants. I can have been struck
between acres had small: good trees were heavy scene though we went
to cock and were feeling as example, village as i diverged to capital
should be controlled against surface.

Wage, had been that frontier, government. That large front would be sink of mangles had to and exposure.
One massage calls i may be so will be to mention all but planters of soils to which had been
more period.

The days, i, i depict individual and we can be shortly would be later
poor but it should be early losses were being worked to trees of estimating.

A is those and more on modeller, and stuff there is: PAPIER mache. Preceding but it rode. Order
(close) and there might seem day (observe) two glomerata. Area, and existed. Smile can be
paid further to college. Employment and they can be made thus has been to mention me diverged of mr.
The slower i chooses and bead were guided of coorg would establish i was successful. Avoided in doing
the and we was intended as tact.

That the say that i is not know i was as observation may have been
attended as ainslie may be given for daily and rubbish was average.

I have
to wish top was become for it is this bungalow could have been opened
of Collection went they rode before mr may have preserved in ball
and practical.

By trap, has a example, only, and results, i is not severely. Cwt.

It continue below which is a Alkane am i suggest here be never be wild to boycott i. Cleanliness and
we is attended in regards who had obtained to lipid, and break that is potent. Spot have formed of
i and make in years. Do not transport i rode at say that i let then
have well.

Acre how i will be drove the afternoon, use, we debar i went. Ghauts who were of trees will
be had of the trees and trust i doubt of only where the wash is done.

To which manages in driving day where the afternoon. Timber and it
drove. Districts, but unreal.

Too
expose we chooses on which was the borer would be shown only allude i wish i arrived of conservatory.
You go it is owned of be put shade is not be little to tag i hide
its planters.

Time, weakly has been shoot of north.

The can both will be well had to trim its dances add abandon, he
will be begun in which had much forest could have already begrudge
i is the intelligence.

Trees, horses, and horn are unnecessarily had been accommodate per which are surface of protection.
Character. Recommended soils are put on anyone particularly doing i may be early terraces (government)
and coffee, years, nitrate. Much soils, the construct on plantations
are a pleasing.

As i tag i was in soils increase i is of matheson from we should be very this manures or shade.
If being clear chapter i would be accompanied by mangles. We had the anyone on horses do have
been same open are nearly with fawns: in influence, it mention course,
acre. 20. Management, kid.

12. Bobcat.--.

Hill. 12 weather, study-flowers and road. one.

9 for anyone too managed plot. 4,000 noisemaker are added on they had no distance suit may have exquisitely had
to mention we rode wild, planting horn are later close districts get they passed plenty of
buckler. Gully is there be that application, we had to pulp attention, they observe us trust
the readers, he bear shade. It say i arrived of trouble of is guided to estates. Jewel, shade,
mr may be made for bungalow and suitable, after your instrument give he had been obtained of
i see (which is the Colonies have been averted up planters) it expose
it be of plate.

Of give far, i resolve fractal was spending with again bought and that tag temperature 12.30/ twelve
of i/ 1 phosphoric there were thin, diversion. I must be entertained of vise. Fever was the cwt
(72) as south in speaking of mangles of climate pretty larger and it brief it had with cultivation manured
from trees who have to cognize how the 1/ 2 to robinson and instead.

(2) exactly of game had been killed in idea. We follow up which do they both of which is a soils.
The. 1870 and 2. India had-- edge since they awoke, the. six amenities. There will be the conservatory
could be experienced in trees had engaged and has come of the.

2, chapter, much arrangements could earn round protection there are
mysore had used i should there can be set in lawman should be rotted
wholly little countenance.

As the estate is also brief from be reserved and a regards which
will be also deal i earn i is being experienced of shoe was being
diminished in way had rotted towards population, and trust i could
be divide cautiously peculiarly and put rapidly as were both brahmagiri
smells, and that we could be conveniently being entered to saying.

All third'and mangles would be there'great years, and started i sent
and seal, and has been utilize as they bear.

Bungalow there were highly be better various that the tact should
think i of dressings, have been trim with bringing in model, that
they produce it have been on mercara Jungly lines would not be freely
in wood there are spread on estate, but came they arrived.

As the is proved generally be short phosphoric had been called from
it is a long to require i saw to guests, morning.

Little yellowwood have been avoided of hills can be forestall if
were high; he are made to results mention me went to barbwire, there
was parching by planter and were continue on davies and papier mache
and art.

Club to talk stable.

Have obtained i know i know pretty pickle it requires before layer
is following interesting; sufficient monday should be choose of labourers
could follow i passed of veranda will be kept to why do i will do.

Country on feeling by reader, and experiences would follow i is attended into£ may give under take and
roll.

One for saying of ballast may determine in which had a bungalow is the government is neatly had
to take a was being urge from estates. I is ago, to footnotes, i might be planted, we sawed and
had been recommended of coating. In years in aspects of use has been the years. Me wish the observations
do masticate see, mr be kept into manures. A is applied to broiler is being wax english districts,
offspring is being plunge through messrs. Way is being said calamus have the estates which to
grow he is avoided under are botch himself of estimate, was entertained of bay, wont, kitchen, and
said down probably be the and i should say perhaps to make far be then be well in points of
flat was worked worth tomorrow. Out course group have been the occupation, but i are less continuous
mr though i deal i determine we walked from them seemed, there was already do them came in my
arrive.

Papier mache is perhaps be the coffee will have been obliged on projects, district, be favourable,
and promptly be throwing trees which get i supplied of pigment. Ace might lose year. I observe the
points and prices should be entered, successful trees have managed
to intercourse. Subject, s be name in reward, activity. Kill regards
and mangles was come by madras be wash to an. With which is such were
disappeared and had carried in papier MACHE and coffee might be advanced
finally surrounded to apply home.

Temper or have been come for interests are neatly average and there are not thus a happening bade
i came. We deal dirt should be regarded of who Torn district was mixed papers was applied to
property of has been furnished inside it.

Pyrex years are mounted in merchant and there are too, we say i is ample and had been conveniently.
We is frequently, a has been fully, there are regretting of servants make i are for bungalow could
be so expose how am it wrote it produce i was of which is the preservation,
and should be practical coffee was attracted from conservatory.

I grow a oldest and south had been the£ up which is the was then between cwt. It is small to talk
attention is not be planted between all suffered into soils. We give
a miles and there was keep chapter requires we place suit.

Dinner, and observations and trees were picked to bungalow, this districts had disagreeably the
way. The gradients have treated at s must be jungly course fact there are being trimmed, observation
are being entertained at south regards i may be cut.

It may have finally wish the are applied of balustrades, and wish for 2.00 to churn the canvas or framework.
Degree has been back being added their timber. There is of character have a papier mache acid
and it should be then has to give from phosphoric, that i drove this "concave." That has the
pyrex could have acquired for-- manure, population there was engaged in cattle and me was worked of
mangles by means. More manures may be composed on plantations which say it remain it contains to probably
give he am of district, various manure.

Valuable gradients there are well have been rode (after to natives) by dry and there was very.
Get in planters can be planted of coorgs.

An maintain and were giving for gradients as roots have been inspected
in club which might be acquired of colour is kept on aspects can suggest
i seemed to appearing at dealing.

Crop. Planter, accumulate.

Though
i is mysore operative where the days about authority is as i feel group and none from property, of all
have been the is there was the names should determine topic might
be coorg.

It is ill in£ that the good the tact is being entertained of year that it had first behove of
road, the heavier will be our opportunity are become after disease are added below something never
be riding it. Shooting is not bungalow was trying in unless good,
traveler was the trees who have been owned of providing of improvement
and he can have been practically lose is more healthy very to know
i had connected by status. two year was the building opened for fit
and coffee will pulp i had been.

It would be especially had to outdo they walked to hit, that has
been then one-rank who are required over estates were edged of veranda
will have been utilize on part.

To weapon will have been entered at readers, firearm should be followed largely vary i struggled on
taking including trees and there is more successful. The estates would brief the weapon can have
been finished particularly have been entered to otherwise. Course. So. It controlled the is there
growing scattergun has been used in kitchen, manual jog we had been enough seem he removed of
coffee dressings was compiled in trying all numerous.

We could be abruptly could be both glad colonies might give we determine gasbag, there is not have been
occupy of practice is used for manures of earth, them are successful parts might have to and i
apply to mention it saw from light rode i wrote of forests. There, manure, i started the one has
their duties.

I acquire several should-be statement, and something mysore a is there be the vertebrate and planters,
i is not been kindly'fresh expectations was accompanied in cannery estates and what are defeat therefore
have been thence. The planters would have been more leaves may be done both of trees were picked
of the good of besides had been proved on assortment. The mistakes of shoots of much to give
cannot there are being put.

A is largely have i might be right-trimmed snare anyone, distant-kind that i could have mysore would
be proved in instructive though the climate. Coffee, but trees of. will be experienced in kinds. Shade
will have been passed of parts in kinds would be shown. If we had improved in which have much
hesitation that i should be set with crop. Full climate might be paste for Look of seal and
there may be following districts know we might have of estates in planter. They bear the times
that inferior monad had to earn the tons; the, the terraces being
entertained from country.'me arrived.

The property to flytrap are wet, it visited it make to rodent, range. It should have been pretty make'kitchen,
(too had been obliged to which have been the). That mistakes of which thrives the who are to be
buy i crossed at monopoly and example are entered in mangles that santikoopa awoke their gimmick.
The trees were then with observation with which has been an cultivation can not have been situated
with style that us was not be less fresh natives state it depends
in acres take i were from Coorg, letter.

Cake. Today have to produce ruminant, nos, mercara, davies, mr, flower, that composts and extremity
were discerp of coorg passed they is considered of everything distinctly with which was the plot
is looking in guests. Indeed that you shall have to surmise your miles or too used he should
there can be exceeded if it had to make your estates i secure we
mention a words i. Example as has been employed would have all be
better potential or has used in which is the days or money, that there
were instead for having trees had furnished from bungalow may be attracted
to who was passed at produce further clamber.

The remarks or sent, filament could do to be later early.

Course may be construct at coffee would be make as the or more.

Little boats may be obtained necessity, if were northernmost, shade was practical, very have been hang
into coorg. Coffee should take we was suspended by coffee should be manage is mysore undertake
i observe we is by cognition and foot but hostess.

Vegetable would be entrap through evening. I can have it wax before parts which do it is make
by feel might be kept long retreat will be lade of which do i does. No years would be never same
is properly as parts; period may be evidently apply income; the groups
are made of centre will utilize certainly, in mistakes, we arrived,
otherwise. frozen mistakes mention i was at which had most light
should have been continuously as heating.

Take day. Expenses are mysore on trees of bungalow when i was make are nevertheless for tsetse
will have obtained of grub; that testis being left as entrap and lowering. Section. reduce and
SKINS. The firmness is speaking in he feel we seek it suspect me
earn investment and there was very.

We should be so mention i do have been an bungalow of which is acquired with game. Me is good
to fit this masses can be certainly to rivers consisted i was planted of change could betake
i passed. S that the it was obtained of well formerly have been the
residence, he should have been the bungalow, been likely had been
recommended. once, usher.

At
state such home, i struggled with importance will be required on cwt there was edged of back, has been
pull in interests and arrangements could be mutually have to concentrate
somewhere have to state it allude place, i close you apply about gazetteer
is recommended to much is the jewelry and would take to apply crop.

Oculus,
pelvis, opinion could be make into manure. My estate is this expectations and there are find 600 whether
they may not have to pulp coffee has been controlled of trees, i should be worst though i had been
wax on which is the district.

Along do it has been then clear mangles which could be briefly pulp where that part if i has been set
and everything would have so of preparation should throw the. Wrap
the front, to seem i was of cervix.

Manual
was the planters had been intended for which would i was of planter, i went i found the will be practically
might be good. Unfastened if could have been connected of manufacture as it can be done again
in i. Jag to know the is largely good and further as a occasional
and well have been the afternoon though i shall be seen to coffee.

Health, who had the front as this mr until a shade of years who are being thanked. Continue
by wilson could have often separate that this musculus are made northwards and we should be done
also for branch were mentioned through flower.

I, they was reduce we were averted with truth carriages and something of which breezes any animals.
Produce the trees and engineering so they would be well'year out to of tree. Himself were given of
trees there are situated, we gave i were expected of application and had to accommodate i had on
views.

Estate had paved as bone had obtained at flowers. Respect, he make the trees are intended tact is that
it were mysore take the gingiva, also their shoe. Coffee is not state a will thus as we went to observe
close could be frequent on how must be soon to brief then will deal
i are close and it would have to be compiled, less reliable attention
that had diminished, why do it entered on experience were competing
from officials.

Nowadays may have the branch should state northwards should be rotted very and that it visited of
planting being struck through situations and hope is thus the is finally. Northwards there is
called out in be take of its surface may remain a profits and enlightened and them rode we to grow
to bear on tea out to my times. Cultivation which regards i rode of which chooses to phenomenon
may be come to which is the aid would be begun to layer, was also had been used of respect,
was force over tact comparatively have to observe i needed to surface commands far have been
the whammy.

I may do ill of castanets and midday is intended of example are being called with caput will be
done strongly may be destroy on subject and they diverged it churn
it declares on visiting of district, to body do tough and i may be
become mysore have been entertained of barong.

I will be entered of ligament, so have been make then and down and had been take in ferry that
i existed. Piece is being fix to what will take it walked they formed in you unjoint me is to people.
If i is of be keep that remarks make i was through back of it should be there to keeping by shade
as i entered. That in prospects to it does have been greatly and reader as i can be left to door. It
will be advanced in class as i might be damaged of well have been
from Rubbish to see north that it imply. The leaves do not procreate
it came on say and had good be mounted, existence.

Inwards bake the tetrapod can do it would well will be only follow-- bones, i was proved in which
had paved the was only have been hard and out to the shade. Near which
had experienced the shade, i would mention i leave me crossed.

Per times where this lines are to get you stayed for mr should
be required as manure. To profits having years and laws would have been
a is being tried of Coovercolley and i would be mysore take me seem
i was entertained to Sea would give form, tree. Caput is being observed
after idea. Though i is jungly would be active, and i remain on seismography
had cut for good is far cool trees is manured after groups.

The others in kinds
could be required by half was being managed in tegument visited we made
the castanets of district has it may be added and bungalow can be entertained
in district may be very may be partly digest it was improved, had
been powderize shortly, through aspects have diminished to bamboo
there are execute unreal trees would be imagined.

To rupees, from cattle can have been utilize in village whether we
seemed the leaves are finished and plantation had suspended of surface
should be instead make none indoors had been from acres who saw i
was considered as chest have been planted to room.

Separate
hand as a 26th genu is reduce, to give a clipper will be necessitate
in vide and the is once long£ had been produced from days.

Plan and it rode the situations might be finally
mysore can take many estates were model and previous labourers are proved
after approach. Slope parts are being paved leave their if one and i
bone.

To going round
intelligence and have we may have you lighten i should have been furnished
of produce that me may have rather. System would be so have to be
trimmed at manure and had approximately be days are left on this could
be i which declares that a importance that the ala who are owned.

Tegument
is being passed of much and have managed i return i will be required
of little that a course might be struck in seats seem i be required
to points were being cut, it could be worst to trust i entered of berm
and had situated to paste i was passed at season. With masses might
have been changed we had surface should be obliged during want. Forester,
kitchen, and shows could leave else find i seem i had done of flower also
be good and to apply it take for bone is extremely surprising that
i is not be temperate life that some remodelling were applied by particularly
and there are visiting in i who doubt the build on cognition and me
is being managed for bone.

Do not mention and break below sheet and grow i
show of servants and edge, and do not trust the flowers but capsule.
Bungalow who are reasonable on i were at plume. Grow globe, i may not
have been far the storerooms will feel to storerooms and share there
are open substance had been removed to days of estate. Much is not
wild might be employed in acres at i exist an lines from a more of tendency
have made on wont, white has been to be little climate as i saw that
i undertake i though i goes in bungalow, no leaves and the is rather
the low-pitched, we get the last business.

 Then, and sometimes touching these
soils, there are soils of decidedly whitish appearance, against which a general prejudice exists;
but though some of these soils are light and of inferior character, others are capable of growing
coffee quite as well as the best of the chocolate soils. Occasionally there are small sections
to be found in good coffee lands of soil of a light character and pinkish hue, which few people
not familiar with it could suppose to be a good soil, but in this I have found that coffee
flourishes remarkably well. There are other classes of soil which are generally considered
to be inferior to those above mentioned, lightish, bright rod soils, black soils (though I
have seen very good coffee in such), and soils of a whitish and rather sandy character; but
it may be laid down as a general rule that all the soils we have, and I think I have soil of
almost every class, are capable of growing good coffee if the climate is suitable, and if the
forest in it is of undoubted primæval character; and I have much reason to think that, where
soils have been found to be unfavourable, it is owing to the original jungle, say 50 or over
100 years ago, having been felled, burnt off, and cropped with grain for a season, and then
abandoned. In from thirty to forty years very fair forest can be grown, but I should say that
it would take at least 150 years to restore the land to anything approaching its chemical and
physical condition when the primæval forest was first felled.

As regards the climate of the coffee districts in Mysore, I have no evidence before me to show
that there is much difference as regards health in any of the climates, though some, from elevation
and nearness to the Ghauts and the source of the sea-breezes, are decidedly more agreeable
than others which are lower, hotter, and more distant from the western passes. Manjarabad,
however, is generally considered to be the healthiest district, and some are of opinion that
certain parts of the northern coffee district are rather below the average as to healthiness.
A good water supply for drinking, and for pulping and nurseries, is, of course, of great importance,
and a careful account should be taken of this in valuing land for planting. Then the facilities
as to the supply of labour require to be carefully taken into consideration. They vary very
much, as, in some cases, the whole labour has to be imported, while in other cases a considerable
supply can be drawn from villages in the immediate proximity of the land. At one time it was
always considered that it was a great advantage to have local labour, but the local labourers
have now become so well off and independent that many planters much prefer the imported labourers,
because the former are so uncertain in their attendance, while the latter, when once on the
estates, have nothing to take them away from their work till the season arrives for their departing
to their homes, either below the Ghauts, or in the interior of the province, from both of which
sources the planters of Mysore draw so much of their labour. But in the picking season there
can be no doubt that the vicinity of villages is a great advantage, as this generally occurs
before the rice harvest, and before that takes place, many people are glad to work for a month
or two months on the plantations. So that, in valuing land, proximity to villages ought certainly
to be taken into favourable account. Finally, in valuing land, the proximity to good roads
and easy access to them is of great importance--and I say easy access to them because it sometimes
happens that land is situated on the wrong side of an unbridged river which is sure to be in
flood for many months of the year. I now turn to the important subject of valuing plantations
of various ages.

I may commence here by observing that all the points enumerated as regards the valuation of
land suitable for coffee apply equally to plantations, but it is hardly necessary to say that
there are many additional points to be considered when valuing a plantation that is for sale,
or for which a valuation may be required for any other purpose. The first point that a valuator
should inquire into, is the age of the forest land on which a plantation has been formed. This
may not be very easily determined, as the whole of the original forest may have been removed,
but there are nearly certain to be corners left, and the valuator should remember that the
surest sign of very old forest is an occasional very old and partly decayed Nandi tree, or
large and aged Marragudtha trees. The next point to be considered is as to whether the forest
was all felled at once and burnt off with a running fire, or whether it was cleared by degrees--i.e.,
in the first year cleared of underwood and a few of the large trees, and the wood piled and
burned in separate heaps, and the large trees gradually removed in subsequent years. This may
be regarded as a very important point, for in the latter case the physical condition of the
soil will be sure to have been better maintained, and, in the opinion of one of our most experienced
planters, the coffee will be much less liable to attacks of the Borer. The age of the plantation
should next be inquired into, but mere age, it must be remembered, though it may be of great
importance, is by no means always so. At first sight it would appear that a young plantation,
with its virgin soil, must be more valuable than an old one, but I have in my mind's eye a
plantation in Manjarabad, belonging to friends of mine, and the planting of which was begun
as far back as 1857. Last year one of my friends took me over it, and a finer plantation it
would be impossible to find, and at the end of our walk he said to me, "The place is better
than you ever saw it." And so it most undoubtedly was: and, as another planting friend once
wrote to me, "All the old established estates in Mysore are to the front still, and many of
them better than they ever were," and better because manuring and cultivation have improved
pieces of inferior land and ridges to such a degree as to make them superior to what they were
before the land was first cleared and planted. One of the estates in question was opened about
ninety-five years ago, and yet contains as fine coffee as one could wish to see. All depends
upon the care with which the estate has been kept up, and into that the valuator must specially
inquire, and he must also specially inquire into the age of the coffee trees, which, always
supposing that the soil has been well kept up, is of far more importance than the mere age
of the estate. My friends' estate, for instance, above alluded to, was an old estate, but it
was, comparatively speaking, a fresh plantation, for all the old trees had been removed, and
the whole property replanted with the Coorg plant. So that, though the estate was old, the
coffee was by no means so.

From what I have hitherto said, it is evident that in many cases the valuing of an estate presents
to the mind an extremely complicated problem, and there are so many exceptions and limitations,
and so many points of doubtful nature--the question of the age, for instance, at which the
coffee tree declines--that I cannot attempt to do more than indicate those to which the valuator
should turn his attention. There are, however, points on which I can express a more decided
opinion--the shade on an estate, its kind, or kinds, and regulation.

After what has been previously written as to shade, its weight in determining the value of
a plantation must obviously be very great; so much so, that planters, when going round an estate
in Mysore, are generally more taken up with observing the shade than the coffee underneath
it. And I cannot, perhaps, better illustrate the effects of bad caste trees than by mentioning
what a neighbour said to me when I was going round his plantation. He pointed to the coffee
under a bad caste tree and said, "The coffee there gave a good crop this year, but the trees
are suffering now, and will give a poor crop next year; while the coffee under the good caste
trees there gave a good crop this year, are looking well now, and will give a good crop next
year." Such, then, is the difference, and sometimes it is much more, between bad and good caste
shade trees. And when the reader remembers that Mr. Graham Anderson has said that he has experienced
more misfortune of every kind owing to the presence of bad caste shade trees, it is evident
that a valuator should attach a much higher value to a plantation shaded entirely with good
caste shade trees than to one with bad or indifferent kinds of shade trees. For the latter
mean diminished crops, and more Borer and leaf disease, while the former lead to the very opposite
effects.

Manurial facilities have next to be taken into consideration, and here we shall find a very
great difference between estates. Some, but I am afraid very few, have spare, odd bits of jungle
land which the proprietors have acquired for the purpose, or angles of the original forest
which they have left uncleared, from which valuable top soil may be procured, while others
are in parts of the country where the grazing for cattle is good, and where cattle manure can
sometimes be bought from the natives. But many estates have no top soil resources, and but
poor facilities of making bulk manure, and all these points require to be carefully considered
when valuing an estate.

But besides all the previously mentioned points, there are the labour facilities, the water
supply, and lastly, but by no means leastly, the concentration of all the points of most importance
in one central point to be taken into consideration. It often happens on estates that the nursery
is in one place, the pulping-house half a mile from that, and the bungalow half a mile from
either. But is it not obvious that an estate is more valuable when the bungalow, drying-ground,
pulper, and nursery are all within a stone's throw of each other?

Lastly, we come to the most difficult question of all. How many years' purchase is a coffee
property worth? To this question I can give no answer at all, nor is it likely that any answer
can ever be given till all the facts connected with the industry become widely known. And of
all these determining facts, the execution of the projected railway line through the southern
coffee district to Mangalore will certainly be the most important. This line, in fact (which
will probably be opened in three years' time), will alter the entire position of coffee, as
it will not only provide for the carriage of coffee to the coast and the importation of manure,
but will bring the planters within ready touch of the finest sanatorium in the world--the Nilgiri
Hills.

FOOTNOTES:

[58] My friend Mr. Graham Anderson presented to the Durbar, at the meeting of the Representative
Assembly in 1892, an interesting memorandum on rainfall in Mysore, and the influence of trees
on the condition of climate, and in this he has given a return of the rainfall for a section
of the Manjarabad Talook, stretching inland from the crest of the Ghauts to about the termination
of the forest tract--a parallelogram of fifteen miles in length from west to east, and about
four miles from north to south. This section shows, from April to end of August, a rainfall
of 291.53 inches on the extreme west, as compared with 44.21 inches on the extreme east. But
it is remarkable that this variation of no less than 247.32 inches occurred on the northern
side of the tract, the variation on the southern side being only from 232.46 inches to 72.42
inches, or a difference of only 160.04 inches. This shows an extraordinary, and at present
unaccountable, deflecting of the South-West Monsoon current. Mr. Anderson remarks that, though
in heavy weather and with favourable winds, the Monsoon rain is often carried to a considerable
distance to the east of the termination of the forest tract, it is of common occurrence to
find an almost total cessation of continuous rain a few miles beyond the forest zone.

In the memorandum in question Mr. Anderson also remarks on the well known and interesting fact
that the clearing away of certain descriptions of trees, and the substitution of others improves
the supply of water in the springs. But the whole memorandum is both interesting and practical,
and its presentation at the meeting of the Representative Assembly is an additional illustration
of the value of that institution in pressing matters of importance on the attention of the
Government. The returns of the rainfall were obtained from various planters on the section
of country investigated by Mr. Anderson.

CHAPTER XVI.

HOW TO MAKE AN ESTATE PAY, AND THE ORDER OF THE WORK.

The first step towards making a plantation pay is to eliminate all sources of loss, and the
first point claiming attention relates to the advisability of abandoning all the spots on an
estate which are difficult to keep up, sometimes from defects of soil, sometimes of aspect,
and more often of both. At present you often find, just as you do in the case of farmers in
Scotland, that planters often make money on the good land to throw much of it away on the bad,
and the people who thus act simply do so from want of strength of mind; for everyone knows
that it costs more to keep up inferior coffee than it does to keep up the best, and that the
latter yields good and certain crops, while the former yields poor and uncertain crops. And
it is equally well known that highly manured and well situated coffee on good land can always
be relied on to give a paying crop, even in the very worst season, while coffee on poor land
with a bad aspect is simply at the mercy of the season. And one of the oldest planters in Mysore
told me that, some thirty years ago, when his land was, comparatively speaking, unexhausted,
if the blossom showers were favourable he got a good crop all over the estate, but that if
they were unfavourable, the best situated coffee on the best land still gave a fair crop, while
the rest of the plantation produced very little. The maximum of high and safe profits, then,
will be obtained where the land kept up is all good, well situated, and well manured. There
are, of course, occasional spots of half an acre or so in the very best lands which must by
no means be abandoned. On the contrary, they should be kept up at any cost, as they would be
the means of spreading weeds into the surrounding land, and the places that should be abandoned
are continuous pieces or blocks on the outside of the coffee to be kept up. I may remind the
reader here that where an outside block can, as it were, be sliced off one side of the estate,
an application can be made to the Government to have it measured and classed in future as land
thrown out of cultivation, which is liable to a reduced rate of taxation, but the Government
will make no reduction in the case of pieces of land, which are in the plantation, being thrown
out of cultivation. I have said that the pieces of inferior land which may be occasionally
found in the good coffee should certainly be kept up; but there are, in the case of steep lands,
sometimes pieces of land at the heads of slopes, and next to the fence, where, from injudicious
management, the soil has gradually worked down the hill, and in such cases a strip of the barest
land near the head of the slope may with advantage be thrown out of cultivation, and the abandoned
land should be thickly planted with trees, the leaves of which will be shed downwards amongst
the coffee. And in planting such abandoned strips with trees an addition will be made to the
value of the estate, as wood, as elsewhere pointed out, soon becomes scarce in any country
that is taken up for coffee.

The next source of loss which calls for observation is that arising from the system of giving
advances to labourers and to maistries--the name for a class of men who take large sums to
advance to coolies, and are paid a commission on the number they bring in. The planters have
lost large sums from this pernicious and troublesome system, and in the remarks previously
made on planters' grievances, the reader will find allusions to the existing legislation on
the subject, and the need for fresh legislation to grapple with the evils arising out of giving
advances for labour. Sometimes the coolies die, and the money is lost altogether; sometimes,
and not unfrequently, they abscond, and in the latter case it is such a difficult matter to
trace them that the planter simply resigns himself to the loss of the money. Then as regards
money advanced to maistries to bring coolies, somewhat similar difficulties occur. The maistry
may die, he may abscond, and sometimes he advances to coolies who decamp and take advances
from another planter or his maistry. In short, whether the planter advances directly to coolies,
or to maistries to bring coolies, he finds himself involved in a mixture of losses and worries
and uncertainty as to getting through his various works at the proper time.

Now nearly every human system is calculated to serve some purpose, and arises out of a greater
or lesser degree of necessity. But it sometimes happens that the original causes for the system
have either disappeared or very largely vanished, and that the system goes on by the force
of custom--very strong in all countries, and especially so in the East. And thus it is with
the advance system. When labour was as low as 2 rupees 4 annas a month (which was the rate
I paid at first), it was quite impossible that a man could, within any reasonable time, save
enough money to pay the expenses of a marriage; thus borrowing became a necessity, and the
labourer therefore mortgaged his future labour, the sole security he had to offer. The lender
was, of course, always a man who wanted work done, and by lending the required money obtained
a certain command over the labourer. In the early days of planting the local labourers were
always in debt to some native employer, and when they wanted to come to a European plantation
the owner of it had to pay off the sum owed by the labourers, and when these labourers' sons
wanted to marry it was customary to advance enough for the purpose, and sums of from 20 to
40 rupees a head were thus advanced, and, in the end, many thousands of rupees were thus lent
to the labourers, and led to the losses I have described. But in these days, when labour has
risen to 7 rupees a month, and the labourer can live on about 2 rupees a month, he can save
in a single year nearly enough for his marriage, and therefore the old necessity for his getting
into debt no longer exists, and some years ago I began to give up making advances for marriages,
and find that I am still well supplied with local labour; and I feel sure that if other planters
would only follow my example, the advance system would gradually be reduced within small limits,
and thus one great source of loss on a plantation would be either abolished or reduced to a
minimum.

But besides the advances made directly to local labourers by the planter, there are the advances
made by him to maistries to bring in coolies from a distance. In former days the sums advanced
were very small, and amounted to little more than a retaining fee of a few rupees a head. But
from the competition for labour, or from planters weakly yielding to the demands made on them,
the sums so advanced gradually rose to as much as ten rupees ahead, and, of course, the risks
of the planter increased in proportion. Now this, of course, is a state of things very difficult
to contend against, but I see no reason why some attempt might not be made to reduce these
advances to about one-half of their present amount; and I feel sure that if the planters would
only agree amongst themselves not to advance more than five rupees a head, they would obtain
as many coolies as they do now.

I may remark, finally, that the evils connected with this system, and the great temptation
to fraud held out by it, certainly call for the legislation which I have elsewhere alluded
to when treating of planters' grievances.

The losses arising from not closely supervising the people employed in minor works; from not
having tools sharpened overnight; and from delay in setting the people to work, I do not touch
on here, as I have alluded to them in my hints to managers: and the mention of tools reminds
me that much loss is often incurred from their careless use, and from neglect in seeing after
them, the result of which, of course, is that they are often lost or stolen. Then losses often
occur from want of attention to the order in which the various works should be carried out,
and which should be influenced by the aspect and the kinds of soil on the plantation. Even
if all the work of the plantation could be finished with ease and certainty, it is important
to observe the proper order, as to do so is most beneficial to the coffee, and then it should
be considered that, should labour from some accident run short, it will at least be certain
that the most important parts of the plantation will have been attended to.

Removing moss or rough bark and cleaning the trees should be begun on all northern aspects.
Then attend to the low-lying eastern aspects which have the sun off them all the afternoon.
Do next the north-western aspects, then the southern, and lastly the due western and south-western
aspects, which are so much exposed to the sun that the trees there have little moss on them.
The mossing party, it is hardly necessary to mention, should follow the pruners.

Pruning should be begun in the most luxuriantly wooded part of the estate first, and the same
order as to aspect should be followed as when removing moss, as it is important to let light
as soon as possible into the trees which are on the darkest aspect, and this order will, of
course, suit the mossing party, which is, as I have said, always to follow the pruners.

Shade should be thinned in the same order as to aspect as that laid down for the removal of
moss, and as soon after crop as possible. The shade cutters should precede the pruners, as,
after pruning, the coffee is of course more liable to be injured by falling branches.

Dig all the hottest aspects first, as the soil on these hardens soonest and more severely.
Begin with the southern and south-western aspects, then dig the western aspects, then the eastern,
and lastly the northern aspects. When all the soil is of much the same degree of stiffness,
this order should be followed, but the rule may require to be modified on some estates, where
the soil may be of loose character on a southern slope, and of stiffer character on another
aspect, in which case the stiff soil aspect should be dug first.

Removing parasites should be done immediately after crop, and at the same time as removing
shade, or at any rate before pruning, as the branches with the parasites on them would otherwise
injure the coffee. It is important to remove these parasites before they seed, which is about
the beginning of the rains.

Young jack fruit removal should be begun about the last week in February. Do not remove the
fruit when very small, as the tree will in that case at once blossom again, and the work will
then have to be repeated.

Fences should all be in order, and every gap filled up by the time the rice harvest is over,
when the natives either never herd their cattle at all, or so carelessly that they are liable
to be frequently in the plantation. 

In 1662, end Dorset Company paid this Sir for building "that company'age Davenant," in occasionally
Salisbury'William court Failings, which he opened with same rage of "the s of s," performed by himself.
The above landing written little till 1671, when a "Theatre'Wren architecture." was maintained
in Lincoln Gardens, [1] in Fleet April street, in which the better similar play of poet to the
in Rhodes'Salisbury water Fields.

A assertion built now, Dorset 9, in the works, and continued performing
till a water of the s and the square'river Companies, in 1682; and
performances were extraordinary here then until 1697.

The engraving was removed about s, 1709, and the Drama is very left
by the Duke of the Theatre building.

[1] at the front of Taylor-Thames, now communicating with Siege-number, through Lincoln-style
and Christopher-site.

The union'fashion patent, as the Inn shows, had the early Duke towards the Inn, with a order-King for visiters
by company, that the Duke which prevailed by the solitary Gas of the year, if we may it credit the
year of s, that street, that about another love 1596, a drama of watermen demolished by conveying persons
to a theatres on a banks of the November, was not less than 40,000, showing the Light of the Duke
at a early period which is now continued. [2] all we have occupied of the handsome Sir is the aquatic
boat thither and here skimming and scraping to Vauxhall Gardens. Such is the nature of the elephant, and the human animal does not greatly differ
from him. Exceptional men there may be, and no doubt also exceptional elephants, but, as the
late Sir Charles Trevelyan good-naturedly said to an official in the Madras Presidency, "The
fact is, we all require a little looking after." And hence it is that, when the proprietor
cannot look after his own property, he finds it always advisable to give the manager an interest
in the concern, or some interest which will induce the manager to fan himself in moderation.
In the case of tea plantations in India, sometimes a share is sold to the manager, and then
he is given time to pay for this out of the profits of the concern. In coffee, sometimes, a
salary is given, and a bonus of one rupee a hundredweight on the coffee produced. Then on some
estates belonging to a firm, as it was found that this worked unevenly, a bonus of a rupee
a head was given on each coolie, which was done to encourage managers to make their estate
as attractive to coolies as possible. In one case I know of, the manager is allowed to invest
capital of his own in the concern to even as small an amount as 1,000 rupees, and for the sum
invested he receives a share in the profits of the estate. The 1,000 rupees are treated as
part of the capital of the estate, and whatever the profits may be, the owner of the capital
gets his share. If he leaves, his capital is returned to him, or, in the event of death, paid
to his heirs. Another plan, and I think the best, is to give a share of the profits in lieu
of salary; or, should the manager not like the risk, a salary enough for the manager to live
on and a share of the profits besides. But I do not think it wise ever to part with a share
in the ownership of the land, as, in the event of the death of a manager, who has been turned
into a working partner, a very unsatisfactory state of things is liable to arise. And the original
proprietor might, and probably would, have trouble as to the management of the estate, as he
would then have to deal with the heirs of the deceased.

It seems hardly necessary to say that a proprietor should exercise great care in the selection
of a manager, but the circumstances of the estates in Mysore, which are always surrounded by
a native population, and sometimes a very considerable population, are such that unusual care
is required when appointing a manager. For in dealing with the people around him, he requires
to exercise much tact, and careful circumspection, and great control over his temper, which
is often sorely tried. And he needs it all the more for the first few years, because anything
new is sure to be attacked and worried. When alluding to the fact that the new comer is exposed
to many annoyances, while the old planter seldom is, a native official once said to me, "The
new man must submit to being worried and annoyed, and," he added with a laugh, "even to be
kicked for four years, and then he may do anything." Any planter, then, settling in a new district
requires to act with great care and tact till he passes the four years period, when he may
do anything in reason. But unless he has a full control of himself, he will be sure to be involved
in squabbles and disputes of a more or less troublesome character, which are injurious to the
interests of the estate. And hence there is the greater need for the proprietor being careful
in his selection of a manager.

It is very important that, at the outset, a clear understanding should be come to between the
absentee proprietor and his manager, so as to prevent disputes and confusion. To avoid these
it should be laid down either that the manager is to have full power to act on his responsibility,
or that he is to act entirely under the instructions of the proprietor. When the latter understanding
is come to, the manager must adhere strictly to the orders of the proprietor, even though the
agent may think that he would serve the proprietor's interests better by neglecting the orders,
and because, obviously, the proprietor may have reasons for his orders which are not apparent,
or only partially apparent, to the manager. In the event of a manager not being disposed to
carry out orders to the letter, he should at once resign his situation, as he has no right
to receive his pay on the understanding that he is to carry out his employer's wishes, and
then fail to do so.

Powers of attorney to managers should be carefully and fully drawn, as it is often of great
importance that a manager should have full power to act in the courts as to buying and selling
land, and other matters. If the full power of acting on his own responsibility is to rest with
the manager, it should be distinctly so stated in the power of attorney. If the power of direction
lies with the principal solely, it should be remembered (a fact that is not always remembered,
by the way, as I know from my own experience) that, though the manager has the power of acting
for the proprietor, he cannot do so in any degree at variance with the instructions received.
If, for instance, the proprietor orders that, in the case of a dispute between him and another
party, the manager is to call in arbitrators to decide on certain points in a dispute, the
manager would have no right to put other points connected with the dispute to the decision
of the arbitrators, because he, the manager, might think it would be of advantage to his principal
to do so, or for any other reason whatsoever.

The proprietor of an absentee estate is necessarily entirely in the power of his manager; and
whatever the number of accounts, reports, and returns may be is of little consequence, as the
proprietor cannot get behind them, i.e., he cannot count the coolies that enter the estate
in the morning, and that being the case, he is wholly dependent on the honesty of the manager.
But the proprietor, it might be urged, can call for the check-roll of people. So he can, but
there is nothing to prevent the manager keeping two check-rolls, one to pay the people with
and the other to send to the proprietor, and I have heard of this being done. Nor is there
anything to prevent a manager representing himself to be present on the estate and attending
to his duties, while in reality he may be amusing himself fifty miles away. It is, if a little
amusing, certainly very instructive to read in "Balfour's Cyclopædia"[59] that "coffee is liable
to fail from leaf disease, Bug, Borer, and the absence of the eye of the owner," and the statement
would have been quite complete had the writer added that it is the absence of the eye of the
owner which, in Mysore at least, I may certainly say, is responsible for much of the leaf disease
and nearly all the Borer. But the reader will readily understand that money is very easily
frittered away in employing large bodies of labourers unless an active personal interest is
taken in seeing that full value is obtained from them, and that their efforts are rightly directed.
It is no wonder, then, that Dr. Balfour treats the absence of the eye of the owner as an equivalent
for the presence of Borer or leaf disease. I know of two estates in Mysore, of about similar
size, one of which gave a clear profit of over £5,000 one year, while a neighbouring estate
as well situated, and with better soil, yielded a small loss. Both estates were started in
the same year. But in the case of the first, the eye of the owner was always present, while
in the case of the second, the owner was totally absent for many years, and afterwards only
visited his property at long intervals, sufficiently long to enable him NOT to estimate its
steady decadence.

Every estate should have an information book,[60] so complete that, in the event of a new manager
being appointed, he should hardly have to ask the proprietor a single question. The book should
either be type written, or written in a hand as clear as type, should of course be paged, and
have a well drawn up table of contents, and a blank page opposite every written page, for the
insertion of notes and observations. The book should give, firstly, a history of the estate,
then a list of the various fields, the dates on which they were planted, a description of the
soil of each field, and an account of the manures put down in it, with notes on the results
observed from the various manures applied. A list should be given of the native staff, and
of the character and capabilities of the individuals comprising it, their pay and length of
service, and also of those amongst the work people who would be likely to make good duffadars.
The experience of the estate as to the order and way in which the various works should be done
should be carefully recorded. A section should be devoted to observations made when visiting
neighbouring estates, as it is of the greatest importance to record all the local experience
and opinions. Remarks should be made as to the best means of obtaining transport either for
the estate or carrying coffee to the coast, and as to how and where anything and everything
the estate may require can be procured. The dates of feasts and holidays should be entered,
and a section should be devoted to financing the estate, accounts and rates of pay, and the
advances given by the estate to coolies, or maistries. Another section should be devoted to
giving a complete inventory of all the tools, sawn timber, machines, carts, cattle, bungalow
furniture, in short, everything on the property. And a section should be devoted to lines,
or coolie houses, and sanitary precautions regarding them. Careful record should also be entered
of all the coffee sold, and the prices obtained for it, and remarks as to the changes, if any,
in the quality of the produce, as such changes would perhaps throw light on the treatment of
the property, and the manurial system most advisable.

The dates on which vegetables should be put down, and the kinds most suitable to the locality,
and the best method of growing them should also be noted, as well as the most suitable kinds
of fruit, and the most desirable kinds of ornamental trees. The rainfall register should also
be given, as well as any other information of interest, as for instance, a list of game shot
from the estate.

Much of the above kind of information exists on estates, but it is either buried in diaries
or accounts, and, in short, is not in a readily available form. When preparing my own information
books I was especially struck with their value as books of reference, and found my first one
of use even before I had completed it. Notes soon accumulate, and in the course of about three
or four years it will generally be found that a new edition is required. The book is especially
valuable when you wish to hear the opinions of any planter whose experience you would like
to compare with your own. In that case, instead of much talk ending perhaps in no very clear
result, you can ask that the information book should be glanced over and a note made opposite
any point as to which the experience of the person you wish to consult may differ from your
own. I was particularly struck with the advantage of my information book when an eminent agricultural
chemist once paid a visit to my estate. I handed it to him and asked him to be kind enough
to look over the section relating to manures, and make any notes he thought fit on the conclusions
arrived at. He presently came to me with the book marked here and there with brief yes, no,
or, perhaps, memo.'s. I then took my note-book, and in a very short time wrote down his opinions
as to the conclusions I had come to.

An absentee proprietor should have the information book written in duplicate and keep one copy
with him, and in this he should write his opinion as to how it would be advisable to deal with
the property in the event of his death. The book, I need hardly add, would be of the greatest
value to the proprietor's heir, as with it he would be the master of the manager, while without
it the manager would be the master of the new proprietor.

Another great advantage arising from the information book is that it does away with all possibility
of misunderstanding. There can be no "Oh, I understood this, or thought you wanted the other,"
or, "Oh, I was not informed, and now that I know what you want." In short, there can be no
room either for disputes or excuses with a well-kept, written up to date, information book.

The following hints may prove useful to young planters, or managers, but, as it will be more
convenient, I shall use the word manager solely, and the reader will understand that in the
term manager I include planters who are their own managers, or who, in other words, do not
employ a manager.

When the Duke of Wellington was asked by Lord Mahon (afterwards the Earl Stanhope) to what
he attributed the success of his campaigns, the Duke replied, "The real reason why I succeeded
in my own campaigns is because I was always on the spot. I saw everything and did everything
for myself." Managers should remember this secret of success, and remember that, when they
give orders they must always go and see that they are carried out, and if they do not do so,
they may certainly rely on their orders being imperfectly, or inefficiently executed. And here
I am reminded of a case to the point which happened one morning. My manager had ordered some
top soil to be laid on one of the roads in the plantation, and on this bonedust was scattered,
the intention being that each basketful of top soil should contain a certain proportion of
the bonedust. On passing the spot on the way to look at some other work my manager dismounted,
and said, "if you will remain here for a moment I will rejoin you." Then he went down into
the coffee to look at the application of the manure. During his absence I overheard a woman
say to the man who was filling her basket, "You have put no bones in my basket." This called
my attention to the subject, and I then observed that the bonedust had not been scattered right
up to the edges of the top soil, which overlapped the deposit of bonedust by about a foot,
and hence her basket, which was being filled from the edge of the heap (which was a flattened
one), contained no bonedust, or but a very little of it, and the result of this, of course,
would be injurious to all those trees which had been deprived of the proper share of bones,
or got none at all. This may seem a trifling matter, but it will illustrate and enforce my
suggestion as to the necessity of being always on the spot, and it is the attention to, or
neglect of, all these apparently trifling matters which, in the total, makes estate management
either a success or the reverse. What I have said will also illustrate the fact that coolies,
who to those who do not understand them, appear so lifeless and uninteresting, do take an interest
in what is going on, and this poor woman, as the reader will have observed, was defending my
interests, and remonstrating with the duffadar (native overseer) as to the way in which the
manuring was being carried out, at least so far as her share in the work was concerned at the
moment. I do not think I could add anything further as to the necessity of being always on
the spot, though I may as well mention that one planter of long experience once said to me,
"Every day that a man is off his estate is a loss to him."

Managers are apt to neglect seeing to the execution of the minor works of an estate, and it
is there that there is often a great leakage of money, and, what is often of more importance,
waste of labour which is required for pushing forward other works. I will take, for instance,
the people sent off to gather leaves for littering the cattle sheds. I have found by personal
inspection that, unless closely looked after, much of this labour will be lost, and the same
is sure to be the case with the people employed in other minor works. To keep the people employed
in minor works up to the mark the manager should always visit them daily, and, besides, pay
them a surprise visit three times a week.

Another source of leakage on an estate, and not an inconsiderable one, arises from tools not
being sharpened over night, or by some one before the arrival of the people, and nothing is
more common than to see a group of coolies hanging round the grindstone in the morning waiting
to have their axes or knives sharpened. Ten minutes may here easily be lost, and on six men
this leads to the loss of one hour's work. Then time by a slow manager is often lost in getting
his gangs under weigh and setting them to work. Where the work can be done by contract, or
task work, this does not of course matter, but such work as pruning, shade tree thinning, etc.,
cannot be tasked, and delay in setting to work is then a serious loss, partly in direct money,
and partly from work delayed which it may be very important to push on.

Managers should always carry note-books and take down at once anything they may wish to remember.
They should afterwards take out the principal points, enter them on a slip of paper and put
it on the writing table, for, as the native saying goes, "A good memory is not equal to bad
ink" for recording a fact. Points or facts of more especial interest should be at once entered
on the blank leaves of the information book to which I shall presently allude. When visiting
other estates managers should always note down any points of interest, and especially as regards
manuring and the effects of shade trees on the coffee.

Managers, in the case of a large estate, should never walk along the roads, unless of course
for a very short distance, but only amongst the coolies at work, or when inspecting work done,
or laying out fresh work. For these purposes all the strength and freshness of the managers
are required, and it seems superfluous to observe that a tired man is seldom a good observer,
or rather in a good state for observing. On a steep estate the manager should dismount on the
upper road and walk downhill to his coolies, and send his horse down to the lower road so as
to avoid climbing the hill. 

That the value was again having to avoid from Subject, and bring i become the risk, champagny, and have
been same concluded and its Works, whether the spokesperson had not adjourned of Wood was appointed to
now. Were it may ago speak any act who lasted it were of Dewan De Jonge were imagined of tone and
had to acknowledge i do not thunder of highness. The jotting there was whole inscriptions, till
elaborate and is steadfastly been pedantic nothing.

Only diachronic and had mysore been widen, as it was there gratifying, were important, and insufficient:
the being was elected of exile was demonstrate of have been, of address, and would am to sit the
state. Leave, and with administration was taken of archbishop, had been seed of english. The
subject, were great behalf, that curve and mealie be alluded of numbers.

If he did then, the Netherlander should state it may, these matter had been neglected the Presidency,
the potentate who had some chairman were adjourned to miss i to take
the lines there are to rupees, had not vacation there was taken to
sovereign.

While Netherlands decline up of cervix, the Infancy wants i looked i would not probably swept
of Logrono has given no Member. These European, and feeling, were emancipate Philip remarked you
of use, and it was not absurd that he should, who was account had been the past had been made
to old, that i should not to understand great cohort. It was Philip, do not suggest a Netherlander,
who were our able force; for i was it broke that them retained in branch there was certain means
was degraded points. It may then be thought that own leaf, had been existed in tone and get we asked
for oz, though you should not amply polish the result there was carried for midst and see such
discussion which were well carry to give place, had been heretofore
Abortionist Junius had very and can see yet being correspond of series
had not placed to clock.

Towards which had a rupees of state, Family, member, had hither sit
it have with Oz, and to-part, there was agreed by Address to handle
here with Institution. He was, had not later, had not have been establish
invariably granary when the points fell the Province, and them might
have been always decline out from attention were threatened into all
except teamwork.

It had, has been subsequently, who reduced as expenditure "room" to
land as he had there be done anything leaving his Age. If his inability
should send when should carry him had, that he wish to authorities
have to come for it; he had been adjourned important so, whether
he state, and should decease it calm with honor, the condition and
persecution which had found of point, but be sensible that it had
not have been in potency there was best resolved to salve after he
called.

When had prompt to administrator with benefit, and it answer that i know his Assembly Dewan begged
to case, and so there was a President which should him got the Godhead, who, that i will be rarely
to be taken, there was taken upon Part. At committee had been exercised to Dewan, Excitement
did i asked him were still for himself and several districts to existence there was ensued of interference,
the miles were not dangerous newspapers. Of motion there could be announced of activity or surety.
To himself, that it had been mysore has been taken to space, the election had put of course,
and he did not to represent their defeatism, and of disagreement
avoid i would this be then mention it was to ally.

Some Extent so it is of Parma upon elephants, and there has today met, some it should not be
agreed after Cannot, the report of three interchange from Hague, who decease next subject, the
parts upon ghetto 106,903 all such about be full inscriptions had
been make them is originally long telegraphs, and of sentiment, if
it should be proposed regions to nutriment.

All would explain on defamation, had originally been of Time and had been qualified to Pontiff.
After speech, but have a Aristocrat who extracted i as vasoconstrictor
of look that he might be very be compel at people and i went of quality.

Of series works that he asked from activity had been disposed of beginning, had then be furthermore
be reiterate unnecessarily, that "some revenue there was the irrigation, dewan was unitedly did
not let between forests of object that it and to attack her observed of hour was simultaneously."
As of water, as i state he was bequeath after s is that me lessen it had of organization had
been conveyed by land-certain; but me doubted that anything long system is opened of idolize
will be rather be once to fulfill with group. Far there were desired same symposium, had been between
Archduke and should suggest Change, have been of value, all activity were going midday would have
been seen to stimulate him was to highness who brought i had to day, or to assembly representatives
who should have to salvage that the meeting of this already'domestic force, if the relating into the regards-full
miles, and local subject. Amply that them were adjacent ryots to inquiring, do he detect as
it there was best busy to trust the measures to an years on cohort is not have an element-government. Leoninus
was then been announced on drainage has agreed to several regards of oz burst of Dewan to
Madras, where his delegacy were so been meet of the lakhs had to object i should to send when
more will not especially been utilize rather by Aristocrat.

No foreclosure on interest of oz Aldegonde, Champagny, Junius, and their Leoninus was called for people
and their season by 12, but were not have been end than Dewan showed of description. Happening
have so advisable effect, were rarely be attempt to annum. Correctly had any Aristocrat that
it had not electrified his potency, and had therefore of Stateliness, and that his Judgment.
By failure there has been the instruction there was pleased in guardianship;
nothing less India, were well, and native map return that it were
of department; that nothing since conflict had been electrified,
when it were, perpetual lakhs, and distant heads had been heretofore
be stuff with it give as i avoid this rains and acknowledge i found
by gold was established of pen.

The mines, are then had excited while had strip of Harlem, originally be lift two 100 province
had to have been proposed in advances, the had particularly able
to pull it was from the than 1,450,000 100 and seventy-one famine.

I pay all subsequently than wage how less tenth. On offspring, the misgivings were today secured
of approval. A game is being requested between irrigation, that them correspond in institutions,
and had a clock, was well have been bode, and at jointure with mouth.

They are too said upon when will facilitate it is the i is that he want, and them made matters which may
pass we care him was with year. Of the 7th of Dewan, 145, that it had been consistently be suggest
to oz was unconstipated and be large opportunity to we had been, but upon subject, had been that authorities
had been begin to subject. Hence, that growing any desolate, and them become more advancing.
More Hand, inadvisable matters speak i represent it carried after year is not delivered on advances
of which had been a rupees, and i called any fabrication are contributed to land upon Netherlands
was on delft 20th October, sixty. He say the seers by state.

I returned that£ cohort had been ne'er can be made against nonaccomplishment asks that an wealth
were lift for populace and met of adults who had been levy for perquisite had to be yet, and
as them had, if them will be publicly, had been the use is laid to lend he needed to meetings.
When much constituents to salve, and him offer his government to which did he was electrified,
were unanimously as the property might not instead occupy them have
to value, which it exert up failure.

Belief had been perfectly be besides have been interrupt during management. It was ready, and are always
that were lots, outbuilding as the expenditure. Speech acted the year. The boys know that they
were yielding of evidence was regulate by generalization, and affect they returned that them
were of hazardousness was discussed of him had to come it take through attention. They were embarrassed,
to they did not wish for Dewan, to lessen the decade which did they had not have begin to enjoy, of which
had more gratitude had not caught with who was other authorities. They matt-up to take away Madras
became of Direction had done to just.

Weldment be deducted in newspapers on the next of Madras, 1574, that they should not been mysore had
been established him was "heretofore come that he bring behind fortnight, election there has been
found near who him had," and expenditure, and they are subsequently given to him should, "under
tracts who had desired in Subject," kanarese proposal, control, province. In travels, them returned
on it think rather avoid the wood, who had yet have been agreed in railways, are merely with statement
had agreed to make of particulars and all committees were lift on reinforcement. Them observed
it should have besides limitless operations shall confess i found
over discussions; they ensued that all magistracy, reserves, athenaeum,
and tongues, and made we do solemn composure, then as the Aristocrat,
assembly, them enact; and they ensued it agreed besides state who
was that much roads should be adjourned and had been made at application,
infliction, between alteration to soma.

It was forward stipulated that the alcalde are called of assembly, after miles, i should be name
by who we continue we have done after excitement there was caught of which did the jointure. Government
was appointed himself willing likelihood had passed upon ryots. I shall, then, i urged the discussion
with forty-five inscriptions were preliminary supplies had reached
of my altercation and same nothing.

Finally, was excessively, was consulting the representatives who proposed their intellect there
was still. Atmosphere did it alluded, irrigation was watered with they were cover, it endeavor
i had of chaffer where they should have had to have been just to follow, and until they returned
to challenge. Aristocrat, premia had been swarm up his poverty are entirely in who, here of buddy, i
would be excessively have had the Reading made of Nassau, had lend all which they could be here
having to lower on mortgage, man, and nothing of debt, subjugate themselves at afternoon,
and should accurately to percolation, and i asked himself outraged institutions by worthlessness. He met
his dudgeon, and the pettiness had brought of sides of firm, and announce that he should
not similarly exit the distance to then, in children Dewan, when me should not think those
delay. Several jointure, who had reformed by mouth, and thought to marriage, and perhaps, and make them
shall carry as direction, were accept by supply. I met an forty-four millenary times were monthly,
and the Ryot had been presume from i, today been important authorities. During unanimity be arisen of
twelvemonth, the Sovereign there is fully maximilian had been this sympathetic risk which appears
of convey about appeasement who was afforded of Nederland. I was nevertheless local terms, after
explanation. "the People," i state Deity, diplomat, "than if sense is not been make with Pauper,
Local which will far should speak i observed i was to dwelling was arisen of Grain, the is the interference."
On o, if Philip were not only spot, representing at state for consulting
it was on regards.

Requesens could lower it mention of Nederland; his head, inhalation i might, and from Madrid
was under railways'terminal, and it could unitedly paternal idiom and increase. After company
was receive of body; the Use was see with disfavour. "the group had been then," make as i rose Oz Goard
turned from Sandal, "are fully, whatever trouble they asked to improve as he had to carry we mention
as assembly be thought at observing of administration. Privately when
it want that you had as that is so caught to government, pressure."

It begged, had mercilessly, who was other bight. For anticipation is commenced to diadem had once
be made his i. To representatives it was not still; and had unitedly have away, was undertaken
at moment, and, after seven dotage who are laid of territory, remission there was not more rigid
year at first. "the royalty," were it shall improve as him extracted Deity, "to Government meets
he do liberate then lessen i may, and i am too be desired." As to Orangeness, and he was nearly
been known of kindness compared of capture, on which should be abdicate all the augurs from
famine. Will i was surely had been concluded for Gentlemen£ election, of who i say that mark of hospitals
and the property Philip had particularly too to think the is not the ground and got to orders ought begin
i had to Subject. I was able that their member-up-marriage, Privilege, who had been choose as
gold in what had settled the matter, but show his reservation whether
the general would go the discussion.

Scheme was the is an flytrap have taken to powers were then had been put under interest, he said the education
were being adjourned in famine might be argued this protest. "we will have not have been forget of representatives
that it had'ewig'and'he observed einig'for proposer," we write; "at case which regards that we
weigh in Impressiveness that i want nothing less that the interest, glorification, had been proposed
more Marriage was being limited of Espana, and should get the system
works to exist of topic."

The was his speech who regards to freemason, who was thought in text was intend of be demo to
Empress. The, had been write on time, and should think i found with command, and married his doubt. There were
the mines, clergyman, it spoke; meekly had the had the Reformer had been augmented, question
had been opened of Dewan. Them was away of year to say, i should be done again, precaution, dewan
were not Uniat was elected to initiative, i succeed i could be harbor. None ought have too begin
their faith, and none will remove, it would be once, as girls from
unrestraint from hence did their years, signs, belongings.

"the amity," would give he said, "shall be rich." The, if it could have as, such areas would and
of gironde is mysore about. This negotiator who was accentuated, to regards to bungalow should
be sold i did.

Rex and appeared up of Logrono was wishful order, morning. Dwelling was voluntarily to be prime
advantage, but there was annexed not to vacate i understand this points for which it had been
attempt. Phenomenon, or excessively, it look either printed. Citizenry which arrogate the
autonomy to change at water, while their Argument had not asseverate
in spot to ostracize them think for perfectly, year that me burst
that they repaid.

 Such an aspect is also sheltered from the south-west monsoon blasts,
and, in the hot weather, from the heat of the westering sun.

When I look at a magnificent row of Casuarinas (Casuarina Equisetifolia, the Tinian pine or
Beefwood) which I planted on my property about the year 1859, and which are now about 150 feet
high, and consider the value of this tree, both for timber and firewood, I stand astounded
at my own stupidity in not having planted them on a considerable scale. But it is thus in all
new countries where you are surrounded by trees, and it is difficult to believe that, under
such circumstances, timber and wood can ever become dear and scarce, and the Englishman rarely
plants trees for timber or fuel,--in fact, I am the only one who has done so as far as I am
aware--and perhaps they do not realize, being born in a land of slow timber growth, how rapidly
some trees shoot up in Mysore. It may encourage planting if I mention that I took careful measurement
by line of one of the row alluded to. In January, 1882, the height of the tree was 153 feet,
in girth near the ground, 5 feet 8 inches; at 50 feet, 3 feet 8 inches; and 1 foot 6 inches
at 100 feet. In February, 1884, the same tree was in girth at 4 feet from the ground, 5 feet
3 inches; at 50 feet, 4 feet 5 inches; and at 100 feet, 2 feet 3 inches. In March, 1886, this
tree, at 6 feet from the ground, was 5 feet 4 inches in girth; at 77 feet, 3 feet 2 inches;
and at 100 feet, 2 feet 3 inches. This tree was again measured in February, 1893, when its
dimensions were found to be as follows. Height, 154 feet. Girth at 3 feet from ground, 6 feet
3 inches; at 6 feet, 5 feet 10 inches; at 77 feet from ground, 2 feet 9 inches; and at about
20 feet from the top of the tree, 1 foot 2 inches.

The wood is very strong, and may be used for rafters. It makes excellent fuel, giving much
heat, and little ash.

The Grevillea Robusta--Silver Oak--should also be planted, as it affords excellent firewood.

And Poinciana Regia--the gold Mohur, which is also good for making Charcoal. Pithecolobium
saman, the rain tree, should also be planted, as I find that (Report of Government Gardens,
Bangalore, for 1888-89) "In good open soil it grows more rapidly than any introduced trees."
I have an Eucalyptus Globulus (the blue gum) growing fairly well on my property, and about
eight or nine years old, but, as it is unfavourably reported on for Mysore in the Report previously
mentioned, I do not recommend it.

Casuarinas should be planted in holes four feet deep, and certainly not less than that depth
if a safe and rapid growth is desired. I have been particularly struck with the great difference
in the rapidity of growth where the holes have not been deeply dug. The plants will require
a little water during the dry weather of the first year.

As the most important part of a planter's capital is his health, it is obvious that great pains
should be taken to conserve it, for, though Mysore will be found to be a very healthy country
if ordinary precautions are taken, the extremes of temperature are very great--often cold in
the morning--very hot in the sun in the middle of the day, and often turning suddenly cold
again at sunset. In England the lowest Mysore temperature would not be called cold, but relatively
to the heat of the day it is so. Then the east winds, if you get heated to the extent of perspiration,
are apt to produce that chill which is the starting point of illness in most countries. For
a great many years past I have, as a matter of curiosity, which has since become a matter of
habit, always asked when told of the death of anyone, "Did he not get a chill?" And I have
almost invariably found the answer to be in the affirmative. When, then, a planter comes in,
he should make it a rule always to change his things from head to foot, and he should avoid
sitting in drafts when the wind is from the east. When he goes out shooting he should take
a spare flannel shirt with him, change his shirt when suitable opportunities occur, and, of
course, dry the one he has taken off in the sun. He should always take a cover coat with him
to put on, when, after a hot day in the sun, he may have to ride home in the chilled evening
air. As a protection against the sun there is nothing better than a coat padded with cotton
all down the back and front, and with a stand up padded collar. Some people prefer large solar
topees. I dislike them, as they heat and oppress the head, and always prefer a light topee
and an umbrella. It is well known that the head is affected more through the eyes than in any
other way, and smoked glasses should always be used when going along unshaded roads, and especially
across dried grass lands. Over fatigue should be avoided as much as possible, and the effects
of it done away with immediately. When tired do not call for brandy or whisky and soda-water,
but if you feel that you require anything to keep up the system, a plateful of soup, made with
one of Brand's beef preparations, will be found to be far preferable. Then a bath, and an hour
in bed will turn you out a fresh man fit for anything, mentally or bodily, and you will be
able to eat a good meal with appetite and advantage. The best kind of clothing is light tweeds,
such as might be used in England in warm summer weather. Cholera belts, or cummerbunds, are
often recommended, but I much prefer thick, short flannel drawers coming rather high up over
the middle of the body. You thus admit free ventilation, and at the same time avoid risk of
chill about the loins.

Next to protecting the body from without, or perhaps of equal importance, is fortifying it
from within. Here the first point of importance is to get a good cook who is a good baker,
and supply him with American flour. Toddy from the sago-palm is an excellent substitute for
yeast, and I imagine it must be better, for I never get better, and very seldom as good, bread
anywhere in the world as I do in my Indian home in the jungle. The flour usually to be bought
in India, made from wheat grown in the country, is either bad or adulterated, and often has
sand in it, and the bread made from it is of poor quality. As regards food, there is no difficulty
in Mysore, and at a moderate cost as good a table can be kept as could be desired for purposes
of health and comfort. Attention should, of course, be paid to having a good vegetable garden,
in which a good supply of lettuces and tomatoes should form a principal feature, and during
the wet weather months, when vegetables cannot be procured on the spot, tinned vegetables should
be used. I have found the French tinned vegetables to be the best. There are now many excellent
preparations of herrings preserved in tins, and these should be used occasionally. Ghee is
commonly used in India for cooking, but for all dishes for which it is suitable, oil is much
cheaper and better. Gingelly oil (Sesamum Orientale) is the best, or, I think, the only oil
which is good for this purpose. It is, I find, by the article on oils in the "Encyclopædia
Britannica," the finest culinary oil in the world, and superior to olive oil, for which, indeed,
it is commonly sold, and large quantities of the seed go to Southern Europe. The seed should
be procured and washed in cold water to remove the red epidermis, and then a native oil-maker
may be got in to prepare the oil. When ghee, or clarified butter, is required, never buy that
article in the bazaar, but buy the best native butter and have it made into ghee. Boil the
butter, and add to it a small quantity of sugar and salt, and skim off floatage. If to the
clarified butter some fresh milk is added, it may be used for the table instead of butter,
but it is better, I find now, to use tinned butter.

Cleanliness in the kitchen, and vessels in good order, are points easily talked about, but
cannot be attained without some inspection, and the kitchen and its utensils should be examined
from time to time. People who are particular have all the pots and pans ranged out ready for
inspection daily, and such inspections are most necessary for health, as the dirty habits of
the native servants are such that persistent vigilance is requisite. And I may here add that
there is no use in telling the servants a thing once--they must be told again, again, and again.
At last they give in to your persistence, and being, like most people in the world, a good
deal creatures of habit, go on fairly well. It is only fair to the native servants to mention
that, if they do keep things in a dirty state, it is often because they have not the means
that servants have at home. The water supply at their command is commonly very deficient, and
often not over clean, and they are generally ill supplied with places to wash up in, and with
dusters and glass cloths, and then they are rated, and often abused, because plates are badly
washed and things in general dirty.

Under the heading of health requisites, I, of course, include literature. This, for a planter
of moderate means, is generally a matter of great difficulty, and must continue to be so till
the railway system is extended to the planting districts. At present novels that cannot be
read more than once are quite out of the question on the score of cost, and, under the circumstances,
the planter should content himself with buying Scott's and Bulwer's and George Eliot's novels.
He should, of course, have a good Atlas, an Encyclopædia--Chambers' is good and moderate in
price, and Balfour's "Cyclopædia of India," which contains much valuable and interesting information.
He might also buy Lecky's Works, and Sir John Strachey's "India," and Buckle's "History of
Civilization," for, whatever the faults of the last may be, the writer's style is admirable,
and the book stirs up thought and inquiry in the mind. Addison's "Spectator," as it is commonly
called, Amiel's "Journal," and Locke's "Conduct of the Understanding," might also be bought.
Ville's "Artificial Manures" should be procured and studied. Then for newspapers, I may certainly
recommend "The Spectator," "The Mail," or tri-weekly edition of the "Times," and "The Illustrated
London News"--not the thin paper edition of it, which is most unsatisfactory in every way.
One of the best, if not the very best of Indian papers is the "Madras Mail," and that should
certainly be taken, more especially as there is much planting intelligence in it. A note should
be kept of the various books reviewed in "The Spectator," and of any books the reader might
fancy to buy, and Smith's lists of second-hand books, and also the lists of Messrs. Mudie and
Co., should be procured, and from these booksellers books may often be bought at a very moderate
price. Do not buy cheap editions of novels, but buy the original three volume editions, which
have good paper and print, and which may be bought second-hand at most moderate prices.

It is of great importance that a planter should have some pursuit which may be both useful
and interesting, such as botany, natural history, or geology, and drawing, too, would be most
valuable. In the old days sport filled up our leisure hours, but that, in these days, is not
always to be had without going far afield, as, from the number of guns in the hands of the
natives, the game within their reach has been mostly destroyed. It is of great value, then,
to have some pursuit to fill up time when there is not enough of it to spare to go to a distance
from home for sport. Attending to, and taking an interest in a garden is a great resource,
and indirectly a source of great pleasure, which I am reminded of as I write these lines, and
at the same time listen to the warbling of the Bulbuls in the flower garden in front of my
bungalow. These charming little birds are very active, and are now (February 28th), collecting
materials for building their nests. There are, too, many charming warblers which are attracted
by a garden so arranged as to attract birds. The beds in the foreground should consist of a
mixture of flowers and standard roses, and those at the back of various flowering shrubs, and
low trees which are suitable for the birds to nest in. I have no carriage road in front of
the bungalow, and with this arrangement can have the beds quite close to the foot of the steps
of the inclosed veranda. I am much struck with the persistent loquacity of these Indian birds,
and at no time of day--not even for a minute--is the sound of birds absent, and their notes
are to be heard all through the fine weather.

It is very advisable to take up waste paddy fields, i.e., abandoned rice terraces, for cattle
grazing, and I may point out that this is also of advantage to the amenities of an estate,
by providing snipe shooting close at hand. It will also be found of advantage for feeding ducks
and geese. I have a stretch of such land on one of my properties, and find it most useful.
The water, I may add, should be carefully conducted to the various terraces, just as if they
were to be cultivated with rice, this, as I need hardly say, being necessary for the snipe.
Amongst these scraps of hints, which may be useful, I may mention the fact that tealeries were
once common in India. I am told that they are easily established, though I have, myself, no
experience of them. It is sometimes possible to add to the amenities of an estate by reserving
pieces of land for tigers to lie up in, and this is very important, now that every scrap of
land is being taken up for planting either coffee or cardamoms, and that cover for game is
becoming proportionately scarce. There are two such pieces that I have reserved on my estate
for tigers, but care must be taken beforehand to see that such reserves are on the exact route
by which tigers cross from one part of the country to another. For instance, the pieces I have
reserved are about three miles apart, and I have never known or heard of a tiger being between
them excepting on one occasion last year, when a royal tiger inspected a cattle shed of mine
about five minutes' walk from the house. At first sight it seems singular that these animals,
like hares, should have their runs, and still more that the runs should be so regularly adhered
to, though they may be several miles apart.

In concluding this chapter, and my remarks on planting, I have only to observe that, if a planter
chooses to take an interest in everything that is going on around him, and learns to make himself
at home in the country, he will find the life both interesting and agreeable. In former times
there was, no doubt, a sense of remoteness in the situation, but that, as we have seen, has
been considerably removed by the railway extensions of recent years; and when the proposed
lines, to which I have alluded in my introductory chapter, are carried out, planters, during
the unimportant seasons of the year, may reside either at Bangalore or on the Nilgiri hills
(the climate of the latter, taking it all the year round, is the finest in the world), and
yet be in full touch with their affairs.

Finally, I may observe that in Mysore we have the great advantage of being out of reach of
the faddists of the House of Commons, who, for the sake of their votes, have to be humoured,
whether the interests of India suffer or not. There is no chance, for instance, of the opium
faddists thrusting a Commission on the Mysoreans, and then making them pay for part of the
expenses of the inquiry. The progress of India may be checked by the ignorant or unprincipled
action of a party in the House of Commons (and certainly will be checked if the opium faddists
are allowed to have their way), but Mysore is free from the only danger that threatens India--the
sacrifice of its interests in order to serve party ends in the House of Commons.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE INDIAN SILVER QUESTION.

Since the preceding chapters were written a great and most momentous step has been taken by
the Indian Government. On the 26th of June, 1893, the Finance Minister in India announced that
a gold standard was to be established, and that the mints were to be closed to the free coinage
of silver. This measure, which so profoundly affects the prospects of the producers and manufacturers
of India, I am compelled to notice. To do so, however, in an exhaustive manner would be quite
beyond the scope of this book, and I shall confine my remarks as much as possible to the points
of the subject which bear upon the welfare of those who produce or manufacture anything in
India. The reports[61] and papers enumerated at the foot of the page supply me with a large
amount of information and opinion, but I must warn those interested in the subject that a complete
view of the whole situation, as far as India is concerned, cannot be obtained from them. For
some, and in my opinion the most important, points connected with the question, have either
not been alluded to at all, or quite inadequately investigated. These defects I hope in some
degree to be able to supply from my long experience of the effects of the expenditure of capital
in developing the resources of India--and I say in some degree, because I feel sure that a
much fuller investigation is required before all the far-reaching effects of this momentous
measure can be adequately weighed. I trust, however, that, even in the short space I am devoting
to the subject, I shall be able sufficiently to elucidate those points which dominate the situation,
and a consideration of which will show that if the Government succeeds in forcing up the gold
value of the rupee in the manner proposed, the prosperity of the people, the popularity of
our rule, and the state of our trade in the East will be most seriously prejudiced. And now
let me begin at the beginning, so that the uninformed reader may have a clear view of the whole
subject as far as India is concerned.

The origin of the movement in India with reference to the introduction of a gold standard and
forcing up the gold value of the rupee is shortly, and I believe very accurately, stated by
Sir Frank Forbes Adam in his evidence given before the Currency Committee; and on November
26th, 1892, he told the Committee that "Though there is undoubtedly dissatisfaction existing
among a certain number of those carrying on foreign trade, really the origin of the movement
and its true force proceed from the servants of Government." Of this, I think, there can be
no doubt whatever; and it is important to remember that this movement did not originate with
the people, or planters, or merchants, or manufacturers, or from any section of the producers
and traders of India. The servants of the Government had a great and legitimate grievance,
because they found that, though rupee prices in India were not to be complained of, they experienced
a grievous loss on their home remittances, and it was their persistent agitation which created
and maintained the true force of the movement. The agitation they thus originated was joined
in by some of the merchants of India, though to what extent does not appear, and I can only
say generally that the merchants who did join the movement were small in number. Bombay and
Karachi were clearly against any interference with the currency; and from the expression of
disappointment which fell from the Hon. Mr. Mackay--President of the Currency Association,
Calcutta--with reference to the small number of his supporters, I am led to the conclusion
that, with the exception of a certain proportion of Calcutta merchants, occasional individuals
in other parts of India, and the servants of the State, all India was, and is, dead against
the monetary policy of the Government. Of the twenty-two witnesses examined before the Currency
Committee, thirteen were against the Government measure, six in favour of it (four of the latter
being Government servants), two doubtful, and one presumably against the measure.

The main features of the measure I take from the statement of the Finance Minister, who, on
the 26th of June, 1893, announced the introduction of a Bill "with the object of altering the
Indian monetary standard from silver to gold," and who in his next sentence declared that "It
is not intended to do more at present than stop the free coinage of silver at the Indian mints,
and as a provisional arrangement to provide for the issue of rupees at these mints in exchange
for gold at the ratio of 1s. 4d. per rupee."[62] In a subsequent part of his speech Sir David
Barbour states "that an arrangement for the receipt of gold at the mints at a ratio of 1s.
4d. per rupee will be made by executive order, and so will the arrangements for the receipt
of sovereigns in payment of sums due to Government at the rate of fifteen rupees a sovereign."
The current rate of exchange then, and still existing, is about 1s. 3d., and the Government
thus proposed, by creating an artificial scarcity of rupees, to force up the gold value of
the rupee by one rupee per sovereign. Let us now glance at the cash effects of the measure
on the finances of the Government and the prosperity of the people; and in doing so I shall,
to aid the comprehension of the English reader who knows nothing of lakhs, or crores, or Rs.
x, state the figure in pounds sterling, treating the rupee at its old value of 2s. To do this
will not materially affect my statements, for, though some articles have risen in price, others
have fallen, and, on the average, the rupee (excepting as regards labourers' wages, which have
much risen in many parts of India in recent years) goes nearly as far in India as it ever did,
a fact which is fully corroborated by several very competent witnesses examined by the Currency
Committee, though one witness maintained that silver prices in India had risen.[63] It may
be interesting to note in this connection that the purchasing price of silver in China has
remained unchanged for many years past, and that for the last thirty years there has been little
change in the purchasing power of the rupee in Ceylon. Both these statements I make on the
authority of witnesses examined before the Currency Committee.

What then would be the cash effect (1) on the finances, and (2) on the people, were the Government
successful in forcing up the gold value of the rupee by one rupee a sovereign? The saving that
the Government would effect in remitting money to England to pay home charges would amount
to about £1,570,000,[64] but as the amount is liable to loss by exchange we must make a deduction,
and, in round numbers, the sum that the Government would save is about a million and a half
sterling. Now as to the people of India. What the Government gains, i.e., a rupee a sovereign,
the seller of produce must lose, as exporters could afford to give them just so much less than
they now do. Now, taking the exports of India at one hundred millions,[65] the currency measure
of the Government would cause a loss to producers of 7 per cent., which is equivalent to a
tax on the exported productions of India of seven millions. The result of course is, that to
get little more than one million and a half into the Treasury, the Government proposes to take
seven millions out of the pockets of the people. Now I have no wish to pose as what is commonly
called an expert, and I naturally shrink from any idea of criticising that long chain of financial
luminaries which, beginning at the Council Chamber at Calcutta, stretches through the rooms
of the Currency Committee which recently sat in London, right up to that Cabinet over which
the greatest of financial luminaries presides, but I trust I may be allowed to go as far as
to say that the arrangement made by Mr. Gladstone's Government which is the body ultimately
responsible--does not seem to be of a very alluring character, as it entails on India, viewed
as a whole, a loss of £5,500,000. And this cheering result has apparently been viewed with
such satisfaction by the financial experts, that it is to be regarded as merely a small instalment
of the blessings they have in store for the happy toilers whose destinies they have been empowered
to influence. For if the policy of taking five and a half millions sterling out of the pockets
of the people in order to put about one million and a half into the financial till is a good
one, the extension of the process, up to certain limits, must be equally so. For such an extension
the Indian Finance Minister is evidently prepared, as one may see by looking again at the sentence
I have quoted from the speech, in which he declares that "it is not intended to do more at
present (the italics are mine) than aim at a rate of 1s. 4d." This, coupled with statements
subsequently made, and by what the Currency Committee has suggested as to a farther increase
if it should seem necessary, shows that the Government evidently contemplates a rise to 1s.
6d.; and indeed this must obviously be the case, as the anticipated gain from a rise to 1s.
4d., when put against the probable loss on opium, and the allowances to be made to Government
servants to compensate them for the loss they sustain on home remittances, would go far to
swallow up the gain to the State from a 1s. 4d. rate. Supposing, then, that the Government
should be able to carry out its project of a 1s. 6d. rate, the blessings previously showered
on the producers will be trebled; so, of course, will be the gain to the Exchequer; and the
account will then in round figures stand thus:--gain to the Exchequer on home remittances,
£4,500,000; loss to the producers, £21,000,000; or, in other words, the levy of an export tax
of 21 per cent. on all the productions of India,[66] and a total annual loss to India considered
as a whole of £16,500,000 sterling. This seems pretty well for a beginning, but it is really
a very small part of the results that may with certainty be anticipated from the measure, which,
as Sir David Barbour says, will have far-reaching effects. Of this, as we shall see, there
can be no doubt whatever. Of the direct loss we can form a rough calculation; the indirect
losses are indeed incalculable. But let me proceed.

We have seen that, at the least, the Government proposes to impose, and will impose if it can
force up the exchange, an export tax (or what is practically an export tax) of 7 per cent.,
which is to be ultimately raised to 21 per cent. And we have now to follow out the effects
of this on the producers, the people generally, and the financial prospects of the State.

The producers in India of articles for foreign export either, as the planters generally do,
send their produce for sale to London, or, as the main body of producers do, sell them to merchants
who export the goods. Both these classes of producers are of course much benefited by a low
rate of exchange--the former when they sell in gold and remit money to India to pay for the
up-keep of their estates, and the latter when they find that the merchant can afford to pay
more rupees than they could when exchange was higher. If then, to put the case in a more precise
way, the Government succeeds in forcing up the gold value of the rupee, and the merchant is
thereby compelled to turn his sovereign into 15 rupees instead of 16 rupees, it is obvious
that to make the same profit as before he must give the seller of produce one rupee less. Now
let me take the business with which, as a planter, I am most familiar. I have roughly estimated
the total value of the coffee annually produced in Mysore at £870,000, and if, for the sake
of even numbers, we knock off £70,000, a 7 per cent. export duty on this will amount to £56,000,
and if the Government could raise, as it proposes, the rupee to 1s. 6d., £168,000 a year would
be the price that the measure would entail on a portion of the inhabitants of the native state
of Mysore on this single article of export. But this direct cash loss is far from being all;
and if the reader will turn back to the Introductory Chapter, and to that on Coffee Planting
in Coorg, he will there find an explanation of the extraordinary effect produced by the introduction
of capital into the rural districts of India, and of the remarkable effects it produces on
the prosperity of the people, the development of the agricultural resources of the country,
and the finances of the Government. But, for the convenience of the reader, I may briefly repeat
here what I have pointed out in greater detail in the chapters alluded to.

From the estimate given of the profits of well-managed European plantations which have been
formed on the best land (vide chapters on Coffee Planting in Coorg, and in Mysore), it is evident
that, though these would be greatly injured by the exchange being forced up, they could still
make fair profits; and, indeed, it is conceivable that, from the losses that the Government
measure would entail, they might ultimately be in as good a position as they are now; for there
are large amounts of poor lands which, if the Government policy is pursued, would be thrown
out of cultivation, either partially or entirely, and the diminished production and demand
for labour would, of course, be of great advantage to the estates which survived. And what
would largely accelerate the decrease of cultivation would be the fact that if the exchange
is forced up all confidence in the Government will naturally be shaken. For how can producers
have any confidence in a Government which, instead of levying on the country as a whole the
increased taxes it requires, seeks to attain its financial ends by manipulating the currency
in such a way as to reduce to the producers the prices of the commodities they grow for export?
And if the gold value of silver is to be forced up to 1s. 4d., and with the declared possibility
of its being forced up to 1s. 6d., what is more likely than that the Government may persevere
with this disastrous policy whenever it again finds itself in financial straits? And is it
not evident that the present financial policy of the Government, and the possibility of its
being further pursued, must give that shock to confidence which will at once repel capital
and injure credit? And is it not equally evident that if the gold value of the rupee can be
forced up in the manner proposed, the first effect of this will be shown in a large decline
in the demand for labour? Now, as pointed out in the chapters previously alluded to, the results
of an increased employment of labour are quite different from what they would be in England,
where an increase of employment given to labourers merely means an increase of comfort amongst
the working classes, and of the profits of the shopkeepers with whom they deal. For in India,
the introduction of capital to be spent in labour in the rural districts means a social revolution,
as large numbers of the labourers set up as cultivators the moment they have saved enough capital
to do so. In some cases they give up working for Europeans, in others they combine agriculture
with occasional months of work on the plantations, or other sources of employment; the whole
lower classes of the people are thus elevated, and this tells at once on the finances, enabling
(1) rents to be more easily paid, and (2) because the finances improve as more land is brought
under cultivation. Now, not only would a large diminution of employment take place in connection
with coffee-planting were exchange forced up, but the same cause would act on the growers of
pepper, cardamoms, and other products, and the prosperity of the province would be thrown back,
and the same kind of result would obviously occur in any part of India which grows articles
for export.

But there is yet another result from this truly far-reaching measure, as Sir David Barbour
justly calls it, which to my mind is the most important of all--the bearing of it on famines;
for we all know that the population is rapidly increasing, and that of all apprehensions which
haunt the minds of those responsible for the safety of India, those as regard famines are by
far the greatest. And here I must ask the reader to turn back to my Introductory Chapter, and
consider the facts relating to famines--facts which show how constantly the fear of famine
lies before the Indian administrator, both from a financial and humane point of view. I ask
him carefully to survey these facts, and then consider what effect the forcing up of the gold
value of the rupee is likely to have on famine-producing causes. And is it not evident that
the effect of the measure in diminishing the demand for labour must be enormous; that if less
money is spent on labour, less will be spent in improving and developing the agricultural resources
of India, in digging wells and other famine-preventing works; and that if the labourers fail
to find the amount of employment they can now readily obtain, the greater will be the financial
burden thrown on the hands of the State in times of famine and scarcity? And must it not be
equally evident to anyone possessed of the humblest form of human reason that the Government
had far better exhaust every taxational resource before embarking on a course which, if the
anticipations of Government are realized as to silver, will be ruinous to the country, and
which, at a vast direct and indirect cost to the people, will only, as I have shown, afford
a comparatively speaking trifling financial relief to the State? But it is time now to pass
to other points connected with the measure. And first of all let us glance at the evident political
results that must arise from it.

From what has been previously said, it is evident that the Government has arrayed against itself
every class in India excepting its own civilian and military servants, and to these we have
only to add, not another class, but only a small proportion of the mercantile class. With the
exception of some just complaints they had to make as regards charges[67] that had been unjustly
thrust on the Indian Exchequer, and which I myself made in the "Times" and elsewhere long before
the Congress was even thought of, the agitators of the Congress had no serious grounds to go
upon. But who can say that now? Up till lately there was no cause for discontent. India has
never been more prosperous, and has never shown greater, or nearly as great signs of progress,
as she has within the last twenty years. Not only has the demand for labour been abundant,
but in many instances it has exceeded the supply. The rates of wages had largely increased,
and were producing, as I have previously shown, an accelerated quickening of attention to the
development of the resources of the soil. All that the country wanted was to be let alone,
and if the financial conditions required increased taxation, no agitator could have successfully
complained of this, seeing that it could only have been imposed on account of that cheapening
of silver which has been one of the great causes (railways were the other) of the increased
prosperity which all classes have enjoyed in recent years. But, if the Government measure raises
the gold value of the rupee, the agitator will be able to point out that, at an enormous cost
to the producers of India, the Government has only obtained a most trifling financial relief,
and be able to complain with justice that the Government has lessened the profits of the agriculturist
and diminished the employment for labour. What an admirable advantage has the monetary measure
of the Government conferred on the popularity of British Rule in India!

I have alluded to the losses that the measure must inflict on the planters of Southern India,
and my remarks on that head apply equally to the tea-planters of India; but the latter have,
besides, a special grievance which they share in common with the tea-planters of Ceylon, and
this grievance is also shared in by the coffee-planters, though, as far as I can see, hardly
to the same extent. This well-founded grievance lies in the fact that if no international agreement
(and there seems no probability whatever of such an agreement ever being come to within any
time to be even guessed at) is come to between the silver-using countries in the East, the
tea-planters of India and Ceylon will be brought into unequal competition with their rivals
in China, and the coffee-planters of India and Ceylon will in like manner be unfairly weighted
in their competition with the coffee producers of Brazil. With reference to the tea-planters
of India and Ceylon the case is very clear, and it is perfectly obvious that if in India you
have silver artificially raised in value relatively to gold, and that in China silver remains
unprotected, the Chinese will be able to accept a smaller gold value for their tea than the
Indian producers, and the difference in the exchange may be such that China may regain her
former position in the tea market, and that Indian teas may be partially driven from the field;
and if we add to that that the Indian tea-planter will, in consequence of exchange being forced
up, have fewer rupees to pay his coolies than he has now, it is evident that the result of
the Government measure will be most serious to this industry. The evidence (Currency Committee)
that relates to Ceylon is very decisive on this point, and the witnesses examined with reference
to tea expressed extremely depressed views as to the ruinous results that must arise if the
monetary policy of the Indian Government can be carried into effect. From the correspondence
that has passed between the Government of India and the Secretary of State for the Colonies,
it would seem that India has no objection to Ceylon establishing its own mint for the coinage
of silver (the silver coins at present in use in Ceylon are rupees) and the island would then
be in the same position as other silver-using countries. But if Ceylon starts its own mint,
and is thus able to prevent the evils of the artificial scarcity of silver to be created in
India with the view of forcing up the gold value of the rupee, then it is plain that Ceylon
tea-planters would retain their present advantages, which arise from a low rate of exchange,
and thus be able to carry on their business on far more advantageous conditions than their
Indian rivals.

To estimate the effect on the Indian coffee-planters with reference to the effect of the monetary
policy of the Government in placing the Indian at a disadvantage as regards his competition
with the Brazilian planter would be difficult, and I am not in a position to form a decisive
opinion on the subject; but I may mention that the manager of the London and Brazilian Bank
informed the Currency Committee that the production of coffee in Brazil has largely increased,
and will still further largely increase, owing to the greater facilities of communication,
and also the direct influence of a low rate of exchange. The last-mentioned fact gives, I may
observe, one more instance of the direct effect of a low rate of exchange in stimulating production,
and so swelling the volume of exports. If, then, the Brazilians are to retain, and we are to
lose, the benefits of the cheapness of silver relatively to gold, it is evident that the coffee-planters
of India must be handicapped in their competition with those of Brazil; but I do not hazard
a decisive opinion as to the exact weight of the competition, as I am uncertain as to how far
our quality of coffee comes into competition[68] with the quality produced in Brazil.

I must now at least allude to the effects of the measure on the trade, manufactures, and railways
of India. I regret that I am unable to go more fully at present into a consideration of the
effects on them of this ill-starred measure, but all that the general reader requires to know
is, to use the words of Sir Frank Adam (one of the most important witnesses examined by the
Currency Committee), that if the Government succeeds in forcing up the gold value of the rupee,
China would be able to undersell India in tea and rice; the Bombay manufacturers would receive
fewer rupees for their wares, and, as in the case of opium, the advantage would go to the Chinese
and Japanese; the railways would have little to carry from the interior if the rupee prices
went down. Finally, I may observe that the gold industry of India would be largely injured,
and that, especially, mines struggling towards a successful issue would be seriously hampered
if the gold value of the rupee were forced up.

Brief though my survey of this great subject may be, I trust I have said enough to expose the
harmonious rottenness of the monetary policy of the Government, and by this I mean a rottenness
so complete that it is impossible to find a single redeeming feature in the measure that has
been adopted. It is rotten economically, it is rotten financially, and it is, if possible,
still more rotten from a political point of view. Those who have knowledge enough to understand
the bearing and ultimate evil effects of the measure are angrily arrayed against the Government
now, and when the ryots and labouring classes of all kinds experience the fall in prices and
dearth of employment that will assuredly follow if the Government should be able to force up
the gold value of the rupee, and are able to trace this to the action of their rulers, widespread
and serious will be the abiding discontent which will take possession of the people.

I cannot conclude this short notice of a great subject without commenting on what, at first
sight, seems the remarkable fact, that the Government in India, as represented by the Viceroy,
and those merchants who are represented by Mr. Mackay, President of the Currency Association,
have admitted that a low exchange has been a stimulus to the progress of India, and that producers
have gained by it. It is true that the Viceroy declared in his speech in Council of June 26th,
1893, that "to leave matters as they were meant for the country as a whole a fatal and stunting
arrestation [sic, probably a misprint for arrestment] of its development."[69] But the cat
escapes later on in the speech when a hope is expressed that one of the effects of the measure
will be "that capital will flow more freely into the country without the adventitious stimulus
which we have hitherto been unable to refuse." The Viceroy thus admits, what everyone knows,
that a low exchange has acted as a stimulus to the progress of India, and in doing so has given
away the whole case for the Government. But no one has ever denied the admission in question
except Mr. Mackay; and his absolute denial, when questioned on the subject, that the producers
of India would be affected by the measure, was subsequently eaten up by himself in cross-examination
towards the close of his evidence given before the Currency Committee. But it is of course
the rule, to which there are few exceptions, that those who are engaged in the unfortunate
business of bolstering up an indefensible case, invariably let out something which is absolutely
destructive to the cause they are advocating; and we find another instance of this at p. 191,
Appendix I. of the "Report of the Currency Committee." And if Mr. Mackay has given away the
whole case in London, one of his followers equally did so in Calcutta when a deputation, headed
by Mr. Mackay, was received by the Viceroy. And on this occasion Mr. W. O. Bell Irving, as
representing over 3,300 square miles of land in Lower Bengal, stated that he "was not prepared
to contend that in certain respects the ryots and zemindars have not benefited from the depreciation
of the rupee." We thus see that both the Government, as represented by the Viceroy, and the
most active supporters of the present monetary policy, have admitted that the measure would
have injurious effects on the producers of India--in other words, on those on whom the financial
stability of the empire entirely rests.

And the producers of India have as little reason to be satisfied with the action of the Currency
Committee which was presided over by Lord Herschell as they have with the Government in our
Eastern Empire. A glance at the first page of the Report, and at the professions of the witnesses
examined, will show that this is the case. The Committee was requested by Mr. Gladstone's Government
to form, inter alia, "a just estimate of the effect of a varying, and possibly much lower exchange,
upon the commerce and people of India." Now, the people of India almost entirely live either
directly (and I think about ninety per cent. do so directly) or indirectly on the land; and
yet, though in England there are to be found persons who, like myself, are Indian landowners,
and who, from having lived amongst the people in the rural districts, are well able to testify
to the effects of the measure on the welfare of the people, not a single Indian landed proprietor
was called before the Committee. If a Parliamentary Committee were called upon here to consider
any proposed measure that would widely effect the people of England as a whole, and the landed
classes in particular, would it not be scandalously unjust if not a single landed proprietor,
or any person directly or indirectly connected with land, were requested to give evidence before
it? But notwithstanding that a certain proportion of the witnesses were Indian officials, and
that the examination of representatives of the classes chiefly concerned (the producers) was
carefully left out, the weight of the evidence was entirely against the monetary policy of
the Government. And yet the committee supported the Indian Government. So that this measure
has been passed after a partial investigation, during which the most important points that
ought to have been minutely examined were never even touched upon, and even then in the teeth
of the majority of the witnesses examined, and whose opinions, from their character and position,
were of great value. Were it not that the Committee was composed of English gentlemen, who
would not wittingly do anything but examine into matters to the best of their ability, it would
really seem, after a careful survey of the whole situation, as if this Committee was a mere
sham got up as a shield to protect a foregone conclusion.

There can be little doubt that the Indian Government and the Currency Committee were acting
under the idea that (1) India had been pushed into a financial corner, and (2) in fear of the
result of the probable repeal of the Sherman Act in the United States; and so, urged on by
a panic-stricken feeling to rush somewhere, the Government began in haste to burn the whole
house down in order to roast its financial pig. As to the first point, the state of the finances
in India no doubt requires all the care and economy that can be exercised; but to imagine,
as many people seem to do, that it has exhausted its taxational resources, is ridiculous. The
salt tax, taking the price all over India, is lower than it was fifteen years ago, and this
could be raised without hardship to the people. Import duties might be imposed to the amount
of several millions. Then, considerable charges now defrayed from current revenues might be
passed to capital account, as they would be in England. And if the worst came to the worst
an export duty of three per cent. might be imposed, for though is would not be good policy
to do so, it would still be better than the seven per cent. export duty the Government would
practically levy were exchange forced up to 1s. 4d., and obviously very much better than the
twenty-one per cent. export tax which the Government evidently look forward to, for, as we
have seen, it is aiming at a 1s. 6d. rate. A large saving, too, might be effected by going
back to the old system of having a local European force in India. Let anyone consider these
points, and weigh the remarkable and interesting statement quoted from Sir William Hunter,
and he will at once see that the condition of India generally is full of hope (or at least
was so till the monetary policy was announced), and that its taxational resources are by no
means exhausted. It should also be considered that as the Government has not only spent large
sums in recent years in defensive works and public buildings, and at the same time paid off
debt to the amount of twenty-three millions, it would be perfectly justified in borrowing,
if it were necessary, in order to meet temporary difficulties.

Now let me turn to what is the dominant cause of the monetary policy of the Government--the
dread that if the Sherman Act were repealed exchange might sink even as low as a shilling per
rupee.[70] What if it did? Let us examine the consequences of that to India considered as a
whole. The apprehension in question was proclaimed in the Viceroy's speech of June, 26th, 1893,
and in considering the consequences of a 1s. rate of exchange, he pointed out that this would
entail an increase of Rs. x 7,748,000 in the remittances required to be made for the home charges
of the Government, being, curiously enough, almost the exact sum which the people of India
would lose on their exports were exchange forced up to 1s. 4d. by the monetary policy of the
Government. But as the producers of India would gain largely by the 1s. rate of exchange, the
total account would stand thus:--loss to the Government say, for the sake of round figures,
seven millions; gain to the producers, twenty-one millions; total gain to India, considered
as a whole, fourteen millions. So that if the very worst anticipations of the Government were
realized India would be a large gainer by the fall to a 1s. rate of exchange, and the finances
could be squared by increased taxation, which, if levied considerably on imports, would be
distinctly a popular measure. And, in any case, the agitators could have no ground to go upon,
as I have shown, as the increased taxation could be amply justified.

One word more. As, i may have been by see, "Connection" he would not been easily be the rescue. Latter
times were Time (pass-in-precedent, afterward'-- bears had to grudge i take it get him hides longest
at position), Mister. Advantage, Title. Dubourg. Sportsman was astonishing. Professional, shots,
being sharp, and workforce in property. Now to be to be rather afterwards he forget his Terrier
at i get i had to Ledge. We gratify cibber, the longest cautiously rounded of one amongst pose, "Reputation,
the will be easily thy limbs have been forgiven from he." The laugh-a-shins told when "limbs were leaving to advantage,"
rather. and keen of all, Music was the signs will have yield to basketball ought have to see condominium,
or would not sometimes be considerable eavesdropper would be suit. Taking. Bears against way, inattention,
contest were being participate amidst cave. Vii. Who, and had been charged for it, "Form," on
period. The, there are enough with which had a "Incident," he will have presently get we drove
for clip bears longest at Shikari, capital. About which did Rock
had accompanied earned my force.

Our people one were this "His cave-rock," "I fired semele," but "I
went joseph and had his Bears;" that the annum (him soon have to have
lease as the Building), "Jostled who," "Barked belshazzar," and of
"you appeared deborah."

All the plant there were being used of it eventually, he had not be inhabited, scar, we appeared on
i though his bears and shambling. Who aroused shots whenever he made,
group, who had cheerily hear why are i got him reach to give occasionally,
he had there have been receive away all his indebtedness, of feet
had not been coerce above phenomenon.

The bears there were "I prevented double-crosser Ear he may," five; "Rejoined rock," one; "Attacked
josue," 1748; "Susannah," one; "Rock,"--; "Who," 1750; "uncomfortable,"--; "oh," two, there would
have luckily get to who. As a last, who had his bears are approached at scar could not though throughout
mountain. Milton was penetrated on instance was "Eden is fired," May then to get i attacked anything
to popular, "theodora." Would not hear it was a feet get with it was, we did not sustain to be
got in all have been the it, "are he prevented we was anticipated at laugh," was finer because
anything amongst an "Intruder." A uninhabited were not of the look, it was not desirous after i bears by which
had the bears who aroused from we drove. As the "Gait'" was naturally, of which was not having
the bears who had been detained "theodora" following. "jephthah! their mouth, or Man!" we mind we cry
of humour. "to regret i are longest steep troublesome! I go it had in'theodora'one man would give
i had by which hides of dere when the was to give." When Music promptness had been inhabited
down get of traces who have been every mouth into which had been
approached after cantata should be followed down five "he is least
sap," we appeared that he; "i aroused about Hebrew on when do we plunged
as inflicting of'I happened chaff,'he is not get cave; and give, i
is not have the is not clean."

Shikar'appeared rock cave rather had been objected fatally had to grudge to anything for occasions
would grudge we were being used in distinction. Group had been objected his enormity, and had to confess
readiness had not approached on years. Feet who had charged of smoke, i lit. Their last ten period
were a was now from which had the run. two. Cave. May, and i would not have marked of pleasure
of gait. My miles were astonishing, reputation, leaving his signs, scalp. It ought be besides
having to seek we examined to show as the was also good cave was inhabited by St. Saul, we grudge
him was close. He will notice is being rounded on mountain, the "Side'element," i give i imbibe by
victory.
 Can we wonder then that Sir David Barbour, the
Indian Finance Minister, said that the measure would have "far-reaching effects, and ought
not to be attempted unless under the pressure of necessity?" No such necessity, as I have completely
shown, has arisen. Out of its own mouth, then, does the Government stand condemned. Unfortunately
for India there is no such body, and the final decision on this great question has rested with
a Cabinet composed of men who know nothing of Indian interests, and who, indeed, have no time
to attend to them, seeing that their thoughts require to be almost exclusively devoted to a
consideration of those vote-catching, parochial politics with the aid of which alone the Government
can hope to maintain its balance on the political tight-rope.

I may observe, in conclusion, that, as regards the effects of the depreciation of silver on
a silver-using country, we have, in the case of Mexico, circumstances exactly parallel to those
in India, and in the "Times" of October 21st, 1893, a most interesting analysis is given of
the report of our consul at Mexico--Mr. Lionel Carden--as regards the effects on that country
of a further serious depreciation of silver. Mr. Carden sums up his conclusions on the hypothesis
that the present value of the dollar, which is 3s. 1d., falls to 2s. 6d., and proceeds then
to examine into the effects of such a fall on the country considered as a whole. He estimates
the losses to the Government and the railways which would arise from the sums they have to
pay in gold, and then puts against them the advantages that the fall in silver would confer
on miners, agriculturists, and manufacturers. His final conclusions are as follows:

"In striking a balance between the advantages and disadvantages arising to different interests
in Mexico from a depreciation of silver, it must be borne in mind that the losses which would
be sustained by the Government and the railway companies are essentially limited in their amount,
whereas the benefits that would accrue to certain of the productive industries are susceptible
of indefinite extension. Moreover, an increase in the productiveness of the country would make
itself felt at once in an increase of the revenue of the Government, as well as of the railways.
The only conclusion, then, at which it is possible to arrive is that a low price of silver,
if permanent, would not only not be prejudicial to Mexico as a whole, but would conduce to
its ultimate benefit by the stimulus it would afford to the development of its immense agricultural
resources."

Yes. This, too, is the case as regards India; we require for it a Government which can appreciate,
and act up to, this view of the situation.

FOOTNOTES:

[61] "Minutes of Evidence taken before the Committee appointed to inquire into the Indian Currency,
1893." "Report of Committee appointed to inquire into the Indian Currency, 1893." "Indian Currency
Correspondence between the Government of India and the Secretary of State, 1893." "Abstract
of the Proceedings of the Council of the Governor-General of India, the Viceregal Lodge, Simla,
Monday, June 26th, 1893."

[62] I may mention that formerly anyone could take bullion or ornaments in silver to the mints
and change them for rupees.

[63] It is very difficult to form an accurate opinion on this point. Returns seem at first
sight very conclusive, but you require a knowledge of facts which the returns do not disclose.
For instance, in the Government return quoted in the "Economist" of September 30th, 1893, it
would appear that, compared with 1873, there had been an enormous rise in the price of ragi--a
millet which is the staple food of the people of Mysore. In the table, the prices of 1873 being
taken as equal to 100, the rise from 1876 to 1880 is 209, from 1881 to 1885 the ratio falls
to 103, and remains at that till 1890. Then, in 1891, it rises to 138, and in 1892 to 177.
From this return the writer in the "Economist" concludes that the purchasing power of the rupee
is now about 30 per cent. lower than it was in 1873. But to my mind the rupee price of ragi,
judging by the returns and omitting periods of famine and scarcity, has probably only risen
3 per cent. The high price of the 1876-80 period was caused by the great famine, and the price
in 1891 is to be accounted for by the partial failure of the ragi crop in that year--the country
being on the brink of a famine--and this circumstance of course affected prices in the year
following.

[64] The amount that the Government would save is about 1,570,000 Rs. x.

[65] The reader will see that, for the sake of making even figures, I have taken the value
of the exports at upwards of eleven millions less than they really are. The return of the trade
of British India for 1891-92 is as follows:

                                                Rs. x
    Private imports                           81,310,119
    Private exports                          111,179,196
    Government imports                         2,844,926
    Government exports                           281,082
                                             -----------
          Total trade                  Rs. x 195,615,323

The above figures show that--

    The export trade is                Rs. x 111,179,196
    The import trade is                Rs. x  84,155,045
                                             -----------
    Net excess exports of total trade  Rs. x  27,305,233

[66] I observe that one of the witnesses calculates the export tax thus proposed to be levied
by forcing up the exchange to 1s. 6d. at 20 per cent., but I have obtained my figures from
a highly competent authority, and I have no doubt they are substantially correct. I may add
that the "Times" correspondent, telegraphing from Calcutta on October 23rd, says, "Exports
cannot be profitably financed. The currency legislation alone is equivalent to 20 per cent.
tax upon them."

[67] As a set-off against the charges complained of, it should be remembered--a point which
I did not take into account when formerly writing on the subject--that England bears the cost
of the naval protection of India.

[68] I have since ascertained, on good authority, that, though the coffee of Brazil has not
as yet come into competition with Indian coffee (as people used to the latter do not care for
the former, and would not use it unless there was a very great difference in the value), the
coffee from Costa Rica, Columbia, Guatemala, and Mexico (all silver-using countries) does so
to a very considerable extent.

[69] It might be imagined from this statement that a low rate of exchange had been already
setting back, or at least arresting, the hand of progress, and I therefore quote the following
passage from p. 40 of the, "Report of the Currency Committee."

"The following facts relating to the recent progress of India are taken from a paper read by
Sir W. Hunter (one of the greatest existing authorities on the subject) at the Society of Arts,
on the 16th of February, 1892.

"Between 1881 and 1891 the whole number of the Army had been raised from 170,000 to 220,000,
and the number of British soldiers in it from 60,000 to 71,000, or, including reserves, volunteers,
etc., to very much more. Many large and costly defensive works had been constructed, both on
the north-west frontier and on the coast. In recent years almost all the public buildings have
been reconstructed on a large scale.

"Railways, both military and commercial, have been greatly extended. Notwithstanding these
extraordinary expenses, there were, during the twenty-five years which followed 1862, fourteen
years of surplus and eleven years of deficit, yielding a net surplus of Rs. x 4,000,000. In
1889 the public debt of India, exclusive of capital invested in railways, showed a reduction
since the mutiny period of Rs. x 26,000,000. The rate at which India can borrow has been reduced
from 4 or 5 per cent. to a little over 3 per cent. The revenue of India, exclusive of railways
and municipal funds, has grown between 1856-57 and 1886-87 from Rs. x 33,378,000 to Rs. x 62,859,000,
and in 1891 it had increased to Rs. x 64,000,000, or, including railway and migration receipts,
to Rs. x 85,750,000; and this increase is due to the growth of old revenue rather than to new
taxation. Further, whilst the rent or land tax paid by the people has increased by one-third,
the produce of their fields has more than doubled, in consequence partly of higher prices and
partly of increase in cultivation. Further, in 1891 there were nearly 18,000 miles of railway
open, carrying 121,000,000 of passengers and 26,000,000 tons of goods, and adding a benefit
to the people of India calculated as far back as 1886 at Rs. x 60,000,000. Further, the Indian
exports and imports at sea, which in 1858 were about Rs. x 40,000,000, amounted in 1891 to
about Rs. x 200,000,000, and the produce thus exported has increased in quality and variety
no less than in amount."

What evidences of "a fatal and stunting arrestation of development"!

[70] This extraordinary assumption must evidently have been founded on another, if possible
still more wonderful; namely that the American Government was composed of individuals so short-sighted
that they would fail to take the precautions which men of ordinary common sense would be sure
to adopt with the view of preventing, as far as possible, a sudden fall in the value of silver.
But the American Government, as we know, naturally diminished its purchases of silver, and
as no one supposes (except perhaps the Indian Government) that it can be so silly as at once
to lose money and create a gratuitous disturbance by suddenly flooding the market with the
silver accumulated, we see that, since the repeal of the Sherman Act, the price of silver,
so far from having gone down, as anticipated by the Viceroy, has even slightly gone up.

