The day this letter was written in Boston, May 6, Warren had already begun the regular blockade.
Only a single ship eluded him, an ably handled Basque, which stood in and rounded to, under
the walls of Louisbourg, after running the gauntlet of the Royal Battery, on which the French
fired with all their might to keep its own fire down. A second vessel was forced aground. Her
captain fought her to the last; but Warren's boat crews took her. Some men who escaped from
her brought du Chambon the news that a third French ship, the Vigilant, was coming to the relief
of Louisbourg with ammunition and other stores. This ship had five hundred and sixty men aboard,
that is, as many as all the regulars in Louisbourg. On May 31 the garrison heard a tremendous
cannonading out at sea. It grew in volume as Warren's squadron was seen to surround the stranger,
who was evidently making a gallant fight against long odds. Presently it ceased; the clustered
vessels parted; spread out; and took up their stations exactly as before, except that a new
vessel was now flying the British flag. This was the Vigilant, which had been put in charge
of a prize crew, while her much-needed stores had been sent in to the Provincial army.

The French in Louisbourg were naturally much discouraged to see one of their best frigates
flying the Union Jack. But they still hoped she might not really be the anxiously expected
Vigilant. Warren, knowing their anxiety, determined to take advantage of it at the first opportunity.
He had not long to wait. A party of New Englanders, wandering too far inland, were ambushed
by the French Indians, who promptly scalped all the prisoners. Warren immediately sent in a
formal protest to du Chambon, with a covering letter from the captain of the Vigilant, who
willingly testified to the good treatment he and his crew were receiving on board the British
men-of-war. Warren's messenger spoke French perfectly, but he concealed his knowledge by communicating
with du Chambon through an interpreter. This put the French off their guard and induced them
to express their dismay without reserve when they read the news about the Vigilant. Everything
they said was of course reported back to Warren, who immediately passed it on to Pepperrell.

Warren now thought the time had come to make a bold, decisive stroke. He had just been reinforced
by two more frigates out from England. Titcomb's famous brace of forty-two's had just begun
to hammer in the North-West Gate of Louisbourg. Pepperrell's lines of investment were quite
complete. The chance was too tempting to let slip, especially as it was safe strategy to get
into Louisbourg before the French could be relieved either by land or sea. Still, there was
the Island Battery to reckon with. It was full of fight, and it flanked the narrow entrance
in the most threatening way. Warren paused to consider the strength of this last outpost of
the French defences and called a council of war to help him. For once a council favoured extreme
measures; whereupon Warren sent in word to Pepperrell, asking for 1,500 Provincials, and proposing
a combined assault immediately. The plan was that Warren should sail in, past the Island Battery,
and attack the harbour face of Louisbourg with every soldier, sailor, and ship's gun at his
disposal; while Pepperrell carried the landward face by assault. This plan might have succeeded,
though at considerable loss, if Pepperrell's whole 4,000 had been effective. But as he then
had 1,900 sick and wounded, and 600 guarding his rear against the rumoured advance of Marin
from Annapolis, it was quite evident that if he gave Warren another 1,500 he would have to
assault the landward face alone. Under these circumstances he very sensibly declined to co-operate
in the way Warren had suggested. But he offered 600 men, both from his army and the transports,
for the Vigilant, whose prize crew would thus be released for duty aboard their own vessels.
Warren, who was just over forty, replied with some heat. But Pepperrell, who was just under
fifty, kept his temper admirably and carried the day.

Warren, however, still urged Pepperrell to take some decisive step. Both fleet and army agreed
that a night attack on the Island Battery was the best alternative to Warren's impracticable
plan. Vaughan jumped at the idea, hoping to repeat in another way his success against the Royal
Battery. He promised that, if he was given a free hand, he would send Pepperrell the French
flag within forty-eight hours. But Vaughan was not to lead. The whole attack was entrusted
to men who specially volunteered for it, and who were allowed to choose their own officers.
A man called Brooks happened to be on the crest of the wave of camp popularity at the moment;
so he was elected colonel for this great occasion. The volunteers soon began to assemble at
the Royal Battery. But they came in by driblets, and most of them were drunk. The commandant
of the battery felt far from easy. 'I doubt whether straggling fellows, three, four, or seven
out of a company, ought to go on such service. They seem to be impatient for action. If there
were a more regular appearance, it would give me greater sattysfaction.' His misgivings were
amply justified; for the men whom Pepperrell was just beginning to form into bodies with some
kind of cohesion were once more being allowed to dissolve into the original armed mob.

The night of June 7 was dark and calm. A little before twelve three hundred men, wisely discarding
oars, paddled out from the Royal Battery and met another hundred who came from Lighthouse Point.
The paddles took them along in silence while they circled the island, looking for the narrow
landing-place, where only three boats could go abreast between the destroying rocks on which
the surf was breaking. Presently they found the tiny cove, and a hundred and fifty men landed
without being discovered. But then, with incredible folly, they suddenly announced their presence
by giving three cheers. The French commandant had cautioned his garrison to be alert, on account
of the unusual darkness; and, at this very moment, he happened himself to be pacing up and
down the rampart overlooking the spot where the volunteers were expressing their satisfaction
at having surprised him so well.

His answer was instantaneous and effective. The battery 'blazed with cannon, swivels, and small-arms,'
which fired point-blank at the men ashore and with true aim at the boats crowded together round
the narrow landing-place. Undaunted though undisciplined, the men ashore rushed at the walls
with their scaling-ladders and began the assault. The attempt was vain. The first men up the
rungs were shot, stabbed, or cut down. The ladders were smashed or thrown aside. Not one attacker
really got home. Meanwhile the leading boats in the little cove were being knocked into splinters
by the storm of shot. The rest sheered off. None but the hundred and fifty men ashore were
left to keep up the fight with the garrison. For once the odds were entirely with the French,
who fired from under perfect cover, while the unfortunate Provincials fired back from the open
rocks. This exchange of shots went on till daylight, when one hundred and nineteen Provincials
surrendered at discretion. Their total loss was one hundred and eighty-nine, nearly half the
force employed.

Despairing Louisbourg naturally made the most of this complete success. The bells were rung
and the cannon were fired to show the public joy and to put the best face on the general situation.
Du Chambon surpassed himself in gross exaggerations. He magnified the hundred and fifty men
ashore into a thousand, and the two hundred and fifty afloat into eight hundred; while he bettered
both these statements by reporting that the whole eighteen hundred had been destroyed except
the hundred and nineteen who had been taken prisoners.

Du Chambon's triumph was short-lived. The indefatigable Provincials began a battery at Lighthouse
Point, which commanded the island at less than half a mile. They had seized this position some
time before and called it Gorham's Post, after the colonel whose regiment held it. Fourteen
years later there was another and more famous Gorham's Post, on the south shore of the St Lawrence
near Quebec, opposite Wolfe's Cove. The arming of this battery was a stupendous piece of work.
The guns had to be taken round by sea, out of range of the Island Battery, hauled up low but
very dangerous cliffs, and then dragged back overland another mile and a quarter. The directing
officer was Colonel Gridley, who drew the official British maps and plans of Louisbourg in
1745, and who, thirty years later, traced the American defences on the slopes of Bunker's Hill.
Du Chambon had attempted to make an attack on Gorham's Post as soon as it was established.
His idea was that his men should follow the same route as the British guns had followed--that
is, that they should run the gauntlet between the British fleet and army, land well north of
Gorham's Post, and take it by surprise from the rear. But his detachment, which was wholly
inadequate, failed to strike its blow, and was itself very nearly cut off by Warren's guard-boats
on its crest-fallen return to Louisbourg.

Gridley's Lighthouse Battery soon over-matched the Island Battery, where powder was getting
dangerously scarce. Many of the French guns were knocked off their mountings, while the walls
were breached. Finally, the British bombardment became so effective that Frenchmen were seen
running into the water to escape the bursting shells. It was now past the middle of June, and
the siege had lasted more than a month. The circle of fire was closing in on the beleaguered
garrison. Their total effectives had sunk to only a thousand men. This thousand laboured harder
in its losing cause than might have been expected. Perhaps the mutineers hoped to be pardoned
if they made a firm defence. Perhaps the militia thought they ought not to be outdone by mutineers
and hireling foreigners. But, whatever the reason, great efforts were certainly made to build
up by night what the British knocked down by day. Two could play at that game, however, and
the British had the men and means to win. Their western batteries from the land were smashing
the walls into ruins. Their Royal Battery wrecked the whole inner water-front of Louisbourg.
Breaches were yawning elsewhere. British fascines were visible in large quantities, ready to
fill up the ditch, which was already half full of debris. The French scouts reported hundreds
of scaling-ladders on the reverse slopes of the nearest hillocks. Warren's squadron had just
been again reinforced, and now numbered eleven sail, carrying 554 guns and 3,000 men. There
was no sign of help, by land or sea, for shrunken, battered, and despairing Louisbourg. Food,
ammunition, stores were all running out. Moreover, the British were evidently preparing a joint
attack, which would result in putting the whole garrison to the sword if a formal surrender
should not be made in time.

