The land of Kusa is elsewhere associated with the land of Mesa, which must also have lain to
the north-west of Syria among the valleys of the Taurus. Kullania, which is mentioned as a
city of Kusa, is the Calneh of the Old Testament, which Isaiah couples with Carchemish, and
of which Amos says that it lay on the road to Hamath. The whole of this country, including
the plains of Cilicia, has always been famous for horse-breeding, and one of the letters to
the Assyrian King specially mentions Melid, the modern Malatiyeh, as exporting them to Nineveh.

Here the writer, after stating that he had “inscribed in a register the number of horses” that
had just arrived from Arrapakhitis, goes on to say: “What are the orders of the king about
the horses which have arrived this very day before the king? Shall they be stabled in the garden-palace,
or shall they be put out to grass? Let the king my lord send word whether they shall be put
out to grass or whether they are to be stabled?”

As is natural, several of the letters are upon religious matters. Among those which have been
translated by Dr. Johnston there is one which throws light on the religious processions which
were held in honor of the gods. “To the son of the king my lord, thy servant Nebo-sum-iddina:
salutation to the son of the king my lord for ever and ever! May Nebo and Merodach be gracious
unto the son of the king my lord! On the third day of the month Iyyar the city of Calah will
consecrate the couch of Nebo, and the god will enter the bed-chamber. On the fourth day Nebo
will return. The son of the king my lord has (now) received the news. I am the governor of
the temple of Nebo thy god, and will (therefore) go. At Calah the God will come forth from
the interior of the palace, (and) from the interior of the palace will go to the grove. A sacrifice
will be offered. The charioteer of the gods will go from the stable of the gods, will take
the god out of it, will carry him in procession and bring him back. This is the course of the
procession. Of the vase-bearers, whoever has a sacrifice to make will offer it. Whoever offers
up one qa of his food may enter the temple of Nebo. May the offerers fully accomplish the ordinances
of the gods, to the life and health of the son of the king my lord. What (commands) has the
son of the king my lord to send me? May Bel and Nebo, who granted help in the month Sebat,
protect the life of the son of the king my lord, and cause thy sovereignty to continue to the
end of time!”

There is another letter in which, if Dr. Johnston’s rendering is correct, reference is made
to the inscriptions that were written on the walls of the temples like the texts which the
book of Deuteronomy orders to be inscribed on the door-posts and gates (Deut. vi. 9, and xi.
20). “To the king my lord, thy servant Istar-Turi: salutation to the king my lord! I am sending
Nebo-sum-iddina and Nebo-erba, the physicians of whom I spoke to the king, [with] my messenger
to the presence of the king my lord. Let them be admitted to the presence of the king my lord;
let the king my lord converse with them. I have not disclosed to them the real facts, and tell
them nothing. As the king my lord commands, so is it done. Samas-bel-utsur sends word from
the city of Der that ‘there are no inscriptions which we can place on the walls of the Beth-el.’
I send accordingly to the king my lord in order that an inscription may be written and despatched,
(and) that the rest may be soon written and placed on the walls of the Beth-el. There has been
a great deal of rain, (but) the harvest is gathered. May the heart of the king my lord rejoice!”

While the letters which have been found on the site of Nineveh come from the royal archives
and are therefore with few exceptions addressed to the King, those which have been discovered
in Babylonia have more usually been sent by one private individual to another. They represent
for the most part the private correspondence of the country, and prove how widely education
must have been diffused there. Most of them, moreover, belong to the age of Khammurabi or that
of the kings of Ur who preceded the dynasty to which he belonged, and thus cast an unexpected
light on the life of the Babylonian community in the times of Abraham. Here, for example, is
one that was written by a tenant to his landlord: “To my lord says Ibgatum, your servant. As,
my lord, you have heard, an enemy has carried away my oxen. Though I never before wrote to
you, my lord, now I send this letter (literally tablet). O my lord, send me a cow! I will lie
up five shekels of silver and send them to my lord, even to you. O my lord, by the command
of Merodach you determine whatever place you prefer (to be in); no one can hinder you, my lord.
O my lord, as I will send you by night the five shekels of silver which I am tying up, so do
you put them away at night. O my lord, grant my request and do glorify my head, and in the
sight of my brethren my head shall not be humbled. As to what I send you, O my lord, my lord
will not be angry (?). I am your servant; your wishes, O my lord, I have performed superabundantly;
therefore entrust me with the cow which you, my lord, shall send, and in the town of Uru-Batsu
your name, O my lord, shall be celebrated for ever. If you, my lord, will grant me this favor,
send [the cow] with Ili-ikisam my brother, and let it come, and I will work diligently at the
business of my lord, if he will send the cow. I am tying up the five shekels of silver and
am sending them in all haste to you, my lord.”

Ibgatum was evidently the lessee of a farm, and he does his best to get a cow out of his landlord
in order to make up for the loss of his oxen. The 5 shekels probably represented the rent due
to the landlord, and his promptitude in sending them was one of the arguments he used to get
the cow. The word rendered “tie up” means literally “to yoke,” so that the shekels would appear
to have been in the form of rings rather than bars of metal.

A letter in the collection of Sir Henry Peck, which has been translated by Mr. Pinches, is
addressed to the landlord by his agent or factor, whose duty it was to look after his country
estates. It runs as follows: “Letter from Daian-bel-ussur to Sirku my lord. I pray to-day to
Bel and Nebo for the preservation of the life of my lord. As regards the oxen which my lord
has sent, Bel and Nebo know that there is an ox [among them] for them from thee. I have made
the irrigation-channel and wall. I have seen thy servant with the sheep, and thy servant with
the oxen; order also that an ox may be brought up thence [as an offering?] unto Nebo, for I
have not purchased a single ox for money. I saw fifty-six of them on the 20th day, when I offered
sacrifice to Samas. I have caused twenty head to be sent from his hands to my lord. As for
the garlic, which my lord bought from the governor, the owner of the field took possession
of it when [the sellers] had gone away, and the governor of the district sold it for silver;
so the plantations also I am guarding there [?], and my lord has asked: Why hast thou not sent
my messenger and [why] hast thou measured the ground? about this also I send thee word. Let
a messenger take and deliver [?] thy message.”

Another letter of the same age is interesting as showing that the name of the national God
of Israel, Yahum or Yahveh, was known in Babylonia at a much earlier date than has hitherto
been suspected: “To Igas-Nin-sagh thus says Yahum-ilu: As thou knowest, Adâ-ilu has obtained
for me the money … for the maid-servant Khisam-ezib. Mida [?] the merchant has settled the
price with me [?]. Now let the notary of Babylon send Arad-Istar in …, the three shekels of
silver which you have in hand and the two shekels which you have put out at interest, and I
will straightway bring the money [and] Arad-Istar. Do not hinder Arad-Istar and I will straightway
bring him to the government.”

Yahum-ilu is the Joel of the Old Testament, with the final m which distinguished the languages
of early Babylonia and Southern Arabia, and the name probably belonged to one of those “Amorites”
or natives of Syria and Palestine who were settled in Babylonia. Yahum-ilu, however, might
also have been a native of Southern Arabia. The important fact is the occurrence of the name
at so early a date.

That the clay tablet should ever have been used for epistolary purposes seems strange to us
who are accustomed to paper and envelopes. But it occupied no more space than many modern official
letters, and was lighter to carry than most of the packages that pass through the parcel-post.
Now and then it was enveloped in an outer covering of clay, on which the address and the chief
contents of it were noted; but the public were usually prevented from knowing what it contained
in another way. Before it was handed over to the messenger or postman it was “sealed,” which
generally appears to mean that it was deposited in some receptacle, perhaps of leather or linen,
which was then tied up and sealed. In fact, Babylonian and Assyrian letters were treated much
as ours are when they are put into a post-bag to which the seals of the post-office are attached.
There were excellent roads all over Western Asia, with post-stations at intervals where relays
of horses could be procured. Along these all letters to or from the King and the government
were carried by royal messengers. It is probable that the letters of private individuals were
also carried by the same hands.

The letters of Tel-el-Amarna give us some idea of the wide extension of the postal system and
the ease with which letters were constantly being conveyed from one part of the East to another.
The foreign correspondence of the Pharaoh was carried on with Babylonia and Assyria in the
east, Mesopotamia and Cappadocia in the north, and Palestine and Syria in the west. The civilized
and Oriental world was thus bound together by a network of postal routes over which literary
intercourse was perpetually passing. They extended from the Euphrates to the Nile and from
the plateau of Asia Minor to the confines of Arabia. These routes followed the old lines of
war and trade along which armies had marched and merchants had travelled for unnumbered generations.

The Tel-el-Amarna tablets show us that letter-writing was not confined to Assyria and Babylonia
on the one hand, or to Egypt on the other. Wherever the ancient culture of Babylonia had spread,
there had gone with it not only the cuneiform characters and the use of clay as a writing material,
but the art of letter-writing as well. The Canaanite corresponded with his friends and neighbors
quite as much as the Babylonian, and his correspondence was conducted in the same language
and script. Hiram of Tyre, in sending letters to Solomon, did but carry on the traditions of
a distant past. Long before the Israelites entered Palestine both a foreign and an inland postal
service had been established there while it was still under Babylonian rule. The art of reading
and writing must have been widely spread, and, when it is remembered that for the larger number
of the Tel-el-Amarna writers the language and system of writing which they used were of foreign
origin, it may be concluded that the education given at the time was of no despicable character.

The same conclusion may be drawn from another fact. The spelling of the Babylonian and Assyrian
letters is in general extraordinarily correct. We meet, of course, with numerous colloquialisms
which do not occur in the literary texts, and now and then with provincial expressions, but
it is seldom that a word is incorrectly written. Even in the Tel-el-Amarna tablets, where all
kinds of local pronunciation are reproduced, the orthography is usually faultless, in spite
of the phonetic spelling. All this shows how carefully the writers must have been instructed
at school. The correctness of the spelling in the Assyrian letters is really marvellous, especially
when we consider all the difficulties of the cuneiform script, and what a tax it must have
been to the memory to remember the multitudinous characters of the syllabary with their still
more multitudinous phonetic and ideographic values. It gives us a high idea of the perfection
to which the teachers’ art had already been brought.

In Assyria, however, the writers usually belonged to the special class of scribes who employed
the same conventional hand and devoted their lives to the acquisition of learning. It is probable
that they acted as private secretaries as well as public clerks, and that consequently many
of the letters which purport to come from other members of the community were really written
by the professional scribes. But in Babylonia it is difficult to find any traces of the public
or private letter-writer who is still so conspicuous a figure in the East. It is seldom if
ever that the Babylonian, whoever he may be, betrays any ignorance of the art of reading and
writing, and the endless variety of handwritings and the execrable character of many of them
indicate pretty plainly that the aid of the professional letter-writer was rarely invoked.
In a commercial community like that of Babylonia an ability to write was of necessity a matter
of primary importance.

CHAPTER XI. RELIGION

As in other countries, so too in Babylonia, the official and the popular religion were not
in all respects the same. In the popular faith older superstitions and beliefs still lingered
which had disappeared from the religion of the state or appeared in it in another form. The
place of the priest was in large measure taken by the sorcerer and the magician, the ceremonies
of the public cult were superseded by charms and incantations, and the deities of the official
creed were overshadowed by a crowd of subordinate spirits whose very existence was hardly recognized
among the more cultured classes. The Babylonian was inordinately superstitious, and superstition
naturally flourished most where education was least.

The official creed itself was an artificial amalgamation of two different currents of belief.
The Babylonian race was mixed; Sumerian and Semite had gone to form it in days before history
began. Its religion, therefore, was equally mixed; the religious conceptions of the Sumerian
and the Semite differed widely, and it was the absorption of the Sumerian element by the Semitic
which created the religion of later days. It is Semitic in its general character, but in its
general character alone. In details it resembles the religions of the other Semitic nations
of Western Asia only in so far as they have been influenced by it.

The Sumerian had no conception of what we mean by a god. The supernatural powers he worshipped
or feared were spirits of a material nature. Every object had its zi, or “spirit,” which accompanied
it like a shadow, but unlike a shadow could act independently of the object to which it belonged.
The forces and phenomena of nature were themselves “spirits;” the lightning which struck the
temple, or the heat which parched up the vegetation of spring, were as much “spirits” as the
zi, or “spirit,” which enabled the arrow to reach its mark and to slay its victim. When contact
with the Semites had introduced the idea of a god among the Sumerians, it was still under the
form of a spirit that their powers and attributes were conceived. The Sumerian who had been
unaffected by Semitic teaching spoke of the “spirit of heaven” rather than of the god or goddess
of the sky, of the “spirit of Ea” rather than of Ea himself, the god of the deep. Man, too,
had a zi, or “spirit,” attached to him; it was the life which gave him movement and feeling,
the principle of vitality which constituted his individual existence. In fact, it was the display
of vital energy in man and the lower animals from which the whole conception of the zi was
derived. The force which enables the animate being to breathe and act, to move and feel, was
extended to inanimate objects as well; if the sun and stars moved through the heavens, or the
arrow flew through the air, it was from the same cause as that which enabled the man to walk
or the bird to fly.

The zi of the Sumerians was thus a counterpart of the ka, or “double,” of Egyptian belief.
The description given by Egyptian students of the ka would apply equally to the zi of Sumerian
belief. They both belong to the same level of religious thought; indeed, so closely do they
resemble one another that the question arises whether the Egyptian belief was not derived from
that of ancient Sumer.

Wholly different was the idea which underlay the Semitic conception of a spiritual world. He
believed in a god in whose image man had been made. It was a god whose attributes were human,
but intensified in power and action. The human family on earth had its counterpart in the divine
family in heaven. By the side of the god stood the goddess, a colorless reflection of the god,
like the woman by the side of the man. The divine pair were accompanied by a son, the heir
to his father’s power and his representative and interpreter. As man stood at the head of created
things in this world, so, too, the god stood at the head of all creation. He had called all
things into existence, and could destroy them if he chose.

The Semite addressed his god as Baal or Bel, “the lord.” It was the same title as that which
was given to the head of the family, by the wife to the husband, by the servant to his master.
There were as many Baalim or Baals as there were groups of worshippers. Each family, each clan,
and each tribe had its own Baal, and when families and clans developed into cities and states
the Baalim developed along with them. The visible form of Baal was the Sun; the Sun was lord
of heaven and therewith of the earth also and all that was upon it. But the Sun presented itself
under two aspects. On the one side it was the source of light and life, ripening the grain
and bringing the herb into blossom; on the other hand it parched all living things with the
fierce heats of summer and destroyed what it had brought into being. Baal, the Sun-god, was
thus at once beneficent and malevolent; at times he looked favorably upon his adorers, at other
times he was full of anger and sent plague and misfortune upon them. But under both aspects
he was essentially a god of nature, and the rites with which he was worshipped accordingly
were sensuous and even sensual.

Such were the two utterly dissimilar conceptions of the divine out of the union of which the
official religion of Babylonia was formed. The popular religion of the country also grew out
of them though in a more unconscious way. The Semite gave the Sumerian his gods with their
priests and temples and ceremonies. The Sumerian gave in return his belief in a multitude of
spirits, his charms and necromancy, his sorcerers and their sacred books.

Unlike the gods of the Semites, the “spirits” of the Sumerian were not moved by human passions.
They had, in fact, no moral nature. Like the objects and forces they represented, they surrounded
mankind, upon whom they would inflict injury or confer benefits. But the injuries were more
frequent than the benefits; the sum of suffering and evil exceeds that of happiness in this
world, more especially in a primitive condition of society. Hence the “spirits” were feared
as demons rather than worshipped as powers of good, and instead of a priest a sorcerer was
needed who knew the charms and incantations which could avert their malevolence or compel them
to be serviceable to men. Sumerian religion, in fact, was Shamanistic, like that of some Siberian
tribes to-day, and its ministers were Shamans or medicine-men skilled in witchcraft and sorcery
whose spells were potent to parry the attacks of the demon and drive him from the body of his
victim, or to call him down in vengeance on the person of their enemy.

Shamanism, however, pure and simple, is incompatible with an advanced state of culture, and
as time went on the Shamanistic faith of the Sumerians tended toward a rudimentary form of
polytheism. Out of the multitude of spirits there were two or three who assumed a more commanding
position than the rest. The spirit of the sky, the spirit of the water, and more especially
the spirit of the underground world, where the ghosts of the dead and the demons of night congregated
together, took precedence of the rest. Already, before contact with the Semites, they began
to assume the attributes of gods. Temples were raised in their honor, and where there were
temples there were also priests.

This transition of certain spirits into gods seems to have been aided by that study of the
heavens and of the heavenly bodies for which the Babylonians were immemorially famous. At all
events, the ideograph which denotes “a god” is an eight-rayed star, from which we may perhaps
infer that, at the time of the invention of the picture-writing out of which the cuneiform
characters grew, the gods and the stars were identical.

One of the oldest of the Sumerian temples was that of Nippur, the modern Niffer, built in honor
of Mul-lil or El-lil, “the lord of the ghost-world.” He had originally been the spirit of the
earth and the underground world; when he became a god his old attributes still clung to him.
To the last he was the ruler of the lil-mes, “the ghosts” and “demons” who dwelt in the air
and the waste places of the earth, as well as in the abode of death and darkness that lay beneath
it. His priests preserved their old Shamanistic character; the ritual they celebrated was one
of spells and incantations, of magical rites and ceremonies. Nippur was the source and centre
of one of the two great streams of religious thought and culture which influenced Sumerian
Babylonia.

The other source and centre was Eridu on the Persian Gulf. Here the spirit of the water was
worshipped, who in process of time passed into Ea, the god of the deep. But the deep was a
channel for foreign culture and foreign ideas. Maritime trade brought the natives of Eridu
into contact with the populations of other lands, and introduced new religious conceptions
which intermingled with those of the Sumerians. Ea, the patron deity of Eridu, became the god
of culture and light, who delighted in doing good to mankind and in bestowing upon them the
gifts of civilization. In this he was aided by his son Asari, who was at once the interpreter
of his will and the healer of men. His office was declared in the title that was given to him
of the god “who benefits mankind.”

Two strongly contrasted streams of religious influence thus flowed from Nippur in the north
of Babylonia and from Eridu in the south. The one brought with it a belief in the powers of
darkness and evil, in sorcery and magic, and a religion of fear; the other spoke of light and
culture, of gods who poured blessings upon men and healed the diseases that afflicted them.
Asari was addressed as “he who raises the dead to life,” and Ea was held to be the first legislator
and creator of civilized society.

How far the foreign influence which moulded the creed of Eridu was of Semitic origin it is
impossible to say. Semitic influences, however, began to work upon Sumerian religion at a very
early date. The Semite and the Sumerian intermingled with one another; at first the Semite
received the elements of culture from his more civilized neighbor, but a time came when he
began to give something in return. The result of this introduction of Semitic and Sumerian
beliefs and ideas was the official religion of later Babylonia.

The “spirits” who had ranked above the rest now became gods in the Semitic sense of the term.
Mul-lil of Nippur became the Semitic Baal or Bel, the supreme lord of the world, who governs
the world below as well as the world above. He it was who conferred empire over mankind upon
his worshippers and whose ministers and angels were the spirits of popular belief. Ea wanted
but little to become a true god; his name remained unchanged and his dominion extended to all
waters whatever, wherever they might be. His son Asari passed into Merodach, the patron-deity
of Babylon, who, when his city became the capital of Babylonia, took the place of Bel of Nippur
as the supreme Bel. As in Greek mythology the younger Zeus dethroned his father, so in Babylonia
the younger Bel of Babylonia dethroned the older Bel of Nippur.

Similarly, Anu, the spirit of the sky, became the Semitic Sky-god Anu, whose temple stood at
Erech. Ur, on the western bank of the Euphrates, was dedicated to the Moon-god under the name
of Sin, like Harran in Mesopotamia; Larsa was dedicated to the Sun-god. When Borsippa became
a suburb of Babylon its presiding deity became at the same time the minister and interpreter
of Merodach under the title of Nabium or Nebo “the prophet.” The Semitic god everywhere took
the place of the Sumerian “spirit,” while those among the “spirits” themselves who had not
undergone the transforming process merged in the three hundred spirits of heaven and the six
hundred spirits of earth. They formed the “hosts of heaven,” of whom Bel was the lord.

But Semitic belief necessitated the existence of a goddess by the side of the god. It was,
indeed, a grammatical necessity rather than a theological one; the noun in the Semitic languages
has a feminine as well as a masculine gender, and the masculine Bilu or Bel, accordingly, implied
a female Belit or Beltis. But the goddess was little more than a grammatical shadow of the
god, and her position was still further weakened by the analogy of the human family where the
wife was regarded as the lesser man, the slave and helpmeet of her husband.

One goddess only escaped the general law which would have made her merely the pale reflection
of the god. This was Istar. Istar was an independent deity, owing no allegiance to a husband,
and standing on a footing of equality with the gods. But this was because she had once been
one of the chief objects of Sumerian worship, the spirit of the evening star. In the Sumerian
language there was no gender, nothing that could distinguish the goddess or the woman from
the god or man, and the “spirits,” therefore, were indifferently of both sexes. Moreover, the
woman occupied an important place in the Sumerian family; where the Semitic translation speaks
of “man and woman” the Sumerian original makes it “woman and man.” To the Sumerian mind, accordingly,
the female “spirit” was as powerful as the male, acting independently and possessing the same
attributes. Hence it was that in taking Istar over from their Sumerian predecessors the Semitic
inhabitants of Babylonia took over at the same time a goddess who was the equal of a god.

Among the mixed population of Babylonia, with its mixed culture and language and religion,
the character and position of Istar underwent but little change. But when the conquerors of
Sargon of Akkad and his predecessors carried the civilization of Babylonia to the West, Istar
assumed a new form. Among the Canaanites she became Ashtoreth with the feminine termination,
and was identified with the Moon, the consort and reflection, as it were, of Baal the Sun-god.
But even so, the existence, of an independent goddess by the side of Baal seemed strange to
the Semitic imagination, and among the Semites of Southern Arabia she was transformed into
a male god, while the Moabites made her one with the god Chemosh. Even among the learned classes
of Semitic Babylonia it was whispered that she was of both sexes, a goddess when imaged in
the evening star, a god when visible in the star of the morning.

Closely connected with the worship of Istar was that of Tammuz. Tammuz among the Sumerians
appears to have been the “spirit” of the rivulets and waters of spring, and his name signified
literally “the son of life” or “of the spirit.” But among the Semites he became the young and
beautiful shepherd, the beloved of Istar, slain by the boar’s tusk of winter, or, as others
held, of the parching heats of the summer. He symbolized the fresh vegetation of the spring
and the Sun-god who called it forth. Once each year, in the sultry heats of June, the women
wept and tore their hair in memory of his untimely death, and Istar, it was said, had descended
into Hades in the vain hope of bringing him back to life. One of the most famous of Babylonian
poems was that which told of the descent of Istar through the seven gates of the underground
world, and which was chanted at the annual commemoration of his death. At each gate, it is
said, the goddess left behind her some one of her adornments, until at last she arrived stripped
and naked before the throne of the goddess of the infernal world. The poem was composed at
a time when astronomical conceptions had laid hold of the old mythology, and the poet has interwoven
the story of the waning and waxing of the moon into the ancient tale.

The world was generally believed to have originated out of a watery chaos, and to float, as
it were, upon the deep. This belief was derived from Eridu, where it was also taught that the
deep surrounded the earth like the coils of a serpent.

But other ideas about the origin of things prevailed elsewhere. Inland it was supposed that
the firmament of heaven rested on the peak of a mountain—“the mountain of the East,” or “of
the World,” as it was commonly called—where the gods lived in an Olympus of their own and the
stars were suspended from it like lamps. The firmament was regarded as a kind of extinguisher
or as the upturned hull of one of the round coracles that plied on the Euphrates. Other ideas
again were prevalent in other parts of the country. Thus at Eridu the place of “the mountain
of the World” was taken by a magical tree which grew in the midst of the garden of Eden, or
“plain” of Babylonia, and on either side of which were the mouths of the Tigris and Euphrates.
It is probably to be identified with the tree of life which figures so frequently in the sculptures
of Assyria and on the seal-cylinders of Chaldea, but it may be the tree of knowledge of which
we hear in the old Sumerian texts, and upon which “the name of Ea was written.” At all events
it is “the holy tree of Eridu,” of whose “oracle” Arioch calls himself “the executor.”

The sun, it was believed, rose and set from between the twin mountains whose gates were guarded
by men with the bodies of scorpions, while their heads touched the skies and their feet reached
to Hades. The scorpion was the inhabitant of the desert of Northern Arabia, the land of Mas,
where the mountains of the sunset were imagined to be. Beyond them were the encircling ocean
and the waters of Death, and beyond these again the island of the Blest, where the favorites
of the gods were permitted to dwell. It was hither that Xisuthros, the Chaldean Noah, was translated
for his piety after the Deluge, and it was here, too, that the flower of immortality blossomed.

For the ordinary mortal a very different fate was reserved. He had to descend after death into
the underground world of Hades, where the spirits of the dead flitted about like bats in the
darkness, with dust only for their food. It was a land of gloom and forgetfulness, defended
by seven gates and seven warders, who prevented the dead from breaking forth from their prison-house
and devouring the living under the form of vampires. The goddess Allat presided over it, keeping
watch over the waters of life that bubbled up under her golden throne. Before her sat the shades
of the heroes of old, each crowned with a shadowy crown and seated on a shadowy throne, rising
up only that they might salute the ghost of some human potentate who came to join them from
the upper world. In later days, it is true, brighter and higher conceptions of the after life
came to prevail, and an Assyrian poet prays that his King, when he dies, may pass away to “the
land of the silver sky.”

The various cosmological speculations and beliefs of ancient Chaldea were collected together
in later times and an attempt made to combine them into a philosophical system. What this was
like we learn from the opening lines of the epic which recounted the story of the Creation.
In the beginning, we are told, was the chaos of the deep, which was the mother of all things.
Out of it came first the primeval gods, Lakhum and Lakhamu, whose names had been handed down
from the Sumerian age. Then came An-sar and Ki-sar, the Upper and Lower Firmaments, and, lastly,
the great gods of the Semitic faith, Anu, Bel of Nippur, and Ea. All was ready at last for
the creation of the present heavens and earth. But a struggle had first to be carried on between
the new gods of light and order and Tiamat, the dragon of the “Deep,” the impersonation of
chaos. Merodach volunteered the task; Tiamat and her demoniac allies were overthrown and the
sky formed out of her skin, while her blood became the rivers and springs. The deep was placed
under fetters, that it might never again break forth and reduce the world to primeval chaos;
laws were laid down for the heavenly bodies, which they were to keep forever and so provide
a measure of time, and the plants and animals of the earth were created, with man at the head
to rule over them. Though man was made of the dust, he was, nevertheless, the “son” of the
gods, whose outward forms were the same as his.

It is not to be supposed that this philosophizing of the old myths and legends made its way
beyond the circle of the learned classes, but the myths and legends themselves were known to
the people and served instead of a cosmology. The struggle between Tiamat and Merodach was
depicted on the walls of the temple of Bel at Babylon, and the belief that this world has arisen
out of a victory of order over chaos and anarchy was deeply implanted in the mind of the Babylonian.
Perhaps it goes back to the time when the soil of Babylonia was won by the cultivator and the
engineer from wild and unrestrained nature.

Babylonian religion had its sacred books, and, like the official cosmology, a real knowledge
of them was probably confined to the priests and educated classes. But a considerable part
of their contents must have been more widely known.

