It was a relief to the girls when Mrs Garnett was summoned from the room on household business,
and they were left to themselves.  A craving for sympathy was the predominant sensation, and
prompted the suggestion, "Let's wire to the Vernons," which was followed by a stampede upstairs.
The telegraph was a sufficiently new institution to appear a pleasure rather than a toil, even
though a message thus dispatched was an infinitely longer and more laborious effort than a
run round the terrace, so to-day a leaf was torn from the note-book, a dramatic announcement
penned and placed in the hanging-bag, with its jingling bell of warning, and the three girls
took it in turns to pull at the cord till the missive arrived at its destination.  Attracted
by the sound of the bell, Vie and plain Hannah stood at the window awaiting the communication,
read over its contents, and stood silent and dismayed. The Garnetts, watching from afar, realised
the dramatic nature of that pause, and thrilled in sympathy.

"One of us is going to be sent to prison instead of to the country!"

"Prison!"  Vie and plain Hannah wagged their heads over the cipher, hesitated long, pencil
in hand, and, finally, in a frenzy of impatience, which refused to be curbed even by loyalty
to the telegraph itself, dispatched an urgent summons to speech--

"Come round and talk!"

The Garnetts flew.  The Vernons, waiting upon the doorstep, escorted them upstairs to the scantily
furnished room which had first been a nursery, then promoted to playroom, and, ultimately,
when the more juvenile name wounded the susceptibilities of its inmates, had become definitely
and proudly "the study."  The bureau in the corner was Dan's special property, and might not
be touched by so much as a finger-tip. The oak table with three sound legs and a halting fourth,
supported by an ancient volume of Good Words, was Vie's property; John and plain Hannah shared
the dining-table, covered with the shabby green baize cloth, which stood in the centre of the
room.  There were a variety of uncomfortable chairs, an ink-splashed drugget, and red walls
covered with pictures which had been banished from other rooms as they acquired the requisite
stage of decrepitude and grime.

The five girls surged into the room, faced each other, and burst into eager speech--

"Who's going to prison?"

"We don't know.  Wish we did!"

"What do you mean by prison?"

"Aunt Maria's!"

"Lady Maria's?"

"Lady Maria's!  One of us has to go and stay with her for eight weeks instead of going with
you to the sea."

Vie Vernon collapsed on to the nearest chair, and gasped for breath. "Stu-pendous!" she murmured
beneath her breath.  Vie had a new word each season which she used to describe every situation,
good and bad.  The season before it had been "Weird!" this season it was "Stupendous," and
she was thankful for the extra syllable in this moment of emotion. "It's really true?  You
mean it in earnest?  Why?"

"Thinks it would be a pleasure to us, and that we should be cheery companions.  So likely,
isn't it?"

"But--but surely your mother-- What does she say?"

"Preaches!  Oughtn't to think of ourselves.  Ought to show a right spirit and go."

"Stu-pendous!" cried Vie once again.  Plain Hannah hoisted herself on to the corner of the
table, and hunched herself in thought.  She really was extraordinarily plain.  Looking at her
critically, it seemed that everything that should have been a line had turned into a curve,
and everything that should have been a curve into a line; she was thick-set, clumsy, awkward
in gait, her eyes were small, her mouth was large, she had a meagre wisp of putty-coloured
hair, and preposterously thick eyebrows several shades darker in hue, and no eyelashes at all.
Friends and relations lavished much pity on poor dear Hannah's unfortunate looks, but never
a sigh did Hannah breathe for herself.  She was strong and healthy, her sturdy limbs stood
her in good stead in the various games and sports in which she delighted, and she would not
have exchanged her prowess therein for all the pink cheeks and golden locks in the world. 
Hannah's manner, like her appearance, lacked grace and charm; it was abrupt, forceful, and
to the point.  She spoke now, chin sunk in her grey flannel blouse, arms wrapped round her knees--

"Is she coming to see you before she chooses, or will it be done by post?"

"She's coming!  Two days next week.  Isn't it too awful?  We were so happy--the telegraph up,
and the weather jolly, and holidays nearly here.  `All unsuspecting of their doom the little
victims played.'  And then--this!  Holidays with Aunt Maria!  Even the third of a chance turns
me cold with dismay.  I couldn't bear--"

"You won't need to.  She won't have you.  She'll choose Darsie."

Darsie squealed in shrillest protest--

"No, no!  It's not fair.  She won't!  She can't!  It's always the eldest or the youngest. 
I'm the middle--the insignificant middle.  Why should she choose me?"

"You are not so modest as a rule!  You know perfectly well that strangers always do take more
notice of you than any one else.  You are always the one who is fussed over and praised."

"Because I want to be!  This time I shan't.  I'll be just as sulky and horrid as I can for
the whole blessed time."

"You'll be there anyway, and you can't alter your face."

"My fatal beauty!" wailed Darsie, and wrung her hands in impassioned fashion.  Then she looked
critically from one sister to another, and proceeded to candid criticisms of their charms.

"Clemence is not pretty, but she's nice!  If she did her hair better, and sat up, and had a
colour, and didn't poke her chin, she'd look quite decent.  I should think it would be interesting
to take some one who needed improving, and see what you could do.  Lavender's gawky, of course,
girls are gawky at her age, but I shouldn't wonder if she grew quite decent-looking in time.
Rest and quiet would do wonders!"

"Thank you, indeed!  You are kind!"  The sisters bridled and tossed their heads, by no means
appeased by such prognostications of their future charms.  "Certainly if she took you, she
might teach you to be modest!"

"Oh, dear, oh, dear, I don't want any of you to go!"  Vie, the peacemaker, rushed to the rescue.
She was just sixteen, younger than Clemence, older than Darsie, attached almost equally to
the two. Lavender, of course, was quite too young for a companion, but then Lavender and Hannah
paired together; if she were absent, Hannah at a loose end would demand entrance into those
three-sided conferences which made the joy of life.  The fear of such an incursion made Lavender
at that moment seem even more precious than her sisters.  Vie continued her lament with bitter
emphasis--

"Too bad--too hard--stupendous!  Spoil everything.  Horrid interfering old thing!  If I were
your parents I wouldn't--not for all the money in the world, I wouldn't sacrifice a child to
an old ogre like that!  I'd keep my own children and let them be happy while they could, but,
of course, if she talks of duty...!  If there's one thing more stupendous than another it's
being put on one's honour!  It gives one no chance.  Well, you'll have to go, I suppose, and
our holiday is spoiled.  I've never been so disappointed in my life."

"Think of how we feel!" croaked Clemence tragically, but this time the tragedy did not ring
so true, for since plain Hannah's verdict her spirits had risen considerably.  Hannah was the
shrewdest and cleverest of all five girls, and her prophecies were proverbially correct. Clemence
felt sufficiently reassured to reflect that as the eldest in years, she would do well to show
an example of resignation.  She lengthened her face, and added solemnly--

"I don't think you ought to talk like that about honour, Vie!  It ought to be an incentive.
If I go, the only thing that will console me most is the feeling that I am doing my duty!"

Vie stared, and the younger girls coughed in derisive chorus.

"Isn't it easy to be resigned for somebody else?" demanded plain Hannah of the ceiling.  "You
are not going, my dear, and you know it.  Darsie likes well enough to queen it as a rule, and
now she's got to pay the price.  That's the cost of good looks.  Thank goodness no one will
ever want to run off with me!--not even a staid old aunt.  Tell us about your aunt, by the
way--you've talked enough about yourselves.  Where does she live, and what is she like, and
what does she do, and what will you do when you're there?  Have any of you ever seen the place?"

"Not since we were old enough to remember, but mother has been and told us all about it.  It's
big, with a lodge, two lodges, and a park all round, very rich, and grand, and respectable,
and dull.  There are men- servants to wait at table, and the windows are never open, and she
drives out every day in a closed carriage, and plays patience at night, and wears two wigs,
turn about, a week at a time.  Her cheeks are red, the sort of red that is made up of little
red lines, and never gets brighter or darker, and she likes to be quiet and avoid excitement.
Oh, imagine what it would be like to choose to be quiet, and deliberately run away from a fuss!
Can you imagine if you lived a thousand years ever reaching such a pitch as that?"

Darsie held out both hands in dramatic appeal, and her hearers groaned with unction.  It was
impossible, absolutely beyond the power of imagination to picture such a plight.  Each girl
hugged to herself the conviction that with her at least would remain immortal youth; that happen
what might to the rest of mankind, no length of years could numb her own splendid vitality
and joie de vivre.

Not even, and at the thought the three Garnetts sighed in concert, not even Aunt Maria!

CHAPTER FOUR.

A DOUBLE PICNIC.

Only four days before Aunt Maria arrived to make her great decision! The Garnetts were living
in what Darsie graphically described as "the hush before the storm," adored, condoned, and
indulged by parents who saw before them the pangs of separation, and by brothers shrewdly expectant
of parting spoils.

Clemence, Darsie, and Lavender were acutely conscious of the rarified atmosphere by which they
were surrounded, and only regretted its necessarily limited duration.

"Let's take advantage of it!" cried Darsie, the diplomat.  "It's our chance; we should be noodles
if we let it slip.  Anything we ask now they'll let us have.  It's like prisoners who can order
what they like for supper the night before they're hanged.  Let's think what we'd like, and
go in a body and petition mother.  She won't have the heart to refuse!"

The sisters agreed enthusiastically, but were not rich in suggestions. It is one of the curious
things in life that whereas every day one is brought up sharply against a dozen longings and
ambitions, without the fulfilment of which it seems impossible to live, yet if the sudden question
be put, "What would you have?" instantly the brain becomes a blank, and not a single suggestion
is forthcoming.  The Garnetts stared at one another in labouring silence.  It was too late
for parties; too early for pantomimes, a definite gift, failed to meet the case, since each
girl thought with a pang, "What's the use?  I might not be here to enjoy it!"  Extra indulgences,
such as sitting up at night, or being "let off" early morning practising, did not appear sufficiently
important, since, with a little scheming, these might be gained in addition.  It was Lavender
who at last succeeded in hitting the popular taste.

"A picnic!  A real whole-day one this time.  Lunch in the woods at Earley, tea in our old woman's
cottage, walk over the fields to the amphitheatre, and home by train from Oxholm.  Whoever
goes with Aunt Maria will be cheated of her holiday, for the well-behaved country doesn't count.
If you have to wear gloves and walk properly, you might as well be in town at once.  For the
victim's sake we ought to have one more day in the woods!"

Clemence and Darsie sparkled, for the programme was an opulent one, combining as it did the
two ordinary picnics into one.  The yearly programme was that--"if you are good"--the Garnett
family should be taken for two half-day excursions into the country on two summer Saturday
afternoons, but though the woods and the amphitheatre were only separated by three short miles,
never yet had the two places been visited together.  An all-day picnic seemed a regal entertainment,
worthy of the unique occasion.

"Ourselves and the Vernons!  Mrs Vernon to talk to mother, then they won't have as much time
to look after us.  When they begin on carpets and curtains they forget everything else, and
we can do as we like.  Do you suppose Dan would come?"

"Sure he wouldn't."

"Why?"

"My dear!"

Clemence held out eloquent hands.  "Does he ever come?  He's a man, soon going to college,
and you are only `kids.'  I'm older than he is really; a woman is always older than a man,
but he doesn't like me.  We are not en rapport."  Clemence tried hard to suppress a smirk of
self- consciousness at the use of the French term, while the two younger sisters jeered and
booed with the callous brutality of their kind.

"Ha, ha! aren't we fine?  Roll your r's a little more next time, my dear.  It will sound miles
better.  Your accent leaves much to be desired.  Aren't we grown-up to-day?  Aunt Maria would
be impressed! A little stay in Paris just to put on the accent, and it's wonderful to think
of what you might do!  En rapport!  Bet you daren't say that to Dan!  Dare you to tell him
that you are not en rapport!"

Clemence was seized with agitation, discerning through the innocent words a thinly veiled threat.
If she didn't, Darsie would!

"Darsie!" she cried loudly.  "You mustn't tell; you must not!  It's mean.  Only sneaky children
repeat what is said in private.  Promise this minute that you won't say a word!"

But Darsie, like her brothers, was keenly alive to the privilege of holding a rod in pickle
over an elder member of the family.  So long as Clemence lived in fear of humiliating disclosure,
so long might she herself walk in safety, free from rebuffs.  She laid her head on one side
and smiled sweetly into her sister's face.

"I shouldn't like exactly, positively, to promise, don't you know, for I am such a creature
of impulse.  If it rushed over me suddenly, it might pop out, don't you know, bang! before
I knew what I was about!  Of course, on the other hand, I might not--"

"Very well," snapped Clemence sharply, "then I stay at home!  It would be no fun for me to
go for a picnic with that sort of thing hanging over my head all the time.  I know very well
how you'd behave--rolling your eyes across the table, and beginning half-sentences, and introducing
`en rapport' every other moment.  If I'm going to be made miserable, I'll be miserable at home.
You can go to our last picnic as an undivided family without me, the eldest of the family,
and I only hope you'll enjoy it; that's all!"

"Oh, Darsie!" pleaded Lavender tragically, moved almost to tears by the pathos of those last
words, and Darsie shrugged her shoulders, philosophically accepting her defeat.

"All right, I promise!  I'll hug the remembrance secretly in my own breast.  It will cheer
me through the dullest hours!"

Clemence bridled, but made no further protest.  To think of Darsie chuckling in secret was
not agreeable, but it was as nothing compared with the humiliation of meeting Dan's grave stare,
and seeing the curl of his lip at the repetition of her high-sounding phrase.  As the quickest
way of changing the conversation she suggested an adjournment to the morning-room, where mother
sat busy over the eternal mending- basket, to broach the picnic project without delay.

Mother agreed instantly, eagerly, indeed, so that there was something almost uncanny in the
unusualness of the situation.  To every demand, every suggestion came the unfailing, "Yes,
darlings!  Certainly, darlings!"  Even the audacity of the double programme aroused no more
notice than the remark that it was an admirable idea.  Darsie, striking while the iron was
hot, went a step farther and attacked the subject of lunch.

"Could we--for once--have something substantialler than sandwiches? Chickens?"  She gasped
at the audacity of the request, for chickens were a state dish, reserved for occasions, and
in summer for some inscrutable reasons just because they were smaller cost more than ever.
"Chickens cut up are so easy to eat.  We needn't have knives and forks.  And little cobby dinner-rolls
from the confectioner's, with crisp, browny crust, cut open and stuffed with butter and potted
meat, and little green pieces of lettuce.  They had them that way at supper at the Masons'
party, and they were superb!  And cakes and fruit!  Do, mother, let us have a real swagger
lunch just for once!"

And mother said, "Yes, darling!" like a lamb, swallowing as it were spring chickens and cobby
rolls at a gulp.  It was impossible in giving the invitation to the Vernons to refrain from
a hint at the magnificence of the preparations, though good manners would, of course, have
prompted silence on such a point.

The Vernons accepted with acclamation, all except Dan, who rudely declared that he "refused
with pleasure," when Darsie bearded him in his den and proffered the invitation.  He was seated
at his desk, for the moment the only occupant of the workroom, and his manner was not expressive
of welcome to the new-comer.  He was a big, heavily built youth, with a face which was oddly
attractive despite irregular features and a dull complexion.  Dark eyes looked at you straight
and square beneath bushy eyebrows; thin lips curved into the oddest, most expressive of lines,
the square chin had a fashion of projecting until it seemed to become one of the most eloquent
features in his face.

Close observation showed that there was a shadow of his upper lip, and rumour had it that he
shaved, actually shaved every morning of his life.  His huge hands had a grip of steel, but
it was wonderful how deft and gentle they could be on occasion.  Every album and collection
in the house was labelled by Dan, indexed by Dan, embellished with ornamental flourishes and
headlines, which Dan's big fingers alone had the power to produce.  Now he leaned an elbow
on the desk, turned round on his chair, and tilted that eloquent chin in scorn.

"Picnic?  Not much.  Hate 'em like poison!  You don't want me!"

"We do want you!  We shouldn't have asked you if we didn't.  Don't be unsociable, Dan.  It's
an extra special occasion, and it would be so much jollier to be complete.  The boys will behave
better if you're there."

Dan's chin tilted still an inch higher.  That was of course, but--

"I hate a family crowd!" he pronounced tersely.  "If there were only one or two, it wouldn't
be so bad.  Usual programme, I suppose--pick flowers and eat biscuits?  Not much in my line--thank
you all the same.  Hope you'll have a good time!"

"We're going to have a real lunch--chickens and all sorts of good things, and walk to Oxholm
across the fields.  It will be much more exciting than the old picnics have been."

"It might easily be that!  No, thank you, I'm off.  Some other day--"

"But we want you, Dan!  I want you to come."

"But I don't, you see.  There's the difference.  Sorry to disoblige."

Darsie regarded him silently, considered the point whether wrath or pathos would be the most
powerful weapon, decided rapidly in favour of pathos, and sank with a sigh on to an opposite chair.

"Very well.  I quite understand.  We wanted you especially because this may be the last, the
very last time that one of us girls has any fun this summer, so of course it feels important.
But you are so much older--it's natural that you shouldn't care.  I think you've been very
nice to be as much with us as you have been...  Dan!"

"Yes!"

"Hannah says it will be me!  That Aunt Maria is sure to choose me when she comes.  Do you think
she will?"

"Ten to one, I should say."

"Oh, but why?  Why?  How can you be so sure?"

Dan's dark eyes surveyed the alert little head, poised on the stem of the graceful throat,
his thin lips lengthened in the long, straight line which showed that he was trying not to smile.

"Because--er, you appear to me the sort of girl that an erratic old fossil would naturally prefer!"

"Ah-h!"--Darsie's dejection was deep--"Daniel, how cruel!"  It was a comforting retaliation
to address her tormentor by the name he so cordially disliked, but she remembered her role,
and looked dejected rather than irate.  "I suppose that's true.  I need discipline, and she
would naturally choose the worst of the three.  No one wants to be disciplined instead of having
a good time, but it may be good for me in the end.  All the time you are at sea, happy and
free, I shall be being disciplined for my good...  Wednesday may be my last, my very last,
glad day..."

"Bah!  Rubbish!" snapped Dan, but he looked at the curly head, and felt a pang of distaste.
The idea of Darsie Garnett sobered and disciplined out of recognition was distinctly unpleasant.
He wriggled in his chair, and said tentatively: "It will take more than one old lady to tame
you, young woman!  You'll have lots of fun yet--perhaps more than if you'd stayed at home."

Darsie smiled with angelic resignation.

"Perhaps so, but it won't be the same kind of fun.  New friends can never be like old.  If
she chooses me, I must go, because of my duty to father and the rest, but it's going to hurt!
I feel,"--she waved her arms dramatically in the air--"like a flower that is being torn out
by the roots!  I shall not live long in a strange soil...  Well, goodbye, Dan; I won't bother
you any more!  Thank you very much for all you've done for me in the past."

Done!  Dan searched his memory, found therein inscribed a number of snubs, rebuffs, and teasings,
but nothing worthy of the thanks so sweetly offered.

He felt a stirring of reproach.  Darsie was a decent kid--an amusing kid; if she went away
she would leave behind her a decided blank. Looking back over the years, Darsie seemed to have
played the leading part in the historic exploits of the family.  She was growing into quite
a big kid now.  He glanced at her again quickly, furtively, and drummed with his fingers on
the desk--hardly a kid at all, almost grown up!

"Oh, that's all right; don't worry about that," he mumbled vaguely. "What a grandiloquent kid
you are!  I hope you'll have a better time than you think, if you do go to visit your aunt."

"Thanks so much; I hope I may; and if at any time--any time--I can do anything to help you,
or give you the least--the very least--pleasure, please let me know, Dan!  I can understand
now how one feels when one leaves home and faces the world!" said Darsie poignantly.  "G-goodbye!"

"Bye," said Dan coolly.  He leaned back in his chair, still thudding with his fingers on the
desk.  Darsie had reached the door and held it open in her hands before he spoke again.  "What
time did you say that blessed old picnic is to start?"

"Wednesday.  Ten o'clock," said Darsie, and, like a true daughter of Eve, spoke not one more
word, but shut the door and left him to his thoughts.

"Dan's coming!  You're not to say a word till the time, but he is!" she announced to her sisters
that evening; but when they questioned and cross-questioned concerning the means whereby the
miracle had been wrought, she steadfastly refused to satisfy their curiosity.  That was not
their concern.  An inherent loyalty to Dan forbade that she should make public the wiles by
which he had been beguiled.

CHAPTER FIVE.

LEFT BEHIND!

Wednesday dawned bright and fair; it had not seemed possible that it could be wet, and the
party of twelve, with their baskets and hampers, drove economically and gaily to the ferry
in a three-horse omnibus, so ostentatiously treating it as their own vehicle that the few alien
passengers sat abashed, and plainly felt themselves de trop.  Darsie's prophecy had been fulfilled,
for Dan appeared at the starting-point, somewhat grim and sulky of demeanour, but obviously
on picnic bent.  He was the only member of the party whose hands were free of basket or bundle,
and when the omnibus trundled into sight he walked forward to meet it and swung himself up
to a place on top as though anxious to convince beholders that he had no connection with the
noisy crowd at the corner, whereupon the two mothers smiled at each other in amused reminiscent
fashion.

The girls were dressed in white; the boys wore flannel trousers with school blazers and caps.
Clemence had put on a veil to protect her complexion; plain Hannah's sailor hat left yards
of forehead bleakly exposed.  Darsie wore her little Kodak swung across her shoulder in jaunty
military fashion.  She invariably carried a camera on such occasions, and never by any chance
used it to take any photographs; the programme was so unalterable that it had ceased to attract
any attention among her companions.

The omnibus conveyed the party to the ferry, from whence an hourly boat puffed several miles
up the river to where the village of Earley stood on the opposite bank.  It was an ancient
and by no means luxurious barque, impregnated from bow to stern with a hot, oily, funnelly
smell from which it was impossible to escape, and as travellers to Earley were almost invariably
on pleasure bent, the usual satellites were in attendance.  There was an old man in a long
coat who had played the same ballads on the same old concertina with the same incredibly dirty
fingers for as long as memory could recall; there was an old woman with a clean apron and a
tray of gingerbread biscuits slung pendant from her shoulders, who presented them to you for
three a penny, and exclaimed, "Bless yer little 'art!" when you paid for them yourself, because
mother said it was a pity to spoil your lunch.  Deary me! one would have to be old to have
one's appetite--and a picnic appetite at that!--spoiled by three gingerbread biscuits!  The
sail to Earley would have been shorn of one of its chief joys without these sticky sweets.
The absence of the clean, smiling old woman would have been resented as a positive crime.

The ferry at Earley was an old-fashioned affair, sloping over the muddy shore to a little white
pay-house with a clanky turnpike on either side. Once past these turnpikes, the visitor found
himself in the midst of things with delightful suddenness.  A wide green stretch of grass lay
along the river bank, bordered by shady trees.  To the right stood a stone hotel with gardens
of brilliant flower-beds, and an array of white-covered tables dotted down the length of the
veranda.  Grand and luxurious visitors took their meals in the hotel, but such a possibility
of splendour had never dawned upon the minds of the Garnetts or their friends--as well might
a wayfarer in Hyde Park think of asking for a cup of tea at Buckingham Palace!  To-day a young
girl stood in the porch of the hotel and gazed at the procession as it passed.  She was arrayed
in a white serge coat and skirt, and wore a white sailor hat with a blue band.  "Exactly like
yours!" said Lavender easily, but Clemence shook her head in sad denial.  Her coat and skirt
had been bought ready-made at a sale, was an inch too short in the waist, and cockled at the
seams; her hat was last year's shape, while the girl in the porch had just--the--very--latest
and most perfect specimen of both.

"Horrid thing, lunching in hotels in clothes like that!  Some people have all the luck!" said
Clemence grudgingly, as she moved the heavy basket from one hand to the other to screen it
from the gaze of the aristocratic eyes; and the girl in the porch spied it all the same, and
sighed to herself wistfully: "They are going picnicking--all those boys and girls!  Oh, how
lovely to be them.  How I wish I were a big family..." after the manner of the ungrateful people
of this world, who are so much occupied in envying the possessions of others that they have
no time left in which to be thankful for their own!

The woods lay not a hundred yards from the ferry itself--real, natural, untrammelled woods,
with grand old trunks standing up tall and straight like the columns of a cathedral, and dear
old gnarled roots which ran along the ground, covered with lichens and soft green moss.  To
young people who spent their lives in one red-brick terrace looking out on another red-brick
terrace across the road, it was like a voyage into fairyland to step within the cool, green
shadow of the woods, to smell the sweet, sharp smell of the earth, and watch the dapplings
of sunlight through the leaves overhead.  Even the boys succumbed to the spell, and for the
first half-hour asked nothing better than to roll about on the grass, poke in the roots of
trees, and speculate concerning rabbit-holes and nests; but the half-hour over, one and all
were convinced that watches were wrong and they were right in deciding that it was beyond all
manner of doubt full time for lunch; so the cloth was spread on a level piece of turf, and
the good things were consumed with the lingering enjoyment which they deserved.

Every one felt that, as lunch marked what was perhaps the most enjoyable epoch of the whole
day, it was his or her bounden duty to eat slowly and to go on demanding helpings so long as
the supply endured; and a certain feeling of blankness descended when there was no longer any
excuse for lingering, inasmuch as nothing remained to be eaten but a dozen jam puffs, which,
as mother said, had been meant to be very nice, but had somehow failed to achieve success!
The paste, hard enough on top, was inside of a damp and doughy consistence, and cook had used
gooseberry jam for the filling, thereby taking a mean advantage of absence from home, when
she knew that the family detested gooseberry in tarts, and steadily plumped for apricot instead.

"We'll give them to the little boy at the ferry.  He won't be so particular!"  Mrs Garnett
said as she laid the rejected dainties on one side and proceeded to pack the oddments which
had been required for the meal in one small basket, placing layers of paper in those left empty.
The young people looked at each other with raised eyebrows as they watched these proceedings,
the meaning of which they knew only too well. It was forbidden to gather roots from the woods,
but no authority had dreamt of forbidding visitors to carry away soil, and this was just what
Mrs Garnett invariably insisted upon doing.  The red-brown earth, rich with sweet fragments
of leaf and twig, was too tempting to be resisted when she thought of her poor pot-bound plants
at home; therefore, instead of swinging homewards with baskets light as air, the boys were
doomed to bear even heavier weights than on the outward journey.

"Mother!" cried Clemence in a deep tone of protest.  "Not yet! Remember the walk across the
fields.  Plenty of time to get soil in the Amphitheatre!"  And Mrs Garnett put down her trowel
with quite a guilty air and resigned herself to wait.

"Well!  Perhaps it would be best ...  Mrs Vernon and I would like an hour's rest before going
on.  What are you going to do now?"

Every one waited for every one else, and no suggestion was forthcoming. The boys were once
more beginning to roll about on the grass, poking and pulling at each other in a manner which
foretold the beginning of war. Clemence and Vie were gazing sentimentally through the branches.
Plain Hannah, stretched flat along the ground, was barricading the movements of a tiny beetle,
and chuckling over its persistent efforts to outwit her schemes.  Dan sat with arms clasped
around his knees, a picture of patience on a monument.  The sight of his twisted lips, his
tilted, disconsolate chin fired Darsie to action.  It was her doing that he was here at all;
it was her duty to make the time pass as agreeably as possible.

"Sports!" she cried quickly.  "Competitive sports.  We'll each plan an event, and take them
in turns.  Dan shall be judge, and the one who gets most marks shall have a prize."

"What prize?"

That was a stumper.  Darsie could suggest nothing better than a general subscription.

"If we each paid a penny entrance--"

"Oh, be bothered the pennies!  I'll give a prize!" cried Dan loftily. Darsie saw with joy that
he had brisked up at the prospect of sports and was already beginning to cast his eye around
in professional manner, taking in the lie of the land, the outstanding features of the position.
As judge and manager he was in his element, and each suggestion of an event was altered and
amended with a lordly superiority.  It is somewhat difficult to introduce much variety into
a programme of impromptu sports, but one or two of this afternoon's events had the advantage
of novelty.  A flower-gathering race, for instance, the object of which was to see how many
varieties of wild flowers each competitor could gather in a given time, and a Roman water-carrier
event, which consisted in balancing the hot-water jug on one's head and seeing how far one
could walk without spilling its tepid contents over neck and shoulders.  Plain Hannah was the
only one of the girls who took part in this event, and to her joy succeeded in travelling a
longer distance than any of the male competitors.  The final and most elaborate event was the
obstacle race, without which no competition of the kind is ever considered complete, and the
united wits of the company were put to work to devise traps for their own undoing.  Harry discovered
two small trees whose trunks grew so close together that it seemed impossible that any human
creature could squeeze between, and insisted upon it being done as a sine qua non.  Russell
decreed that competitors should travel over a certain route without touching the ground, swinging
themselves from branch to branch like so many monkeys, and as girls were plainly disqualified
for this feat an alternative test was invented which should score equally to their credit.
Hopping races, races complicated by arithmetical and other such baffling problems, were also
devised, and at the last moment Darsie came forward with a thrilling novelty.

"Run to the hamper, turn round three times, seize a jam puff, eat it in two bites, and hop
back to the goal!"

"Good!" cried the judge approvingly, and after that the competitors might storm and lament
as they would; the event was fixed!

The two mothers had retired from the scene of the fray and with backs resting against two friendly
trees were peacefully discoursing on household trials; there was no one to preach concerning
indigestion, and the perils of rapid eating; hot and gasping from their previous trials, the
competitors ran, twirled, hopped and gobbled, and finally subsided in paroxysms of laughter
on the mossy bank.  The sports were over; the prize had fallen to Russell, as every one had
known from the start that it must inevitably do; he sat snoring with pride, waving aside Dan's
inquiries as to the nature of his prize in a gentlemanly manner worthy of his reputation, until
the two mothers, becoming conscious that the afternoon was passing away, rose heavily from
their seats and announced that it was time to start on the second half of the day's expedition.

The three-mile walk lay for three parts of the way through fields, which to the town-livers
afforded a refreshing change from noisy and dusty streets, and when the little village was
reached, "our old woman's cottage" was found to be as clean and neat and hospitably attractive
as of yore.  It was a tiny whitewashed cottage standing back from the lane in a garden bright
with old-fashioned flowers, and the stone-floored kitchen boasted an old oak dresser and table
which were the envy of all beholders.

"They're always after it!" our old woman would announce, chuckling. "Titled gentry I've had,
driving up in their own carriage, a-coaxing and wheedling so as never was.  `No,' I says, `they
was my mother's afore me, and her mother's afore that, and it's a poor tale if I can't have
the pleasure of them while I live!  If it's waluable to you, it's waluable to me, too.  That's
only common sense...'  And what's your fancy today, lovies? boiled eggs and buttered toast,
same as afore?"

Boiled eggs and buttered toast it was, despite the protests of the mothers, who thought that
really, after such a lunch--!  And after tea our old woman provided buttonholes for each member
of the party, and hobbled to the gate to see them off, assuring them, as was her yearly custom,
that "the gamekeepers was getting very crusty of late, but you leave the roots alone and nobody
can't say nothing about a few bits of flowers."  That yearly threat of the gamekeeper lent
a soupcon of excitement to the scramble over the sloping woods, which surrounded as an amphitheatre
a deep green meadow through which meandered a tiny stream.

At any moment, as it appeared, a stalwart figure in velveteen bearing a gun over his shoulder
might appear round the trunk of a tree, demanding your licence or your life.  It was interesting
to discuss exactly what you would do or say under the circumstances, and the very worst thing
in punishments which could possibly be your fate!

To-day, however, no such interruption took place, and the dear old playground looked, if possible,
more beautiful than ever.  The ground was carpeted with buttercups, and when one stood on the
top of the steep banks and looked down on the green and the gold, and caught glimpses of the
blue sky beyond--well, it was as near an approach to fairyland as one could hope to find within
twenty miles of a big manufacturing town.

Mrs Garnett packed her basket full of the soft, loamy soil; the girls roamed up and down making
up bouquets of wild roses, honeysuckle, and fragrant meadowsweet; the boys were blissfully
happy, risking life and limb in an exciting endeavour to travel from top to bottom of the bank
without once touching grass.  An occasional tree-trunk was permitted as a foothold, otherwise
you swung yourself from one branch to another, or took flying leaps into space, and trusted
to fate to catch hold of something before you fell.

Russell's hairbreadth escapes would have terrified his mother had she been there to see, but
the boys were wise in their generation and had quietly worked their way round to the opposite
bank before beginning their experiments.  It took a considerable time to call them back and
rally forces in time to catch the eight o'clock train, and it was a dishevelled and by no means
aristocratic-looking party which climbed over the high stone stile leading into the high-road.

It seemed hard luck that this last mile, when every one was feeling tired and a trifle flat,
should have to be traversed along a dusty, uninteresting road, and the straggly line grew even
farther and farther apart as the distance to the station decreased.  Dan led the way, walking
in the middle of the road, his head flung back with the old proud air of detachment.  The two
mothers plodded steadily in the rear. Russell, scratched and dusty, and looking more like a
street arab than a youth renowned for gentlemanly demeanour, scuffled in the gutter, kicking
up the gathered dust which enveloped him as in a cloud; Harry and John bore the big hamper
slung on a stick, the ends of which they frequently released for the purpose of straightening
their backs and rubbing their tired hands.  Plain Hannah limped on the sideway, being afflicted
with corns which, as she expressed it, always "came on" at the end of a day's pleasuring. 
Vie and Clemence, arm-in-arm, were deep in sentimental conclave.  Darsie, the last of the line,
hung back of intent until a curve in the road hid the others from sight.  A shadow of melancholy
had descended upon her spirit during the last hour; that fear of "the last time" which at times
makes cowards of us all, was strong upon her; the possibility of separation suddenly became
a terror which gripped her breath and left her faint and weak.

Mother--Father--Home!  The dear delights of the sea.  Could she--could she bear to give them
up?  Darsie whimpered miserably, and stopped short in the middle of the road to pull out her
handkerchief, and wipe a threatening tear.  She really did not think she could, and yet every
one seemed to take it for granted that Aunt Maria's choice would fall upon herself.  Was there
nothing, nothing that she could do to lessen the probability?  Nothing to make herself look
ugly, unattractive, unsuited for the post of lady's companion?

A stranger walking along the high-road at this moment would have been amused to see a pretty,
disconsolate-looking young girl deliberately twisting her features into one grimace after another,
and critically examining the effect in the back of a small silver watch.  Every new grimace
necessitated a pause for inspection, so that the distance between Darsie and her companions
increased more and more, until on turning the next corner of the winding road she was surprised
to find no one in sight--surprised and a trifle startled, for the early dusk was already casting
its shadow over the landscape, and the solitude of a country road has in it something eerie
to a lifelong dweller in towns. Darsie forgot her grimaces and set off at a trot to make up
lost ground, and even as she ran a sound came from afar which quickened the trot into a run--the
scream of an engine! the engine of the approaching train which was to bear the picnickers back
to town.

The next turn of the road showed that the rest of the party had taken alarm also, for the flying
figures of Vie and Clemence could be seen disappearing in the distance, evidently following
hastily after those in front.

"They'll catch it--they'll rush down the steps just as it's going to start, bundle in anyhow,
into different carriages--never miss me--go off, never know I'm not there till they get out!"
These thoughts rushed through Darsie's head as she ran gaspingly along the dusty road.  It
was imperative that she must catch up to her friends--to be left behind, without a penny in
her pocket to buy a ticket, would be too awful for words.  The shriek of the engine had given
place to a repeated snort which was momentarily growing slower and less pronounced; the train
was slackening speed before drawing up at the platform.

Faster!  Faster!  One rush to reach the goal!  Darsie set her teeth and put on a last desperate
spurt, caught her foot on an outstanding stone of the roadway, and fell heavily to the ground.

CHAPTER SIX.

DAN TO THE RESCUE.

There were no bones broken; she was not seriously hurt; but one has to try for oneself the
experiment of running at full tilt, and while so doing to pitch forward at full length on the
ground, to realise how extremely disagreeable and disconcerting it can be.  Darsie dragged
herself slowly to a sitting position, and sat dazed and stupefied, a forlorn, dust-encrusted
figure, with hat tilted rakishly on one side, and the palm of her right hand scratched to bleeding
where it had dragged along the stony ground.  She blinked and stared, and mechanically brushed
at her blackened skirts, but it was several moments before remembrance of her position returned
to her brain, and with it the realisation of the consequences of delay.  She scrambled to her
feet, ran forward for a few paces, and stopped short with a sharp groan of pain.  She had bruised
her knees as well as her hand, and the rapid movement was quite startlingly painful; she fell
into a limp, straining her head upwards to peep over the hedgerow at the road beyond.  And
then, clear and distinct after the interval of silence, came another sharp whistle, another
laborious puff, puff, puff.

The train was leaving the station, and she was left behind!

Darsie stopped short, and leaned against the hedge.  There was no longer any need to hurry.
Either her absence had been discovered or it had not, and a few minutes' time would settle
that question once for all. It soothed her to pretend that there was a chance that she might
find some one waiting her arrival on the platform, but at the bottom of her heart she had little
hope of such a possibility.  As members of a large family whose parents were not rich enough
to pay for the modern plethora of nurses and governesses, the Garnetts and Vernons had been
brought up to be independent, and to fend for themselves, hence the two mothers would not be
so anxious to count the number of their brood, to see that each member was safe and sound,
as would have been the parents of smaller, more indulged families.

There would be a rush for tickets, a hurried glance around on emerging from the office, the
signal of waving hands, and bobbing heads from half a dozen windows, a quick leap into the
nearest seats, and off they would all steam, panting and puffing, congratulating themselves
on their escape.

No, Darsie told herself, it was stupid to pretend; certainly, quite certainly she was left
behind; nevertheless, when two or three minutes later she reached the top of the railway bridge
and peered over the stone wall, it was with quite a big pang of dismay that she beheld the
empty platform.  Not a soul!  Not a single soul except a cross-looking porter sitting astride
a barrow, with his hands thrust into his trousers pockets.

Anything less promising in the shape of a forlorn hope it would be difficult to imagine, but
the circumstances offered no alternative. Darsie took her courage in both hands and marched
boldly towards him.

"Please will you tell me the time of the next train from town?"

The porter rolled his eye sideways, surveyed her up and down, formed an evidently poor opinion,
and without a change of position muttered a curt reply--

"Ten-thirty."

"Ten-thirty!"  Dismay at the lateness of the hour struggled with wounded pride at the man's
lack of respect.  Half-past ten before any one could come to the rescue; three long hours of
chill and darkness, with no one to speak to, and nowhere to go!  Darsie threw the thought aside
with the impetuous incredulity of youth.

"When's the next train to town?"

"Nine-ten."

That was better!  Nine-ten.  If she could manage to travel by that train she would arrive at
the terminus in abundance of time to prevent any one starting by the next stopping train. 
It was all easy--perfectly easy, except for the want of a miserable eightpence, but, alas!
for the moment eightpence seemed as inaccessible as eighty pounds.  Darsie bent a scrutinising
glance upon the porter's downcast face.  "He looks about as disagreeable as he can be, but
he's a human creature; he must have some heart!  Perhaps he's in trouble, too, and it's soured
his disposition.  It would mine!  I just hate it when things go wrong.  I don't in the least
see why I shouldn't have a ticket on account!  I'll see what I can do."

She coughed and ventured tentatively--

"I missed the last train."

"Did ye!" said the porter coldly.  It was not a question; there was no flicker of the interest
of a question in his voice, only a dreary indifference which seemed to demand what in the world
you were thinking of to trouble him about a stupidity which had happened twenty times a day
throughout twenty years of his service on the line.  Darsie drew herself up with a feeling
of affront.  He was a rude, ill-mannered man, who ought to be taught how to speak to ladies
in distress.  She would ask her father to complain to the railway!

What were porters paid for but to make themselves useful to passengers? She drew herself up
in haughty fashion, then as suddenly collapsed as her eye rested on her dusty boots and blackened,
bloodstained skirt. Ridiculous to act the grand lady with such handicaps as these!  She drew
a sharp breath, and said in a voice of childlike appeal--

"I'm left behind!  My friends have gone on.  It's very awkward!"

"Are ye?" asked the porter indifferently.  He took one hand out of his pocket and pointed woodenly
to the right.  "Waiting-room first door.  Ye can sit there!"

Of all the callous, cold-blooded--!  Darsie turned with a swing and marched forward into the
bleak little cell which had the audacity to call itself a first-class waiting-room, seated
herself on a leather- covered bench which seemed just the most inhospitable thing in the way
of furniture which the mind of man could conceive, and gave herself up to thought.  Never,
never so long as she lived would she ever again leave home without some money in her pocket!
How in the name of all that was mysterious could she contrive to possess herself of eightpence
within the next hour?  "Our old woman" would lend it with pleasure, but Darsie shrank from
the idea of the darkening country road with the dread of the town-dweller who in imagination
sees a tramp lurking behind every bush.  No, this first and most obvious suggestion must be
put on one side, and even if she could have humbled herself to beg from the porter, Darsie
felt an absolute conviction that he would refuse.  At the farther side of the station there
stretched a small straggling village.  Surely somehow in that village--!  With a sudden inspiration
Darsie leaped to her feet and approached the porter once more.  Into her mind had darted the
remembrance of the manner in which poor people in books possessed themselves of money in critical
moments of their history.

"Porter, will you please tell me the way to the nearest pawnshop?"

"P-p--!"  Now, indeed, if she had wished to rouse the porter to animation, she had succeeded
beyond her wildest dreams!  He spun round, and gaped at her with a stupefaction of surprise.
"Pawnshop, did ye say?  P-awn!  What do you want with a pawnshop, a slip of a girl like you?"

"That's my business!" returned Darsie loftily.  Since he had been so unsympathetic and rude,
she was certainly not going to satisfy his curiosity.  Her dear little watch would provide
her with money, and somehow--she didn't understand why--pawnbrokers gave things back after
paying for them, in the most amiable and engaging of fashions.

"That's my business!  If you would kindly direct me--"

"We haven't got no pawnshop," said the porter gruffly.  He stared at her slowly up and down,
down and up, appeared to awake to a suspicious interest, and opined gruffly, "You'd better
go 'ome!"

"Just what I'm trying to do," sighed poor Darsie to herself.  She turned and went slowly back
to her leather seat, and a second disconsolate review of the situation.  In time to come this
experience would rank as an adventure, and became an oft-told tale.  She would chill her listeners
with hints of The Tramp, evoke shrieks of laughter at her imitation of the porter.  Darsie
realised the fact, but for the moment it left her cold.  Summer evenings have a trick of turning
chill and damp after the sun is set, and the vault-like waiting-room was dreary enough to damp
the highest spirits.  How was she going to obtain that eightpence for a ticket?

The station clock struck nine; the porter took a turn along the platform and peered curiously
through the dusty window; a luggage train rattled slowly past, an express whizzed by with thunderous
din.  The station clock struck the quarter, and still the problem was as far as ever from solution.

"Well," sighed Darsie miserably, "I must just wait.  I'm perished with cold already.  In two
more hours I shall be frozen.  Rheumatic fever, I suppose, or galloping decline.  It will settle
Aunt Maria, that's one good thing! but it's hard all the same, in the flower of my youth! 
To think of all that a human creature can suffer for the sake of a miserable eightpence!"

She got up stiffly and pressed her face against the pane.  People were beginning to assemble
for the nine-ten.  An old man with a satchel of tools, two old women with baskets.  "The poor
are always generous to the poor.  Suppose I ask them?  Twopence three farthings each would
not kill them!"  But when one is not used to begging, it is extraordinary how difficult it
is to begin.  Darsie tried to think of the words in which she would proffer her request, and
blushed in discomfort.  No! she could not.  Of the two disagreeables it really seemed easier
to shiver two hours, and retain one's pride intact, and then, suddenly, the door of the waiting-room
opened with a bang, and Dan's heavy figure stood on the threshold!  The cry of delight, of
breathless incredulity with which Darsie leaped to her feet, must have been heard to the end
of the platform.  She rushed forward, clutched his arm, and hugged it fast in the rapture of
relief.

"Oh, Dan--you angel--you angel!  Have you dropped down straight from the skies?"

"Not I!  Nothing so easy.  Scorched along bad roads on a rickety machine.  Would you be kind
enough to let go my arm and stop shrieking! You'll have the whole village here in a moment.
So you're all right, I see!  Sitting quietly here, after scaring us half out of our wits--"

"I think I'm the one to be scared!  You were all ready enough to go on, and leave me stranded
by myself.  I've gone through a martyrdom. Dan! tell me, when did you miss me first?"

Dan gave an expressive grimace.  He looked hot and dusty, and thankful to sit down on the leather
bench.

"Well, it was too much of a scrimmage to think of anything for the first few miles, but things
have a way of printing themselves on one's brain, and when I did begin to think, there seemed
something missing!  I remembered Vie's face--the colour of a beetroot, and Clemence limping
in the rear.  I remembered John and Russell hauling up Hannah by her arms, and the two mothers
were safely in their carriage--I'd made sure of that, but--I couldn't remember a thing about
you!  Then I asked Vie, and she said you were a long way behind, and I began to guess what
had happened.  At the first stop I did a rush round, and--there you weren't! So of course I
came back."

"But how--how?  There was no train.  Did you cycle?  Where did you get your machine?"

"Borrowed him from the stationmaster, and left my watch in exchange, in case I never went back.
Jolly good exchange for him, too.  It's the worst machine I ever rode, and that's saying a
good deal.  I told your mother I'd bring you back all right, and persuaded her to go home.
What on earth possessed you to be such a muff?"

Darsie tossed her head, gratitude giving place to wounded pride.

"Muff, indeed!  You don't know what you are talking about, or you wouldn't be so unkind.  I
ran like the rest, but I fell--caught my foot on something, and fell on my face.  I believe
I fainted."  There was an irrepressible note of pride in her voice as she made this last statement,
for fainting, being unknown in the healthy Garnett family, was regarded as a most interesting
and aristocratic accomplishment.  "I do believe I fainted, for for several minutes I didn't
know where I was. And I hurt myself, too; look at my hand!"

Dan looked and whistled.

"Skinned it properly, haven't you!  Reminds me of the days of my youth. Better sponge it clean
with your handkerchief and some of that water. And when you did remember, the train had gone--."

"Yes--and not another until after ten, and not a halfpenny in my pocket to buy a ticket, and
no one but a callous wretch of a porter to consult. Oh, Dan, I was wretched--I'll bless you
all my life for coming back like this!"

"Rot!" said Dan briskly.  "I was the only man.  Couldn't do anything else.  I say, you know,
it was your doing that I came to this blessed old picnic at all, and you have let me in for
a day!  Eleven to eleven before we've done with it--twelve solid hours!  I've had about as
much picnic as I want for the rest of my natural life."

"I'm sorry.  I thought it would be so nice.  I'm sorry I bothered you, Dan."  Darsie was tired
and cold, in a condition of physical depression which made her peculiarly sensitive to a slighting
mood.  She leaned her head against the ugly wall, and shut her lids over her smarting eyes.
Her cheeks were white.  Her lips quivered like a wearied child's, but she made a charming picture
all the same, her inherent picturesqueness showing itself even in this moment of collapse.

Dan's gaze grew first sympathetic, then thoughtful, as he looked.  In a dim, abstract way he
had been conscious that Darsie Garnett was what he would have described as "a pretty kid,"
but the charm of her personality had never appealed to him until this moment.  Now, as he looked
at the dark eyelashes resting on the white cheek, the droop of the curved red lips, the long,
slim throat that seemed to-night almost too frail to support the golden head, a feeling of
tenderness stirred at his heart. She was such a tiny scrap of a thing, and she had been tired
and frightened.  What a brute he was to be so gruff and ungracious!  "Buck up, Darsie!  Only
ten minutes more to wait.  I'll get you a cup of coffee when we arrive.  Your mother said we
were to take a cab, so all the worry's over and nothing but luxury ahead."

But Darsie, quick to note the soothing effect of her prostration, refused to "buck up," and
looked only more worn and pathetic than before.  The opportunity of lording it over Dan was
too precious to be neglected, so she blinked at him with languid eyes, and said faintly--

"I'll try, but I'm so very tired!  Do you think you could talk to me, Dan, and amuse me a little
bit?  That would pass the time.  Tell me about yourself, and all you are going to do when you
go up to Cambridge."

And to his own astonishment Dan found himself responding to her request. His was one of the
silent, reserved natures which find it difficult to speak of the subjects which lie nearest
to the heart, but even silent people have their moments of expansion, and when once Dan had
broken the ice, he found it unexpectedly easy to talk, with Darsie's big eyes fixed on his
in eloquent understanding.  She was a capital little listener; never interrupted at the wrong
moment, indulged in senseless ejaculations, or fidgety, irritating movement.  Nothing about
her moved, hardly even the blue eyes, so fixed and absorbed was their gaze, while Dan spoke
in low, rapid tones of the course of work which lay ahead, of the ambitions and dreams which
were to crown his efforts.  He must take first-class honours at Cambridge; nothing less than
first-class honours would do--honours so distinguished that he would have no difficulty in
obtaining a good post as schoolmaster to tide him over the next few years.  "Teaching's the
thing for me--for it leaves four months over for my own work, the real work of my life--scientific
study and research! That's the only thing worth living for from my point of view, and I shall
plump for that.  I don't care for money, I don't want to marry, I'd be content to make enough
to keep body and soul together, if I could only help on the cause of humanity.  I am not going
up to Cambridge for two years.  I can do better grinding quietly at home, and the governor
doesn't mind.  In fact, he is just as well pleased to think I shall have more time to run when
Hannah goes up to Newnham."

Darsie drew her breath sharply.

"Oh, Dan! how fortunate you are--how fortunate Hannah is, to be able to do as you like!  I
would give my ears to go up to Newnham, too, but father says it's impossible.  He can't afford
it with the boys' education getting more expensive every year.  I shall have to stay at home,
and turn into a miserable morning governess, teaching wretched little kids to read, and taking
them for a walk round the park.  Oh, oh! it makes me ill to think about it."

Dan laughed shortly.

"Excuse me! it makes you well.  You look quite like yourself again. I'll give you a bit of
advice if you like: don't believe that anything's impossible in this world, because it isn't!
Put the nursery governess idea out of your mind, and fire ahead for Newnham.  There's always
the chance of a scholarship, and even if that didn't come off, who can tell what may happen
in three years' time?  The way may clear in a dozen ways; it probably will clear, if you get
ready yourself.  There are precious few things one can't gain by steady slogging ahead."

Darsie looked at him with a kindling glance, her lips set, a spot of red showed on either cheek.

"Right!" she said briefly, and at that moment the train steamed into the station and the conference
was at an end.

CHAPTER SEVEN.

AUNT MARIA'S CHOICE.

Aunt Maria arrived on Tuesday night, bringing "my woman" in attendance. She was more like a
parrot than ever, for her face had grown narrower, her nose bigger, and the roundness of her
eyes was accentuated by gold- rimmed spectacles.  When a richly coloured Paisley shawl was
drawn tightly over her sloping shoulders the resemblance was positively startling to behold,
and the terrors of an eight-weeks visit loomed larger than ever before the minds of the Garnett
sisters.

The extraordinary thing was that Aunt Maria seemed to take no notice of the girls, whom, as
everybody was aware, she had come to inspect.  She talked to father, she talked to mother,
she cross-questioned the boys as to their progress at school and expressed regret that they
had not done better; she displayed an intelligent interest in the neighbours, the servants,
and the new dining-room rug, but for the three daughters of the house she had not a word, hardly,
it was believed, a glance.

In the presence of such utter indifference it was impossible to keep up the various roles which
each girl had privately practised with the view of concealing her charms and diverting Aunt
Maria's attention from herself.  Clemence had decided that rounded shoulders and a lurching
gait were defects which at seventeen threatened a painful permanence, and had therefore lurched
persistently throughout the first evening, since which time she had slowly but steadily recovered
her natural gait.

After long practice before the mirror Darsie had decided that an open mouth and falling under-jaw
could work marvels in the way of stupidity of expression, and had nerved herself to sit agape
for the period of forty-eight hours.  Lavender had decided to sulk.  "Every one hates sulks!
It would be better to live alone on a desert island than with a person who sulks.  I'll sulk,
and she won't be paid to have me!"  So one sister had sulked and the other gaped the whole
of that first long evening, and then, becoming increasingly freed from their fears, began to
smile secretly across the table, to nod and to nudge, to telegraph messages in the silent but
eloquent fashions to which members of a large family resort when visitors are present and talking
is not allowed.  And Aunt Maria munched her food, and wrapped the Paisley shawl more closely
round her shoulders, and cast not a glance to right or left!  A blissful possibility was broached
that she had changed her mind, and did not desire a visitor after all.

Wednesday and Thursday passed in increasing calm, but on Friday morning certain alarming symptoms
became visible.  Mrs Garnett came to breakfast with unmistakable signs of agitation upon her
face.  Mr Garnett was silent and distrait, hid behind his newspaper, and answered at random
the remarks of his family.  Late arrivals were allowed to pass without reproach, and Tim's
raids upon the marmalade received no further protest than a flickering smile.

The die was cast!  The girls knew it without a word; in a stupor of misery they sat, ears cocked,
hearts in their boots, waiting for a sign which should betray the truth, and decide once for
all the identity of the victim.

It came at last, towards the end of the meal, in the midst of a ghastly silence.

"Darsie, darling," said Mrs Garnett fondly, "won't you have some more coffee?"

"Darling!"  Never were Mrs Garnett's north-country lips known to use that term except under
stress of the most poignant emotion.  To be "darling" one was compelled to be very ill, very
sad, angelically repentant, or in an extremity of fear, and Darsie, who this morning was not
afflicted in any one of these three ways, realised in a flash the awful significance of the
term.  She sat white and silent, too dazed for speech, and to do them justice Clemence and
Lavender looked almost as perturbed as herself, relief on their own account being eclipsed
for the moment by a realisation of the loss which the holiday party was about to sustain. 
With a sudden and uninvited humility each sister mentally acknowledged that for the general
good of the family it would have been better had the choice fallen upon herself!

Darsie braced her feet against a leg of the table, and struggled with a lump in her throat.
Coffee? she never wanted to drink any more coffee so long as she lived!  The sight, the smell
of it would be for ever associated with this ghastly moment.  She turned big, woeful eyes on
her mother's face and stammered a breathless inquiry:

"Mother, you have something to say!  Please say it.  Don't break it to me, please; it's worse
to wait.  Say it bang out!"

"Oh, Darsie, darling; yes, darling, it is as you suppose!  Aunt Maria has chosen you.  She
wants you to start with her on Saturday morning, but if it's too soon--if you would rather
stay over Sunday, I will arrange..."

Darsie bit her lips in the desperate resolve not to cry, but to carry off the situation with
a high air.

"If I'm to go at all, I'd rather go at once, and get it over.  There's nothing to be gained
by delay.  `Better to die by sudden shock than perish piecemeal on the rock.'"

"But you will want to say goodbye to your friends, dear; you will have little arrangements
to make..."  Mrs Garnett was all nervousness and anxiety to appease, but after the manner of
victims Darsie felt a perverse satisfaction in rejecting overtures, even when by so doing she
doubly punished herself.

"I don't mean to say goodbye.  I don't wish to see any one before I go. I hate scenes."

"Well, well! just as you please, dear.  After all, it is for a very short time.  Eight weeks
will soon pass."

Silence.  Every youthful face at the table was set in an eloquent declaration that eight weeks
was an eternity, a waste, a desert of space.  Mr Garnett put down his newspaper and hurriedly
left the room. He had the usual male horror of scenes, and, moreover, Darsie was his special
pet, and his own nerves were on edge at the thought of the coming separation.  If the child
cried or appealed to him for protection, he would not like to say what he might do.  Flight
appeared to be his safest course, but Darsie felt a pang of disappointment and wounded love
at this desertion of her cause, and the smart did not help to improve her temper.

"Aunt Maria wishes to see you, dear, as soon as you have finished your breakfast," continued
Mrs Garnett, elaborately conciliatory.  "Father and I are very grateful to her for her interest
in you, but you know, dear, how we feel about losing you, how we sympathise with your disappointment!
We are convinced that in the end this chance will be for your benefit; but in the meantime
it is very hard.  We are sorry for you, dear."

"And I," declared Darsie coldly, "am sorry for Aunt Maria!"

She pushed back her chair and stalked out of the room, while her brothers and sisters stared
after her agape.  Along the narrow oil- clothed hall she went, up the steep, narrow staircase
to the little third-floor bedroom, the only place on earth which was her very own. There was
nothing luxurious about it, nothing of any intrinsic value or beauty, but in the eyes of its
occupant every separate article was a pearl of price.  All her treasures were here--her pictures,
her ornaments, her books, mementoes of journeyings, offerings of friends. It was a shrine,
a refuge from the cold outer world.  Alone in "my room" one lost the insignificance of a member
of a large family, and became a responsible human being face to face with personal trials and
responsibilities...

Eight weeks out of a life!  To the adult mind a sacrifice of so short a period may be a disappointment,
but can hardly be deemed a trial; to schoolgirl fifteen it may seem a catastrophe which clouds
the whole horizon.  To Darsie Garnett the change of plan was the first real sorrow of her life,
and these moments of reflection were full of a suffocating misery.  Anticipated joys rose before
her with intolerable distinctness. She saw her companions happily at play, and felt a stabbing
dart of jealousy.  Yes, they would forget all about her and feel no loss from her absence!
Clemence and Vie would enjoy their tete-a-tete, would be unwilling to admit a third into their
conferences at her return.  Dan would take them for boating and fishing expeditions.  Dan would
grow to like Clemence better than herself!  Darsie gave a little sob of misery at the thought.
She had no sentimental feelings as regards Dan, or any one else at this period of her life,
but as the one big boy, almost man, of her acquaintance Dan stood on a pedestal by himself
as a lofty and superior being, whose favour was one of the prizes of life.  That Dan should
become more intimate, more friendly with Clemence and Lavender than with herself was a possibility
fraught with dismay.

Darsie sobbed again, but her eyes were dry; she was angry, too angry to cry; her heart was
seething with rebellion.  Some one knocked at the door and received no answer, knocked again
and was curtly ordered to "go away"; then Mr Garnett's voice spoke, in gentle and conciliatory
tones--

"It's father!  Let me in, dear; I've just a minute..."

It was impossible to refuse such a request.  Darsie opened the door, and there he stood, tall
and thin, with the embarrassed boy look upon his face which always made him seem especially
near to his children.  It was the look he wore when they were in trouble and he essayed to
lecture and advise, and it seemed to say, "I've been there myself; I understand! Now it's my
part to play the heavy father, but I'm not nearly so much shocked as I pretend!"  To-day his
manner was frankly commiserating.

"Well, Kiddie, dear!  I was running off to town like a coward, but at the last moment I was
obliged to come up for a word.  It's hard lines for you, dear, and I want you to know that
it's hard lines for me, too! The country won't be half so jolly as if we'd all been together.
I'll miss you badly, little lass!"

"Don't!  I'll howl.  Don't make me howl!" pleaded Darsie hastily, the tight feeling about her
eyes and lips giving place to an alarming weepiness at the sound of the tender words.  "If
you really care, father, couldn't you--couldn't you possibly refuse?"

Mr Garnett shook his head.

"No!  That's settled.  We talked it over, mother and I, and agreed that it must be done.  It's
a duty, dear, and we can't shelve duties in this life.  I'm sorry for you in your disappointment,
and only wish I could help, but in this matter no one can help but yourself.  You can do a
lot if you try.  Shall I tell you, Darsie, how you could get over your regret, and turn your
visit to Arden into something far more agreeable than you can now imagine?"

Darsie cocked an eye at him, suspicious and hesitating.  He was going to preach!  She knew
the symptoms of old, and by way of counter-action put on her most dour and sullen expression.

"Um!"

"Very well, then, here it is!  Turn your back on the might-have-been, and try with all your
might to like what is!  Aunt Maria will, I know, be all that is kind and indulgent--in her
own way!  It won't be your way, however, and that's the rub.  If you begin your visit in a
spirit of irritation, I'm afraid you are going to have a pretty poor time, but if you try to
enjoy every little thing that comes along out of which enjoyment can be squeezed and to laugh
at the rest, to laugh instead of to cry--well, it's astonishing how the scene will change!
Do you think you could try?"

Darsie pouted, sulky and unconvinced.  "Were you resigned when you were fifteen?"

"No, my lassie!  I wasn't, indeed.  Very far from it, I'm sorry to say. But when one has travelled
on for many years and come many a cropper on the way one does long to show one's children the
short cuts!  That's one short cut.  Darsie; I wish you'd take it, and avoid the falls.  If
you can't have what you like, try to like what you have.  Expect good, not evil.  Say to yourself
every morning: `This is going to be a good day, a happy day, one of the happiest days of my
life,' and then you are half-way towards making it so.  Poor little Kiddie! it sounds hard,
but try it--try it--and occasionally, just for a change, forget that you are Darsie Garnett
for five minutes or so at a time, and pretend instead that you are Maria Hayes!  Pretend that
you are old and lonely and ailing in health, and that there's a young girl staying with you
from whom you are hoping to enjoy some brightness and variety!  Eh?  The other morning in church
you were beside me when we were singing `Fight the good fight!'  You sang it heartily, Darsie;
I enjoyed your singing.--I thought you looked as if you really meant the words.  Well, here's
the battlefield for you, dear!  Are you going to play coward?  I don't believe it.  I think
better of my girl!"

He laid his hand on her shoulder with a caressing touch.  Darsie wriggled and screwed up her
little nose in eloquent grimace, but when the hand crept up to her chin she lifted her face
for the farewell kiss, and even volunteered an extra one on her own account on the dear, thin
cheek.

Mr Garnett smiled contentedly to himself as he descended the staircase. Darsie had made no
promises, but he was satisfied that his words had not been in vain.  And Darsie, left alone
in her room, fell instinctively to repeating the words of the grand old hymn--

  "Run the straight race through God's good grace,
  Lift up thine eyes, and seek His Face..."

A little sob punctuated the lines.  To the blind eyes of earth the straight race appeared so
very very crooked!

CHAPTER EIGHT.

FIRST DAYS.

Darsie left home on the following Thursday, and in company with Aunt Maria and "my woman" took
train for Arden, in Buckinghamshire.  The journey was a nightmare, for Lady Hayes disliked
travelling, and was in a condition of nervousness, which made her acutely susceptible to the
doings of her companions.  Within an hour of starting Darsie had been admonished not to sit
facing the engine because of the draught, not to look out of the window in case she got a cinder
in her eye, not to read in case she strained her eyes, not to rub her fingers on the pane,
not to cross her knees because it was unladylike, not to shout, not to mumble, not to say "What?"
not to yawn without putting her finger over her mouth, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.

Being called to account so frequently was an exhausting process, and Darsie felt a thrill of
joy at the announcement of lunch.  A meal in a train would be a novel and exciting experience
which would go far towards making up for the dullness of the preceding hour, but alas! Aunt
Maria refused with scorn to partake of food, cooked goodness knew how, by goodness knew whom,
and had supplied herself with a few Plasmon biscuits, the which she handed round with the information
that they contained more nourishment than ounces of beefsteak.  They were very dull and very
dry, however, and Darsie managed to get a crumb down the wrong way, and coughed continuously
for the next hour in a tickling, aggravating manner, while Aunt Maria reiterated, "Really,
my dear! Most unpleasant!" and seemed to consider herself personally aggrieved.

When Arden was reached the position improved, for stationmaster and porters alike flew to hover
round the great lady of the neighbourhood, and Darsie sunned herself in the novel consciousness
of importance. Outside the station a cart was waiting for luggage, and a large, old- fashioned
barouche with two fat brown horses, and with two brown- liveried servants upon the box.  The
village children bobbed curtsies as the carriage bowled through the village street, and Darsie
smiled benignly and bent her yellow head in gracious acknowledgment.  As niece and guest of
the Lady of the Towers, these greetings were surely partly intended for herself.  She felt
an exhilarating glow of complacence, and determined to describe the scene to Vie Vernon on
the earliest possible opportunity.

The Towers was a large, very ugly, stucco house, surrounded by a beautiful rolling park.  Inside,
the rooms were huge and square, and one and all characterised by a depressing pitch of orderliness,
which made it almost impossible to believe that they could be used as ordinary human habitations!

Darsie was escorted to a bedroom with ponderous mahogany furniture, so complete a contrast
from her own shabby, cheery little den that the sight of it added the final touch to her depression.
She refreshed herself by a long splash in hot water, brushed out her tangled mane, put on her
Sunday dress, and descended in state to partake of dinner, which was served an hour earlier
than usual in consideration of the travellers' hunger and fatigue.

Despite her weariness and nervous exhaustion, Lady Hayes had made what appeared to Darsie's
unsophisticated eyes a magnificent toilette for the meal, and she eyed the Sunday frock with
a criticism which was anything but approving.  "But it's the best I've got, except the party
one, and I can't wear that for one old lady," said Darsie to herself as she followed meekly
behind the moire antique train, and seated herself at the end of the dining-table.  Two men-servants
stood at attention--two! one for each diner, solemn, immovable-looking creatures who seemed
to move on wheels and who kept their eyes glued upon every mouthful you ate, ready to pounce
upon your plate and nip it swiftly and noiselessly away.  They were stricken with dumbness
also, if you were to trust the evidence of your senses, but had certainly ears, and could drink
in every word you said.

For the rest, it might be soothing to one's pride to live in a big country house, but it was
certainly abnormally dull.  The day's programme never varied by a hair's breadth, and Aunt
Maria, though kind, possessed the failing of all others most trying to the youthful mind. She
fussed!  She fussed about clothes, she fussed about food, she fussed about draughts, she fussed
about manners, deportment, speech, the way you sat down, the way you got up, the way you laughed,
yawned, sneezed, crossed the room, and did your hair.  From morning to night, "My dear, don't!"
or "My dear, do!" rang in Darsie's ears, till she was almost beside herself with irritation.

Honestly and laboriously she tried to practise her father's advice: to put the thought of the
seaside party aside, make the most of the good points of her own position, and "fight the good
fight," but the effort seemed to exhaust her physically, as well as mentally, until by the
end of the day she looked white and drooping, pathetically unlike her natural glowing self.
Aunt Maria noticed the change, and fussed about that, too, but with an underlying tenderness
that was upsetting to the girl's strained nerves.

"You look very tired to-night, my dear!  Are you not well?  Is there anything the matter?"

"Quite well, thank you.  Only--lonely!" replied Darsie, with a plaintive accent on that last
word which brought Lady Hayes's glance upon her in quick inquiry--

"Lonely!  But, my dear, you haven't been a minute alone all day long."

"No," agreed Darsie meekly, and said no more, but the little monosyllable was more eloquent
than any disclaimer.  Lady Hayes flushed, and knitted her brows in thought.

"I must ask some young people to meet you.  I have some nice young friends living about a mile
away.  They are visiting at present, but will soon be home.  I will write.  Naturally you miss
the young society."

She was so kind, so considerate, that it seemed mean to feel bored and impatient; but, oh dear,
how long the days did seem, how dull and monotonous the morning drive, the afternoon needlework,
the evening game of patience or bezique.

The climax came one rainy afternoon when the ordinary two-hours drive could not take place,
and the hostess and her young guest had spent most of the day together in the library.  Now
it is trying for an old lady as well as for a young one to be deprived of the usual exercise,
and if Darsie's impatience and rebelliousness of spirit were more acute than usual, Lady Hayes
was also more nervous and exacting.  In this instance the weight of the old lady's displeasure
seemed to fall upon Darsie's unfortunate coiffure.  Whatever turn the conversation might take,
it returned with relentless certainty to "Your hair, my dear!  When I was young, young girls
wore their hair neatly braided.  I intensely dislike all this purring and elaboration.  You
would look a different girl if you brushed it smoothly."

"I should," agreed Darsie coolly.  "I should look a sight.  My pompadour is the best pompadour
in my class.  The girls all say so. They ask me how I do it.  I've taught lots of them to do
their own."

"I'm sorry to hear it.  Time enough when you come out to wear `pompadours,' as you call them.
And your bow!  Ridiculous size!  If it were neat and small--"

"They wear them twice as big in America.  And in France.  Sash ribbons! I would, too, if I
could afford.  It's the fashion, Aunt Maria.  Every one wears them big."

"Surely that is all the more reason why a sensible girl should set a good example by being
neat and moderate herself!  I don't approve of hair being allowed to grow long at your age,
but if it is long, it ought certainly to be kept in bounds.  Yours is hanging all over your
shoulders at this moment.  Most untidy!  I am speaking for your own good."

There was a moment's chilly silence, then Darsie asked in a tone of extraordinary politeness--

"Just exactly how would you do my hair, Aunt Maria, if you were in my place to-day?"

Lady Hayes straightened herself briskly.  "I should brush it," she said emphatically.  "It
is naturally curly, no doubt, but I cannot believe that a good brushing would not reduce it
to order!  I should damp it and brush it well, and then tie it back so that it would not hang
loose over your shoulders like a mane.  It would be pleasant to see what a difference it would
make.  A neat head is one of the things which every young gentlewoman should strive to possess."

Darsie folded her needlework, put it neatly away in her bag, and, rising from her seat, marched
slowly from the room.  It was nearing the hour for tea, when she usually went upstairs to wash
and tidy-up generally, so that there was nothing unusual in her departure; it was only when
she was safe inside her room that the extraordinary nature of to-day's preparations was revealed.

She took off the lace collar and pretty bead necklace which gave an air of lightness to her
plain dark dress, wrapped a dressing-jacket round her shoulders, and dipped her head deep into
a basin of water.  Then with a comb the wet hair was parted accurately in the centre, and brushed
to the ears till it had the air of being painted rather than real, so smooth and plastered
was the effect.  The ends, plaited with merciless tightness, were looped together with a fragment
of a broken shoelace, so tightly that from the front no sign of their presence could be suspected.
When all was finished and the dressing-jacket thrown aside the effect was positively startling
to behold.  It did not seem possible to believe that this prim, demure damsel could be the
same brilliant-looking creature who had entered the room but ten minutes before, and Darsie
herself was half-shocked, half-triumphant at the completeness of the transformation.

"'Spose I had a fever and lost my hair!  How simply awful!" she said to herself in terror.
"If they could see me at home, they'd never call me pretty again.  I think even Aunt Maria
will jump!"

She skipped with delight at the possibility, and the gesture seemed so singularly out of keeping
with her appearance that she laughed again, restored to good temper by the delightful experience
of taking part in a prank once more.

Ten minutes later, accurately at the moment when the tea equipage would be in course of arrangement
in the drawing-room, Darsie composed her face into a "prunes and prism" decorum, and slipped
noiselessly into the room.

To a certain extent all was as she had expected.  Mason stood majestically over the tea-table;
James, his satellite, approached with a tray of cakes and sandwiches; Aunt Maria sat waiting
in her high-backed chair--so far all was just as she had planned; what she was all unprepared
for, however, was the presence of three youthful visitors, two girls and a youth, who sat facing
the door, staring at her in stunned dismay.

The Percivals!  By all that was ill-timed and embarrassing, the Percivals themselves, returned
from their visit, choosing a wet afternoon to drive over and pay their respects to Lady Hayes's
young guest!  Sheer horror of the situation took away Darsie's breath; she stood stock still
in the middle of the floor, felt her lips gape apart, the crimson rush to her face, saw in
a mental flash a vision of the country bumpkin she must appear--just for a moment, then Aunt
Maria's voice said, in even, equable tones--

"Ah, here she is!  Darsie, these are my young friends of whom I have spoken.  I am pleased
that you should become acquainted.  My niece, Darsie Garnett.  Noreen, Ida, and Ralph Percival...
Now we will have tea!"

The voice, the manner, were absolutely normal.  Was it possible that she had not seen?  Darsie
shot a quick glance at the old lady's face, met an unconcerned smile, and for the first time
in the history of their acquaintance felt a thrill of admiration.  Splendid to have such self-
control, to show no sign of surprise or irritation!  She shook hands awkwardly with the three
visitors, and sat down on the nearest chair.

"So awfully pleased to meet you!" cried Noreen gushingly.  She was a smart-looking girl of
sixteen, with brown eyes and a deeply dimpled chin.  Darsie knew exactly what she was thinking--understood
that the gushing manner had been adopted to disguise dismayed disappointment in the aspect
of a possible companion.  Ralph was quite old--eighteen at least, with well-cut features, thin
lips, and small grey eyes, a dandy wearing a fancy waistcoat and resplendent white spats. 
His whole aspect breathed a loud, "I told you so!  You would drag me with you.  Told you how
it would be.  Lady Hayes's grand-niece!  What could you expect?" Ida was bubbling over with
curiosity.  What a fine story she would have to tell to the family party on her return!

Conversation would have dragged pitifully if it had not been for Aunt Maria's efforts, for
the visitors seemed smitten with dumbness, and beneath no the fire of their glances Darsie's
embarrassment increased rather than diminished.  She had no spirit left; a succession of monosyllables
and an occasional "Oh, really!" made up the sum of her contributions to the conversation. 
It must have been a strong sense of duty which nerved Noreen Percival to offer the invitation
which presumably was the object of her visit.

"We want to know if you will come to lunch with us on Thursday, and stay for the afternoon?
If it's fine, we can have some tennis.  We will drive you back after tea."

Darsie hesitated, but apparently the decision was not to be left to her. Aunt Maria accepted
with a gracious acknowledgment of Mrs Percival's kindness, and in answer to a scowl from Ralph
his sisters rose and made a hasty adieu.

"We came in the governess cart.  The pony gets restless--mustn't keep him waiting.  Thank you
so much!  Goodbye!"

They were gone; the outer door was shut behind them.  Darsie, standing by the tea-table, caught
a glimpse of her own reflection in a mirror at the opposite end of the room, a stiff, Dutch-doll
of a figure, with plastered hair, crimson cheeks, and plain frock.  She glanced at Aunt Maria
reseating herself in her high-backed chair, and taking up the inevitable knitting.  Now for
it! now for the lecture!  Well, after all, she had in only done what had been suggested, a
trifle more perhaps than had been suggested, but that was erring on the right side, not the
wrong.  Besides, if a naughty impulse to annoy and humiliate Aunt Maria had really existed,
in the end she had been a thousand times more humiliated herself.  And now, if you please,
she was to be scolded and lectured into the bargain!

But Aunt Maria neither lectured nor scolded.  All through that next hour when pride kept Darsie
chained to her place, the older lady talked in her most natural manner, and even smiled at
her companion across the patience-board without a flicker of expression to betray that the
figure confronting her was in any way different from the one which she was accustomed to see.

Once more admiration vanquished irritation, and Darsie roused herself to join in the problem
of "building," and ended in actually feeling a dawning of interest in what had hitherto appeared
the dreariest of problems.  When seven o'clock struck, and the old lady closed the board, and
said, in her natural, every-day voice, "And now we must dress for dinner!"  Darsie walked slowly
across the room, hesitated, and finally retraced her steps and knelt down on a footstool by
Lady Hayes' side.

"Aunt Maria--please!  I should like to thank you!"

"Thank me, my dear.  For what?"

"For--for saying nothing!  For not crowing over me as you might have done!"

The flushed, upturned face was very sweet--all the sweeter perhaps for the plastered hair,
which gave to it so quaint and old-world an air. Lady Hayes laid a wrinkled hand on the girl's
shoulder; her eyes twinkled humorously through her spectacles.

"No, I won't crow, my dear!  That would be ungenerous.  Circumstances have been pretty hard
on you already.  This--this little exhibition was not intended for an audience, but for my
own private edification.  It was unfortunate that the Percivals should have chosen such a moment
for their first call.  I was sorry for your discomfiture."

"You oughtn't to have been!  I meant to be naughty.  Oh, you've scored--scored all the way.
I apologise in dust and ashes, but please-- if you will be very noble--never speak of it again!"

She reached the door once more, was about to make a bolt for the staircase, when Lady Hayes's
voice called to her to return--

"Darsie?"

"Yes!"

"Come here, child!"

The thin hand was held out to meet hers, the kind old eyes looked wonderfully soft and tender.

"I think it is only fair to tell you that ... in your own language, you have scored also! ...
Oblige me by doing your hair in your ordinary fashion for the future!"

"Oh, Aunt Maria, you duck!" cried Darsie, and for the first time in her life flung her arms
voluntarily around the old lady's neck and gave her a sounding kiss.

CHAPTER NINE.

THE PERCIVALS.

It was really rather fun dressing for the visit to the Percivals on Thursday; trying to make
oneself look one's very best, and imagining their surprise at the transformation!  Aunt Maria,
too, seemed quite to enter into the spirit of the thing, inquired anxiously which dress, and
gave special instructions that it should be ironed afresh, so that it might appear at its freshest
and best.

"My woman" had evidently been instructed to take the young guest's wardrobe under her care,
since new ribbons and frilling now appeared with engaging frequency, giving quite an air to
half-worn garments. Darsie in a blue muslin dress, with a white straw hat wreathed with daisies,
and her golden locks floating past her waist, made a charming picture of youth and happiness
as she sat in the old barouche, and when the hall was reached Aunt Maria cast a keen glance
around the grounds, transparently eager to discover the young people and share in the fun of
the meeting.

Ralph was nowhere to be seen, that was not to be wondered at under the circumstances, but the
two girls were on duty on the tennis-lawn in front of the house, ready to come forward and
welcome their guest immediately upon her arrival.

The blank gapes of bewilderment with which they witnessed the alighting of the radiant blue
and gold apparition afforded keen delight both to aunt and niece.  They were literally incapable
of speech, and even after Aunt Maria had driven away, coughing in the most suspicious manner
behind a raised hand, even then conversation was of the most jerky and spasmodic kind.  It
was amusing enough for a time, but for a whole afternoon it would certainly pall, and Darsie
did want to enjoy herself when she had a chance.  She decided that it was time to put matters
on a right footing, and looked smilingly to right and left, at her embarrassed, tongue-tied
companions.

"I think," said Darsie politely, "that I owe you an explanation!"

She explained, and Noreen and Ida pealed with laughter, and danced up and down on the gravel
path, and slid their hands through her arm, vowing undying friendship on the spot.

"How per-fectly killing!  I do love a girl who is up to pranks. What a prank!  How you must
have felt when you saw us sitting there! And Lady Hayes--what did she say?  Was she per-fectly
furious?"

"Aunt Maria behaved like an angel, a dignified angel!  I never liked her so much.  How did
you feel?  Tell me just exactly your sentiments when you saw me walking into that room?"

"I certainly did feel upset, because we had to ask you!  Mother said we must, and we asked
each other what on earth should we do with you all day long.  Ida did say that your eyes were
pretty.  She was the only one who stuck up for you at all!  I thought you looked too appalling
for words."

"What did your brother say?" asked Darsie with natural feminine curiosity, whereupon Noreen
answered with unabashed candour--

"He said you were `a rummy little frump,' and that he would take very good care to have an
engagement for to-day as many miles as possible away from home!"

"Did he, indeed!"  The colour rose in Darsie's cheeks.  "Well, I'm very glad he did.  I like
girls best, and I thought he looked conceited and proud.  My best friend has a big brother,
too, but he's not a bit like yours.  Rather shaggy, but so clever and kind!  He promised to
write to me while I was here, just because he knew I should be dull.  It's really an honour,
you know, for he is terrifically clever.  Every one says he will be Prime Minister one day.
He's going to Cambridge.  Your brother is, too, isn't he?  I shouldn't think they would be
at all in the same set!"

The Percival girls looked at each other and smiled.

"Poor old Ralph!  Isn't she blighting?  You don't know anything about him, you know.  It's
only because he called you a frump, but never mind, he has to be back to tea to look after
some work for father, and then he'll see!  If you are going to be friends with us, you mustn't
begin by disliking our brother.  He may be conceited, but he is certainly not `shaggy,' and
he is much nicer to his sisters than most big boys.  He thinks we are really nicer than other
girls."

Darsie regarded them critically.

"Well, I think you are!" she conceded graciously.  "Oh, how thankful I am that there is some
one young in the neighbourhood.  I was beginning to feel so painfully middle-aged.  Let's sit
down and talk.  Tell me about yourselves.  Do you go to school?  Which school?  Do you go in
for exams?  What subjects do you like best?"

Noreen laughed, and shook her head.

"We have a governess.  We are going for a year to a finishing school in Paris, but mother doesn't
approve of exams, for girls.  She wants us to be able to play, and sing, and draw, and speak
German and French, and she says that's enough.  We don't bother about Latin or mathematics
or any of those dull old things."

"They are not dull.  They're glorious.  I revel in them.  But you're rich, of course, and won't
have to work.  I shall have to earn money myself, so I want to pass all the exams.  I can."

The Percivals stared in solemn surprise.  The idea was so strange it took some time to digest.
All their friends were well off like themselves; really, when they came to think of it, they
had never met a prospective working girl before!  They regarded Darsie with a curiosity tinged
with compassion.

"Do you mean it--really?  Tell us about yourself?  Where do you live?"

"In Birchester, Craven Street, Sandon terrace--the corner house in Sandon Terrace."

"Craven Street.  Really!"  The girls were plainly shocked, but Ida rallied bravely, and said
in her most courteous air: "It must be so interesting to live in a street!  So much to see.
And have you very interesting people living across the road?"

"No.  Rather dull.  Husbands and wives, and one old bachelor with a leg--lame leg, I mean.
No one at all thrilling, but our friends--our best friends--live in a terrace at right angles
with ours.  We have great times with them.  I'll tell you about our latest craze."

Noreen and Ida sat breathlessly listening to the history of the telegraph, till it was time
to go into the house for lunch, when Darsie was introduced to Mrs Percival, a very smartly
dressed lady, who looked astonishingly young to be the mother of a grown-up family.  After
lunch the three girls attempted tennis, but gave it up in deference to the visitor's lack of
skill, visited stables and kennels and conservatory, and were again brought face to, face with
the different points of view existing between the town and the country dweller.

"Do all people who live in the country go and stare at their horses and dogs every day of their
lives?" demanded Darsie with an air of patient resignation, as Noreen and Ida patted, and whistled,
and rubbed the noses of their four-footed friends, fed them with dainty morsels, and pointed
out good points in technical terms which were as Greek in the listener's ears.  "Aunt Maria
goes every single day; it's a part of the regular programme, like knitting in the afternoon
and Patience at night. I get--so bored!"

The shocked looks which the Percival sisters turned upon her seemed ludicrously out of proportion
with the circumstances.

"Don't you--don't you love animals?"

"Certainly--in their place.  But I cannot see the interest in staring in through a stable door
at the same horses standing munching in the same stalls day after day.  It's no use pretending
that I can," declared Darsie obstinately.  "And the dogs make such a noise, and drag at your
clothes.  I'm always thankful to get away.  Let's go back to the garden and look at the flowers.
I could stare at flowers for ages.  It seems too glorious to be true to be able to pick as
many roses as you like. At home mother buys a sixpenny bunch on Saturday, and cuts the stalks
every day, and puts them into fresh water to make them last as long as possible, and we have
nasturtiums for the rest of the week.  I love the fruit and vegetable garden, too.  It's so
amusing to see how things grow!  Especially,"--she laughed mischievously, showing a whole nest
of baby dimples in one pink cheek, "I warn you frankly that this is a hint!--especially things
you can eat!"

Noreen and Ida chuckled sympathetically.

"Come along!  There is still a bed of late strawberries.  We'll take camp-stools from the summer-house,
and you shall sit and feast until you are tired, and we'll sit and watch you, and talk.  We
seem to have had strawberries at every meal for weeks past, and are quite tired of the sight,
so you can have undisturbed possession."

"And I," said Darsie with a sigh, "have never in my life had enough!  It will be quite an epoch
to go on eating until I want to stop.  That's the worst of a large family, the dainties divide
into such tiny shares!"

Ten minutes later the three girls had taken up their position in the kitchen garden in a spot
which to the town-bred girl seemed ideal for comfort and beauty.  The strawberry-bed ran along
the base of an old brick wall on which the branches of peach-trees stretched out in the formal
upward curves of great candelabra.  An old apple-tree curved obligingly over the gravel path
to form a protection from the sun, and it was the prettiest thing in the world to glance up
through the branches with their clusters of tiny green apples, and see the patches of blue
sky ahead.  Darsie sat stretching out her hand to pluck one big strawberry after another, an
expression of beatific contentment on her face.

"Yes--it's scrumptious to live in the country--in summer!  If it were always like this I'd
want to stay for ever, but it must be dreadfully dull in winter, when everything is dead and
still.  I shouldn't like it a bit."

"No!  No!" the Percival girls protested in chorus.  "It's beautiful always, and livelier than
ever, for there's the hunting.  Hunting is just the most delightful sport!  We hunt once a
week always, and often twice--the most exciting runs.  We are sorry, absolutely sorry when
spring comes to stop us."

"Oh, do you hunt!"  Darsie was quite quelled by the thought of such splendour.  In town it
was rare even to see a girl on horseback; a hunt was a thing which you read about, but never
expected to behold with your own eyes.  The knowledge that her new friends actually participated
in this lordly sport raised them to a pinnacle of importance.  She munched strawberries in
thoughtful silence for several moments before recovering enough spirit to enter another plea
in favour of town.

"Well, anyway--if you don't hunt, it must be dull.  And lonely! Aren't you scared to death
walking along dark lanes without a single lamppost?  I should live in terror of tramps and
burglars, and never dare to stir out of the house after three o'clock."

"No you wouldn't, if you were accustomed to it.  Our maids come home quite happily at ten o'clock
at night, but if they go to a city they are nervous in the brightly lit streets.  That's curious,
but it's true.  We used to leave doors and windows open all day long, and hardly trouble to
lock up at night, until a few months ago when we had a scare which made us more careful.  Till
then we trusted every one, and every one trusted us."

"A scare!"  Darsie pricked her ears, scenting an excitement.  "What scare?  Do tell me!  I
love gruesome stories.  What was it?  Thieves?"

Noreen nodded solemnly.

"Yes!  It's gruesome enough.  Simply horrid for us, for so many other people lost their--but
I'll tell you from the beginning.  It was the night of the Hunt Ball at Rakeham, and the house
was crammed with visitors.  We were allowed to sit up to see them all start.  They looked so
lovely--the men in their pink coats, and the ladies in their very best dresses and jewels.
Well, it was about half-past seven; the ladies had gone upstairs to dress about half an hour
before, when suddenly there was a great noise and clamour, and some one shouted `Fire!' and
pealed an alarm on the gong.  No one knew where it was, but you never heard such a hubbub and
excitement.  Doors opened all down the corridors, and the ladies rushed out in dressing-gowns
and dressing- jackets, with hair half done, or streaming down their backs, shrieking and questioning,
and clinging to one another, and rushing downstairs. The men were more sensible; they took
it quite calmly, and just set to work to put the fire out.  It was in a little room on the
second floor, and the strange thing was that it hadn't been used for months, and no one could
account for there being a fire there at all.  After a little time one of the men came out into
the corridor, and said: `There's something wrong about this--this is not the result of accident!
I don't like the look of it at all.'  Then he turned to the ladies, who were all huddled together,
gasping and questioning, with their maids and the other servants in the background, and said:
`Ladies!  I advise you to go back to your rooms as quickly as possible.  There is not the slightest
danger, but it might be just as well to look after your jewellery!'

"You should have heard them shriek!  They turned and rushed like rabbits, and the maids rushed
after them, shrieking too, but that was nothing to the noise two minutes after, when they got
back to their rooms and found their jewels gone!  They were laid out ready to be put on, on
the dressing-tables, and the alarm had been cleverly timed to give the ladies enough time to
get half dressed, but not enough to have put on their jewellery.  Only one out of all the party
had put on her necklace.  She was pleased!

"Well, they shrieked, and shrieked, and some of the men left the fire and came upstairs to
the rescue.  Captain Beverley was the smartest, and he just tore along the corridor to a dressing-room
over the billiard- room, and there was a man letting himself drop out of the window, and scrambling
over the billiard-room roof to the ground!  Captain Beverley gave the alarm, and the servants
rushed out to give chase.  It was very dark, and they could not tell how many men there were,
for they kept dodging in and out among the trees.  Some people said there were only two, and
some said they saw four, but only one was caught that night--an idle, loafing young fellow
who had been staying at the village inn for a few weeks, pretending to be a city clerk convalescing
after an illness. The worst of it was that he had only a few of the smaller things in his pockets,
none of the really big, valuable pieces."

"Goodness!"  Darsie's eyes sparkled with animation.  "That was an excitement.  I wish I'd been
here.  Go on!  What happened after that?"

"Oh, my dear, the most awful evening!  The visitors had all brought their very best things,
as the Hunt Ball is a great occasion, and they almost all cried, and one poor lady went into
hysterics.  Her father had been an ambassador and had all sorts of wonderful orders and things
which she had had made into brooches and pendants, and they could never be replaced, no matter
how much money she spent.  Dinner was the most weepy meal you can imagine, and only one or
two of the sensible ones went on to the ball.  The others stayed at home and moped, and mother
had to stay, too.  Poor dear! she had to keep calm, and comfort every one else, when she'd
lost all her own pet things.  There was one string of pearls which has been in our family for
generations, and each new owner adds a few more pearls, so that it gets longer and longer,
and more and more valuable.  It would have belonged to Ralph's wife some day.  He was so funny
about it, so disappointed!  He kept saying: `Poor little girl! it is rough luck!'  We said:
`Why pity her, when you haven't the least idea who she is?'  He said: `Why not, when I know
very well that I shall know some day!'"

Darsie smiled with politely concealed impatience.  She was not in the least interested in Ralph's
problematical wife, but she was devoured with anxiety to hear further particulars of the exciting
burglary.

"Well, well!  Go on!  You said they only caught one man that night. That means, I suppose--"

"Yes!"  Noreen sighed tragically.  "That was the saddest part of it. The next morning they
found another man lying just outside the walled garden.  He had scrambled up, holding on to
the fruit-trees, and had then jumped down and broken his leg, and he was not a stranger, but
one of our very own men--an under-gardener whom we had all liked so much. Father believed that
he had been bribed and led away by the man from London, and offered to let him off if he would
tell all he knew, how many thieves there had been, and give the names and descriptions of the
ones who had escaped, but he wouldn't.  Nothing would make him speak. We all tried in turns,
and then the Vicar came and was shut up with him for an age, but it was no use.  They say `there's
honour among thieves,' and it's true.  He wouldn't give the others away, so the two were sent
to prison together, and they are there still.  Father says they won't mind a few months' imprisonment,
for when they come out they will get their share of the money and be quite rich.  They'll probably
sail off for America or Australia and buy land, and live in luxury ever after. It is a shame!
Father and mother feel it awfully.  Such a dreadful thing to happen when you ask your friends
to stay!"

"Yes! it's a comfort to have nothing to lose.  Mother has one diamond ring, which she always
wears above the wedding one, and there's nothing else worth stealing in the house, except watches
and silver spoons, so that Aunt Maria need fear no qualms on account of her present visitor.
No one will set her house on fire on account of my jewels--a few glass beads and a gold safety-pin,
all told!  You see them before you now!" Darsie tossed her head and pointed towards her treasures
with an air of such radiant satisfaction that Noreen and Ida dropped the effort to be polite,
and pealed with delighted laughter.

"You are a funny girl!  You do amuse us.  It's so nice to have a new friend.  The girls near
here are so deadly dull.  You seem so full of spirit."

"Too full.  It runs away with me.  I act first and think afterwards. Not a good principle for
a working life," pronounced Miss Darsie sententiously as she searched among the green leaves
for a strawberry sufficiently large and red to suit her fastidious taste.  The Percivals watched
her with fascinated gaze.  An hour before they would have professed the most profound pity
for a girl who lived in a street, owned neither horse nor dog, and looked forward to earning
her own living, but it was with something more closely resembling envy that they now regarded
Darsie Garnett, weighted as she was with all these drawbacks. There was about her an air of
breeziness, of adventure, which shook them out of their self-complacence.  It no longer seemed
the all-important thing in life to belong to a county family, attend the hunt, and look forward
to a presentation at Court; they felt suddenly countrified and dull, restricted in aim and
interest.

It was while Darsie was still conversing in airy, discursive fashion, and her companions listening
with fascinated attention, that footsteps were heard approaching, and Ralph's tall figure appeared
at the end of the path.  He was evidently taking a short cut through the grounds, and as Darsie
was out of his line of vision, being planted well back among the strawberry plants, he saw
only his two sisters, and advanced to meet them with cheerful unconcern.

"Hulloa!  Here's luck!  Hasn't she come?"

"Oh, yes!  But it is luck all the same.  Look for yourself!" cried Noreen gleefully, pointing
with outstretched hand to where Darsie sat, a pale blue figure among a nest of greenery, her
little, flushed, laughing face tilted upward on the long white throat, her scattered locks
ashine in the sun.  With the air of a queen she extended finger-tips crimson with the strawberry
juice towards the newcomer, and with the air of a courtier Ralph Percival stooped to take them
in his own.

For a moment they stared full into each other's eyes, while the bewilderment on the young man's
face slowly gave place to recognition.

"Glad to see you again, Princess Goldenlocks!  Let me congratulate you on the breaking of the
spell.  Who was the kind fairy who set you free to appear among us in your rightful guise?"

He spoke like a book; he looked tall and handsome enough to be a prince himself.  Darsie forgave
him on the instant for his former lack of respect, and bent upon him her most dimpling smile.

"I freed myself.  I wove my own spell, and when I was tired of it I broke loose."

Ralph looked down at her with a slow, quizzical smile.

"You had better be careful!  Spells are awkward things to move about. They might alight, you
know, on some other shoulders, and not be so easily shaken off!"

His eyes, his voice, added point to the words.  It was the first, the very first compliment
which Darsie had ever received from masculine lips, and compared with the blunt criticisms
of Dan Vernon, she found it wonderfully stimulating.

"Come along, girls!" cried Ralph with a sudden return to a natural, boyish manner.  "There's
a whole hour yet before tea, and we can't sit here doing nothing.  Let's go down to the river
and punt.  Do you punt, Miss Garnett?  I'll teach you!  You look the sort of girl to be good
at sport.  You'll pick it up in no time."

The three girls rose obediently and followed Ralph's lead riverwards, while Noreen and Ida,
gesticulating and grimacing in the background, gave the visitor to understand that a great
honour had been bestowed upon her, and that she might consider herself fortunate in being the
recipient of an unusual mark of attention.

CHAPTER TEN.

A TREATY.

If there were innumerable good points in an acquaintance with the Percival family, there was
certainly the inevitable drawback, for on the days when she was alone with her great-aunt,
Darsie was rendered lonelier and more restless than before by the knowledge that a couple of
miles away were three agreeable young companions who would be only too pleased to include her
in their pastimes.  The different points of view held by youth and age were, as usual, painfully
in evidence.  Darsie considered that it would be desirable to meet the Percivals "every single
day"; Aunt Maria was glad that you had enjoyed yourself; was pleased that you should meet young
friends, and suggested a return invitation, "some day next week!" pending which far-off period
you were expected to be content with the usual routine of morning drive, afternoon needlework,
and evening patience.  Really--really--really, to have lived to that age, and to have no better
understanding!  Letters from the seaside did not tend to soothe the exile's discontent.  It
seemed callous of the girls to expatiate on the joys of bathing, fishing, and generally running
wild, to one who was practising a lady- like decorum in the society of an old lady over seventy
years of age, and although Dan kept his promise to the extent of a letter of two whole sheets,
he gave no hint of deploring Darsie's own absence.  It was in truth a dull, guide-booky epistle,
all about stupid "places of interest" in the neighbourhood, in which Darsie was frankly uninterested.
All the Roman remains in the world could not have counted at that moment against one little
word of friendly regret, but that word was not forthcoming, and the effect of the missive was
depressing, rather than the reverse. Mother's letters contained little news, but were unusually
loving-- wistfully, almost, as it were, apologetically loving!  The exile realised that in
moments of happy excitement, when brothers and sisters were forgetful of her existence, a shadow
would fall across mother's face, and she would murmur softly, "Poor little Darsie!"  Darsie's
own eyes filled at the pathos of the thought.  She was filled with commiseration for her own
hard plight...  Father's letters were bracing. No pity here; only encouragement and exhortation.
"Remember, my dear, a sacrifice grudgingly offered is no sacrifice at all.  What is worth doing,
is worth doing well.  I hope to hear that you are not only an agreeable, but also a cheerful
and cheering companion to your old aunt!"

Darsie's shoulders hitched impatiently.  "Oh!  Oh!  Sounds like a copy- book.  I could make
headlines, too!  Easy to talk when you're not tried.  Can't put an old head on young shoulders.
Callous youth, and crabbed age..."

Not that Aunt Maria was really crabbed.  Irritable perhaps, peculiar certainly, finicky and
old-fashioned to a degree, yet with a certain bedrock kindliness of nature which forbade the
use of so hard a term as crabbed.  Since the date of the hair episode Darsie's admiration for
Lady Hayes's dignified self-control had been steadily on the increase. She even admitted to
her secret self that in time to come--far, far-off time to come,--she would like to become
like Aunt Maria in this respect and cast aside her own impetuous, storm-tossed ways.  At seventy
one ought to be calm and slow to wrath, but at fifteen!  Who could expect a poor little flapper
of fifteen to be anything but fire and flame!

Wet days were the great trial--those drizzling, chilly days which have a disagreeable habit
of intruding into our English summers.  Darsie, shivering in a washing dress, "occupying herself
quietly with her needlework" in the big grim morning-room, was in her most prickly and rebellious
of moods.

"Hateful to have such weather in summer!  My fingers are so cold I can hardly work."

"It is certainly very chill."

"Aunt Maria, couldn't we have a fire?  It would be something cheerful to look at!"

"My dear!"  Lady Hayes was apparently transfixed with amazement.  "A fire!  You forget, surely,
the month!  The month of August.  We never begin fires until the first of October."

"You'd be much more comfortable if you did."

There being no controverting the truth of this statement, Lady Hayes made no reply.  But after
the lapse of a few minutes she volunteered a suggestion.

"There is a grey Shetland shawl folded up under the sofa rug.  You had better put it over your
shoulders, since you feel so cold."

"I?"  Darsie gave an impatient laugh.  "Fancy me wrapped up in a Shetland shawl!  I'd sooner
freeze."

Lady Hayes dropped her eyelids and tightened her lips.  Her manner pointed out more eloquently
than words the fact that her guest was wanting in respect, but as hostess it was her duty to
consider the comfort of her guest, so presently she rang the bell and gave instructions that
a cup of hot cocoa should be served at eleven o'clock instead of the usual glass of milk. 
She herself was never guilty of the enormity of eating between meals, so that the listener
knew perfectly well for whose benefit the order was given, but being at once cold, lonely,
and cross, her heart was hardened, and she spoke no word.

Between that time and the appearance of James with the tray Aunt Maria made three successive
attempts to open new topics of conversation, which were each time checkmated by monosyllabic
replies.  There was a tone of relief in her voice, as of one hailing a much-needed assistance,
as she said briskly--

"Now, my dear, here is your cocoa!  Drink it while it is hot.  It will warm you up."

"Thank you, I don't drink cocoa.  It makes me sick."

There was a moment's silence.  James stood at attention, tray in hand. Lady Hayes tightened
her lips, and the little red lines on her cheeks turned a curious bluish shade.  Then she cleared
her throat, and said in her most courteous tones--

"I am sorry.  Would you kindly tell James what you would like instead. Tea--coffee--soup? 
A warm drink would be better than milk this morning."

"Nothing, thank you."

"Nothing, James!  You may go."

James departed.  Aunt Maria went on with her knitting, the click-click of the needles sounding
startlingly distinct in the silent room.  Darsie sat shamed and miserable, now that her little
ebullition of spleen was over, acutely conscious of the rudeness of her behaviour.  For five
minutes by the clock the silence lasted; but in penitence, as in fault, there was no patience
in Darsie's nature, and at the end of the five minutes the needlework was thrown on the floor,
and with a quick light movement she was on her knees by Lady Hayes's side.

"Aunt Maria, forgive me.  I'm a pig!"

"Excuse me, my dear, you are mistaken.  You are a young gentlewoman who has failed to behave
as such."

"Oh, Aunt Maria, don't, don't be proper!" pleaded Darsie, half- laughing, half in tears.  "I
am a pig, and I behaved as much, and you're a duchess and a queen, and I can't imagine how
you put up with me at all.  I wonder you don't turn me out of doors, neck and crop!"

Lady Hayes put down her knitting and rested her right hand lightly on the girl's head, but
she did not smile; her face looked very grave and sad.

"Indeed, Darsie, my dear," she said slowly, "that is just what I am thinking of doing.  Not
`neck and crop'--that's an exaggerated manner of speaking, but, during the last few days I
have been coming to the conclusion that I made a mistake in separating you from your family.
I thought too much of my own interests, and not enough of yours."  She smiled, a strained,
pathetic little smile.  "I think I hardly realised how young you were!  One forgets.  The years
pass by; one falls deeper and deeper into one's own ways, one's own habits, and becomes unconscious
of different views, different outlooks.  It was a selfish act to take a young thing away from
her companions on the eve of a summer holiday.  I realise it now, my dear; rather late in the
day, perhaps, but not too late!  I will arrange that you join your family at the sea before
the end of the week."

Darsie gasped, and sat back on her heels, breathless with surprise and dismay.  Yes! dismay;
extraordinary though it might appear, no spark of joy or expectation lightened the shocked
confusion of her mind.  We can never succeed in turning back the wheels of time so as to take
up a position as it would have been if the disturbing element had not occurred.  The holiday
visit to the seaside would have been joy untold if Aunt Maria had never appeared and given
her unwelcome invitation, but now!--now a return to Seaview would be in the character of a
truant carrying within her heart the consciousness of failure and defeat.  In the moment's
silence which followed Aunt Maria's startling announcement the words of advice and exhortation
spoken by her father passed one by one through Darsie's brain.

"If you cannot have what you like, try to like what you have...  Put yourself now and then
in your aunt's place.--A sacrifice grudgingly performed is no sacrifice at all...  What is
worth doing at all, is worth doing well."

Each word condemned her afresh; she stood as judge before the tribunal of her own conscience,
and the verdict was in every case the same. Guilty!  She had not tried; she had not imagined;
everything that she had done had been done with a grudge; the effort, the forbearance, the
courtesy, had been all on the other side...  There fell upon her a panic of shame and fear,
a wild longing to begin again, and retrieve her mistakes.  She couldn't, she could not be sent
away and leave Aunt Maria uncheered, unhelped, harassed rather than helped, as the result of
her visit.

"Oh, Aunt Maria," she cried breathlessly, "give me another chance! Don't, don't send me away!
I'm sorry, I'm ashamed, I've behaved horribly, but, I want to stay.  Give me another chance,
and let me begin again!  Honestly, truly, I'll be good, I'll do all that you want..."

Lady Hayes stared at her earnestly.  There was no mistaking the sincerity of the eager voice,
the wide, eloquent eyes, but the poor lady was plainly puzzled as to what had wrought so speedy
a change of front. With her usual deliberation she waited for several moments before replying,
studying the girl's face with serious eyes.

"My dear, don't imagine that I am thinking of sending you back in disgrace.  Not at all.  I
will take all responsibility upon myself, and explain to your parents that I have come to the
conclusion that it would be a mistake to prolong your visit.  It has been very dull for you
alone with an old woman, and I am sure that though you have not always succeeded, you have
at least had the intention of making yourself pleasant and agreeable."

"No!"  Darsie shook her bright head in vigorous denial.  "I haven't!  I can be fifty times
nicer than that, when I really try.  Let me stay, Aunt Maria, and you'll see...  It's quite
true that I was cross at first.  I hated giving up the holiday with the Vernons, and there
seemed nothing to do; but I've changed my mind.  I didn't know you, you see, and now I do,
and I--I would like you to be pleased with me before I go!  Please, please, Aunt Maria, let
me stay!"

"Certainly, my dear, I shall be most pleased."  Lady Hayes still wore a somewhat puzzled expression,
but she was undoubtedly gratified by the girl's appeal, and Darsie bent forward and kissed
her cheek with the feeling of one who has narrowly escaped a great danger.

"That's settled, and now we are going to live happily ever after!"

"Ah, my dear, I am afraid that is too much to expect!  I have no amusements to offer you to
relieve the dullness.  My health obliges me to live a quiet life, and I have grown to dread
change.  Of course, there are plenty of books to read--improving, well-written books, very
different from the rubbish published to-day.  If you would like to have a little reading aloud,
or I could give you lessons in knitting and crochet..."

Darsie laughed, a bright, audacious laugh.

"I wouldn't like it a bit!  I've another plan to suggest, fifty times nicer and more exciting.
Suppose,"--she leaned her arms on the old lady's knee and looked gaily into her spectacled
eyes--"suppose, instead of your trying to make me old with you, I tried, for a time, to make
you young with me?  Eh?  What do you think?  Wouldn't it be far more fun!"

"You ridiculous child!"  But Lady Hayes laughed in her turn, and showed no signs of dismay.
"That would be too difficult an undertaking even for you.  To make me young again, ah, Darsie!
that's an impossible task."

"Not a whit more impossible than to make me old!" cried Darsie quickly. "Suppose we took turns?
That would be only fair.  Your day first, when you would read aloud dull books with the blinds
half down; and then my day, when I'd read funny ones, with the blinds drawn up to the top,
and the sun streaming into the room; your day, when we drove the ordinary round and came back
to lunch; and mine when we went away over the hill and took a picnic basket and drew up at
the side of the road, and ate it, and got milk from a cottage and drank it out of cups without
saucers!  Your night, when we played Patience; and mine when I showed you tricks and danced
figure dances as we do at school.  I'm sure you'd like to see me dance the Highland fling!
Now--now--promise!  I know you'll promise.  I can see the softening in your eye!"

"Ridiculous child!" protested Lady Hayes once more, but Darsie was right; there was certainly
a softening in her eye which bespoke a disposition to yield.  In truth it was not so much of
Darsie as of herself that Lady Hayes was thinking at that moment, for as the young voice spoke
the old heart quickened with quite an agreeable sense of expectation.  Years since she had
read a "funny book," years since she had partaken of a picnic meal; years--many, many years
since she had looked on while a young girl danced!  Radical changes and innovations in the
routine of life she could not face at this late day, but Darsie's girlish plan attempted nothing
so ambitious.  Let the child have her way!  It would be interesting, undoubtedly interesting,
to see how she behaved.

So Darsie gained her point, and for the next week she and her hostess played in turn the part
of Mistress of the Ceremonies, to their mutual benefit and satisfaction.

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

A DANGEROUS ADVENTURE.

One of the privileges gained by the alliance between aunt and niece was that the former veto
against bicycle riding was withdrawn, and that Darsie was set free each afternoon for an hour's
enjoyment of this favourite exercise.

In deference to Lady Hayes's nervousness and sense of responsibility the high-road was avoided
as much as possible, and detours taken through quiet lanes, where traffic was reduced to a
minimum; and it was along one of these lanes that Darsie rode joyously some five or six days
after her visit to the Percivals, bearing in her pocket a return invitation to her new friends.
She had been longing to meet them again, had keenly regretted a domestic upset which had delayed
the invitation until now, but all the same the last days had passed wonderfully quickly and
happily.  Afire with resolution to "begin again" and show herself in the light of a cheerful
and cheering companion, she had neglected no opportunity to make herself agreeable to her hostess,
while Aunt Maria in return had been sweetly considerate, and on occasions quite startling in
her divination of hidden wishes and desires.  The eyes behind the gold-rimmed spectacles would
rest upon the girl's face with an intent scrutiny which seemed to have the power to draw free
confidences, till to her own surprise Darsie found herself discussing fluently the all- important
subject of her own future, and setting forth her hopes and fears in relation to a scholarship
for Newnham.  On this, as on almost every topic which came up for discussion, the old woman
and the girl held almost diametrically opposite opinions, but so far Darsie had contrived to
subdue her impatience, and to listen with some appearance of humility to Lady Hayes's somewhat
sententious criticism.

"But I wonder if it can last!" she was asking herself doubtfully this afternoon, as she pedalled
through the sweet-smelling lanes.  "I wonder if I can possibly go on being so unnaturally good
without falling ill from the strain!  How I hope the Percival girls will be at home!  If I
can let off steam for an hour, and make as much noise as I like, it will be no end of a relief,
and help me to last out without a relapse.  I'd hate to have a relapse and spoil it all, just
when I'm trying so hard; and she's really a dear, quite an old dear!  I love to please her.
Whenever I begin to feel scratchy I must make an excuse and get over to the Percivals for an
hour to be soothed down.  I do hope they are in to-day!"

But alas! the butler announced "Not at home," in reply to Darsie's inquiry, then, seeing the
blank disappointment on the young face, he added graciously: "The young ladies are out for
a ride.  They will probably be home about four o'clock.  Will you not step in and wait?"

Darsie brightened instantly.  Four o'clock, and she had promised to be back by five.  Yes,
she could enjoy half an hour's talk, and still leave ample time for the ride home, but as it
was now barely three o'clock she did not feel tempted by the prospect of sitting cooped in
the house for so long a time.

"Thank you," she said briskly.  "I should like to wait, but I think I'll stay in the garden.
Perhaps you would be kind enough to tell them when they return."

The man bowed and withdrew, and Darsie strolled away in the direction of the rose pergola,
the beauty of which had attracted her so greatly on her first visit.  She wandered up and down
the archways, sniffed at the fragrance of the late blooms which still remained, indulged in
a little of the sentimental poetising which seems to flow so readily when one is "alone among
the roses," began to grow bored, wandered aimlessly ahead, grew very bored indeed, and, consulting
her watch, was dismayed to find that only fifteen minutes had passed away.  Fifteen! and there
still remained forty-five before her companions were likely to arrive!  What could she find
to do to while away a whole forty-five minutes?  As a matter of prudence Darsie put the suggestion
of the fruit garden resolutely aside.  It would not be safe to put herself in proximity with
those tempting strawberries, since on a second visit to a house one was, unfortunately, not
on sufficiently intimate terms to take without being asked.

She was contemplating getting on her bicycle and taking a short ride round the lanes, when
the brilliant alternative of the river darted into her mind.  Of course, the river!  Nothing
could be more delightful.  She set off at a trot, taking in her inexperience many wrong turnings,
but arriving at last at the river, or rather the peaceful backwater of the river which bordered
the Percival grounds.  To Darsie's mind the spot was the most picturesque on the whole estate,
and a good many people could be found ready to agree with her in the conclusion; for the backwater
though narrow was bordered by banks rich in reeds and bulrushes, while a hundred yards or so
below the miniature jetty a pair of ancient wooden gates spanned the stream, through whose
decaying beams could be seen fascinating peeps of a baby waterfall, and a great moss- covered
wheel which proclaimed the former use of the old grey building of which it was a part.  In
olden times this quiet backwater had been a busy centre of industry, but the modern inventions
of machinery had left it hopelessly in the rear.  The mill-owner had been ruined long ago,
and the mill-house, with its great panelled rooms, was given up to the occupancy of the rats,
while the disused wheel was green with moss, and the wooden gateway threatened every day to
fall free of its hinges.

The young Percivals could not remember the day when the mill had been working, but from a personal
point of view they deeply regretted its cessation, for, deprived of the healthy action of the
wheel, the little backwater was becoming every year more choked with weeds, until at some points
it was difficult to navigate the punt.

At long intervals strange men came to investigate the mill and its machinery, and the Percivals
were cheered by rumours of a certain "let," but as one rumour after another died away without
bringing any tangible result their hopes had reached a vanishing point, and they paid little
attention to the occasional stirring into life of the dreamy backwater.

Darsie walked to the end of the jetty, stepped lightly into the punt, and sank down on the
soft red cushions.  One might not eat one's neighbour's fruit, but one might sit in his punt,
and arrange his cushions to fit comfily into the crick in one's back, without infringing the
laws of hospitality.  Darsie poked and wriggled, and finally lay at ease, deliciously comfortable,
blinking up at the sunshine overhead, and congratulating herself on having hit on the spot
of all others in which to spend the time of waiting.  She could lie here for hours without
feeling bored; it was the most deliciously lazy, drowsy sensation she had ever experienced.
At the end of five minutes, however, the drowsy feeling threatened to become altogether too
pronounced, and having no wish either to be discovered fast asleep, or to sleep on undiscovered
till past the hour for her return.  Darsie sat up hurriedly and began to look around for fresh
distractions.

At the very first glimpse the usual temptation for idle hands stared her in the face, for there
on the jetty lay, not only the long punt-pole, but also the dainty little paddle which she
had handled under Ralph's instructions the week before.  It had been quite easy, ridiculously
easy; the girls declared that she took to it as to the manner born; she had paddled the whole
boatload for quite a considerable distance. Naturally it would be much easier and lighter to
paddle for oneself alone.  The chain holding the punt to the jetty could easily be slipped
from its ring; there was not, could not be, any danger in paddling peacefully along a quiet
little backwater.  Of course, prudent people would say--Aunt Maria would say-- But then if
you waited until all the prudent people on earth approved of all that you did, you might sit
with your hands crossed in your lap for the rest of your life!

Darsie tossed her head with the defiant little jerk which meant that she was going to do it,
and she didn't care, and the consequences could look after themselves.  In another moment the
punt was free from the chain, and was being paddled slowly down the stream.  Really, she told
herself, the solid old craft was as safe as a house; so big, so heavily built was it that it
seemed curious, not that its progress should be slow but that it should move at all in response
to the efforts of one inexperienced girl!  Glancing over, Darsie could see the weeds rising
from the bed of the stream, sometimes so high that they caught in the paddle as it worked and
greatly impeded its force; still she was steadily moving along, and, fired with ambition, her
eyes fell on a willow-tree standing out from the bank some hundred yards ahead, and she determined
to persevere until the point should be reached.  To declare she had paddled "some way"--"quite
a long way"--would probably be discounted to mean but a few yards by the Percival sisters,
but "to the willow and back" was a definite feat which could not be gainsaid.  So Darsie worked
and strained till her arms ached and her cheeks flamed, till the punt, moving heavily through
the weeds, ran at last beneath the willow branches and found a natural anchorage.

Well, it was good to lie back against the cushions and rest one's weary arms and back!  Darsie
peeped at her watch, saw with relief that she had still a good quarter of an hour to spare,
and abandoned herself to a lazy enjoyment of the situation.

And then the inevitable happened, for the soothing influence of the shaded light lulled the
tired senses into deeper and deeper unconsciousness, until at last the fringed eyelids ceased
to flicker, and remained peacefully closed, and, like a happy, tired child, Darsie rested her
cheek on her hand and slept.

Subsequent comparisons proved that her doze might have lasted for half an hour or more, before
a sudden movement of the punt roused her with a start.  She sat up, blinked sleepily around,
and discovered to her surprise that the punt had moved from its anchorage and drifted into
the centre of the stream.  It had appeared so safely moored against the tree that she was puzzled
to understand how this had come about, but as the movement had roused her from sleep she was
glad that it had occurred, and, seating herself steadily, lifted her paddle to work her way
back to the jetty.

As she settled herself, however, Darsie's attention was arrested by the manner in which the
banks seemed to be slipping past; she turned her head over her shoulder, and discovered that
in the minute which had elapsed since she had awakened from sleep the willow-tree had been
left several yards behind.  Some mysterious change seemed to have passed over the surface of
the still, almost stagnant, waters; they were flowing as with a tide, the rippling movement
stirring the weedy banks.  Darsie used her paddle automatically, but its puny force seemed
superfluous, for the punt was moving of itself, quickly and still more quickly, swinging broadside
to the stream in defiance of her efforts to keep it straight.  Darsie ceased to struggle and
leaned forward on the paddle to consider the situation.  Then, for the first time, she became
aware that the former stillness of the stream was replaced by a harsh, continuous noise, which
seemed momentarily to increase in volume.  What could it be?  She stared around with puzzled
eyes, but there was no hint of alarm in her bewilderment.  A child of the city, she was inured
to sudden and inexplicable noises; it was only when the punt swung heavily round a bend that
she realised the seriousness of her position.  The mill was working!  One of the infrequent
experimental trials of which she had heard was even now in process, the great moss-covered
wheel was revolving creakily on its axle, waking the sleeping river into life, and the heavy
punt was bearing down, more and more rapidly towards the crazy wooden gates!

In a second all that she had heard on this subject from the Percival family flashed through
Darsie's brain.  The gates were frail, so eaten by long action of water, that at the impact
of a heavy mass they would almost certainly burst apart, and then--what would happen to the
punt and to its hapless occupant?  Would she be hurled against a broken boulder, wedged helplessly
beneath the debris, or rushed forward into the swirl of the millpond itself?  Whatever happened
it seemed certain that danger--and serious danger--loomed close at hand, unless she could succeed
in overmastering the current and landing the punt safely at the little jetty.  At this moment
it was not fear but rather an exhilarating tingling of excitement of which Darsie was most
aware.  Here was an adventure--a full-fledged adventure, such as came but seldom to break the
monotony of life!

For the sake of her future credit she must bear herself bravely, be swift, resourceful, energetic.
With all her strength she plied the paddle to and fro, but for all the effect produced she
might as well have sat still upon her cushions.  It would have required an experienced hand
to guide the heavy punt through the sweeping current, and under Darsie's unpractised strokes
it twisted, and turned, and revolved in aimless and disconcerting circles...  No matter! she
was determined to win; by hook or by crook she must make the left side of the stream and gain
an anchorage.  The jetty or the millpond--that was the alternative, and it was one to put power
into the arm and give staying power to the laboured breath!  The moments were flying now, the
banks seemed to be flitting past more quickly than ever.  Darsie tried to convert the paddle
into an oar, with which to steer more vigorously for the desired bank; then came a breathless
second of suspense, followed by a sickening realisation of failure.  The punt had swept past
the jetty at a distance just wide enough to make it impossible to grasp the chain, and was
now bearing straight for the wooden gates!

CHAPTER TWELVE.

DARSIE'S SUGGESTION.

With the passing of the jetty, fear awoke for the first time in Darsie's breast--the fear which
arises when the possibility of action is over and nothing remains but to sit still and await
the end.  In one moment of time an incredible number of thoughts flashed through her brain;
she thought of her father and mother, of their grief and pain at the knowledge of her untimely
end; she thought of her brothers and sisters, of Vie Vernon and plain Hannah, and Dan; she
saw a vision of them all garbed in black, sitting round the study fire, enlarging upon her
own virtues and graces; she thought of Aunt Maria and her responsibility; she saw a vision
of herself, cold and still, being dragged out of the millpond, with her hair floating like
seaweed behind her, and at the thought a wild rebellion rose in her heart, a determination
to fight on, to fight to the end for her precious life!  One or two large trees stood out from
the bank.

Darsie leaped to her feet and, raising the paddle so high above her head that it caught against
the branches, strove to delay the progress of the punt.  The result was to upset her own equilibrium,
and as she fell forward she screamed loudly, a shrill, penetrating scream of panic and appeal.

With almost startling quickness the answer came, in the form of an answering cry, close at
hand.  Round the corner of the next clump of bushes dashed the figure of Ralph Percival, bareheaded,
eager-faced, and, thank Heaven! unhesitating in action.  Not for one fraction of a second did
he hesitate, but with the assurance of one who knows every inch of the land rushed forward
waist-deep into the river; halted there, and called out a sharp command--

"Your paddle!  Stretch out your paddle towards me!  Hold hard!  Lean out as far as you can!"

Darsie fell on her knees, and, leaning forward to the utmost extent of her body, held out the
paddle as directed.  There was a moment of sickening suspense, then came a halt, a jerk that
seemed to pull her arms half out of the sockets, and the punt swung heavily towards the shore.
The danger was over; she was helped on to the bank, where she collapsed in a little heap, while
Ralph worked the punt slowly along to the jetty and fastened it to its chain.

The short breathing space had allowed Darsie to recover her self- possession, to master the
overpowering temptation to cry, and to swallow the lump in her throat sufficiently to be able
to say in a weak little voice--

"You've saved my life!"

"You've spoiled my trousers!" retorted Ralph in a matter-of-fact manner calculated to put an
instant check on sentimentality.  He sat down on the bank, unfastened his mud-soaked gaiters,
and threw them on one side. "The river's beastly dirty, and the mud sticks like the Dickens.
A new suit, too!  It will never look the same again."

"I'm sorry."

"So you ought to be.  Things are bad enough as they are, but...  How on earth did you come
to be careering about alone in that punt?"

"I was waiting to see your sisters.  I wandered down here, and thought I'd just sit in it for
a rest, then I thought I could just paddle up and down.  I managed quite well going up the
stream; I got as far as the willow!"  Even at that moment a faint note of pride crept into
Darsie's voice.  "We grounded there, and I--I must have fallen asleep, I suppose, and that
hateful old mill must needs choose the opportunity to begin working at that very moment...
Just my luck!"

Ralph pursed his lips in eloquent comment.

"If it comes to that, I think you have had a fair amount of luck in another way!  I heard the
noise of the mill and came down to look on. If I hadn't been there, you'd have been pretty
considerably in Queer Street by this time.  Nice thing it would have been for us to discover
your drowned body in the millpond, and have had to tell your aunt!"

"I thought of that," agreed Darsie meekly.  "It was one of my dying thoughts.  Don't scold
me, please, for I feel so shaky, and you wouldn't like it if I cried.  It was my own fault,
and I got what I deserved.  I wasn't a bit frightened till I missed the jetty, but that one
moment was like a hundred years.  Did my yell sound very awful?"

"Pretty middling blood-curdling!" replied Ralph, smiling.  "Good thing it did.  Gave me a bit
of a shock, I can tell you, to see the old punt dashing down to the gates, with you sitting
huddled up in the bottom, with your hair hanging wild, and your face the colour of chalk. 
You looked like a young Medusa."

"Sounds attractive, I must say!  Medusa froze other people's blood, not her own," declared
Darsie, tilting her chin with a little air of offence, at which her companion laughed triumphantly.

"Oh, you're better; you're coming round again all right!  I was afraid you were going to faint.
I don't mind telling you that you were jolly plucky.  Most girls would have started screaming
miles before, but you held on like a Briton.  How do the arms feel now?  Rather rusty at the
hinges, I expect.  The stiffness will probably spread to the back by to- morrow, but it'll
come all right in time.  It is a pretty good weight, that punt, and I had to pull for all I
was worth...  Don't you think you'd better come up to the house and have some tea?"

"Yes, please.  And you can change your clothes, too.  I should feel so miserable if you caught
cold."

"No fear of that.  I'm used to splashing in and out of the water half a dozen times a day.
You need have no anxiety about me."

"But--the trousers?"

"Oh, bother the trousers!  I piled that on a bit, just to prevent you from getting sentimental.
They're all right!"  Ralph paused a moment, then, "I say!" he cried anxiously, "is this going
to get you into trouble with the aunt?  Need you say anything about it, do you think? I'll
swear to secrecy, if you say the word, and not a soul need know."

Darsie debated the point thoughtfully while the two walked side by side along the gravelled
paths, and finally arrived at a conclusion.

"I think, on the whole, I'll tell!  Aunt Maria allowed me to go out alone as a great concession,
and it was mean to take advantage and run risks.  So upsetting for her if I were killed in
her house!  So I'm in honour bound to confess, and promise not to do it again."

"You might do something else just as bad!  Probably she'll withdraw her permission and keep
you under her thumb as she did those first weeks."

"She may; but I don't think she will!  I think she will appreciate my confidence," said Darsie,
with a grandiloquent air, at which her companion whistled softly, his face twitching with amusement.
He was much more natural and boyish in his manner than on either of the previous occasions
on which Darsie had met him, and the agitation of the last few minutes seemed to have carried
them in a bound past all the formalities of early acquaintance.

"Right you are!" he said briskly.  "I like a straight girl.  But if you don't mind we won't
speak of it before the mater.  She's a bit nervous, and would be always imagining that the
girls were going to have the same experience.  You might warn Lady Hayes not to speak of it
either.  We'll keep it a secret between us."

"Just as you like!  I believe," said Darsie shrewdly, "that you're afraid of being praised
and fussed over, as you would be if people knew that you had saved my life!  Men hate a fuss,
but you can't escape my gratitude.  I didn't want to die.  It came over me with a sort of horror--the
thought of leaving the flowers, and the trees, and the blue sky, and all the people I love.
Have you ever been so nearly dead to know how it feels?"

"Once--when I had enteric at school.  It was a near squeak at the crisis."

"And how did you feel?  What did you think?"

"I didn't care a whit one way or another.  I wanted to have the pillow turned.  That seemed
a hundred times more important than life or death; I was too ill to think...  Well, thank goodness,
you are not dead!  I hope you'll live for many years to be a pride and glory to--er--er--the
ranks of women blue-stockings!"

Darsie looked at him sharply.

"The girls have been telling you of my ambitions!  Mean of them!  They might have known you'd
scoff.  All boys do, but I fail to see why if a girl has brains she should not use them as
well as a man."

"The inference being--"

"Certainly!  I'm unusually clever for my years!" returned Darsie proudly, whereupon they simultaneously
burst into a peal of laughter.

"Well, you goaded me to it!"  Darsie declared in self-vindication.  "I can't stand it when
boys are superior.  Why must they sneer and jeer because a girl wants to go in for the same
training as themselves, especially when she has to make her own living afterwards?  In our
two cases it's more important for me than for you, for you will be a rich landowner, and I
shall be a poor school marm.  You ought to be kind and sympathetic, and do all you can to cheer
me on, instead of being lofty and blighting."

Ralph Percival looked down at her with his handsome, quizzical eyes--

"I don't mind betting that you'll never be a school marm!" he said calmly; and at that very
moment, round a bend of the path, the two girls came suddenly into view, trotting briskly towards
the river.  They waved their hands, and tore down upon the visitor in lively welcome.

"There you are!  This is nice.  Bates said you were in the garden, so we just flew and changed,
and rushed off in pursuit.  So glad you had Ralph to amuse you.  The mill's working!  We guessed
you'd be there looking on..."

"There's nothing to see but the old wheel creaking round.  Tea is far more to the point.  I'm
dying for some, and I'm sure--er--Miss--er-- Garnett is, too!  She's had a tiring afternoon."

"Er--Miss--er--Garnett's name is Darsie.  You can always call a girl by her Christian name
till her hair's up," said Darsie quickly, and Ralph immediately availed himself of the permission.

"All right, Darsie.  It's a jolly little name.  Much easier to say."

Rather to Darsie's disappointment tea was served in the drawing-room in formal, grown-up fashion,
Mrs Percival presiding over the little table, with its shining silver and fine old-world china.
There were hot, brown little scones, crisp buttered toast, iced cakes, thick cream, and other
indigestible luxuries, which came as an agreeable change from Lady Hayes's careful dietary,
and Darsie was acutely conscious of the beauty and elegance of the room.  How small and poky
and drab the home drawing- room would appear in comparison!  How different the outlook on another
row of red-brick houses, from the sweep of green lawns, and the avenue of great beech-trees
seen through the four long French windows which broke the side of this long, low room!

How different her own life promised to be from those of the two girls by her side--the girls
who had just returned from a ride on their own horses over their own land! ...  They would
never need to worry about money; their role in life for the next few years would consist in
being pretty and agreeable, wearing charming frocks, visiting at friends' houses, travelling
in summer, hunting in winter, and, finally, making suitable Carriages, settling down as mistresses
of other luxurious houses, and living happily ever after!

She herself would study and cram for examination after examination; go through agonies of suspense
waiting for results, and as she passed or failed, obtain a good or second-rate appointment
in a suburban school. Henceforth work, work, work--teaching by day, correcting exercises by
night, in a deserted schoolroom, with three months' holiday a year spent at home among brothers
and sisters whose interests had necessarily drifted apart from her own!  As the years passed
by she would become staid and prim; schoolmistressy manner; the girls would speak of her by
derisive nicknames...

A knifelike pang of envy pierced Darsie's heart; she dropped the dainty morsel of cake on to
her plate with a feeling of actual physical nausea; for the moment her old ambitions lost their
savour, and appeared grey and dead; she was pierced with an overpowering pity for her own hard lot.

The sensation was, perhaps, as much physical as mental, for no one can pass through a moment
of acute mental tension without suffering from a corresponding nervous collapse, but being
too young and inexperienced to realise as much, Darsie mentally heaped ashes on her head, and
shed tears over her blighted life.  The signs of her emotion were noticeable, not only in an
unusual silence but in whitening cheeks, which brought upon her the quick attention of her friends.

"Aren't you feeling quite well, dear?"  Mrs Percival asked kindly. "You look pale.  Would you
like to lie down?"

"Darsie, you are green!  What's the matter?  You were all right a moment ago."

"I'm all right now.  Please, please, take no notice.  I'm perfectly all right."

Noreen was beginning to protest again, when Ralph called her sharply to order--

"That's enough, Nora!  Awfully bad form to fuss.  Talk about something else.  What about that
garden-party you were discussing?  I thought you wanted to ask suggestions."

Instantly both sisters were sparkling with excitement and animation.

"Oh, yes, yes.  Of course!  We must ask Darsie.  She has such lovely ideas.  Darsie, we are
going to have a garden-party.  The invitations are going out to-morrow.  Hundreds of people
are coming--mother's friends, our friends, everybody's friends, every bowing acquaintance for
miles around.  The question of the hour is--What shall we do?  Garden- parties are such monotonous
occasions, always the same over and over again--people sitting about in their best clothes,
eating ices and fruit, listening to a band, and quizzing each other's best clothes.  We want
to hit on a brilliant novelty.  What shall it be?"

Darsie mused, her face lighting with pleasure and anticipation.

"I know nothing about garden-parties.  There aren't any in town.  What have you done before?"

"Tennis, croquet, clock-golf, ping-pong, archery, yeomanry sports, blue bands, red bands, black
and yellow bands, glee-singers, Punch and Judy," Ida counted off one item after another on
the ringers of her left hand. "And now we seem to have come to the end of our resources.  We
can't think of anything else.  Do, like a darling, give us an idea!"

The darling deliberated once more, head on one side, lips pursed, eyes on the ceiling, while
the Percival family looked on, and exchanged furtive glances of admiration.  She was pretty!
prettier by far than ordinary pretty people, by reason of some picturesque and piquant quality
more readily felt than denned.  It didn't seem to matter one bit that her nose turned up, and
that her mouth was several sizes too large. "If you described me on paper, I'd sound far nicer,
but I look a wur-r- rm beside her!" sighed Noreen mentally, just as Darsie lowered her eyes
to meet those of her hostess, and inquired gravely--

"How much may it cost?"

It was the question which accompanied every home plan, and on which hung a momentous importance,
but the Percivals appeared quite taken aback by the suggestion.  The girls stared, and their
mother smilingly waved it aside.

"Oh-h, I don't think we need trouble about that!  It's only once a year, and we must do the
thing well.  If you have a suggestion, dear, please let us have it!"

"I was thinking," said Darsie hesitatingly, "of a treasure hunt!"

Instantly all four hearers acclaimed the idea with such unanimity and fervour that the proposer
thereof was quite overpowered by the thanks lavished upon her.

"The very thing!  Why did we never think of it ourselves?  Every one will like it, and it will
keep them moving about, which is always the great problem to solve.  Presents, presents, lots
of presents, stowed away in odd corners..."

"We'll each take a certain number and hide them in our own pet corners when no one else is
in the garden.  We'll make the parcels up in green paper, so as to be less easy to find..."

"Every one must be told to bring them back to the lawn for a grand public opening, so that
the disappointed ones may join in the fun..."

"We may take part ourselves, mother?  We must take part!  Get lots and lots of presents, and
let us hunt with the rest!"

"Certainly, dears, certainly.  It is your party as much as mine; of course you must hunt. 
I'll run up to town and buy the presents at the stores.  You must help me to think of suitable
things.  Bags, purses, umbrellas, blotters, manicure-cases--"

"Boxes of French bonbons, belts, scarfs--"

"Cigarettes, brushes--"

"Nice little bits of jewellery--"

Suggestions poured in thick and fast, and Mrs Percival jotted them down on a little gold and
ivory tablet which hung by her side unperturbed by what seemed to Darsie the reckless extravagance
of their nature.  It was most exciting talking over the arrangements for the hunt; most agreeable
and soothing to be constantly referred to in the character of author and praised for cleverness
and originality.  Darsie entirely forgot the wave of depression which had threatened to upset
her composure a few minutes before, forgot for the time being the suspense and danger of the
earlier afternoon.

Some one else, it appeared, however, was more remindful, for when she prepared to depart the
dog-cart stood at the door, and Ralph announced in his most grand seigneur manner--

"We're going to drive you back, don't you know!  Too awfully fagging to bicycle on a hot afternoon.
Put on your hats, girls, and hurry up."

The girls obediently flew upstairs, and Darsie's protestation of "My bicycle!" was silenced
with a word.

"The stable-boy shall ride it over to-morrow morning.  You're a bit jumpy still and can't be
allowed to run any risks.  I mean to see you safely back in your aunt's charge."

Darsie scrambled up to her high seat and leaned back thereon with an agreeable sense of importance.

"I feel like a cat that's been stroked," she said to herself, smiling. "When you're one of
a large family you are not used to fussing.  It's most invigorating!  I'd like to go in for
a long course!"

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

THE TREASURE HUNT.

The invitations for the garden-party arrived in due course: one for Lady Hayes, another for
Miss Darsie Garnett, and in the corner of each, beside the name of a celebrated military band,
appeared the magic words "Treasure Hunt."  Darsie felt something of the proud interest of the
author who beholds in print the maiden effort of his brain, as she gazed upon those words,
and reflected that but for her own suggestion they would never have appeared.  Lady Hayes also
seemed to feel a reflected pride in her niece's ingenuity, which pride showed itself in a most
agreeable anxiety about the girl's toilette for the occasion.

After a survey of the few simple dresses which composed Darsie's wardrobe, it was pronounced
that nothing was suitable for garden-party wear, and a dressmaker was summoned from the country
town to take measurements for a dainty white dress and hat to match.  The dress was made to
reach right down to the ankles, in deference to Lady Hayes's ideas of propriety, and Darsie
felt prodigiously fine and grown-up as she peacocked about before the long glass of her bedroom
wardrobe on the day of the garden-party itself.  Never in her life before had she possessed
a gown made by an expert dressmaker, and the result was surprisingly flattering.  She expatiated
on the same with a candour startling to the audience of aunt and her maid.

"Don't I look s-weet?  So slim!  I'd no idea I was such a nice shape.  I don't know which looks
nicest, the frock on me or me in the frock! Aren't I tall?  Isn't it graceful when I stand
like this, and show the pleats?  The hat's a duck!  I must say I do look most scrumptiously nice!"

"My dear!"  Lady Hayes looked both shocked and alarmed.  "My dear, how can you?  I shall begin
to regret my purchases if they encourage a spirit of vanity.  I was always taught to allow
others to praise me and to keep silent myself."

"But you thought all the time, Aunt Maria, you couldn't help thinking, and it's worse to bottle
it up.  I'm always quite candid on the subject of my appearance," returned Darsie calmly. 
"On principle!  Why should you speak the truth on every other subject, and humbug about that?
When I've a plain fit I know it, and grovel accordingly, and when I'm nice I'm as pleased as
Punch.  I am nice to-day, thanks to you and Mason, and if other people admire me, why shouldn't
I admire myself?  I like to admire myself!  It's like the cocoa advertisements, `grateful and
comforting.'  Honest Ingin, Aunt Maria!  Didn't you admire yourself when you saw yourself in
the glass in that ducky grey bonnet?"

Evidently the question hit home, for Lady Hayes made a swift change of front.

"My dear, my dear, moderate your language!  Your expressions are unsuitable for a young gentlewoman.
You are growing up.  Try, I beg, to cultivate a more ladylike demeanour!"

Darsie made a little face at the charming reflection in the glass, the which Lady Hayes wisely
affected not to see, and presently aunt and niece were seated side by side in the big old barouche,
forming one of a concourse of vehicles which were converging together out of every cross road,
and turning in a seemingly endless string in the direction of the Hall.  Shut carriages, open
carriages, motors of different sizes and makes, dog-carts, pony carriages, governess carts--on
they came, one after another, stirring up the dust of the road till the air seemed full of
a powdery mist, through which unhappy pedestrians ploughed along in the shadow of the hedgerows,
their skirts held high in white-gloved hands.

Darsie thought it inhuman of her aunt not to fill the carriage to overflowing with these unfortunates,
but she made no attempt to do so, but sat up stiff and straight in her seat, a typical old
lady of the olden times, in her large bonnet, grey satin gown, and richly embroidered China
crape shawl.

"If you're not proud of yourself, I'm proud of you!" the girl declared, smoothing the satin
folds with an approving hand.  "You look just what you are, a dear old fairy godmother who
pretends to be proud and fierce, and is really a lump of kindness and generosity.  All the
other old ladies look dowds beside you."

"Don't flatter me, my dear.  I dislike it extremely," returned Lady Hayes with such an obvious
look of satisfaction the while that Darsie laughed in her face, and laughed unreproved.

Arrived at the Hall, the guests were escorted through the perilously slippery hall, on which
the mats seemed to turn into fresh pitfalls and slide beneath the feet; then through a side-door
on to a miniature lawn, in the centre of which stood Mrs Percival, sweetly smiling, and ejaculating
endlessly: "Delighted to see you!  So nice of you to come!" before passing the visitors on
to her husband and children who were ranged at discreet intervals along the sweep of the lawn.
The girls whispered dramatically to Darsie that for the time being they were tied, literally
tied by the heels, so she sat demurely by her aunt's side under the shade of a great beech-tree,
listened to the band, spilt drops of hot tea down the front of her white dress, buttered the
thumbs of her white kid gloves, and discovered the unwelcome but no doubt wholesome fact that
there were other girls present who appeared just as attractive, or even more so than herself!
Then the band began to play item number four on the programme, and Noreen Percival came forward
with a sigh of relief.

"At last I am free!  They've all come, or practically all, and we can't wait for the laggards.
The Hunt begins at three o'clock.  Mother thought we'd better have it early, as it would shake
them up and make them more lively and sociable.  You'll have to search by yourself, Darsie,
for as we have all done some of the hiding, it wouldn't be fair to us to go about in pairs.
There are piles of presents, and your eyes are so sharp that you are sure to find two or three.
You mustn't open them on the spot, but bring them up to the cedar lawn, where mother will be
waiting with the old fogies who are too old to run about, but who would like to see the fun
of opening.  I do hope I find the right thing!  There's the sweetest oxydised buckle with a
cairngorm in the centre that would be the making of my grey dress.  I have set my heart upon
it, but I haven't the least notion where it's stowed.  It may even have been among my own parcels,
and of course I can't go near those..."

"If I get it, we'll swop!  I wish I knew the garden better.  I don't know of one good hiding-place
except those I made myself...  Perhaps I shan't find anything at all."

"Oh, nonsense!  Keep your eyes open and poke about with your feet and hands, and you can't
go wrong.  The paper's just a shade lighter than the grass.  Remember!"

Noreen flew off again to move a chair for an old lady who wished to escape the rays of the
sun, and once more Darsie was left to her own resources.  By her side Lady Hayes was deep in
conversation with another old lady on the well-worn subject of a forthcoming agricultural show,
and the town-bred visitor, failing to take an intelligent interest in prize carrots and potatoes,
turned her attention to the group on the right, where Ralph Percival was making himself agreeable
to three fashionable-looking girls of about her own age.

He wore an immaculate grey suit and a Panama hat, and regarding him critically, Darsie felt
another shock of surprise at being compelled to admire a man!  Hitherto she had regarded the
race as useful, intelligent creatures, strictly utilitarian in looks, as in attire, but to-day
it was impossible to deny that the beauty was on Ralph's side more than on that of his companions.
The poise of the tall, slim figure was so graceful and easy that it was a pleasure to behold;
the perfect lines of aquiline nose, and dented chin, the little kink and wave which refused
to be banished from the clipped hair, the long narrow eyes, and well-shaped lips made up a
whole which was quite startlingly handsome and attractive.  The three girls looked back at
him with undisguised admiration and vied with one another in animated conversation, in return
for which he drawled out slow replies in a tone of languid boredom.

During the fortnight which had elapsed since the date of her misadventure on the river, Darsie
had had frequent meetings with the Percivals, and now felt on the footing of a friend rather
than an acquaintance.  Concerning the girls, there was no question in her mind. They were dears,
not dears of the same calibre as Vie and plain Hannah, dears of a less interesting, more conventional
description, but dears all the same, lively, good-tempered, and affectionate.  The only brother
was a far more complex character, with regard to whom Darsie changed her mind a dozen times
a day.  At one time he was all that was delightful, full of natural, boy-like good-comradeships
at another he was a bored and supercilious dandy, looking down on schoolgirls from an intolerable
height of patronage, and evidently priding himself on a blase indifference.  The present moment
showed him in the latter mood, and Darsie's lips curled as she watched and listened, and in
her eyes there danced a mocking light.  "Like a vain, affected girl!" was the mental comment,
as her thoughts flew back to Harry and Russell, uncompromising and blunt, and to Dan Vernon
in his shaggy strength.  Even as the thought passed through her mind Ralph turned, met the
dancing light of the grey eyes, and turned impatiently aside.  He would not look at her, but
he could feel!  Darsie watched with a malicious triumph the flush creeping slowly over the
smooth pale cheek, the hitch of the shoulders, the restless movement of the hands which betrayed
the hidden discomfort. Presently some friends came forward to join the three ladies, when Ralph
immediately joined her with an invitation which sounded more like a command--

"Come for a walk round the gardens!"

Darsie rose, nothing loath, conscious that she was about to be reproved, and finding an agreeable
sense of support in her lengthened skirts, and the semblance of grown-up-ness which they imparted.

"What did you mean by staring at me like that?"

"Like which?"

"You know very well.  You did it on purpose to annoy me, and make me uncomfortable."

"Oh no, I didn't!  I didn't do anything.  It did itself.  It was just the outward and visible
expression of my inward and invisible thoughts."

"Pretty middling disagreeable thoughts they must have been!"

"Humph!  Not disagreeable exactly.  Hardly strong enough for that.  Just amused!"

"Amused!"  The flush deepened on the lad's cheek.  Unwittingly Darsie had hit upon the most
scathing of all indictments.  To be an object of amusement to others!  What could be more lacerating
to the dignity of nineteen years.  "I had no idea that I was being so funny.  Will you have
the goodness to point out what you found so amusing?"

"Your airs," replied Darsie bluntly.  "And graces!  You asked me, you know, so I'm bound to
tell you.  It's so odd to see a boy like that. But you needn't be cross.  I'm speaking only
for myself.  Those other girls liked it very much...  You could see that for yourself."

"Just so.  We are talking of your opinion at the moment, however, not of theirs.  What sort
of--er--boys are you accustomed to meet, if one may ask?"

The strong accent thrown on the word "boys" showed a fresh ground of complaint.  Darsie felt
a twinge of compunction, remembering the episode of the punt and her own great cause for gratitude.
The answer came with startling earnestness.

"Not a bit braver than you, nor quicker and cleverer in an emergency. Perhaps not so good.
If you'd hesitated one moment I mightn't have been here to criticise.  But, just big, simple
boys, not an ounce of affectation between them.  Of course, they are not handsome.  That makes
a difference..."

But Ralph was not to be mollified by a compliment on his good looks.  He was irritated, and
considered that he had good reason for being so. Darsie Garnett was an unusually pretty and
attractive girl, and having saved her from a perilous position but a fortnight earlier, it
had been an agreeable delusion to imagine himself ensconced for life in her estimation as a
gallant young rescuer, the object of her undying gratitude and admiration--a delusion indeed,
since the criticism of those mocking eyes was more than equalled by the explicitness of her
explanations!

Ralph looked injured and melancholy, and Darsie, with characteristic softness of heart, was
instantly seized with compunction.  She was finding out for herself what every one who came
in contact with Ralph Percival discovered sooner or later--that it was exceedingly difficult
to keep up a feeling of offence against any one who showed his displeasure in so interesting
and attractive a fashion.

He was so handsome, so graceful in movement, he had the art of concealing the most ordinary
emotions behind a cloak of baffling superiority.  To-day, as he paced the garden paths by Darsie's
side, Ralph wore the air of a lovelorn poet, of a patriot sorrowing for his country, an artist
wrestling over a life's masterpiece, like anything or everything, in fact, but just what he
was--a sulky and empty-headed young gentleman, wounded in his own conceit!

To her own amazement Darsie presently found herself engaged in the humble position of "making
it up," and in taking back one after another each disparaging remark which she had made, which,
being done, Ralph graciously consented to "think no more about it!" and strolled off to speak
to a friend, leaving her stranded by herself at the far end of the garden.

The position would have been an uncomfortable one had it not happened that just at that moment
a bell rang loudly, followed by a sudden gathering together of the guests upon the cedar lawn.
Mr Percival was making some announcement which was greeted by bursts of approving laughter.
The words of the announcement were inaudible to Darsie's ears, but the purport was unmistakable.
The treasure hunt had begun! With one accord the guests turned and streamed in the direction
of the gardens, turning to right and to left, peering beneath bushes, poking delicately among
the foliage of flower-beds with the ferules of walking- sticks and parasols...

Darsie turned and fled like a lapwing along the path leading past the tennis-lawn and rose
and vegetable gardens, to the shaded fern grotto which formed one of the boundaries of the
grounds.  The idea had come to her to begin, so to speak, at the end and have the field to
herself, but, as is usually the case, she was to discover that others were as ingenious as
herself, for she had soon quite a string of followers along the narrow paths.

The thickly growing ferns seemed to offer endless hiding-places, but a printed notice to the
effect that "It is not necessary to walk upon the Beds!" seemed to limit the possible area
to that within reach of hand or stick.  Darsie poked and peered, lifted the hanging fronds
which fell over the rockwork border of the lily pond, stood on tiptoe on the rustic seat to
peer between the branches of surrounding trees, but could discover nothing in the semblance
of a paper packet.  It was the same story in the rose garden, though the thick foliage on the
pergolas seemed to offer numberless hiding-places for dainty packets, containing great gear
in little bulk; it was the same story in the wide, herbaceous border, though pathways on either
side offered double opportunities for search.  For the first few minutes the search was pursued
in almost complete silence, but as time went on there came the sound of one triumphant cry
after another, as a busy searcher was rewarded by a sudden sight of the longed-for paper wrapping.
Darsie's envious eyes beheld one young girl running gaily past, with no less than three trophies
carried bag-like in the folds of a chiffon scarf.  Three! And she herself had not yet discovered
one!  What would the Percivals say if at the end of the hunt she returned empty-handed?  The
surprised incredulity of the girls, the patronising condolences of Ralph, seemed in prospect
equally unwelcome.  Desire for a present itself became subservient to anxiety for the credit
of her own sharp-sightedness and intuition.  She must and would discover a parcel before the
time limit was past.

The next half-hour passed in a search ever more eager and strenuous, as with every moment that
passed the chance of success diminished.  So many treasures had already been discovered that
Darsie began to think with a pang that perhaps there were no more to be found.  Every third
or fourth visitor seemed to be carrying a trophy; some with airs of would-be modesty were wending
their way back to the cedar lawn carrying as many as three or four, declaring that really and
really they must not look any more--it was altogether too greedy!  As they passed by the spot
where Darsie pursued her ceaseless search, they would pause with words of maddening advice
or condolence.

"Not found anything yet?  How unfortunate!  Look beneath the leaves..." Once Ralph passed by
and arched his eyebrows in eloquent surprise.  He seemed on the point of offering advice, but
Darsie whisked off in the opposite direction, to take refuge in the least frequented portion
of the grounds, the orchard.

Only ten minutes left!  The bell of warning was pealing loudly from the cedar lawn, she could
hear the merry chatter of the returning guests.

Darsie lifted her muslin skirts and ran quickly in and out between the trees, searching for
some hiding-place as yet undiscovered.  The gnarled branches seemed to offer endless convenient
niches, but in none of them could anything in the shape of a parcel be discovered.  She was
on the point of abandoning the search and returning empty-handed, when, lifting up a heavy
branch, her eyes suddenly lit upon a cavity in the trunk of one of the oldest trees.  When
the branch remained in its ordinary position, the hollow was completely hidden from sight;
moreover its position facing the wall made it doubly invisible.  It hardly seemed possible
that so very obscure a hiding-place would be chosen under the circumstances, but at this last
moment no chance could be neglected.

Darsie rolled back her dainty net sleeve, plunged her hand deep into the hollow trunk, and
flushed with triumph as her fingers came in contact with something loose and soft.  It was
not a paper parcel, it felt more like cloth--cloth with knotted ends all ready to pull.  Darsie
pulled with a will, found an unexpected weight, put up a second hand to aid the first, and
with a tug and a cloud of dust brought to light nothing more exciting than a workman's handkerchief,
knotted round a lumpy parcel which seemed obviously a midday meal.

It was a disappointment, but the next moment an inherent sense of humour had discovered its
possibilities of the position and gallantly accepted a second best.

Since she might not possess a proper present, she could at least be the happy proprietor of
a joke!  Into the middle of the ring of guests she would march, handkerchief bundle in hand,
and to her credit would remain, if not the greatest applause, at least the biggest laugh of
the afternoon!  Darsie drew down her sleeve, brushed the top coating of dust from the handkerchief,
and hurried onwards towards the cedar lawn.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

A TREASURE INDEED.

Darsie was one of the last guests to arrive upon the final scene of the treasure hunt, and
already the merry process of parcel opening had begun.  The young girl who had captured three
prizes was on her knees before a garden seat, laying them out in a row to be seen and admired
of all.  Gaily dressed women were running about appealing to their male friends for the loan
of penknives to cut the encircling string, and the air was full of the sound of laughter and
happy, triumphant voices.

"How lovely!  How beautiful!  Isn't it charming?  Just what I wanted!"

Darsie stood in the background, her hands clasping her bundle behind her back, so as to screen
it from view until the right moment arrived for its production.  The prize-winners were one
and all in such a desperate hurry to examine their "finds" that she would not have long to
wait, and meanwhile the scene was delightful to witness.

Every one looked gay, and happy and smiling; the many-coloured frocks of the women made charming
flecks of colour against the sombre green of the old cedar, as they moved to and fro with dazzling,
kaleidoscopic effect. Darsie had never even imagined such a scene; it seemed to her more like
fairyland than the dull work-a-day world.

She looked on, absorbed in delighted admiration, while one after another the coverings were
torn from the dainty packages, and the brilliance of the scene was enhanced by the glitter
of silver, and glass, and dainty patches of colour.  It would take long, indeed, to write of
the treasures which Mrs Percival had amassed in that day in town; it seemed to Darsie that
nothing less than the contents of an entire shop window could have supplied so bewildering
a variety.  Bags, purses, satchels, brushes, manicure-cases, blotters, boxes, cigarette-cases,
photograph frames, fans, brooches, bracelets, buckles, studs, tie-pins, waistcoat buttons--wherever
the eye turned there seemed something fresh and beautiful to admire.

After such an Aladdin's feast, would not her workman's bundle fall very flat?  With a sudden
access of humility Darsie was about to turn tail and put the poor man's dinner back in its
hiding-place, when from across the lawn she met Ralph's eyes fixed upon her with an expression
of patronising commiseration.  He was pitying her, because she had come back empty-handed when
sharper eyes had reaped so rich a harvest!  That touch of superiority made short work of Darsie's
hesitation.  She would show that she was in no need of pity, that so far from being overpowered
by failure, she remained jaunty and self-confident enough to turn her own disappointment into
a joke for the amusement of others!  With head thrown back she marched dramatically forward
to the spot where Mrs Percival stood, the gracious mistress of the ceremonies, and held the
bundle towards her in extended hands.

"Dear child, what have you there?  A bundle--a workman's bundle!  Where in the world have you
discovered that?"

"In the trunk of an old tree, in the orchard near the wall."

"In the orchard?  It belongs most likely to one of the men.  His dinner, I should say, but
what an odd place to hide it!  So dirty!"  She gave a dainty little shake of distaste.  "I
should put it away, dear, really! It is covered with dust."

"It's a very lumpy dinner," said Darsie, patting the surface of the bundle with curious fingers.
"I thought perhaps it was a treasure done up in a different way from the others.  It's heavy,
too, far heavier than bread and cheese.  I can open it, can't I?  Just to make sure!"

"Oh, certainly, if you like--" assented Mrs Percival dubiously, and Darsie waited for no further
permission, but promptly knelt down on the grass and set to work to untie the knotted ends
of the checked handkerchief.  The surrounding guests gathered around in a laughing circle,
being in the gay and gratified frame of mind when any distraction is met halfway, and ensured
of a favourable reception.  What was this pretty girl about?  What joke was hidden away in
this commonplace-looking bundle?

The knot was strongly tied, but Darsie's fingers were strong also and in a minute's time it
was undone, and the corners of the handkerchief dropped on the grass to reveal an inner bag
of thick grey linen tied again round the mouth.

"It is lumpy!" repeated Darsie again; then with a tug the string came loose, and lifting the
bag in her hands, she rained its contents over the grass.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Was it a dream?  Was it some fantasy of imagination--some wonderful effect of sunshine shining
upon hundreds and hundreds of dewdrops, and turning them into scintillating balls of light,
catching reflections from the flowers in yonder beds, and sending dancing rays of red, blue,
and green across the grass?  Red and blue and green the rainbow drops gleamed upon the ground,
vivid and clear as the loveliest among the blossoms, but possessed of a radiance which no earth
flower had inherited before.

Darsie sat back on her heels, her arms, falling slack by her sides, her wide eyes fixed on
the ground in a surprise too complete for speech. Nobody spoke; the stupor in her own brain
must surely have communicated itself to the guests crowding around, for while one might have
counted fifty there was blank, utter silence upon the lawn.  Then suddenly came a dramatic
interruption; a cry, almost a scream, in a high, feminine voice, and a tall, fashionably dressed
woman grasped wildly at a dangling chain of stones.

"My rubies!  My rubies!  My beautiful, beautiful rubies!  Found again! Safe!  Oh, my rubies!"
She burst into excited sobs, a gentleman came forward and led her gently aside, but her place
was immediately taken by other women--white-faced, eager, trembling with anxiety.

"Oh!  Oh-h--let me look!  It's the jewels, the lost jewels-- Are my diamonds among them?  Do
you see a diamond necklace with an emerald clasp?  Oh, do, do look!"

"My sapphires!  They were taken, too.  My sapphires!--"

They fell on their knees, regardless of their filmy draperies, and grasped at one shining treasure
after another.  The delicate chains were knotted together; curved corners of gold had caught
in other curved corners, so that in some cases half a dozen different ornaments presented the
appearance of one big, bejewelled ball, and it was no easy matter to disentangle one from the
other.  The different owners, however, showed a marvellous quickness in recognising even a
fragment of their lost treasures, and their exultation was somewhat undignified as they turned
and twisted and coaxed the dainty threads, and finally clasped their lost treasures, safe and
sound, and all the time Darsie sat back on her heels, with her golden hair hanging in heavy
masses over her shoulders, her eyes fixed upon this extraordinary scene, staring-- staring!

"Darsie, dear child, how can we thank you?"  Mrs Percival's low voice trembled with earnestness;
she had lifted a long string of pearls from the grass, and now held it between both hands,
with a transparent pleasure it was true, but without any of the hysteric excitement shown by
her guests.

"Do you realise all that your workman's bundle contained, or the weight you have taken off
our minds?  It was the thief's bundle, the bundle of jewels which he stole from the house on
the night of the Hunt Ball, which we have tried so hard to recover!  To think--to think that
all this time they have been hidden close at hand!"

"Hidden with a purpose, too!  Look at this, Evelyn!" interrupted Mr Percival, holding out a
corner of the checked handkerchief towards his wife, with a stern look on his handsome face--

"`B.W.'  That's Wilson's property!  He was a worse offender than we thought."

"Wilson?  That was the young gamekeeper, wasn't it?" asked another man-- the husband of the
lady who was still crooning over her recovered diamonds.  "You thought he had been led away
by smart London thieves, but this seems as if he had taken a leading part.  Looks, too, as
if there may have been only himself and Forbes in the affair!"

"Just so!  No wonder Wilson refused to give the names of his colleagues. When the chase grew
too hot he hid the spoils in this tree--evidently an old hiding-place--before climbing the
wall.  If he had made clear away that night we should never have suspected his share in the
theft. He would have turned up as usual next morning, and expressed great surprise at the news.
As it is he and Forbes are no doubt patiently waiting until their sentences are out, expecting
to slip back some dark night and secure their prey.  From such point of view it is a small
business to serve a few months when there's a fortune waiting at the end!  Well, this takes
ten years off my back.  I can't tell you how the whole business has preyed on our minds.  My
dear fellow, I am so thankful that your diamonds have turned up!"

"My dear fellow, it was fifteen times worse for you than for us!  A most uncomfortable position;
I congratulate you a hundred times.  Just in the nick of time, too.  In a month or so there
would have been no bundle to discover."

A general gasp at once of dismay and relief passed round the little inner circle of those most
nearly interested in the recovered treasures, and the first excitement of recovery having passed,
every one seemed bent on lavishing thanks and praises upon the girl through whom the happy
discovery had come about.

"Who is she?"

"What is her name?"

"Where does she come from?"  The questions buzzed on every side, and the answer, "Lady Hayes's
grand-niece," served only to enhance existing attractions.  Darsie found herself kissed, patted,
embraced, called by a dozen caressing names by half a dozen fine ladies in turn, during which
process every eye on the lawn was turned upon her blushing face. Through a gap in the crowd
she could see Lady Hayes holding as it were a secondary court, being thanked effusively for
possessing a grand-niece with a faculty for recovering jewels, and bowing acknowledgments with
a bright patch of colour on either cheekbone.  The position was so strange and bewildering
that even yet it seemed more like a dream than reality; that sudden rain of jewels descending
from the linen bag was the sort of thing one might expect in an Arabian night adventure rather
than in the midst of a decorous English garden-party!  It must surely be in imagination that
she, Darsie Garnett, has been hailed as a good fairy to all these fashionably dressed men and
women!

The almost hysteric effusion of the women who kissed and gushed around her must surely have
something infectious in its nature, since she herself was beginning to feel an insane inclination
to burst into tears or laughter, it was immaterial which of the two it should be.  Darsie turned
a quick look around, searching for a way of escape, and at that moment Noreen's hand pressed
on her arm, and she found herself being led gently towards the house.

"Poor old Darsie, then!  She looks quite dazed!" said Noreen's voice. "No wonder, after all
that fuss.  You've been kissed to pieces, poor dear, and howled over, too.  Silly things! howling
when things are lost, and howling again when they are found!  I've no patience with them; but,
oh, my dear, I do bless you for what you've done!  You've no idea how relieved we shall be.
It was such a stigma to have your guests robbed under your own roof, and by one of your own
men, too.  Mother has never been the same since--worried herself into nerves, and fancied every
one blamed her, and thought she'd been careless.  You can't think how happy she'll be writing
to the people who aren't here to-day telling them that their things are found.  She'll feel
a new creature."

"I'm so glad.  She's a dear.  Wasn't she sweet and dignified among them all?  Oh, dear!  I'm
all churned up.  I thought as I couldn't find a treasure I'd have a little joke on my own account,
and after all I found the biggest treasure of all, Noreen! how much money were those things worth?"

"Oh, my dear, don't ask me!  Mother's pearls alone are worth three thousand, and that's nothing
to the rest.  Mrs Ferriers' rubies are the most valuable, I believe.  Altogether it must be
a fortune--to say nothing of the associations.  Isn't it strange to think of?  An hour ago
you were a stranger whom scarcely any one knew even by sight, and now in a flash you have become
a celebrity, a heroine--the pet of the county!"

"Am I?  Really?  It sounds agreeable.  I'll write to-night and tell Vie Vernon, and sign myself
`The Pet of the County.'  She will be impressed.  Pity it wasn't my own county, where it would
be of more use. I shall probably never see these good people again."

"Fiddle!" cried Noreen derisively.  "No chance of that.  Whether you like it or no, my dear,
this day has settled your fate.  You can never be a mere acquaintance any more.  You've done
us a service which will bind us together as long as we live.  Henceforth a bit of you belongs
to us, and we'll see that we get it!"

CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

A DREAM FULFILLED.

The next week brought with it a succession of bewildering excitements. From morn till night,
as it seemed, the bell rang, and visitors were ushered in to congratulate Lady Hayes and her
niece on the happy episode of the jewel-finding, and to repeat ad infinitum the same questions,
ejaculations, and remarks.  People who had no personal interest in the theft seemed, strangely
enough, quite as excited and curious as those who had; and even when their curiosity was satisfied
there still remained the servants in the house, the tradesmen in the village, the very children
in the roads, who seemed one and all possessed with a thirst to hear the romantic story from
the lips of the heroine herself.

Then letters from relations and friends!  However minutely one might retail every incident,
there still seemed an endless number of details which remained to be told to people who could
not be satisfied without knowing in each case what he said, how she looked, how you yourself
felt and behaved!  The first three days were spent in talk; on the fourth began a second and
still more exciting stage.  The bell rang, a small, daintily tied parcel was handed in for
Miss Garnett, which being unwrapped revealed a red velvet jeweller's box, and within that a
small heart-shaped pendant, slung on a gold chain, and composed of one large and several small
rubies, set transparently, so as to show to advantage their glowing rosy light.  An accompanying
card bore the inscription, "A small expression of gratitude from Mrs Eustace Ferriers"; but
even this proof was hardly sufficient to convince Darsie that such splendour was really for
her own possession.

"Aunt Maria!  Can she mean it?  Is it really to keep?"

"Certainly, my dear.  Why not?  It is quite natural that Mrs Ferriers should wish to give you
some little remembrance as you were the means of restoring a valuable heirloom.  It is a good
stone.  You must be careful not to lose it."

"Is it valuable, Aunt Maria--worth a lot of money?"

"It is a pretty ornament, my dear.  Do not look a gift horse in the mouth."

It was all very well for Aunt Maria, a titled lady with a box full of jewels of her own, to
take things calmly, but for a member of a poor large family to receive a ruby pendant was a
petrifying experience, only to be credited by a continual opening of the box and holding of
it in one's hand to gaze upon its splendours.  And then the very next morning the bell rang
again, and in came another parcel, another jeweller's box, and inside it a blue enamelled watch
with an encircling glitter of light where a family of tiny diamonds formed a border round the
edge.  There was an enamel bow also to fasten it on to a dress, but Darsie fairly quaked at
the thought of the responsibility of wearing so gorgeous an ornament.

"That will do for mother," she announced decidedly.  "It wouldn't be decent for me to flaunt
about in enamel and diamonds when she has an old gold thing that is always slow.  Besides,
if she wears it I can watch the diamonds flash, and that is the best part of the fun.  Aunt
Maria, that's two!  Do you suppose, should you imagine, that they'll all--"

Lady Hayes looked shocked, as in duty bound.

"My dear, I don't suppose anything about it.  That is not our affair. It is sufficient that
these two friends have been most kind and generous, and that you ought to be a very grateful
girl.  Surmises as to future gifts are in the worst possible taste."

Darsie wrinkled her nose and sat in silence for several moments, moving the little watch to
and fro to catch the play of light upon the stones. Then suddenly she spoke again--

"Aunt Maria, what are your ideas with regard to luck?"

"I have none, my dear.  I don't believe in its existence!"

"But you must, Aunt Maria.  You must.  It was the merest luck my seeing that hole, and thinking
of feeling inside, but it seems as if it were going to have such big consequences.  Just in
a moment it has brought me more influential friends than most girls meet with in the whole
of their lives.  They are all grateful to me; they feel that I have helped them; they want
to help me in return; but after all there's no credit to me, it was all done without one scrap
of thought or trouble.  It seems hard to think that many people work and slave for years, and
fail to gain a quarter as much as I have done by just pure luck!"

"Don't be so sweeping in your assertions, child.  These are early days yet to talk about results.
When you come to my age, my dear, you will look back and realise that those who go through
life in the right spirit are never left to the mercy of what you call `luck.'  `Submit thy
way unto the Lord, and He will direct thy path.'  I am an old woman, Darsie, but I can say
from my heart that goodness and mercy have followed me all the days of my life."

Darsie sat gazing thoughtfully into her aunt's face.  Within the last weeks a degree of intimacy
had developed between the old woman and the girl, which made it possible for the latter to
speak out more openly than she would have believed possible a short month before.

"Aunt Maria," she said slowly, "I wish you would explain...  You talk of goodness and mercy,
but--don't be shocked!--it doesn't seem to me that you have so much to be thankful for! ...
You are rich, of course, but that doesn't count for much by itself, and your life must have
been hard...  You are delicate, and your husband died, and you have no children--no one to
live with you in this big house.  Now when you are old you are so lonely that you are glad
to have me--a girl like me--for a few weeks' visit!  When I go away you will be lonely again..."

A tremor passed over Lady Hayes's face; the thin fingers crossed and uncrossed themselves on
her lap, but she smiled, a brave and patient smile.  "You are right, Darsie.  I have had bitter
trials, nevertheless I have gained the greatest treasure that is given to any one on this earth."

"What is that, Aunt Maria?"

"Peace in my soul, child--`the peace of God, which passeth understanding,'" said the old woman
solemnly.

There was silence in the room.  Darsie bent her head, awed and touched by the sound of those
wondrous words.  A month ago, at home with her brothers and sisters, she would have scoffed
at the idea of peace in connection with Great-aunt Maria, but a closer intimacy had altered
her opinion.  About the trifling affairs of every day Aunt Maria continued to fuss.  No one
could deny for a moment that she fussed; but the big demands of life found her calm, serene,
prepared.  On the surface the waters might dash occasionally into foam, but the deep, strong
current bore steadily towards the sea!

Darsie pondered, and as though divining the course of her thoughts, Lady Hayes spoke once more.

"Perhaps that appears to you a serious statement for me to make, since there are times when
I must appear a very unpeaceful person.  I am apt to be unduly concerned about trifles, to
my own exhaustion and that of others.  I am aware of the fact, and also that to one of your
impetuous disposition such a failing must be particularly trying.  Nevertheless, Darsie,"--the
old voice deepened impressively--"the peace is there!"

Slowly, thoughtfully Darsie bowed her head.

"Yes, I know.  I've felt it.  It has made me ashamed.  The human part of you may get out of
hand sometimes, but you are very nearly an angel, Aunt Maria.  You haven't much more to learn!"

Lady Hayes shook her head, but her hand fell on Darsie's head with a tender touch, and a light
shone in the tired eyes.  The lonely heart was grateful for those words of encouragement.

Darsie's surmise that still more presents might arrive was justified by the delivery of three
more packets--a dainty little pearl necklace from Mrs Percival, a turquoise and diamond ring
(oh, the rapture of owning a real ring of one's very own!) and a combination present of a jewelled
bangle from three other ladies who had benefited by the lucky find. Thus in one short week
had Darsie's jewellery risen from a total which she herself described as consisting of "a few
glass beads and a gold safety-pin" to five separate articles of real beauty and value.

She was fond of spreading her treasures in a row on the table and gazing at them en bulk, moving
her head from side to side to enjoy the flashing colours of the stones, and as she did so Lady
Hayes was more than surprised by a mercenary element which seemed out of keeping with the girl's
natural character.

"Rubies are the most valuable stones, aren't they, Aunt Maria--more valuable than diamonds?"

"If they are of the right colour and depth, and of sufficient size."

"You said this was a good stone.  It's a ripping colour.  I should think this must be a valuable
stone, wouldn't you?"

"I prefer not to speculate on the subject, child."

Or again--

"I should think this watch was worth lots of money.  I have just counted, and there are forty
diamonds, teenies, of course, but still-- And the enamel is so fine.  My bracelet has five
big diamonds, and a whole heap of pearls; and there's the necklace, too.  Should you think,
Aunt Maria, that they were worth a hundred pounds put together?"

Lady Hayes laid down her knitting, and stared with stony eyes into the girl's face.

"I have told you before, Darsie, that I excessively dislike surmises as to the value of presents.
I am surprised and disappointed to discover signs of an avaricious and grasping nature!"

To her surprise and dismay the only reply to this serious aspersion was a good-natured laugh.

"Goodness gracious, mercy on us!" cried Darsie audaciously.  "I'm bad enough, in all conscience,
but I'm not that!  Not a grasp in me!  You ask any one at home, and they'll tell you I'm quite
stupidly generous. It's not the money for the money's sake, I think of, but for what it will
do!  I've no use for jewels, Aunt Maria--shan't ever have a chance of wearing them, like Noreen
and Ida.  Imagine a daily governess glittering with gems!  But if only--only I could turn them
into money, it might fulfil the big ambition of my life and send me to Newnham, without troubling
father for a penny!  Can you wonder that I feel impatient with watches and chains when I think
of that?"

"I am sorry, my dear.  I did not understand.  I apologise!" said Lady Hayes promptly.  It was
this unfailing sense of justice, combined with the dignity which never forsook her under any
stress of excitement or agitation, which had been most largely instrumental in attracting the
girl's admiration.  From the impetuous standpoint of youth it seemed an almost inhuman pinnacle
of perfection, but Darsie was quite determined that at some far-distant elderly epoch--say,
in thirty years' time--she would begin practising these virtues on her own account.  They seemed
the only decorous accompaniment of white hair and spectacles.

She stretched out a sunburnt hand and patted the old lady's shoulder with an affectionate touch.

"All right!  Don't worry.  It did seem greedy, and of course you couldn't guess.  You see,
it's particularly hard because plain Ha- Hannah Vernon, I mean--is going up, and that seems
to make it worse for me.  Her father is richer than ours, and he believes in higher education,
so it's all settled that she is to go to Newnham, and she talks about it all the time, and
pities me when she's in a good temper, and brags when she's not.  And Dan would be at Cambridge,
too, and Ralph Percival, and, oh dear, oh dear, we'd have such sport!  Balls, and picnics,
and cocoa parties, and boating in summer--no end of lovely exciting pranks!"

"Excuse me, my dear,"--Lady Hayes was frosty again, staring stonily over the rim of her spectacles--"excuse
me, but would you kindly explain for what reason you are anxious to go to Cambridge?  I had
imagined that it was for education, now it appears that balls and picnics are the attraction.
Which of the two is it of which you are really thinking?"

"Oh, Aunt Maria, I'm a human girl!  Of both!" cried Darsie, laughing. "Education first, of
course, because of the result, and all it will mean afterwards, but if you want the truth,
I shouldn't be so keen if it wasn't for the fun!  We know a girl who's just come down, and
it sounds such a lovely life...  I'd work hard; I love work, and when there is any on hand
there's no peace for me till it's done; but wouldn't I just play, too!  It would be the time
of my life.  Oh, Aunt Maria, when I look at the governesses at school, and think that I'm going
to be like that all my days, it does seem hard that I shouldn't have just two or three years
first of the life I want!"

The words, the tone, both bore a touch of real pathos; nevertheless Lady Hayes smiled, as if,
so far from being pained by the sad prospect, she found something amusing in the contemplation.

"It is a mistake to look too far ahead in life, but of course if you contemplate teaching,
you ought to be thoroughly equipped."  She was silent for a moment, gazing thoughtfully through
the window.  Then in a level, perfectly commonplace voice she continued: "I shall be pleased,
my dear, to defray the expenses of your course at Newnham..."

The manner in which our great ambitions in life meet their realisation is always and inevitably
other than we have imagined.  Sometimes so many years have passed by since the dreaming of
the cherished plans, that the eager spirit is transformed into a wearied and dispirited being,
to whom fulfilment brings no joy; sometimes it comes freighted with complications which rob
it of half its zest; sometimes it brings no charm at all, but only bitterness and disappointment;
and again--oh, often again, thank God for His mercies!--it comes at the moment of hopelessness,
of renunciation, dazzling the eyes and heart with a very incredulity of joy.

Those few quiet words in an old woman's voice transformed for Darsie Garnett the whole path
ahead, making what had seemed a far-away vision become a solid, tangible fact.  Quietly, prosaically,
without any nourish of trumpets, the great prize of life had been handed into her grasp.

She sat motionless, staring with distended eyes, while Lady Hayes continued to speak in calm,
even tones.

"I should like to explain to you, my dear, that I am not as rich a woman as I appear.  It was
my dear husband's wish that I should continue to occupy this house for the term of my life,
but after that it passes to his relations.  It is an expensive place to keep up, and leaves
little margin out of the income which goes with it.  I cannot save as I should have wished,
and my own property is not large.  When it is divided among my various nephews and nieces,
there will not be much for each.  I should like to have done more for your father, as he has
a large family to provide for, but it is impossible.  In your case, however, you have done
me a kindness in spending these weeks with me when I needed companionship--and, I think, we
are good friends!  I can spare a few hundreds to give you your training and your fun--and it
will be a pleasure to me to do so.  I will make a formal arrangement in my will so that in
the case of my--so that in any case the money may be forthcoming.  So, my dear, you may look
upon the matter as settled, and make your arrangements accordingly."

Darsie put her hands to her head.  Her cheeks were white, but around her eyes and nose an increasing
pinkness of hue betrayed the inward struggle of emotion.

"I'm going to cry!  I'm going to cry!" she cried.  And when Lady Hayes began a protest, "Oh,
Aunt Maria, don't, don't be proper!" she pleaded piteously.  "I can't bear it just now.  Please,
please let me thank you in my own way!  I must howl!  I must!  I'm all seething and churning
with emotion, and if I don't cry I shall burst; but oh, I do love you--I adore you--I shall
worship you until my dying day...  You'll be like a saint to me.  I'll put you up on a pedestal
and burn incense to you every day of my life.  If you knew what it meant!  And I've been so
mean and hateful--such a contemptible little worm!  Oh, if I lived a hundred thousand years,
I could never repay you for this!"

"My dear, does it strike you that you are talking in a very wild, exaggerated fashion?"

"I am, I am!  Girls do, Aunt Maria, when they are off their heads with joy.  Wild, I mean,
not exaggerated--I mean it, every word.  Oh, I must hug you.  Never mind your cap; I must give
you a bear hug, if I die for it.  Dear, dearest, kindest, best--"

The old lady's stiff, upright figure disappeared bodily within the swooping arms; she was squeezed,
hugged, rocked to and fro, and pelted with kisses until she was speechless and gasping for
breath.  When she was released her cap was askew, and the muslin folds in the front of her
gown crumpled out of recognition; but for a marvel she spoke no word of reproach, and Darsie
saw, with a sobering thrill, a glitter as of tears in the old eyes, and the mental question
which arose at the sight was answered with intuitive sharpness.  It was so long since she had
been hugged before, so many, many years since anything more than a conventional peck had been
pressed upon her cheek!  Old, stern, proper as she was, Aunt Maria loved to be loved!

For the rest of the morning Darsie was as subdued and gentle in manner as she had hitherto
been boisterous.  The future was discussed in detail, and plans made which revolutionised more
and more her future life, for Lady Hayes seemed to take for granted that in taking upon herself
the responsibility for the girl's education she had earned a certain right to her society.
Such phrases as "And in the holiday-time we can discuss," "When you are here in the summer
vacation," "I shall look forward to hearing your descriptions," could not be misunderstood,
but for the moment the big gain outweighed the loss, and Darsie smiled on unperturbed.  In
time to come the sacrifice of merry family holidays would of a certainty demand its toll of
suffering, but why encourage trouble that lay ahead when the present was so blissfully full
of contentment?

When lunch was over Darsie tucked her hostess on the sofa, and hailed with delight the opportunity
of a free hour in which to dream uninterrupted over the wonderful development of the day.

"I'll go out and walk it off.  I'll rush down to the village and telegraph home.  I can't possibly
wait to write.  How can I put it so that it will be plain enough and not too plain?  `Newnham
ahoy!'  `I'm off to Newnham College in the morning!'  `Plans for Newnham satisfactorily arranged.
Break news to Hannah.'  Won't they stare! It's a blessing that neither Clemence nor Lavender
would care to go if they had the chance, so they won't be jealous, but Hannah will jump. And
Dan--what will Dan say?  It is good luck knowing the boys so well. We'll make them take us
about.  To think that I was so furious and rebellious about this visit, and that it should
have ended like this! It will be a lesson to me for life!"

It was very pleasant to ride through the sweet smelling lanes on this bright summer afternoon;
very pleasant work sending off that telegram to the parents at the seaside, and drawing mental
pictures of the excitement and rejoicings which would follow its arrival; pleasant to meet
on every side kindly, interested glances, and to realise that if she were, as Noreen had declared,
"the pet of the county," she was assuredly also "the heroine of the village."

It was a temptation to linger in the quaint little streets; but on this afternoon of all others
Darsie was anxious not to be late for tea, so, with a sigh of regret, she turned up a side
lane leading to the field path to the Manor, and in so doing came face to face with Ralph Percival,
who, in his lightest and most sporting attire, was escorting a pack of dogs for an airing.
There was the big silky-haired collie whom Darsie loved, the splay-footed dachshund which she
hated, the huge mastiff which she feared, with one or two terriers of different breeds-- alert,
friendly, and gentle-eyed.  One and all came sniffing round her as their master stopped to
shake hands, and she stood up stiff and straight, trying to look at ease, and as if she were
not really in momentary terror of an attack upon her ankles and skirts.

"Halloa!"

"How are you?  Still living in a shower of jewels?"

"I have been, but it's clearing off!  The combination bracelet finished the list.  Now I'm
beginning to live in fear of another burglary, on myself.  It will be a relief to get the things
distributed. Mother is to have the watch, Clemence the pendant, Lavender the brooch, and I
am going to be greedy and keep the bracelet and necklace and ring for myself."

"What a miser!" cried Ralph, laughing.  His grey eyes looked very handsome and agreeable lit
up with the twinkling light of amusement, and Darsie's spirits rose still a degree higher as
he whistled to the dogs and turned round with the evident intention of accompanying her home.

"We'll come along with you.  It doesn't matter where we go so long as we have a run.  Bound
for the Manor, I suppose?  How's the old lady?  In a good humour, I should say.  You look particularly
full of beams this afternoon!"

"I am--brimming over!  You see before you, kind sir, the touching spectacle of a young female
who has not a single ungratified wish in the world, and is so happy that she doesn't know how
to preserve a decent appearance of calm.  It's the more extraordinary because she usually wants
quite a lot."

Ralph's eyebrows went up in expressive disdain.

"Re-al-ly!  You don't say so!  Glad to hear it, I'm shaw!  The kind donors would be much gratified
to know of the magic effect of their gifts.  I wonder, under the circumstances, that you could
bear to part from any of them!"

The words were spoken in his most drawling and superior voice, and brought the blood rushing
into Darsie's cheeks.  She stood still in the middle of the road, and glared at him with flashing
eyes.

"Horrible boy!  What a disagreeable mind you must have, to think such mean, contemptible thoughts!
Bother the jewellery!  It may go to Jericho for all I care.  I'm happy for a very different
reason.  Aunt Maria has just promised to pay for me to go to Newnham, and that has been the
dream of my life.  There's nothing to sneer at, you see, though perhaps you can manage to be
superior even about that!"

"Yes, easily.  I hate blue-stockings," said Ralph calmly, but his eyes twinkled as he spoke,
and in spite of herself Darsie was obliged to smile in response.

"And I hate narrow-minded, prejudiced young men!  Oh dear! you've put me in a bad temper on
this day of days, just when I felt that I could never be cross again.  I'll forgive you only
because it's impossible to go on being cross.  I've just been to the post-office to telegraph
the great news to my people at the seaside.  They'll be wild with excitement, especially my
chum who will be going up at the same time, Hannah Vernon--`plain Hannah' we call her.  Funny
nickname, isn't it?"

"Sounds ingratiating!"  Voice and expression were alike so expressive that Darsie went off
into a merry trill of laughter, as she hastened to take up the cudgels in plain Hannah's defence.

"She doesn't care a bit.  Jokes about it with the rest.  And she is so funnily ugly that it's
really rather dear.  And clever!  She'll be a first-class girl, you'll see if she isn't.  I
shall be nowhere beside her, but I'm going to grind.  Let me see: if we go up in three years'
time, when we're eighteen, how long will you have left of your course?"

"Perhaps a year, perhaps two.  Depends upon how soon I go up.  It isn't as if I had to go in
for a profession or anything of that kind.  I shall spend my life looking after the property,
and there's no particular need to swot for that."

"I hate loafers," said Darsie in her turn, then once more relented and said genially, "But
I don't believe you mean half that you say.  Anyway, I shall look forward to meeting you at
Cambridge, and I hope you are prepared to be kind, and to be ready to return the good offices
which I have been able to render to your respected family."

"I am.  What do you want me to do?"

"To be nice to me at Cambridge!  I shall be a shy, lone Fresher, and you can make things much
livelier for me if you like.  I want you to like! Dan Vernon will be there, too, but he's so
serious and clever that he won't be much good for the fun part.  I want you to promise not
to be superior and proud, but a real friend to take us about, and dance with us at the balls,
and get up picnics on the river.  I can manage the work part for myself, but I want some help
for the fun!"

She expected an instant response, but Ralph was too cautious to be drawn into rash promises.

"Er--what exactly do you mean by `we'?"

"Myself and my chum, of course--Hannah Vernon."

"Plain Hannah?"

"Plain Hannah!"

Ralph shook his handsome head.

"I make no promise as regards plain Hannah.  I'm not particularly partial to plain Hannahs,
but I'll do my level best for Darsie Garnett. Like to!  You can count upon me to do my best
to give you a rattling good time."

Darsie regarded him doubtfully, reflected that it was wisdom to accept what one could get,
and smiled a gracious approval.

"Thanks--so much!  Then it's a promise?"

"Certainly.  A promise!"

They laughed again.  The dogs leaped in the air and barked with delight. Everything and every
one seemed happy to-day.  Darsie felt that if she lived to be a hundred she could never, by
any possibility, reach a higher pinnacle of content.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

AFTER THREE YEARS.

"Is your trunk ready, Darsie?  Are you ready to come down?  Lunch is on the table and we're
all waiting.  Have you fitted everything in?  Oh dear, oh dear, how bleak and bare the room
does look!  I shall never have the heart to enter it after you're gone."

Clemence Garnett, aged twenty years, gave a pitiful glance round the dismantled room, which
a few hours before had been decorated with the many and varied objects which were Darsie's
treasures.  She looked at the wooden wardrobe, the doors of which swung wide, showing a row
of empty pegs, at the scattering of paper and rejected ends of ribbon and lace which littered
the floor, and finally back at the figure of Darsie herself, kneeling before the great black
trunk, with her golden hair ruffling round a flushed, eager face.

"Sit on it, Clemence, like a lamb.  It's got to meet, but it's inches apart still.  Sit down
with a flop, and be your heaviest, while I fight with the lock."

"Better take something out.  If you make it so full, it may burst half- way.  How would you
like that?"

"Not much; but better than leaving anything behind.  It wouldn't dare to burst after costing
so much money.  There!  It's done.  You're a pretty substantial weight, my dear.  Now then
for lunch and a rest; I've had a terrific morning."

Darsie rose to her feet and stood for a moment before the mirror, putting a tidying touch to
hair and dress.  She was a tall, slim girl, nearly a head taller than the more substantial
Clemence, and the easy grace which characterised her movements was the first thing which attracted
an unaccustomed eye.  Even Clemence, with perceptions dulled by custom, felt dimly that it
was an agreeable thing to watch Darsie brush her hair and shake out her skirts, though in another
person such acts would be prosaic and tiresome.  The crisp hair needed nothing but a brush
and a pat to settle itself into a becoming halo of waves, and the small face on the long white
neck had a quaint, kitten-like charm. Clemence looked from the real Darsie to the reflected
Darsie in the glass, and felt a sudden knife-like pang.

"Oh, how I hate you going!  How dull it will be.  Why couldn't you be content to stay at home
instead of taking up this Newnham craze?  I shall miss you hideously, Darsie!"

Darsie smiled involuntarily, then nobly tried to look sad.

"I expect you will, but one grown-up at home is as much as we can afford, and there'll be lovely
long vacs.  You must think of those, and the letters, and coming up to see me sometimes, and
term time will pass in a flash.  I'll be back before you realise that I'm gone."

Clemence pouted in sulky denial.

"Nothing of the sort.  It will seem an age.  It's easy to talk!  People who go away have all
the fun and excitement and novelty; it's the poor stay-at-homes who are to be pitied.  How
would you like to be me, sitting down to-morrow morning to darn the socks?"

"Poor old Clem!" said Darsie lightly.  A moment later, with relenting candour, she added: "You'll
like it a lot better than being examined by a Cambridge coach!  So don't grouse, my dear; we've
both got the work we like best--come down to lunch, and let's see what mother has provided
for my go-away meal!"

Darsie slid a hand through Clemence's arm as she spoke and the two sisters squeezed down the
narrow staircase, glad in their English, undemonstrative fashion of the close contact which
an inherent shyness would have forbidden except in this accidental fashion.  Across the oil-
clothed passage they went, into the red-walled dining-room, where the other members of the
family waited their arrival.

Mrs Garnett smiled at the traveller with a tinge of wistfulness on her face; the four young
people stared, with a curiosity oddly infused with respect.  A girl who was on the eve of starting
for college had soared high above the level of ordinary school.  Lavender, at "nearly seventeen,"
wore her fair locks tied back with a broad black ribbon; her skirts reached to her ankles;
she was thin and angular; her head was perpetually thrust forward, and a pair of spectacles
were worn perpetually over the bridge of her pointed little nose.  The description does not
sound attractive, yet in some mysterious manner, and despite all drawbacks, Lavender did manage
to be attractive, and had a select band of followers at school who practised stoops and poked-out
heads out of sheer admiration of her defects.

Harry's voice was beginning to croak, which, taken together with a dawning passion for socks,
ties, and brilliantine, was an unmistakable sign of growing up; Russell was preternaturally
thin and looked all arms and legs; while Tim had forsaken knickers for full-fledged trousers,
and resented any attempt at petting as an insufferable offence.

One and all were on their best company manners on the occasion of Darsie's last lunch, and
the most honeyed replies took the place of the usual somewhat stormy skirmish of wits; nevertheless,
there was a universal feeling of relief when the meal was over, and a peal at the bell announced
the arrival of the cab which was to convey Darsie and a girl companion on the first stage of
their journey.

If anything could have added to Darsie's joy in the fulfilment of a lifelong ambition, it would
have been the fact that Hannah Vernon was to be her companion at Newnham, as she had been through
the earlier schooldays.  All the Vernon family were dears of the first water, and might have
been specially created to meet the needs of their neighbours, the Garnetts.  It is true that
the Vernons possessed the enviable advantage of a big grown-up brother, but when the Garnetts
felt particularly tried on this score, they sought comfort from the reflection that a brother
so solemn and scholarly, so reserved and unresponsive, hardly counted as a brother at all.
Dan was already in the second year of his Cambridge course, and was expected to do great things
before he left.  So far as such a sober person could be made useful, Darsie Garnett intended
to use him towards the furtherance of her own enjoyment of the new life.

For the rest, Vie, the eldest daughter of the Vernon household, was the sworn ally and confidante
of Clemence, and John, the younger son, was in himself such a tower of mischievous strength
that the Garnett trio sat at his feet.  Last, but certainly not least, came Hannah, and Hannah
was--Darsie would have found it an almost impossible task to describe "plain Hannah" to an
unfortunate who had not the honour of her acquaintance.  Hannah was Hannah, a being distinct
by herself-- absolutely different from any one else.  To begin with, she was extraordinarily
plain; but, so far from grieving over the fact, Hannah wore it proudly as the foremost feather
in her cap.

It was she herself who had originated and sanctioned the continued use of the sobriquet, which
had its origin in a juvenile answer given by herself to a stranger who inquired her name.

Now Hannah was the only member of the family who was limited to one cognomen, so she answered
unthinkingly, "Hannah; plain Hannah!" and instantly descrying the twinkling appreciation in
that stranger's eyes, she twinkled herself, and henceforth led the adoption of the title. Long
use had almost deadened its meaning in the ears of the family, but strangers still suffered
at the hearing.

Plain Hannah's face peered cheerily out of the cab window, her little eyes twinkled merrily,
her preposterous eyebrows arched in derision of the melancholy group upon the doorsteps.  No
one dared shed a tear when she was so evidently on the watch for any sign of weakness, sentimental
farewells were checked upon the speaker's lips, and the whole business of parting assumed a
lighter, a more matter-of-fact air.

A second big box was hoisted on to the cab roof, a few kisses shamefacedly exchanged, and then
the travellers were off, and nothing remained to the watchers but to trail drearily back into
a house from which half the brightness seemed to have departed.

Well might Clemence say that the worst pain of a parting fell on those who were left behind!
While the stay-at-homes struggled heavily through a long afternoon, in every moment of which
the feeling of loss became even more acute, Darsie and plain Hannah were enjoying one of the
most exciting experiences of their lives.

In spite of an almost lifelong interest in Cambridge, neither girl had as yet visited the town
itself, so that each incident of the journey was full of interest and excitement.  The station
was disappointingly like other stations, and they had abundant opportunity of examining it
at leisure, since the porters rushed in a body to attend to the male students who had arrived
at the same time, and who could be trusted to give larger tips than their female companions.
The drive through the streets also fell short of expectations; but, after all, Cambridge meant
Newnham, and there could be no disappointment there!  Peered at through the cab window, the
building appeared unexpectedly large and imposing. It gave one a thrill of importance to realise
that for the next three years one would be part and parcel of its life, an inhabitant of its
great halls.

The cabman descended from the box and rang a peal at the bell, and it came as something as
a shock to see an ordinary-looking maid throw open the door, though what exactly they had imagined
the girls would have found it difficult to say.  The maid inquired their names, led them forward
through a long corridor, and flung open the door of a sitting- room where a lady sat before
a desk.  It was a pretty, cheerful-looking apartment, full of flowers, books, pictures, and
quaint old-world furniture, and the lady herself looked so much like other middle-aged ladies,
that if you had not known it you would never have suspected her of being the Vice-President
of a Women's College.

She was kind and agreeable.  She shook hands, and hoped you were well; hoped you had had a
pleasant journey, hoped you would be happy in College, hoped you would like your rooms; but
there was a certain mechanical quality in her voice which betrayed the fact that she had said
the same thing over and over again on innumerable occasions, would say it twenty times or more
this very afternoon, and that your own personal arrival left her perfectly calm and cool.

The girls stuttered and stammered in response, felt vaguely crestfallen, and worried as to
what they should do next, but the Vice herself was in no doubt.  "She hoped they were ready
for tea," and with a wave of the hand summoned the maid to lead them a stage forward on their
journey.

The second stage deposited the new-comers in the dining-hall, where tea was already in progress,
and about a dozen disconsolate-looking Freshers were munching at bread-and-butter and cake
in a silence which could be felt.  Apparently Darsie and Hannah were the only ones of the number
lucky enough to have come up in pairs, but even their tried powers of speech were paralysed
beneath the spell of that terrible silence, and still more so by the relentless scrutiny of
those twelve pairs of eyes. And how those Freshers did stare!  The whites of their eyes positively
shone, as with one accord the pupils turned towards the opening door. They had been stared
at themselves, had come through the ordeal of being the last arrival; now, with thanksgiving,
they were revenging themselves upon fresh victims!  Darsie felt a horrible certainty that she
would drop her cup, and spill the tea over the floor; plain Hannah munched and munched, and
looked plainer than ever, with her shoulders half-way up to her ears and her chin burrowed
in her necktie.

Presently the door opened again, and another Fresher entered, cast a frightened glance around,
and subsided on to the nearest chair, while every eye turned to gaze upon her, in her turn.
This programme was enacted several times over before Darsie and Hannah had finished tea, and
were ready to be escorted to the upstairs apartments, which were to act as bedroom and study
combined.

Mercifully the rooms were close together, so that, leaving Darsie half- way along the corridor,
the maid could point to a door near at hand, where she could join her friend when her inspection
was complete.  She entered with the feeling of one on the threshold of a new life, and stood
gazing around in mingled disappointment and delight.  The first impression was of bareness
and severity, an effect caused by the absence of picture or ornament of any kind.  A small
white bed stood in one corner; a curtain draped another, acting as a substitute for a wardrobe;
a very inadequate screen essayed unsuccessfully to conceal a wooden washstand, and a small
square of glass discouraged vanity on the part of an occupant.  So far, bad! but, on the other
hand, the room contained inexpensive luxuries, in the shape of an old oak chest, a bureau,
a standing bookcase, and a really comfortable wicker chair.

Darsie could hardly believe that these treasures were meant for her own use; it seemed more
likely that they had belonged to a former student, who would presently demand their return.
She was sorrowfully resigning herself to this contingency when the door burst open, and in
rushed Hannah, aglow with excitement.

"I've got a chest, and a bookcase, and a bu--"

Her eyes rounded with surprise.  "I say!  So have you--I thought I was swag!  Do you suppose
it's the usual thing?"

"Can't say.  Topping for us if it is.  But the screen's a wretch, and the walls will need a
lot of covering.  My few mites of pictures will go nowhere.  There's not too much room for
our clothes, either.  We'd better unpack, I suppose, and get out things for dinner.  What are
you going to wear?"

"Oh, something--whatever comes handy," replied plain Hannah in her most casual manner.

The subject seemed to her of infinitesimal importance; but Darsie went through many agitations
of mind before she decided on a high-necked summer frock, and then suffered still keener pangs
because, on descending to Hall, several Freshers were discovered in full evening dress, and,
in her imagination at least, eyed her lace yoke with disdain.

Dinner was almost as silent as tea--an ordeal of curious, appraising eyes, as each Fresher
continued to stare at every other Fresher, condemning her mentally for want of frankness and
kindliness, while utterly neglecting to practise these virtues on her own account.  Then one
by one the girls slunk upstairs, tired, shy, and homesick, and crept gratefully into their
narrow beds.

Sleep was long in coming to Darsie Garnett that night: she lay awake hour after hour, living
over again in thought the events of the last three years.

First and foremost her thoughts went back to the old great-aunt to whose generosity she owed
the present fulfilment of her ambition.  Until Lady Hayes's death, a year ago, Darsie had spent
the major part of her holidays at The Towers, and the friendship between the old woman and
the girl had developed into a very real affection.

It had been a wonderful experience, Darsie reflected, to watch the gradual mellowing of character,
the patient endurance of suffering, the peaceful death which was so truly a "falling asleep."
Until that time Darsie had felt all a girl's natural shrinking from death, but the sight of
Aunt Maria's peaceful face had dissipated that fear once for all.  As she knelt by the bedside
looking at the still, majestic features, she offered the most fervent prayer of her life--a
prayer that she, too, might be enabled to "submit her way," and so in the end find peace in
her soul!

Her acquaintance with the Percival family had ripened into friendship, so that, though Noreen
and Ida could never by any chance supplant the Vernon sisters, there were moments when she
actually felt more at home with Ralph than with queer, silent Dan.

Ralph, at twenty-one, had outgrown many of his boyish failings--or rather, as Darsie shrewdly
surmised, had attained the art of screening them from view.  Instead of snubbing his sisters'
friends and adopting airs of haughty superiority, he was now all deference and attention, transparently
eager for her society.  Dan, on the contrary, was absorbed in work; he had taken the Longs
in summer, so that Darsie had no chance of meeting him before starting on her annual visits
to Lady Hayes.  In the Easter vac. he had visited France and Germany to study languages, while
at Christmas-times he was at once too shy and too busy to take part in the daily excursions
indulged in by his brothers and sisters. He was doing brilliantly at College, and as a better
preparation for his life's work had decided on a four-years course--taking the Tripos in two
parts, in both of which it was a foregone conclusion that he would take a first-class.

Ralph Percival was contentedly slacking it in preparation for a pass degree.  "What did it
matter?" he demanded serenely.  One came to Cambridge, don't you know, because all one's people
had been there, because it was the thing to do, and a rattling old place for sport and having
a good time.  He would be confoundedly sorry when it was over. Only wished he could slack it
out for twice as long!

Darsie first frowned, and then smiled to herself in the dark as she recalled those utterances,
and the actions fitly symbolised her sentiments towards the heir of the Percivals.  Her head
had no mercy for such an utter want of ambition and energy, but the heart plays often a bigger
part than the head in an estimate of a fellow-creature, and Darsie's heart had a way of making
excuses for the handsome truant, who smiled with such beguiling eyes, had such a pretty knack
of compliment, and was--generally!--ready to play knight-errant in her service.  She felt herself
lucky in possessing so charming a friend to act the part of gallant, and to be at her service
when she chose to call.  And then quite suddenly she drew a sharp breath and said aloud in
a trembling voice, "Oh, Aunt Maria, dear Aunt Maria!" and her pillow was wet with tears; for
Aunt Maria was dead, had died too soon to hear of her grand- niece's experiences at Newnham,
to which she had looked forward with such interest, but not before evoking a real love and
gratitude in Darsie's heart.  How thankful the girl was to remember that she had been able
to cheer the last year of that lonely life, to recall every loving word and action, every tiny
scrap of self-denial on her own part which had repaid in some small way the great gift to herself.
Thankful and grateful she would be to the end of her life, but she was not, and had not even
pretended to be, sorry that Aunt Maria was dead.

"She was old, and she was lonely, and she was ill.  I'm glad, not sorry," she had declared
to the scandalised Lavender.  "I'm glad she'll never come hobbling downstairs again, and sit
all the long, long day in one chair, waiting for it to end.  I'm glad she's forgotten all about
her back, and her feet, and her head, and her joints, and all the thousand parts that ached,
and could not rest.  I'm glad she doesn't need any more spectacles, and sticks, and false teeth,
nor to have people shouting into her ear to make her hear.  I'm thankful!  If I'd hated her
I might have liked her to live on here, but I loved her, so I'm glad.  She has gone somewhere
else, where she is happy, and cheerful, and whole, and I hope her husband has met her, and
that they are having a lovely, lovely time together..."

Darsie was glad, too, in quite an open, unconcealed fashion, when a legacy of a few thousand
pounds lifted a little of the strain from her father's busy shoulders, made it possible to
send Harry and Russell to a good boarding-school, continue Clemence's beloved music lessons,
and provide many needfuls for household use.  It was not only pleasant but absolutely thrilling
to know that as long as she herself lived she would, in addition, possess fifty pounds a year--practically
a pound a week--of her very, very own, so that even when she grew too old to teach, she could
retire to a tiny cottage in the country, and live the simple life.  In the meantime, however,
she was young, and life stretched ahead full of delicious possibilities and excitements.

Her great ambition had been achieved.  She was a student at Cambridge; the historic colleges
whose names had so long been familiar on her lips lay but a few streets away, while in her
own college, close at hand, along the very same corridor, lay other girls with whom she must
work, with whom she must play, whose lives must of a surety touch her own.

What would happen?  How would she fare?  When the last night of her three-years course arrived,
and she lay as now in this narrow white bed, staring across the darkened room which had been
her home, what would her dreams be then?  What pictures would arise in the gallery of her mind?
What faces smile at her out of the mist?

"Oh, God," sighed Darsie in a soft, involuntary appeal, "help me to be good!"

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

THE AUCTION.

The next day Darsie and Hannah were interviewed by their several coaches, male and female,
received instructions as to their future work, and had the excitement of witnessing the return
of the second and third year girls, whose manner was strikingly different from that of the
modest Freshers.  Dinner that evening was more of an ordeal than ever, with a galaxy of such
assured, not to say aggressive, young women, staring with all their eyes at their new companions,
and, to judge from the expressions on their faces, forming the meanest opinion of their intelligence!

Hannah Vernon was of all the Freshers the least upset by their scrutiny, but then plain Hannah
was proverbially thick-skinned about the opinion of others.

"Let 'em stare if it amuses 'em--I don't mind!  Long time since I've been so much admired,"
she returned composedly to Darsie's indignant whisper.  "Every dog has its day.  Wait till
it's our turn!  I'll wear specs for that day--if I never do again, and glare over them like
our friend in green.  I've been taking notes, and her glare is worth all the rest put together.
I feel sure she sees into my pocket, and knows exactly how much there is in my purse.  Perhaps
she's jealous of you. You're the prettiest girl here--old or new!"

"Oh, am I?  Nice!" cried Darsie, dimpling.  She peered around the tables, examining the faces
of the girls within sight with an appraising eye, compared them with the reflection which looked
back at her out of her own mirror, and felt an agreeable sense of conviction.  There was one
slim, dark-eyed girl with a bright rose flush on her cheeks, as to whose claim she felt a moment's
uncertainty, but when she turned her head--lo, a nose was revealed soaring so unbecomingly
skyward that Darsie breathed again.  Yes! she was the prettiest.  Now if she could just manage
to be the most popular also, and, not the cleverest, of course--that was too much to expect--but
well in the front rank, how agreeable it would be, to be sure!

The dining-hall looked much more cheery tonight, when the long table was surrounded by over
sixty students in their brightly coloured dresses; the buzz of conversation rose steadily throughout
the meal, and by the time that coffee was served curiosity seemed satisfied, for the staring
had come to an end.

"I think you must be Dan Vernon's sister.  May I introduce myself?  I am Helen Ross."  A tall
girl, with brown hair brushed low over her ears, stood beside Hannah's chair, holding out her
hand with an air of assurance which plainly intimated that the mention of her name was expected
to arouse instant recognition.  Hannah, who had never heard it before, and was not skilled
in the art of pretence, stared back in blank surprise.

"Oh-h!  Really?  Yes, I'm Hannah Vernon.  This is my friend Miss Garnett."

Helen Ross nicked her eyelashes at Darsie by way of a bow, but bestowed no spoken greeting.

"Rather beastly, the first day, isn't it?" she drawled, turning to Hannah once more.  "Feel
such a pelican in the wilderness, wandering about, not knowing what to be after next.  Make
me useful, do!  I'd like to be useful.  Told your brother I'd show you the ropes.  Did you
get your milk last night?  Half a pint each is your allowance.  You get it from the pantry
directly after dinner, and take it upstairs for cocoa. Have you discovered your gyp-room yet?"

Hannah stolidly shook her head, whereupon Miss Ross proceeded to further explanations.  The
gyp-room was a species of pantry, one of which was to be found on each corridor, whence cups,
saucers, and other utensils for the preparation of the famous ten o'clock "cocoas" could be
obtained. You helped yourself, don't you know, and you took the things back when you had done
with them, but you didn't wash them up.  The gyp-room owned a presiding dignitary of its own
who was known as the "gyp-woman," who obligingly performed that service.  Then Miss Ross expressed
a wish to see Hannah's room, and the three girls ascended the stairs together, and the two
Freshers stood by meekly while the two-year girl indulged in candid criticism.

"Humph!  Not so bad.  Rather a barn at present, but it'll look all right when you've fixed
it up.  Always takes a few days to settle down, but one lives in one's room so much that it's
worth taking pains.  You can get no end into the coffin, that's one blessing!"

"Coffin!"  Hannah and Darsie jerked at the ominous word, whereupon Miss Ross smiled with complacent
superiority.

"Ah! of course, you don't know that name.  The chest's the `coffin,' and you keep hats in it,
likewise odd boxes, and evening cloaks, and other perishable splendours.  Every one calls them
coffins, so you'll have to get used to it, I'm afraid; and the bureau's a `burry,' and the
screen's a `farce,' and a topply one at that.  You'll have to buy another to take its place.
They never do supply you with decent screens.  By the way, there's an auction on to-night!
Did any one tell you?  That's your chance of picking up the things you want.  It's held in
the Gym. at ten o'clock, and is not bad fun.  I'll come along and take you, if you'd care to go."

"Thanks.  Yes, I'd like to see everything that's going on.  What sort of things are for sale?"

"All sorts of discards that have been left behind by other girls-- screens, bed-covers, curtains,
china flower-pots, chairs, kettles, pictures.  Sometimes there's quite a fine show."

"Sounds attractive!  And who is the auctioneer?"

"A second-year girl--the one who is credited with the greatest amount of wit."

There was a moment's silence while the two Freshers each mentally leaped a year ahead, and
saw herself in this proud and enviable position.

"Who's the one to-night?"

"Margaret France."  Miss Ross's lips curled expressively.  "I hope you won't judge us by her
standard.  She's certainly not the one whom I should have chosen to fill the position!"

Silence again, while the Freshers reflected that they knew very well whom Miss Helen Ross would
have chosen if she had had the chance, and were glad that she hadn't.

"Well, I'll call round about ten.  Make up your fire, and be comfortable.  You're allowed a
scuttle of coals a day, and let me warn you to use it!  If it's not all burnt, keep a few lumps
in a convenient cache--a box under the bed will do.  It comes in handy for another day, and
when it gets really cold you can stoke up at night and have a fire to dress by in the morning.
The authorities don't approve of that--they say it's bad for the stoves.  Personally I consider
myself before any stoves."

She nodded casually and strode from the room, leaving the two friends divided between gratitude
for her kindness and prejudice against her personality.

"Don't like her a bit, do you?"

"Humph.  So-so!  Means well, I think.  Wonder how she knows Dan?  He never mentioned her name."

"Not at all the sort of girl Dan would care for!  Such a bumptious manner.  A good many of
them have, I observe.  Fearfully self-possessed. Perhaps it's a special effort to impress the
Freshers.  She didn't take much notice of me, but I'm coming with you all the same to buy fixings
for my room, and hear the second-year auctioneer.  Call for me when you're ready, like a dear.
I'm off now to read until ten o'clock."

Darsie shut herself in her room, and set to work at her burry with all the ardour of a beginner,
so that the hour and a half passed like a flash, and it seemed as if she had scarcely begun
before Hannah's solid bang sounded at the door, and she went out into the corridor to follow
Helen Ross to the Gym.

The auction had already begun, and the auctioneer, a fresh-looking girl with grey eyes planted
extraordinarily far apart, was engaged in extolling the excellencies of an aged kettle to a
laughing circle of girls.  She wore a black dress cut square at the neck, and a rose- coloured
ribbon twined round her head.  She held out the kettle at the length of a bare white arm, and
raised her clear voice in delightful imitation of the professional wheedle.

"Friends and Freshers!  We now come to Lot Three, one of the most striking and interesting
on the catalogue.  A kettle, ladies, is always a useful article, but this is no ordinary kettle.
We have it on unimpeachable authority that this kettle was the kettle in residence at the establishment
of our late colleague Miss Constantia Lawson, the Senior Classic of her year!  The kettle of
a Senior Classic, Freshers! The kettle which has ministered to her refreshment, which has been,
in the language of the poem, the fount of her inspiration!  What price shall I say, ladies,
for the kettle of a Senior Classic?  Sixpence!  Did somebody say sixpence!  For the kettle
of a Senior Classic! Eightpence!  Thank you, madam.  For the kettle of a-- What advance on
eightpence?  Freshers would do well to consider this opportunity before it is too late.  What
an--an inebriating effect, if I may use the word without offence to the late lamented poet,
would be added to the cup that cheers by the thought that the same handle, the same spout,
the same--er--er--furry deposit in the inside, have ministered to the refreshment of one of
the master spirits of our day!  Going at eightpence--eightpence-halfpenny--I thank you, madam!
At tenpence!  No advance on tenpence?  Going--going--gone!"

The hammer descended with a rap, the auctioneer leaned back with an air of exhaustion, and
handed the kettle to her clerk, in blue silk and crystal beads.

"Lady to the right.  Tell the lady, Joshua, that the small hole in the bottom can easily be
soldered by an obliging ironmonger, or, if she prefers, she can hang the kettle on the wall
as an object of vertu!"

Peals of laughter greeted this tragic disclosure.  The lady to the right refused for some minutes
to hand over her tenpence, but finally succumbed to the feeling of the meeting, when a crumpled
cotton bed- cover was next produced for sale.

"Lot Four.  Handsome Oriental bedspread--design of peacocks, vultures, and pear-trees, in gorgeous
colourings.  Encircling border on a background of blizzard white, and corner pieces complete.
Eight feet by three.  Joshua! carry the bedspread round and allow the ladies to examine it
for themselves.  It is excessively hurtful to our feelings when purchasers imply that deception
has been practised in order to induce them to purchase our goods.  Show the ladies the spread!
Pure cotton, ladies.  Fast colours.  Design by Alma Tadema, in his happiest mood.  You could
not possibly purchase such a spread in any establishment, ladies, under the sum of two-and-six.
Fine Oriental goods, warranted to impart an air of opulence to the humblest bedstead. Any Fresher
wishing to give the last touch of costly elegance to her room should not neglect this opportunity.
What am I to say, ladies, for this handsome spread?  Sixpence again!  Thank you, madam!  Sixpences
seem in the ascendant to-night.  Let us hope the collections on Sunday next will benefit from
the ensuing dearth.  Ninepence!  At ninepence. Pardon, madam?  The lady in the eyeglasses wishes
to make a remark, Joshua.  The lady in the eyeglasses remarks that one side of the spread has
been torn.  The lady is evidently unaware that that fact is a proof positive of the authenticity
of the spread.  No Eastern article, as all travellers are aware, is ever even at both sides."
Another burst of laughter greeted this point.  The auctioneer showed her pretty white teeth
in a complacent smile, her wide grey eyes roved round the room, and met Darsie's eyes raised
to her in beaming admiration.

"One-and-six did you say, madam?" she cried instantly.  "Did I understand you to say one-and-six?
The opportunity will never occur again.  At one-and-six for the lady in violet.  Take the name
and address if you please, Joshua."  And Darsie, with a shrug and a laugh, paid out her one-and-six,
and received in return the blizzard-white cover, ornamented with a roughly mended tear all
along one side.

The next articles offered for sale were framed pictures of various sizes which had evidently
not been considered worth the trouble of removing. Water-colour sketches by 'prentice hands,
faded photographs, or pretty- pretty prints evidently torn from the pages of magazines.  The
auctioneer exerted all the blandishments to induce the Freshers to purchase these masterpieces,
and deplored their scant response with pathetic reproaches.

"No bids for this tasty little picture?  Ladies, ladies, this is a great mistake!  In the midst
of your arduous brain toil, what could be more soothing and refreshing than to gaze upon this
charming pastoral scene?  This azure earth, this verdant sky, this lovely maid who combined
in her person all the simpering charms of youth, and never, for one misguided moment, troubled
her ochre head over the acquirement of that higher knowledge which, as we all know, is the
proud prerogative of man!  What price shall I say for `The Maiden's Dream'?  No bids!  Put
it down if you please, Joshua.  We have no art collectors with us to- night.  Let me have the
Botticelli for a change."

The clerk in blue silk handed up another picture in a rickety Oxford frame, at which the auctioneer
gazed rapturously for several moments before turning it towards her audience.

