CHAP. 10. Measures of defence, Fort M'Intosh erected, exposed situation, commencement of hostilities,
Attack on Harbert's blockhouse, Murder at Morgan's on Cheat, Of Lowther and Hughes, Indians
appear before Fort at the point, Decoy Lieut. Moore into an ambuscade, a larger army visits
Fort, stratagem to draw out the garrison, Prudence and precaution of capt. M'Kee. Fort closely
besieged, Siege raised, Heroic adventure of Prior and Hammond to save Greenbrier, Attack on
Donnelly's Fort, Dick Pointer, Affair at West's Fort, Successful artifice of Hustead, Affair
at Cobern's fort, at Strader's, Murder of Stephen Washburn, captivity, &c. of James, Projected
invasion of Indian country, Col. Clarke takes Kaskaskias and other towns, Fort Lawrens erected
by Gen. M'Intosh and garrisoned. 236-256.

CHAP. 11. Gov. Hamilton marches to St. Vincent--critical situation of col. Clarke, his daring
expedition against Hamilton, condition of Fort Lawren's, Successful stratagem of Indians there,
Gen. M'Intosh arrives with an army, Fort evacuated, Transactions in Kentucky, captivity of
Boone, his escape and expedition against Paint creek town, Indian [iii] army under Du Quesne
appear before Boone's fort, politic conduct of Boone, Fort assaulted, Assailants repulsed,
Expedition against Chilicothe towns under Bowman, Its failure, Kentucky increases rapidly in
population. 257-274.

CHAP. 12. Hacker's creek settlement breaks up, Alarm of Indians near Pricket's fort, Stephen
and Sarah Morgan sent to farm, Dream and anxiety of their father, His fearful encounter with
two Indians, Kills both, Heroism of Mrs. Bozarth, Murders on Snow creek, captivity of Leonard
Schoolcraft, Indians surprize Martin's fort, destruction there, Irruptions into Tygart's valley,
Indians attack the house of Samuel Cottrail, Murder of John Schoolcraft's family, Projected
campaign of British and Indians, Indians again in Tygart's Valley, mischief there, West's fort
invested, Hazardous adventure of Jesse Hughs to obtain assistance, Skirmish between whites
and savages, coolness and intrepidity of Jerry Curl, Austin Schoolcraft killed and his niece
taken prisoner, Murder of Owens and Judkins, of Sims, Small Pox terrifies Indians, Transactions
in Greenbrier, Murder of Baker and others, last outrage in that country. 275-293

CHAP. 13. Operations of combined army of British and Indians, Surrender of Ruddle's Station,
Outrages of savages there, Col. Byrd enabled to restrain them, Martin's station surrenders,
Byrd returns to the Indian towns, Escape of Hinkstone, Invasion of North Western Virginia,
Plan of campaign, Indians discovered near Wheeling, Take prisoners, Alarmed for their own safety,
kill their prisoners and retire, Expedition under Col. Broadhead, against the Munsies, against
Coshocton, excesses of the whites there, Expedition under Gen. Clarke against Chilicothe and
Piqua, Battle at Piqua, Indian depredations in Virginia, murder of capt. Thomas and family,
of Schoolcraft, Manear, and others, Destruction of Leading creek settlement, aggressors overtaken
by a party under Col. Lowther, Affair of Indian creek, murder of Mrs. Furrenash, Williamson's
first expedition against Moravian Indians, Prisoners taken sent to Fort Pitt, Set at liberty,
Their settlements broken up by Wyandotts. 294-317.

CHAP. 14. The murder of Monteur and his family, others taken prisoners, Second expedition of
Williamson against Moravians, its success and the savage conduct of the whites, Expedition
under Crawford, his defeat--Is taken prisoner and burned; captivity and escape of Doctor Knight,
of Slover; Death of Mills--Signal achievement of Lewis Whitsel. 318-339.

CHAP. 15. Murder of White, Dorman and wife taken prisoners; Inhabitants on Buckhannon evacuate
the fort, attacked by Indians on their way to the Valley; Whites visiting [iv] Buckhannon settlement
discovered and watched by Indians--conduct of George Jackson to obtain aid, Stalnaker killed,
Indians cross Alleghany--miss Gregg killed by Dorman, murder of mrs. Pindall, of Charles Washburn,
of Arnold and Richards--Daring conduct of Elias Hughes--murder of Corbly's family--Grand council
of Indians at Chillicothe, Its determinations; Indian army enters Kentucky; Affair at Bryants
station; Battle of Blue Licks--Expedition under Gen. Clarke, Attack on Wheeling, Attempt to
demolish the fort with a wooden cannon, Signal exploit of Elizabeth Zane, Noble conduct of
Francis Duke, Indians withdraw, Attack on Rives [Rice's] Fort, Encounter of Poe with two Indians.
340-364.

CHAP. 16. Peace with G. Britain, War continued by Indians--Operations in N. W. Virginia--murder
of Daniel Radcliff, Attack on Cunninghams upon Bingamon, murders there; murders in Tazewell,
of Davison, of Moore, mrs. Moore and seven children taken prisoners, their fate--murder of
Ice, &c. Levi Morgan encounters two Indians, Indians steal horses on West Fork, pursued and
punished by col. Lowther--murder of the Wests on Hacker's creek, Remarkable recovery of J.
Hacker's daughter--murder of the Johnsons on Ten-mile creek, At Macks, Artifice of John Sims.
365-383.

CHAP. 17. Rapid increase of population of Kentucky, operations there--Preparations of the general
Government to carry on the war in the Indian country, Settlement of Marietta, Of Cincinatti,
Fort Washington erected, Settlement of Duck creek, Big Bottom and Wolf creeks--Harmar's campaign,
murder of whites on Big Bottom, murder of John Bush--Affair at Hansucker's on Dunkard--murder
of Carpenter and others and escape of Jesse Hughes--campaign under Gen. St. Clair--Attack at
Merrill's, Heroic conduct of mrs. Merrill, Signal success of expedition under Gen. Scott. 384-407.

CHAP. 18. Indians visit Hacker's creek--murder of the Waggoners and captivity of others--murder
of Neal and Triplet, major Truman and col. Hardin killed, Greater preparations made by General
Government, John and Henry Johnson, Attack on the hunting camp of Isaac Zane, Noble conduct
of Zane--Treatment of Indian prisoners, Fort Recovery erected, Escape of Joseph Cox--murder
of miss Runyan and attack on Carder's, Indians kill and make prisoners the Cozads, Affair at
Joseph Kanaan's, Progress of army under Gen. Wayne, Indians attack and defeat detachment under
M'Mahon, battle of Au Glaize and victory of General Wayne, Affair at Bozarth's on Buckhannon--Treaty
of Greenville. 408-430.

[3] INTRODUCTION.

CHAPTER I.

It is highly probable that the continent of America was known to the Ancient Carthaginians,
and that it was the great island Atalantis, of which mention is made by Plato, who represents
it as larger than Asia and Africa. The Carthaginians were a maritime people, and it is known
that they extended their discoveries beyond the narrow sphere which had hitherto limited the
enterprise of the mariner. And although Plato represents Atalantis as having been swallowed
by an earthquake, and all knowledge of the new continent, if any such ever existed, was entirely
lost, still it is by no means improbable, that it had been visited by some of the inhabitants
of the old world, prior to its discovery by Columbus in 1492. The manner of this discovery
is well known, as is also the fact that Americo Vespucci, a Florentine, under the authority
of Emmanuel king of Portugal, in sailing as far as Brazil discovered the main land and gave
name to America.

These discoveries gave additional excitement to the adventurous spirit which distinguished
those times, and the flattering reports made of the country which they had visited, inspired
the different nations of Europe, with the desire of reaping the rich harvest, which the enlightened
and enterprising mind of Columbus, had unfolded to their view. Accordingly, as early as March
1496, (less than two years after the discovery by Columbus) a commission was granted by Henry
VII king of England, to John Cabot and his three sons, empowering them to sail under the English
banner in quest of new discoveries, and in the event of their success to take possession, in
the name of the king of England, of the countries thus discovered and not inhabited by Christian
people.

The expedition contemplated in this commission was never carried into effect. But in May 1498
Cabot with his son Sebastian, embarked on a voyage to attain the desired object, and succeeded
in his design so far as to effect a discovery of [4] North America, and although he sailed
along the coast from Labrador to Virginia, yet it does not now appear that he made any attempt
either at settlement or conquest.

This is said to have been the first discovery ever made of that portion of our continent which
extends from the Gulph of Mexico to the North pole; and to this discovery the English trace
their title to that part of it, subsequently reduced into possession by them.[1]

As many of the evils endured by the inhabitants of the western part of Virginia, resulted from
a contest between England and France, as to the validity of their respective claims to portions
of the newly discovered country, it may not be amiss to take a general view of the discoveries
and settlements effected by each of those powers.

After the expedition of Cabot, no attempt on the part of England, to acquire territory in America,
seems to have been made until the year 1558. In this year letters patent were issued by Queen
Elizabeth, empowering Sir Humphrey Gilbert to "discover and take possession of such remote,
heathen, and barbarous lands, as were not actually possessed by any christian prince or people."
Two expeditions, conducted by this gentleman terminated unfavorably. Nothing was done by him
towards the accomplishment of the objects in view, more than the taking possession of the island
of New Foundland in the name of the English Queen.

In 1584 a similar patent was granted to Sir Walter Raleigh, under whose auspices was discovered
the country south of Virginia. In April of that year he dispatched two vessels under the command
of Amidas and Barlow, for the purpose of visiting, and obtaining such a knowledge of the country
which he proposed to colonize, as would facilitate the attainment of his object. In their voyage
they approached the North American continent towards the Gulph of Florida, and sailing northwardly
touched at an island situate on the inlet into Pamlico sound, in the state of North Carolina.
To this island they gave the name of Wocoken, and proceeding from thence reached Roanoke near
the mouth of Albemarle sound. After having remained here some weeks, and obtained from the
natives the best information which they could impart concerning the country, Amidas and Barlow
returned to England.

In the succeeding year Sir Walter had fitted out a squadron of seven ships, the command of
which he gave to Sir Richard [5] Grenville. On board of this squadron were passengers, arms,
ammunition and provisions for a settlement. He touched at the islands of Wocoken and Roanoke,
which had been visited by Amidas and Barlow, and leaving a colony of one hundred and eight
persons in the island of Roanoke, he returned to England. These colonists, after having remained
about twelve months and explored the adjacent country, became so discouraged and exhausted
by fatigue and famine, that they abandoned the country. Sir Richard Grenville returning shortly
afterwards to America, and not being able to find them, and at a loss to conjecture their fate,
left in the island another small party of settlers and again set sail for England.

The flattering description which was given of the country, by those who had visited it, so
pleased Queen Elizabeth, that she gave to it the name of Virginia, as a memorial that it had
been discovered in the reign of a Virgin Queen.

Other inefficient attempts were afterwards made to colonize North America during the reign
of Elizabeth, but it was not 'till the year 1607, that a colony was permanently planted there.
In December of the preceding year a small vessel and two barks, under the command of captain
Newport, and having on board one hundred and five men, destined to remain, left England. In
April they were driven by a storm into Chesapeak bay, and after a fruitless attempt to land
at Cape Henry, sailed up the Powhatan (since called James) River, and on the 13th of May 1607,
debarked on the north side of the river at a place to which they gave the name of Jamestown.
From this period the country continued in the occupancy of the whites, and remained subject
to the crown of Great Britain until the war of the revolution. Conflicting charters, granted
to other corporations, afterwards narrowed her limits; that she has been since reduced to her
present comparatively small extent of territory, is attributable exclusively [6] to the almost
suicidal liberality of Virginia herself.

On the part of France, voyages for the discovery and colonization of North America were nearly
contemporaneous with those made by England for like objects. As early as the year 1540, a commission
was issued by Francis 1st for the establishment of Canada.[2] In 1608, a French fleet, under
the command of Admiral Champlaine, arrived in the St. Lawrence and founded the city of Quebec.
So successful were her attempts to colonize that province, that, notwithstanding its proximity
to the English colonies, and the fact that a Spanish sailor had previously entered the St.
Lawrence and established a port at the mouth of Grand river--neither of those powers seriously
contested the right of France to its possession.--Yet it was frequently the theatre of war;
and as early as 1629 was subdued by England. By the treaty of St. Germains in 1632 it was restored
to France, as was also the then province of Acadie, now known as Nova Scotia. There is no doubt
but that this latter province was, by priority of settlement, the property of France, but its
principal town having been repeatedly reduced to possession by the English, it was ceded to
them by the treaty of Utrecht in 1713.

To the country bordering the Mississippi river, and its tributary streams, a claim was made
by England, France and Spain. The claim of England (based on the discovery by the Cabots of
the eastern shore of the United States,) included all the country between the parallels of
latitude within which the Atlantic shore was explored, extending westwardly to the Pacific
ocean--a zone athwart the continent between the thirtieth and forty-eighth degrees of North
latitude.

From the facility with which the French gained the good will and friendly alliance of the Natives
in Canada, by intermarrying with, and assimilating themselves to the habits and inclinations
of, these children of the forest, an intimacy arose which induced the Indians to impart freely
to the French their knowledge of the interior country. Among other things information was communicated
to them, of the fact that farther on there was a river of great size and immense length, which
pursued a course opposite to that of the St. Lawrence, and emptied itself into an unknown sea.
It was conjectured that it must necessarily flow either into the Gulph of Mexico, or the South
Sea; and in 1673 Marquette and Joliet, French missionaries, together with five other men, commenced
a journey [7] from Quebec to ascertain the fact and examine the country bordering its shores.

From lake Michigan they proceeded up the Fox river nearly to its source; thence to Ouisconsin;
down it to the Mississippi, in which river they sailed as far as to about the thirty-third
degree of north latitude. From this point they returned through the Illinois country to Canada.

At the period of this discovery M. de La Salle, a Frenchman of enterprise, courage and talents
but without fortune, was commandant of fort Frontignac. Pleased with the description given
by Marquette and Joliet, of the country which they had visited, he formed the determination
of examining it himself, and for this purpose left Canada in the close of the summer of 1679,
in company with father Louis Hennepin and some others.[3] On the Illinois he erected fort Crevecoeur,
where he remained during the winter, and instructing father Hennepin, in his absence to ascend
the Mississippi to its sources, returned to Canada. M. de La Salle subsequently visited this
country, and establishing the villages of Cahokia and Kaskaskia, left them under the command
of M. de Tonti, and going back to Canada, proceeded from thence to France to procure the co-operation
of the Ministry in effecting a settlement of the valley of the Mississippi. He succeeded in
impressing on the minds of the French Ministry, the great benefits which would result from
its colonization, and was the first to suggest the propriety of connecting the settlements
on the Mississippi with those in Canada by a cordon of forts; a measure which was subsequently
attempted to be carried into effect.

With the aid afforded him by the government of France, he was enabled to prepare an expedition
to accomplish his object, and sailing in 1684 for the mouth of the Mississippi, steered too
far westward and landed in the province of Texas, and on the banks of the river Guadaloupe.
Every exertion which a brave and prudent man could make to effect the security of his little
colony, and conduct them to the settlement in Illinois, was fruitlessly made by him. In reward
for all his toil and care he was basely assassinated; the remnant of the party whom he was
conducting through the wilderness, finally reached the Arkansas, where was a settlement of
French emigrants from Canada. The colonists left by him at the bay of St. Bernard were mostly
murdered by the natives, the remainder were carried away by the Spaniards in 1689.

[8] Other attempts made by the French to colonize the Mississippi near the Gulph of Mexico,
were for some time unavailing. In an expedition for that purpose, conducted by M. Ibberville,
a suit of armor on which was inscribed Ferdinand de Soto, was found in the possession of some
Indians. In the year 1717 the spot, on which New Orleans now stands, was selected as the centre
of the settlements, then first made in Louisiana, and the country continued in the possession
of France until 1763. By the treaty of Paris in that year, she ceded to Great Britain, together
with Canada her possessions east of the Mississippi, excepting only the island of New Orleans--this
and her territory on the west bank of that river were transferred to Spain.

The title of Spain to the valley of the Mississippi, if made to depend on priority of discovery,
would perhaps, to say the least, be as good as that of either of the other powers. Ferdinand
de Soto, governor of Cuba, was most probably the first white man who saw that majestic stream.

The Spaniards had early visited and given name to Florida. In 1528 Pamphilo de Narvaez obtained
a grant of it, and fitting out an armament, proceeded with four or five hundred men to explore
and settle the country. He marched to the Indian village of Appalachas, when he was attacked
and defeated by the natives. The most of those who escaped death from the hands of the savages,
perished in a storm, by which they were overtaken on their voyage home. Narvaez himself perished
in the wreck, and was succeeded in his attempt at colonization by de Soto.

Ferdinand de Soto, then governor of Cuba, was a man of chivalrous and enterprising spirit,
and of cool, deliberate courage. In his expedition to Florida, although attacked by the Indians,
immediately on his landing, yet, rather seeking than shunning danger, he penetrated the interior,
and crossing the Mississippi, sickened and died on Red river. So frequent and signal had been
the victories which he had obtained over the Indians, that his name alone had become an object
of terror to them; and his followers, at once to preserve his remains from violation, and prevent
the natives from acquiring a knowledge of his death, enclosed his body in a hollow tree, sunk
it in the Red river and returned to Florida.

Thus, it is said, were different parts of this continent discovered; and by virtue of the settlements
thus effected, by [9] those three great powers of Europe, the greater portion of it was claimed
as belonging to them respectively, in utter disregard of the rights of the Aborigines. And
while the historian records the colonization of America as an event tending to meliorate the
condition of Europe, and as having extended the blessings of civil and religious liberty, humanity
must drop the tear of regret, that it has likewise forced the natives of the new, and the inhabitants
of a portion of the old world, to drink so deeply from the cup of bitterness.

The cruelties which have been exercised on the Aborigines of America, the wrong and outrage
heaped on them from the days of Montezuma and Guatimozin, to the present period, while they
excite sympathy for their sufferings, should extenuate, if not justify the bloody deeds, which
revenge prompted the untutored savages to commit. Driven as they were from the lands of which
they were the rightful proprietors--Yielding to encroachment after encroachment 'till forced
to apprehend their utter annihilation--Witnessing the destruction of their villages, the prostration
of their towns and the sacking of cities adorned with splendid magnificence, who can feel surprised
at any attempt which they might make to rid the country of its invaders. Who, but must applaud
the spirit which prompted them, when they beheld their prince a captive, the blood of their
nobles staining the earth with its crimson dye, and the Gods of their adoration scoffed and
derided, to aim at the destruction of their oppressors.--When Mexico, "with her tiara of proud
towers," became the theatre in which foreigners were to revel in rapine and in murder, who
can be astonished that the valley of Otumba resounded with the cry of "Victory or Death?" And
yet, resistance on their part, served but as a pretext for a war of extermination; waged too,
with a ferocity, from the recollection of which the human mind involuntarily revolts, and with
a success which has forever blotted from the book of national existence, once powerful and
happy tribes.

But they did not suffer alone. As if to fill the cup of oppression to the brim, another portion
of the human family were reduced to abject bondage, and made the unwilling cultivators of those
lands, of which the Indians had been dispossessed. Soon after the settlement of North America
was commenced, the negroes of Africa became an article of commerce, and from subsequent importations
and natural [10] increase have become so numerous as to excite the liveliest apprehensions
in the bosom of every friend to this country. 

Like the sculpture of the Quattrocento its objections to the fourteenth century, or borrowed
from the ancient world, it is It also characteristic of the same, that they in their motives
and even very modest is limited and every search for new subjects to avoid: their aim is rather
straight fact, the old to give a new form. In the sacred artwork is hardly a significant change make
against the previous designated time. The figures of Christ and Mary, the apostles and adopted evangelists,
the individual saints in the character and forms and held, in which the times of ancient dying
art for the new faith established and how they had the Trecento, including Giotto, developed.
If a Artists, especially when a sculptor is a deviation allowed is done, it regularly from
purely artistic considerations. Where, as in Florence, the local consciousness particularly strong
pronounced, individual saints or biblical heroes presented with fondness and remodeled as a kind
of emanation of the State to national heroes, so in Florence John Baptist, which replaced
the old city of Saint S. Zenobius all, St. George and David, and the freedom heroine Judith. In general,
the detention outweigh the traditional and religious awe so much naturalism of the time, that the
representation of the nude the holy motives remain almost banished. Where, exceptionally, as
in the Baptist and the Magdalene, the subject of the representation of the nude figure suggested,
drew the artist before it, a to create austere character figure whose pelts of animal skins or hides
from their own hair are. Only the youth figure of St. Francis. Sebastian and, very occasionally,
even the figures of Adam and Eve are used by some artists for exhibition teen beautiful body
been. The only general exception is now the strongest evidence for the chaste way of understanding
This realistic art: the formation of the naked child. The Christ child for staying in undressed
to be represented, as are the children angels. In the representation of the child, in of the art of the
time, and especially the plastic, with all the naivete and freshness of life was made, has
the Quattro Cento, under peculiar interaction of older Christian and antique models, created
their own type of exception, the putto. In an age when the Child at first stimulates the consciousness
of their own power and personality, is one of the putto peculiar mixture of Christian angels
and antique genius, a kind-hearted children goblin accompanied by a guardian angel of the people
in his life and ways to guard his tomb holds, which is a good spirit of the workshop and helping
artists everywhere adorning the side, the teasing and joking drives are harmless game, even in
the most serious motives Sacred history, in which she, albeit subordinate - in the border
- in a sense will serve to reconcile with the tragic content.

The religious and biblical themes by the allegory of the Church in Art of the Middle Ages under
the influence of scholasticism occupied an important place in the
Sculpture of the Quattrocento more limited application, while a more
liberal arts education.

This owes in addition to the naturalistic conception of time, above all, to the terminal the allegory
of the ancient world and continuing the same. Among the ecclesiastical virtues: faith, Love,
hope, joined to the secular virtues: strength, prudence, moderation, and with these are occasionally
found even in science equal rank. How is this so also be borrowed from the ancient allegorical
figures, like the glory, happiness, spring etc., as a beautiful young female characters formed,
identified only by their attributes are, the monstrous forms which the scholastic Deutelsucht
of Trecento art forced upon, the healthy and plastic sense of the Quattrocento were repugnant.

The
worship of the ancient world and aroused the same degree in the sculptors' interest of the fabrics
from ancient mythology and history. As the great art almost exclusively was limited to religious
duties, it was employed for the private cabaret, in which the joy could be found in such substances
Bethätigung full, in particular plastic the pictorial decoration
of small household appliances, such as inkwells, candlesticks, sword
handles, Brooches, boxes, etc., which we today usually only in its
individual parts, the so-called Plaques, have been preserved, and
also the reverse of the medals and cameos.

The motives are the most famous Roman classics, especially Ovid and Livy borrowed and, depending
on the determination of the object selected with a fine relationship: to find the sword handles
We regularly exploits of the legendary Roman hero Hercules, the work or similar representations,
the clasps Venus and Cupid, the love affairs of gods and the like

The strong naturalistic conception of the Quattrocento could from the start to the training close
of the genre in the plastic, so true to nature and even some genre-like motifs but are well conceived,
so have yet religious awe and sense a monumental development the plastic in that direction almost
completely retained. Only in the representation of the child, in the "Cherub," has the XV. Century
in Italy created a real genre figure, and just this exception is a testament to the taste and sense of style
this time, after which the top is (see p. 39) already mentioned.

One in name of unknown successor Donatello's modeled even groups of children in the rough design and
considers the peasant genre the later Dutch yield very little. Only an artist of Italy, Guido
Mazzoni in Modena, away from the major art centers, is in his realism so far that he regularly
his biblical motifs to coarse folk scenes converted from its surroundings, its famous colored
Thongruppen the worship of the child and the Pieta are obviously counterfeit the religious
folk drama of the time. Just Such exceptions make the taste and the great sense of Italian
art in general in order to appear sharper light.

So unassuming and conservative, the sculpture of the Quattrocento in the artwork is as varied
and new it is, a fourteenth-over, the material in which it carries out its statues, each accessible
and useful material in which an artistic execution was possible, by the sculptors of the fifteenth.
Cent was used, and the choice of the same but is often taken after the execution of the task and
regularly with a fine sense of style to the Character of the substance has been made accordingly.

The
most common and preferred material for nobler tasks is still the
marble.

Since the time of Niccolo Pisano heavily exploited quarries of Carrara provided a Abundance of the
most beautiful marble, the cold staining, the Italian artist (probably to give by letting in hot
wax) to a warm yellow tone understood. The marble was taken as such for the phenomenon, only
a few ornaments on the robes, the halos and hair were still gold and the background of the relief,
if he were not a landscape or architectural, was regularly given a gray-blue color, richer painting
of the Marble is found only exceptionally and for decorative purposes.

For those with the name of the Architecture working the marble sculpture is often replaced
by less expensive stone: the Venetian and in the Duchy of Urbino by the fine Italian limestone
(mostly from Venice to Istria related and then as pietra d'Istria), whether in Florence by the
fine-grained greenish-gray Sandstone from the Florence area (under the name pietra serena known).

The
processing of the marble, as also generally used as a replacement for entering lower Stones was done almost
exclusively through a variety of chisels. The drill was indeed applied next, but you did not understand
how in ancient times, also lead to the same length; to make such as a deep line you just put
a hole next to the other and chiseled then the small partitions on (compare the marble statue
of Michelangelo Giovannino No. 209). By this way, the various treatment works of antiquity and the Quattrocento
in doubt, keep apart most easily. The processing of fine Limestone could not have caused the great
seal and softness of it when he broke fresh was in an advanced stage of working with knives or knife-like
instruments , Which made an extraordinary sharpness of the execution
was possible (see the bust Urbin the princess, no. 62A, and the pilasters
of the Scuola di San Giovanni in Venice No. 169 and 170).

The polish that received the marble sculptures on a regular basis was not long as strong as in the
fourteenth century or late antiquity, but it was reinforced in an action by the tint, which
received the marble to the end.

New, but not as material, but the extent and in the manner of its use is the bronze. After the work of
the Byzantine artist was the Bronzethür of Andrea Pisano The first isolated test of a bronze
casting in the Great was, in the XV. Century won the same such a meaning, and thus gradually such
an artistic education, that the Bronze apparently was considered as the grandest monuments of any
kind of plastic material. Initially limited to the casting of reliefs, the bronze sculpture was
soon on statues Busts and intimate works of art extended, and while in the first half of the century
Statuettes had to be cast before fully reach many fonts so insufficient that the Ciselierung had
a prominent part in the completion of the bronzes, the later Bronzes already thin and lightweight,
with small sculptures, often à cire perdue cast and left all unciseliert. The castings seem mostly
to have been made on wax models.

The patina was because the buyer did not want to wait years, until the influence of the air
Patina, formed regularly produced artificially by the bronze with a blackish pitch-like mass was
covered, which has been polished likely. As time went from this by touching the heights, here was
then a natural patina that related to the artificial patina in the depths of her blunt blackish
clay is a fine scenic effect.

The joy of the plastic and the need to equip all public buildings with sculptures and even to
decorate the homes that had the training of expensive bronze sculpture caused, but it was also
the reason that the artists themselves for cheap had to look around materials to meet the needs of
the less well-off also to. Therefore we see now is a very large number of sculptures in wood
and particular run in clay, carved statues and single, exceptionally busts in Wood, richly painted
and gilded, we find almost only in special timber-rich areas, such as in the Apennine Mountains
and in northern Italy, especially on the slopes of the Alps and in the neighborhood same. Here
clearly the influence of the neighboring German art has influenced determining. Far more important,
especially for the artistic development of Italian sculpture, The sculpture is made in clay.
During the fourteenth century only very exceptionally for the clay sculptural purposes has been
used to win the same at the very beginning of the fifteenth century
a great importance as visual means of representation.

And not entirely alone in the stone-poor areas, as in Lombardy or the territory of Bologna and Ferrara:
straight Florence guided the transition from the fourteenth century in the new time, a number of sculptors
one which model primarily in clay and smaller churches and chapels, private altars and lintels,
with Madonna reliefs, sometimes the entire wall decoration of churches or Grave monuments,
and the tabernacle in the manufacture of clay roads. Was undoubtedly the cheapness and speed
of production of the reason for the choice of the material so identified the Florentine sculptor
soon the advantage which the clay as the easiest means for direct and genuine expression of
the artistic intention of offering, they used same therefore regularly for the production of small
sketches or models that the Place of the drawings were executed, according to which had worked the
Trecento regularly. Such designs in the Berlin collection include the relief of the Entombment
of Christ by Verrocchio (No. 97A) and Mary in limbo by B. da Majano (No. 589D). After the Thonmodellen
in the workshop often done by students or assistants, the marble and bronze sculptures; a division
of labor, as reflected particularly in Florence by the scope of some monuments out and formed
the accumulation of orders to the more famous artists of necessity. Such Models whose designs in
marble or bronze are still standing, are in our collection the bust of Filippo Strozzi by
B. da Majano (No. 85, marble version in the Louvre), the Tondo with the worship of A. Rossellino
(No. 64, marble run in the Bargello) and the relief of the Madonna of Bellano (No. 156A, bronze
finish at the Tomb De Castro S. Servi at Padua). Various other Thonarbeiten the collection
are undoubtedly also worked as models, if the monuments for which they were intended to demonstrate
not leave or ever came to execution.

All these were painted Thonbildwerke regularly, even the most models and sketches, as the same
store for their artistic value in the studios or to other artists were awarded, the natural color
of the fired clay but the color sense of the time were reluctant. The painting was executed in water
colors, and quite naturalistic, as in a Paintings. The colors were not usually applied directly
to the clay, but is overlaid same before, as the board for paintings, with a thin layer of chalk,
because on this Colors and gilding adhere better. Since some of these sculptures, as Straßentabernakel,
bezels, Friese and others, were intended to establish in the open air, so they gave the colors of
resistance against the weather, a lacquer coating, as he (112A No.), for example, still in the relief
of the Madonna is received. Such an overlay could only briefly the influence of water and Resist
sun, so Luca della Robbia came upon the idea of ​​his Thonskulpturen in the same to coat type as
the Thongefäße with a glaze. His experiments had the best success and found the most general applause
so that circumstances linked to an industry from which a century has long exercised in the
family of that artist through several generations. Florence and the dependent part of Florence
in central Italy owes them a very great Number of altars, tabernacles,
bezels, emblems, Friesen, exceptionally free characters, fonts etc.,
which are mostly preserved in place.

The Thonmodell was burned slightly (For larger monuments in several pieces), then painted
and after coating with a layer of enamel for the second time put into the fire. The painting was
(and indeed from the start even at Luca itself) either entirely in color, then the colors were
on white, blue, green, yellow, purple and black limited, or the figures were, in imitation
of marble, white left, then received only the background in a blue clay reliefs and ornaments,
halos and patterns were often gilded. The framing is usually made from plastic, colored held
fruit or flower wreaths of stylish arrangement, but the finest naturalistic Implementation.

The need for works of art for the home and worship the popularity of plastic, especially in
Florence, in addition to the various Thonbildwerken another kind of sculptures produced, the
stucco sculptures, mainly stucco reliefs. Counter to the output of the Trecento Florentine artists
had made few casts for their work in marble or stone and brought to full livery in the trade.
Since the beginning of the Quattrocento until towards the end of the century such copies for smaller
original sculptures produced in large quantities. In that instead of the Madonna image in the
fourteenth century now Madonna relief more and more devotional image was the home of the Florentine
citizen who came some of these stucco reliefs in hundreds of copies in the audience. Because of the
insignificance and worthlessness of the material is of course only a small part of it come down
to us and the resulting far the majority of dirt and overwriting is in effect more or less seriously
affected. But also make this and all the best services Complete the picture of each Florentine
artist, for many works of them, the originals were destroyed or lost, are we in such a stucco
replicas obtained. This stucco sculptures were regularly produced by molding, and that from
a essentially different from our gypsum mixture of marble dust and more or less coarse Sand,
a mixture that made this work to some degree weather resistant and allowed an artistic painting.
Only in exceptional cases, the piece also like Thon modeled and worked with knives, like the stucco
bust of a young girl Desiderio (No. 62 G) and the Florentine Madonna
relief (No. 63) show.

Those casts were in the Rule over the originals, but sometimes made about the models, and most are in
the workshop of the artist himself in this way the expensive originals were in Marble or bronze in
numerous copies in a very low price on all hands to come. The independent artistic value of the stucco
sculptures depends on their painting. Very were often the same course, only hand-painted factory of
painters, but was often The painting executed with great finesse, be it by the artist, the original
was manufactured, or by his friend, the painter. Regularly was this painting, as Thonbildwerken in
a complete and full-color, and only in exceptional cases it mimics the Marble (see Rossellino's
Madonna No. 72) or a bronze color after (see Luca's Madonna relief No. 114).

As in the fourteenth century, it also plays in the Quattrocento the Forged an important role
in the plastic, but had a number of the most accomplished sculptors trained at this time Goldsmithing
or excellent self as goldsmiths active. Apart from occasional jobs of Churches on completion
of that great silver altar with little relief and driven individual figures, as in Florence and Pistoia
are still there, had the goldsmith in particular the growing Making a claim to the artistic
design of jewelry and small home Devices to satisfy. Kußtäfelchen for worship in the home,
jewelry boxes of all kinds, inkwells, Chandeliers and lamps, hat-clasps, Schwertknäufe, closing, and
the like were in gold, silver or precious stones, especially produced in rock crystal and the
monumental sense time in the richest manner provided plastic. How does the artistic needs of
the Time in the painted stucco sculptures a means superior to the widest dissemination of larger
Plaques was found, the artist did in a similar manner the needs for those small commodities
to meet by the precious originals or the models of the same abformten and bronze (in exceptional
cases, lead [A]) nachgössen, the individual parts but were looking for property for sale in
the workshops of the sculptors and goldsmiths XV. and XVI. This second worts cent obtained by
a similar meaning to the sculpture as the signatory for the engraving arts. While the originals,
their noble material half to a small number were destroyed by melting, we are bronze replicas
of it in whole or only in certain parts, especially in the small relief plaques, the plaques
(PLACHETTES, plaquettes, see

There are traces of agreement, though chiefly lost, in their pontifical dress. Before the Indian
Archimagus officiates in making the supposed holy fire for the yearly atonement of sin, the
Sagan clothes him with a white ephod, which is a waistcoat without sleeves. In resemblance
of the Urim and Thummim the American Archimagus wears a breastplate made of a white conch-shell,
with two holes bored in the middle of it, through which he puts the ends of an otter-skin strap;
and fastens a buck-horn white button to the outside of each; as if in imitation of the precious
stones of the Urim."

In remarking upon this statement of Mr. Adair, Faber, a learned divine of the church of England,
has said, that Ishtoallo (the name according to Adair of the Indian priests) is most probably
a corruption of Ish-da-Eloah, a man of God, (the term used by the Shunemitish woman in speaking
of Elisha;) and that Sagan is the very name by which the Hebrews called the deputy of the High
Priest, who supplied his office and who performed the functions of it in the absence of the
high priest, or when any accident had disabled him from officiating in person.

8th, Their festivals, fasts and religious rites.

"The ceremonies of the Indians in their religious worship,[21] are more after the Mosaic institution,
than of Pagan imitation. This could not be the fact if a majority of the old nations were of
heathenish descent. They are utter strangers to all the gestures practiced by Pagans in their
religious rites. They have likewise an appellative, which with them is the mysterious, essential
name of God; the tetragrammaton, which they never use in common speech. They are very particular
of the time and place, when and where they mention it, and this is always done in a very solemn
manner. It is known that the Jews had so great and sacred regard for the four lettered, divine
name, as scarcely ever to mention it, except when the High Priest went into the sanctuary for
the expiation of sins."

Mr. Adair likewise says that the American Indians, like the Hebrews, have an ark in which are
kept various holy vessels, and which is never suffered to rest on the bare ground. "On hilly
ground, where stones are plenty, they always place it on them, but on level land it is made
to rest on short legs. They have also a faith, in the power and holiness of their ark, as strong
as the Israelites had in theirs. It is too sacred and dangerous to be touched by any one, except
the chieftain and his waiter. The leader virtually acts the part of a priest of war protempore,
in imitation of the Israelites fighting under the divine military banner."

Among their other religious rites the Indians, according to Adair, cut out the sinewy part
of the thigh; in commemoration, as he says, of the Angel wrestling with Jacob.

12th, Their abstinence from unclean things.

"Eagles of every kind are esteemed by the Indians to be unclean food; as also ravens, crows,
bats, buzzards and every species of owl. They believe that swallowing gnats, flies and the
like, always breed sickness. To this that divine sarcasm alludes 'swallowing a camel and straining
at a gnat.'" Their purifications for their Priests, and for having touched a dead body or other
unclean thing, according to Mr. Adair, are quite Levitical. He acknowledges however, that they
have no traces of circumcision; but he supposes that they lost this rite in their wanderings,
as it ceased among the Hebrews, during the forty years in the wilderness.

15th, Their cities of refuge.

"The Israelites had cities of refuge for those who killed persons unawares. According to the
same particular divine [22] law of mercy, each of the Indian nations has a house or town of
refuge, which is a sure asylum to protect a man-slayer, or the unfortunate captive, if they
can but once enter into it. In almost every nation they have peaceable towns, called ancient
holy, or white towns. These seem to have been towns of refuge; for it is not in the memory
of man, that ever human blood was shed in them, although they often force persons from thence
and put them to death elsewhere."

16th, Their purifications and ceremonies preparatory.

"Before the Indians go to war they have many preparatory ceremonies of purification and fasting
like what is recorded of the Israelites."

21st, Their raising seed to a deceased brother.

"The surviving brother, by the Mosaic law, was to raise seed to a deceased brother, who left
a widow childless. The Indian custom looks the very same way; but in this as in their law of
blood, the eldest brother can redeem."

With these and many arguments of a like kind, has Mr. Adair endeavored to support the conjecture,
that the American Indians are lineally descended from the Israelites; and gravely asks of those
who may dissent from his opinion of their origin and descent, to inform him how they came here,
and by what means they formed the long chain of rites and customs so similar to those of the
Hebrews, and dissimilar to the rites and customs of the pagan world.

Major Carver, a provincial officer who sojourned some time with the Indians and visited twelve
different nations of them, instead of observing the great similarity, mentioned by Adair as
existing between the natives and Hebrews, thought he could trace features of resemblance between
them and the Chinese and Tartars; and has undertaken to shew how they might have got here. He says,

"Although it is not ascertained certainly, that the continents of Asia and America join each
other, yet it is proven that the sea which is supposed to divide them, is full of islands the
distance from which to either continent, is comparatively trifling. From these islands a communication
with the main land could be more readily effected than from any other point." "It is very evident
that the manners and customs of the American Indians, resemble that of the Tartars; and I have
no doubt that in some future era, it will be reduced to a certainty that in some of the wars
between the Chinese and Tartars, a part [23] of the inhabitants of the northern provinces were
driven from their country and took refuge in some of these islands, and from thence found their
way to America. At different periods each nation might prove victorious, and the conquered
by turns fly before the conquerors; and hence might arise the similitude of the Indians to
all these people, and that animosity which exists among so many of their tribes."

After remarking on the similarity which exists between the Chinese and Indians, in the singular
custom of shaving or plucking out the hair leaving only a small spot on the crown of the head;
and the resemblance in sound and signification which many of the Chinese and Indian words bear
to each other, he proceeds, "After the most critical inquiry and mature deliberation, I am
of opinion that America received its first inhabitants from the northeast, by way of the islands
mentioned as lying between Asia and America. This might have been effected at different times
and from different parts: from Tartary, China, Japan or Kamschatka, the inhabitants of these
countries resembling each other, in color, feature and shape."

Other writers on this subject, coinciding in opinion with Carver, mention a tradition which
the Indians in Canada have, that foreign merchants clothed in silk formerly visited them in
great ships: these are supposed to have been Chinese, the ruins of Chinese ships having been
found on the American coast. The names of many of the American kings, are said to be Tartar;
and Tartarax, who reigned formerly in Quivira, means the Tartar. Manew, the founder of the
Peruvian empire, most probably came from the Manchew Tartars. Montezuma, the title of the emperors
of Mexico, is of Japanese extraction; for according to some authors it is likewise the appellation
of the Japanese Monarch. The plant Ginseng, since found in America, where the natives termed
it Garentoguen, a word of the same import in their language, with Ginseng in the Tartar, both
meaning THE THIGHS OF A MAN.

Dr. Robertson is decidedly of opinion, that the different tribes of American Indians, excepting
the Esquimaux, are of Asiatic extraction. He refers to a tradition among the Mexicans of the
migration of their ancestors from a remote country, situated to the north-west of Mexico, and
says they point out their various stations as they advanced into the interior provinces, which
is precisely the route they must have held, if they had been emigrants from Asia.

Mr. Jefferson, in his notes on Virginia, says, that the passage from Europe to America was
always practicable, even to the imperfect [24] navigation of the ancient times; and that, from
recent discoveries, it is proven, that if Asia and America be separated at all it is only by
a narrow streight. "Judging from the resemblance between the Indians of America and the eastern
inhabitants of Asia, we should say that the former are descendants of the latter, or the latter
of the former, except indeed the Esquimaux, who, from the same circumstance of resemblance,
and from identity of language, must be derived from the Greenlanders. A knowledge of their
several languages would be the most certain evidence of their derivation which could be produced.
In fact it is the best proof of the affinity of nations, which ever can be referred to."

After regretting that so many of the Indian tribes have been suffered to perish, without our
having collected and preserved the general rudiments of their language, he proceeds,

"Imperfect as is our knowledge of the tongues spoken in America, it suffices to discover the
following remarkable fact. Arranging them under the radical ones to which they may be palpably
traced, and doing the same by those of the red men of Asia, there will be found probably twenty
in America, for one in Asia, of those radical languages; so called because if ever they were
the same, they have lost all resemblance to one another. A separation into dialects may be
the work of a few ages only, but for two dialects to recede from one another, 'till they have
lost all vestiges of their common origin, must require an immense course of time; perhaps not
less than many people give to the age of the earth. A greater number of those radical changes
of language having taken place among the red men of America proves them of greater antiquity
than those of Asia."

Indian traditions say, that "in ancient days the Great Island appeared upon the big waters,
the earth brought forth trees, herbs and fruits: that there were in the world a good and a
bad spirit, the good spirit formed creeks and rivers on the great island, and created numerous
species of animals to inhabit the forests, and fishes of all kinds to inhabit the water. He
also made two beings to whom he gave living souls and named them Ea-gwe-howe, (real people).
Subsequently some of the people became giants and committed outrages upon the others. After
many years a body of Ea-gwe-howe people encamped on the bank of a majestic stream, which they
named, Kanawaga (St. Lawrence.) After a long time a number of foreign people sailed from a
part unknown, but unfortunately the winds drove them off and they ultimately landed on the
southern part of the great island and many of the crew perished. Those who survived, selected
a place for residence, erected fortifications, became a numerous people and extended their
settlements."[4]

Thus various and discordant are the conjectures respecting the manner in which this continent
was first peopled. Although some [25] of them appear more rational and others, yet are they
at best but hypothetical disquisitions on a subject which will not now admit of certainty.
All agree that America was inhabited long anterior to its discovery by Columbus, and by a race
of human beings, who, however numerous they once were, are fast hastening to extinction; some
centuries hence and they will be no more known. The few memorials, which the ravages of time
have suffered to remain of them, in those portions of the country from which they have been
long expelled; have destruction dealt them by the ruthless hand of man. History may transmit
to after ages, the fact that they once were, and give their "local habitation and their name."
These will probably be received as the tales of fiction, and posterity be at as much loss to
determine, whether they ever had an existence, as we now are to say from whence they sprang.

-----
   [1] "If a learned man of Tobolski or Pekin were to read some
       of our books, be might in this way demonstrate, that the French
       are descended from the Trojans. The most ancient writings, he
       might say, and those in most esteem in France, are romances:
       these were written in a pure language, derived from the ancient
       Romans, who were famous for never advancing a falsehood. Now
       upwards of twenty of these authentic books, affirm that
       Francis, the founder of the monarchy of the Franks, was son to
       Hector. The name of Hector has ever since been preserved by
       this nation; and even in the present century one of the
       greatest generals was called Hector de Villars.

       "The neighboring nations (he would continue,) are so
       unanimous in acknowledging this truth, that Ariosto, one of
       the most learned of the Italians, owns in his Orlando, that
       Charlemagne's knights fought for Hector's helmet. Lastly,
       there is one proof which admits of no reply; namely, that the
       ancient Franks to perpetuate the memory of the Trojans, their
       ancestors, built a new city called Troye, in the province of
       Champagne; and these modern Trojans have always retained so
       strong an aversion to their enemies, the Greeks, that there
       is not at present four persons in the whole province of
       Champagne, who will learn their language; nay, they would
       never admit any Jesuits among them; probably because they had
       heard it said, that some of that body used formerly to
       explain Homer in their public schools."

       Proceeding in this manner, M. de Voltaire shows how easily
       this hypothesis might be overturned; and while one might
       thus demonstrate that the Parisians are descended from the
       Greeks, other profound antiquarians might in like manner prove
       them to be of Egyptian, or even of Arabian extraction; and
       although the learned world might much puzzle themselves to
       decide the question, yet would it remain undecided and in
       uncertainty.--Preface to the Life of Peter the Great.

   [2] In a small work entitled "Ancient History of the Six
       Nations," written by David Cusick, an educated Indian of the
       Tuscarora village, frequent mention is made of the actual
       presence among them, of Tarenyawagua, or Holder of the Heavens,
       who guided and directed them when present, and left rules for
       their government, during his absence. Several miracles
       performed by him are particularly mentioned. It likewise speaks
       of the occasional visits of Angels or 'agents of the Superior
       power' as they are called by Cusick; and tells of a visitor who
       came among the Tuscaroras long anterior to the discovery of
       America by Columbus. "He appeared to be a very old man, taught
       them many things, and informed them that the people beyond the
       great water had killed their Maker, but that he rose again. The
       old man died among them and they buried him--soon after some
       person went to the grave and found that he had risen; he was
       never heard of afterwards."

   [3] In confirmation of this tradition among the Indians, the
       following somewhat singular circumstance related by Mr. Carver,
       may with propriety be adduced:

       While at Grand Portage, from the number of those who were there
       and the fact that the traders did not arrive as soon as was
       expected, there was a great scarcity of provisions, and much
       consequent anxiety as to the period of their arrival. One day,
       Mr. Carver says, that while expressing their wishes for the
       event, and looking anxiously to ascertain if they could be seen
       on the Lake, the chief Priest of the Kilistines told them that
       he would endeavor in a conference with the Great Spirit, to
       learn at what time the traders would arrive: and the following
       evening was fixed upon for the spiritual conference.

       When every preparation had been made, the king conducted Mr.
       Carver to a spacious tent, the covering of which was so drawn
       up as to render visible to those without, every thing which
       passed within. Mr. Carver being seated beside the king within
       the tent, observed in the centre a place of an oblong shape,
       composed of stakes stuck at intervals in the ground, forming
       something like a coffin, and large enough to contain the body
       of a man. The sticks were far enough from each other to admit a
       distinct view by the spectators, of what ever passed within
       them; while the tent was perfectly illuminated.

       When the Priest entered, a large Elk-skin being spread on the
       ground, he divested himself of all his clothing, except that
       around his middle, and laying down on the skin enveloped
       himself (save only his head) in it. The skin was then bound
       round with about forty yards of cord, and in that situation he
       was placed within the ballustrade of sticks.

       In a few seconds he was heard to mutter, but his voice,
       gradually assuming a higher tone, was at length extended to its
       utmost pitch, and sometimes praying, he worked himself into
       such an agitation as to produce a foaming at the mouth. He has not indeed told
       me when the traders will be here; but tomorrow when the sun
       reaches the highest point in the heavens, a canoe will arrive,
       the people in that canoe will inform us when the traders will
       arrive."

       Mr. Carver adds that on the next day at noon a canoe was descried
       on the lake at the distance of about three miles,--completely
       verifying the prediction of the High Priest, in point of time.
       From the people on board this canoe they learned that the
       traders would be at the portage on the second day thereafter,
       at which time they actually did arrive.

   [4] Indian traditions by Cusick.

INTRODUCTION.

CHAPTER III.

The aborigines of America, although divided into many different tribes, inhabiting various
climates, and without a community of language, are yet assimilated to each other in stature
and complexion, more strikingly than are the inhabitants of the different countries of Europe.
The manners and customs of one nation, are very much the manners and customs of all; and although
there be peculiarities observable among all, yet are they fewer and less manifest than those
which mark the nations of the old world, and distinguish them so palpably from each other.
A traveller might have traversed the country, when occupied exclusively by the natives, without
remarking among them, the diversity which exists in Europe; or being impressed with the contrast
which a visit across the Pyrennes would exhibit, between the affability and vivacity of a Frenchman
at a theatre or in the Elysian fields, and the hauteur and reserve of a Spaniard at their bloody
circus, when "bounds with one lashing spring the mighty brute."

[26] Nor is there much in savage life, calculated to inspire the mind of civilized man, with
pleasurable sensations. Many of the virtues practised by them, proceed rather from necessity
or ignorance than from any ethical principle existing among them. The calm composure with which
they meet death and their stoical indifference to bodily pain, are perhaps more attributable
to recklessness of life and physical insensibility,[1] than to fortitude or magnanimity; consequently
they do not much heighten the zest of reflection, in contemplating their character. The christian
and the philanthropist, with the benevolent design of improving their morals and meliorating
their condition, may profitably study every peculiarity and trait of character observable among
them; it will facilitate their object and enable them the more readily to reclaim them from
a life of heathenish barbarity, and to extend to them the high boons of civilization and christianity.

It has been observed that the different tribes of natives of North America, resemble each other
very much in stature and complexion, in manners and customs; a general description of these
will therefor be sufficient.

The stature of an Indian, is generally that of the medial stature of the Anglo Americans; the
Osages are said to form an exception to this rule, being somewhat taller. They are almost universally
straight and well proportioned; their limbs are clean, but less muscular than those of the
whites, and their whole appearance strongly indicative of effeminacy. In walking, they invariable
place one foot directly before the other--the toes never verging from a right line with the
heel. When traveling in companies, their manner of marching is so peculiar as to have given
rise to the expression, "Indian file;" and while proceeding in this way, each carefully places
his foot in the vestige of the foremost of the party, so as to leave the impression of the
footsteps of but one. They have likewise in their gait and carriage something so entirely different
from the gait and carriage of the whites, as to enable a person to pronounce on one at a considerable
distance. The hair of an Indian is also strikingly different from that of the whites. It is
always black and straight, hangs loose and looks as if it were [27] oiled. There is a considerable
resemblance in appearance, between it and the glossy black mane of a thoroughbred horse; though
its texture is finer.

In the squaws there exist, the same delicacy of proportion, the same effeminacy of person,
the same slenderness of hand and foot, which characterise the female of refined society; in
despite too of the fact, that every laborious duty and every species of drudgery, are imposed
on them from childhood. Their faces are broad, and between the eyes they are exceedingly wide;
their cheek bones are high and the eyes black in both sexes--the noses of the women inclining
generally to the flat nose of the African; while those of the men are more frequently aquiline
than otherwise.

Instances of decrepitude and deformity, are rarely known to exist among them: this is probably
owing to the manner in which they are tended and nursed in infancy. It is not necessary that
the mother should, as has been supposed, be guilty of the unnatural crime of murdering her
decrepid or deformed offspring--the hardships they encounter are too great to be endured by
infants not possessed of natural vigor, and they sink beneath them.

Their countenances are for the most inflexible, stern and immovable. The passions which agitate
or distract the mind, never alter its expression, nor do the highest ecstacies of which their
nature is susceptible, ever relax its rigidity. With the same imperturbability of feature,
they encounter death from the hand of an enemy, and receive the greetings of a friend.

In their intercourse with others, they seem alike insensible to emotions of pleasure and of
pain; and rarely give vent to feelings of either. The most ludicrous scenes scarcely ever cause
them to laugh, or the most interesting recitals draw from them more than their peculiar monosyllabic
expression of admiration.

In conversation they are modest and unassuming; indeed taciturnity is as much a distinguishing
trait of Indian character, as it ever was of the Roman. In their councils and public meetings,
they never manifest an impatience to be heard, or a restlessness under observations, either
grating to personal feeling or opposite to their individual ideas of propriety: on the contrary
they are still, silent and attentive; and each is heard with the respect due to his years,
his wisdom, his experience, or the fame which his exploits may have acquired him. [28] A loud
and garrulous Indian is received by the others with contempt, and a cowardly disposition invariably
attributed to him--

    "Bold at the council board,
    But in the field he shuns the sword,"

is as much and truly an apothegm with them as with us.

Their taciturnity and irrisibility however, are confined to their sober hours. When indulging
their insatiate thirst for spirit, they are boisterous and rude, and by their obstreperous
laughter, their demoniacal shrieks and turbulent vociferations, produce an appalling discord,
such as might well be expected to proceed from a company of infernal spirits at their fiendish
revels; and exhibit a striking contrast to the low, monotonous tones used by them at other times.

There can be no doubt that the Indians are the most lazy, indolent race of human beings. No
attempt which has ever been made to convert them into slaves, has availed much. The rigid discipline
of a Spanish master, has failed to overcome that inertness, from which an Indian is roused
only by war and the chase--Engaged in these, he exhibits as much activity and perseverance,
as could be displayed by any one; and to gratify his fondness for them, will encounter toils
and privations, from which others would shrink. His very form indicates at once, an aptitude
for that species of exercise which war and hunting call into action, and an unfitness for the
laborious drudgery of husbandry and many of the mechanic arts. Could they have been converted
into profitable slaves, it is more than probable we should never have been told, that "the
hand of providence was visible in the surprising instances of mortality among the Indians,
to make room for the whites."

In their moral character many things appear of a nature, either so monstrous as to shock humanity,
or so absurd as to excite derision; yet they have some redeeming qualities which must elicit
commendation. And while we view with satisfaction those bright spots, shining more brilliantly
from the gloom which surrounds them, their want of learning and the absence of every opportunity
for refinement, should plead in extenuation of their failings and their vices. Some of the
most flagrant of these, if not encouraged, have at least been sanctioned by the whites. In
the war between the New England colonies and the Narragansetts, it was the misfortune of the
brave Philip, after having witnessed the destruction of the [29] greater part of his nation,
to be himself slain by a Mohican. After his head had been taken off, Oneco, chief of the Mohicans,
then in alliance with the colonists, claimed that he had a right to feast himself on the body
of his fallen adversary. The whites did not object to this, but composedly looked on Oneco,
broiling and eating the flesh of Philip--and yet cannibalism was one of their most savage traits
of character.

This was a general, if not an universal custom among the Indians, when America became known
to the whites. Whether it has yet entirely ceased is really to be doubted: some of those who
have been long intimate with them, affirm that it has not; though it is far from being prevalent.

The Indians are now said to be irritable; but when Europeans first settled among them, they
were not more irascible than their new neighbors. In their anger however, they differ very
much from the whites. They are not talkative and boisterous as these are, but silent, sullen
and revengeful. If an injury be done them, they never forget, they never forgive it. Nothing
can be more implacable than their resentment--no time can allay it--no change of circumstances
unfix its purpose. Revenge is to them as exhilarating, as the cool draught from the fountain,
to the parched and fevered lips of a dying man.

When taking vengeance of an enemy, there is no cruelty which can be exercised, no species of
torture, which their ingenuity can devise, too severe to be inflicted. To those who have excited
a spirit of resentment in the bosom of an Indian, the tomahawk and scalping knife are instruments
of mercy. Death by the faggot--by splinters of the most combustible wood, stuck in the flesh
and fired--maiming and disemboweling, tortures on which the soul sickens but to reflect, are
frequently practiced. To an enemy of their own color, they are perhaps more cruel and severe,
than to the whites. In requiting upon him, every refinement of torture is put in requisition,
to draw forth a sigh or a groan, or cause him to betray some symptom of human sensibility.
This they never effect. An Indian neither shrinks from a knife, nor winces at the stake; on
the contrary he seems to exult in his agony, and will mock his tormentors for the leniency
and mildness of their torture.[2]

[30] Drinking and gambling are vices, to which the Indians, as well as the whites, are much
addicted. Such is their fondness for spirit of any kind that they are rarely known to be sober,
when they have it in their power to be otherwise. Neither a sense of honor or of shame has
been able to overcome their propensity for its use; and when drunk, the ties of race, of friendship
and of kindred are too weak, to bind their ferocious tempers.

In gambling they manifest the same anxiety, which we see displayed at the card table of the
whites. The great difference seems to be, that we depend too frequently on sleight and dexterity;
whereas while they are shaking their gourd neck of half whited plumbstones, they only use certain
tricks of conjuration, which in their simplicity they believe will ensure them success. To
this method of attaining an object, they have frequent recourse. Superstition is the concomitant
of ignorance. The most enlightened, are rarely altogether exempt from its influence--with the
uninformed it is a master passion, swaying and directing the mind in all its operations.

In their domestic economy, Indians are, in some respects, like the rude of all countries. They
manifest but little respect for the female; imposing on her not only the duties of the hut,
but also the more laborious operations of husbandry; and observing towards them the hauteur
and distance of superior beings.

There are few things, indeed, which mark with equal precision, the state of civilization existing
in any community, as the rank assigned in it to females. In the rude and barbarous stages of
society, they are invariably regarded as inferior beings, [31] instruments of sensual gratification,
and unworthy the attention and respect of men. As mankind advance to refinement, females gradually
attain an elevation of rank, and acquire an influence in society, which smoothes the asperities
of life and produces the highest polish, of which human nature is susceptible.

Among the Indians there is, however rude they may be in other respects, a great respect always
paid to female chastity. Instances in which it has been violated by them, if to be found at
all, are extremely few. However much the passion of revenge may stimulate to acts of cruelty,
the propensities of nature never lead them to infringe the virtue of women in their power.

The general character of the Indians, was more estimable, when they first became known to Europeans,
than it is at present. This has been ascribed to the introduction of ardent spirits among them--other
causes however, have conspired to produce the result.

The cupidity of those who were engaged in commerce with the natives, too frequently prompted
them to take every advantage, for self aggrandizement, which they could obtain over the Indians.
In the lucrative traffic carried on with them, the influence of honesty was not predominant--the
real value of the commodity procured, was never allowed; while upon every article given in
exchange, extortion alone affixed the price. These examples could not fail to have a deteriorating
effect upon their untutored minds; and we find them accordingly losing their former regard
for truth, honesty and fidelity; and becoming instead deceitful, dishonest and treacherous.
Many of their ancient virtues however, are still practised by them.

The rights of hospitality are accorded to those who go among them, with a liberality and sincerity
which would reflect credit on civilized man. And although it has been justly said that they
rarely forgive an enemy, yet is it equally true that they never forsake their friends; to them
they are always kind, generous and beneficent.

After the ceremony of introduction is over,[3] a captive enemy, [32] who is adopted by them,
is also treated with the utmost humanity and attention. An Indian cheerfully divides his last
morsel with an adopted son or brother; and will readily risk life in his defence. Such indeed,
is the kindness which captives thus situated invariably receive, that they frequently regret
the hour of their redemption, and refuse to leave their red brethren, to return and mingle
with the whites.

As members of a community, they are at all times willing to devote their every faculty, for
the good of the whole. The honor and welfare of their respective tribes, are primary considerations
with them. To promote these, they cheerfully encounter every privation, endure every hardship,
and face every danger. Their patriotism is of the most pure and disinterested character; and
of those who have made us feel so sensibly, the horrors of savage warfare, many were actuated
by motives which would reflect honor on the citizens of any country. The unfortunate Tecumseh
was a remarkable example of the most ardent and patriotic devotion to his country.

Possessed of an acute and discerning mind, he witnessed the extending influence of the whites,
with painful solicitude. Listening with melancholy rapture, to the traditionary accounts of
the former greatness of his nation, and viewing in anticipation the exile or extinction of
his race, his noble soul became fired with the hope that he might retrieve the fallen fortune
of his country, and restore it to its pristine dignity and grandeur. His attachment to his
tribe impelled him to exertion and every nerve was strained in its cause.

Determined if possible to achieve the independence of his nation, and to rid her of those whom
he considered her oppressors, he formed the scheme of uniting in hostility against the United
States, all the tribes dwelling east of the Mississippi river. In the prosecution of this purpose,
he travelled from Mackinaw to Georgia,[4] and with wonderful adroitness practised on the different
feelings of his red brethren. Assuming at times the character of a prophet, he wrought powerfully
on their credulity and superstition.--Again, depending on the force of oratory, the witchery
of his eloquence drew many [33] to his standard. But all was in vain--His plans were entirely
frustrated. He had brought none of his auxiliaries into the field; and was totally unprepared
for hostilities, when his brother, the celebrated Shawanese prophet, by a premature attack
on the army under Gen. Harrison, at an inauspicious moment, precipitated him into a war with
the United States.

Foiled by this means, Tecumseh joined the standard of Great Britain in the war of 1812; and
as a Brigadier General in her army, lost his life, bravely supporting the cause which he had
espoused. He deserved a better fate; and but for prejudice which is so apt to dim the eye and
distort the object, Tecumseh would, most probably, be deemed a martyr for his country, and
associated in the mind with the heroes of Marathon and Thermopylæ.

To contemplate the Indian character, in a religious point of view, is less gratifying than
to consider it in regard to the lesser morals. At the period of the settlement of Western Virginia,
excepting the Moravians, and a few others who had been induced by the zeal and exertions of
Roman catholic missionaries to wear the cross, the Indians north west of the Ohio river, were
truly heathens. They believed indeed in a First Cause, and worshiped the Good Spirit; but they
were ignorant of the great truths of Christianity, and their devotions were but superstitious
acts of blind reverence. In this situation they remain generally at the present day, notwithstanding
the many laudable endeavors which have been made to christianize them.

Perhaps there was never a tribe in America, but believed in the existence of a Deity; yet were
their ideas of the nature and attributes of God, not only obscure, but preposterous and absurd.
They believe also in the existence of many inferior deities, whom they suppose to be employed
as assistants in managing the affairs of the world, and in inspecting the actions of men. Eagles
and Owls are thought by some to have been placed here as observers of the actions of men; and
accordingly, when an eagle is seen to soar about them by day, or an owl to perch near them
at night, they immediately offer sacrifice, that a good report may be made of them to the Great
Spirit.

They are likewise believers in the immortality of the soul; and have such an idea of a future
state of existence, as accords with their character and condition here. Strangers to [34] intellectual
pleasures, they suppose that their happiness hereafter will consist of mere sensual gratifications;
and that when they die, they will be translated to a delightful region, where the flowers never
fade, nor the leaves fall from the trees; where the forests abound in game, and the lakes in
fish, and where they expect to remain forever, enjoying all the pleasures which delighted them
here.[5]

In consequence of this belief, when an Indian dies, and is buried, they place in the grave
with him, his bow and arrows and such weapons as they use in war, that he may be enabled to
procure game and overcome an enemy. And it has been said, that they grieve more for the death
of an infant unable to provide for itself in the world of spirits, than for one who had attained
manhood and was capable of taking care of himself. An interesting instance of this is given
by Major Carver, and furnishes at once, affecting evidence of their incongruous creed and of
their parental tenderness. Maj. Carver says:

"Whilst I remained with them, a couple whose tent was near to mine, lost a son about four years
old. The parents were so inconsolable for its loss, and so much affected by its death, that
they pursued the usual testimonies of grief with such uncommon vigor, as through the weight
of sorrow and loss of blood, to occasion the death of the father. The mother, who had been
hitherto absorbed in grief, no sooner beheld her husband expire, than she dried up her tears,
and appeared cheerful and resigned.

"As I knew not how to account for so extraordinary a transition, I took an opportunity to ask
her the reason of it. She replied, that as the child was so young when it died, and unable
to support itself in the country of spirits, both she and her husband had been apprehensive
that its situation would be far from pleasant; but no sooner did she behold its father depart
for the same place, and who not only loved the child with the tenderest affection, but was
a good hunter and [35] able to provide plentifully for its support, than she ceased to mourn.
She added that she saw no reason to continue her tears, as the child was now happy under the
protection of a fond father; and that she had only one wish remaining to be gratified, and
that was a wish to be herself with them."[6]

In relation to the Indian antiquities so frequently met with in America, much doubt still exists.
When and for what purpose many of those vast mounds of earth, so common in the western country,
were heaped up, is matter of uncertainty. Mr. Jefferson has pronounced them to be repositories
of the dead; and many of them certainly were designed for that purpose; perhaps all with which
he had become acquainted previous to the writing of his notes of Virginia. Mr. Jefferson did
not deem them worthy the name of monuments. Since the country has been better explored, many
have been discovered justly entitled to that appellation, some of which seem to have been constructed
for purposes other than inhumation.[7] These are frequently met with in the valley of the Mississippi,
and are said to extend into Mexico. The most celebrated works of this class, are believed to
be those at Circleville in Ohio, which have so frequently been described, and are justly considered
memorials of the labor and perseverance of those by whom they were erected.

There is a tradition among the Indians of the north, which if true would furnish a very rational
solution to the question, "for what purpose were they constructed?" According to this tradition
about "two thousand two hundred years, before Columbus discovered America, the northern nations
appointed a prince, and immediately after, repaired to the south and visited the GOLDEN CITY,
the capital of a vast empire. After a time the emperor of the south built many forts throughout
his dominions, and extending them northwardly almost penetrated the lake Erie. This produced
much excitement. The people of the north, afraid that they would be deprived of the country
on the south side of the great lakes, determined to defend it against the infringement of any
foreign people; long and bloody wars ensued which lasted about one hundred years. The people
of the north, being more skillful in the use of bows and arrows, and capable of enduring hardships
which proved fatal to those of the south, gained the conquest; and all the towns and forts,
which had been erected by their enemy, were totally destroyed and left in a heap of ruins."[8]

The most considerable of those tumuli or sepulchral mounds, which are found in Virginia, is
that on the bottoms of Grave creek, near its entrance into the Ohio, about twelve miles below
Wheeling, and is the only large one in this section of the country. Its diameter at the base,
is said to be one hundred yards, its perpendicular height about eighty feet, and the diameter
at its summit, forty-five feet. Trees, of all sizes and of various kinds, are growing on its
sides; and fallen [36] and decayed timber, is interspersed among them; a single white oak rises
out of a concavity in the centre of its summit.[9]

Near to Cahokia there is a group (of about two hundred) of these mounds, of various dimensions.[10]
The largest of these is said to have a base of eight hundred yards circumference, and an altitude
of ninety feet. These and the one mentioned as being on Grave creek and many smaller ones in
various parts of the country, were no doubt places of inhumation.[11]--Many have been opened,
and found to contain human bones promiscuously thrown together. Mr. Jefferson supposed the
one examined by him, (the diameter of whose base was only forty feet and height twelve) to
contain the bones of perhaps a thousand human beings, of each sex and of every age. Others
have been examined, in which were the skeletons of men of much greater stature, than that of
any of the Indians in America, at the time of its discovery, or of those with whom we have
since become acquainted.

It is a well known fact, that since the whites became settled in the country, the Indians were
in the habit of collecting the bones of their dead and of depositing them in one general cemetery;
but the earth and stone used by them, were taken from the adjacent land. This was not invariably
the case, with those ancient heaps of earth found in the west. In regard to many of them, this
singular circumstance is said to be a fact, that the earth, of which they are composed, is
of an altogether different nature, from that around them; and must, in some instances, have
been carried a considerable distance. The tellurine structures at Circleville are of this sort;
and the material of which they were constructed, is said to be distinctly different, from the
earth any where near to them.

The immensity of the size of these and many others, would induce the supposition that they
could not have been raised by a race of people as indolent as the Indians have been, ever since
a knowledge was had of them. Works, the construction of which would now require the concentrated
exertions of at least one thousand men, aided by the mechanical inventions of later days, for
several months, could hardly have been erected by persons, so subject to lassitude under labor
as they are: unless indeed their population was infinitely greater than we now conceive it
to have been. Admitting however, this density of population to have existed, other circumstances
would corroborate the belief, that the country once had other inhabitants, than the progenitors
of those who have been called, the aborigines of America: one of these circumstances is the
uncommon size of many of the skeletons found in the smaller mounds upon the hills.

If the fact be, as it is represented, that the larger skeletons are invariably found on elevated
situations, remote from the larger water courses, it would tend to show that there was a diversity
of habit, and admitting their cotemporaneous existence, perhaps no alliance or intercourse
between those, whose remains they are, and the persons by whom those large mounds and fortifications
were erected, [37] these being found only on plains in the contiguity of large streams or inland
lakes; and containing only the bones of individuals of ordinary stature.

Another and stronger evidence that America was occupied by others than the ancestors of the
present Indians, is to be found in those antiquities, which demonstrate that iron was once
known here, and converted to some of the uses ordinarily made of it.

In graduating a street in Cincinnati, there was found, twenty-five feet below the surface of
the earth, a small horse shoe, in which were several nails. It is said to present the appearance
of such erosion as would result from the oxidation of some centuries. It was smaller than would
be required for a common mule.[12]

Many are the instances of pieces of timber found, various depths below the surface of the earth,
with the marks of the axe palpably visible on them.[13] A sword too, said to have been enclosed
in the wood of the roots of a tree not less than five hundred years old, is preserved in Ohio
as a curiosity. Many other instances might, if necessary, be adduced to prove, that implements
of iron were in use in this country, prior to its occupation by the whites. Now if a people
once have the use of that metal, it is far from probable that it will ever after be lost to
them: the essential purposes to which it may be applied, would preserve it to them. The Indians
however, 'till taught by the Europeans, had no knowledge of it.

Many of the antiquities discovered in other parts of the country, show that the arts once flourished
to an extent beyond what they have ever been known to do among the Indians. The body found
in the saltpetre cave of Kentucky, was wrapped in blankets made of linen and interwoven with
feathers of the wild turkey, tastefully arranged. It was much smaller than persons of equal
age at the present day, and had yellowish hair. In Tennessee many walls of faced stone, and
even walled wells have been found in so many places, at such depths and under such circumstances,
as to preclude the idea of their having been made by the whites since the discovery by Columbus.

[38] In this state too, have been found burying grounds, in which the skeletons seem all to
have been those of pigmies: the graves, in which the bodies had been deposited, were seldom
three feet in length; yet the teeth in the skulls prove that they were the bodies of persons
of mature age.

Upon the whole there cannot be much doubt, that America was once inhabited by a people, not
otherwise allied to the Indians of the present day, than that they were descendants of him,
from whom has sprung the whole human family.

-----
   [1] It is said that the nerves of an Indian do not shrink as
       much, nor shew the same tendency to spasm, under the knife of
       the surgeon, as the nerves of a white man in a similar
       situation.

   [2] A Narraganset, made prisoner by Maj. Talcott in 1679,
       begged to be delivered to the Mohicans that he might be put to
       death in their own way. The New Englanders complying with his
       request, preparations were made for the tragical event. "The
       Mohicans, formed a circle, and admitting within it as many of
       the whites as chose to witness their proceedings, placed the
       prisoner in the centre. One of the Mohicans, who had lost a son
       in the late engagement, with a knife cut off the PRISONER'S
       EARS! then his NOSE! and then the FINGERS off each hand! after
       the lapse of a few moments, his EYES WERE DUG OUT, AND THEIR
       SOCKETS FILLED WITH HOT EMBERS!! All this time the prisoner
       instead of bewailing his fate, seemed to surpass his tormentors
       in expressions of joy. At length when exhausted with loss of
       blood and unable to stand, his executioner closed the tragic
       scene by beating out his brains with a tomahawk."--Indian
       Wars, by Trumbull.

   [3] Indians consider the running of the gauntlet, as but the
       ceremony of an introduction; and say that it is "like the shake
       hands and howde do, of the whites."

   [4] While performing this tour, Tecumseh carried a RED
       STICK, the acceptance of which was considered a joining of his
       party--Hence those Indians who were hostile to the United
       States, were denominated RED STICKS.

   [5] Pope has very finely expressed the leading articles of
       religion among the Indians in the following lines.

   [6] The author's summary of Indian character is for the most
       part excellent, and in accord with more recent conclusions. See
       Chap. I. of The Colonies, in "Epochs of American History"
       (Longmans, 1892.)--R. G. T.

   [7] Gen. George Rogers Clark, an early and careful observer,
       scouted the idea advanced by Noah Webster, in Carey's American
       Museum, in 1789, that these extraordinary Western military
       defenses were the work of De Soto. "As for his being the author
       of these fortifications," says Clark, "it is quite out of the
       question; they are more numerous than he had men, and many of
       them would have required fifty thousand men for their
       occupancy."--L. C. D.

   [8] Indian traditions, by Cusick.

   [9] This description, written by Withers in 1831, still
       holds good in the main. The mound, which proves to have been a
       burial tumulus, is now surrounded by the little city of
       Moundsville, W. Va., and is kept inclosed by the owner as one
       of the sights of the place. The writer visited it in May,
       1894.--R. G. T.

  [10] George Rogers Clark, who was repeatedly at Cahokia
       during the period 1778-80, says: "We easily and evidently
       traced the town for upwards of five miles in the beautiful
       plain below the present town of Kahokia. There could be no
       deception here, because the remains of ancient works were
       thick--the whole were mounds, etc." Clark's MS. statement;
       Schoolcraft's Indian Tribes, IV., p. 135.--L. C. D.

  [11] This mound was used, at least in part, for burial
       purposes. Nearly fifty years ago, when the writer of this note
       explored this remarkable artificial elevation of eighty feet in
       height, he found in the excavation numerous beads of shell or
       bone, or both, ornaments of the dead buried there.--L. C. D.

  [12] This proves nothing. A silver medal of John Quincy
       Adams's administration, evidently presented to some Indian
       chief was, in 1894, found in Wisconsin, twelve feet below the
       surface. Iron and silver tools and ornaments, evidently made in
       Paris for the Indian trade, have been found in Ohio and
       Wisconsin mounds. It is now sufficiently demonstrated that the
       mound-builders were the ancestors of the aborigines found in
       the country by the first white settlers, and that the mounds
       are of various ages, ranging perhaps from three hundred to a
       thousand years. Various Reports of the Bureau of Ethnology go
       into the matter with convincing detail.--R. G. T.

  [13] Jacob Wolf, in digging a well on Hacker's creek, found a
       piece of timber which had been evidently cut off at one end,
       twelve or thirteen feet in the ground--marks of the axe were
       plainly distinguishable on it.

[39] CHRONICLES OF BORDER WARFARE.

CHAPTER I

At the time when Virginia became known to the whites, it was occupied by many different tribes
of Indians, attached to different nations. That portion of the state lying north west of the
Blue ridge, and extending to the lakes was possessed by the Massawomees. These were a powerful
confederacy, rarely in amity with the tribes east of that range of mountains; but generally
harrassing them by frequent hostile irruptions into their country. Of their subsequent history,
nothing is now known. They are supposed by some to have been the ancestors of the Six Nations.
It is however more probable, that they afterwards became incorporated with these, as did several
other tribes of Indians, who used a language so essentially different from that spoken by the
Six Nations, as to render the intervention of interpreters necessary between them.

As settlements were extended from the sea shore, the Massawomees gradually retired; and when
the white population reached the Blue ridge of mountains, the valley between it and the Alleghany,
was entirely uninhabited. This delightful region of country was then only used as a hunting
ground, and as a highway for belligerant parties of different nations, in their military expeditions
against each other. In consequence of the almost continued hostilities between the northern
and southern Indians, these expeditions were very frequent, and tended somewhat to retard the
settlement of the valley, and render a residence in it, for some time, insecure and unpleasant.
Between the Alleghany mountains and the Ohio river, within the present limits of Virginia,
there were some villages interspersed, inhabited by small numbers of Indians; the most [40]
of whom retired north west of that river, as the tide of emigration rolled towards it. Some
however remained in the interior, after settlements began to be made in their vicinity.

North of the present boundary of Virginia, and particularly near the junction of the Alleghany
and Monongahela rivers, and in the circumjacent country the Indians were more numerous, and
their villages larger. In 1753, when Gen. Washington visited the French posts on the Ohio,
the spot which had been selected by the Ohio company, as the site for a fort, was occupied
by Shingess, king of the Delawares; and other parts of the proximate country, were inhabited
by Mingoes and Shawanees.[1] When the French were forced to abandon the position, which they
had taken at the forks of Ohio, the greater part of the adjacent tribes removed farther west.
So that when improvements were begun to be made in the wilderness of North Western Virginia,
it had been almost entirely deserted by the natives; and excepting a few straggling hunters
and warriors, who occasionally traversed it in quest of game, or of human beings on whom to
wreak their vengeance, almost its only tenants were beasts of the forest.

In the country north west of the Ohio river, there were many warlike tribes of Indians, strongly
imbued with feelings of rancorous hostility to the neighboring colonists. Among the more powerful
of these were the Delawares, who resided on branches of Beaver Creek, Cayahoga, and Muskingum;
and whose towns contained about six hundred inhabitants--The Shawanees, who to the number of
300, dwelt upon the Scioto and Muskingum--The Chippewas, near Mackinaw, of 400--Cohunnewagos,
of 300, and who inhabited near Sandusky--The Wyandots, whose villages were near fort St. Joseph,
and embraced a population of 250--The Twightees, near fort Miami, with a like population--The
Miamis, on the river Miami, near the fort of that name, reckoning 300 persons--The Pottowatomies
of 300, and the Ottawas of 550, in their villages near to forts St. Joseph and Detroit,[2]
and of 250, in the towns near Mackinaw. Besides these, there were in the same district of country,
others of less note, yet equally inimical to the whites; and who contributed much to the annoyance
[41] of the first settlers on the Ohio, and its tributaries.

There were likewise the Munsies, dwelling on the north branch of the Susquehanna, and on the
Allegheny river--The Senecas, on the waters of the Susquehanna, Ontario and the heads of the
Allegheny--The Cayugas, on Cayuga lake, and the Sapoonies, who resided in the neighborhood
of the Munsies. In these tribes was an aggregate population of 1,380 souls, and they likewise
aided in committing depredations on our frontiers.

Those who ventured to explore and occupy the south western portion of Virginia, found also
in its vicinity some powerful and warlike tribes. The Cherokees possessed what was then, the
western part of North Carolina and numbered 2,500--The Chicasaws, residing south of the Cherokees,
had a population of 750--and the Catawbas, on the Catawba river in South Carolina with only
150 persons. These latter were remarkably adventurous, enterprising and courageous; and notwithstanding
their remote situation, and the paucity of their numbers, frequently traversed the valley of
Virginia, and even penetrated the country on the north branch of the Susquehanna, and between
the Ohio river and lake Erie, to wage war upon the Delawares. Their success in many of these
expeditions, is preserved in the traditions of the Delawares, who continue to regard them as
having used in these wars, a degree of cunning and stratagem, to which other tribes have never
approached.[3]

Such were the numbers and positions of many of the proximate Indians about the time settlements
were begun to be [42] made on the Monongahela river and its branches. Anterior to this period,
adventurers had explored, and established themselves, in various parts of the valley between
the Blue ridge and the Alleghany mountain. That section of it, which was included within the
limits of the Northern-Neck, was the first to become occupied by the whites. The facilities
afforded by the proprietor for obtaining land within his grant, the greater salubrity of climate
and fertility of soil near to the Blue ridge, caused the tide of emigration to flow rapidly
towards the upper country, and roll even to the base of that mountain. Settlements were soon
after extended westwardly across the Shenandoah, and early in the eighteenth century Winchester
became a trading post, with sparse improvements in its vicinity.

About this time Thomas Morlin, a pedlar trading from Williamsburg to Winchester, resolved,
in conjunction with John Salling a weaver also from Williamsburg, to prosecute an examination
of the country, beyond the limits which had hitherto bounded the exploratory excursions of
other adventurers. With this view, they travelled up the valley of the Shenandoah, and crossing
James river and some of its branches, proceeded as far as the Roanoke, when Salling was taken
captive by a party of Cherokees. Morlin was fortunate enough to elude their pursuit, and effect
a safe retreat to Winchester.

Upon the return of the party by whom Salling had been captivated, he was taken to Tennessee
where he remained for some years. When on a hunting expedition to the Salt licks of Kentucky,
in company with some Cherokees to kill buffalo, they were surprised by a party of Illinois
Indians, with whom the Cherokees were then at war, and by them Salling was again taken prisoner.
He was then carried to Kaskaskia, when he was adopted into the family of a squaw whose son
had been killed in the wars.

While with this nation of Indians, Salling frequently accompanied parties of them on hunting
excursions, a considerable distance to the south. On several occasions he went with them below
the mouth of the Arkansas, and once to the Gulph of Mexico. In one of those expeditions they
met with a party of Spaniards, exploring the country and who needed an interpreter. For this
purpose they purchased Salling of his Indian mother for three strands of beads and a Calumet.
Salling attended them to the post at Crevecoeur; from which [43] place he was conveyed to fort
Frontignac: here he was redeemed by the Governor of Canada, who sent him to the Dutch settlement
in New York, whence he made his way home after an absence of six years.[4]

The emigration from Great Britain to Virginia was then very great, and at the period of Salling's
return to Williamsburg, there were then many adventurers, who had but recently arrived from
Scotland and the north of England. Among these adventurers were John Lewis[5] and John Mackey.
Salling's return excited a considerable and very general interest, and drew around him many,
particularly of those who had but lately come to America, and to whom the narrative of one,
who had been nearly six years a captive among the Indians, was highly gratifying. Lewis and
Mackey listened attentively to the description given of the country in the valley, and pleased
with its beauty and fertility as represented by Salling, they prevailed on him to accompany
them on a visit to examine it more minutely, and if found correspondent with his description
to select in it situations for their future residence.

Lewis made choice of, and improved, a spot a few miles below Staunton, on a creek which bears
his name--Mackey on the middle branch of the Shenandoah near Buffalo-gap; and Salling in the
forks of James river, below the Natural Bridge, where some of his descendants still reside.
Thus was effected the first white settlement ever made on the James river, west of the Blue
ridge.[6]

In the year 1736, Lewis, being in Williamsburg, met with Benjamin Burden (who had then just
come to the country as agent of Lord Fairfax, proprietor of the Northern Neck,) and on whom
he prevailed to accompany him home. Burden remained at Lewis's the greater part of the summer,
and on his return to Williamsburg, took with him a buffalo calf, which while hunting with Samuel[7]
and Andrew Lewis (elder sons of John) they had caught and afterwards tamed. He presented this
calf to Gov. Gooch, who thereupon entered on his journal, [44] an order, authorizing Burden
to locate conditionally, any quantity of land not exceeding 500,000 acres on any of the waters
of the Shenandoah, or of James river west of the Blue ridge. The conditions of this grant were,
that he should interfere with no previous grants--that he should settle 100 families, in ten
years, within its limits; and should have 1000 acres adjoining each cabin which he should cause
to be built, with liberty to purchase any greater quantity adjoining, at the rate of fifty
pounds per thousand acres. In order to effect a compliance with one of these conditions, Burden
visited Great Britain in 1737; and on his return to Virginia brought with him upwards of one
hundred families of adventurers, to settle on his grant.[8] Amongst these adventurers were,
John Patton, son-in-law to Benjamin Burden, who settled on Catawba, above Pattonsburg[9]--Ephraim
McDowell, who settled at Phoebe's falls--John, the son of Ephraim,[10] who settled at Fairfield,
where Col. James McDowell now lives--Hugh Telford, who settled at the Falling spring, in the
forks of James river--Paul Whitley, who settled on Cedar creek, where the Red Mill now is--Archibald
Alexander, who settled on the North river, opposite Lexington--Andrew Moore, who settled adjoining
Alexander--Sampson Archer, who settled at Gilmore's spring, east of the Bridge tavern, and
Capt. John Matthews, who married Betsy Archer, (the daughter of Sampson) settled where Major
Matthews lives, below the Natural bridge.

Among others who came to Virginia at this time, was an Irish girl named Polly Mulhollin. On
her arrival she was hired to James Bell to pay her passage; and with whom she remained during
the period her servitude was to continue. At its expiration she attired herself in the habit
of a man; and with hunting shirt and mocassons, went into Burden's grant, for the purpose of
making improvements and acquiring a title to land. Here she erected thirty cabins, by virtue
of which she held one hundred acres adjoining each. When Benjamin Burden the younger, came
on to make deeds to those who held cabin rights, he was astonished to see so many in the name
of Mulhollin. Investigation led to a discovery of the mystery, to the great mirth of the other
claimants. She resumed her christian name and feminine dress, and many of [45] her respectable
descendants still reside within the limits of Burden's grant.[11]

When in 1752 Robert Dinwiddie came over as governor of Virginia, he was accompanied by many
adventurers; among whom was John Stuart,[12] an intimate friend of Dinwiddie, who had married
the widow of John Paul (son of Hugh, bishop of Nottingham.) John Paul, a partizan of the house
of Stuart, had perished in the siege of Dalrymple castle in 1745, leaving three children--John,
who became a Roman catholic priest and died on the eastern shore of Maryland--Audley, who was
for ten years an officer in the British colonial forces,--and Polly, who married Geo. Matthews,
afterwards governor of Georgia. Mrs. Paul (formerly Jane Lynn, of the Lynns of Loch-Lynn, a
sister to the wife of John Lewis) had issue, by Stuart, John, since known as Col. Stuart of
Greenbrier, and Betsy, who became the wife of Col. Richard Woods of Albemarle.

The greater part of those, who thus ventured "on the untried being" of a wilderness life, were
Scottish presbyterian dissenters; a class of religionists, of all others perhaps, the most
remarkable for rigid morality. They brought with them, their religious principles, and sectional
prepossessions; and acting upon those principles acquired for their infant colony a moral and
devotional character rarely possessed by similar establishments. While these sectional prepossessions,
imbibed by their descendants, gave to their religious persuasions, an ascendency in that section
of country, which it still retains.

They were also men of industry and enterprise. Hunting, which too frequently occupies the time,
of those who make the forest their dwelling place, and abstracts the attention from more important
pursuits, was to them a recreation--not the business of life. To improve their condition, by
converting the woods into fertile plains, and the wilderness into productive meadows, was their
chief object. In the attainment of this, they were eminently successful. Their individual circumstances
became prosperous, and the country flourishing.

The habits and manners of the primeval inhabitants of any country, generally give to it a distinctive
character, which marks it through after ages. Notwithstanding the influx of strangers, bringing
with them prejudices and prepossessions, at variance with those of the community in which they
come; [46] yet such is the influence of example, and such the facility with which the mind
imbibes the feelings and sentiments of those with whom it associates, that former habits are
gradually lost and those which prevail in society, imperceptibly adopted by its new members.

In like manner, the moral and religious habits of those who accompanied Burden to Virginia,
were impressed on the country which they settled, and entailed on it that high character for
industry, morality and piety, which it still possesses, in an eminent degree.

At the time of the establishment of this settlement, all that part of Virginia lying west of
the Blue ridge mountains, was included in the county of Orange. At the fall session, of the
colonial legislature, in 1738, the counties of Frederick and Augusta were formed out of Orange--The
country included within the boundaries of the Potomac river, on the north, the Blue ridge,
on the east, and a line, to be run from the head spring of Hedgman, to the head spring of Potomac,
on the south and west, to be the county of Frederick; the remainder of the state west of the
Blue ridge, to the utmost limits of Virginia to constitute Augusta. Within its limits were
included, not only a considerable portion of Virginia as she now is, but an extent of territory
out of which has been already carved four states, possessing great natural advantages, and
the extreme fertility of whose soil, will enable them to support perhaps a more dense population,
than any other portion of North America of equal dimensions. As the settlements were extended,
subdivisions were made, 'till what was once Augusta county south east of the Ohio river, has
been chequered on the map of Virginia, into thirty-three counties with an aggregate population
of 289,362.[13]

[48] About the year 1749 there was in the county of Frederick, a man subject to lunacy, and
who, when laboring under the influence of this disease, would ramble a considerable distance
into the neighboring wilderness. In one of these wanderings he came on some of the waters of
Greenbrier river. Surprised to see them flowing in a westwardly direction, on his return to
Winchester he made known the fact, and that the country abounded very much with different kinds
of Game. In consequence of this information two men, recently from New England, visited the
country and took up their residence on the Greenbrier river.

Having erected a cabin and being engaged in making some other improvements, an altercation
arose, which caused Stephen Suel,[14] one of them, to forsake the cabin and abide for some
time in a hollow tree not far from the improvement, which was still occupied by his old companion.
They were thus situated in 1751, when John Lewis, of Augusta and his son Andrew were exploring
the country; to whom Suel made known the cause of their living apart, and the great pleasure
which he experienced now in their morning salutations, when issuing from their respective habitations;
whereas when they slept under the same roof, none of those kindly greetings passed between
them. Suel however did not long remain in the vicinity of Martin, the other of the two adventurers;
he moved forty miles west of his first improvement, and soon after fell a prey to Indian ferocity.
Martin is said to have returned to the settlements.

There was no other attempt made by the whites, to improve the Greenbrier country for several
years. Lewis and his son thoroughly examined it; and when permission was given to the Greenbrier
company (of which John Lewis was a member) to locate 100,000 acres, on the waters of this river,
they became agents to make the surveys and locations. The war between France and England in
1754 checked their proceedings; and when they, on the restoration of peace, would have resumed
them, they were interdicted by a royal proclamation, issued in 1761, commanding all those who
had made settlements on the western waters to remove from them; and those who were engaged
in making surveys to desist. Sound policy requiring, that a good understanding should be maintained
with the Indians (who claimed the country) to prevent a further cooperation on their part with
France.[15]

Previous to the issuing of this proclamation, some families had moved to Greenbrier and made
two settlements--the one on Muddy creek, the other in the Big-Levels. These, disregarding the
command of his royal majesty and rather regardless of their own safety, remained until they
were destroyed by the Indians, in 1763.[16] From this time 'till 1769 Greenbrier was altogether
uninhabited. Capt. John Stuart and a few other young men, then began to settle and improve
the country; and although attempts were subsequently made by the Indians to exterminate them,
yet they ever after continued in possession of it.

[49] In the year 1756 settlements were also made on New river and on Holstein.[17] Among the
daring adventurers who effected them, were Evan Shelby, William Campbell, William Preston and
Daniel Boone, all of whom became distinguished characters in subsequent history. Thomas Walden,[18]
who was afterwards killed on Clinch river and from whom the mountain dividing Clinch and Powel
rivers derived its name, was likewise one of them. The lands taken up by them, were held as
"corn rights" each acquiring a title to an hundred acres of the adjoining land, for every acre
planted in corn.

Nearly cotemporaneous with these establishments, was that at Galliopolis, on the north western
bank of the Ohio, and below Point Pleasant, at the mouth of the Great Kenhawa. This was made
by a party of French Jesuits, by whom the Indians were incited to make incursions, and commit
the most enormous barbarities on the then frontiers.[19] This place and the mouth of Great
Sandy were the chief points of rendezvous for the Ohio Indians. From the former of these places
they would ascend the Kenhawa and Greenbrier rivers, and from thence crossing the mountains
enter into Augusta; or after having ascended the Kenhawa, go up the New river, from which they
would pass over to the James and Roanoke. From the mouth of Great Sandy they would ascend that
river, and by the way of Bluestone fall over on the Roanoke and New river. From those two points,
expeditions were frequently made by the Indians, which brought desolation and death into the
infant settlements of the south west, and retarded their growth very much. In the spring of
1757 nearly the whole Roanoke settlement was destroyed by a party of Shawanees, who had thus
made their way to it.

That portion of the valley of Virginia in which establishments were thus begun to be made,
was at that time one continued forest; overspreading a limestone soil of great fertility; and
intersected by rivers affording extensive bottoms of the most productive alluvial land. Indeed
few rivers of equal size, are bordered with as wide and fertile levels of this formation of
earth, as those which water that section of country: the Roanoke particularly affords large
bodies of it, capable of producing in great abundance hemp, tobacco and the different kinds
of grain usually grown. In the country generally, every species of vegetable, to which the
climate was congenial, grew with great luxuriancy; while the calcareous nature of the soil,
adapted it finely to the production of that kind of grain, to which European emigrants were
mostly used.

The natural advantages of the country were highly improved by the persevering industry of its
inhabitants. Its forests, felled by untiring labor, were quickly reduced to profitable cultivation,
and the weeds which spontaneously sprang from the earth, were soon succeeded by the various
grasses calculated to furnish the most nutritious food, for the lowing herds with which their
farmers were early stocked; these yielded a present profit, and laid the sure foundation [50]
of future wealth. Some of the most extensive and successful graziers of Virginia, now inhabit
that country; and reap the rich reward of their management and industry, in the improved and
more contiguous market of Richmond.

In the infancy of these establishments, their only market was at Williamsburg. Thither the
early settlers packed their butter and poultry, and received in exchange salt, iron, and some
of the luxuries of life; their beef and other stock was taken to the same place. In the process
of time, as the country east of the Blue ridge became more improved, other markets were opened
to them; and the facilities of communication were gradually increased. Their successors have
already derived great advantage from those improvements; and the present generation will not
only witness their farther extension, but most probably see the country first tenanted by Lewis
and his cotemporaries, a great thoroughfare for the produce of several of the western states--a
link of communication between the Chesapeak bay and the Gulph of Mexico.

-----
   [1] King Shingiss was a famous village chief, "a terror to
       the frontier settlements of Pennsylvania." A brother, and later
       the successor of King Beaver, his camp was at the mouth of
       Beaver Creek, which empties into the Ohio twenty-six miles
       below "the forks" (site of Pittsburg). Christopher Gist visited
       him November 24, 1750. In 1759, when Fort Pitt was built,
       Shingiss moved up Beaver Creek to Kuskuskis on the Mahoning,
       and finally to the Muskingum. The land about the mouth of
       Beaver Creek is called "Shingis Old Town" in the Ft. Stanwix
       treaty, 1784.--R. G. T.

   [2] The numbers here set down and those given below, are as
       they were ascertained by Capt. Hutchins, who visited the most
       of the tribes for purpose of learning their population in
       1768.

   [3] A tradition among the Delawares says that formerly the
       Catawbas came near one of their hunting camps and remaining in
       ambush at night sent two or three of their party round the camp
       with Buffalo hoofs fixed to their feet, to make artificial
       buffalo tracks and thus decoy the hunters from their camp. In
       the morning the Delawares, discovering the tracks and supposing
       them to have been made by buffaloes, followed them some time;
       when suddenly the Catawbas rose from their covert, fired at and
       killed several of the hunters; the others fled, collected a
       party and went in pursuit of the Catawbas. These had brought
       with them, rattle snake poison corked up in a piece of cane
       stalk; into which they dipped small reed splinters, which they
       set up along their path. The Delawares in pursuit were much
       injured by those poisoned splinters, and commenced retreating
       to their camp. The Catawbas discovering this, turned upon their
       pursuers, and killed and scalped many of them.

   [4] John Peter Salling, sometimes spoken of as Peter Adam
       Salling, was, if not of German birth, of German descent. With
       his brother Henry, he early settled in the forks of James River
       and North Branch, in the southern part of what is now
       Rockbridge county, Va. The details of his early explorations in
       the West are involved in doubt, but that he had such adventures
       there seems no good reason to doubt. It will be noticed that
       Withers omits the date; some writers have placed it at about
       1724, but the probable time was 1738-40. His descendants told
       Draper (about 1850) that the family tradition was, that Salling
       and a son were employed by the governor of Virginia to explore
       the country to the southwest; and when near the present Salem,
       Roanoke county, they were captured by Cherokees and carried to
       the Ohio River--one account says by way of the Tennessee,
       another by the New (Great Kanawha), their boat being made of
       buffalo skins. They appear by this tradition to have escaped,
       and in descending the Mississippi to have fallen into the hands
       of Spaniards. The son died, and the father was sent in a vessel
       bound for Spain, there to be tried as a British spy; but the
       Spaniard being captured by an English vessel, our hero was
       landed at Charleston, whence he reached his frontier home after
       an absence of over three years. This story differs in many
       details from the one in Kercheval's History of the Valley of
       Virginia, and also that in Withers's text, above. Salling kept
       a journal which was extant in 1745, for in the Wisconsin
       Historical Society's library is a diary kept by Capt. John
       Buchanan, who notes that in that year he spent two days in
       copying a part of it. In Du Pratz' History of Louisiana
       (London, 1774), Salling and one John Howard are said to have
       made this trip in 1742, and the authority is said to be a
       Report of the Government of Virginia. But Salling must have
       returned home by 1742, for his name is in the roll of Capt.
       John McDowell's militia company, and he was probably in the
       fight with the Indians (Dec. 14) that year, in which McDowell
       lost his life. In 1746, we found Salling himself a militia
       captain in the Rockbridge district of Augusta county. In
       September, 1747, he was cited to appear at court martial for
       not turning out to muster--and this is the last record we have
       of him. Descendants, named Sallee, now live in Kentucky and
       Tennessee.--R. G. T.

   [5] John Lewis, the father of Gen. Andrew Lewis, was
       probably of Welsh descent, and born in 1678 in County
       Donegal, Ireland. About 1716 he married Margaret Lynn, of the
       famous Lynns of Loch Lynn, Scotland. In a dispute over his
       tenancy (1729), he killed a man of high station,--some say,
       his Catholic landlord,--and fled to Portugal, whence in 1731,
       after strange adventures, he emigrated to America, and was
       joined there by his family. Fearing to live near a sea-port
       he established himself on the frontier, in the Valley of
       Virginia, two miles east of the present site of Staunton.
       His house was of stone, built for defense, and in 1754 it
       successfully stood an Indian siege. Lewis was colonel of
       the Augusta county militia as early as 1743, presiding
       justice in 1745, and high sheriff in 1748. In 1751, then 73
       years of age, he assisted his son Andrew, then agent of the
       Loyal Company, to explore and survey the latter's grant on
       Greenbrier River. It was because the old man became entangled
       in the thicket of greenbriers, that he gave this name to the
       stream. He died at his old fort homestead, February 1, 1762,
       aged 84 years. Some accounts state that he was a Presbyterian;
       he was, however, an Episcopalian.--R. G. T.

   [6] Lewis soon afterwards obtained leave from Governor Gooch
       to locate 100,000 acres of land in separate parcels on the
       waters of the Shenandoah and James rivers; and when he would go
       out in search of good land to locate, Mackey would accompany
       him to hunt buffalo. The former amassed a large estate, while
       the latter lived and died in comparative poverty.

   [7] As Col. John Lewis had no son Samuel, probably Thomas
       Lewis, the elder brother of Andrew, though near-sighted, may
       have engaged in buffalo hunting.--L. C. D.

   [8] Of the origin of Benjamin Borden, Sr. (the name was
       mispronounced Burden, on the frontier), little is known. He was
       probably from New Jersey, and early became a fur trader on the
       Virginia frontier; later he was in Lord Fairfax's employ as a
       land agent. As such, he visited Governor Gooch and obtained
       from him several valuable tracts--one of them (October 3,
       1734), Borden Manor, on Sprout run, Frederick county; another,
       100,000 acres at the head of the James, on condition of
       locating thereon a hundred families. At the end of two years he
       had erected 92 cabins with as many families, and a patent was
       granted him November 8, 1739, for 92,100 acres. He died in
       1742, before further development of his enterprise. His son
       Benjamin succeeded to his vast estate, but died of small-pox in
       1753. In 1744, he married the widow of John McDowell, mentioned
       on the next page, who had been killed in the Indian fight of
       December 14, 1742.--R. G. T.

   [9] The daughter of John Patton subsequently became the wife
       of Col. W. Preston, and the mother of James Patton Preston,
       late a governor of Virginia.

       ------

       Comment by L. C. D.--This note of Mr. Withers, derived from
       Taylor's sketches (mentioned below), is erroneous both as to
       Patton and Preston. Col. Patton's first name was not John, but
       James, as both the records and his own autograph sufficiently
       attest. Neither did John Preston, nor his son Col. Wm. Preston,
       marry Col. Patton's daughter, but John Preston married his
       sister. Miss Elizabeth Patton, while crossing the Shannon in a
       boat, met the handsome John Preston, then a young ship
       carpenter, and an attachment grew out of their accidental
       meeting. But as Miss Patton belonged to the upper class of
       society, there was a wide gulf between their conditions, and a
       runaway match was the only way out of the difficulty. Gov.
       James Patton Preston was named after his grand-uncle. James
       Patton was born in County Londonderry, Ireland, in 1692. For
       many years he was a prosperous navigator, and crossed the
       Atlantic twenty-five times with "redemptioners" for Virginia;
       he was also an officer in the royal navy in the wars with the
       Netherlands. Having obtained a grant of 120,000 acres above the
       Blue Ridge, he himself settled in Virginia in 1735. A man of
       wealth, enterprise and influence, he was a justice, sheriff,
       Indian treaty commissioner, and finally county lieutenant of
       Augusta. In 1755, he was killed by Indians while conveying
       ammunition to the borderers.

  [10] Capt. John McDowell was of Scotch descent, and born in
       Ulster, Ireland, but in early manhood came to America, settling
       first in Pennsylvania, and then the Virginia Valley (autumn of
       1737). He at once became one of Benjamin Borden's surveyors,
       and for five years made surveys on Borden's Manor. Becoming a
       captain in the Augusta militia, he was ordered to go out
       against a party of Northern Indians who, on the war-path
       against the Catawbas, had taken in the Virginia Valley on their
       way, and annoyed and plundered the white settlers. The savages
       were overtaken on the North Branch of James River, some fifteen
       miles from McDowell's place, and an engagement ensued (Dec. 14,
       1742), in which McDowell and seven others lost their lives. The
       Indians escaped with small losses. This was the first battle
       between whites and Indians, in the Virginia Valley.--R. G. T.

  [11] This incident is well authenticated. See the deposition
       of Mrs. Mary Greenlee, preserved in the famous Borden land
       suit, among the court records of Augusta county, Va. Mrs.
       Greenlee was the sister of Capt. John McDowell, and among the
       very earliest settlers of that part of Augusta, now Rockbridge
       county. Mrs Greenlee's deposition is published in full in
       Peyton's History of Augusta County, Va. (Staunton, Va.,
       1882), pp. 69-74.--L. C. D.

  [12] The late Charles A. Stuart, of Greenbrier, son of Col.
       John Stuart, after the appearance of Hugh Paul Taylor's
       sketches over the signature of "Son of Cornstalk," published in
       the Staunton Spectator of August 21, 1829, over the signature
       of "Son of Blue Jacket," a brief criticism, in the nature of
       some corrections regarding his own family, to this effect: That
       Mrs. Jane Paul was no relative of Mrs. Margaret Lewis, wife of
       Col. John Lewis; that her first husband, Mr. Paul--not John,
       but probably Hugh Paul--was apparently from the north of
       Ireland--their son Audley Paul was born before the migration of
       the family to Pennsylvania; Mr. Paul, Sr., it is said, became
       the pastor of the Presbyterian congregation of Chester, in that
       province; but as Chester was a Quaker settlement, it is more
       likely that he located in some Presbyterian community in that
       region, and there must have died. Mrs. Paul, for her second
       husband, married Col. David Stuart, also from Ireland, by whom
       she had John Stuart and two daughters. Mrs. Stuart's
       grandchild, Charles A. Stuart, resided many years in Augusta,
       representing that county in the State senate, subsequently
       removed back to Greenbrier county, where he died about 1850, at
       the age of about sixty-five years. He was a man of sterling
       qualities.--L. C. D.

  [13] The following table exhibits a list of the several counties west
       of the Blue ridge--the counties from which each was taken--when
       established--their area in square miles--population in 1830, and
       amount of taxation for the same year.

       Counties.     From what        When    Area. Population. Taxation.
                     taken.           formed.

       Augusta,      Orange,          1738    948   19,925      6,734
       Alleghany,    Bath, Botetourt
                     and Monroe,      1822    521    2,816        526
       Bath,         Augusta,
                     Botetourt and
                     Greenbrier,      1791    795    4,068        865
       [47] Brooke,  Ohio,            1797    202    7,040      1,136
       Berkeley,     Frederick,       1772    308   10,528      3,356
       Botetourt,    Augusta,         1770   1057   16,354      3,809
       Cabell,       Kanawha,         1809   1033    5,884        629
       Frederick,    Orange,          1738    745   26,045      9,396
       Greenbrier,   Botet't &
                     Montg'ry,        1778   1409    9,059      1,716
       Giles,        Montgomery,
                     Monroe and
                     Tazewell,        1806    935    5,300        541
       Grayson,      Wythe,           1793    927    7,675        537
       Harrison,     Monongalia,      1784   1095   14,713      1,669
       Hampshire,    Augusta &
                     Fred'k,          1754    989   11,279      2,402
       Hardy,        Hampshire,       1786   1156    5,700      2,633
       Jefferson,    Berkeley,        1801    225   12,927      4,721
       Kanawha,      Greenb'r &
                     M'tg'ry,         1789   2090    9,334      1,453
       Lewis,        Harrison,        1816   1754    6,241        630
       Logan,        Giles, Kanawha,
                     Cabell &
                     Tazewell,        1824   2930    3,680        245
       Lee,          Russell,         1793    512    9,461        789
       Monongalia,   District of
                     W. A'g'ta,       1776    721   14,056      1,492
       Monroe,       Greenbrier,      1799    614    7,798      1,158
       Morgan,       Berkeley and
                     Hampshire,       1820    271    2,702        546
       Montgomery,   Fincastle,       1777   1089   12,306      1,666
       Mason,        Kanawha,         1804    904    6,534        915
       Nicholas,     Kanawha,
                     Greenbrier and
                     Randolph,        1818   1431    3,338        373
       Ohio,         District of
                     W. A'g'ta,       1776    375   15,590      1,968
       Preston,      Monongalia,      1818    601    5,144        441
       Pendleton,    Augusta, Hardy
                     and Rockingham,  1788    999    6,271      1,120
       Pocahontas,   Bath, Pendleton
                     and Randolph,    1821    794    2,542        405
       Randolph,     Harrison,        1787   2061    5,000        644
       Russell,      Washington,      1786   1370    6,717        739
       Rockingham,   Augusta,         1778    833   20,663      5,056
       Rockbridge,   Augusta &
                     Botetourt,       1778    680   14,244      3,276
       Scott,        Lee, Russell and
                     Washington,      1814    624    5,712        503
       Shenandoah,   Frederick,       1772    767   19,750      4,922
       Tyler,        Ohio,            1814    855    4,308        757
       Tazewell,     Russell & Wythe, 1799   1305    5,573        727
       Washington,   Fincastle,       1777   1754   15,614      2,918
       Wythe,        Montgomery,      1790   1998   12,163      2,178
       Wood,         Harrison,        1799   1223    6,418      1,257

       Total,                                      378,293     76,848

  [14] Little and Big Sewell mountains, dividing Fayette and
       Greenbrier counties, seem to perpetuate the name and memory of
       this early and adventurous pioneer. Col. John Stuart states,
       that Sewell's final settlement was forty miles west of his
       primitive one, and on a creek bearing his name originating in
       Sewell mountain, and flowing into Gauley. Col. Preston, in his
       Register, gives September, 1756, as the date of Stephen
       Sewell's death by the Indians, and Jackson's River as the
       locality. Donatello may, at least for the monuments in Florence and Naples, the draft charge
of the figurative part, in the execution can be only of the great Michelozzo cast in bronze grave
figure of the Pope, and the small relief of the Assumption of the sarcophagus of the tomb in
Naples for Donatello certainly benefit from them, everything Other is here, as in the 1428
order, not particularly original marble sarcophagus of Giovanni de 'Medici in the sacristy of
S. Lorenzo and the Thomas niche at Or San Michele, by Michelozzo and subordinate assistants, as Portigiani
executed.

[Figure: 39 Marble relief of the Madonna by Donatello.]

[Figure: 42 Marble relief of the Madonna by Donatello's pupil.]

In that Ascension relief, while in the famous bronze relief of the dance Salome at Quercia's baptismal
font in San Giovanni at Siena (1427; similar relief in marble in the museum at Lille) Donatello first
had his extraordinary talent for composition figure-rich descriptions in order, perspective, relief
style and especially in the dramatic show recovery of the creative. Also, these works (especially
the bronze statuettes at the same well) how different their relationship to the same time be classified
Monuments (the large painted stone relief of the Annunciation in Sat Croce, the angel with the
body Christ and the small stucco relief of the Madonna with saints and angels playing in the
S. Kensington Museum excellent) by unusual sense of beauty in the types as in the attitude and Drapery,
which is paired with a high gravity. The Berlin Museum has various Works that bear the characteristics
of this period, primarily Madonna reliefs. Personal delivery is made after the masterly treatment,
the large marble relief of the Madonna Casa Pazzi (No. 39), probably the earliest of these works.
A second marble relief (No. 42) Palazzo Orlandini, in contrast, shows the execution of the hand
of a student. The same applies a Thonrelief (No. 43), the replica of a student after a lost,
even in plaques (No. 700) received Donatello's composition from this period. More importantly a
marble relief of Christ Stäupung (39a), the composition of a premonition
of the known Fresco by Sebastiano del Piombo, and comes close in the
treatment of the nude even Michelangelo.

In 1432 Donatello was called from a child cause to Rome. The Stay here, which extends until the following
year was, of determining importance for its development. After the leaves (only certified) stay
in Rome, a particularly Energetic study of the ancient track in his works, of course, expresses
the same less in the form as in the motifs. Thus in the large tabernacle in St. Peter to Rome,
which it on the spot next to a grave stone in Araceli and a relief of keys (Now in the South Kensington
Museum) pointed out, the relief of the Lamentation of Christ in close connection composed of
Roman sarcophagus representations. According to the ancient spirits, he makes his putt order
with which he now animates his compositions in abundance. Does this have to be That tabernacle,
so comes the new concept even further with the completion of the (since 1428) back into communion
with Michelozzo and Portigiani executed reliefs with dancing angels on the outside of the
cathedral pulpit at Prato advantage. Above all it is but to bear in the similar motifs on the
famous Florentine pulpit (1433-1440), the bronze figure of Amor, which he directly access and emulation
with antiquity for Cosimo de 'Medici modeled, and in the stone medallions of Mediceerpalastes
he cameos in to Cosimo's Possession was run and all working, probably after the first few years
of his Return from Rome emerged. A characteristic example of Donatello in this Time to ancient
motifs own vivid compositions has designed, the Berlin Museum in a small bronze relief with
putti playing (No. 698) exhibit.

[Figure: 39A. Thonrelief painted the Madonna by Donatello.]

goes to the first time after returning from Rome, probably a second executed for Cosimo Bronze
statue of David in the Bargello back, the first statue of the Renaissance, in which a naked
youthful freshness and body similar in make peace, as in the heyday of Greek art is shown. By
the same patron Donatello received at this time also commissioned to decorate the sacristy of San
Lorenzo, his friend Brunellesco had just completed. The bust of St. Lorenz, four large medallions with
rich compositions at the dome, the four Evangelists in the spandrels, two reliefs, each with
two single saints, and the two Bronzethüren are of Donatello's hand
and were probably all still completed before his departure for Padua.

[Figure: 38A. Painted Thonbüste of John of Donatello.]

In preparing the models for his bronze work, when the sketches of the works, which assistants had exported,
Donatello get pleasure from working in clay, which he quickly of the hand was, his thoughts full
freshness expressing and rich painting, how he loved her, made it possible. In the sacristy of San Lorenzo,
he led all the decorations so the ceilings and walls made of clay. At the same time he modeled
the same material in a series of larger Madonna reliefs and busts. The Berlin collection has
one of the Madonna reliefs, than-life figures who, by their almost perfectly preserved and
beautiful painting Gold are excellent (No. 39A). Also, the Museum of the painted Thonbüste adolescent
John (No. 38A), a famous busts of Uzzano in the Bargello and unknown woman in the South Kensington
Museum in conception and treatment closely related work exhibit. The stucco relief No. 46 (probably
a smaller replica of the time) has a the other madonna felt especially
great compositions of the period of the artist, by which the Louvre
Museum and the Kensington also have some excellent examples.

[Figure: 46 Stucco relief of the Madonna by Donatello.]

All this as the beginning of the forties resulting works, which probably also the curious Bronze
is reckoned among the group of Judith in the Loggia de 'Lanzi at Florence, Donatello shows at the
height of the dramatic view in full control and freedom of artistic Embodiment of that inner
excitement, which in the single figure so powerful and yet so modest expresses it, they show it
at the same time in formal education through the form as a full Champion,
brings his skills with fine restraint and noble taste advantage.

The Works of that period and the following years, they are closely
related call, well the culmination of the art of Donatello and the
entire early Renaissance.

[Photo: equestrian statue of Gattamelata by Donatello in Padua.]

In 1443 Donatello was called to a task that, as for himself, so also for the development of Renaissance
art, a new major step of all: the bronze Equestrian statue of the deceased in Padua Venetian Condottiere
Gattamelata to its execution the artist moved to Padua in 1444. Nearly a decade passed over
this work, draws on their breaks Donatello including the rich bronze jewelry for the high altar
of Santo: the crucifix and five statues, symbols of the Evangelists, four reliefs with miracles
of St.. Antonius and twelve panels with angels, finally a major Grablegungsrelief in clay. The
Equestrian statue is not only as the first work of this kind since the ancient times of epoch-making
Significance, but in itself the truth of life in horse and rider, by the way the Artists in the whole
shape of the individual and make Gattamelata the generals, the Battle Handlebar has presented as such,
one of the greatest monuments of all time. Among the bronzes of the high altar, which most often
through the collaboration of some very minor Assistants are affected more or less belong, but some
of the statues, including the crucifix, and the large burial, and many figures of the four reliefs
with the wonders of St. Anthony, Donatello's best performances, the latter particularly through
the dramatic Design of the difficult subjects, the clear grouping of the numerous characters,
the skillful perspective arrangement in space, the multiplicity of
forms and of its formation.

Through this activity in Padua Donatello not only the plastic, but (by his Influence on Mantegna),
the painting in northern Italy driven in new directions.

The Berlin collection has little from this period of his stay in Padua, in addition to the Bronze
relief of the Stäupung Christ (No. 699) a greater Donatello's bronze work: by their unvarnished
truth surprising bust of the art-loving Margrave Ludwig III. of Mantua (No. 40), which probably,
like a similar bust of the same man who owned created by ME André in Paris, as preliminary work
for an equestrian statue of the prince, as Donatello was the year 1450/51 busy for him in Mantua.
To the execution of such Monument (on the news but are not documented
received), it is certainly well little bit long, like at the equestrian
monument of Borso d'Este, which the artist simultaneously Order was
given for Modena.

[Illustration: Bronze Relief at the high altar in the Santo in Padua by Donatello.]

Back in Florence, Donatello, despite its age, a number of important Works created when he also had
to leave their execution now mostly students. First He went (1457) to the execution of a task
that he has been made decades earlier was: the bronze statue of John the Baptist for the baptistery
of the cathedral of Siena, probably the greatest, although the sharpest among the numerous forms
of this saint, which we of his hand . Thanks About the same time the related wood statue of St. arose.
Jerome in the Pinacoteca to Faenza. The delicious Thonskizze an altar with the Stäupung and
crucifixion of Christ at the Kensington Museum, and a small related sketch of the Crucifixion,
the damaged only by Stuck replica in the museum (No. 41) is obtained, appear like preparatory work
on the last great act of his life to the two bronze pulpits, which Donatello for Cosimo said in San Lorenzo.
From the hand of his pupil Bertoldo and Bellano in little happier As completed and ciseliert,
together with crude and clumsy interventions only in later time but most of these compositions
from the Passion of Christ are excellent, both by the pictorial representation of the very
many figures scenes, such as the dramatic narrative deep passions aroused, that the gay themes from
the lives of children in the Fries fortunate ways contrast. Of course, betraying the restless drapery,
the triangular folds, like wrinkled paper appear, and the flat relief
treatment (the "baked"

       Relief) the manner to increase custom, in the modeling clay to work
with.

* * * * *

[Figure: 40 Bronze bust of Lodovico III. Gonzaga by Donatello.]

As Donatello in 1466 at the age of 80 years died, he had designed the sculpture of Italy from
scratch and, indirectly, to influence the development of painting
practice.

The incorruptible Ernst nature of his studies, his incisive, honest
characteristics, his talent for dramatic Description, its type of
plastic treatment had the most peers had acted especially provisions
to all young artists.

That she almost everyone in their way follows that every new and created large, is not the slightest
triumph of art direction Donatello.

[Figure: 49 Madonna relief by Donatello.]

Under his successors Donatello's employees are usually of lesser talent, they imitate their model too
often after the outward appearance, they exaggerate the point of caricature. This is especially
true of some of us by name not known sculptors who appear to in the thirties and forties to Donatello in relationship
grew, and the us yet including through a series of Madonna reliefs known. The oldest of these artists,
regularly worked in marble (the same as his teacher), is particularly strong caricature conspicuous
and clumsy in the proportions of his figures, the deterrent ugly types . Show The great relief of the
Madonna in the Medici Chapel of S. Croce has a particularly characteristic Work, the other Madonna at
the Kensington Museum, and in our collection (No. 44, and the stucco relief No. 45, are the original marble-André
in Paris in ME) closely related. Perhaps also the great relief of the Madonna on a side portal
of the cathedral in Siena from his hand. Interest offers this artist only in that almost all his
works more or less faithful replicas Donatello's compositions seem to be that we are not usually
receive. Probably this unknown is the assistant, the Donatello's mythological compositions
in the courtyard of the Palazzo. Medici said in marble. A younger and went Terer successor
related direction, the Madonna reliefs are characteristically executed in clay, the artist
who created the Madonna modeled in a tabernacle in the Via Pietra
Piana, Florence. is by his hand in the Berlin collection, perhaps
the Thonrelief of the Madonna and Child standing (No. 50); used is
the lesser relief of the Madonna (No. 54) and in particular the significant
Adoration of the Child (No. 47).

[Figure: 60A. Madonna relief by Donatello's a successor.]

Independent than they are the former employees Donatello's, the first since 1421 to the Statues
of the Campanile next to and together with active Donatello Giovanni
di Bartolo, called Rosso (d. after 1451).

While the artists in these statues directly to simultaneous Donatello's
work inspired, he is in his tomb in Verona Brenzoni strange, but in
the shape even more strongly influenced by the fourteenth century.

[Figure: 59 Stucco relief of the Madonna with angels of Ag. di Duccio.]

Michelozzo Michelozzi (1391-1472), foremost architect, but due to its high technical Talent of
the Florentine sculptors in particular used for implementation of their Erzgüsse, Donatello has
also since the beginning of the twenties until his long-standing Distance from Florence worked.
The three major Marmorgrabmäler (see p. 59) carried out essentially by his hand, well designed and in
their construction of it. From the comparison with the rich sculptures of these monuments can
also be the Michelozzo Scattered small sculptures assign, as the statue of John the Baptist in a court
of the Annunziata (The certified silver statuette at the altar in the Opera del Duomo quite appropriately),
and various Madonna reliefs, of which the most beautiful models in clay, and with perfectly
preserved effective painting, in the Berlin collection is (No. 58). Even a painted stucco relief
in the round (No. 58A) probably gives an older composition of Michelozzo again. In richer, moving
Completely unsatisfactory compositions, the artist is in his single figures, the free figures
such relief, the architect of a border make peace betrayal, of great
union of the garments, of serious, sometimes even great view, though
usually without full recovery, so He appears slightly sober and monotonous.

Characteristic of the artist's strong Half relief.

The assistant's Michelozzo in those with Donatello acquired jointly monuments, Pagno Tues Lapo
Portigiani (1406-1470) is as artisan sculptors, as another assistant Donatello's, executed the
marble altar in the sacristy of San Lorenzo. Also Buggiano (Andrea di Lazzaro Cavalcanti, 1412-1462),
the pupil and adopted son Brunellesco's is, in its marble work, especially in the two wells
in the cathedral sacristy, a coarse successor Donatello's. A slightly younger artists, Agostino
di Duccio (1418 up to 1481), has be unsteady early life in exile as the art of his master outside
of Tuscany disseminated. Over Modena, Rimini (the rich interior decoration of San Francesco), in Perugia
He develops a very comprehensive pictorial activity. Without a sense of subtle naturalistic
Through education, in the execution of regular volatile, with slim figures in its over the
many long and delicate folds of the garments often downright mannered, has the artist but a peculiar
charm from the rich fantastic invention, the living and sometimes even exciting way of understanding,
the piquant vigorous exchange between high-relief and painterly bas-relief. The treated in the
latter way stucco relief in the Berlin Museum: the Madonna and Child, which the angels use (No.
59), is as characteristic as attractive as the art of Agostino, and it is closely related to
a marble relief with the same subject in the Museo dell 'Opera in Florence and a second relief
of the Madonna in a Church in France.

A previously unknown successor in name Donatello's, the most independent and far more most important
of them is thus of particular interest that in his genre-like Representation of the child goes
to the execution of real genre groups: most competing children of crude ugly forms (No. 106D).
In his Madonna statues the Christ child is also peasant in the form and manner, however, strikingly
lovely mother (No. 106B) or even great in motion as in expression
and drapery (No. 106E).

       Major works of this original Artist did not have so far demonstrated.

* * * * *

[Illustration: 106B. Thonstatuette of a Donatello Madonna's successor.]

Donatello's firmer naturalism would, perhaps, as we do most of these students and successor,
see the development of Florentine sculpture in an overly naturalistic, about the quest for
originality and truth regardless of beauty and dimension forgettable Direction have urged, if not a
younger artist in his extraordinarily long and fruitful career just these characteristics in his
sculptures with a special happiness and would have maintained energy. Luca della Robbia (1399-1482),
who - as far as we know - only his nephew, a student Andrea drew large, has just those properties
by the Further development of Florentine sculpture, especially on the younger, dependent on
Donatello Artists have a favorable influence practiced. Famous and already extremely popular
in his time by the invention, painted with a weather-resistant Thonbildwerke glaze to coat,
he is just as clever and as often as busy as in marble in bronze works have been. The famous
bas-reliefs with the singing and children playing in the second vocalist Tribune of the cathedral,
which were 1431-1440, to the relief ordered in 1437 the back of the Campanile, a pair of simultaneous
(unfinished at heart) for a relief Altar of the Cathedral (now in the Bargello), and, in its
essential parts, the Tabernacle in Peretola (1442) and the tomb of Bishop Federighi in S. Francesco
di Paola (appointed 1456) are the work of Luca in marble, and the doors of the Domsakristei,
which he commissioned in 1446 were given (not completed until 1467), we have one of the most
excellent work of the bronze Quattrocento. Of the almost countless Thonbildwerken glazed to
the outside and Luca Italy will be attributed, are the famous Thürlünetten the sacristy of the
cathedral in Florence (1443 and 1446), the angel with the candelabra ibid (1448), the Portallünette
in San Domenico at Urbino (c. 1450) documented certified Luca's work, the relief in the Pazzi Chapel
at Sat Croce and in the chapel of the Cardinal of Portugal in San Miniato can ascribe to the time of
their creation, only Luca.

The artistic nature, which is in all these works very sharp, can
be matched by the character in addition a significant number of glazed
unglazed as Thonbildwerken and stucco reliefs seen in Florence in
the collections outside Italy as Luca's works.

[Illustration: 106E. Thonstatuette painted the Madonna of a follower of Donatello]

In all these works, Luca stands between his older contemporaries Ghiberti and Donatello approximately
in the center, with Ghiberti, he has the taste in the arrangement, the high sense of beauty,
the easy flow of full garments together, the Donatello he is in earnest observation of nature,
close in the fresh and vivid characteristic, which he is not the least of which model owes. The
fine in moderation relief (usually a half relief), the beauty of his Figures and the distinguished Ernst
in expression and posture to bring the classic artists of the Greek art nearby. But this relationship is
based not on an intimate Studies or even imitation of antiquity, the Luca among his contemporaries
particularly remote seems to have been: it is rather the outcome
of a similar artistic way of looking at and connects with him with
a totally unique and fresh naturalism.

His compositions, its various forms, therefore, appear so little
variety him most of the tasks provided, always new and true to life.

[Figure: 114 Stucco relief of the Madonna with Saints by Luca della Robbia.]

The best proof of this offer works by the artist in the Berlin collection,
different Original works in glazed or unglazed clay, and a larger
number of plaster replicas as repetitions of lost or missing originals
have a special value. The majority of these sculptures and a displays
the same motif: Madonna and child, alone or middle devout worshiping
angels or saints.

When Major Grant with his men had been ordered on to Du Quesne, the main army had been left
at Raystown, where it continued for some time; an advance was however posted at fort Ligonier.
Between this vanguard and the detachment from Du Quesne there was a partial engagement, which
resulted in the loss of some of the Maryland troops. Fort Ligonier was then closely watched
by the French and Indians, and several of the sentinels were killed, before the point from
which the fires were directed, was discovered; it was at length ascertained that parties of
the enemy would creep under the bank of the Loyal Hanna till they could obtain a position from
which to do execution. Some soldiers were then stationed to guard this point, who succeeded
in killing two Indians, and in wounding and making prisoner of one Frenchman. From him the
English obtained information that the greater part of the Indians had left Du Quesne, and that
the fort was defenceless: the army then moved forward and taking possession of its ruins established
thereon Fort Pitt.[13] The country around began immediately to be settled, and several other
forts were erected to protect emigrants, and to keep the Indians in awe.

Previous to this an attempt had been made by David Tygart and a Mr. Files to establish themselves
on an upper branch of the Monongahela river.[14] They had been for some time frontier's men,
and were familiar with the scenes usually exhibited on remote and unprotected borders; and
nothing daunted by the cruel murders and savage enormities, which they had previously witnessed,
were induced by some cause, most probably the uninterrupted enjoyment of the forest in the
pursuit of game, to venture still farther into the wilderness. About the year 1754 these two
men with their families arrived on the east fork of the Monongahela, and after examining the
country, selected positions for their future residence. Files chose a spot on the river, at
the mouth of a creek which still bears his name, where Beverly, the county seat of Randolph
has been since established. Tygart settled a few miles farther up and also on the river. The
valley in which they had thus taken up their abode, has been since called Tygart's [59] valley,
and the east fork of the Monongahela, Tygart's-valley river.

The difficulty of procuring bread stuffs for their families, their contiguity to an Indian
village, and the fact that an Indian war path passed near their dwellings, soon determined
them to retrace their steps.[15] Before they carried this determination into effect, the family
of Files became the victims of savage cruelty. At a time when all the family were at their
cabin, except an elder son, they were discovered by a party of Indians, supposed to be returning
from the South Branch, who inhumanly butchered them all.[16] Young Files being not far from
the house and hearing the uproar, approached until he saw, too distinctly, the deeds of death
which were doing; and feeling the utter impossibility of affording relief to his own, resolved
if he could, to effect the safety of Tygart's family. This was done and the country abandoned
by them.

Not long after this, Doctor Thomas Eckarly and his two brothers came from Pennsylvania and
camped at the mouth of a creek, emptying into the Monongahela, 8 or 10 miles below Morgantown;
they were Dunkards, and from that circumstance, the watercourse on which they fixed themselves
for a while, has been called Dunkard's creek. While their camp continued at this place, these
men were engaged in exploring the country; and ultimately settled on Cheat river, at the Dunkard
bottom. Here they erected a cabin for their dwelling, and made such improvements as enabled
them to raise the first year, a crop of corn sufficient for their use, and some culinary vegetables:
their guns supplied them with an abundance of meat, of a flavor as delicious as the refined
palate of a modern epicure could well wish. Their clothes were made chiefly of the skins of
animals, and were easily procured: and although calculated to give a grotesque appearance to
a fine gentleman in a city drawing room; yet were they particularly suited to their situation,
and afforded them comfort.

Here they spent some years entirely unmolested by the Indians, although a destructive war was
then raging, and prosecuted with cruelty, along the whole extent of our frontier. At length
to obtain an additional supply of ammunition, salt and shirting, Doctor Eckarly left Cheat,
with a pack of furs and skins, to visit a trading post on the Shenandoah. On his return, he
stopped at Fort Pleasant, on the South Branch; and having communicated to its inhabitants the
place of his residence, and the length of time he had been living there, he was charged with
being in confederacy with the Indians, and probably at that instant a spy, examining the condition
of the fort. In vain the Doctor protested his innocence and the fact that he had not even seen
an Indian in the country; the suffering condition [59] of the border settlements, rendered
his account, in their opinion improbable, and he was put in confinement.

The society, of which Doctor Eckarly was a member, was rather obnoxious to a number of the
frontier inhabitants. Their intimacy with the Indians, although cultivated with the most laudable
motives, and for noble purposes, yet made them objects at least of distrust to many. Laboring
under these disadvantages, it was with difficulty that Doctor Eckarly prevailed on the officer
of the fort to release him; and when this was done he was only permitted to go home under certain
conditions--he was to be escorted by a guard of armed men, who were to carry him back if any
discovery were made prejudicial to him. Upon their arrival at Cheat, the truth of his statement
was awfully confirmed. The first spectacle which presented itself to their view, when the party
came within sight of where the cabin had been, was a heap of ashes. On approaching the ruins,
the half decayed, and mutilated bodies of the poor Dunkards, were seen in the yard; the hoops,
on which their scalps had been dried, were there, and the ruthless hand of desolation had waved
over their little fields. Doctor Eckarly aided in burying the remains of his unfortunate brothers,
and returned to the fort on the South Branch.

In the fall of 1758, Thomas Decker and some others commenced a settlement on the Monongahela
river, at the mouth of what is now, Decker's creek. In the ensuing spring it was entirely broken
up by a party of Delawares and Mingoes; and the greater part of its inhabitants murdered.

There was at this time at Brownsville a fort, then known as Redstone fort, under the command
of Capt. Paul.[17] One of Decker's party escaped from the Indians who destroyed the settlement,
and making his way to Fort Redstone, gave to its commander the melancholy intelligence. The
garrison being too weak to admit of sending a detachment in pursuit, Capt. Paul despatched
a runner with the information to Capt. John Gibson, then stationed at Fort Pitt. Leaving the
fort under the command of Lieut. Williamson, Capt. Gibson set out with thirty men to intercept
the Indians, on their return to their towns.

In consequence of the distance which the pursuers had to go, and the haste with which the Indians
had retreated, the expedition failed in its object; they however accidentally came on a party
of six or seven Mingoes, on the head of Cross Creek in Ohio (near Steubenville)--these had
been prowling about the river, below Fort Pitt, seeking an opportunity of committing depredations.[18]
As Capt. Gibson passed the point of a small knoll, just after day break, he came unexpectedly
upon them--some of them were lying down; the others were sitting round a fire, making thongs
of green hides. Kiskepila or Little Eagle, a Mingo chief, headed the party. So soon as he discovered
Capt. Gibson, he raised the war whoop and fired [61] his rifle--the ball passed through Gibson's
hunting shirt and wounded a soldier just behind him. Gibson sprang forward, and swinging his
sword with herculean force, severed the head of the Little Eagle from his body--two other Indians
were shot down, and the remainder escaped to their towns on Muskingum.

When the captives, who were restored under the treaty of 1763, came in, those who were at the
Mingo towns when the remnant of Kiskepila's party returned, stated that the Indians represented
Gibson as having cut off the Little Eagle's head with a long knife. Several of the white persons
were then sacrificed to appease the manes of Kiskepila; and a war dance ensued, accompanied
with terrific shouts and bitter denunciations of revenge on "the Big knife warrior." This name
was soon after applied to the Virginia militia generally; and to this day they are known among
the north western Indians as the "Long knives," or "Big knife nation."[19]

These are believed to have been the only attempts to effect a settlement of North Western Virginia,
prior to the close of the French war. The capture of Fort du Quesne and the erection and garrisoning
of Fort Pitt, although they gave to the English an ascendency in that quarter; yet they did
not so far check the hostile irruptions of the Indians, as to render a residence in this portion
of Virginia, by any means secure.--It was consequently not attempted 'till some years after
the restoration of peace in 1765.

-----
   [1] This is misleading. The author has told us, in the
       preceding chapter, of several attempts of English coast
       colonists to make transmontane settlements, quite apart from
       thought of ousting the French. Englishmen had no sooner landed
       in America than they attempted to cross the Western mountain
       barrier. Ralph Lane made the attempt in 1586, Christopher
       Newport and John Smith in 1606, and Newport himself in 1607.
       John Lederer, a German surgeon exploring for Governor Berkeley,
       of Virginia, reached the top of Blue Ridge in 1609, but did not
       descend the western slope. Two years later, Abraham Wood
       discovered the Great Kanawha. It is possible that the French
       Jesuit Le Moyne was on the Alleghany River as early as 1656. La
       Salle was probably at the Falls of the Ohio (Louisville) in
       1669. But it was not until about 1700 that French and English
       fur-traders met in open rivalry on the Ohio. It was with no
       thought of the French that Governor Spottswood, of Virginia,
       passed over the Blue Ridge in 1714. The situation in short, was
       this: The English colonists early wanted the over-mountain
       country watered by the Ohio, but were too weak at first to hold
       for agricultural settlement lands so far from home, in the face
       of a savage foe. The French wanted the valley solely for the
       fur trade, but Iroquois opposition long kept them from
       entering; when at last they were able to do so, the English
       colonists had also grown strong enough to move in, and then
       ensued the long and bloody struggle in which New France
       fell.--R. G. T.

   [2] In the journal (drawn up for the inspection of Gov.
       Dinwiddie) of the events of his mission to the commander of the
       French forces on the Ohio; this was the first of those splendid
       acts of a public nature, performed by Gen. Washington.

   [3] Only five companies of the first Virginia regiment
       served on Braddock's campaign--hence there was no second
       regiment, nor any Colonel Russell engaged in that service; there
       was, however, at this period, a Colonel or Lieut.-Colonel
       William Russell, who emigrated from England when a young lawyer,
       to Virginia, about 1710, and settled in Culpeper, and by the
       readjustment of county lines he was thrown into the new county
       of Orange. He was a man of much prominence, and at one time was
       high sheriff of Orange; and apparently lieutenant-colonel of
       militia, and as such, in the early part of the French and
       Indian War, did some frontier service, though rather advanced
       in years at the time. In 1753, he was sent as a commissioner
       to pacify the Indians in the region where Pittsburg was
       subsequently located. He died October 18, 1757, aged about
       seventy-two years. His son of the same name served with
       reputation at the battle of Point Pleasant, and during the
       Revolutionary War, retiring at its close with the brevet rank
       of brigadier-general.--L. C. D.

   [4] It has already been stated that Col. John Lewis's eldest
       son was Thomas, not Samuel.--L. C. D.

   [5] Capt. John McDowell was killed in an engagement with the
       Indians, in December, 1742, and of course could not have served
       under either Andrew or Charles Lewis.--L. C. D.

   [6] James Smith, afterwards Col. Smith of Bourbon county in
       Kentucky, was then a prisoner at du Quesne. He says that the
       Indians in council planned the attack on Braddock's army and
       selected the ground from which to make it--that the assailants
       did not number more than 400 men, of whom but a small
       proportion were French. One of the Indians laughed when he
       heard the order of march in Braddock's army, and said "we'll
       shoot them down all as one pigeon." Washington beheld the event
       in fearful anticipation, and exerted himself in vain with Gen.
       Braddock, to alter the order of march.

   [7] It is evident that the author never saw the site of
       Braddock's defeat, just below the mouth of Turtle Creek, for
       his description is quite inaccurate. June 30, 1755, the army,
       which had been following the Ohio Company's road from Will's
       Creek, via East Meadows, crossed the Youghiogheny and
       proceeding in a devious course struck the head of Turtle Creek,
       which was followed nearly to its mouth, whence a southern
       course was taken to avoid the steep hills. Reaching the
       Monongahela just below the mouth of the Youghiogheny, they
       crossed (July 9) to the west side, where there is a long,
       narrow bottom. Nearly opposite the mouth of Turtle Creek, and
       about four miles below the first crossing, hills again closely
       approach the west bank, and the east side becomes the more
       favorable for marching. Here, only eight miles across country
       from Fort Duquesne, Braddock forded the second time, and in
       angling up the rather easy slope upon which is now built the
       busy iron-making town of Braddock, Pa., was obliged to pass
       through a heavily-wooded ravine. This was the place of the
       ambuscade, where his army was cut to pieces. Indians from the
       Upper Lakes, under the leadership of Charles Langlade, a
       Wisconsin fur-trader, were the chief participants in this
       affair, on the French side.--R. G. T.

   [8] This statement about Capts. Grant and Lewis having taken
       part in the battle of the Monongahela, is altogether a mistake.
       It must have originated in some traditional account, and become
       confused in some way with Grant's defeat, three years later, in
       which Maj. James Grant and Maj. Andrew Lewis both took a
       prominent part. There is no record of any Capt. Grant in
       Braddock's army. Andrew Lewis, though a major, was still in
       command of his company, and at the time of Braddock's defeat
       was on detached service. Gov. Dinwiddie, writing to Maj. Lewis,
       July 8, 1755, says: "You were ordered to Augusta with your
       company to protect the frontier of that county;" and, in a
       letter of the same date, to Col. Patton, the Governor adds:
       "Enclosed you have a letter to Capt. Lewis, which please
       forward to him: I think he is at Greenbrier." Capt. Robt.
       Orme, aide-de-camp to Gen. Braddock, in his Journal appended to
       Sargent's History of Braddock's Expedition, states under date
       of April, 1755, that the Virginia troops having been clothed,
       were ordered to march to Winchester, for arming and drilling,
       and then adds: "Capt. Lewis was ordered with his company of
       Rangers to Greenbrier river, there to build two stockade forts,
       in one of which he was to remain himself and to detach to the
       other a subaltern and fifteen men. These forts were to cover
       the western settlers of Virginia from any inroads of
       Indians."--L. C. D.

   [9] The MS. Journal of Col. Charles Lewis, in possession of
       the Wisconsin Historical Society, covering the period from
       October 10 to December 27, 1755, is an unconsciously eloquent
       picture of the hardships of life on the Virginia frontier, at
       this time.--R. G. T.

  [10] After the capitulation of Fort Necessity, and while
       some of the soldiers of each army were intermixed, an
       Irishman, exasperated with an Indian near him, "cursed the
       copper-coloured scoundrel" and raised his musket to shoot
       him. Gen. Lewis who had been twice wounded in the engagement,
       and was then hobbling on a staff, raised the Irishman's
       gun, as he was in the act of firing, and thus not only saved
       the life of the Indian, but probably prevented a general
       massacre of the Virginia troops.

  [11] Congress had given to Gen. Stephens, and some others
       (whose senior Lewis had been in former services) commissions as
       Major Generals.

  [12] Thomas Bullitt was a native of Prince William county,
       Virginia. He was appointed an ensign in Washington's first
       Virginia regiment, July 20, 1754, and promoted to a lieutenancy
       on October 30th following. It is said that he served in
       Braddock's defeat; but the records of the Virginia officers
       present do not include Lieut. Bullitt's name. He was, perhaps,
       with Capt. Lewis in the Greenbrier country, or on some other
       detached service. In May, 1756, he was stationed at Winchester;
       in July following, in command of Fort Frederick, on Jackson's
       River, and in November of that year, in command of Fort
       Cumberland. He was in active service in 1757, and early the
       next year we find him a captain; as such, he distinguished
       himself in checking the enemy and saving many of the fugitives
       at Grant's defeat, and shared in Gen. Forbes's successful
       expedition in the capture of Fort Du Quesne. In May, 1759,
       while guarding with one hundred men, fifteen wagons loaded with
       provisions for the westward, he was attacked and defeated by a
       strong party of French and Indians, losing thirty-five of his
       party killed and prisoners and all his wagons. In 1760, he was
       appointed a surveyor of a district bordering on the Ohio, and
       had much to do in early Kentucky exploration and surveys,
       making an early location and survey at the Falls of Ohio in
       1773. In September, 1775, he was appointed adjutant-general of
       all the Virginia forces; and on the 9th of December following,
       he aided Colonel Woodford in defeating Capt. Fordyce and party
       at the Great Bridge. In March, 1776, Congress appointed him
       deputy adjutant-general of the Southern Department with the
       rank of lieutenant-colonel, and advanced him in May following
       to the full rank of colonel. He died while yet in service, in
       1778.--L. C. D.

  [13] The French destroyed Fort Duquesne in November, 1758.
       During the winter following, Fort Pitt was erected by the
       English troops. In his Journal of a Tour to the Ohio River
       (1770), Washington says of it: "The fort is built on the point
       between the rivers Alleghany and Monongahela, but not so near
       the pitch of it as Fort Duquesne stood. It is five-sided and
       regular, two of which next the land are of brick; the others
       stockade. A moat encompasses it." Fort Pitt was invested by the
       Indians during Pontiac's War (1763). It was fully garrisoned
       until 1772, when a corporal and a few men were left as
       care-takers. In October of that year, the property was sold,
       and several houses were built out of the material. In the
       course of the boundary dispute between Pennsylvania and
       Virginia, the latter colony took possession of the ruins,
       through Lord Dunmore's agent there, John Conolly.--R. G. T.

  [14] The author overlooks the settlement made by Christopher
       Gist, the summer of 1753, in the town of Dunbar, Fayette
       county, Pa., two or three miles west of the Youghiogheny and
       some seventy miles northwest of Will's Creek; the site was
       doubtless selected by him in his trip of 1751-52. Washington,
       who visited him there in November, 1753, on the way to Fort Le
       Boeuf, calls it "Gist's new settlement," but the owner's name
       for his place was "Monongahela." It was the first settlement of
       which there is record, upon the Ohio Company's lands. Gist
       induced eleven families to settle near him; and on his journey
       home, in January, 1754, Washington met them going out to the
       new lands. The victory of the French over Washington, at Fort
       Necessity, in July, led to the expulsion from the region of all
       English-speaking settlers. The French commander, De Villiers,
       reports that he "burnt down all the settlements" on the
       Monongahela (from Redstone down), and in the vicinity of
       Gist's.--R. G. T.

  [15] This trail was a continuation of the famous "Warrior
       Branch," which coming up from Tennessee passed through Kentucky
       and Southern Ohio, and threading the valley of Fish Creek
       crossed over to Dunkard's Creek and so on to the mouth of
       Redstone Creek.--R. G. T.

  [16] In Col. Preston's MS. Register of Indian Depredations,
       in the Wisconsin Historical Society's library, it is stated
       that Robert Foyle, wife and five children, were killed on the
       Monongahela in 1754. Gov. Dinwiddie, in his speech to the
       Virginia house of burgesses in February, 1754, refers to this
       barbarous affair, giving the same number of the family
       destroyed; and the gazettes of that period state that Robert
       Foyle, together with his wife and five children, the youngest
       about ten years of age, were killed at the head of the
       Monongahela; their bodies, scalped, were discovered February
       4th, and were supposed to have been killed about two months
       before.--L. C. D.

  [17] In 1750, the Ohio Company, as a base of operations and
       supplies, built a fortified warehouse at Will's Creek (now
       Cumberland, Md.), on the upper waters of the Potomac. Col.
       Thomas Cresap, an energetic frontiersman, and one of the
       principal agents of the Company, was directed to blaze a
       pack-horse trail over the Laurel Hills to the Monongahela. He
       employed as his guide an Indian named Nemacolin, whose camp was
       at the mouth of Dunlap Creek (site of the present Brownsville,
       Pa.), an affluent of the Monongahela. Nemacolin pointed out an
       old Indian trace which had its origin, doubtless, in an
       over-mountain buffalo trail; and this, widened a little by
       Cresap, was at first known as Nemacolin's Path. It led through
       Little Meadows and Great Meadows--open marshes grown to grass,
       and useful for feeding traders' and explorers' horses.
       Washington traveled this path in 1753, when he went to warn the
       French at Fort Le Boeuf. Again, but widened somewhat, it was
       his highway in 1754, as far north as Gist's plantation; and at
       Great Meadows he built Fort Necessity, where he was defeated.
       Braddock followed it in great part, in 1755, and henceforth it
       became known as "Braddock's Road." The present National Road
       from Cumberland to Brownsville, via Uniontown, differs in
       direction but little from Nemacolin's Path. For a map of
       Braddock's Road, see Lowdermilk's History of Cumberland, Md.,
       p. 140, with description on pages 51, 52, 140-148. Ellis's
       History of Fayette Co., Pa., also has valuable data.

       The terminus of Nemacolin's Path was Dunlap's Creek (Brownsville).
       A mile-and-a-quarter below Dunlap's, enters Redstone Creek, and
       the name "Redstone" became affixed to the entire region hereabout,
       although "Monongahela" was sometimes used to indicate the
       panhandle between the Monongahela and the Youghiogheny. In 1752,
       the Ohio Company built a temporary warehouse at the mouth of
       Dunlap's Creek, at the end of the over-mountain trail. In 1754,
       Washington's advance party (Capt. Trent) built a log fort, called
       "The Hangard," at the mouth of the Redstone, but this was, later
       in the year, destroyed by the French officer De Villiers. In 1759,
       Colonel Burd, as one of the features of Forbes's campaign against
       Fort Duquesne, erected Fort Burd at the mouth of Dunlap's,
       which was a better site. This fort was garrisoned as late as
       the Dunmore War (1774), but was probably abandoned soon after the
       Revolutionary War. The name "Redstone Old Fort" became attached
       to the place, because within the present limits of Brownsville
       were found by the earliest comers, and can still be traced,
       extensive earthworks of the mound-building era.--R. G. T.

  [18] Cross Creek empties into the Ohio through Mingo Bottom
       (site of Mingo Junction, O.). On this bottom was, for many
       years, a considerable Mingo village.--R. G. T.

  [19] This statement, that Capt. Audley Paul commanded at
       Redstone, and of his attempting to intercept a foraging Indian
       party, can not possibly be true. There was no fort, and
       consequently no garrison, at Redstone in 1758. It was not built
       'till 1759, and then by Col. James Burd, of the Pennsylvania
       forces. James L. Bowman, a native of Brownsville, the locality
       of Redstone Old Fort, wrote a sketch of the history of that
       place, which appeared in the American Pioneer in February,
       1843, in which he says: "We have seen it stated in a creditable
       work, that the fort was built by Capt. Paul--doubtless an
       error, as the Journal of Col. Burd is ample evidence to settle
       that matter." Col. Burd records in his Journal: "Ordered, in
       Aug. 1759, to march with two hundred of my battalion to the
       mouth of Redstone Creek, to cut a road to that place, and to
       erect a fort." He adds: "When I had cut the road, and finished
       the fort," etc.

       The other part of the story, about Capt. John Gibson commanding
       at Fort Pitt in "the fall of 1758," is equally erroneous, as
       Gen. Forbes did not possess himself of Fort Duquesne till Nov.
       25th, 1758, within five days of the conclusion of "fall" in
       that year; and Gen. Forbes commanded there in person until he
       left for Philadelphia, Dec. 3d following. There is, moreover,
       no evidence that Gibson was then in service. The story of his
       decapitating Kis-ke-pi-la, or the Little Eagle, if there was
       such a person, or of his beheading any other Indian, is not at
       all probable. He was an Indian trader for many years, and was
       made prisoner by the Indians in 1763, and detained a long time
       in captivity.

       Gibson could not by any such decapitating exploit, have
       originated the designation of "Big Knife," or "Big Knife
       warrior," for this appellation had long before been applied
       to the Virginians. Gist says in his Journal, Dec. 7th, 1750, in
       speaking of crossing Elk's Eye Creek--the Muskingum--and
       reaching an Indian hamlet, that the Indians were all out
       hunting; that "the old Frenchman, Mark Coonce, living there,
       was civil to me; but after I was gone to my camp, upon his
       understanding I came from Virginia, he called me Big
       Knife." Col. James Smith, then a prisoner with the Indians,
       says the Indians assigned as a reason why they did not oppose
       Gen. Forbes in 1758, that if they had been only red coats
       they could have subdued them; "but they could not withstand
       Ash-a-le-co-a, or the Great Knife, which was the name they
       gave the Virginians."--L. C. D.

       ------

       Comment by R. G. T.--See note on p. 77, regarding erection of
       early forts at Redstone. James Veech, in Monongahela of Old,
       says, "We know that the late Col. James Paull served a month's
       duty in a drafted militia company in guarding Continental
       stores here [Fort Burd] in 1778." The term "Big Knives" or
       "Long Knives" may have had reference either to the long knives
       carried by early white hunters, or the swords worn by backwoods
       militia officers. See Roosevelt's Winning of the West, I., p.
       197.

[62] CHAPTER III.

The destruction of the Roanoke settlement in the spring of 1757, by a party of Shawanees, gave
rise to the campaign, which was called by the old settlers the "Sandy creek voyage." To avenge
this outrage, Governor Dinwiddie ordered out a company of regulars (taken chiefly from the
garrison at Fort Dinwiddie, on Jackson's river) under the command of Capt. Audley Paul; a company
of minute-men from Boutetourt, under the command of Capt. William Preston; and two companies
from Augusta, under Captains John Alexander[1] and William Hogg. In Capt. Alexander's company,
John M'Nutt, afterwards governor of Nova Scotia, was a subaltern. The whole were placed under
the command of Andrew Lewis.[2]

Beside the chastisement of the Indians, the expedition had for its object, the establishment
of a military post at the mouth of the Great Sandy. This would have enabled them, not only
to maintain a constant watch over marauding parties of Indians from that quarter; but to check
the communication between them and the post at Galliopolis; and thus counteract the influence
which the French there had obtained over them.[3]

The different companies detailed upon the Shawanee expedition, were required to rendezvous
on the Roanoke, near to the present town of Salem in Bottetourt, where Col. Lewis was then
posted. The company commanded by Capt. Hogg failed to attend at the appointed time; and Col.
Lewis after delaying a week for its arrival, marched forward, expecting to be speedily overtaken
by it.

To avoid an early discovery by the Indians, which would have been the consequence of their
taking the more public route by the Great Kenhawa; and that they might fall upon the Indians
towns in the valley of the Scioto, without being interrupted or seen by the French at Galliopolis,
they took the route by the way of New river and Sandy. Crossing New river below the Horse-shoe,
they descended it to the mouth of Wolf creek; and ascending this to its source, passed over
to the head of Bluestone river; where they delayed another week awaiting the arrival of Capt.
Hogg and his company.[4]--They then marched to the head of the north fork of Sandy, and continued
down it to the great Burning Spring, where they also remained a day. Here the salt and provisions,
which had been conveyed [63] on pack horses, were entirely exhausted. Two buffaloes, killed
just above the spring, were also eaten while the army continued here; and their hides were
hung upon a beech tree. After this their subsistence was procured exclusively by hunting.

The army then resumed their march; and in a few days after, it was overtaken by a runner with
the intelligence that Capt. Hogg and his company were only a day's march in the rear. Col.
Lewis again halted; and the day after he was overtaken by Hogg, he was likewise overtaken by
an express from Francis Fauquier[5] with orders for the army to return home; and for the disbanding
of all the troops except Capt. Paul's regulars,[6] who were to return to Fort Dinwiddie.

This was one of the first of Gov. Fauquier's official acts; and it was far from endearing him
to the inhabitants west of the Blue ridge. They had the utmost confidence in the courage and
good conduct of Col. Lewis, and of the officers and men under his command--they did not for
an instant doubt the success of the expedition, and looked forward with much satisfaction,
to their consequent exemption in a great degree, from future attacks from the Indians. It was
not therefore without considerable regret, that they heard of their countermanding orders.

Nor were they received by Lewis and his men with very different feelings. They had endured
much during their march, from the inclemency of the weather; more from the want of provisions--They
had borne these hardships without repining; anticipating a chastisement of the Indians, and
the deriving of an abundant supply of provisions from their conquered towns--They had arrived
within ten miles of the Ohio river, and could not witness the blasting of their expectations,
without murmuring. A council of war was held--disappointment and indignation were expressed
in every feature. A majority of the officers were in favor of proceeding to the Ohio river,
under the expectation that they might fall in with some of the enemy--they marched to the river
and encamped two nights on its banks. Discovering nothing of an enemy, they then turned to
retrace their steps through pathless mountains, a distance of three hundred miles, in the midst
of winter and without provisions.

The reasons assigned by the friends of Gov. Fauquier, for the issuing of those orders were,
that the force detailed by Gov. Dinwiddie, was not sufficient to render secure an establishment
at the contemplated point--near the Indian towns on the Scioto--within a few days journey of
several thousand warriors on the Miami--in the vicinity of the hostile post at Galliopolis
and so remote from the settled part of Virginia, that they could not be furnished with assistance,
and supplied with provisions and military stores, without incurring an expenditure, both of
blood and money, beyond what the colony could spare, for the accomplishment of that object.

Had Capt. Hogg with his company, been at the place of rendezvous at the appointed time, the
countermanding orders of the governor [64] could not have reached the army, until it had penetrated
the enemy's country. What might have been its fate, it is impossible to say--the bravery of
the troops--their familiar acquaintance with the Indian mode of warfare--their confidence in
the officers and the experience of many of them, seemed to give every assurance of success--While
the unfortunate result of many subsequent expeditions of a similar nature, would induce the
opinion that the governor's apprehensions were perhaps prudent and well founded. That the army
would soon have had to encounter the enemy, there can be no doubt; for although not an Indian
had been seen, yet it seems probable from after circumstances, that it had been discovered
and watched by them previous to its return.

On the second night of their march homeward, while encamped at the Great falls, some of Hogg's
men went out on the hills to hunt turkeys, and fell in with a party of Indians, painted as
for war. As soon as they saw that they were discovered, they fired, and two of Hogg's men were
killed--the fire was returned and a Shawanee warrior was wounded and taken prisoner. The remaining
Indians, yelling their war whoop, fled down the river.

Many of the whites, thinking that so small a party of Indians would not have pursued the army
alone, were of opinion that it was only an advanced scout of a large body of the enemy, who
were following them: the wounded Indian refused to give any information of their number or
object. A council of war was convoked; and much diversity of opinion prevailed at the board.
It was proposed by Capt. Paul to cross the Ohio river, invade the towns on the Scioto, and
burn them, or perish in the attempt.[7] The proposition was supported by Lieut. M'Nutt, but
overruled; and the officers, deeming it right to act in conformity with the governor's orders,
determined on pursuing their way home. Orders were then given that no more guns should be fired,
and no fires kindled in camp, as their safe return depended very much on silence and secrecy.

An obedience to this order, produced a very considerable degree of suffering, as well from
extreme cold as from hunger. The pack horses, which were no longer serviceable (having no provisions
to transport) and some of which had given out for want of provender, were killed and eaten.
When the army arrived at the Burning spring, the buffalo hides, which had been left there on
their way down, were cut into tuggs, or long thongs, and eaten by the troops, after having
been exposed to the heat produced by the flame from the spring.--Hence they called it Tugg
river--a name by which it is still known. After this the army subsisted for a while on beachnuts;
but a deep snow falling these could no longer be obtained, and the restrictions were removed.

About thirty men then detached themselves from the main body, to hunt their way home. Several
of them were known to have perished from cold and hunger--others were lost and never afterwards
[65] heard of; as they had separated into small parties, the more certainly to find game on
which to live. The main body of the army was conducted home by Col. Lewis, after much suffering--the
strings of their mocasons, the belts of their hunting shirts, and the flaps of their shot pouches,
having been all the food which they had eaten for some days.[8]

A journal of this campaign was kept by Lieut. M'Nutt, a gentleman of liberal education and
fine mind. On his return to Williamsburg he presented it to Governor Fauquier by whom it was
deposited in the executive archives. In this journal Col. Lewis was censured for not having
proceeded directly to the Scioto towns; and for imposing on the army the restrictions, as to
fire and shooting, which have been mentioned.--This produced an altercation between Lewis and
M'Nutt, which was terminated by a personal encounter.[9]

During the continuance of this war, many depredations were committed by hostile Indians, along
the whole extent of the Virginia frontier. Individuals, leaving the forts on any occasion,
scarcely ever returned; but were, almost always, intercepted by Indians, who were constantly
prowling along the border settlements, for purposes of rapine and murder. The particulars of
occurrences of this kind, and indeed of many of a more important character, no longer exist
in the memory of man--they died with them who were contemporaneous with the happening of them.[10]
On one occasion however, such was the extent of savage duplicity, and such, and so full of
horror, the catastrophe resulting from misplaced confidence, that the events which marked it,
still live in the recollection of the descendants of some of those, who suffered on the theatre
of treachery and blood.

On the south fork of the South Branch of Potomac, in, what is now, the county of Pendleton,
was the fort of Capt. Sivert.[11] In this fort, the inhabitants of what was then called the
"Upper Tract," all sought shelter from the tempest of savage ferocity; and at the time the
Indians appeared before [66] it, there were contained within its walls between thirty and forty
persons of both sexes and of different ages. Among them was Mr. Dyer, (the father of Col. Dyer
now of Pendleton) and his family. On the morning of the fatal day, Col. Dyer and his sister
left the fort for the accomplishment of some object, and although no Indians had been seen
there for some time, yet did they not proceed far, before they came in view of a party of forty
or fifty Shawanees, going directly towards the fort. Alarmed for their own safety, as well
as for the safety of their friends, the brother and sister endeavored by a hasty flight to
reach the gate and gain admittance into the garrison; but before they could effect this, they
were overtaken and made captives.

The Indians rushed immediately to the fort and commenced a furious assault on it. Capt. Sivert
prevailed, (not without much opposition,) on the besieged, to forbear firing 'till he should
endeavor to negotiate with, and buy off the enemy. With this view, and under the protection
of a flag he went out, and soon succeeded in making the wished for arrangement. When he returned,
the gates were thrown open, and the enemy admitted.

No sooner had the money and other articles, stipulated to be given, been handed over to the
Indians, than a most bloody tragedy was begun to be acted. Arranging the inmates of the fort,
in two rows, with a space of about ten feet between them, two Indians were selected; who taking
each his station at the head of a row, with their tomahawks most cruelly murdered almost every
white person in the fort; some few, whom caprice or some other cause, induced them to spare,
were carried into captivity,--such articles as could be well carried away were taken off by
the Indians; the remainder was consumed, with the fort, by fire.

The course pursued by Capt. Sivert, has been supposed to have been dictated by timidity and
an ill founded apprehension of danger from the attack. It is certain that strong opposition
was made to it by many; and it has been said that his own son raised his rifle to shoot him,
when he ordered the gates to be thrown open; and was only prevented from executing his purpose,
by the interference of some near to him. Capt. Sivert was also supported by many, in the plan
which he proposed to rid the fort of its assailants: it was known to be weak, and incapable
of withstanding a vigorous onset; and [67] its garrison was illy supplied with the munitions
of war. Experience might have taught them, however, the futility of any measure of security,
founded in a reliance on Indian faith, in time of hostility; and in deep and bitter anguish,
they were made to feel its realization in the present instance.

In the summer of 1761, about sixty Shawanee warriors penetrated the settlements on James river.
To avoid the fort at the mouth of Looney's creek, on this river, they passed through Bowen's
gap in Purgatory mountain, in the night; and ascending Purgatory creek, killed Thomas Perry,
Joseph Dennis and his child and made prisoner his wife, Hannah Dennis. They then proceeded
to the house of Robert Renix, where they captured Mrs. Renix, (a daughter of Sampson Archer)
and her five children, William, Robert, Thomas, Joshua and Betsy--Mr. Renix not being at home.
They then went to the house of Thomas Smith, where Renix was; and shot and scalped him and
Smith; and took with them, Mrs. Smith and Sally Jew, a white servant girl.[12]

William and Audley Maxwell, and George Matthews, (afterwards governor of Georgia,) were then
going to Smith's house; and hearing the report of the guns, supposed that there was a shooting
match. But when they rode to the front of the house and saw the dead bodies of Smith and Renix
lying in the yard, they discovered their mistake; and contemplating for a moment the awful
spectacle, wheeled to ride back. At this instant several guns were fired at them; fortunately
without doing any execution, except the cutting off the club of Mr. Matthews' cue. The door
of the house was then suddenly opened; the Indians rushed out and raising the war cry, several
of them fired--Audley Maxwell was slightly wounded in the arm.

It appeared afterwards, that the Indians had seen Matthews and the Maxwells coming; and that
some of them had crowded into the house, while the others with the prisoners went to the north
side of it, and concealed themselves behind some fallen timber. Mrs. Renix, after she was restored
to her friends in 1766, stated that she was sitting tied, in the midst of four Indians, who
laying their guns on a log, took deliberate aim at Matthews; the others firing at the Maxwells--The
sudden wheeling of their horses no doubt saved the lives of all three.

The Indians then divided, and twenty of them taking the [68] prisoners, the plunder and some
horses which they had stolen, set off by the way of Jackson's river, for the Ohio; the remainder
started towards Cedar creek, with the ostensible view of committing farther depredations. But
Matthews and the Maxwells had sounded the alarm, and the whole settlement were soon collected
at Paul's stockade fort, at the Big spring near to Springfield. Here the women and children
were left to be defended by Audley Maxwell and five other men; while the others, forming a
party of twenty-two, with George Matthews at their head, set out in quest of the enemy.

The Indians were soon overtaken, and after a severe engagement, were forced to give ground.
Matthews and his party followed in pursuit, as far as Purgatory creek; but the night being
very dark in consequence of a continued rain, the fugitives effected an escape; and overtaking
their comrades with the prisoners and plunder, on the next evening, at the forks of the James
and Cowpasture rivers, proceeded to Ohio without further molestation.

When Matthews and his men, on the morning succeeding the engagement, returned to the field
of battle, they found nine Indians dead; whom they buried on the spot. Benjamin Smith, Thomas
Maury and the father of Sally Jew, were the only persons of Matthews' party, who were killed--these,
together with those who had been murdered on the preceding day, were buried near the fork of
a branch, in (what is now) the meadow of Thomas Cross sr.

In Boquet's treaty with the Ohio Indians, it was stipulated that the whites detained by them
in captivity were to be brought in and redeemed. In compliance with this stipulation, Mrs.
Renix was brought to Staunton in 1767 and ransomed, together with two of her sons, William,
the late Col. Renix of Greenbrier, and Robert, also of Greenbrier--Betsy, her daughter, had
died on the Miami. Thomas returned in 1783, but soon after removed and settled, on the Scioto,
near Chilicothe. Joshua never came back; he took an Indian wife and became a Chief among the
Miamies--he amassed a considerable fortune and died near Detroit in 1810.

Hannah Dennis was separated from the other captives, and allotted to live at the Chilicothe
towns.[13] She learned their language; painted herself as they do; and in many respects conformed
to their manners and customs. She was attentive to sick persons and was highly esteemed by
the Indians, as [69] one well skilled in the art of curing diseases. Finding them very superstitious
and believers in necromancy; she professed witchcraft, and affected to be a prophetess. In
this manner she conducted herself, 'till she became so great a favorite with them, that they
gave her full liberty and honored her as a queen. Notwithstanding this, Mrs. Dennis was always
determined to effect her escape, when a favorable opportunity should occur; and having remained
so long with them, apparently well satisfied, they ceased to entertain any suspicions of such
a design.

In June 1763, she left the Chilicothe towns, ostensibly to procure herbs for medicinal purposes,
(as she had before frequently done,) but really to attempt an escape. As she did not return
that night, her intention became suspected; and in the morning, some warriors were sent in
pursuit of her. In order to leave as little trail as possible, she had crossed the Scioto river
three times, and was just getting over the fourth time 40 miles below the towns, when she was
discovered by her pursuers. They fired at her across the river without effect; but in endeavoring
to make a rapid flight, she had one of her feet severely cut by a sharp stone.

The Indians then rushed across the river to overtake and catch her, but she eluded them by
crawling into the hollow limb, of a large fallen sycamore. They searched around for her some
time, frequently stepping on the log which concealed her; and encamped near it that night.
On the next day they went on to the Ohio river, but finding no trace of her, they returned home.

Mrs. Dennis remained at that place three days, doctoring her wound, and then set off for home.
She crossed the Ohio river, at the mouth of Great Kenhawa, on a log of driftwood, travelling
only during the night, for fear of discovery--She subsisted on roots, herbs, green grapes,
wild cherries and river muscles--and entirely exhausted by fatigue and hunger, sat down by
the side of Greenbrier river, with no expectation of ever proceeding farther. In this situation
she was found by Thomas Athol and three others from Clendennin's settlement, which she had
passed without knowing it. She had been then upwards of twenty days on her disconsolate journey,
alone, on foot--but 'till then, cheered with the hope of again being with her friends.

She was taken back to Clendennin's, where they kindly [70] ministered to her, 'till she became
so far invigorated, as to travel on horseback with an escort, to Fort Young on Jackson's river;
from whence she was carried home to her relations.

In the course of a few days after Hannah Dennis had gone from Clendennins, a party of about
sixty warriors came to the settlement on Muddy creek, in the county of Greenbrier. That region
of country then contained no inhabitants, but those on Muddy creek, and in the Levels; and
these are believed to have consisted of at least one hundred souls. The Indians came apparently
as friends, and the French war having been terminated by the treaty of the preceding spring,
the whites did not for an instant doubt their sincerity. They were entertained in small parties
at different houses, and every civility and act of kindness, which the new settlers could proffer,
were extended to them. In a moment of the most perfect confidence in the innocense of their
intentions, the Indians rose on them and tomahawked and scalped all, save a few women and children
of whom they made prisoners.

After the perpetration of this most barbarous and bloody outrage, the Indians (excepting some
few who took charge of the prisoners) proceeded to the settlement in the Levels. Here, as at
Muddy creek, they disguised their horrid purpose, and wearing the mask of friendship, were
kindly received at the house of Mr. Clendennin.[14] This gentleman had just returned from a
successful hunt, and brought home three fine elks--these and the novelty of being with friendly
Indians, soon drew the whole settlement to his house. Here too the Indians were well entertained
and feasted on the fruit of Clendennin's hunt, and every other article of provision which was
there, and could minister to their gratification. An old woman, who was of the party, having
a very sore leg and having understood that Indians could perform a cure of any ulcer, shewed
it to one near her; and asked if he could heal it--The inhuman monster raised his tomahawk
and buried it in her head. This seemed to be the signal of a general massacre and promptly
was it obeyed--nearly every man of the settlement was killed and the women and children taken
captive.

While this tragedy was acting, a negro woman, who was [71] endeavoring to escape, was followed
by her crying child.--To save it from savage butchery, she turned round and murdered it herself.

Mrs. Clendennin, driven to despair by the cruel and unprovoked murder of her husband and friends,
and the spoliation and destruction of all their property, boldly charged the Indians with perfidy
and treachery; and alleged that cowards only could act with such duplicity. The bloody scalp
of her husband was thrown in her face--the tomahawk was raised over her head; but she did not
cease to revile them. In going over Keeny's knot on the next day, the prisoners being in the
centre, and the Indians in the front and rear, she gave her infant child to one of the women
to hold for a while.--She then stepped into the thicket unperceived, and made her escape. The
crying of the infant soon lead to a discovery of her flight--one of the Indians observed that
he could "bring the cow to her calf," and taking the child by the heels, beat out its brains
against a tree.

Mrs. Clendennin returned that night to her home, a distance of ten miles; and covering the
body of her husband with rails and trash, retired into an adjoining corn field, lest she might
be pursued and again taken prisoner. While in the corn field, her mind was much agitated by
contending emotions; and the prospect of effecting an escape to the settlements, seemed to
her dreary and hopeless. In a moment of despondency, she thought she beheld a man, with the
aspect of a murderer, standing near her; and she became overwhelmed with fear. It was but the
creature of a sickly and terrified imagination; and when her mind regained its proper tone,
she resumed her flight and reached the settlement in safety.[15]

These melancholy events occurring so immediately after the escape of Hannah Dennis; and the
unwillingness of the Indians that she should be separated from them, has induced the supposition
that the party committing those dreadful outrages were in pursuit of her. If such were the
fact, dearly were others made to pay the penalty of her deliverance.

This and other incidents, similar in their result, satisfied the whites that although the war
had been terminated on the part of the French; yet it was likely to be continued with all its
horrors, by their savage allies. This was then, and has since been, attributed to the smothered
hostility of the French in [72] Canada and on the Ohio river; and to the influence which they
had acquired over the Indians. This may have had its bearing on the event; but from the known
jealousy entertained by the Indians, of the English Colonists; their apprehensions that they
would be dispossessed of the country, which they then held (England claiming jurisdiction over
it by virtue of the treaty of Paris;) and their dissatisfaction at the terms on which France
had negotiated a peace, were in themselves sufficient to induce hostilities on the part of
the Indians. Charity would incline to the belief that the continuance of the war was rightly
attributable to these causes--the other reason assigned for it, supposing the existence of
a depravity, so deep and damning, as almost to stagger credulity itself.

In October, 1764, about fifty Delaware and Mingo warriors ascended the Great Sandy and came
over on New river, where they separated; and forming two parties, directed their steps toward
different settlements--one party going toward Roanoke and Catawba--the other in the direction
of Jackson's river. They had not long passed, when their trail was discovered by three men,
(Swope, Pack and Pitman) who were trapping on New river. These men followed the trail till
they came to where the Indian party had divided; and judging from the routes which, had been
taken, that their object was to visit the Roanoke and Jackson's river settlements, they determined
on apprizing the inhabitants of their danger. Swope and Pack set out for Roanoke and Pitman
for Jackson's river. But before they could accomplish their object, the Indians had reached
the settlements on the latter river, and on Catawba.

The Party which came to Jackson's river, travelled down Dunlap's creek and crossed James river,
above Fort Young, in the night and unnoticed; and going down this river to William Carpenter's,
where was a stockade fort under the care of a Mr. Brown, they met Carpenter just above his
house and killed him. They immediately proceeded to the house, and made prisoners of a son
of Mr. Carpenter, two sons of Mr. Brown[16] [73] (all small children) and one woman--the others
belonging to the house, were in the field at work. The Indians then dispoiled the house and
taking off some horses, commenced a precipitate retreat--fearing discovery and pursuit.

When Carpenter was shot, the report of the gun was heard by those at work in the field; and
Brown carried the alarm to Fort Young. In consequence of the weakness of this fort, a messenger
was despatched to Fort Dinwiddie, with the intelligence. Capt. Paul (who still commanded there,)
immediately commenced a pursuit with twenty of his men; and passing out at the head of Dunlap's
creek, descended Indian creek and New river to Piney creek; without making any discovery of
the enemy. On Indian creek they met Pitman, who had been running all the day and night before,
to apprise the garrison at Fort Young of the approach of the Indians. Pitman joined in pursuit
of the party who had killed Carpenter; but they, apprehending that they would be followed,
had escaped to Ohio, by the way of Greenbrier and Kenhawa rivers.[17]

As Capt. Paul and his men were returning, they accidently met with the other party of Indians,
who had been to Catawba, and committed some depredations and murders there. They were discovered
about midnight, encamped on the north bank of New river, opposite an island at the mouth of
Indian creek. Excepting some few who were watching three prisoners, (whom they had taken on
Catawba, and who were sitting in the midst of them,) they were lying around a small fire, wrapped
in skins and blankets. Paul's men not knowing that there were captives among them, fired in
the midst, killed three Indians, and wounded several others, one of whom drowned himself to
preserve his scalp--the rest of the party fled hastily down the river and escaped.

In an instant after the firing, Capt. Paul and his men rushed forward to secure the wounded
and prevent further escapes. One of the foremost of his party seeing, as he supposed, a squaw
sitting composedly awaiting the result, raised his tomahawk and just as it was descending,
Capt. Paul threw himself between the assailant and his victim; and receiving the blow on his
arm, exclaimed, "It is a shame to hurt a woman, even a squaw." Recognising the voice of Paul,
the woman named him. She was Mrs. Catharine Gunn, an English lady, who had come to the country
some years before; and who, previously to her marriage, had lived in the family of Capt. Paul's
father-in-law, where she became acquainted with that gentleman--She had been taken captive
by the Indians, on the Catawba, a few days before, when her husband and two only children were
killed by them. When questioned why she had not cried out, or otherwise made known that she
was a white prisoner, she replied, "I had as soon be killed as not--my husband is murdered--my
children are slain--my parents are dead. I have not a relation in America--every thing dear
to me here is gone--I have no wishes--no hopes--no fears--I would not have risen to my feet
to save my life."

[74] When Capt. Paul came on the enemy's camp, he silently posted his men in an advantageous
situation for doing execution, and made arrangements for a simultaneous fire. To render this
the more deadly and efficient, they dropped on one knee, and were preparing to take deliberate
aim, when one of them (John M'Collum) called to his comrades, "Pull steady and send them all
to hell." This ill timed expression of anxious caution, gave the enemy a moment's warning of
their danger; and is the reason why greater execution was not done.

The Indians had left all their guns, blankets and plunder--these together with the three white
captives, were taken by Capt. Paul to Fort Dinwiddie.[18]

-----
   [1] Father of Dr. Archibald Alexander, sometime president of
       Hampden Sydney College in Virginia, and afterwards a professor
       at Princeton in New Jersey.

       ------

       Comment by L. C. D.--He was the grandfather of Dr.
       Alexander.

   [2] The attacks on the Roanoke settlement, mentioned by
       Withers, occurred in June and July, 1755 (not the spring of
       1757, as he states); that on Greenbrier, in September
       following; and the expedition against the Shawnees did not take
       place in 1757, but in February and March, 1756. Diaries and
       other documents in the Wisconsin Historical Society's library
       prove this. Dr. Draper estimated that Lewis's force was about
       263 whites and 130 Cherokees--418 in all. The several companies
       were officered by Peter Hogg, John Smith, William Preston,
       Archibald Alexander, Robert Breckenridge, Obadiah Woodson, John
       Montgomery, and one Dunlap. Two of Dr. Thomas Walker's
       companions in his Kentucky exploration of 1750, were in the
       expedition--Henry Lawless and Colby Chew. Governor Dinwiddie
       had stipulated in his note to Washington, in December, 1755,
       that either Col. Adam Stephen or Maj. Andrew Lewis was to
       command. Washington having selected the latter, dispatched him
       from Winchester about the middle of January, 1756, with orders
       to hurry on the expedition. To the mismanagement of the guides
       is attributed much of the blame for its failure. The
       interesting Journals of Capt. William Preston and Lieut. Thomas
       Norton are in the possession of the Wisconsin Historical
       Society.--R. G. T.

   [3] But Gallipolis was not settled until 1790, as has been
       previously shown. Withers confounds the modern French town of
       Gallipolis, whose residents were the sad victims of Indian
       outrages rather than the abettors of them, with the old Shawnee
       town just below the mouth of the Scioto (site of Alexandria,
       O.). This fur-trading center was a village of log huts built by
       the French for the accommodation of their Shawnee allies, and
       was a center of frontier disturbances.--R. G. T.

   [4] Preston's Journal does not lay much stress on Hogg's
       delay. Norton's Journal, speaking of Hogg, says, "common
       soldiers were by him scarcely treated with humanity," and he
       seems to have regularly overruled and disobeyed Lewis. There
       was much rancor in camp, and Norton writes of the Cherokee
       allies, "The conduct and concord that was kept up among the
       Indians might shame us, for they were in general quite
       unanimous and brotherly."--R. G. T.

   [5] This expedition was sent out under the auspices of Gov.
       Dinwiddie--Fauquier did not become governor until 1758. No
       countermanding orders were sent.--L. C. D.

   [6] Audley Paul was first lieutenant in Preston's
       company.--L. C. D.

   [7] Withers, deriving his information from Taylor's
       sketches, was misled as to any intention of establishing a
       fort at the mouth of the Kanawha; and also as to Paul's, or
       any one else's proposition to cross the Ohio, and invade the
       Shawnee towns. The only aim was, to reach the Upper Shawnee
       town.--L. C. D.

       ------

       Comment by R. G. T.--"Upper Shawnee town" was an Indian
       village at the mouth of Old Town Creek, emptying into the Ohio
       from the north, 39 miles above the mouth of the Great Kanawha.

   [8] If such a journal ever existed, it passed into the hands
       of Gov. Dinwiddie, or possibly to Gov. Fauquier; but no
       reference to it is found among the Dinwiddie Papers, as
       published by the Virginia Historical Society; nor in the
       Calendar of State Papers, published by the State of Virginia.
       It is to be remarked, however, that few of the records of that
       period have been preserved by that State.--L. C. D.

   [9] Shortly after, M'Nutt was appointed governor of Nova
       Scotia, where he remained until the commencement of the
       American revolution. In this contest he adhered to the cause of
       liberty, and joined his countrymen in arms under Gen. Gates at
       Saratoga. He was afterwards known as a meritorious officer in
       the brigade of Baron de Kalb, in the south--he died in 1811,
       and was buried in the Falling Spring church yard, in the forks
       of James river.

  [10] Preston's MS. Register of the persons of Augusta county,
       Va., killed, wounded, captured by the Indians, and of those who
       escaped, from 1754 to May, 1758, is in the Wisconsin Historical
       Society's library. It is to be regretted that Col. Preston,
       whose opportunities were so good, did not continue the Register
       till the end of the Indian wars. It is a most valuable document
       as far as it goes, and supplies many dates and facts hitherto
       involved in doubt and obscurity.--L. C. D.

  [11] Seybert's Fort was situated on the South Fork, twelve
       miles northeast of Franklin, in Pendleton County. At the time
       of this invasion, there was a fort located on the South Branch,
       garrisoned by Capt. James Dunlap and a company of rangers from
       Augusta county. Preston's Register states, that on the 27th of
       April, 1758, the fort at which Capt. Dunlap was stationed, was
       attacked and captured, the captain and twenty-two others
       killed; and, the next day, the same party, no doubt, attacked
       Seybert's Fort, killing Capt. Seybert and sixteen others, while
       twenty-four others were missing. Washington, at the time,
       placed the number as "about sixty persons killed and missing."

       A gazette account, published at Williamsburg, May 5th ensuing,
       says: "The Indians lately took and burnt two forts, where were
       stationed one of our ranging companies, forty of whom were
       killed and scalped, and Lieut. Dunlap and nineteen missing."

       Kercheval's History of the Valley gives some further
       particulars: That Seybert's Fort was taken by surprise; that
       ten of the thirty persons occupying it, were bound, taken
       outside; the others were placed on a log and tomahawked. James
       Dyer, a lad of fourteen, was spared, taken first to Logstown,
       and then to Chillicothe, and retained a year and ten months,
       when as one of an Indian party he visited Fort Pitt, and
       managed to evade his associates while there, and finally
       reached the settlements in Pennsylvania, and two years later
       returned to the South Fork. It is added by the same historian,
       as another tradition, that after the fort had been invested two
       days, and two of the Indians had been killed, the garrison
       agreed to surrender on condition of their lives being spared,
       which, was solemnly promised. That when the gate was opened,
       the Indians rushed in with demoniac yells, the whites fled, but
       were retaken, except one person; the massacre then took place,
       and ten were carried off into captivity.

       Still another tradition preserved by Kercheval, says the noted
       Delaware chief, Killbuck, led the Indians. Seybert's son, a lad
       of fifteen, exhibited great bravery in the defense of the fort.
       Killbuck called out to Capt. Seybert, in English, to surrender,
       and their lives should be spared; when young Seybert at this
       instant, aimed his loaded gun at the chief, and the father
       seized it, and took it from him, saying they could not
       successfully defend the place, and to save their lives should
       surrender, confiding in Killbuck's assurances. Capt. Seybert
       was among the first of those sacrificed. Young Seybert was
       among the prisoners, and told the chief how near he came to
       killing him. "You young rascal," laughingly replied Killbuck,
       "if you had killed me, you would have saved the fort, for had I
       fallen, my warriors would have immediately fled, and given up
       the siege in despair."--L. C. D.

  [12] The name is Renick. Robert Renick, who was killed on the
       occasion referred to, was a man of character and influence in
       his day. His name appears on Capt. John Smith's company roll of
       Augusta militia as early as 1742; and four years later, he was
       lieutenant of a mounted company of Augusta militia. Instead of
       1761, the captivity of the Renick family occurred July 25,
       1757, as shown by the Preston Register, which states that
       Renick and another were killed on that day--Mrs. Renick and
       seven children, and a Mrs. Dennis, captured; and the same day,
       at Craig's Creek, one man was killed and two wounded. The
       Renick traditions state that Mrs. Renick had only five children
       when taken; and one born after reaching the Indian towns; and
       corrects some other statements not properly related in
       Withers's narrative of the affair.--L. C. D.

  [13] In 1763-65, the great Shawnee village just below the
       mouth of the Scioto (site of Alexandria, O.), was destroyed by
       floods. Some of the tribesmen rebuilt their town on a higher
       bottom just above the mouth (site of Portsmouth, O.), while
       others ascended the Scioto and built successively Old and New
       Chillicothe.--R. G. T.

  [14] Where Ballard Smith now resides.

  [15] Further particulars of this captivity are in Royall's
       Sketches of History, Life, and Manners in U. S. (New Haven,
       1826), pp. 60-66.--R. G. T.

  [16] Carpenter's son (since Doctor Carpenter of Nicholas)
       came home about fifteen years afterwards--Brown's youngest son,
       (the late Col. Samuel Brown of Greenbrier) was brought home in
       1769--the elder son never returned. He took an Indian wife,
       became wealthy and lived at Brown's town in Michigan. He acted
       a conspicuous part in the late war and died in 1815.

       ------

       Comment by L. C. D.--Adam Brown, who was captured as
       mentioned in the above text and note, was thought by his last
       surviving son, Adam Brown, Jr., whom I visited in Kansas in
       1868, to have been about six years old when taken; and he died,
       he thought, about 1817, at about seventy-five years of age. But
       these dates, and his probable age, do not agree; he was either
       older when taken, or not so old at his death. The mother was
       killed when the sons were captured, and the father and some
       others of the family escaped. The late William Walker, an
       educated Wyandott, and at one time territorial governor of
       Kansas, stated to me, that the Wyandotts never made chiefs of
       white captives, but that they often attained, by their merits,
       considerable consequence. It is, however, certain that Abraham
       Kuhn, a white prisoner, grew up among the Wyandotts, and,
       according to Heckewelder, became a war chief among them, and
       signed the treaty at Big Beaver in 1785; and Adam Brown himself
       signed the treaties of 1805 and 1808, and doubtless would have
       signed later ones had he not sided with the British Wyandotts,
       and retired to Canada, near Malden, where he died.

  [17] It is highly probable that this foray took place in
       1763. During this year, as features of the Pontiac uprising,
       bloody forays were made on the more advanced settlements on
       Jackson, Greenbrier, and Calf Pasture rivers, and several
       severe contests ensued between whites and Indians. Captains
       Moffett and Phillips, with sixty rangers, were ambuscaded with
       the loss of fifteen men. Col. Charles Lewis pursued the savages
       with 150 volunteers raised in a single night, and on October
       3rd surprised them at the head of the South Fork of the
       Potomac, killing twenty-one, with no white losses. The spoils
       of this victory, beside the "five horses with all their
       trappings," sold for £250. This was the most notable of the
       several skirmishes which took place on the Virginia frontier,
       that year.--R. G. T.

  [18] Perhaps this affair is that related by Capt. William
       Christian, in a letter dated Roanoke, Oct. 19th, 1763, as
       published in the gazettes of that day--there are, at least,
       some suggestive similarities: "Being joined by Capt.
       Hickenbotham, with twenty-five of the Amherst militia, we
       marched on Tuesday last, to Winston's Meadows, where our
       scouts informed us, that they had discovered a party of
       Indians about three miles off. Night coming on, prevented our
       meeting them; and next day, being rainy, made it difficult to
       follow their tracks. As they were on their return, Capt.
       Hickenbotham marched to join Capt. Ingles down New River. I,
       with nineteen men and my ensign, took a different route in
       quest of them. We marched next day on their tracks until
       two hours before sunset, when we heard some guns, and soon
       afterwards discovered three large fires, which appeared to
       be on the bank of Turkey Creek, where it empties into New
       river. Upon this we immediately advanced, and found they
       were on an island. Being within gun-shot, we fired on them,
       and loading again, forded the creek. The Indians, after
       killing Jacob Kimberlain, a prisoner they had with them, made
       but a slight resistence, and ran off. We found one Indian
       killed on the spot, and, at a little distance, four blankets
       shot through, and very bloody. We took all their bundles,
       four guns, eight tomahawks, and two mares. They had several
       other horses, which being frightened by the firing, ran off
       and were lost. The party consisted of upwards of twenty
       Indians. By the tracks of blood, we imagined several of them
       were wounded." This affair occurred Oct. 12th.--L. C. D.

[75] CHAPTER IV.

During the continuance of the French war, and of that with the Indians which immediately succeeded
it, the entire frontier from New York to Georgia was exposed to the merciless fury of the savages.
In no instance were the measures of defence adopted by the different colonies, adequate to
their object.--From some unaccountable fatuity in those who had the direction of this matter,
a defensive war, which alone could have checked aggression and prevented the effusion of blood,
was delayed 'till the whole population, of the country west of the Blue ridge, had retired
east of those mountains; or were cooped up in forts.

The chief means of defence employed, were the militia of the adjoining counties, and the establishment
of a line of forts and block-houses, dispersed along a considerable extent of country, and
occupied by detachments of British colonial troops, or by militiamen. All these were utterly
incompetent to effect security; partly from the circumstances of the case, and somewhat from
the entire want of discipline, and the absence of that subordination which is absolutely necessary
to render an army effective.

So great and apparent were the insubordination and remissness of duty, on the part of the various
garrisons, that Gen. Washington, declared them "utterly inefficient and useless;" and the inhabitants
themselves, could place no reliance whatever on them, for protection. In a particular instance,
such were the inattention and carelessness of the garrison that several children playing under
the walls of the fort, were run down and caught by the Indians, who were not discovered 'till
they arrived at the very gate.[1]

In Virginia the error of confiding on the militia, soon became apparent.[2] Upon the earnest
remonstrance and entreaty of General Washington, the colonial legislature substituted a force
of regulars,[3] [76] which at once effected the partial security of her frontier, and gave
confidence to the inhabitants.

In Pennsylvania, from the pacific disposition of her rulers and their abhorrence of war of
any kind, her border settlements suffered most severely. The whole extent of her frontier was
desolated by the Indians, and irruptions were frequently made by them into the interior. The
establishments, which had been made in the Conococheague valley, were altogether broken up
and scenes of the greatest barbarity, on one side, and of the utmost suffering on the other,
were constantly exhibiting. A few instances of this suffering and of that barbarity, may not
be improperly adduced here. They will serve to illustrate the condition of those who were within
reach of the savage enemy; and perhaps, to palliate the enormities practiced on the christian
Indians.

In the fall of 1754 about forty or fifty Indians entered that province, and dividing themselves
into two parties, sought the unprotected settlements, for purposes of murder and devastation:
the smaller party went about the forks of Delaware--the other directing their steps along the
Susquehanna. On the 2nd of October, twelve of the former appeared before the house of Peter
Williamson, (a Scotchman, with no family but his wife,) who had made considerable improvement
near the Delaware river. Mrs. Williamson being from home, he sat up later than usual, and about
11 o'clock was astounded at the savage war whoop, resounding from various directions, near
to the house. Going to the window, he perceived several Indians standing in the yard, one of
whom, in broken English, promised that if he would come out and surrender he should not be
killed; threatening at the same time that if he did not, they would burn him up in his house.
Unable to offer an effectual resistance, and preferring the chance of safety by surrendering,
to the certainty of a horrid death if he attempted an opposition, he yielded himself up a prisoner.

So soon as he was in their power they plundered the house of such articles as they could conveniently
take with them, and set fire to it, and to the barn, in which was a quantity of wheat, some
horses and other cattle. After inflicting some severe tortures on Williamson, and forcing him
to carry a heavy weight of the plunder, which they had taken from him, they went to a neighboring
house, occupied by Jacob Snyder, his wife, five children and a servant. The piercing cries,
and [77] agonizing shrieks of these poor creatures, made no impression on the savages. The
father, mother, and children were tomahawked and scalped, and their bodies consumed by fire
together with the house. The servant was spared that he might aid in carrying their plunder;
but manifesting deep distress at his situation as prisoner, he was tomahawked before they proceeded
far.

Before they could accomplish farther mischief a fall of snow, making them apprehensive that
they would be pursued by the united force of the settlement, induced them to return to Alamingo--taking
Williamson with them.

On their way back, they met with the party of Indians, which had separated from them, as they
approached the settlements. These had been lower down on the Susquehanna, and had succeeded
in making greater havoc, and committing more depredations, than it had fallen to the lot of
those who had taken Williamson, to commit. They had with them three prisoners and twenty scalps.
According to the account of their transactions as detailed by the prisoners, they had on one
day killed and scalped John Lewis, his wife and three children, and in a few days after had
murdered, with almost every circumstance of cruelty, Jacob Miller, his wife and six children,
and George Folke, his wife and nine children, cutting up the bodies of the latter family and
giving them piece-meal to the hogs in the pen. Wherever they had been, destruction marked their
course. In every instance the houses, barns and grain stacks were consumed by fire; and the
stock killed.

The three prisoners who had been brought in by the last party, endeavored soon after to effect
an escape; but their ignorance of the country, and the persevering activity and vigilance of
the Indians, prevented the accomplishment of their attempt. They were overtaken, and brought
back; and then commenced a series of cruelties, tortures and death, sufficient to shock the
sensibilities of the most obdurate heart, if unaccustomed to the perpetration of such enormities.

Two of them were tied to trees, around which large fires were kindled, and they suffered to
remain for some time, in the gradual but horrible state of being scorched to death. After the
Indians had enjoyed awhile the writhings of agony and the tears of anguish, which were drawn
from these suffering victims, one, stepping within the circle, ripped open their bodies and
threw their bowels into the flames. Others, to emulate [78] this most shocking deed, approached,
and with knives, burning sticks, and heated irons, continued to lacerate, pierce and tear the
flesh from their breasts, arms and legs, 'till death closed the scene of horrors and rendered
its victims insensible to its pains.

The third was reserved a few hours, that he might be sacrificed under circumstances of peculiar
enormity. A hole being dug in the ground of a depth sufficient to enable him to stand upright,
with his head only exposed, his arms were pinioned to his body, he placed in it, and the loose
earth thrown in and rammed closely around him. He was then scalped and permitted to remain
in that situation for several hours. A fire was next kindled near his head. In vain did the
poor suffering victim of hellish barbarity exclaim, that his brains were boiling in his head;
and entreat the mercy of instant death. Deaf to his cries, and inexorable to his entreaties,
they continued the fire 'till his eye balls burst and gushed from their sockets, and death
put a period to his sufferings.

Of all these horrid spectacles, Williamson was an unwilling spectator; and supposing that he
was reserved for some still more cruel and barbarous fate, determined on escaping. This he
was soon enabled to do; and returned to the settlements.[4]

The frequent infliction of such enormities as these upon the helpless and unoffending women
and children, as well as upon those who were more able to resist and better qualified to endure
them; together with the desolation of herds, the devastation of crops, and the conflagration
of houses which invariably characterized those incursions, engendered a general feeling of
resentment, that sought in some instances, to wreak itself on those who were guiltless of any
participation in those bloody deeds. That vindictive spirit led to the perpetration of offences
against humanity, not less atrocious than those which they were intended to requite; and which
obliterated every discriminative feature between the perpetrators of them, and their savage
enemies.

The Canestoga Indians, to the number of forty, lived in a village, in the vicinity of Lancaster;
they were in amity with the whites, and had been in peace and quiet for a considerable length
of time. An association of men, denominated the "Paxton boys," broke into their little town
and murdered all who were found at home--fourteen men, women and children fell a prey to the
savage brutality of those sons of civilization [79]. The safety of the others was sought to
be effected, by confining them in the jail at Lancaster. It was in vain. The walls of a prison
could afford no protection, from the relentless fury of these exasperated men. The jail doors
were broken open, and its wretched inmates cruelly murdered.--And, as if their deaths could
not satiate their infuriate murderers, their bodies were brutally mangled, the hands and feet
lopped off, and scalps torn from the bleeding heads of innocent infants.

A similar fate impended the christian Indians of Nequetank and Nain; and was only averted,
by the timely interposition of the government of Pennsylvania. They were removed to Philadelphia,
where they remained from November 1763 'till after the close of the war in December 1764; during
which time the Paxton boys twice assembled in the neighborhood of the city, for the purpose
of assaulting the barracks and murdering the Indians, but were deterred by the military preparations
made to oppose them; and ultimately, but reluctantly, desisted.

Had the feelings excited in the minds of these misguided men, by the cruelties of the Indians,
been properly directed, it would have produced a quite different result. If, instead of avenging
the outrages of others, upon those who were no otherwise guilty than in the complexion of their
skin, they had directed their exertions to the repressing of invasion, and the punishment of
its authors, much good might have been achieved; and they, instead of being stigmatized as
murderers of the innocent, would have been hailed as benefactors of the border settlements.
Associations of this kind were formed in that province, and contributed no little to lessen
the frequency of Indian massacres, and to prevent the effusion of blood, and the destruction
of property. At the time the Paxton boys were meditating and endeavoring to effect the destruction
of the peaceable christian Indians, another company, formed by voluntary league, was actively
engaged in checking the intrusions, of those who were enemies, and in punishing their aggressions.
A company of riflemen, called the Black boys (from the fact of their painting themselves red
and black, after the Indian fashion,) under the command of Capt. James Smith, contributed to
preserve the Conococheague valley, during the years 1763 and 1764, from the devastation [80]
which had overspread it early after the commencement of Braddock's war.

Capt. Smith had been captured by the Indians in the spring of 1755, and remained with them
until the spring of 1759, when he left them at Montreal, and after some time arrived at home
in Pennsylvania. He was in Fort du Quesne, when the Indians and French went out to surprise
Gen. Braddock; and witnessed the burnings and other dreadful tortures inflicted upon those
who were so unfortunate as to have been made prisoners; and the orgies and demoniacal revels
with which the victory was celebrated. He was subsequently adopted into a family, by which
he was kindly treated; and became well acquainted with their manner of warfare, and the various
arts practised by them, to ensure success in their predatory incursions, and afterwards to
elude pursuit. He became satisfied from observation, that to combat Indians successfully, they
must be encountered in their own way; and he accordingly instructed his men in the Indian mode
of warfare, dressed them after the Indian fashion, and fought after the Indian manner.[5]

An instance of the good effect resulting from practicing the arts and stratagems of the Indians,
occurred during this war; and to its success the garrison of Fort Pitt were indebted for their
preservation.

After the ratification of the treaty of peace which had been concluded between England and
France, war continued to be waged by the Indians on the whole western frontier. A large body
of them had collected and marched to Fort Pitt, with a view to its reduction by famine. It
had been invested for some time and the garrison being too weak to sally out and give battle
to the besiegers, Capt. Ecuyer dispatched messengers with the intelligence of his situation
and a request for aid and provisions: these were either compelled to return or be killed, as
the country for some distance east of Fort Pitt was in the possession of the savages.[6]

At length a quantity of provisions were ordered by Gov. Amherst for the relief of the fort,
and forwarded under a strong guard commanded by Colonel Boquet. In all these, mostly as altars, or tabernacles, of Florence and in Tuscany scattered
works we admire an artist who, in his sense of beauty, his taste the arrangement and color, in the
delicacy of feeling and the fineness of the through education proved to be the loyal and happy
pupil of his uncle Luca. His works, those properties make very popular, will be issued regularly
as works of Luca. But the captivating charm of his heads and his characters is a more superficial,
and where we need to draw characters, or to describe living scenes, not enough talent from.
He seeks, therefore, possible to simple representations restrict peaceful existence, on the
expression of silent meditation and serene joy, as permitted his Madonnas, single or surrounded
by devout saints, his adoration of the child, his putt and children's representations and have
similar motives, the richest and most beautiful occasion.

[Figure: 116 Stucco relief of the Madonna with Angels by Luca della
Robbia.]

Andrea's lack of original creative power, which his characters
captivating at all Loveliness and weakness imposes a certain uniformity,
also has in its long Activity, relatively little artistic change caused.

Decades long the assistant of his uncle, Luca, whose subsequent orders well in essence already
his hands were running, he is in his own early work: in the delicious Wrapping children in the
Hall of Innocenti, in the encounter of Mary in San Domenico at Pistoia, in the encounter between
St. Francis and Dominic in the hall on Piazza S. Maria Novella, in the altars of La Vernia,
etc. (usually the end of the sixties or in the seven years Goats incurred) from a teacher near
his upcoming beauty of the figures, by the fineness of the education and distinction of appearance.
An excellent work this time, the high altar of the Berlin Collection (No. 118), which shows Mary
between two saints. Also in the earlier Time is probably the small Annunciation (No. 119A), under
which the rich colors Andrea's work stands almost alone. In its central moments, the artist, apparently
under Verrocchio's influence is stronger in his characters, rich and restless in the drapery; so
in the beautiful Annunciation in the Innocenti. are from this period in the Berlin collection
and others, "the lunette with the Madonna between adoring angels (No. 119), and" the boy as
a fountain figure (No. 121). Several other glazed Thonbildwerke are working in workshops of Andrea.

[Illustration:
Andrea della Robbia. Meeting of Mary and Elizabeth in S. Domenico at Pistoia.]

As with the later orders to Luca della Robbia the execution by his nephew, Andrea probably is, so can be
the same relationship between Andrea and his sons for take the orders,
which of these artists in the last decades of his long Life was.

Among these sons of Giovanni Andrea della Robbia (born 1469, died
supposedly 1529) that of personality that the art of the della Robbia
in the third Generation determined.

His own works and those of his workshop are almost in greater Number as that of his father, spread
across central Italy. In his early works, as in the sacristy delicious well of S. Maria Novella
(1497), Laib under the influence of his father that even very closely related and nearly equal;
later his works are not only technically still low: colorful in colors or sober colorless,
irregular and volatile in the glaze (the cuts of meat at all, therefore, usually only painted)
and cumbersome, and even through the rough framing fruit wreaths. The sobriety the invention, the
deadpan regularity of the heads, the cumbersome formation of wrinkles fall on it as disturbing
as the lack of individuality and nature study in the through education. A characteristic example
is the large round with the Madonna between Saints John the Baptist and Jerome (No. 129), which
acts in its lack of color just as sober, as St. Anthony (No. 135) by the colorfulness of its
colors appear uneasy and clumsy. Particularly indicative of the desire of the artist, according
to the teachings of his friend Savonarola to shape the art into a purely devotional resources and therefore
take the place of worship of the retreating naturalistic Through education and the simple human
feeling is typical and to set universal, is the large group of the Lamentation of Christ (No. 128A), an
early Major work of this kind of Giovanni's own hand. -

Giovanni della Robbia is already an artist of the early Renaissance, the advance here discussed, because
he carried the technique and the inner connection with the older members his family from these can
not be separated. We return to Donatello's successors and younger contemporaries back.

[Figure: 118 Glazed Thonaltar by Andrea della Robbia.]

As a student of Donatello is Desiderio da Settignano since Vasari (1428-1464). Although young died,
but the artist has on the development of Florentine sculpture sustainable Influence exercised.
In the naturalness and liveliness of conception, in which the momentary Coming close to the
representation of Donatello, in the picturesque treatment of the
relief match for him, he has before his great master a particularly
fine sense of architectural design and Decoration such as the joy
of carrying out its work ahead.

The fact that almost all the same executed in marble, is no accident:
he was quite properly for the treatment of marble and has the same
talent for the second half of the fifteenth century to the preferred
Plastic materials for art works.

The mischievous expression of his children, the cool almost arrogant sense of his youth and
a real train of female beauty combine with an ease of the invention, a joy of creation, a championship
naturalist by training and a picturesque softness of the treatment in all its Works to an always
charming, always surprising impression.

The two main works of Desiderio's, the tomb of State Marzuppini († 1455) in Sat Croce and the
large marble tabernacle in San Lorenzo are probably both the same later Time of the artist's.
From this period, various Madonna reliefs in marble, for which a similar treatment in very picturesque
flat relief is characteristic: two of them in private collections in Paris, a third (as tabernacle)
in Via Cavour, Florence, a fourth in the gallery at Turin. The latter is particularly common
in colored plaster replicas before, the same has the finest collection in Berlin (No. 62 B).
As a work of the former Time of the artist can be almost more bitter perhaps the Madonna relief
by Donatello's Name in the Via dei Martelli and treated similarly
delicious fireplace made of sandstone with the relief portraits of
a young married couple in the South Kensington Museum appeal.

The beautiful decorative works in the Badia at Fiesole, the pulpit in the refectory and a door
in the church were apparently executed after his designs by students.

[Illustration: Tomb of Marzuppini Desiderio in Sat Croce in Florence.]

The fineness of observation, the taste in the arrangement and the completion of the implementation Desiderio's
are properties that qualified him especially to the portrait sculptor, especially for the reproduction
of children and young women. Only such work, we secured and even these only on the authority of Vasari's
back: the bust of Marietta Strozzi Palazzo Strozzi in Florence, but after this, as to the
character of the figures in his Desiderio's Monuments can the artist still different like female
portraits and busts of Assign boys and young men with great probability. The majority of these
busts is now united in the Berlin collection.

One of them is a marble bust of the young Marietta Strozzi (No. 62),
the mutilated bust in the Palazzo Strozzi very similar, in the lean
training, bold attitude and open expression and the train to the slightly
mischievous open mouth, she seems like a sibling of the youth at the
tomb figures Murzuppini and at the Tabernacle in San Lorenzo.

A colorless now, partly modeled plaster bust (No. 62 C) is this marble bust of closely related and
is perhaps the same young Florentine somewhat advanced age dar. A second, similar piece bust (No.
62E), whose fine old paint is still there, according to their origin is probably one of the
many Daughters of the Duke Federigo of Urbino dar. Another daughter of that prince, we suspect
in the inheritance derived from the Urbin, (No. 62A) in limestone bust girl executed of very different
type, in the faithful reproduction of the individual and in the fine naturalistic By forming
an unrivaled masterpiece.

[Figure: 62B. Painted stucco relief of the Madonna of Desiderio.]

Of the various children's busts, which according to the comparison with the certified work can be attributed
to Desiderio, is not represented in the Berlin collection, the marble bust an older boy in the
Museo Nazionale at Florence, and the smiling boy at Mr. Benda Vienna are the main works of this kind,
the latter as a youth work still under Donatello's Influence, which they attributed hence.

[Figure:
62 Marble bust of Marietta Strozzi by Desiderio.]

The Desiderio is the same age Antonio Rossellino particularly close. In the early and a priori
quite peculiar development Desiderio's the relationship we must Antonio's probably attributed
with certainty to the influence of the former.

His school has Antonio, however, probably under his older brother,
the famous architect and sculptor Bernardo Rossellino (actually Bernardo
di Matteo Gamberelli Gen. Rosselino, 1409-1464) through, show with
his later works, Antonio's early works, the next relationship.

The peculiar create joyful and energetic character lives in Bernardo's buildings and its sculptures
held. When held to the formation of the human figure still partially caught, he has the great architectural
monuments, the structure of his sculptural Florentine sculpture of the Quattrocento determined
in the most advantageous manner, thanks no doubt to him the same in the first place the fine
sensation for architectural relationships, which in almost all monuments
from the second Half of the XV.

Century expressed.

Bernardo's large marble tomb of Leon Bruni († 1444) in Sat Croce is the first and also the most
distinguished American grave in Florence, the model for all others. The figural jewelry, its
distribution to the effect of the great Construction contributes significantly, is generally
a bit heavy and in motion not always free, whereas the figure of the dead is thought so noble
and so beautifully arranged, well as Italian in no other grave monument. In the tomb in S. Domenico
Lazzari to Pistoia, hinstarb of its execution, the artist, he has the type required of him the Bolognese
professor grave with the audience as the center of artistic freedom in Form brought, while in
the Monument of the Blessed Villana in S. Maria Novella, a simple Gothic motif appropriates:
Angels pull the canopy-like curtain in the sleep of death dormant form of the young saint back. Even the
marble tabernacle in the Church of the Hospital of S. Maria Nuova (c. 1450), in its architectural design
as in the outline similar benefits.

[Figure: 62A. Bust of a Princess of Urbin Desiderio.]

[Figure: 141 Painted plaster bust of Gio. Rucellai by an unknown Florentine to 1460th]

The figural representations of these monuments as his purely figurative sculptures, and the large
bezel and the two saints on the facade of the Misericordia at Arezzo (of 1434 and 1435) and the
group of the Annunciation in S. Francesco at Empoli (from 1447) have still somewhat cumbersome
in form and movement and a certain bias in the blank expression. So that they connect, but an
effective Ernst, a subdued feeling as painfully and fervent enthusiasm, soft, though slightly less
motifs full of wrinkles in the Robes and fine naturalistic treatment of the flesh, especially beautiful
in the mind. The only work in the Berlin collection, with some probability to this Artists
can be traced back, is a stucco relief, Maria, worshiping the Child
(No. 73A), which in the types and in the soft indefinite treatment
of drapery folds the characteristics Bernardo's has, but is obviously
dependent on the composition of Donatello's declining school Adoration
of the Child (No. 47).

[Figure: 65A. Marble relief of the Madonna by Ant Rossellino.]

Bernardo's younger brother, Antonio Rossellino (1427-1478), on his last monument, the Tomb Lazzari
Pistoia, documented his colleague, also appears on the character his sculptures, particularly the
youth work as a pupil of his brother. He first looks outside Florence earn his spurs: 1457
Antonio is working on the altar Sebastian in Empoli and the following year he completed the
marble shrine of Beato Marcolini, now in the Museum to Forlì. In both works he is superior to already
full of champions and his brother by freer movement and finer understanding of nature, which, especially
in the soft, tasteful Treatment of the drapery and expressed in the masterful playing of the
flesh. The statue of Sebastian in Empoli is one of the most beautiful open-figures of the early
Renaissance.

Such work had the artist in the home where they performed very likely
were quickly gain respect and carry out orders.

In 1461 he was in fact in such great shape to part: the construction of the chapel for the grave
in 1459 who died young Cardinal of Portugal with his tomb in San Miniato al Monte. Antonio
took this job solved in a way that the chapel, although his altarpiece by Piero Pallajuolo deprived
still justly famous as a jewelry box Quattrocento Florentine art, and the tomb, if not the greatest,
then as the most attractive monument of the grave Renaissance may apply. Already appears in
the shape of the stretched out on the bed of Deceased's death only as a gentle sleep as a
rest to life, so the supernatural joy of the future life deliciously in the crowd of angels expressed
brought, of which some of the Madonna with the Christ child in the mandorla to the deceased wear
down, the other kneeling with the crown to his side.

The two motifs: death and life, come in clever, effective way in the architectural design and
decoration advantage.

This work, which the master probably employed a number of years, almost exclusively, followed
by various major and minor Madonna reliefs in marble, as the large Madonna del latte in Sat Croce,
with its rich accompaniment excellent relief in Solarolo, a small relief in the museum at Vienna
and a second in the Bargello, the last round relief ibid and a reworking of worship of this
composition to a richly structured and highly cleanly carved altar in the church Montoliveto
to Naples. For his championship and his taste in playing the full individuality be two simultaneously
(1468) resulting marble busts of older men in the Bargello and the South Kensington Museum, the most
brilliant Testimony. His special talent for rendering the child to express a number of children
Busts in Chiesa de 'Vanchettoni to Florence, the Bargello, in Pal. Martelli, in Medaillenkabinet,
with G. Dreyfus in Paris and in the collection Hainauer in Berlin, ail in marble. Some Thongruppen
the Virgin and Child, probably released models for larger works in
marble, by the opinion of the child almost as genre scenes.

The most precious of these groups is the Madonna with the smiling child in the South Kensington
Museum.

[Illustration: 149A. Painted Thonbüste St. Elizabeth of Ant Rossellino.]

As Antonio was appointed to his previous time to complete a monument, about that his brother
was hingestorben (Lazzari tomb in Pistoia, completed in 1468), he himself has a big contract he
received from Naples, the tomb of Mary in 1470 deceased of Aragon for the Church of Montoliveto, can
only begin. The execution of this Monuments for which stipulated the tomb of the Cardinal of Portugal
as a model explicitly was, is, in all material respects by the hand of Benedetto da Majano.

[Figure: 67 Marble bust of Rossellino Ant.]

The Berlin collection includes a wide range of diverse work of A.
Rossellino Teaching about the artist in an advantageous manner, besides
several replicas painted stucco reliefs of the Madonna (No. 66 and
68 to 70), various originals.

In the large marble relief the Madonna, which holds the child in
the womb (No. 65A), the collection has a very handwritten and also
probably the most perfect work of the master in this art, the modeling,
as the children's body and into the hands of Mary, is with unbeatable
fidelity and Fineness of nature by listening, and the treatment of
the relief from the very flat salary Cherubim in the upper corners
until the whole of the Christ child is in high relief carved body
very picturesque effect, the execution in marble of the highest delicacy.

The numerous Orders, such as the preference in the choice of marble or demands on the implementation
this material was usually in the second half of the XV. Century a strong participation of had students
and assistants in the execution of the rule and, in addition to small Thonskizzen that Production
of large models in clay as templates for the students to follow. Just by Ant Rossellino have
survived such Thonmodelle still in large numbers, all by the fine naturalistic detailing and the freshness
of the distinguished work.

This applies especially of some outstanding works of this kind in
the Berlin collection, one of Madonna with the child on richly decorated
chair (No. 65) and the large round relief with the worship the shepherd
(No. 64), which substantially modified version, the marble has Bargello
(see above).

Even a pair of busts in the collection can be efficient at least with probability attributed to
Antonio, the marble bust of a Florentine, in middle age (No. 67) and the colored Thonbüste St. Elizabeth
(No. 149A), in which the portrait of a noble nun reproduced.

[Figure: 65 Thonrelief of Our Lady of Rossellino Ant.]

As rich and beneficial as A. Rossellino is also the youngest among the large marble formers of the
fifteenth century, Benedetto da Majano (1442-1497), represented in the Berlin Museum. Benedetto
appears as a successor Rossellino's for the completion of the tomb of Mary of Aragon (After 1481);
that he has but to even in his earliest known works of a model taken in the wall altar of St..
Savinus in the cathedral of Faenza (1470). Evidently Antonio's has determined Marko Linus Monument
in Forlì building of this altar, but also treatment, Expression and emotion are the Rossellino
so related that from a closer relationship Benedetto's about this artist almost certainly
will. Even in later works is the inner relationship between the two artists, so that their
work is often confused with each other. Together them is the sense of beauty and taste, simplicity
and naturalness in view and representation, the beauty of appearance and the sweetness in the expression
of their Figures, the softness in the treatment, especially in the drapery, elegance and Elegance
in the architectural design and the decorative details. Out that, when Benedetto All these features
are sharper and, at least in his last period, already in part to the style, his figures are more
slender, the folds in the later Bulked time as appearing garments, is full and soft, and the
shapes of his figures are of a more general beauty, the term sometimes has a slightly empty
dreamy sweetness, and the figure-rich compositions there is a lack
of dramatic View more energetic and movement.

Within his ability but still a Benedetto such a happy and diverse
activity unfolds, that he among the sculptors of the last Quattrocento
in Florence called primarily to be earned.

The above-mentioned work of the youth Savinusaltars follows in Faenza in Florence on behalf of
P. Meilini, whose bust of an old man from the 1474 now has the Bargello, the famous Croce pulpit
in Sat. She is particularly distinguished by their happy relationships and the graceful decoration.
A Thonmodell one of the reliefs from the life of St. Franz has the Berlin collection: the (rejected
on execution) vision of Pope Innocent III. (No. 87). Around the same time (1475), the altar of St. seems.
Fina have come to the Collegiate San Gimignano, in the building through Rossellino's grave monument
influenced in San Miniato. Due to the delicacy of feeling, the sweetness of the figures and the
elegance of the decoration, he appears for his determination to glorify a Virgin particularly
suitable. Well, following that work produced for Benedetto San Domenico in Siena, the large beautifully
constructed with the evangelists on Marmorciborium Base and the beautiful figures of angels holding
candlesticks, where the side of the Finamonuments all related.

[Figure: 86 Thonstatue painted the Madonna of Ben. da Majano.]

Returning from San Gimignano, Benedetto was active for the Palazzo Vecchio in Florence, where
He performed the Marmoreinrahmung the door of the audience hall between 1475 and 1481; originally
belonged to the statue of John and the two groups of children with candelabra, which are now
situated in the Bargello. From 1480 dates the now unpainted Thonstatue the Madonna in the cathedral
of Prato, at whose base is a marble relief of the Lamentation of
Christ is.

Her superior and equal through the conservation of old paintings still appear quite similar
large statue of the Madonna in the Berlin collection (No. 86), in the compound of the naive Play
the simple fact of life with perfect grace and fine taste in arrangement may be regarded as a
masterpiece of Benedetto. Genre-like in conception and probably a little younger, a Madonna
statue in our collection (No. 89D) in which we Child asleep on the bosom of the mother of her.
Such statuettes, probably in part as Sketches and models are created, not from the later period
of Benedetto rare.

[Figure: 85 Painted Thonbüste of Fil Strozzi from Ben. da Majano.]

In the first half of the eighties completed Benedetto, the tomb of Maria of Aragon in the Church
of Montoliveto to Naples, was on its execution hingestorben A. Rossellino. In construction and
in all the figures almost true copies by the monument of the Cardinal
of Portugal, It is in the types of movement and drapery as a decoration
in the same terms Work of Benedetto, who used to conduct special care.

This work was the occasion for a second great monuments of the same
church, the marble altar with the proclamation, as a counterpart of
Rossellino's worship altar, the Master again was given as a model
for the structure.

It is missing the 1489 age monuments, for all Beauty in detail many times to the freshness and
naivete of the earlier work, also want to get to long lines on the baggy clothes partly quite disturbing
claims.

[Figure: 88


It was during the continuation of this exemption from Indian aggression, that several establishments
were made on the Monongahela and its branches, and on the Ohio river. These were nearly cotemporaneous;
the first however, in order of time, was that made on the Buchannon--a fork of the Tygart's
valley river, and was induced by a flattering account of the country as given by two brothers;
who had spent some years in various parts of it, under rather unpleasant circumstances.

Among the soldiers who garrisoned Fort Pitt, were William Childers, John and Samuel Pringle
and Joseph Linsey. In 1761, these four men deserted from the fort, and ascended the Monongahela
as far as to the mouth of George's creek (the site afterwards selected by Albert Gallatin,
for the town of Geneva.) Here they remained awhile; but not liking the [90] situation crossed
over to the head of the Youghogany; and encamping in the glades, continued there about twelve
months.

In one of their hunting rambles, Samuel Pringle came on a path, which he supposed would lead
to the inhabited part of Virginia. On his return he mentioned the discovery and his supposition,
to his comrades, and they resolved on tracing it. This they accordingly did, and it conducted
them to Loony's creek, then the most remote western settlement. While among the inhabitants
on Loony's creek, they were recognized and some of the party apprehended as deserters. John
and Samuel Pringle succeeded in making an escape to their camp in the glades, where they remained
'till some time in the year 1764.

During this year, and while in the employ of John Simpson (a trapper, who had come there in
quest of furs,) they determined on removing farther west. Simpson was induced to this, by the
prospect of enjoying the woods free from the intrusion of other hunters (the glades having
begun to be a common hunting ground for the inhabitants of the South Branch;) while a regard
for their personal safety, caused the Pringles to avoid a situation, in which they might be
exposed to the observation of other men.

In journeying through the wilderness, and after having crossed Cheat river at the Horse shoe,
a quarrel arose between Simpson and one of the Pringles; and notwithstanding that peace and
harmony were so necessary to their mutual safety and comfort; yet each so far indulged the
angry passions which had been excited, as at length to produce a separation.

Simpson crossed over the Valley river, near the mouth of Pleasant creek, and passing on to
the head of another water course, gave to it the name of Simpson's creek. Thence he went westwardly,
and fell over on a stream which he called Elk: at the mouth of this he erected a camp, and
continued to reside for more than twelve months. During this time he neither saw the Pringles
nor any other human being; and at the expiration of it went to the South Branch, where he disposed
of his furs and skins and then returned to, and continued at, his encampment at the mouth of
Elk, until permanent settlements were made in its vicinity.

The Pringles kept up the Valley river 'till they observed a large right hand fork, (now Buchannon),[1]
which they ascended [91] some miles; and at the mouth of a small branch (afterward called Turkey
run) they took up their abode in the cavity of a large Sycamore tree.[2] The stump of this
is still to be seen, and is an object of no little veneration with the immediate descendants
of the first settlers.

The situation of these men, during a residence here of several years, although rendered somewhat
necessary by their previous conduct, could not have been very enviable. Deserters from the
army, a constant fear of discovery filled their minds with inquietude.--In the vicinity of
a savage foe, the tomahawk and scalping knife were ever present to their imaginations.--Remote
from civilized man, their solitude was hourly interrupted by the frightful shrieks of the panther,
or the hideous howlings of the wolf.--And though the herds of Buffalo, Elk and Deer, which
gamboled sportively around, enabled them easily to supply their larder; yet the want of salt,
of bread, and of every species of kitchen vegetable, must have abated their relish for the,
otherwise, delicious loin of the one, and haunch of the others. The low state of their little
magazine too, while it limited their hunting, to the bare procuration of articles of subsistence,
caused them, from a fear of discovery, to shrink at the idea of being driven to the settlements,
for a supply of ammunition. And not until they were actually reduced to two loads of powder,
could they be induced to venture again into the vicinity of their fellow men. In the latter
part of the year 1767, John left his brother, and intending to make for a trading post on the
Shenandoah, appointed the period of his return.

Samuel Pringle, in the absence of John, suffered a good deal. The stock of provisions left
him became entirely exhausted--one of his loads of powder, was expended in a fruitless attempt
to shoot a buck--his brother had already delayed his return several days longer than was intended,
and he was apprehensive that he had been recognized, taken to Port Pitt and would probably
never get back. With his remaining load of powder, however he was fortunate enough to kill
a fine buffalo; and John soon after returned with the news of peace, both with the Indians
and French. The two brothers agreed to leave their retirement.

Their wilderness habitation was not left without some regret. Every object around, had become
more or less endeared to them. The tree, in whose hollow they had been so [92] frequently sheltered
from storm and tempest, was regarded by them with so great reverence, that they resolved, so
soon as they could prevail on a few others to accompany them, again to return to this asylum
of their exile.

In a population such as then composed the chief part of the South Branch settlement, this was
no difficult matter. All of them were used to the frontier manner of living; the most of them
had gone thither to acquire land; many had failed entirely in this object, while others were
obliged to occupy poor and broken situations off the river; the fertile bottoms having been
previously located. Add to this the passion for hunting (which was a ruling one with many,)
and the comparative scarcity of game in their neighborhood, and it need not excite surprise
that the proposition of the Pringles to form a settlement, in such a country as they represented
that on Buchannon to be, was eagerly embraced by many.

In the fall of the ensuing year (1768) Samuel Pringle, and several others who wished first
to examine for themselves, visited the country which had been so long occupied by the Pringles
alone. Being pleased with it, they, in the following spring, with a few others, repaired thither,
with the view of cultivating as much corn, as would serve their families the first year after
their emigration. And having examined the country, for the purpose of selecting the most desirable
situations; some of them proceeded to improve the spots of their choice. John Jackson (who
was accompanied by his sons, George and Edward) settled at the mouth of Turkey run, where his
daughter, Mrs. Davis, now lives--John Hacker[3] higher up on the Buchannon river, where Bush's
fort was afterwards established, and Nicholas Heavener now lives--Alexander and Thomas Sleeth,
near to Jackson's, on what is now known as the Forenash plantation. The others of the party
(William Hacker, Thomas and Jesse Hughes, John and William Radcliff and John Brown) appear
to have employed their time exclusively in hunting; neither of them making any improvement
of land for his own benefit. Yet were they of very considerable service to the new settlement.
Those who had commenced clearing land, were supplied by them with abundance of meat, while
in their hunting excursions through the country, a better knowledge of it was obtained, than
could have been acquired, had they been engaged in making improvements.

[93] In one of these expeditions they discovered, and gave name to Stone coal creek; which
flowing westwardly, induced the supposition that it discharged itself directly into the Ohio.
Descending this creek, to ascertain the fact, they came to its confluence with a river, which
they then called, and has since been known as, the West Fork. After having gone some distance
down the river, they returned by a different route to the settlement, better pleased with the
land on it and some of its tributaries, than with that on Buchannon.

Soon after this, other emigrants arrived under the guidance of Samuel Pringle. Among them were,
John and Benjamin Cutright, who settled on Buchannon, where John Cutright the younger, now
lives; and Henry Rule who improved just above the mouth of Fink's run. Before the arrival of
Samuel Pringle, John Hacker had begun to improve the spot which Pringle had chosen for himself.
To prevent any unpleasant result, Hacker agreed that if Pringle would clear as much land, on
a creek which had been recently discovered by the hunters, as he had on Buchannon, they could
then exchange places. Complying with this condition Pringle took possession of the farm on
Buchannon, and Hacker of the land improved by Pringle on the creek, which was hence called
Hacker's creek.[4] John and William Radcliff, then likewise settled on this stream--the former
on the farm, where the Rev. John Mitchel now lives; the latter at the place now owned by William
Powers Esq.--These comprise all the improvements which were made on the upper branches of the
Monongahela in the years 1769 and 1770.

At the close of the working season of 1769 some of these adventurers, went to their families
on the South Branch; and when they returned to gather their crops in the fall, found them entirely
destroyed. 

Niccolo Pisano and the Proto-Renaissance (around 1250 to 1300).

The sculptures, in which the sculptural decoration of the portals of the cathedral at Lucca's conclusion
received: the Deposition in the bezel, the Nativity and the Adoration of the Kings on Architrave
of the left portal, showing an artist completely different, completely new kind here There is real
and vivid sense of great, even in the Descent view an almost massive; besides, even the slightly
older sculptures of the other side portal appear only as biased Services diligent stonemasons.
Vasari called these works the artist Niccolo Pisano (c. 1206 to after
1280), rightly, as the comparison with its certified Work, especially
with the 1260 age pulpit in the Baptistery of Pisa shows.

[Illustration: pulpit of Niccolo Pisano in the Baptistery of Pisa.]

The sculptor Niccolo di Piero, who calls himself after his birthplace Pisano, stands on the Shoulders
of the older Lombard-Tuscan Bildnerschule: specifically he has in the works from the façade
of the Cathedral of Lucca his immediate predecessors. This applies to the plastic Design as
for the intellectual content of his art, while the decorative, to Byzantine Plastic models
reared in Southern Italy, with which one of the Niccolo (questionable because of the Origin
of his father from Apulia) want to bring the name, in full contrast to Niccolo's art is. But even
over that of older plastic, from which he shows The artist actually seems quite a reformer.
Niccolo Pisano is not a Naturalist as the masters of the fifteenth century, the artists of the
Cinquecento it is much closer, for his highest aspiration is classic beauty, which he through the study
and occasionally even get too close by direct replica of the ancient world examined. Of course,
were in Italy ancient remains before, so regularly in the Middle Ages, the model for artistic
activity been, but this was their own failure in half unconscious, slavish manner sought to
imitate ancient models. When Niccolo Pisano is the connection to the ancient world, that Beauty
he first clearly detected again, a completely conscious, the models
chosen from the ancient monuments and buy their garments, their technique
of how he uses for his used to believe. Several of those who accompanied the adventurers, likewise remained with
Colonel Zane, in the capacity of laborers.

After having made those preparations which were immediately requisite for the reception of
their respective families, they returned to their former homes. In the ensuing year they finally
left the South Branch, and accompanied by Col. David Shepherd, (the father of Col. Moses Shepherd,)
John Wetzel (the father of Lewis) and the McCulloughs--men whose names are identified with
the early history of that country--repaired again to the wilderness, and took up their permanent
abode in it.

Soon after this, other settlements were made at different points, both above and below Wheeling;
and the country on Buffalo, Short, and Grave creeks,[8] and on the Ohio river, became the abode
of civilized man. Among those who were first to occupy above Wheeling, were George Lefler,
John Doddridge, Benjamin Biggs, Daniel Greathouse, Joshua Baker and Andrew Swearingen.[9]

[96] The settlement thus made constituting a kind of advance guard, through which an Indian
enemy would have to penetrate, before they could reach the interior, others were less reluctant
to occupy the country between them and the Alleghany mountains. Accordingly various establishments
were soon made in it by adventurers from different parts of Maryland, Pennsylvania and Virginia;
and those places in which settlements had been previously effected, received considerable accessions
to their population.

In 1772, that comparatively beautiful region of country, lying on the east fork of the Monongahela
river, between the Alleghany mountains, on its south eastern, and the Laurel Hill, or as it
is there called the Rich mountain, on its north western side, and which had received the denomination
of Tygart's valley, again attracted the attention of emigrants.--In the course of that year,
the greater part of this valley was located, by persons said to have been enticed thither by
the description given of it, by some hunters from Greenbrier who had previously explored it.
Game, though a principal, was not however their sole object. They possessed themselves at once
of nearly all the level land lying between those mountains--a plain of 25 or 30 miles in length
and varying from three fourths to two miles in width, and of fine soil. 

So it happened that a number of villages burned. Many of the residents fled in the next few
places there and told the horror story of the fire, but the telling they do not, they blame themselves
for this disaster was. Thus the fear of the Germans and the hatred against them larger still.

A
large village, which was divided by a river into two parts, was in
this way fire shot, but only the part that had been fired from the.

 Robert Butler, William Morgan and some others settled on the Dunkard bottom.

In this year too, settlements were made on Simpson's creek, the West Fork river and on Elk
creek. Those who made the former, were John Powers, who purchased Simpson's right (a tomahawk
improvement)[10] to the land on which Benjamin [97] Stout now resides; and James Anderson and
Jonas Webb who located themselves farther up the creek. But once they discovered in the
distance a small black dot that moved forward and the gradually increasing was. Since they stopped
working.

"Only a child," said one now.

"Our child," said one woman.

It was the mother of Pierre, she recognized him and called the others
who continued working in the field above to: "Pierre is and how it
runs and waves!

He has something to say. Holy Mary, Mother of God, as the child jumps! "
Then they laid all the devices it from his hand and went to meet
the boy.

He was not a little proud when they all stood around and
listened to him in what he reports knew. That the lower village was
set on fire and many people were killed there. So great was the increase of population in this latter neighborhood, that
the crops of the preceding season did not afford more than one third of the breadstuff, which
would be ordinarily consumed in the same time, by an equal number of persons. Such indeed was
the state of suffering among the inhabitants, consequent on this scarcity, that the year 1773
is called in the traditionary legends of that day, the starving year; and such were the exertions
of William Lowther to mitigate that suffering, and so great the success with which they were
crowned, that his name has been transmitted to their descendants, hallowed by the blessings
of those, whose wants he contributed so largely to relieve.[11]

[98] These were the principal settlements begun in North Western Virginia, prior to the year
1774. Few and scattered as they were, no sooner was it known that they were commenced, than
hundreds flocked to them from different parts; and sought there the gratifications of their
respective predilections. We do not have a stroller. We were
very poor, Mom, at first, but now we have a sewing machine, because women can Peter earn much
more, now it's better. "

"Was it good, the wife of Peter?"

"Yes, Mama. Former homes, encircled by the comforts of civilization, endeared by
the grateful recollections of by-gone days, and not unfrequently, consecrated as the spots
where their tenants had first inhaled the vital fluid, were readily exchanged for "the variety
of untried being, the new scenes and changes," which were to be passed, before the trees of
the forest could be supplanted, by the fruits of the field, or society be reared in the solitude
of the desert. With a capability to sustain fatigue, not to be subdued by toil; and with a
cheerfulness, not easily to be depressed; a patience which could mock at suffering and a daring
which nothing could daunt, every difficulty which intervened, every obstacle which was interposed
between them and the accomplishment of the objects of their pursuit, was surmounted or removed;
and in a comparatively brief space of time, they rose to the enjoyment of many of those gratifications,
which are experienced in earlier and more populous settlements. That their morals should, for
a while, have suffered deterioration, and their manners and habits, instead of [99] approximating
those of refined society, should have become perhaps, more barbarous and uncouth, was the inevitable
consequence of their situation, and the certain result of circumstances, which they could not
control. 

That was also a German lieutenant peacefully quartered with two old people who have their little
grandson with him, had a boy about nine years. The boy liked the officer, He looked very smart
and was polite to his grandparents. The planting of colonies, or the formation of establishments in new countries, is
ever attended with circumstances unpropitious to refinement. The force with which these circumstances
act, will be increased or diminished in proportion to the remoteness or proximity of those
new establishments, to older societies, in which the arts and sciences are cultivated; and
to the facility of communication between them. Man is, at all times, the creature of circumstances.
Cut off from an intercourse with his fellow men, and divested of the conveniences of life,
he will readily relapse into a state of nature.--Placed in contiguity with the barbarous and
the vicious; his manners will become rude, his morals perverted.--Brought into collision with
the sanguinary and revengeful; and his own conduct will eventually be distinguished, by bloody
and vindictive deeds. While the busts in the Museum at Capua seem rather Works
from the last expiration period of Roman art to be, but it will remain as indubitable Work this
time, a few busts, in the pulpit at the Cathedral Sigilgaïta Rufolo to Ravello and two related,
yet fleeting relief heads treated in the same pulpit (from 1272), as well as from the immediate
vicinity of Ravello bust of a native young princess in Berlin (No. 28). Both busts, though not
under slightly different, vote in the pursuit of possible follow-on late Roman work, even in the technical
Consistent treatment. With the separation of this work it is closer to the same influences Master the
art of Pisa (see p. 16) due, as the other way around it to southern Italy to close as the home of
the art of Niccolo Pisano. As the great raw plastic in southern Italy at that time was, it gives
the statue of Charles of Anjou, now at the stairs of the Conservatorenpalastes in Rome, is striking
proof.

In Venice and its surroundings we find also one of the southern Italian kindred Development
of plastic: the Byzantine influence also prevents a clear unique Design, and here are long time
active, and provide excellent Byzantine artists later through their work, the role models for the
volatile replicas of the local Artists. Even more than in southern Italy remains in Venice of the
pictorial decorations on ornamental Ornaments limited, which are intertwined with representations
of animals in a fantastic manner. A characteristic sign of the fear of free sculpture is the
fact that even the middle of the XIII. Cent for the monuments of ancient tombs of the Doges
were used. Where we meet at the buildings of the period of plastic jewelry, it is either from
the East brought over or oriental models imitated. Exceptions, such as the pillars of the Tabernacle
San Marco, (if not some early Christian), only prove the rule: they are very categorized by type of
Elfenbeinschnitzwerke and the gold work and with very little Reliefs as overspun, work done
in their clean, fearful execution each major visual sense can miss. The Berlin museum has a whole
Collection of characteristic Venetian decorative pieces, as today the exterior and interior
of the Romanesque churches and the facades of the palaces of Venice and simultaneous the neighboring
villages on the islands in rich mosaic arrangement cover. (No. 11 et seq.).

Even more exclusively than in southern Italy in Rome and Venice is
the activity of the sculptor limited to purely decorative work, so
this actually dispensed even on plastic Ornamental forms, and it made
a neat and colorful mosaic jewelry system, which borrows from ancient
examples from the inexhaustible supply of Roman chocks in precious
stones of all kinds caused collected his material and just by the
abundance and Value of the same was suggested for the formation of
these decorative manner; appointed Cosmatenarbeit, especially because
the Marmorarius Cosmas and his family exercised the same.

 These
were perhaps, totally regardless of all the inconveniencies, [101] resulting from their new
situation; except that of being occasionally pent up in forts; and thus debarred the enjoyment
of their favorite pastimes.

Although hunting was not the object of most of the old settlers, yet it was for a good part
of the year, the chief employment of their time. And of all those, who thus made their abode
in the dense forest, and tempted aggression from the neighboring Indians, none were so well
qualified to resist this aggression, and to retaliate upon its authors, as those who were mostly
engaged in this pursuit. Of all their avocations, this "mimickry of war" best fitted them to
thwart the savages in their purpose, and to mitigate the horrors of their peculiar mode of
warfare. Those arts which enabled them, unperceived to approach the watchful deer in his lair,
enabled them likewise to circumvent the Indian in his ambush; and if not always punish, yet
frequently defeat him in his object. Add to this the perfect knowledge which they acquired
of the woods, and the ease and certainty with which they consequently, when occasion required,
could make their way to any point of the settlements and apprize the inhabitants of approaching
danger; and it will be readily admitted that the more expert and successful the huntsman, the
more skillful and effective the warrior.

But various soever, as may have been their objects in emigrating, no sooner had they come together,
than there existed in each settlement, a perfect unison of feeling. Similitude of situation
and community of danger, operating as a magic charm, stifled in their birth those little bickerings,
which are so apt to disturb the quiet of society. Ambition of preferment and the pride of place,
too often lets and hindrances to social intercourse, were unknown among them. Equality of condition
rendered them strangers alike, to the baneful distinctions created by wealth and other adventitious
circumstances; and to envy, which gives additional virus to their venom. A sense of mutual
dependence for their common security linked them in amity; and conducting their several purposes
in harmonious concert, together they toiled and together suffered.

Not all the "pomp and pride and pageantry" of life, could vie with the Arcadian scenes which
encircled the rude cottages of those men. Their humble dwellings were the abode of virtues,
rarely found in the "cloud capt towers and [102] gorgeous palaces" of splendid ambition. And
when peace reigned around them, neither the gaudy trappings of wealth, nor the insignia of
office, nor the slaked thirst for distinction, could have added to the happiness which they
enjoyed.

In their intercourse with others they were kind, beneficent and disinterested; extending to
all, the most generous hospitality which their circumstances could afford. That selfishness,
which prompts to liberality for the sake of remuneration, and proffers the civilities of life
with an eye to individual interest, was unknown to them. They were kind for kindness sake;
and sought no other recompense, than the never failing concomitant of good deeds--the reward
of an approving conscience.

It is usual for men in the decline of life, to contrast the scenes which are then being exhibited,
with those through which they passed in the days of youth; and not unfrequently, to moralize
on the decay of those virtues, which enhance the enjoyment of life and give to pleasure its
highest relish. The mind is then apt to revert to earlier times, and to dwell with satisfaction
on the manners and customs which prevailed in the hey-day of youth. Every change which may
have been wrought in them is deemed a deteriorating innovation, and the sentence of their condemnation
unhesitatingly pronounced. This is not always, the result of impartial and discriminating judgment.
It is perhaps, more frequently founded in prepossession; and based on the prejudices of education
and habit.

On the other hand those who are just entering on the vestibule of life, are prone to give preference
to the habits of the present generation; viewing, too often, with contemptuous derision, those
of the past. Mankind certainly advance in intelligence and refinement; but virtue and happiness
do not at all times keep pace with this progress. "To inform the understanding," is not always
"to correct and enlarge the heart;" nor do the blandishments of life invariably add to the
sum of moral excellence; they are often "as dead sea fruit that tempts the eye, but turns to
ashes on the lips."--While a rough exterior as frequently covers a temper of the utmost benignity,
happy in itself and giving happiness to all around.

Such were the pioneers of this country; and the greater part of mankind might now derive advantage
from the [103] contemplation of "their humble virtues, hospitable homes and spirits patient,
noble, proud and free--their self respect, grafted on innocent thoughts; their days of health
and nights of sleep--their toils, by danger dignified, yet guiltless--their hopes of cheerful
old age and a quiet grave, with cross and garland over its green turf, and their grand children's
love for epitaph."

-----
   [1] Now spelled Buckhannon.--R. G. T.

   [2] Sycamores, which attain gigantic proportions, are given
       to rotting in the lower portions of the trunk, and chambers
       eight feet in diameter are not uncommon. In the course of a
       canoe voyage down the Ohio, in the summer of 1894, I frequently
       saw such cavities, with the openings stopped by pickets or
       rails, utilized by small bottom farmers as hog-pens,
       chicken-coops, and calf stalls.

       L. V. McWhorter, of Berlin, W. Va., who has kindly sent me
       several MS. notes on Withers's Chronicles (all of which will
       be duly credited where used in this edition), writes: "The aged
       sycamore now (1894) occupying the site, is the third
       generation--the grand-child--of that which housed the Pringles.
       It stands on the farm of Webster Dix, who assures me that it
       shall not be destroyed. A tradition held by his descendants has
       it, that when John Pringle went back to the South Branch for
       ammunition, Charity, the wife of Samuel, who was left behind,
       started immediately for the wilderness home of her husband, and
       found him by the path which John had blazed for his own
       return."--R. G. T.

   [3] This early and meritorious pioneer was born near
       Winchester, Va., Jan. 1, 1743, figured prominently in the
       Indian wars of his region, and served on Col. G. R. Clark's
       Illinois campaign of 1778; he died at his home on Hacker's
       Creek, April 20, 1821, in his 82d year.--L. C. D.

   [4] Its Indian name signified "Muddy Water."--R. G. T.

   [5] We have already seen (p. 74, note), that Gist settled
       at Mount Braddock, Fayette county, in 1753, and that eleven
       families joined him in January, 1754. There is a tradition that
       settlers were in the district even before Gist. It has been
       shown that the Gist settlements, and others in the lower
       Monongahela, were burned by the French in July, 1754. The
       English borderers fled upon the outbreak of disturbances, and
       did not return until about 1760-61, when confidence had been
       restored.--R. G. T.

   [6] Both Van Meter and Swan afterwards served under Col. G.
       R. Clark--at least, on the Kaskaskia campaign; Swan commanded a
       company on Clark's Shawnee campaign of 1780, and Van Meter on
       that of 1782. The latter moved to Kentucky in 1780; settled in
       Hardin county, Ky., Nov. 16th, 1798, in his seventy-sixth
       year.--L. C. D.

       ------

       Comment by R. G. T.--This note, written by Dr. Draper a few
       days before his death (Aug. 26, 1891), was probably his last
       stroke of literary work.

   [7] These gentlemen were descendants of a Mr. Zane who
       accompanied William Penn, to his province of Pennsylvania, and
       from whom, one of the principal streets in Philadelphia,
       derived its name. Their father was possessed of a bold and
       daring spirit of adventure, which was displayed on many
       occasions, in the earlier part of his life. Having rendered
       himself obnoxious to the Society of Friends (of which he was a
       member,) by marrying without the pale of that society, he moved
       to Virginia and settled on the South Branch, where the town of
       Moorfield has been since erected. One of his sons (Isaac) was
       taken by the Indians, when he was only nine years old, and
       carried in captivity, to Mad river, in Ohio. Here he continued
       'till habit reconciled him to his situation, when he married a
       squaw, became a chief and spent the remainder of his life with
       them. He was never known to wage war against the whites; but
       was, on several occasions, of infinite service, by apprising
       them of meditated attacks of the Indians. His descendants still
       reside in Ohio.

       The brothers, Ebenezer, Silas and Jonathan, who settled
       Wheeling, [95] were also men of enterprise, tempered with
       prudence, and directed by sound judgment. Ready at all times,
       to resist and punish the aggression of the Indians, they were
       scrupulously careful not to provoke them by acts of wanton
       outrage, such as were then, too frequently committed along the
       frontier. Col. Ebenezer Zane had been among the first, to
       explore the country from the South Branch, through the
       Alleghany glades, and west of them. He was accompanied in that
       excursion by Isaac Williams, two gentlemen of the name of
       Robinson and some others; but setting off rather late in the
       season, and the weather being very severe, they were compelled
       to return, without having penetrated to the Ohio river. On
       their way home, such was the extremity of cold, that one of the
       Robinsons died of its effects. Williams was much frost bitten,
       and the whole party suffered exceedingly. To the bravery and
       good conduct of those three brothers, the Wheeling settlement
       was mainly indebted for its security and preservation, during
       the war of the revolution.

   [8] Joseph Tomlinson surveyed a claim at the mouth of Grave
       Creek, about 1770, but did not settle there until 1772. His
       cabin was the nucleus of the present Moundsville, W.
       Va.--R. G. T.

   [9] John Doddridge settled in Washington county, Pa., on the
       Ohio River a few miles east of the Pennsylvania-Virginia state
       line, in 1773; his son, Joseph Doddridge, was the author of
       Notes on the Settlements and Indian Wars of the Western Parts
       of Virginia and Pennsylvania, 1763-83, a valuable antiquarian
       work. Tamagnini and Pace Gagini in Pal. San Giorgio ibid.; harsh
and angular, the image works with which particular his leadership during Tommaso Rotari the
cathedral in Como (1487-1526) decorated the inside and outside the church has. A contemporary,
Vincenzo Foppa Gen. Caradosso (c. 1445-1527), later as a goldsmith and engraver the court of
the popes decades long, has worked in Milan as an assistant Bramante's the decoration of the
sacristy of S. Satiro Thonreliefs with playing in the putting, which Medallions with character
heads, surrounded by works of pure plastic feel and live fuller Created through education, which
betrayed the study Donatello'scher work (to 1488). In the resulting large open well past the
Lamentation of Christ group in the same church (if rightly attached to it?) follow the direction
of G. Mazzoni in a stylish, larger Way. Of the younger artists Tommaso Cozzanigo and Andrea
Fusina have in the Milanese A number of smaller churches leave grave monuments which by their restriction
by refined sense of relationships and delicate decoration of those older monuments still the
far more famous monuments of their contemporaries Cristoforo Solari and Agostino Busti Gen.
Bambaja (1480-1548) deserve much preferred. Especially in the delicacy of cured Bambaja work,
even in his major works, the tomb of Gaston de Foix (now in individual Share in the museums of
Milan, Turin, London, etc.) too easily in confectioner work, the elegance of the slender figures
with their garments with numerous small parallel folds into empty mannerism, the sweetness of
the sweet heads of affectation. The artist, the younger than most sculptors of the High Renaissance,
and it survives in large part, has therefore Nor had the strength of the mannered refinement of
the early Renaissance Lombardy to the idea in the paths of the High Renaissance in full.
 His
       example might teach others, that offices were created for the
       public good, not for private emolument. If aspirants for office
       at the present day, were to regard its perquisites less, and
       their fitness for the discharge of its duties more, the country
       would enjoy a greater portion of happiness and prosperity, and
       a sure foundation for the permanence of these be laid, in the
       more disinterested character of her counsellors, and their
       consequently, increased devotion to her interests.

  [12] The Spaniards at New Orleans, from the first settlement
       of the country west of the Alleghany Mountains, sought to
       attach it to the province of Louisiana. Knowing the powerful
       efficacy of gold, in producing such results, they dispensed it
       with a liberal hand, to such as made New Orleans their market.
       The attachment of the first settlers, to the free institutions
       of our country, baffled every attempt to detach them from it.

       ------

       Comment by R. G. T.--The Spanish conspiracy was, in the main,
       "baffled" by the prompt action of our general government.
       George Rogers Clark and several other leading Kentuckians were
       quite willing to be "detached," for a consideration. The fact
       is, that at first the sense of national patriotism was weak,
       west of the Alleghanies; the eighteenth century had closed
       before efforts at separation from the East were commonly
       regarded as treason. The interests of the Western people
       apparently were centered in the south-flowing Mississippi; they
       seemed to have at the time little in common with the East. So
       long as Spain held the mouth of the river, many Western leaders
       thought it not improper that the West should ally itself with
       that power; when our government finally purchased the Spanish
       claim, the Western men had no further complaint. See
       Roosevelt's treatment of the Spanish conspiracy, in his
       Winning of the West, III., ch. iii.--R. G. T.

[104] CHAPTER VI.

In the year 1774, the peace, which had subsisted with but little violation since the treaty
of 1765, received an interruption, which checked for a while the emigration to the North Western
frontier; and involved its infant settlements in a war with the Indians. This result has been
attributed to various causes. Some have asserted that it had its origin in the murder of some
Indians on the Ohio river both above and below Wheeling, in the spring of that year. Others
suppose it to have been produced by the instigation of British emissaries, and the influence
of Canadian traders.

That it was not caused by the murders at Captina, and opposite the mouth of Yellow creek,[1]
is fairly inferrible from the fact, that several Indians had been previously murdered by the
whites in a period of the most profound tranquillity, without having led to a similar issue;
or even given rise to any act of retaliation, on the part of the friends or countrymen of those,
who had been thus murdered.

At different periods of time, between the peace of 1765, and the renewal of hostilities in
1774, three Indians were unprovokedly killed by John Ryan, on the Ohio, Monongahela and Cheat
rivers. The first who suffered from the unrestrained licentiousness of this man, was an Indian
of distinction in his tribe, and known by the name of Capt. Peter; the other two were private
warriors. And but that Governor Dunmore, from the representations made to him, was induced
[105] to offer a reward for his apprehension, which caused him to leave the country, Ryan would
probably have continued to murder every Indian, with whom he should chance to meet, wandering
through the settlements.

Several Indians were likewise killed on the South Branch, while on a friendly visit to that
country, in the interval of peace. This deed is said to have been done by Henry Judah, Nicholas
Harpold and their associates; and when Judah was arrested for the offence, so great was the
excitement among those who had suffered from savage enmity, that he was rescued from confinement
by upwards of two hundred men, collected for that especial purpose.

The Bald Eagle was an Indian of notoriety, not only among his own nation, but also with the
inhabitants of the North Western frontier; with whom he was in the habit of associating and
hunting. In one of his visits among them, he was discovered alone, by Jacob Scott, William
Hacker and Elijah Runner, who, reckless of the consequences, murdered him, solely to gratify
a most wanton thirst for Indian blood. After the commission of this most outrageous enormity,
they seated him in the stern of a canoe, and with a piece of journey-cake thrust into his mouth,
set him afloat in the Monongahela. In this situation he was seen descending the river, by several,
who supposed him to be as usual, returning from a friendly hunt with the whites in the upper
settlements, and who expressed some astonishment that he did not stop to see them. The canoe
floating near to the shore, below the mouth of George's creek, was observed by a Mrs. Province,
who had it brought to the bank, and the friendly, but unfortunate old Indian decently buried.

Not long after the murder of the Bald Eagle, another outrage of a similar nature was committed
on a peaceable Indian, by William White; and for which he was apprehended and taken to Winchester
for trial. But the fury of the populace did not suffer him to remain there awaiting that event.--The
prison doors were forced, the irons knocked off him and he again set at liberty.

But a still more atrocious act is said to have been soon after perpetrated. Vecchietta's Statues
of Paul (1458) and Peter (1460) at the Loggia de 'Nobili, therefore, appear next to Federighi's
energetic characters weak and unprincipled, and the bronze statue of Christ on the altar of
the hospital church and the marble relief of St. Jerome at the entrance to the Libreria seem
petty by the exaggerated emphasis on the details. In the bronze figure of the grave Marino Soccino
(now in the Bargello, Florence) and especially in the 1465-1472 running Bronzetabernakel on
the high altar of the Cathedral of Siena are, however his good qualities to full advantage: the
beauty and charm of its youthful characters, the taste under construction and decoration, the
efficient study of nature and the mastery of the implementation and technology in molding, Ciselierung
and patination.

The Vecchietta are a number of younger artists, who usually also active as a painter were closely related.
Said Francesco di Giorgio (1439-1502), the most efficient work different Bronze angel's next
Vecchietta tabernacle are (1497), gracious figures of beautiful Movement and very picturesque
treated garments. Also Neroccio di Bartolommeo (1447-1500), Statue of St. Catherine in his baptistery
of the cathedral (1487) the Federighi and Gio. di Stefano still close, appears regularly in
his sober and even weak forms, and in the Piccolomini tomb in the
cathedral he depends on Federighi's Monument Bartoli. And notwithstanding that they denied
ever having seen an Indian in their absence, yet it was the prevailing opinion, that they had
destroyed all the men, women and children at Bulltown, and threw their bodies into the river.
Indeed, one of the party is said to have, inadvertently, used expressions, confirmatory of
this opinion; and to have then justified the deed, by saying that the clothes and other things
known to have belonged to Stroud's family, were found in the possession of the Indians. The
village was soon after visited, and found to be entirely desolated, and nothing being ever
after heard of its former inhabitants, there can remain no doubt but that the murder of Stroud's
family, was requited on them.

Here then was a fit time for the Indians to commence a system of retaliation and war, if they
were disposed to engage in hostilities, for offences of this kind alone. Yet no such event
was the consequence of the killing of the Bulltown Indians, or of those other murders which
preceded that outrage; and it may be hence rationally concluded, that the murders on the Ohio
river did not lead to such an event. If however, a doubt should still remain, that doubt is
surely removed by the declaration of Logan himself. It was his family that was killed opposite
Yellow creek, about the last of April; and in the following July (after the expedition against
the Wappatomica towns, under Col. McDonald) he says, "the Indiens are not angry on account
of those murders, but only myself." The fact is, that hostilities had commenced before the
happening of the affair at Captina, or that near Yellow creek; and these, instead of having
produced that event, were the consequence of the previous hostile movements of the Indians.

[107] Those who lived more immediately in the neighborhood of the scene of action at that time,
were generally of opinion, that the Indians were urged to war by the instigation of emissaries
from Great Britain, and of the Canadian traders; and, independently of any knowledge which
they may have had of the conduct of these, circumstances of a general nature would seem to
justify that opinion.

