The more flat and featureless a lowland is, the more important become even the slightest surface
irregularities which can draw faint dividing lines among the population. Here a gentle land-swell,
river, lake, forest, or water-soaked moor serves as boundary. Especially apparent is the differentiating
influence of difference of soils. Gravel and alluvium, sand and clay, chalk and more recent
marine sediments, emphasize small geographical differences throughout the North German lowland
and its extension through Belgium and Holland; here various soils differentiate the distribution
of population. In the Netherlands we find the Frisian element of the Dutch people inhabiting
chiefly the clay soils and low fens of the west and northwest, the Saxon in the diluvial tracts
of the east, and the Frankish in the river clays and diluvium of the south. All the types have
maintained their differences of dialect, styles of houses, racial character, dress and custom.[1043]
The only distinctive region in the great western lowland of France, which comprises over half
of the country, is Brittany, individualized in its people and history by its peninsula form,
its remote western location, and its infertile soil of primary rocks. Within the sedimentary
trough of the Paris Basin, a slight Cretacean platform like the meadow land of Perche[1044]
(200 to 300 meters elevation) introduces an area of thin population devoted to horse and cattle
raising in close proximity to the teeming urban life of Paris. The eastern lowland of England
also can be differentiated economically and historically chiefly according to differences of
underlying rocks, Carboniferous, Triassic, Jurassic, chalk, boulder clays, and alluvium, which
also coincide often with slight variations of relief.[1045] In Russia the contrast between
the glaciated surface of the north and the Black Mould belt of the south makes the only natural
divisions of that vast country, unless we distinguish also the arid southeastern steppes on
the basis of a purely climatic difference. [See map page 484.]

The broad coastal plain of our South Atlantic States contains only low reliefs; but it is diversified
by several soil belts, which exert a definite control over the industries of the inhabitants,
and thereby over the distribution of the negro population. In Georgia, for instance, the rich
alluvial soil of the swampy coast is devoted to the culture of rice and sea-island cotton,
and contains over 60 per cent. of negroes in its population. This belt, which is only 25 miles
wide, is succeeded inland by a broader zone of sandy pine barrens, where the proportion of
negroes drops to only 20 or 30 per cent. of the total. Yet further inland is another fertile
belt, devoted chiefly to the cultivation of upland cotton and harboring from 35 to over 60
per cent. of negroes in its population.[1046] Alabama shows a similar stratification of soils
and population from north to south over its level surface. Along the northern border of the
state the cereal belt coincides with the deep calcareous soil of the Tennessee River Valley,
where negroes constitute from 35 to 60 per cent. of the inhabitants. Next comes the mineral
belt, covering the low foot-hills of the Appalachian Mountains. It contains the densest population
of the state, less than 17 per cent. of which is negro. South of this is the broad cotton belt
of various rich soils, chiefly deep black loam of the river bottoms, which stretches east and
west across the state and includes over 60 per cent. of negroes in its population. This is
succeeded by the low, coastal timber belt, marked by a decline in the quality of the soil and
the proportion of negro inhabitants.[1047]

[Sidenote: Value of slight elevations.]

In the dead level of extensive plains even slight elevations are seized upon for special uses,
or acquire peculiar significance. The Kurgans or burial mounds of the prehistoric inhabitants
of Russia, often twenty to fifty feet high, serve to-day as watch-towers for herdsmen tending
their flocks.[1048] Similarly the Bou-bous, inhabiting the flat grasslands of the French Congo
between the Shari and Ubangui Rivers, use the low knolls dotted over their country, probably
old ant-hills, as lookout points against raiders.[1049] The sand hills and ridges which border
the southern edges of the North German lowland form districts sharply contrasted to the swampy,
wooded depressions of the old deserted river valleys just to the north. Early occupied by a
German stock, they furnished the first German colonists to displace the primitive Slav population
surviving in those unattractive, inaccessible regions, as seen in the Spreewald near Kottbus
to-day.

[Sidenote: Plains and political expansion.]

The boundless horizon which is unfavorable to a nascent people endows them in their belated
maturity with the power of mastering large areas. Political expansion is the dominant characteristic
of the peoples of the plains. Haxthausen observed that handicapped and retarded Russia commands
every geographic condition and national trait necessary for virile and expansive political
power.[1050] Muscovite expansion eastward across the lowlands of Europe and Asia is paralleled
by the rapid spread of American settlement and dominion across the plains and prairies of the
Mississippi Valley, and Hungarian domination of the wide Danubian levels from the foot-hills
of the Austrian Alps to the far Carpathian watershed. It was the closely linked lowlands of
the Seine and Loire which formed the core of political expansion and centralization in France.
Nearly the whole northern lowland of Germany has been gradually absorbed by the kingdom of
Prussia, which now comprises in its territory almost two-thirds of the total area of the Empire.
Prussian statesmen formulated the policy of German unification and colonial expansion, and
to Prussia fell the hereditary headship of the Empire.

Lowland states tend to stretch out and out to boundaries which depend more upon the reach of
the central authority than upon physical features. We have seen American settlement and dominion
overleap one natural boundary after another between the Mississippi River and the Pacific,
from 1804 to 1848. Russia in an equally short period has pushed forward its Asiatic frontier
at a dozen points, despite all barriers of desert and mountain. Argentina, blessed with extensive
plains, fertile soil and temperate climate, which have served to augment its population both
by natural increase and steady immigration (one-fourth of its population is foreign), has expanded
across the Rio Negro over the grasslands of the Patagonian plain, and thereby enlarged its
area by 259,620 square miles since 1881. The statesman of the plains is a nature-made imperialist;
he nurses wide territorial policies and draws his frontiers for the future. To him a "far-flung
battle line" is significant only as a means to secure a far-flung boundary line.

[Sidenote: Arid plains.]

From these low, accessible plains of adequate rainfall, which at first encourage primitive
nomadism but finally make it yield to sedentary life and to dense populations spreading their
farms and cities farther and farther over the unresisting surface of the land, we turn to those
boundless arid steppes and deserts which Nature has made forever the homes of restless, rootless
peoples. Here quiescence is impossible, the Völkerwanderung is habitual, migration is permanent.
The only change is this eternal restlessness. While the people move, progress stands still.
Everywhere the sun-scorched grasslands and waterless waste have drawn the dead-line to the
advance of indigenous civilization. They permit no accumulation of productive wealth beyond
increasing flocks and herds, and limit even their growth by the food supply of scanty, scattered
pasturage. The meager rainfall eliminates forests and therewith a barrier to migrations; it
also restricts vegetation to grasses, sedges and those forms which can survive a prolonged
summer drought and require a short period of growth.

[Sidenote: Distribution and extent of arid plains.]

The union of arid plains and steppe vegetation is based upon climate, and is therefore a widely
distributed phenomenon. These plains, whether high or low, are found in their greatest extent
in the dry trade-wind belts, as in the deserts and steppes of Arabia, Persia, Sudan, the Sahara,
South Africa and Central Australia; and in vast continental interiors, where the winds arrive
robbed of their moisture in passing intervening highlands, as in the grasslands of our western
plains, the llanos and pampas of South America, and the steppes of Central Asia. But wherever
they occur, whether in Argentina or Russian Turkestan or the higher plains of Mongolia and
Tibet, they present the same general characteristics of land surface, climate, flora and fauna,
and the same nomadic populations of pastoral or hunting tribes. In them the movement of peoples
reaches its culminating point, permanent settlement its nil point. Here the hunting savage
makes the widest sweep in pursuit of buffalo or antelope, and pauses least to till a field;
here the pastoral nomad follows his systematic wandering in search of pasturage and his hardly
less systematic campaigns of conquest. It is the vast area and wide distribution of these arid
plains, combined with the mobility which they impose on native human life, that has lent them
historical importance, and reproduced in all sections of the world that significant homologous
relation of arid and well-watered districts.

[Sidenote: Pastoral life.]

The grasslands of the old world developed historical importance only after the domestication
of cattle, sheep, goats, asses, horses, camels and yaks. This step in progress resulted in
the evolution of peoples who renounced the precarious subsistence of the chase and escaped
the drudgery of agriculture, to devote themselves to pastoral life. It was possible only where
domesticable animals were present, and where the intelligence of the native or the peculiar
pressure exerted by environment suggested the change from a natural to an artificial basis
of subsistence. Australia lacked the type of animal. Though North America had the reindeer
and buffalo, and South America the guanaco, llama and alpaca, only the last two were domesticated
in the Andean highlands; but as these were restricted to altitudes from 10,000 to 14,000 feet,
where pasturage was limited, stock raising in primitive South America was merely an adjunct
to the sedentary agriculture of the high intermontane valleys, and never became the basis for
pastoral nomadism on the grassy plains. However, when the Spaniards introduced horses and cattle
into South America, the Indians and half-breeds of the llanos and pampas became regular pastoral
nomads, known as llaneros and gauchos. They are a race of horsemen, wielding javelin and lasso
and bola, living on meat, often on horse-flesh like the ancient Huns, dwelling in leather tents
made on a cane framework, like those of the modern Kirghis and medieval Tartars, dressed in
cloaks of horsehide sewn together, and raiding the Argentinian frontier of white settlement
for horses, sheep and cattle, with the true marauding instinct of all nomads.[1051]

[Sidenote: Pastoral nomads of Arctic plains.]

Aridity is not the only climatic condition condemning a people to nomadic life. Excessive cold,
producing the tundra wastes of the far north, has the same effect. Therefore, throughout Arctic
Eurasia, from the Lapp district of Norway to the Inland Chukches of eastern Siberia, we have
a succession of Hyperborean peoples pasturing their herds of reindeer over the moss and lichen
tundra, and supplementing their food supply with hunting and fishing. The reindeer Chukches
once confined themselves to their peninsula, so long as the grazing grounds were unexhausted;
but they now range as far west as Yakutsk on the Lena River, The Orochones of the Kolima River
district in eastern Siberia, who live chiefly by their reindeer, have small herds. A well-to-do
person will have 40 to 100 animals, and the wealthiest only 700, while the Chukches with herds
of 10,000 often seek the pasture of the Kolima tundra.[1052] Farther west, the Samoyedes of
northern Siberia and Russia and the Zirians of the Petchora River range with their large herds
northward to the Yalmal Peninsula and Vaygats Isle in summer, and southward in winter. [See
map pages 103, 225.] Here a herd of fifty head, which just suffices for the support of one
family of four souls, requires 10 square versts, or 4.44 square miles of tundra pasturage.[1053]
Hence population must forever remain too sparse ever to attain historical significance. [See
map page 8.] The Russian Lapps, too, lead a semi-nomadic life. Each group has a particular
summer and winter settlement. The winter village is located usually inland in the Kola Peninsula,
where the forests lend shelter to the herds, and the summer one near the tundra of the coast,
where fishing is accessible. In winter, like the nomads of the deserts, they add to their slender
income by the transport of goods by their reindeer and by service at the post stations.[1054]

[Sidenote: Historical importance of steppe nomads.]

These nomads of the frozen north, scattered sparsely over the remote periphery of the habitable
world, have lacked the historical importance which in all times has attached to the steppe
nomads, owing to their central location. The broad belt of deserts and grasslands which crosses
the old world diagonally between 10° and 60° North Latitude from the Atlantic in Africa to
the Pacific in Asia, either borders or encompasses the old domains of culture found in river
oases, alluvial lowlands or coastal plains of the Torrid and Temperate Zones. The restless,
mobile, unbound shepherds of the arid lands have never long been contained by the country which
bred them. They have constantly encroached upon the territory of their better placed neighbors,
invading, conquering, appropriating their fields and cities, disturbing but at the same time
acquiring their culture, lording it over the passive agriculturists, and at the same time putting
iron into their weaker blood. It is the geographical contact between arid steppes and moist
river valley, between land of poverty and land of plenty, that has made the history of the
two inseparable.[1055]

[Sidenote: Mobility of pastoral nomads.]

Every aspect of human life in the steppes bears the stamp of mobility. The nomad tolerates
no clog upon his movements. His dwelling is the tent of skin or felt as among Kalmucks and
Kirghis, or the tent wagon of the modern Boer[1056] and the ancient Scythian as described by
Herodotus.[1057] "This device has been contrived by them as the country is fit for it," he
says,--level, grassy, treeless. The temporary settlement of shepherd tribes is the group of
tents, or the ancient carrago camp of the nomadic Visigoths,[1058] or the laager of the pastoral
Boers, both a circular barricade or corral of wagons.

[Sidenote: Tendency to trek.]

Constant movement reduces the impedimenta to a minimum. The Orochones, a Tunguse nomadic tribe
of eastern Siberia, have no furniture in their tents, and keep their meager supply of clothing
and utensils neatly packed on sledges, as if to start at a moment's notice.[1059] The only
desirable form of capital is that which transports itself, namely, flocks and herds. Beyond
that, wealth is limited to strictly portable forms, preferably silver, gold and jewels. It
was in terms of these, besides their herds, that the riches of Abraham and Lot were rated in
the Bible. That the Israelites when traveling through the wilderness should have had the gold
to make the golden calf accords strictly with the verisimilitude of pastoral life.[1060] Moreover,
that these enslaved descendants of the Sheik Abraham, with their traditions of pastoral life,
should have simply trekked-ruptured the frail ties of recently acquired habit which bound them
to the Nile soil, is also in keeping with their inborn nomadic spirit. Similar instances occur
among modern peoples. The Great Trek of the South African Boers in 1836, by which they renounced
not only their unwelcome allegiance to England, but also their land,[1061] was another exodus
in accordance with the instinct of a pastoral people. They adopted no strange or difficult
course, but traveled with their families as they were wont in their every day life of cattle-tenders,
took all their chattels with them, and headed for the thin pastures of the far-reaching veldt.
The Russian government has had to contend with a like fluidity in her Cossack tribes of the
steppes, who have been up and off when imperial authority became oppressive. In the summer
of 1878 West Siberia lost about 9000 Kirghis, who left the province Semipalatinsk to seek Mongolia.

[Sidenote: Seasonal migrations.]

Environment determines the nomadic habits of the dweller of desert and steppe. The distribution
of pasture and water fixes the scope and the rate of his wandering; these in turn depend upon
geographic conditions and vary with the season. The Papago Indians of southern Arizona range
with their cattle over a territory 100 by 150 miles in extent, and wander across the border
into Mexico. When their main water supply, derived from wells or artificial reservoirs near
their summer villages, is exhausted, they migrate to the water-holes, springs or streams in
the cañons. There the cattle graze out on the plains and return to the cañons to drink.[1062]
Every Mongol tribe and clan has its seasonal migration. In winter the heavier precipitation
and fuller streams enable them to collect in considerable groups in protected valleys; but
the dry summer disperses them over the widest area possible, in order to utilize every water-hole
and grass spot. The hotter regions of the plains are abandoned in summer for highlands, where
the short period of warmth yields temporary pastures and where alone water can be found. The
Kirghis of Russian Turkestan resort in summer to the slopes and high valleys of the Altai Mountains,
where their auls or tent villages may be seen surrounded by big flocks of sheep, goats, camels,
horses and cattle.[1063] The Pamir in the warm months is the gathering place for the nomads
of Central Asia. The naked desert of Arabia yields a rare herbage during the rainy season,
when the Bedouin tribes resort to it for pasturage;[1064] but during the succeeding drought
they scatter to the hills of Yemen, Syria and Palestine,[1065] or migrate to the valley of
the Nile and Euphrates.[1066] The Arabs of the northern Sahara, followed by small flocks of
sheep and goats, vibrate between the summer pastures on the slopes of the Atlas Mountains and
the scant, wiry grass tufts found in winter on the borders of the desert.[1067] When the equatorial
rains begin in June, the Arabs of the Atbara River follow them north-westward into the Nubian
desert, and let their camel herds graze on the delicate grass which the moisture has conjured
up from the sandy soil. The country about Cassala, which is flooded during the monsoon rains
by the rivers from the Abyssinian Mountains, is reserved for the dry season.[1068] In the same
way the Tartar tribes of the Dnieper, Don, Volga and Ural Rivers in the thirteenth century
moved down these rivers in winter to the sea coast, and in summer up-stream to the hills and
mountains.[1069] So for the past hundred years the Boers of the South African grasslands have
migrated in their tent wagons from the higher to the lower pastures, according to the season
of the year, invading even the Karroo Desert after the short summer rains.[1070]

[Sidenote: Marauding expeditions.]

This systematic movement of nomads within their accepted boundaries leads, on slight provocation,
to excursions beyond their own frontiers into neighboring territories. The growing herd alone
necessitates the absorption of more land, more water-holes, because the grazed pastures renew
their grass slowly under the prevailing conditions of drought. An area sufficient for the support
of the tribe is inadequate for the sustenance of the herd, whose increase is a perennial expansive
force. Soon the pastures become filled with the feeding flocks, and then herdsmen and herds
spill over into other fields. Often a season of unusual drought, reducing the existing herbage
which is scarcely adequate at best, gives rise to those irregular, temporary expansions which
enlarge the geographical horizon of the horde, and eventuate in widespread conquest. Such incursions,
like the seasonal movements of nomads, result from the helpless dependence of shepherd tribes
upon variations of rainfall.

The nomad's basis of life is at best precarious. He and want are familiar friends. A pest among
his herds, diminished pasturage, failing wells, all bring him face to face with famine, and
drive him to robbery and pillage.[1071] Marauding tendencies are ingrained in all dwellers
of the deserts and steppes.[1072] Since the days of Job, the Bedouins of Arabia have been a
race of marauders; they have reduced robbery to a system. Predatory excursions figure conspicuously
in the history of all the tribes. Robber is a title of honor.[1073] Pliny said that the Arabs
were equally addicted to theft and trade. They pillaged caravans and held them for ransom,
or gave them safe conduct across the desert for a price. Formerly the Turkoman tribes of the
Trans-Caspian steppes levied on the bordering districts, notably the northern part of Khorasan,
which belonged more to the Turkomans, Yomut and Goklan tribes of the adjoining steppe than
to the resident Persians. The border districts of Herat, Khiva, Merv and Bukhara used to suffer
in the same way from the raids of the Tekkes, till the Russians checked the evil.[1074] The
Tekkes had depopulated whole districts, invaded Persian towns of considerable size, and carried
off countless families into slavery. Both Turkomans and Kirghis tribes prior to 1873 raided
caravans and carried off the travelers to the slave markets of Bukhara and Samarkand.[1075]
[See map page 103.]

Among these tribes no young man commanded respect in his community till he had participated
in a baranta or cattle-raising.[1076] For centuries the nomadic hordes of the Russian steppes
systematically pillaged the peaceful agricultural Slavs, who were threatening to encroach upon
their pasture lands. The sudden, swift descent and swift retreat of the mounted marauders with
the booty into the pathless grasslands, whither pursuit was dangerous, their tendency to rob
and conquer but never to colonize, involved Russia in a long struggle, which ceased only with
the extension of Muscovite dominion over the steppes.[1077]

[Sidenote: Depredation and conquests of African nomads.]

All the Saharan tribes are marauders, whether Arabs, Berber Tuaregs, or Negroid Tibbus. The
desert has made them so. The Tuaregs are chronic freebooters; they keep the Sahara and especially
the caravan routes in constant insecurity. They stretch a cordon across these routes from Ghadames
and Ghat in the east to the great oases of Insalah and Twat in the west; and from the oases
and hills forming their headquarters they spread for pasturage and blackmail over the desert.[1078]
They exact toll over and over again from a caravan, provide it with a military escort of their
own tribesmen, and then pillage it on the way.[1079] This has been the experience of Barth[1080]
and other explorers. Caravans have not been their only prey. The agricultural peoples in the
Niger flood-plain, the commerce on the river, and the markets of Timbuctoo long suffered from
the raids of the Tuaregs of the Sahara. They collected tribute in the form of grain, salt,
garments, horses and gold, typical needs of a desert people, imposed tolls on caravans and
on merchant fleets passing down the Niger to Timbuctoo. In 1770 they began to move from the
desert and appropriate the fertile plains in the northern part of the Niger Valley, and in
1800 they conquered Timbuctoo; but soon they had to yield to another tribe of pastoral nomads,
the Fulbes from the Senegal, who in 1813 established a short-lived but well organized empire
on the ruins of the Tuareg dominion.[1081] [See map page 105.] The other agricultural states
of the Sudan have had the same experience. The Tibbus, predatory nomads of the French Sahara
just north of Lake Chad and the River Yo, mounted on camels and ponies, cross the shrunken
river in the dry season and raid Bornu for cattle, carry off women and children to sell as
slaves, pillage the weekly markets on the Yo, and plunder caravans of pilgrims moving eastward
to Mecca.[1082] Nowhere can desert nomads and the civilized peoples of agricultural plains
dwell side by side in peace. Raids, encroachments, reprisals, finally conquest from one side
or the other is the formula for their history. [See map page 487.]

[Sidenote: Forms of defense against nomad depredations.]

The raided territory, if a modern civilized state, organizes its border communities into a
native mounted police, as the English have done in Bornu, Sokoto and the Egyptian Sudan, and
as the Russians did with their Cossack riders along the successive frontiers of Muscovite advance
into the steppes; or it takes into its employ, as we have seen, the nearest nomad tribes to
repress or punish every hostile movement beyond. Among the ancient states the method was generally
different. Since the nomad invaders came with their flocks and herds, a barrier often sufficed
to block their progress. For this purpose Sesostris built the long wall of 1500 stadia from
Pelusium to Heliopolis as a barricade against the Arabians.[1083] Ancient Carthage constructed
a ditch to check the depredations of the nomads of Numidia.[1084] The early kings of Assyria
built a barrier across the plains of the Euphrates above Babylon to secure their dominion from
the incursions of the desert Medes.[1085] In the fifth century of our era, the "Red Wall" was
constructed near the northern frontier of Persia as a bulwark against the Huns. It stretched
for a hundred and fifty miles from the Caspian Sea at the ancient port of Aboskun eastward
to the mountains, and thus enclosed the populous valley of the Gurgen River.[1086] In remote
ages the neck of the Crimean Peninsula was fortified by a wall against the irruptions of the
Tauro-Scythians.[1087] The Russians early in their national history used the same means of
defense against Tartar incursions. One wall was built from Pensa on the Sura River to Simbirsk
on the Volga, just south of Kazan; another, further strengthened by a foss and palisades, extended
from the fortress of Tsaritzin at the southern elbow of the Volga across the fifty-mile interval
to the Don, and was still defended in 1794 by the Cossacks of the Don against the neighboring
Kirghis hordes.[1088] The classic example of such fortifications against pastoral nomads, however,
is the Great Wall of China.

[Sidenote: Pastoral life as a training for soldiers.]

The nomad is economically a herdsman, politically a conqueror, and chronically a fighter. Strife
over pasturage and wells meets us in the typical history of Abraham, Lot and Isaac;[1089] it
exists within and without the clan. The necessity of guarding the pastures, which are only
intermittently occupied, involves a persistent military organization. The nation is a quiescent
army, the army a mobilized nation.[1090] It carries with it a self-transporting commissariat
in its flocks and herds. Constant practice in riding, scouting and the use of arms, physical
endurance tested by centuries of exertion and hardship, make every nomad a soldier. Cavalry
and camel corps add to the swiftness and vigor of their onslaught, make their military strategy
that of sudden attack and swifter retreat, to be met only by wariness and extreme mobility.
The ancient Scythians of the lower Danubian steppes were all horse archers, like the Parthians.
"If the Scythians were united, there is no nation which could compare with them or would be
capable of resisting them; I do not say in Europe, but even in Asia," said Thucydides.[1091]
In this opinion Herodotus concurred.[1092] The nomad's whole existence breeds courage. The
independent, hazardous life of the desert makes the Arab the bravest of mankind, but the settled,
agricultural Arab of Egypt and Mohammedan Spain lost most of his fighting qualities.[1093]

[Sidenote: Military organization of nomads.]

The daily life of a nomad horde is a training school for military organization. In the evening
the flocks and herds are distributed with system around the camp to prevent confusion. The
difficult art of a well ordered march, of making and breaking camp, and of foraging is practiced
almost daily in their constant migrations.[1094] The usual order of the Bedouin march could
scarcely be surpassed by an army. In advance of the caravan moves a body of armed horsemen,
five or seven kilometers ahead; then follows the main body of the tribesmen mounted on horses
and camels, then the female camels, and after these the beasts of burden with the women and
children. The encampment of tents with the places for men, arms and herds is also carefully
regulated. More than this, the horde is organized into companies with their superior and subordinate
leaders.[1095] John de Carpini describes Genghis Khan's military organization of his vast Tartar
horde by tens, hundreds and thousands, his absolute dominion over his conquered subjects, and
prompt absorption of them into his fighting force, by the compulsory enlistment of soldiers
out of every freshly subjugated nation.[1096] In the same way the Hebrew tribes, when preparing
for the conquest of Canaan, adopted from the desert Midianites the organization of the horde
into tens, hundreds and thousands under judges, who were also military leaders in time of war.

[Sidenote: Capacity for conquest and political consolidation.]

Thus certain geographic conditions produce directly the habitual and systematic migration of
the nomads, and through this indirectly that military and political organization which has
given the shepherd races of the earth their great historical mission of political consolidation.
Agriculture, though underlying all permanent advance in civilization, is handicapped by the
lack of courage, mobility, enterprise and large political outlook characterizing early tillers
of the soil. All these qualities the nomad possesses. Hence the union of these two elements,
imperious pastor superimposed upon peaceful tiller, has made the only stable governments among
savage and semi-civilized races.[1097] The politically invertebrate peoples of dark Africa
have secured the back-bone to erect states only from nomad conquerors. The history of the Sudan
cannot be understood apart from a knowledge of the Sahara and its peoples. All the Sudanese
states were formed by invaders from the northern desert, Hamitic or Semitic. [See map page
487.] The Galla or Wahuma herdsmen of East Africa founded and maintained the relatively stable
states of Uganda, Kittara, Karague, and Uzinza in the equatorial district; the conquerors remained
herders while they lorded it over the agricultural aborigines.[1098] In prehistoric times when
the various peoples of the Aryan linguistic family were spreading over Europe and southern
Asia, the superiority of the shepherd races must have been especially marked, because in that
era only the unobstructed surface of the steppes permitted the concentration of men on a vast
scale for migration and conquest. Everywhere else regions of broken relief and dense forests
harbored small, isolated peoples, to whom both the idea and the technique of combined movement
were foreign.

[Sidenote: Scope of nomad conquests.]

The rapidity and wide scope of such conquests is explained largely by the fact that nomads
try to displace only the ruling classes in the subjugated territory, leaving the mass of the
population practically undisturbed. Thus they spread themselves thin over a wide area. How
lasting are the results of such conquests depends upon the degree of social evolution attained
by the herdsmen. Genghis Khan and Tamerlane, after the manner of overlords, organized their
conquered nations, but left them under the control of local princes,[1099] while their tribute
gatherers annually swept the country like typical nomad marauders. The Turks are still only
encamped in Europe. They too make taxation despoliation. And though their dominion has produced
no assimilation between victor and vanquished, it has given political consolidation to a large
area occupied by varied peoples. The Hyksos conquest of Egypt found the Nile Valley divided
into several petty principalities under a nominal king. The nomad conquerors possessed political
capacity and gave to Egypt a strong, centralized government, which laid the basis for the power
and glory of the Eighteenth Dynasty. The Tartars in 1279 A.D. and the Manchus in 1664 conquered
China, extended its boundaries, governed the country as a ruling class, and left the established
order of things undisturbed. The Saracen conquest of North Africa and Spain showed for a time
organization and a permanence due to the advanced cultural status of the sedentary Arabs drawn
into the movement by religious enthusiasm. The environment of Spain tended to conserve the
knowledge of agriculture, industry, architecture, and science which they brought in and which
might have cemented Spaniard and Moor, had it not been for the intense religious antagonism
existing between the two races.

The history of nomad conquerors shows that they become weakened by the enervating climate and
the effeminating luxury of the moist and fertile lowlands. They lose eventually their warlike
spirit, like the Fellatah or Fulbe founders of the Sudanese states,[1100] and are either displaced
from their insecure thrones by other conquerors sprung from the same nomad-breeding steppe,
as the Aryan princes of India by the Mongol Emperor, and the Saracen invaders of Mesopotamia
by the victorious Turkomans; or they are expelled in time by their conquered subjects, as the
Tartars were from Russia, the Moors from Spain, and the Turks from the Danube Valley.

[Sidenote: Centralization versus decentralization in nomadism.]

Nomad hordes unite for concerted action to resist encroachment upon their pastures, or for
marauding expeditions, or for widespread conquest; but such unions are from their nature temporary,
though a career of conquest may be sustained for decades. The geographically determined mobility
which facilitates such concentration favors also dispersal, decentralization. This is the paradox
in nomadism. Geographic conditions in arid lands necessitate sparse distribution of population
and of herds. Pastoral life requires large spaces and small social groups. When Abraham and
Lot went to Canaan from Egypt, "the land was not able to bear them that they might dwell together,
for their substance was great." Strife for the pasturage ensued between their respective herdsmen,
so the two sheiks separated, Lot taking the plains of Jordan and Abraham the hill pastures
of Hebron. Jacob and Esau separated for the same reason. The encampment of the Kirghis shepherds
rarely averages over five or six tents, except on the best grazing grounds at the best season
of the year. The flow of spring, well or stream also helps to regulate their size. The groups
of Mongol yurts or felt tents along the piedmont margin of the Gobi vary from four tents to
a large encampment, according to water and grass.[1101] Prevalsky mentions a population of
70 families or 300 souls in the Lob Nor district distributed in 11 villages, or less than 28
in each group.[1102] Barth noticed the smallness of all the oasis towns of the Sahara, even
those occupying favorable locations for trade on the caravan routes.[1103]

[Sidenote: Spirit of independence among nomads.]

The nature-made necessity of scattering in small groups to seek pasturage induces in the nomad
a spirit of independence. The Bedouin is personally free. The power of the sheik is only nominal,[1104]
and depends much upon his personal qualities. The gift of eloquence among the ancient Arabs
has been attributed to the necessity of persuading a people to whom restraint was irksome.[1105]
Political organization is conspicuously lacking among the Tibbus of the Sahara[1106] and the
Turkoman tribes of the Trans-Caspian steppes. "We are a people without a head," they say. The
title of sheik is an empty one. Custom and usage are their rulers.[1107] Though the temporary
union of nomadic tribes forms an effective army, the union is short-lived. Groups form, dissolve
and re-form, with little inner cohesion. The Boers in South African grasslands showed the same
development. The government of the Dutch East India Company in Cape Colony found it difficult
to control the wandering cattlemen of the interior plateau. They loved independence and isolation;
their dissociative instincts, bred by the lonely life of the thin-pastured veldt, were overcome
only by the necessity of defense against the Bushmen. Then they organized themselves into commandos
and sallied out on punitive expeditions, like the Cossack tribes of the Don against marauding
Tartars. Scattered over wide tracts of pasture land, they were exempt from the control of either
Dutch or English authority; but when an energetic administration pursued them into their widespread
ranches, they eluded control by trekking.[1108] Here was the independent spirit of the steppe,
reinforced by the spirit of the frontier.

[Sidenote: Resistance to conquest.]

