(1) He speaks. "But the Spirit saith expressly, that in later times some shall fall away from
the faith" (1 Tim. 4:1). A speaker is a person; no influence or principle can speak.

(2) He testifies. (John 15: 26).

(3) He teaches and quickens the mind. (John 14:26).

(4) He guides.

(5) He leads and forbids. (Acts 16:6, 7).

(6) He searches.

In the above passages the Holy Spirit is said to speak, to testify, to quicken, to teach, to
guide disciples, to lead, to forbid and to search. All these things unite in showing the Holy
Spirit to be a person, for nothing but a person can do them.

2. HE HAS THE CHARACTERISTICS OF A PERSON.

We will mention a few of them:

(1) Mind. "And he that searcheth the hearts knoweth what is the mind of the Spirit" (Rom. 8:27).

(2) Knowledge.

(3) Affection. "Now I beseech you, brethren, by our Lord Jesus Christ, and by the love of the
Spirit, that ye strive together with me in your prayers to God for me" (Rom. 15:30).

(4) Will.

(5) Goodness. "Thou gavest also thy good Spirit to instruct them" (Neh. 9:20). Goodness, will,
affection, knowledge and mind are all characteristics of a person. By no stretch of the imagination
can they be ascribed to a mere impersonal influence or principle. These five characteristics
form the fingers in the hand of certainty by which we grasp the personality of the Holy Spirit.

3. HE SUFFERS SLIGHTS AND INJURIES THAT CAN ONLY BE ASCRIBED TO A PERSONALITY.

(1) He can be grieved and vexed. (Isa. 63:10).

(2) He can be despited. (Heb. 10:29).

(3) He can be blasphemed. (Matt. 12:31, 32).

(4) He can be resisted. (Acts 7:51).

(5) He can be lied unto. (Acts 5:3).

A mere principle can not sustain any of the above slights. Nothing but a personality can be
blasphemed, lied to, resisted or grieved.

4. HE IS A DIVINE PERSONALITY. This will be seen from the following attributes, which are the
attributes of God:

(1) Eternity. (Heb. 9:14). "Jehovah is great in Zion; And he is high above all the peoples"
(Ps. 99:2).

(2) Omniscience.

(3) Omnipotence. "But as for me, I am full of power by the Spirit of Jehovah, and of judgment,
and of might, to declare unto Jacob his transgression, and to Israel his sin" (Mic. 3:8).

(4) Omnipresence. "Whither shall I go from thy Spirit? Or whither shall I flee from thy presence?...
Even there shall thy hand lead me, And thy right hand shall hold me" (Ps. 139:7, 10). "Can
any hide himself in secret places so that I shall not see him? saith Jehovah. Do not I fill
heaven and earth? saith Jehovah" (Jer. 23:24).

5. THE WORKS OF THE HOLY SPIRIT MANIFEST DIVINITY.

(1) The work of creation. (Gen. 1:2). "By his Spirit the heavens are garnished; his hand hath
pierced the swift serpent" (Job 26:13). "By the word of Jehovah were the heavens made, And
all the host of them by the breath of his mouth" (Ps. 33:6). "The Spirit of God hath made me,
And the breath of the Almighty giveth me life" (Job 33:4).

(2) The work of providence. (Ps. 104:30).

(3) The work of regeneration and resurrection. (John 3:5). (Rom. 8:11).

(4) He is the source of the miraculous. (Matt. 12:28). "To another faith, in the same Spirit;
and to another gifts of healing, in the one Spirit; ... but all these worketh the one and the
same Spirit, dividing to each one severally even as he will" (1 Cor. 12:9, 11).

Thus in his works, his characteristics, the things he suffers, his attributes and his achievements,
we have a fivefold cord of testimony that clearly demonstrates the Spirit's personality and
divinity. (Luke 1:67, 68).

And the child John grew and "waxed strong in spirit, and was in the deserts till the day of
his showing unto Israel" (Luke 1:80). His private life was spent in the desert solitudes, where
he was being strengthened in spirit for the great work God had prepared for him. This work
had been foretold by the Holy Spirit. Again, Malachi (3:1) says: "Behold, I send my messenger,
and he shall prepare the way before me."

In fulfillment of these predictions of the Spirit came John the Baptist in the fifteenth year
of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, preaching the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins.
Great multitudes flocked to his preaching and baptism. "This is he of whom I said, After me
cometh a man who is become before me: for he was before me. And I knew him not; but that he
should be made manifest to Israel, for this cause came I baptizing in water. And John bare
witness, saying, I have beheld the Spirit descending as a dove out of heaven; and it abode
upon him. And I knew him not: but he that sent me to baptize in water, he said unto me, Upon
whomsoever thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and abiding upon him, the same is he that
baptizeth in the Holy Spirit. And I have seen, and have borne witness that this is the Son
of God" (John 1:30-34).

The next mention of the Holy Spirit by John the Baptist is in reference to the baptism in the
Holy Spirit and in fire. In order that the reader may have a clear understanding of this disputed
and difficult subject, I shall present the testimonies of the four Evangelists in parallel
columns [paragraphs]:

MATT. 3:10-12.

MARK 1:7, 8. I baptize you in water; but he shall baptize you in the Holy Spirit.

LUKE 3:9, 16, 17.

JOHN 1:33.

John is preaching to a mixed multitude composed of those who would accept his teaching and
baptism, and of those who would accept neither. Many the former would become disciples of Jesus
and receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit to qualify them to take up the work of the Master
and carry it on until the church would be established and the gospel fully revealed to men.
The baptism of the Spirit, a purely supernatural thing, was necessary to qualify them for this
work. Others would "reject for themselves the counsel of God, being not baptized of him." These
should at last "have their part in the lake that burneth with fire and brimstone." That such
a division was meant by John becomes evident if we examine the context carefully. In the above
parallel columns the reader will observe that Matthew and Luke use the expression "in the Holy
Spirit and in fire." They both use two illustrations to show what is meant by "in fire." One
of the illustrations immediately precedes and the other immediately follows the expression
"in the Holy Spirit and in fire," seemingly for the specific purpose of guarding against a
failure to understand the expression "in fire." The illustration that precedes in both instances
is: "Therefore every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the
fire." The illustration that follows in each instance is: "He will burn up the chaff in unquenchable
fire." With these forcible illustrations to guard the passage, can any one fail to understand
what is meant by the baptism in fire? The reader will also observe that neither Mark nor John
refers to the baptism in fire, and neither uses any illustration to explain it, because no
illustration is necessary. Where the baptism of fire is used there was always something destroyed
by fire. This interpretation harmonizes with the universal use of the word "fire" in the New
Testament. (1) In not a single instance is it used to denote a spiritual blessing conferred
upon the good. (2) In not a single instance does it refer to the work of the Holy Spirit in
purifying sinners. It is connected with judgments, punishments, fiery indignation, devouring
adversaries, consuming, and even with hell itself; but in no case does it refer to the power
of God in the scheme of redemption to convert and save men.

Neither does the baptism of the Holy Spirit refer to cleansing men from sin and saving them.
It was not given for that purpose. This is a foolish dream born out of the castaway doctrine
of the total depravity of man and his total disability to hear, believe and obey the truth.
Those who claim the baptism of the Holy Spirit to-day claim that it is the regenerating, converting,
purifying power of God. But the Bible does not so teach. In every instance in which the word
"purify" is found in the New Testament it is an act of personal volition--something a man must
do for himself. John 11:55: "Now the passover of the Jews was at hand: and many went up to
Jerusalem out of the country before the passover, to purify themselves."

Acts 21:26: "Then Paul took the men, and the next day purifying himself with them went into
the temple, declaring the fulfilment of the days of purification, until the offering was offered
for every one of them."

Jas.

1 Pet. 1:22: "Seeing ye have purified your souls in your obedience to the truth unto unfeigned
love of the brethren, love one another from the heart fervently."

1 John 3:3: "And every one that hath this hope set on him purifieth himself, even as he is pure."

"Men must cleanse themselves from wrong in thought, word and deed, and purify their souls in
obeying the truth. The Bible teaches that this is God's way of purifying sinners" (H.R. Pritchard,
"Addresses," p. 323).

From this chapter the reader will obtain the following Scripture facts:

1. The Holy Spirit rested on John the Baptist from his mother's womb.

2. The Holy Spirit filled his father Zacharias so that he prophesied.

3. The Holy Spirit bore witness to Jesus by descending and abiding upon him, enabling John
to identify him.

4. John promised a baptism in the Holy Spirit to some of his auditors and threatened others
with a baptism in fire.

1 Pet. 1:11, 12: "Searching what time or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was
in them did point unto, when it testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ, and the glories
that should follow them.

V

THE SPIRIT AND JESUS

The relation sustained by the Holy Spirit to Jesus Christ is a twofold one. First: He predicted
by the holy prophets the great facts in the life of the coming one. Second: He associated himself
with that one after he came.

1. THE TIME OF HIS COMING WAS CLEARLY FORETOLD. He was to come "in the last days," or in the
end of the Jewish Dispensation. (Isa. 2:2).

2. HE WAS TO COME WHILE THE SECOND TEMPLE WAS IN EXISTENCE. (Mal. 3:1).

3. THE PLACE OF HIS NATIVITY WAS A MATTER OF PROPHECY. (Mic. 5:2).

4. HIS LINEAGE WAS DECLARED IN THE JEWISH SCRIPTURES.

(1) He was to be a descendant of Abraham. "In thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed"
(Gen. 12:3). "For verily not of angels doth he take hold, but he taketh hold of the seed of
Abraham" (Heb. 2:16).

(2) He was to be of the tribe of Judah. "For it is evident that our Lord hath sprung out of
Judah; as to which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priests" (Heb. 7:14).

(3) He was to be of the house of David. "And it shall come to pass in that day, that the root
of Jesse, which standeth for an ensign of the peoples, unto him shall the nations seek; and
his resting-place shall be glorious" (Isa. 11:10).

5. HIS CHARACTER WAS MINUTELY DESCRIBED BY THE PROPHETS.

(1) His wisdom. (Isa. 11:2).

(2) His obedience. "For I am come down from heaven, not to do mine own will, but the will of
him that sent me" (John 6:38).

(3) His love of righteousness. (Ps. 45:7).

(4) His gentleness and tenderness. (Isa. 42:2, 3).

(5) His compassion. (Isa. 61:1).

6. HIS BETRAYAL AND TRIAL. As we approach the closing scenes of Christ's life the prophecies
become more minute and remarkable.

(1) The betrayal. "And I said unto them, If ye think good, give me my hire; and if not, forbear.
So they weighed for my hire thirty pieces of silver. And Jehovah said unto me, Cast it unto
the potter, the goodly price that I was prized at by them. And I took the thirty pieces of
silver, and cast them unto the potter, in the house of Jehovah" (Zech. 11:12, 13).

(2) His demeanor when on trial. (Isa. 53:7).

(3) When crucified, the soldiers were to part his garments among them and cast lots for his
vesture. "They part my garments among them, And upon my vesture do they cast lots" (Ps. 22:18).

(4) He was to be numbered with the transgressors. (Isa. 53:12).

(5) He was to perish amid cruel mockings. All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot
out the lip, they shake the head, saying, Commit thyself unto Jehovah; let him deliver him:
let him rescue him, seeing he delighted in him" (Ps. 22:6-8).

7. HIS RESURRECTION AND CORONATION.

(1) He was to rise from the dead. (Ps. 16:10).

(2) His ascension was also a subject of prophecy. "Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led
away captives; thou hast received gifts among men, yea, among the rebellious also, that Jehovah
God might dwell with them" (Ps. 68:18).

(3) His coronation is foretold and described. (Dan. 7:13, 14).

The above are only a few of the many predictions made by the Holy Spirit as to the character,
life, sacrifice and dominion of our Lord. We notice now the work of the Spirit in, upon and
through him.

1. HE WAS CONCEIVED BY THE HOLY SPIRIT. (Matt. 1: 18). (Luke 1:35).

2. HE WAS ANOINTED BY THE HOLY SPIRIT. (Matt. 3:16, 17). And straightway coming up out of the
water, he saw the heavens rent asunder, and the Spirit as a dove descending upon him: and a
voice came out of the heavens, Thou art my beloved Son, in thee I am well pleased"

3. HE WAS LED BY THE HOLY SPIRIT. (Matt. 4:1). "And straightway the Spirit driveth him forth
into the wilderness" (Mark 1:12). (Luke 4:1).

4. HE WROUGHT MIRACLES BY THE HOLY SPIRIT. (Matt. 12:28). (Luke 11:20).

5. HE OFFERED HIMSELF UP THROUGH THE HOLY SPIRIT. (Heb. 9:14).

6. HE WAS RAISED BY THE HOLY SPIRIT. (Rom. 8:11). (Rom. 1:4).

7. HE GAVE THE COMMISSION BY THE HOLY SPIRIT. (Acts 1:1, 2).

8. HIS ASCENSION AND CORONATION WERE ANNOUNCED BY THE HOLY SPIRIT. (Acts 2:33). (Acts 2:36).

Thus the Spirit predicted the coming of Jesus and the great facts of his birth, baptism, anointing,
miracles, death, burial and resurrection, ascension and coronation, and then came from the
Father to carry on the work of extending his kingdom. In the light of this testimony we can
truly say with Paul in 2 Cor. 12:3: "Wherefore I make known unto you, that no man speaking
in the Spirit of God saith, Jesus is anathema: and no man can say, Jesus is Lord, but in the
Holy Spirit." (John 17:6-8, 12, 14, 15).

VI

THE SPIRIT AND THE APOSTLES

In interpreting Scripture, attention should be paid not only to the speaker and his message,
but also to the parties addressed. There are passages that are universal in their application,
others that are national, and still others that are addressed to individuals only. Many promises
are addressed to children of God only, and do not apply to those who are not citizens of Christ's
kingdom. Again, there are commands that are addressed solely to men in a state of condemnation,
and have no relevancy when applied to the children of God. Christ uttered many things to his
chosen ambassadors, chosen to establish his kingdom on earth, which were never intended to
be applied to any others. It is a mistake for the Christian of to-day to make universal, promises
that were intended by our Lord for special individuals. It confuses the whole scheme of redemption
and makes a mystery out of Scriptures that are perfectly clear when proper limitations are
made. Things addressed to a chosen few have been wrongly applied to all and great confusion
has resulted therefrom. It is my purpose in this chapter to notice some of these.

The fourteenth, fifteenth and sixteenth chapters of John contain a record of a private talk
by our Lord to the twelve, and to them alone. Jesus was approaching the close of his earthly
ministry. He had chosen his apostles, and they had left all to follow him. He had eaten, slept
and companied with them. He had taught them the great truths upon which his kingdom would be
founded. They had learned to depend upon him for advice, instruction, comfort and guidance.
They confessed this when they said, "Thou hast the words of eternal life."

He was soon to leave them, and knew that they would feel that they were "as sheep without a
shepherd." He wishes them to know that they should not be left orphaned. He tells them, "I
will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter that he may abide with you for
ever," or to the remotest age. That is, as long as you shall have need of him. The Greek word
translated "for ever" does not necessarily mean unlimited duration. It is often applied to
much shorter periods, even to a lifetime.

The word "Comforter" is a translation from the Greek word Paracletos, and it is a very inadequate
translation. There is no word within my knowledge that will fully express in English the Greek
word. It is much better to Anglicize the word into the English "Paraclete." This word is used
of the Holy Spirit only four times in the New Testament, and is only used by the Saviour in
his private address to the twelve, found in the fourteenth, fifteenth and sixteenth chapters
of John. It is never applied to the work of the Holy Spirit in relation to mankind in general.
It is promised only to the chosen, and Jesus tells them that the world can not receive "him."

This Paraclete is a distinct gift to the twelve, to take the place of the personal presence
and guidance of the leader who is preparing to leave them.

What is the nature of this promised one? By examining the lexicons we find that Paraclete is:

1. One called or sent to assist another.

2. One who pleads the cause of another.

3. A monitor.

4. An instructor.

5. A guide.

6. A helper.

7. A supporter.

8. A comforter.

Of this Paraclete Jesus says:

1. Whom the world can not receive.

2. He dwelleth with you and shall be in you.

3. He shall teach you all things.

4. He shall bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I have spoken unto you.

5. He shall testify of me.

6. He shall convict the world of sin.

7. He shall convict the world of righteousness.

8. He shall convict the world of judgment.

9. He shall guide you into all truth.

10. He shall show you things to come.

11. He shall receive of mine and show it unto you.

Here we have eleven distinct things that the Paraclete is to do for the apostles.

All these offices of the Paraclete were needed by the apostles in their work of proclaiming
Christianity and establishing the church. They were ignorant and unlearned, humanly speaking,
and could never have gone forth to success without this supernatural Paraclete. They took no
thought what they should say, for it was given them at the proper time. Others have to take
thought. Timothy had to study because he did not possess the Paraclete. Yet Timothy did possess
the gift of the Spirit. (2 Tim. 1:6).

Men to-day are required to study that they may know what to say. A failure to observe this
exhortation of the apostle is the reason why a great many do not know what to say. The Paraclete
was not only an instructor, but he was an infallible guide. This is evident from the fact that
no apostle ever contradicted another nor said anything foolish. I never heard a man of to-day
lay claim to being guided "into all truth by the Spirit," who did not say something foolish
in the next five minutes. If any man claims the direct guidance of the Spirit to-day, he can
not consistently deny that same claim to others. But we have all sorts of men teaching all
sorts of doctrines, often contradicting each other. Does the Spirit guide one man to preach
up Universalism and another man to preach it down! The same is true of Calvinism, Mormonism
or any other ism.

This teaching places the Spirit in a very unenviable position, that of preaching four or five
different teachings at the same time, each within a half-mile of the other. Suppose a preacher
were to do that! What would the people think of him? It would ruin the reputation of any preacher
in Christendom. There is something wrong, and that something is to apply to the world the promise
of the Paraclete, which was only given to the apostles. Was that not an impertinence in Paul
if Timothy had the same divine leading as he? Was it not impertinence in Jude to say that the
faith was "once for all delivered to the saints," if there were deliverances being constantly
made? What need to preach the gospel to the heathen world if God is directly leading men into
the truth? What need for a New Testament if all men possess this Paraclete? How can one man
deny the claims of another whom he admits to be divinely guided into all truth?

Some have thought that Christ bestowed the Paraclete upon the apostles when he breathed upon
them and said: "Receive ye the Holy Spirit." At best that was a prophetic and not an actual
bestowal, for after that onbreathing we find Peter (Acts I) calling upon the assembly of brethren
to take a vote as to who should succeed Judas in the apostolic college. If he had possessed
the Paraclete at that time, he would not have been compelled to resort to the judgment of his
brethren to determine such a question. Moreover, Christ indicated when the Paraclete would
come, by stating the work that would follow his coming: "When he is come he shall convict the
world [age] of sin, of righteousness and of judgment." How did he do this?

1. His first act at his coming was to baptize the apostles in the Spirit and endow them with
the Paraclete. "Ye shall be baptized in the Holy Spirit not many days hence" (Acts 1:5).

2. When the Spirit baptized these apostles with divine guidance he began his work of convicting
the world through them.

(1) To convict the world of sin. Not of sin in general. It is a mistaken idea that the Spirit
is sent to personally convict a man of the sin of lying, stealing or defrauding his neighbor.
When I was a boy in old Kentucky the colored people used to hold great revivals; they generally
selected corn-planting-time or harvest-time for these meetings. Many of them would lie for
days in a cataleptic condition, which, they said, was a "conviction of the Spirit." A man would
go groaning and moping to his task because he was "under conviction of the Holy Ghost." The
above passage teaches nothing of the kind, nor does any other passage in the New Testament
teach it. There is not a case in the New Testament where the Holy Spirit ever made an issue
with a man to personally convict him of sin. All men are convicted of sin by the Spirit, but
it is the Spirit working through the preaching of Spirit-filled men. "And he, when he is come,
will convict the world [the Jewish world or age] in respect of sin, because they believe not
on me." They called him a blasphemer, they rejected him, they took him with wicked hands and
crucified and slew him; and the first thrust of the Spirit on the day of Pentecost was at this
sinful act of the world: "This same Jesus whom ye took with wicked hands and crucified and
slew, God hath raised him up and made him both Lord and Christ."

(2) "Of righteousness, because I go to the Father, and ye behold me no more." If this passage
teaches that men are individually convicted of sin, it also teaches that they are individually
convicted of righteousness, and this would be a most herculean task, even for the Spirit, to
perform. It is a contradiction of terms to say that the Spirit convicts a man of sin, then,
in the next breath, that he convicts the same man of righteousness. And yet, the Spirit was
to convict men "of righteousness"; but whose righteousness? The righteousness of Jesus Christ.
"Of righteousness, because I go to the Father, and ye behold me no more." When Jesus was on
earth he claimed to be the Son of God; he claimed to come down from heaven; he claimed to be
God manifest in the flesh; but, at the same time, he was a "man of sorrows and acquainted with
grief." "There was no beauty that we should desire him." On this account the Jews refused to
accept him as the Son of God; they denied his claim to divinity and called him a blasphemer
for making himself equal with God; they believed that he was unrighteous in making that claim,
and Jesus died because his claims were not accepted by his people; but after his death he was
crowned with glory and honor at the right hand of the Majesty on high, and the Spirit came
to demonstrate the righteous claims Jesus made while on earth. The Spirit came to convict men
of the righteousness of Christ, and not their own righteousness. A simple illustration will
probably throw light upon this thought. Forty years ago my father lived in a little village
in the State of Illinois, midway between St. Louis and Indianapolis. One afternoon two young
lads, covered with dust and toilworn, came to his house and told him they were sons of an elder
of a Christian Church in Indiana; that they had been robbed in St. Louis, and were making their
way home on foot; they asked for something to eat. My father doubted their claims; he felt
that they were impostors; but my mother, who had boys of her own out in the world, and who
always believed the best of everybody, said: "We will feed them and care for them during the
night." Their wants were supplied, and they were given lodging for the night, and sent on their
way the next morning with a good lunch for the day. Six months afterward, I preached in Monroe
County, Indiana, and, stopping with one of the elders of the church, two young lads were introduced
to me as his boys. They asked me if my father lived in Illinois. I told them he did. They then
recounted their experience at my father's home, and said to me: "We would be glad when you
return home if you will tell your father that you stopped at our house, and that you know we
were what we claimed to be when we sought his aid." When I returned to my father's home I convicted
him of the righteousness of those boys in the claim which they set forth, and which he had
hitherto doubted. In a similar manner the Spirit of God came down to convict the world, that
had rejected the claims of Jesus, of his righteousness in making those claims.

(3) He will convict the world of judgment, because the "prince of this world is judged." This
passage does not say, as many preachers quote it, "of judgment to come," but "of judgment,
because the prince of this world is judged." This Scripture is often quoted to show that a
judgment was pronounced upon Satan, who is often called the prince of this world. The word
for prince in the original is used thirty-seven times--thirty-two times it clearly means an
earthly ruler, and five times it may apply to Satan. There is no reason why the expression,
"the prince of this world," may not mean an earthly ruler. It evidently refers to Pontius Pilate,
in John 14:30, when Jesus says: "The prince of this world cometh, and he hath nothing in me."
Pilate justifies that statement when he says: "I find no fault in this man." Nevertheless,
as prince of this world, he pronounced the death-sentence and delivered him up to be crucified.
This was the judgment of the prince of this world, but the descent of the Holy Spirit on the
day of Pentecost reversed this judgment and pronounced a righteous judgment in its place, thus
judging Pilate "the prince of this world." The above three things were accomplished on the
day of Pentecost by the coming of the Spirit. The Jews were convicted of sin in rejecting and
crucifying Christ; they were also convicted of the righteousness of Christ in claiming to be
the Son of God, and likewise convinced that God had raised up Jesus and made him both Lord
and Christ. In accomplishing this work the Spirit did it through the instrumentality of gospel
preaching, and all subsequent convictions of sin, of righteousness and of judgment have been
accomplished through the same agency, and will be till the end of time.

This Paraclete continued with the apostles till the end of their ministry, guiding, leading,
and showing them "things to come," bringing all things to their remembrance that Christ had
spoken unto them. Under this direct and supernatural control they preached the gospel to all
the nations of the earth, and established the church with all its officers, ordinances, privileges
and duties. They wrote the epistles to the churches and gave to mankind the New Testament,
"the perfect law of liberty." The work of the Paraclete being finished, and his mission ended,
no man has been guided, shown and directed personally by him since. God does no unnecessary
work, and the work of the Paraclete is not necessary now. His work remains in the teachings
and lives of the apostles. There are many things in the above-mentioned chapters that rightfully
have a universal application, but the special promises concerning the Paraclete are not included
in those things. (Eph. 4:8, 11-13).

VII

THE SPIRIT AND THE APOSTOLIC CHURCH

That the Holy Spirit sustained a relation to the apostolic church that it does not sustain
to the church of to-day is clearly evident to the student of the Divine Word. The church of
the apostolic age had no New Testament as we have to-day. Hence the necessity of a more direct
and immediate leading than is necessary to-day. The apostle Paul states the difference between
the two when he says: "For we know in part, and we prophesy in part; but when that which is
perfect is come, that which is in part shall be done away." This is not a contrast between
the imperfections of our day and the perfection of heaven, but between the imperfection of
the apostolic church and the perfection of the church of to-day. That which is perfect has
come; a perfect revelation of Christian character, a perfect gospel, a perfect "law of liberty,"
a perfect New Testament. The apostolic church was limited to knowing in part and prophesying
in part. "But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit to profit withal. (1 Cor.
12:7-11).

Now, here was manifestly a condition in the first churches that does not exist to-day. Here
are various direct and supernatural workings that are manifestations of spiritual power resulting
from a direct gift of the Spirit to members of apostolic churches. Now, there was a purpose
to be accomplished by this special gift of the Spirit. In the fourth chapter of Ephesians the
apostle tells us the purpose of this gift. This gift of the Spirit accompanied the baptism
of the Spirit on the day of Pentecost.

This brings us to a very-interesting question; viz., Was the promise of the "gift of the Holy
Spirit," referred to by Peter on the day of Pentecost, a universal one to all who obey the
gospel, or was it limited to those of the apostolic church who received it that they might
manifest it in a supernatural way "to profit withal," or to the profit of all?

There are some who claim that "the gift of the Spirit" is one that belongs to all who obey
the gospel to-day, that it is independent of the instrumentality of the gospel, and is the
peculiar heritage of those who repent and are baptized for the remission of sins; that it performs
a work in them other than is performed by the Spirit operating through the truth. There are
others who claim that the "gift of the Spirit" was a supernatural power and was conferred on
persons to qualify them to do a work or works peculiar to the age of miracles which obtained
in the apostolic church. The only way to settle this is by appealing to (1) the consciousness
of individuals, (2) to the Divine Word.

Before appealing to either of these tribunals, there are a few facts that we must consider.
(1) This is the only passage in the New Testament that connects "the gift of the Spirit" with
obedience to the gospel in the preaching of the apostles. We have remission of sins so connected
on various occasions (see Acts 5:31; 10:43; 13:38; 26:18, etc., etc.), but nowhere else is
this "gift of the Spirit" promised. If it is to be as universal as "remission of sins," ought
it not to have the same prominence in apostolic preaching? This is an important factor in settling
the matter. (2) In the only instance in which it is promised it is inexorably connected with
baptism for the remission of sins. It is promised to no others, and all others are ruled out
by the explicit terms of the promise.

With these facts before us, let us now appeal to the consciousness of the individual. If we
consider numbers, it is safe to say that ninety-five per cent. of those who to-day claim "the
gift of the Spirit" have never been baptized for the remission of sins. They have never performed
the conditions upon which the gift was bestowed. Are they competent to testify? Of the remaining
five per cent., there is not one who can give any definite reason why he is conscious of the
personal indwelling of the Spirit within him. To demonstrate my statement I appeal to the consciousness
of my readers. Are you conscious of any influence within you except a holy joy that comes from
obedience to the will of God? If you are not, what evidence have you that the Spirit personally
dwells in you? So much for the argument from consciousness.

Now let us appeal to the Divine Word. When the apostle Peter promised "the gift of the Spirit,"
he followed it with the words, "For the promise is to you and to your children, and to all
them that are afar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call." He distinctly states
that the gift of the Spirit is in fulfillment of "the promise." Now, is there in the Scripture
any promise of a personal indwelling of the Holy Spirit as a result of obedience? Let us search
the words of the Master. This passage may be disposed of by saying that in the original it
is a holy spirit and does not refer to the Holy Spirit at all. It represents God's willingness
to give a holy disposition. Matthew explains it in the words "good gifts to them that ask him."
In John 7:38, 39 we have recorded another promise: "He that believeth on me, as the scripture
hath said, from within him shall flow rivers of living water. But this spake he of the Spirit,
which they that believed on him were to receive: for the Spirit was not yet given; because
Jesus was not yet glorified." This is evidently a supernatural gift, as he represents the recipient
of it as a fountain from which flows rivers of living water. This is obviously not true of
us to-day. Our Saviour also dates the bestowal as following his glorification, or on the day
of Pentecost. These five things that accompanied the believers are all supernatural. Of the
three promises of Jesus--which are all that are recorded in the New Testament--only two refer
to the Holy Spirit, and both of these to its supernatural manifestation. (Joel 2:28, 29). This
promise is the one quoted by Peter to explain the manifestations on the day of Pentecost to
the people drawn together by that wonderful event. From it he delivers by the Spirit a sermon
on the claims of our Lord. He shows that they had taken the Lord by wicked hands and had crucified
and slain him; that God had raised him from the dead and had exalted him to his right hand;
had given him the promise of the Holy Spirit; that what they saw and heard was the fulfillment
of Joel's promise. This promise was not simply to the apostles, for we read in the preceding
chapter that the apostles, and the women and Mary the mother of Jesus, and his brethren to
the number of one hundred and twenty all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication.
"And when the day of Pentecost was now come, they were all together in one place. This shows
that the gift of the Spirit came upon all the followers Jesus left behind him. When the multitude
were convicted by the apostle's discourse, they "said unto Peter and the rest of the apostles,
Brethren, what shall we do? What promise! Evidently the promise of God, "I will pour out of
my spirit upon all flesh." There is no other promise in the mind of Peter and his hearers,
and I know of no other promise the reader can have in mind. This position is amply supported
by after-developments. For they heard them speak with tongues, and magnify God. Then answered
Peter, Can any man forbid the water, that these should not be baptized, who have received the
Holy Spirit as well as we?" (Acts 10:44-47). This was in fulfillment of the promise not only
to the Jews, but the Gentiles, whom the Jews regarded as "far off." In this incident "the gift
of the Holy Spirit" and "receiving the Spirit" are the same. And when Peter was taken to task
for baptizing the Gentiles, he defends himself on the ground that God, who knows the heart,
bore witness to them, giving them the Holy Spirit, "the like gift as he did also unto us."
In the above instances, Pentecost and the house of Cornelius, the gift of the Spirit was the
result of the baptism of the Spirit, the baptism of the Spirit was an outpouring or falling
of the Spirit upon the Jews at Pentecost and the Gentiles at the house of Cornelius, to signify
his acceptance of both Jew and Gentile into the kingdom of Christ. Paul undoubtedly refers
to this when he says: "For in one Spirit were we all baptized into one body, whether Jews or
Greeks" (1 Cor. 12:13). The baptism of the Spirit ceased when its object--the making of one
body out of Jews and Gentiles--was accomplished, but "the gift of the Spirit" did not cease.
It was conferred by the laying on of the hands of the apostles through all their lives. A few
illustrations may be mentioned from the Scriptures.

The Samaritans. When a bloody persecution arose at Jerusalem, following the death of Stephen,
the disciples were scattered and went everywhere preaching the Word. Philip went to the city
of Samaria and preached Christ to them. (Acts 8:12). "For as yet the Holy Spirit was fallen
upon none of them: only they had been baptized into the name of the Lord Jesus" (Acts 8:16).
If the gift of the Spirit is to all baptized believers, why did not the Samaritans receive
it? Philip was not an apostle and did not have the power to confer "the gift of the Spirit"
by the imposition of hands, and, in order that they might receive this "gift," it was necessary
that two apostles, Peter and John, should go to Samaria and lay hands on them, that they might
receive the Spirit. Here is a clear case of baptized believers receiving the Holy Spirit by
the imposition of hands.

Disciples at Ephesus. In Acts 19 Paul met certain disciples that had received the baptism of
John. He showed them that John did not preach a full gospel, which embraced a belief in Christ.
This is another clear case of the Spirit being given by the imposition of hands.

Timothy. In 2 Tim. This is a third instance of the gift of the Spirit by the imposition of
hands, and they form just three more instances than can be found of the Spirit taking his personal
"abode in men because they have believed and been baptized."

