Nevertheless, our situation was no less terrible.  Perhaps our disappearance had not been noticed;
and, if it had been, the frigate could not tack, being without its helm.  Conseil argued on
this supposition, and laid his plans accordingly.  This quiet boy was perfectly self-possessed.
We then decided that, as our only chance of safety was being picked up by the Abraham Lincoln's
boats, we ought to manage so as to wait for them as long as possible.  I resolved then to husband
our strength, so that both should not be exhausted at the same time; and this is how we managed:
while one of us lay on our back, quite still, with arms crossed, and legs stretched out, the
other would swim and push the other on in front.  This towing business did not last more than
ten minutes each; and relieving each other thus, we could swim on for some hours, perhaps till
day-break. Poor chance! but hope is so firmly rooted in the heart of man!  Moreover, there
were two of us.  Indeed I declare (though it may seem improbable) if I sought to destroy all
hope--if I wished to despair, I could not.

The collision of the frigate with the cetacean had occurred about eleven o'clock in the evening
before.  I reckoned then we should have eight hours to swim before sunrise, an operation quite
practicable if we relieved each other.  The sea, very calm, was in our favour. Sometimes I
tried to pierce the intense darkness that was only dispelled by the phosphorescence caused
by our movements.  I watched the luminous waves that broke over my hand, whose mirror-like
surface was spotted with silvery rings.  One might have said that we were in a bath of quicksilver.

Near one o'clock in the morning, I was seized with dreadful fatigue. My limbs stiffened under
the strain of violent cramp.  Conseil was obliged to keep me up, and our preservation devolved
on him alone.  I heard the poor boy pant; his breathing became short and hurried.  I found
that he could not keep up much longer.

"Leave me! leave me!"  I said to him.

"Leave my master?  Never!" replied he.  "I would drown first."

Just then the moon appeared through the fringes of a thick cloud that the wind was driving
to the east.  The surface of the sea glittered with its rays.  This kindly light reanimated
us.  My head got better again.  I looked at all points of the horizon.  I saw the frigate!
She was five miles from us, and looked like a dark mass, hardly discernible.  But no boats!

I would have cried out.  But what good would it have been at such a distance!  My swollen lips
could utter no sounds.  Conseil could articulate some words, and I heard him repeat at intervals,
"Help! help!"

Our movements were suspended for an instant; we listened.  It might be only a singing in the
ear, but it seemed to me as if a cry answered the cry from Conseil.

"Did you hear?"  I murmured.

"Yes!  Yes!"

And Conseil gave one more despairing cry.

This time there was no mistake!  A human voice responded to ours!  Was it the voice of another
unfortunate creature, abandoned in the middle of the ocean, some other victim of the shock
sustained by the vessel? Or rather was it a boat from the frigate, that was hailing us in the
darkness?

Conseil made a last effort, and, leaning on my shoulder, while I struck out in a desperate
effort, he raised himself half out of the water, then fell back exhausted.

"What did you see?"

"I saw----" murmured he; "I saw--but do not talk--reserve all your strength!"

What had he seen?  Then, I know not why, the thought of the monster came into my head for the
first time!  But that voice!  The time is past for Jonahs to take refuge in whales' bellies!
However, Conseil was towing me again.  He raised his head sometimes, looked before us, and
uttered a cry of recognition, which was responded to by a voice that came nearer and nearer.
I scarcely heard it.  My strength was exhausted; my fingers stiffened; my hand afforded me
support no longer; my mouth, convulsively opening, filled with salt water.  Cold crept over
me.  I raised my head for the last time, then I sank.

At this moment a hard body struck me.  I clung to it: then I felt that I was being drawn up,
that I was brought to the surface of the water, that my chest collapsed--I fainted.

It is certain that I soon came to, thanks to the vigorous rubbings that I received.  I half
opened my eyes.

"Conseil!"  I murmured.

"Does master call me?" asked Conseil.

Just then, by the waning light of the moon which was sinking down to the horizon, I saw a face
which was not Conseil's and which I immediately recognised.

"Ned!"  I cried.

"The same, sir, who is seeking his prize!" replied the Canadian.

"Were you thrown into the sea by the shock to the frigate?"

"Yes, Professor; but more fortunate than you, I was able to find a footing almost directly
upon a floating island."

"An island?"

"Or, more correctly speaking, on our gigantic narwhal."

"Explain yourself, Ned!"

"Only I soon found out why my harpoon had not entered its skin and was blunted."

"Why, Ned, why?"

"Because, Professor, that beast is made of sheet iron."

The Canadian's last words produced a sudden revolution in my brain.  I wriggled myself quickly
to the top of the being, or object, half out of the water, which served us for a refuge.  I
kicked it.  It was evidently a hard, impenetrable body, and not the soft substance that forms
the bodies of the great marine mammalia.  But this hard body might be a bony covering, like
that of the antediluvian animals; and I should be free to class this monster among amphibious
reptiles, such as tortoises or alligators.

Well, no! the blackish back that supported me was smooth, polished, without scales.  The blow
produced a metallic sound; and, incredible though it may be, it seemed, I might say, as if
it was made of riveted plates.

There was no doubt about it!  This monster, this natural phenomenon that had puzzled the learned
world, and over thrown and misled the imagination of seamen of both hemispheres, it must be
owned was a still more astonishing phenomenon, inasmuch as it was a simply human construction.

We had no time to lose, however.  We were lying upon the back of a sort of submarine boat,
which appeared (as far as I could judge) like a huge fish of steel.  Ned Land's mind was made
up on this point.  Conseil and I could only agree with him.

Just then a bubbling began at the back of this strange thing (which was evidently propelled
by a screw), and it began to move.  We had only just time to seize hold of the upper part,
which rose about seven feet out of the water, and happily its speed was not great.

"As long as it sails horizontally," muttered Ned Land, "I do not mind; but, if it takes a fancy
to dive, I would not give two straws for my life."

The Canadian might have said still less.  It became really necessary to communicate with the
beings, whatever they were, shut up inside the machine.  I searched all over the outside for
an aperture, a panel, or a manhole, to use a technical expression; but the lines of the iron
rivets, solidly driven into the joints of the iron plates, were clear and uniform.  Besides,
the moon disappeared then, and left us in total darkness.

At last this long night passed.  My indistinct remembrance prevents my describing all the impressions
it made.  I can only recall one circumstance.  During some lulls of the wind and sea, I fancied
I heard several times vague sounds, a sort of fugitive harmony produced by words of command.
What was, then, the mystery of this submarine craft, of which the whole world vainly sought
an explanation?  What kind of beings existed in this strange boat?  What mechanical agent caused
its prodigious speed?

