On efficient drilling and discipline, men's success as individuals, and as societies entirely
depends. The most self-dependent man is under discipline,--and the more perfect the discipline,
the more complete his condition. A man must drill his desires, and keep them under subjection,--he
must obey the word of command, otherwise he is the sport of passion and impulse. The religions
man's life is full of discipline and self-restraint. The man of business is entirely subject
to system and rule. The happiest home is that where the discipline is the most perfect, and
yet where it is the least felt. We at length become subject to it as to a law of Nature, and
while it binds us firmly, yet we feel it not. The force of Habit is but the force of Drill.

One dare scarcely hint, in these days, at the necessity for compulsory conscription; and yet,
were the people at large compelled to pass through the discipline of the army, the country
would be stronger, the people would be soberer, and thrift would become much more habitual
than it is at present.

Military savings banks were first suggested by Paymaster Fairfowl in 1816; and about ten years
later the question was again raised by Colonel Oglander, of the 26th Foot (Cameronians). The
subject was brought under the notice of the late Duke of Wellington, and negatived; the Duke
making the following memorandum on the subject: "There is nothing that I know of to prevent
a soldier, equally with others of His Majesty's subjects, from investing his money in savings
banks. If there be any impediment, it should be taken away; but I doubt the expediency of going
further."

The idea, however, seems to have occurred to the Duke, that the proposal to facilitate the
saving of money by private soldiers might be turned to account in the way of a reduction in
the army expenditure, and he characteristically added: "Has a soldier more pay than he requires? Many
flowers like the shooting star, cyclamen, and nightshade, with protruding cones made up of united stamens,
are so designed that, as the bees must cling to them while sucking nectar, they receive pollen
jarred out from the end of the cone on their undersides.

The subject of savings banks for the army was allowed to rest for a time, but by the assistance
of Sir James McGregor and Lord Howick a scheme was at length approved and finally established
in 1842. The result has proved satisfactory in an eminent degree, and speaks well for the character
of the British soldier. It appears from a paper presented to the House of Commons some years
ago,--giving the details of the savings effected by the respective corps,--that the men of
the Royal Artillery had saved over twenty-three thousand pounds, or an average of sixteen pounds
to each depositor. These savings were made out of a daily pay of one and threepence and a penny
for beer-money, or equal to about nine and sixpence a week, subject to sundry deductions for
extra clothing. Again, the men of the Royal Engineers--mostly drawn from the skilled mechanical
class--had saved nearly twelve thousand pounds, or an average of about twenty pounds for each
depositor. The Twenty-sixth regiment of the line (Cameronians), whose pay was a shilling a
day and a penny for beer, saved over four thousand pounds. Two hundred and fifty men of the
first battalion, or one-third of the corps, were depositors in the savings bank, and their
savings amounted to about seventeen pounds per man.

