"No indeed!" chimed in Miss Candlish, "far from it.  No doubt you would get partners for all
if you wished."

"And is it true," she continued, "that I wish to go to these ridiculous soirees?"

"Certainly not, indeed," said the Drag, "nor do I wish to go, I am sure!"

"In that case I can dispose of your ticket," said he.  Unlucky man!  In these cases there is
no via media.  A man should either resist to the death or submit with as good a grace as he
can.  Half measures are fatal.

"No, my dear, you cannot dispose of that ticket," said his wife, "and I take it as very unkind
in you to speak to Aunt in that manner.  It is not because she is poor, and dependent upon
us, that she is to be sneered at and ill-treated."  At this speech the Drag burst into tears,
and declared that she always knew that Mr. Porkington hated her; that she might be poor and
old and ugly, etc., etc., but she little expected to be called so by him; that she would not
go to the ball now, if he implored her on his knees, and so on, and so on.

Now, who could have thought it?  All this fuss was occasioned by Mr. P. having meanly backed
out of giving Mrs. P. a new dress in which to electrify the fashionable world at Babbicombe.
Ah me!  Let us hope that in some far distant planet there may be some better world where all
unfortunate creatures,--dogs which have had tin kettles tied to their tails,--cockchafers which
have been spun upon pins,--poor men who have been over-crawed by wives, aunts, mothers-in-law,
and other terrors,--donkeys which have been undeservedly belaboured by costermongers,--and
authors who have been meritoriously abused by critics,--rest together in peace in a sort of
happy family.

At this point Barton, Glenville, Thornton, and I all entered the room.

"Oh, I am so glad to see the ladies are ready," said Thornton.  "This will be our last ball,
and we ought to make a happy evening of it.  Are you not sorry we are coming to the end of
our gaieties, Miss Candlish?"

"Sorry!" exclaimed the Drag, ferociously.  "Sorry!  I never was more pleased--pleased--pleased!"
Every time she repeated the word "pleased" she launched it at the head of the unfortunate tutor,
as if she hoped her words would turn into brickbats ere they reached him.

"I am glad to see you are going, however," said Glenville.

"There you are mistaken," said the Aunt, "for Mr. Porkington has been so very kind as to say
he had rather I did not go."

"Really, really," cried Porkington, "I can assure you it is quite the reverse.  I am so misunderstood
that really I am sure I can't tell--"

"Oh, pray do not disappoint us in our last evening together, Miss Candlish," said Glenville,
coming to the rescue of the unfortunate tutor, and speaking in his most fascinating manner,
"I have hoped for the pleasure of a quadrille and lancers and" (with an effort) "a waltz with
you this evening if you will allow me."

The Drag became calm, and after a little while diplomatic relations were fairly established,
and away we all went to the Assembly Rooms, Glenville whispering to me and Barton, "I have
made up my mind to get rid of that pink muslin to-night or perish in the attempt."  I had no
opportunity at the moment of asking him what he meant, but I was sure he meant mischief. However,
I never gave the matter a second thought, as the business of dancing soon commenced.  Captains
O'Brien and Kelly were already waltzing with the two Misses Bankes, and whispering delightful
nothings into their curls as we entered.  The artist was floundering in a persevering manner
with pretty Miss Bagshaw, and the doctor was standing in the doorway ruminating hopefully on
the probable effects of low dresses and cold draughts.  Thornton was soon engrossed in the
charms of his lady love, and Barton, Glenville, and I were doing our duty by all the young
ladies. The room was well filled, and, though not well lighted nor well appointed, was large
and cheerful enough.  The German Band performed prodigies; the row was simply deafening.  There
were a few seats by the walls for those who did not dance, and there was a room for lemonade,
cakes, and bad ices for those who liked them, as well as a small room in which the old fogies
could play a rubber of whist.

Mrs. Delamere had pinned Mr. Bankes in a corner, and was enlarging to him upon one of her favourite
topics.

"The Church of England," said she, "is undoubtedly in great danger, but why should we regret
it?  It has become a thing of the past, and so have chivalry and monasteries.  The mind of
the nineteenth century is marching on to its goal.  The intellect of England is asserting itself.
I have ever loved the intellect of England, haven't you?"

"Oh, quite so--ah, yes, certainly, of course!" said Mr. Bankes.

"You agree with me," said Mrs. Delamere; "I was sure you would.  This is most delightful. 
I have seldom talked with any true thinker who does not agree with me."

"I am sure," said Mr. Bankes gallantly, "no one would venture to cope with such an accomplished
disputant."

"Perhaps not," she said complacently, "but I should not desire to disagree with anyone upon
religious subjects.  The great desideratum--you see I understand the Latin tongue, Mr. Bankes--the
great desideratum is harmony--the harmony of the soul!  How are we to arrive at harmony? that
is the pressing question."

* * * * *

"Bagshaw, you are a low cheat, sir: you are nothing better than a common swindler, sir.  I
will not play with you any more.  Do you call yourself a whist player and make signs to your
partner.  I should be ashamed to stay in the same room with you."

Several of the dancers hastened into the card-room.  Mrs. Bagshaw was standing up flushed and
excited, and talking loudly and wildly.  She had overset her chair, and flung down her cards
upon the table.  Seeing Porkington enter, she cried out, "Look to your wife, sir, look to your
wife.  She received signals across the table.  It has nothing to do with the cards.  Look at
that man who is called my husband--that monster--that bundle of lies and deceit, who has been
the ruin of hundreds."

"By heavens, this is too bad!" exclaimed Colonel Bagshaw.  "I declare nothing has happened
that I know of, except that my wife has forgotten to count honours."

"It is a lie, sir, and you know it.  You are trying to ruin a woman before my very eyes.  Oh,
you man, you brute!  Oh, help, help me, help!" and in act to fall she steadied herself by clenching
tightly the back of her chair.  Her daughter was luckily close to her, "Oh, mamma, mamma,"
whispered she, "how can you say such things?  Come away, come away; you are ill.  Do come."
She led her out into the hall, and hurriedly adjusting the shawls, went home with her mother.

Porkington showed himself a man.  He took Colonel Bagshaw by the hand.  "I am very sorry,"
said he, "that Mrs. Bagshaw should have made some mistake.  Some sudden vexation, and I am
afraid some indisposition, must be the cause of her excitement.  Allow me to take her place
and finish the game.  I am afraid you will find me a poor performer, Colonel."

"Oh, not at all.  Let us begin.  I will deal again, and the scoring stands as it did."

Mrs. Porkington during this scene had turned pale and red alternately. Her husband's dignity
and presence of mind astonished her.  She was so excited as to be almost unable to play her
cards, and her lips and eyes betrayed very great emotion.  The tutor's cheek showed some trace
of colour, and his manner was even graver than usual, but that was all; and his wife felt the
presence of a superior force to her own, and was checked into silence.  I had always felt sure
that there was a reserve of force in the timid nature of our Coach which seemed to peep forth
at times and then retire again.  It was curious to mark on these rare occasions how the more
boisterous self-assertion of Mrs. Porkington seemed for a time to cower before the gentler
but finer will.  Natures are not changed in a day, but the effect of the singular scene which
had been enacted at that time was never effaced, and a gradual and mutual approach was made
between husband and wife towards a more cordial and complete sympathy.

The music had not ceased playing during the disturbance, and the dancers, with great presence
of mind, quickly returned to their places, and the usual frivolities of the evening continued
to the accustomed hour of midnight, when the party began to break up.  I could not find Glenville
or Barton.  Where could they be?  Once or twice in the pauses of the dance I had noticed them
talking earnestly together, and occasionally with suppressed laughter.  "Now, what joke are
these fellows up to, I wonder?"  However, it was not my business to inquire, though I had a
kind of fear that the combination of gunpowder with lucifer matches in a high temperature could
hardly be more dangerous than the meeting of Glenville and Barton in a mischievous mood.  Before
the last dance had commenced they had left the hall, and, as soon as they got outside, they
found Miss Candlish's sedan chair in the custody of the two men who usually carried her to
and fro when she attended the balls.  Two other sedan chairs, several bath chairs and donkey
chairs, and a couple of flys were in attendance.  Aided by the magical influence of a small
"tip," Glenville easily persuaded the men in charge that the dance would not be over for a
few minutes, and that they had time to go and get a glass of beer, which, he said, Miss Candlish
wished them to have in return for the care and trouble they had several times taken in carrying
her home.  As soon as they had gone, he and Barton came back into the ball-room; and, as the
last dance was coming to an end, and the band was beginning to scramble through "God save the
Queen," in a most disloyal manner, he came up to Miss Candlish, and said, "May I have the pleasure
of seeing you to your chair, and thanking you for that very delightful dance?"

"My dear Mr. Glenville," said the Drag, "your politeness is quite overpowering.  Ah, if all
young men were like you, what a very different world it would be."

"You must not flatter me," said Glenville, "for I am very soft hearted, especially where the
fair sex is concerned."

"Ah, how I wish I had a son like you!" sighed the Drag.

"And how I wish you were my m--m--mother!" replied that villain Glenville, as he adjusted her
cloak, and led her out to her chair.  It was pitchy dark outside (only a couple of candle lanterns
to see by), and the usual confusion upon the breaking up of a large party was taking place.
Miss Candlish stepped into her chair, and the door was closed. Glenville and Barton took up
the chair, and, going as smoothly as they could (which was not as smoothly as the usual carriers),
they turned aside from the main stream of the visitors, and made at once for the harbour. 
Here they had intended to deposit the chair, and leave the rest to fate; but, as luck would
have it, in setting down the chair in the darkness, one side of it projected over a sort of
landing-place.  It toppled over and fell sideways with a splash into the muddy water.  Scream
upon scream followed rapidly.  "Murder! thieves! help!"  Shriek after shriek, and at last a
female form, wildly flinging her arms into the air, could be seen emerging from the half buried
chair.  Glenville and Barton had run away before the chair fell, but, hearing the fall, looked
back, and were at first spellbound with terror at what had happened.  When, however, they saw
the Drag emerge, they fairly fled for their lives by a circuitous way little frequented by
night, and reached home just before the rest of us arrived.  There was some alarm when Miss
Candlish did not arrive for about twenty minutes or half an hour.  Glenville and Barton told
Thornton and myself what had happened, and wanted to know what they should do.  Of course,
we advised that they should say and do nothing, but wait upon the will of the Fates.  They
were in a great fright, and when Miss Candlish arrived in charge of two policemen their terror
became wild.  And yet they both said afterwards that they could hardly help laughing out loud.
The pink muslin was draggled and besmeared with harbour mud, and torn half out of the gathers.
Its owner was in a state of rage, terror, and hysterics.  The commotion was fearful.  It was
very strange she did not seem to have the faintest suspicion of any of our party.  She was
sure the men were drunk because they carried her so unsteadily.  She was positive they meant
to rob her or something worse. She saw them as they were running away.  They were the very
same men who always carried her.  She never could bear those men.  They looked more like demons
than men.  She would leave the place next day.  She had been disgraced.  Everybody hated her,
nobody had any pity.  She would go to bed.  Don't speak to her--go away--go away, do!  Brandy
and water, certainly not! and so on.  Till at last Mrs. Porkington prevailed on her to go to
bed.  We had all vanished as quickly as we could and smoked a pipe, discussing in low tones
the lowering appearance of the skies above us, and the consequences which might ensue upon
those inquiries which we foresaw must inevitably take place.

I never quite knew how it was managed, but two policemen came the next morning and actually
examined our boots and trousers, and then had a long interview with Mr. Porkington; and finally
we, who were waiting in terror in the dining-room, saw the pair of them go out of the front
door, touching their hats to Porkington.  I thought at the time that he must have bribed them;
but afterwards, on thinking it over, I came to the conclusion that there was no evidence of
the complicity of our party.  Of course, the sedan men did not know what had happened.  Porkington
stoutly refused to let the policemen come into our study, and told them he should regard them
as trespassers if they ventured to go into any other room. The Drag, although she declared
she knew the two men, had no desire to bring the matter before the public.  Porkington never
said a word to any of us upon the subject, though he looked cross and nervous.  As soon as
the aunt had taken her departure (which she did the next day) he quite recovered his good humour,
and, I believe, even chuckled inwardly at the episode.  The Babbicombe Independent had an amusing
paragraph upon the incident, and opined that some drunken sailors from one of the neighbouring
ports were the perpetrators of the coarse practical joke; but we found that the general opinion
among the visitors was not so wide of the truth.  However, as no one cared for the lady it
took less than nine days to get rid of the wonder.

CHAPTER VI.--THE SHORE.

"Barton," said Glenville, "I want to speak to you, old chap.  You won't mind me speaking to
you, will you?"

Barton's brow clouded at once.  He knew what was coming.  "I don't know what you mean," said he.

"Well, I want to talk to you about that girl."

"What right have you to interfere?  That's my business, not yours."

"If you are going to be angry, I'll shut up.  But I tell you plainly, it's a beastly shame;
and if you dare to do any harm to her I'll kick you out of the place."

"Out of what place?"

"Why, out of this or any other place I find you in.  You've no right to go meeting her as you do."

"And you've no right to speak of her like that.  She is as pure as any child in the world,
and you ought to know I would do her no harm.  You are trying to insult both me and her."

"Well, I'm very glad to hear you say so.  But, see what folly it all is. You know you don't
intend to marry her.  Do you?"

"Why, as to that I don't know.  I'm not obliged to tell you what I mean to do."

"No; but you ought to think about what you mean to do.  You know she is engaged to be married
to Hawkstone."

"Yes; but I don't think she cares for him a bit--only to tease him."

"Do just think what you are doing as a man and a gentleman--I won't say as a Christian, for
you tell me you mean nothing bad.  But is it manly, is it fair to play these sort of tricks?
I must tell you we must give up being chums any longer if this goes on."

"I tell you what, Glenville, I think you are giving yourself mighty fine airs, and all about
nothing; but just because you have an uncle who is a lord you think you may preach as much
as you like."

"Oh, come now, that's all nonsense!" said Glenville.  "If you are determined to shut me up,
I've done.  Liberavi animam meam.  I am sorry if I have offended you.  I say it's quite time
we went to join the other fellows.  They want us to go with some of the ladies over the cliffs."

"Thanks, I can't come.  I've a lot more work to do, and--and I've hurt my heel a bit and don't
care to go a stiff climb to-day."

Glenville looked at him, and saw a red glow rising in his neck as he turned away his face and
sat down to a book on the table, pretending to read, as Glenville left the room.

The sky was dark, and ominous of storm.  It had a torn and ragged appearance, as if it had
already had a fight with worse weather and was trying to escape.  The sea-gulls showed like
white breakers upon the dark sky.  The waves roared and grumbled, lashing themselves into a
fury as they burst in white, wrathful foam against the black rocks, and then drew back, torn
and mangled, to mingle with the crowd of waves rushing on to their doom.  The visitors, dressed
for squally weather, in waterproofs or rough suits, walked up and down the parade, enjoying
the exhilarating breeze, or stood watching with eager excitement the entry of a fishing smack
into the harbour.  Far away out at sea in the mist of distant spray and rain two or three brigantines
or schooners could be dimly descried labouring with the storm;--mysterious and awful sight
as it always seems to me.  Will she get safe to port?  What is her cargo?  What her human freight?
What are they doing or thinking?  What language do they speak? Are there women or children
aboard?  Who knows?  Ah, gentle reader, what do you and I know of each other, and what do we
know of even our nearest friends; to what port are they struggling through the mists which
envelop them, and who will meet them on the shore?

An hour had not elapsed since Glenville had left Barton before the latter had reached the first
promontory of rocks which shut in the little bay of Babbicombe, and on turning the corner found,
as he had expected and appointed, the young woman who had been the subject of their angry conversation.
She rose from a rock on which she had been sitting, and came to meet him with a frank smile,
saying, "Good afternoon, Mr. Henry." Somehow the slightly coarse intonation struck him as it
had never done before, and the freedom of manner which a few hours ago would have delighted
him now sent a chilling sensation to his heart.  "Good afternoon," he replied, and, drawing
his arm round her waist, he kissed her several times, and held her so firmly that at last she
said, "Oh, sir, you'll hurt me.  Let me go!"  Then holding him away from her, and looking him
full in the face, she said, "Oh, Mr. Henry, whatever can be the matter!"  "Come and sit down,
darling," he said, "I want to say something to you."  He led her to a seat upon the rocks,
and they both sat down.  "Darling," he said, "I am afraid I must go away at once and leave
you for ever."  "Oh, no, no, no! not that!" she cried, starting up. In a moment her manner
changed from fear to anger.  "I know what it is!" she exclaimed, "Hawkstone has been rude to
you.  There now, I will never forgive him.  I will never be friends with him again--never!"

"No, darling, it is nothing about Hawkstone at all.  I haven't seen him. But come here, you
must be quiet and listen to what I have to say."

She sat down again beside him.  Her lips quivered.  Her blue eyes were staring into the cliff
in front of her, but she saw nothing, felt nothing, except that a dreadful moment had come
which she had for some time dimly expected, but never distinctly foreseen.

"I hardly know how to tell you," he began.  "You know I love you very dearly, and if I could--if
it was possible, I would ask you to marry me. But I cannot.  It is impossible.  It would bring
misery upon all, upon my father and mother, and upon you.  How can I make you understand? 
My people are rich, all their friends are rich, and all very proud."

The tears were streaming down her face, and she sat motionless.

"But I don't want to know your friends," she said, in a choking voice.

"I know, I know," he said, "and I could be quite happy with you if they were all dead and out
of the way, and if the world was different from what it is.  But I have thought it all out,
and I am sure I ought to go away at once, and never come back again."

There was a long pause, but at last she rose and said, "Mr. Barton, I have felt that something
of this sort might happen, but I have never thought it out, as you say you have.  I am confused
now it has come, just as if I had never feared it beforehand.  I was very, very happy, and
I would not think of what might come of it.  I might have known that a grand gentleman like
you would never live with the like of me; but then I thought I loved you very, very dearly;
you seemed so bright, and grand, and tender, that I loved you in spite of all I was afraid
of, and I thought if you loved me you might perhaps be--"  Here she broke down altogether,
and burst into sobs, and seemed as though she would fall.  He rose and threw his arms round
her, led her back to the rock, called her all the sweet names he could think of, kissed her
again and again, and tried to soothe her; while she, poor thing, could do nothing but sob,
with her head upon his shoulder.

A loud shout aroused them.  They both rose suddenly, and turned their faces towards the place
whence the sound proceeded.  Hawkstone was just emerging from the surf, which was lashing furiously
against the corner of the cliff, round which they had come dry-shod a short time before, They
at once guessed their fate, and glanced in dismay at one another and then at the sea, and again
at Hawkstone, who rapidly approached them, drenched through and through, and in a fierce state
of wrath and terror, added to the excitement of his struggle with the waves.

"What are you doing here?" he cried, and in the same breath, "Don't answer--don't dare to answer,
but listen.  You are caught by the tide.  I have sent a boy back to Babbicombe for help.  No
help can come by sea in such a storm.  They will bring a basket and ropes by the cliff.  It
will be a race between them and the tide.  If all goes well, they will be here in time.  If
not, we shall all be drowned."

"Is there no way up the cliff?" said Barton.

"None.  The cliff overhangs.  There is a place where I have just come through, but I doubt
if I could reach it again; and I am sure neither of you could stand the surf.  You must wait."
He then turned from them, and sat himself down on a fallen piece of the cliff, and buried his
face in his hands.  Nellie sank down on the rock where she and Barton had been sitting, and
he stood by her, helplessly gazing alternately with a pale face and bewildered mind at his
two companions.  Two or three minutes passed without any motion or sound from the living occupants
of the bay; but the roaring of the sea grew louder and louder, and the terror of it sank into
the hearts of all three.  At last Hawkstone raised his head, and immediately Barton approached him.

"Forgive me, Hawkstone," he said, "I have done you a great wrong, and I am sorry for it."

"What's the good in saying that?  You can't mend the wrong you have done," and his head sank
down again between his hands.

There was a pause.  Barton felt that what had been said was true and not true.  One of the
most painful consequences of wrong-doing is that the wrong has a sort of fungus growth about
it, and insists upon appearing more wrong than it ever was meant to be.

"Hawkstone," he said at last, "I swear to you, on my honour as a gentleman, I have never dreamed
of doing her an injury.  I have been very, very foolish; I have come between you and her with
my cursed folly. I deserve anything you may say or do to me.  I care nothing about the waves;
let them come.  Take her with you up the cliff, and leave me to drown.  It's all I'm fit for.
She will forget me soon enough, I feel sure, for I am not worth remembering."

Hawkstone still kept himself bent down, his hands covering his face, and his body swaying to
and fro with his strong emotions.

"You talk, you talk," he muttered.  "You seem to have ruined her, and me, and yourself too."

"Not ruined her!" cried Barton, "I have told you, I swear to you.  I swear--"

"Yes!" cried Hawkstone, springing up in a passion and towering above Barton, with his hands
tightly clenched and his chest heaving, "Yes! you are too great a coward for that.  In one
moment I could crush you as I crush the mussels in the harbour with my heel."

Nelly threw herself upon him, "Jack, spare him, spare him.  He meant no harm.  Not now, not
now!  The sea, Jack, the sea!  Save us, save us!"

The man's strength seemed to leave him, and she seemed to overpower him, as he sank back into
his former position, muttering "O God, O God!"  At last he said, "Let be, let be--there, there,
I've prayed I might not kill you both, and the devil is gone, thank the Lord for it.  There,
lass, don't fret; I can't abide crying.  The sea! the sea!  Yes, the sea.  I had almost forgotten
it.  Cheer up a bit--fearful--how it blows--but there's time yet--a few minutes.  Keep up,
keep up.  There's a God above us anyway."

At this moment a shout was heard above them.  "There they are at last," cried Hawkstone, and
he sent a loud halloo up the cliff, which was immediately responded to by those at the top,
though the sound seemed faint and far off.  After the lapse of about five minutes, a basket
attached to two ropes descended slowly and bumped upon the rocks.

"Now, lass, you get up first.  Come, come, give over crying.  It's no time for crying now.
Be a brave lass or you'll fall out.  Sit down and keep tight hold.  Shut your eyes, never mind
a bump or two, and keep tight hold.  Now then!"  He lifted her into the basket.  She tried
to take his hand, but he drew it sharply away.

"Oh, forgive me, forgive me, Jack," she said, "I have been very wicked, but I will try to be good."

"That's right, lass, that's right.  God keep you safe.  Hold on," and he gave a shout up the
cliff, and the basket began slowly to ascend.  The two men gazed at it in silence till it reached
the summit, when, with a rapid swirl, it disappeared.

"Thank God, she is safe," said Hawkstone.

"Look, look!" cried Barton, catching hold of Hawkstone in alarm.  "Look how fast the waves
are coming.  They will be on us directly."

"Yes," said Hawkstone, "there will be barely time to get the two of us up unless they make
great haste.  I don't know why they don't lower at once. Something must have gone wrong with
the rope, but they will do their best, that's certain."

They waited in anxiety amounting to horror, as wave after wave, larger and louder, roared at
them, and rushed round the rocks on which they were standing.  Presently down came the basket,
plunging into the retreating wave.

"Now, then, sir, in with you," said Hawkstone.

"No, you go first.  I will not go.  It is my fault you are here."

"Nonsense, sir, there's no time for talk."

"I will not go without you.  Let us both get in together."

"The rope will hardly bear two.  Besides, I doubt if there is strength enough above to pull
us up.  Get in, get in."

Barton still hesitated.  "I am afraid to leave you alone.  Promise me if I go that you will
not--.  I can't say what I mean, but if anything happened to you I should be the cause of it."

"For shame, sir, shame.  I guess what you mean, but I have not forgotten who made me, though
I have been sorely tried.  In with you at once."  He suddenly lifted Barton up in his arms,
and almost threw him into the basket, raising a loud shout, upon which the basket again ascended
the cliff more rapidly than on the first occasion.  Hawkstone fell upon his knees at the base
of the cliff, while the waves roared at him like wild beasts held back from their victim. 
He was alone with them and with the God in whom his simple faith taught him to trust as being
mightier than all the waves.  Down came the basket with great rapidity, and Hawkstone had a
hard fight before he could drag it out from the waves and get into it.  Drenched from head
to foot, and cold and trembling with excitement and grief, he again shouted, and the basket
once more ascended.  He remembered no more.  A sudden faintness overcame him, and the first
thing he remembered was feeling himself borne along on a kind of extemporary litter, and hearing
kind voices saying that he was "coming to," and would soon be all right again.

Luckily there was no scandal.  It was thought quite natural that Hawkstone should be with Nelly,
and Barton was supposed to have been there by accident.  Of course, we knew what the real state
of the case was, and were glad that Barton had got a good fright; but we kept our own counsel.

CHAPTER VII.--CONCLUSION.

Very soon after the events recorded in the last chapter, the Reading Party broke up, and it
only remains now for the writer of this veracious narrative to disclose any information he
may have subsequently obtained as to the fate of his characters.  Porkington still holds an
honoured position in the University, and still continues to take young men in the summer vacation
to such places as Mrs. Porkington considers sufficiently invigorating to her constitution.
They grow better friends every year, but the grey mare will always be the better horse.  One
cause of difference has disappeared.  The Drag died very shortly after leaving Babbicombe;
not at all, I believe, in consequence of her ducking in the harbour; but, being of a peevish
and "worritting" disposition, she had worn herself out in her attempts to make other people's
lives a burden to them.  I do not know what has become of Harry Barton; but I know that he
has never revisited Babbicombe, nor even written to the fair Nelly.  I suppose he is helping
to manage his father's cotton mill, and will in due course marry the daughter of a wealthy
manufacturer.  Glenville has become quite a rising barrister, popular in both branches of his
profession, and has announced his fixed intention to remain happy and unmarried till his death.
Looking into the future, however, with the eye of a prophet, the present writer thinks he can
see Glenville walking arm in arm with a tall, graceful lady, attended by two little girls to
whom he is laughingly talking--but the dream fades from me, and I wonder will it ever come
true.  Thornton, of course, married Miss Delamere (how could it be otherwise), but, alas! there
are no children, and this unhappy want is hardly compensated by the indefatigable attentions
of Mamma Delamere, who is never weary of condoling with that poor, desolate couple, imploring
them to resign themselves to the fate which has been assigned to them, and to strengthen their
minds by the principles of true philosophy and the writings of great thinkers; by which she
hopes they may acquire that harmony of the soul in private life which is so much to be desiderated
in both politics and religion.  Nobody knows what she means.

Nelly was not forgiven for one whole year.  When she and Hawkstone met, they used only the
customary expressions of mere acquaintances; but lovers are known to make use of signals which
are unperceived by the outside world; and, after a year's skirmishing, a peace was finally
concluded, and a happier couple than John Hawkstone and Nelly cannot be found in the whole
country, and I am afraid to say how many of their children are already tumbling about the boats
in the harbour.

The colonel died, and Mrs. Bagshaw lamented his death most truly, and has nothing but gentleness
left in her nature.  Her daughter has married the young artist, whose pictures of brown-sailed
boats and fresh seas breaking in white foam against the dark rocks have become quite the rage
at the Academy.  The minor characters have disappeared beneath the waves, and nothing remains
to be said except the last word, "farewell."

A FARRAGO OF VERSES.

MY BOATING SONG.

I.

Oh this earth is a mineful of treasure,
   A goblet, that's full to the brim,
And each man may take for his pleasure
   The thing that's most pleasant to him;
Then let all, who are birds of my feather,
   Throw heart and soul into my song;
Mark the time, pick it up all together,
   And merrily row it along.

   Hurrah, boys, or losing or winning,
      Feel your stretchers and make the blades bend;
   Hard on to it, catch the beginning,
      And pull it clean through to the end.

II.

I'll admit 'tis delicious to plunge in
   Clear pools, with their shadows at rest;
'Tis nimble to parry, or lunge in
   Your foil at the enemy's chest;
 'Tis rapture to take a man's wicket,
   Or lash round to leg for a four;
But somehow the glories of cricket
   Depend on the state of the score.

   But in boating, or losing or winning,
      Though victory may not attend;
   Oh, 'tis jolly to catch the beginning,
      And pull it clean through to the end.

III.

'Tis brave over hill and dale sweeping,
   To be in at the death of the fox;
Or to whip, where the salmon are leaping,
   The river that roars o'er the rocks;
'Tis prime to bring down the cock pheasant;
   And yachting is certainly great;
But, beyond all expression, 'tis pleasant
   To row in a rattling good eight.

   Then, hurrah, boys, or losing or winning,
      What matter what labour we spend?
   Hard on to it, catch the beginning,
      And pull it clean through to the end.

IV.

Shove her off!  Half a stroke!  Now, get ready!
   Five seconds!  Four, three, two, one, gun!
Well started!  Well rowed!  Keep her steady!
   You'll want all your wind e'er you've done.
Now you're straight!  Let the pace become swifter!
   Roll the wash to the left and the right!
Pick it up all together, and lift her,
   As though she would bound out of sight!

   Hurrah, Hall!

V.

Bump!  Bump!  O ye gods, how I pity
   The ears those sweet sounds never heard;
More tuneful than loveliest ditty
   E'er poured from the throat of a bird.
There's a prize for each honest endeavour,
   But none for the man who's a shirk;
And the pluck that we've showed on the river,
   Shall tell in the rest of our work.

   At the last, whether losing or winning,
      This thought with all memories blend,--
   We forgot not to catch the beginning,
      And we pulled it clean through to the end.

LETTER FROM THE TOWN MOUSE TO THE COUNTRY MOUSE.

I.

