THE YELLOW FAIRY BOOK

By Various

Edited By Andrew Lang

Dedication

TO

JOAN, TODDLES, AND TINY

 Books Yellow, Red, and Green and Blue,
 All true, or just as good as true,
 And here's the Yellow Book for YOU!

 Hard is the path from A to Z,
 And puzzling to a curly head,
 Yet leads to Books--Green, Blue, and Red.

 For every child should understand
 That letters from the first were planned
 To guide us into Fairy Land

 So labour at your Alphabet,
 For by that learning shall you get
 To lands where Fairies may be met.

 And going where this pathway goes,
 You too, at last, may find, who knows?
 The Garden of the Singing Rose.

PREFACE

The Editor thinks that children will readily forgive him for publishing another Fairy Book.
We have had the Blue, the Red, the Green, and here is the Yellow. If children are pleased,
and they are so kind as to say that they are pleased, the Editor does not care very much for
what other people may say. Now, there is one gentleman who seems to think that it is not quite
right to print so many fairy tales, with pictures, and to publish them in red and blue covers.
He is named Mr. G. Laurence Gomme, and he is president of a learned body called the Folk Lore
Society. Once a year he makes his address to his subjects, of whom the Editor is one, and Mr.
Joseph Jacobs (who has published many delightful fairy tales with pretty pictures)(1) is another.
Fancy, then, the dismay of Mr. Jacobs, and of the Editor, when they heard their president say
that he did not think it very nice in them to publish fairy books, above all, red, green, and
blue fairy books! They said that they did not see any harm in it, and they were ready to 'put
themselves on their country,' and be tried by a jury of children. And, indeed, they still see
no harm in what they have done; nay, like Father William in the poem, they are ready 'to do
it again and again.'

(1) You may buy them from Mr. Nutt, in the Strand.

Where is the harm? The truth is that the Folk Lore Society--made up of the most clever, learned,
and beautiful men and women of the country--is fond of studying the history and geography of
Fairy Land. This is contained in very old tales, such as country people tell, and savages:

     'Little Sioux and little Crow,
      Little frosty Eskimo.'

These people are thought to know most about fairyland and its inhabitants. But, in the Yellow
Fairy Book, and the rest, are many tales by persons who are neither savages nor rustics, such
as Madame D'Aulnoy and Herr Hans Christian Andersen. The Folk Lore Society, or its president,
say that THEIR tales are not so true as the rest, and should not be published with the rest.
But WE say that all the stories which are pleasant to read are quite true enough for us; so
here they are, with pictures by Mr. Ford, and we do not think that either the pictures or the
stories are likely to mislead children.

As to whether there are really any fairies or not, that is a difficult question. Professor
Huxley thinks there are none. The Editor never saw any himself, but he knows several people
who have seen them--in the Highlands--and heard their music. If ever you are in Nether Lochaber,
go to the Fairy Hill, and you may hear the music yourself, as grown-up people have done, but
you must goon a fine day. Again, if there are really no fairies, why do people believe in them,
all over the world? The ancient Greeks believed, so did the old Egyptians, and the Hindoos,
and the Red Indians, and is it likely, if there are no fairies, that so many different peoples
would have seen and heard them? The Rev. Mr. Baring-Gould saw several fairies when he was a
boy, and was travelling in the land of the Troubadours. For these reasons, the Editor thinks
that there are certainly fairies, but they never do anyone any harm; and, in England, they
have been frightened away by smoke and schoolmasters. As to Giants, they have died out, but
real Dwarfs are common in the forests of Africa. Probably a good many stories not perfectly
true have been told about fairies, but such stories have also been told about Napoleon, Claverhouse,
Julius Caesar, and Joan of Arc, all of whom certainly existed. A wise child will, therefore,
remember that, if he grows up and becomes a member of the Folk Lore Society, ALL the tales
in this book were not offered to him as absolutely truthful, but were printed merely for his
entertainment. The exact facts he can learn later, or he can leave them alone.

There are Russian, German, French, Icelandic, Red Indian, and other stories here. They were
translated by Miss Cheape, Miss Alma, and Miss Thyra Alleyne, Miss Sellar, Mr. Craigie (he
did the Icelandic tales), Miss Blackley, Mrs. Dent, and Mrs. Lang, but the Red Indian stories
are copied from English versions published by the Smithsonian Bureau of Ethnology, in America.
Mr. Ford did the pictures, and it is hoped that children will find the book not less pleasing
than those which have already been submitted to their consideration. The Editor cannot say
'good-bye' without advising them, as they pursue their studies, to read The Rose and the Ring,
by the late Mr. Thackeray, with pictures by the author. This book he thinks quite indispensable
in every child's library, and parents should be urged to purchase it at the first opportunity,
as without it no education is complete.

                                        A. LANG.

CONTENTS

     The Cat and the Mouse in Partnership
     The Six Swans
     The Dragon of the North
     Story of the Emperor's New Clothes
     The Golden Crab
     The Iron Stove
     The Dragon and his Grandmother
     The Donkey Cabbage
     The Little Green Frog
     The Seven-headed Serpent
     The Grateful Beasts
     The Giants and the Herd-boy
     The Invisible Prince
     The Crow
     How Six Men travelled through the Wide World
     The Wizard King
     The Nixy
     The Glass Mountain
     Alphege, or the Green Monkey
     Fairer-than-a-Fairy
     The Three Brothers
     The Boy and the Wolves, or the Broken Promise
     The Glass Axe
     The Dead Wife
     In the Land of Souls
     The White Duck
     The Witch and her Servants
     The Magic Ring
     The Flower Queen's Daughter
     The Flying Ship
     The Snow-daughter and the Fire-son
     The Story of King Frost
     The Death of the Sun-hero
     The Witch
     The Hazel-nut Child
     The Story of Big Klaus and Little Klaus
     Prince Ring
     The Swineherd
     How to tell a True Princess
     The Blue Mountains
     The Tinder-box
     The Witch in the Stone Boat
     Thumbelina
     The Nightingale
     Hermod and Hadvor
     The Steadfast Tin-soldier
     Blockhead Hans
     A Story about a Darning-needle

THE YELLOW FAIRY BOOK

THE CAT AND THE MOUSE IN PARTNERSHIP

A cat had made acquaintance with a mouse, and had spoken so much of the great love and friendship
she felt for her, that at last the Mouse consented to live in the same house with her, and
to go shares in the housekeeping. 'But we must provide for the winter or else we shall suffer
hunger,' said the Cat. 'You, little Mouse, cannot venture everywhere in case you run at last
into a trap.' This good counsel was followed, and a little pot of fat was bought. But they
did not know where to put it. At length, after long consultation, the Cat said, 'I know of
no place where it could be better put than in the church. No one will trouble to take it away
from there. We will hide it in a corner, and we won't touch it till we are in want.' So the
little pot was placed in safety; but it was not long before the Cat had a great longing for
it, and said to the Mouse, 'I wanted to tell you, little Mouse, that my cousin has a little
son, white with brown spots, and she wants me to be godmother to it. Let me go out to-day,
and do you take care of the house alone.'

'Yes, go certainly,' replied the Mouse, 'and when you eat anything good, think of me; I should
very much like a drop of the red christening wine.'

But it was all untrue. The Cat had no cousin, and had not been asked to be godmother. She went
straight to the church, slunk to the little pot of fat, began to lick it, and licked the top
off. Then she took a walk on the roofs of the town, looked at the view, stretched herself out
in the sun, and licked her lips whenever she thought of the little pot of fat. As soon as it
was evening she went home again.

'Ah, here you are again!' said the Mouse; 'you must certainly have had an enjoyable day.'

'It went off very well,' answered the Cat.

'What was the child's name?' asked the Mouse.

'Top Off,' said the Cat drily.

'Topoff!' echoed the Mouse, 'it is indeed a wonderful and curious name. Is it in your family?'

'What is there odd about it?' said the Cat. 'It is not worse than Breadthief, as your godchild
is called.'

Not long after this another great longing came over the Cat. She said to the Mouse, 'You must
again be kind enough to look after the house alone, for I have been asked a second time to
stand godmother, and as this child has a white ring round its neck, I cannot refuse.'

The kind Mouse agreed, but the Cat slunk under the town wall to the church, and ate up half
of the pot of fat. 'Nothing tastes better,' said she, 'than what one eats by oneself,' and
she was very much pleased with her day's work. When she came home the Mouse asked, 'What was
this child called?'

'Half Gone,' answered the Cat.

'Halfgone! what a name! I have never heard it in my life. I don't believe it is in the calendar.'

Soon the Cat's mouth began to water once more after her licking business. 'All good things
in threes,' she said to the Mouse; 'I have again to stand godmother. The child is quite black,
and has very white paws, but not a single white hair on its body. This only happens once in
two years, so you will let me go out?'

'Topoff! Halfgone!' repeated the Mouse, 'they are such curious names; they make me very thoughtful.'

'Oh, you sit at home in your dark grey coat and your long tail,' said the Cat, 'and you get
fanciful. That comes of not going out in the day.'

The Mouse had a good cleaning out while the Cat was gone, and made the house tidy; but the
greedy Cat ate the fat every bit up.

'When it is all gone one can be at rest,' she said to herself, and at night she came home sleek
and satisfied. The Mouse asked at once after the third child's name.

'It won't please you any better,' said the Cat, 'he was called Clean Gone.'

'Cleangone!' repeated the Mouse. 'I do not believe that name has been printed any more than
the others. Cleangone! What can it mean?' She shook her head, curled herself up, and went to sleep.

From this time on no one asked the Cat to stand godmother; but when the winter came and there
was nothing to be got outside, the Mouse remembered their provision and said, 'Come, Cat, we
will go to our pot of fat which we have stored away; it will taste very good.'

'Yes, indeed,' answered the Cat; 'it will taste as good to you as if you stretched your thin
tongue out of the window.'

They started off, and when they reached it they found the pot in its place, but quite empty!

'Ah,' said the Mouse,' 'now I know what has happened! It has all come out! You are a true friend
to me! You have eaten it all when you stood godmother; first the top off, then half of it gone,
then----'

'Will you be quiet!' screamed the Cat. 'Another word and I will eat you up.'

'Clean-gone' was already on the poor Mouse's tongue, and scarcely was it out than the Cat made
a spring at her, seized and swallowed her.

You see that is the way of the world.

THE SIX SWANS

A king was once hunting in a great wood, and he hunted the game so eagerly that none of his
courtiers could follow him. When evening came on he stood still and looked round him, and he
saw that he had quite lost himself. He sought a way out, but could find none. Then he saw an
old woman with a shaking head coming towards him; but she was a witch. In the years when the imagination is our nurse, play thousands enthusiasms and deceptive
feelings melt away around us, the resort when we return to them in our air and Spirit to a sluggish,
that lead-free tranquility. The male youth must all these childish fancies reject with a serious
look, undisturbed on its path further go and this morning mists give not even a discarded eye.

Abdallah.
Since yesterday, but the idea worries me. Tell me who is this Omar?

I will tell you everything I know about him, replied Selim; you have it until now "as your
teacher and friend loved, you will now honor him as your benefactor. - Ali, like a consuming
fire in the body of his country's raging against the thousand curses of widows and orphans
floating restlessly around the throne of God, Ali also had me in a thousand made miserable. I was
rich and my treasures drew his greed, he took from me everything what I possessed - only your
mother and you - next I had nothing left in this world. You were a summer ago and smiled at
your mother's breast without understanding the misery contrary. - We left the city and wandered
over unknown mountains to other areas the misery was next to us and gave us the poor food, all
my friends left me as if they had never known me, worry and poverty were our only inseparable
Companion, so we walked from town to town and lived on the meager alms to us the compassion of the
people threw. - A silent grief rummaged invisible in the hearts of your Mother, she smiled and
handed me goodbye - and went after a few hours in their better back home. I stayed with my
misfortune in solitude.

Selim sad silent for some time, he continued:

She was buried. The earth was wet and heavy down at her, a knife cut through my Soul if you asked
with a childish smile for your mother, and knocked at the grave, heraufzulocken them again, but
your smile was the last weak band, which I then back to this world, held inviolable obligations
talked me out of your friendly Eye on, you were still alive and therefore I was the life of something
dear. I could not Remove from the area, rested in the Zamiri, her spirit seemed to hover there,
and me in the homes of my grief to hold back. - Abdallah Oh, there were sad days - if the young
Morgenroth seemed so burning rose up and trembling on my sleepless eyes, when the golden evening
moved over the mountains and the sad lonely night with hundreds of new concerns slowly ascended,
- the memory of those days - the man must suffer much, but his Muth has never left him.

A small silence. Attention and sad Abdallah heard the story of his father, this Then he added:

I
visited the cemetery every day on which it rested, I devoutly prayed
to her grave and prayed for strength.

In the deepest feelings of my misery I once sat on the grave, you game test at ease in front
of me in the deep grass, the past was friendly towards me and sat down beside me confidentially,
unmanly tears ran down my cheeks hot and fell dead on yellow flowers that bloom on the grave.
- Suddenly I saw a dervish, who approached me from the shadows of the trees. He had visited
me in my happiness often and in his presence I always felt a sacred awe, as a silent shower breathed
at me as if it blew from the spirit of the prophet. My bad luck seemed to Grave, he said, is
contrary to bloom decayed behind that hill, and a new happiness to you, move. - I dug and
found a great treasure, who replaced me more than I had taken Ali, - When I wanted to bring
my hot thanks to the dervish, 'I could see him anywhere - And this is Omar Dervish?

Abdallah. Omar?

Selim.

Your teacher Omar. - Him I owe everything I have, all I have is only a good that he has lent
me. - I sat down at the farthest limits of the empire, changed my name and called me Selim. Here
I was, Ali's cruelty and greed sure until now he has changed his residence for a year and go here.
- I was now "just as happy as I could be when, after three years, a strange Release visited
my house. Hagren a parched old man handed me his long hand, like a dead men's rattling leg,
saw the death occurred in his deep eyes, powerless staggered the skull back and forth and his
speech was only the gasp of a dying man. I alarmed at the sight of misery and take a long time,
I saw how that dead skeleton - Your Omar.

Abdallah. Omar?

Selim. I took him in as my benefactor, fed him like a father until withdrawn by his Siechheit
genaß. were returned as his health and his strength, he took friendship of my hand and said, "You
are my benefactor Selim, you saved my life and I will not be ungrateful, you have a son, he wants
to pay me what I am the father can not pay. "Thus was our benefactor,
your playmate, your teacher, your friend.

Abdallah was thinking. A new appreciation bound him tightly to Omar and was hanging on his Teach
even greater weight, his teacher was undoubted virtue, the more reliable had to be his wisdom,
and the vicious, who denies that virtue is not heard but if the noble
enough the bad guy's hand and called him brother boldly, then hesitates
the proud virtue and looks doubtful in their inner being.

You are silent, Selim began again, so now you are not eager to hear
the message that I had to announce to you?

Abdallah. Forgive my father - I hear. -

Selim.

You shall marry you.

Abdallah. Your bid is my will.

Selim. Abubeker the noble daughter.

Abdallah.

You want it and she is my wife.

Selim. This obedience I expected from you, my son. Abdallah is his father's love not repay with ingratitude.

Abdallah.
No, never my father.

Selim. You love not, my son?

Abdallah. I love only you and Omar. -

Selim. Let this child's love never go out in your breast. - Abubeker daughter - or my curse!

Selim
saw him with a piercing halberzürnenden look that Abdullah did not understand. It was a cold
solid look that is indelibly marked with the terrible curse words grub in Abdallah's memory,
this looks like a flash of lightning suddenly turned the strange Ignorance of Omar in his soul,
- when he entered.

He saw to it again and it was quite old, friendly, well-known Omar, and he went away happy and
all his anxious fears were gone.

Chapter Five.

Abubeker now "also appeared in the room with him and several of his
and Selim's friends.

Abubeker was an old man of seventy years, his face was long and gaunt, his eyes gently and his
silver-white beard fell on his venerable breast. For a long time was he died the world, without
that he or she missed him and he lived with his daughter in a domestic solitude, only known
by his friends and honored. He was in the field brought up and become an old man under the armor,
the enemy had feared his bravery and in his manhood Abubeker name was known throughout the land,
but with the services of the commander also disappears the thanks
of the people, the glory is like the fog that wraps itself apart over
the whole milieu and stretched the furthest, disappears.

In the camp and in battle Abubeker had his spirit can only make little
he thought only gradually and steadfastly insisted on each formed
an opinion, his every Convictions, he was reluctant to take a new
and put in its place: for that wherein He had once thought he seemed
the only and final truth.

Selim bewillkommte him and his companions, and all sat down.

A brief silence was staying on the Assembly, as Selim stood up at last, Abubeker hand seized
and taken as a sacred fire, which went on:

Abubeker, you are my friend and what's more, an honest man, you're the all of you are present,
and would be one among us who wore not this great feeling in his bosom, the removed himself before
I speak further, because my words are good for no ignoble ear. - But no, - the noblest men of
the State gathered here and therefore should boldly my thoughts and words are all the same way
transform. For the Biederman Biedermann must without circumlocution To speak and that fact
was the cause of my invitation.

All were silent; Selim stood and looked around in the Assembly, he continued:

Abubeker, perhaps you remember the golden days when the scepter of the wise Alfargo this country,
dominated as an everlasting peace on the frontiers of the empire controlled as a unbreakable loyalty
all subjects in a beautiful ribbon and the united arms of the prince
Was when the luck was living in our homes, as - what the beautiful
memories, friends? this Time was and is no more, the sun ray that
shakes shy of the prison walls, makes the prisoner to prison close,
this memory is to us what the lost wanderer in the stormy night the
light extinguished.

We were happy to jump from the thought the sad conviction that we are unhappy! - Like the
storm, the air hangs heavy and pressured over our country, the workers have left fearful hide
the field and in caves, the grass trembles softly the coming storm, all nature breathes heavily
and waiting with anxious impatience the collapsing weather. - This is the image of our country,
Friends, smiles, no face, that shines as the foolish children, no eye, as the Eye of the dying,
no joy laughing sad heart - sad, with drooping Head, absorbed in
ourselves, by any sense out of our cheerful black dreams awakened,
stand, we rely on a sharp, meerumheulten cliff and sue in the wild
noise the lake. - And why our tears, hanging as heavy in the red with
weeping eyes songs?

Why suppressed sighs swell our hearts so high? - Are the gentle fields around us Deserts of sand
now? Brings out the sun no longer her coat on this realm? Depends a consuming disease over
our heads? Our friends are different? -

Oh yes, our friends are different, a plague wild looks down on us,
the sun is We went down and the flower of our corridors is gone!

A lovely morning Roth played in the cheerful sound of the waves around us, the tide falls back
and our boat is on a dry rocky ground in brackets. - Fortune has served us his hand to eternal
farewell and we see displeasure to his departure. - And consoles us because of our no substitute
Loss and we are not even eager, to learn the cause of our misery?

O all-good to let your actions do not penetrate, for he is not angry, the generous nature has
no bare hand is stretched out over us. - But what about human violence constricted our hearts so powerfully
together? Anyone who proposes this darkening vault around us? - O that I must say it schaamroth,
- a stranger would mock amazement our weakness, - A man!

Him carry our fields, it flows back as a greedy sea, all our work, we live only for him, for the only
one fight in all our useless armed forces. - Him have you, the ungrateful, your battles fought, Abubeker,
it is the plague that the country consumed behind his throne is our sun has, in his terrible
omnipotence is the death of all of our friends. - Life and death he has to distort the balance,
his moods swaying our happiness depends, storm thundering from his angry eyes, the smile of
his mouth is our refreshing spring sunshine, his words of eternal
immutable Laws - we stand there and feel that we are miserable, and
o the shame! - We content us so that we feel it!

Are we all so deeply sunk in weakness that we do not even complain too? Have we become so strange
that we do not even change our fate? That we are content with what he throws us back from the
devastation and look forward to the grace which we still under the rubble of our previous
home convert granted? The wounded snake enraged the heel of her killer, the innocent dove struggling
helplessly against the destroyer their nest, so the worm writhes in anger trampled under the foot of
the traveler - and we! - Who is the indecency that was not ashamed
of the chains and they liked his Poor brushing? - Would it go and
tell my speech, Ali!

Slave and free citizens are equal in our time, the kingdom has only one free, we are all his slaves,
the country and its people have perished in the One, our wishes kneel before his will, the high
right that every person brings to the world we have squandered on these scammers. Our existence,
we can not call life, we are dead masses without own will, stones,
a wanton boy to play work in the evening throws it into the sea. -
- And who is this Noble?

A giant with brazen body of the broken any steel rebounds? - No, a collection of dust, like
us, uplifted by a Arm plunged to the ground forever.

Where is the courage of our fathers fought in and shake the enemy doing? If all the daggers dull?
Is no one who takes up arms and avenge himself and his brothers? No one? - Oh, I was wrong, I
forgot that I live jetzo here, now, where slavery intact, where our greatest wish is the most
shameful of his slaves. - The time has its circle made and taken away all that is noble in our
years, she has only me unhappy lonely leave.

He was silent. - The men were glowing, the arms of young men twitched involuntarily. In many
Eye was the tear of high enthusiasm, many wanted to jump up and wave their daggers, as the wise
Abubeker slow deliberate voice that is saying:

Selim, your voice is the voice of truth, the kingdom is unfortunate, there is tyranny violence
with fraudulently obtained from her throne, the people groaning under the iron tiefgebückt
Yoke - but hear me as a friend and be angry. - I'm on a high peak, which I see on so many
years, which are spread at my feet, age and the experience comes at last to the place of wisdom.
- Have you never, Selim, a flood seen the devastating floods the plains, and fertilized and
fertile leaves again? One tribe, the burning of the flash and a more beautiful from the ashes
with renewed vigor shoot out? - In the current evil is often the birth of a future happiness,
only that the mortal eye does not penetrate the darkness of the future, that our little eye only
includes what is before us, not what is often close by. - Already sent many nations the Lord
to chastise an iron scepter and many already knew the ameliorating
hand. - Ali is perhaps only the messenger of a higher power, the war
on us from there announced: we can get up rebellious against the Lord
and his wise master plan and discard?

It behooves the slave, to draw his master to account? - About servant listen to accomplish the commandment
of the infinite and the orders of his wrath. It may only wave, and Ali is pierced by lightning,
storm-torn.

He over the earth from their to raise fishing, and discontent with the breath of his mouth against
the limits of the universe to , Dash - and it should not send down
a dust to dust again, if it be Will be? - No, we do not tolerate,
Selim, and show our great soul in patience.

Revenge only roars from the animals, humans endure and forgive! -

O
old man! cried Selim, the age that consumed all our forces, speaks
of you.

Of hours you have to live, you are too few to act for them - but our children; Abubeker!

Abubeker.

She does not wake on the big eye that never closes? - Let her virtue
and worship God and they can not be miserable.

Selim turned away angrily and Omar began to speak:

You spoke with
great wisdom, Abubeker, the hand draws from the clouds often seen
the fates the people, the dark fate is often out of his darkness,
and even forces the boldest skeptic to shuddering admiration.

Selim.
And you, Omar? the first draft you broke my big test for maturity?

Omar.
Often, however, prevails in the omnipotence of their impenetrability
and storage before the cheeky Eyes darkness around him. But from the moment I saw you I took a fancy
to you, so if you agree, we might be married and might live together like princes, because
I have great riches.'

The youth could not but be tempted with the beautiful maiden's offer, but he remembered how
the birds had called her the witch, and their warning always sounded in his ears. Therefore
he answered cautiously, 'Do not be angry, dear maiden, if I do not decide immediately on this
important matter. Give me a few days to consider before we come to an understanding.'

'Why not?' answered the maiden. 'Take some weeks to consider if you like, and take counsel
with your own heart.' And to make the time pass pleasantly, she took the youth over every part
of her beautiful dwelling, and showed him all her splendid treasures. But these treasures were
all produced by enchantment, for the maiden could make anything she wished appear by the help
of King Solomon's signet ring; only none of these things remained fixed; they passed away like
the wind without leaving a trace behind. But the youth did not know this; he thought they were
all real.

One day the maiden took him into a secret chamber, where a little gold box was standing on
a silver table. Pointing to the box, she said, 'Here is my greatest treasure, whose like is
not to be found in the whole world. It is a precious gold ring. When you marry me, I will give
you this ring as a marriage gift, and it will make you the happiest of mortal men. But in order
that our love may last for ever, you must give me for the ring three drops of blood from the
little finger of your left hand.'

When the youth heard these words a cold shudder ran over him, for he remembered that his soul
was at stake. He was cunning enough, however, to conceal his feelings and to make no direct
answer, but he only asked the maiden, as if carelessly, what was remarkable about the ring?

She answered, 'No mortal is able entirely to understand the power of this ring, because no
one thoroughly understands the secret signs engraved upon it. But even with my half-knowledge
I can work great wonders. If I put the ring upon the little finger of my left hand, then I
can fly like a bird through the air wherever I wish to go. If I put it on the third finger
of my left hand I am invisible, and I can see everything that passes around me, though no one
can see me. If I put the ring upon the middle finger of my left hand, then neither fire nor
water nor any sharp weapon can hurt me. If I put it on the forefinger of my left hand, then
I can with its help produce whatever I wish. I can in a single moment build houses or anything
I desire. Finally, as long as I wear the ring on the thumb of my left hand, that hand is so
strong that it can break down rocks and walls. Besides these, the ring has other secret signs
which, as I said, no one can understand. No doubt it contains secrets of great importance.
The ring formerly belonged to King Solomon, the wisest of kings, during whose reign the wisest
men lived. But it is not known whether this ring was ever made by mortal hands: it is supposed
that an angel gave it to the wise King.'

When the youth heard all this he determined to try and get possession of the ring, though he
did not quite believe in all its wonderful gifts. He wished the maiden would let him have it
in his hand, but he did not quite like to ask her to do so, and after a while she put it back
into the box. A few days after they were again speaking of the magic ring, and the youth said,
'I do not think it possible that the ring can have all the power you say it has.'

Then the maiden opened the box and took the ring out, and it glittered as she held it like
the clearest sunbeam. She put it on the middle finger of her left hand, and told the youth
to take a knife and try as hard as he could to cut her with it, for he would not be able to
hurt her. He was unwilling at first, but the maiden insisted. Then he tried, at first only
in play, and then seriously, to strike her with the knife, but an invisible wall of iron seemed
to be between them, and the maiden stood before him laughing and unhurt. Then she put the ring
on her third finger, and in an instant she had vanished from his eyes. Presently she was beside
him again laughing, and holding the ring between her fingers.

'Do let me try,' said the youth, 'whether I can do these wonderful things.'

The maiden, suspecting no treachery, gave him the magic ring.

The youth pretended to have forgotten what to do, and asked what finger he must put the ring
on so that no sharp weapon could hurt him?'

'Oh, the middle finger of your left hand,' the maiden answered, laughing.

She took the knife and tried to strike the youth, and he even tried to cut himself with it,
but found it impossible. Then he asked the maiden to show him how to split stones and rocks
with the help of the ring. So she led him into a courtyard where stood a great boulder-stone.
'Now,' she said, 'put the ring upon the thumb of your left hand, and you will see how strong
that hand has become. The youth did so, and found to his astonishment that with a single blow
of his fist the stone flew into a thousand pieces. Then the youth bethought him that he who
does not use his luck when he has it is a fool, and that this was a chance which once lost
might never return. So while they stood laughing at the shattered stone he placed the ring,
as if in play, upon the third finger of his left hand.

'Now,' said the maiden, 'you are invisible to me until you take the ring off again.'

But the youth had no mind to do that; on the contrary, he went farther off, then put the ring
on the little finger of his left hand, and soared into the air like a bird.

When the maiden saw him flying away she thought at first that he was still in play, and cried,
'Come back, friend, for now you see I have told you the truth.' But the young man never came back.

Then the maiden saw she was deceived, and bitterly repented that she had ever trusted him with
the ring.

The young man never halted in his flight until he reached the dwelling of the wise magician
who had taught him the speech of birds. The magician was delighted to find that his search
had been successful, and at once set to work to interpret the secret signs engraved upon the
ring, but it took him seven weeks to make them out clearly. Then he gave the youth the following
instructions how to overcome the Dragon of the North: 'You must have an iron horse cast, which
must have little wheels under each foot. You must also be armed with a spear two fathoms long,
which you will be able to wield by means of the magic ring upon your left thumb. The spear
must be as thick in the middle as a large tree, and both its ends must be sharp. In the middle
of the spear you must have two strong chains ten fathoms in length. As soon as the Dragon has
made himself fast to the spear, which you must thrust through his jaws, you must spring quickly
from the iron horse and fasten the ends of the chains firmly to the ground with iron stakes,
so that he cannot get away from them. After two or three days the monster's strength will be
so far exhausted that you will be able to come near him. Then you can put Solomon's ring upon
your left thumb and give him the finishing stroke, but keep the ring on your third finger until
you have come close to him, so that the monster cannot see you, else he might strike you dead
with his long tail. But when all is done, take care you do not lose the ring, and that no one
takes it from you by cunning.'

The young man thanked the magician for his directions, and promised, should they succeed, to
reward him. But the magician answered, 'I have profited so much by the wisdom the ring has
taught me that I desire no other reward.' Then they parted, and the youth quickly flew home
through the air. After remaining in his own home for some weeks, he heard people say that the
terrible Dragon of the North was not far off, and might shortly be expected in the country. In the "Powder Tower," it came two
Maid contrary, with large shopping baskets, laughing and chatting, and her eyes were so fresh
and wakes up, her clothes and aprons still stiff from sheer Neusein. A little further overtook him
two infantry soldiers. They walked out at attention, her step worked in gay Bars on the pavement,
and the buttons of their tunics stole the early sun rays and they threw the Bohush boldly
into the sleepy eyes. Then some whistling a spirited Baker boy the hunchback in the face and
laughed loudly after him, and a policeman sang something, while the feathers of his hat, waved
a little. Blinds rustling on the plate-glass windows and gave themselves entirely to the sun
and burning in white flames. By This fresh, joyful revival of Conjoined crawled, pale, degenerate,
with all munched Shirt, and dirty clothes, and he was like a poisonous, horrible toad, which is in
the middle found in sweet-scented flower beds. He knew nothing of all the brilliance, but that
he was disturbed, yes he did, perhaps not think it was spring and the future. The more mature,
however, this morning became, the more noticed a certain restlessness that showed all men. People
who a day at this hour saluted without speaking to each other, stopped, made anxious or surprised
faces, shrugged their shoulders and finally expressed with a specific gratitude to conventional
hands are at ten paces stopped again. They had obviously a need to communicate something As
for all and interested. At the corner of Ferdinand Street read a porter in a circle of men
and maids a place of "Tschesky curir," and went a bit further, an older gentleman from a coffee
house and said to his companion in German: "Very dangerous people should have this one ..." What's
not to was to not understand. The Lord was very self-conscious in a very shiny Shoes on and the younger
one next to him nodded at every word confirmed it humbly, he seemed to be all the same opinion. When
it came Bohush in the vicinity of the National, recognized Norinski it behind a window, the others who
could not see anything in his heroic nature seemed to explain. Hesitated for a while the hunchback.
Then he joined not but the quay went down to his apartment. He was tired.

Norinski was, however, came to an end. He drank his coffee pose a lavish - it should not have
to be a poisoned chalice - and said large: None of you "will say
I am not a good Czech.

And I'll no opportunity unused leave, the to convince Germans miserable otherwise. Should I come
only once a. I want the Lord put your head already prepared. But these stories you must not
exaggerate Sun That's nothing. They are childish, you can believe me. "He got up, stayed his
breakfast guilty, gave away the generous, three-act handshakes and went heads held high over
to his wardrobe. Those who remained moved together intimate, Karas started and the various
newspaper articles read very short, which refer to the incident related. All about saying the
same thing: the police were by the display of Woman a league of young people, students and artisans,
have the germ, which in the cellars of a house of secret meetings Jerome Lane prevented, which
were treasonable speeches on the agenda.
 In this distress, the King's son-in-law resolved to seek help once more from the Eastern
magician, to whom he at once travelled through the air like a bird by the help of the ring.
But there is a proverb which says that ill-gotten gains never prosper, and the Prince found
that the stolen ring brought him ill-luck after all. The Witch-maiden had never rested night
nor day until she had found out where the ring was. As soon as she had discovered by means
of magical arts that the Prince in the form of a bird was on his way to the Eastern magician,
she changed herself into an eagle and watched in the air until the bird she was waiting for
came in sight, for she knew him at once by the ring which was hung round his neck by a ribbon.
Then the eagle pounced upon the bird, and the moment she seized him in her talons she tore
the ring from his neck before the man in bird's shape had time to prevent her. Then the eagle
flew down to the earth with her prey, and the two stood face to face once more in human form.

'Now, villain, you are in my power!' cried the Witch-maiden. 'I favoured you with my love,
and you repaid me with treachery and theft. You stole my most precious jewel from me, and do
you expect to live happily as the King's son-in-law? Now the tables are turned; you are in
my power, and I will be revenged on you for your crimes.'

'Forgive me! forgive me!' cried the Prince; 'I know too well how deeply I have wronged you,
and most heartily do I repent it.'

The maiden answered, 'Your prayers and your repentance come too late, and if I were to spare
you everyone would think me a fool. You have doubly wronged me; first you scorned my love,
and then you stole my ring, and you must bear the punishment.'

With these words she put the ring upon her left thumb, lifted the young man with one hand,
and walked away with him under her arm. This time she did not take him to a splendid palace,
but to a deep cave in a rock, where there were chains hanging from the wall. The maiden now
chained the young man's hands and feet so that he could not escape; then she said in an angry
voice, 'Here you shall remain chained up until you die. I will bring you every day enough food
to prevent you dying of hunger, but you need never hope for freedom any more.' With these words
she left him.

The old King and his daughter waited anxiously for many weeks for the Prince's return, but
no news of him arrived. The King's daughter often dreamed that her husband was going through
some great suffering: she therefore begged her father to summon all the enchanters and magicians,
that they might try to find out where the Prince was and how he could be set free. But the
magicians, with all their arts, could find out nothing, except that he was still living and
undergoing great suffering; but none could tell where he was to be found. At last a celebrated
magician from Finland was brought before the King, who had found out that the King's son-in-law
was imprisoned in the East, not by men, but by some more powerful being. The King now sent
messengers to the East to look for his son-in-law, and they by good luck met with the old magician
who had interpreted the signs on King Solomon's ring, and thus was possessed of more wisdom
than anyone else in the world. The magician soon found out what he wished to know, and pointed
out the place where the Prince was imprisoned, but said: 'He is kept there by enchantment,
and cannot be set free without my help. I will therefore go with you myself.'

So they all set out, guided by birds, and after some days came to the cave where the unfortunate
Prince had been chained up for nearly seven years. He recognised the magician immediately,
but the old man did not know him, he had grown so thin. However, he undid the chains by the
help of magic, and took care of the Prince until he recovered and became strong enough to travel.
When he reached home he found that the old King had died that morning, so that he was now raised
to the throne. And now after his long suffering came prosperity, which lasted to the end of
his life; but he never got back the magic ring, nor has it ever again been seen by mortal eyes.

Now, if YOU had been the Prince, would you not rather have stayed with the pretty witch-maiden?

STORY OF THE EMPEROR'S NEW CLOTHES(4)

(4) Andersen.

Many years ago there lived an Emperor who was so fond of new clothes that he spent all his
money on them in order to be beautifully dressed. One day two impostors arrived who gave themselves
out as weavers, and said that they knew how to manufacture the most beautiful cloth imaginable.

'Those must indeed be splendid clothes,' thought the Emperor. 'If I had them on I could find
out which men in my kingdom are unfit for the offices they hold; I could distinguish the wise
from the stupid! Yes, this cloth must be woven for me at once.' And he gave both the impostors
much money, so that they might begin their work.

They placed two weaving-looms, and began to do as if they were working, but they had not the
least thing on the looms. But he remembered when he thought about it that whoever was stupid
or not fit for his office would not be able to see it. Now he certainly believed that he had
nothing to fear for himself, but he wanted first to send somebody else in order to see how
he stood with regard to his office. Everybody in the whole town knew what a wonderful power
the cloth had, and they were all curious to see how bad or how stupid their neighbour was.

'I will send my old and honoured minister to the weavers,' thought the Emperor. 'He can judge
best what the cloth is like, for he has intellect, and no one understands his office better
than he.'

Now the good old minister went into the hall where the two impostors sat working at the empty
weaving-looms. 'Dear me!' thought the old minister, opening his eyes wide, 'I can see nothing!'
But he did not say so.

Both the impostors begged him to be so kind as to step closer, and asked him if it were not
a beautiful texture and lovely colours. They pointed to the empty loom, and the poor old minister
went forward rubbing his eyes; but he could see nothing, for there was nothing there.

'Dear, dear!' thought he, 'can I be stupid? People thought this way the connections between the great rivers to explain Acuña of which
brought the first news of the mouth of the Rio Negro, and they had no idea Jupura that the continuation
of the Caqueta sey. Sometimes allowed to leave out the name of Caqueta and called the river,
which forks, Rio Paria Yuyapari or, as the Orinoco was formerly called. DE L'ISLE did in his
last time the Caqueta no longer forks, to the great annoyance LA CONDAMINES he made the Putumayo,
the Jupura and Rio Negro rivers completely independent, and when he would cut off all prospect
of a connection between the Orinoco and Rio Negro, he drew between the two streams a high mountain
range. Already had the same Father FRITZ System and the time of the Hondius, it was the most
likely.

LA Travel CONDAMINE, distributed over the various lines of America has so much light, in the whole
matter of the course of Caqueta, Orinoco and Rio Negro even more confusion brought. The famous
scholar, however, saw clearly that the Caqueta (at Mocoa) of the river is is called on the Amazon
Jupura, yet he took not only to SANSON hypothesis, he brought the number of fork-divisions of the
Caqueta even to three. Through the first one is the Caqueta Arm (the Jaoya) from the Putumayo,
a second is the Rio and the Rio Paragua Jupura; in a third of the Rio Paragua divides into two
rivers, the Orinoco and the Rio Negro. This purely fictitious system one looks nicer in the
first edition of D'Anville's Map of America represented. It follows from the fact that the Rio
Negro from the Orinoco below the great cataracts going on, and that in order to get at the mouth
of the Guaviare, Caqueta the the bifurcation from which the Rio Jupura arises, must go up.
Upon learning La Condamine, that the Orinoco not at the foot of the Andes of Pasto, but on
the back of the mountains of Cayenne sprang from, he changed his ideas from a very ingenious
way. The Rio Negro is no longer from the Orinoco, Guaviare, Atabapo, Cassiquiare and the mouth
the Inirida (under the name Iniricha) appeared about to D'Anville other book in her own form,
but from the third bend of the Caqueta and the result of the Inirida Rio Negro; This system has
been welcomed by Father Caulin well represented on the map of LA CRUZ and copied on all cards until
the early nineteenth century. These names: Caqueta, Orinoco, Inirida have, however, not so much
attractive, as the rivers in the interior Nigritiens; It just does not make the historical memories,
but the many combinations the geographer of the new world remember the curly drawings of the course
of the Niger, the White Nile, the Gambaro, the Joliba and Zaire. From year to year, the range
of hypotheses in size from, the problems are taken and flush the old piece of geography that one speculative,
could not to say divinatory geography call pulls in more and more limited together.

So not the Caqueta, but on the Rio Negro Guainia or can you precise
information about the Sources of the latter will flow.

The Indians in the missions Maroa, Tomo and San Carlos know nothing of the upper joint of
the Guainia Jupura. I have the breadth measured at the hill of San Agostino, it gave 292 fathoms,
(68) the average width was 200-250 fathoms. LA CONDAMINE appreciates the same in the vicinity
of the mouth in the Amazon at the narrowest point to 1200 toises, and the river would be on
a run of 10 degrees in straight line by 1000 toises broader. Although the mass of water between them
as we Maroa and San Carlos saw pretty much, the Indians sure yet, Guainia sprang from the
five days' journey by sea northwest of the mouth of the Pimichin bergigten in a land where the
sources of the Inirida lie. Since one of the Cassiquiare San Carlos to the point of bifurcation
on the Orinoco in 10 - driving up 11 days, so are five-day mountain trip for a long time not
as strong currents to about one degree Take 20 minutes in a straight line, so the sources of
Guainia, according to my observations of length Javita and in San Carlos, in 71 ° 35 'to lie west
of the meridian of Paris came from. Although the testimony of the natives are entirely consistent,
the sources probably even more to the west, because the canoes come up only as far as the river bed allows.
After Analogy of Europe's rivers can be the relation between the width and length of upper Flußstücks
(69) judge not. In America often take the mass of water in the rivers for short distances at
very striking.

The Guainia is in its upper course chiefly distinguished by the fact that he has no curvature
has, it appears like a broad channel that is pulled through a dense
forest.

Whenever the River changed the direction of an equally long stretch of water located in front
of the eye. The banks are high, but rocky and very rare. enforce the granite, the huge quartz
veins, is usually only the middle of the bed days. If you drive up the Guainia to northwest, then
the flow tearing with each day's journey. The river banks are uninhabited, until the close
of the sources (las cavezeras), in bergigten land, house or the Manivas Poignaves Indians. The sources
of Inirida (Iniricha) are, according to the statement of the Indians, only 2 - 3 miles from
those of Guainia and it could be there to create a support space. Father Caulin Cabruta heard
from the mouth an Indian chief's name Tapo, the Inirida Sey very close to the Patavita (Paddavida
Map of LA CRUZ), which is a tributary of the Rio Negro. The natives on the upper Guainia not
know this name, any more than a lake (Laguna del Rio Negro), the occurs on old Portuguese maps.
That allegation is probably Rio Patavita nothing but the Guainia of the Indians in Maroa,
for as long as the geographers at the bifurcation of Caqueta believed they left the Rio Negro
arising from this arm and a river, the they called Patavita. According to the report of the
natives are the mountains at the sources of Inirida Guainia and not higher than the Baraguan that
is high in my measuring 120 toises.

Portuguese hand-written cards that in recent times in the hydrographic
Depot to Rio Janeiro have been designed to confirm what I put in place
in experience.

Enter any of the four compounds of Caqueta and the Japura Guainia (Rio Negro), the Inirida, the
Uaupes (Guapue) and in the Putumayo and are, in each of these tributaries represent as an independent
power, they omit the Rio Patavita and set the sources of Guainia only 2 ° 15 'west from the
meridian of Javita. The Rio Uaupes, a tributary of Guainia, seems to come from much farther
west than the Guainia itself, and its direction is such that are not in the upper arm of the
Caqueta Guainia could without cutting it. I bring To conclude this discussion with a proof that
speaks directly to the acceptance, after which Guainia of how the Guaviare and Caqueta, on the
eastern slopes of the Cordillera of the Andes rise should.

During my stay in Popayan gave me the Gardian of Franciskanerklosters, Fray Francisco Pugnet, an amiable,
sensible man, reliable communications on the Adaquies missions, in
which he has long lived.

The father had a difficult journey of Caqueta taken to Guaviare. Since Philipp von Hutten (Urre)
and the first time the conquest was not a European country came through this unknown. Father
came from Pugnet Mission Caguan the river of that name, which falls in the Caqueta, a vast, completely
treeless savannah, live in the eastern lines and the Tamas Coreguajes Indians. After six days'
march north, he came in a little place called Aramo on Guayavero, such as 15 miles west of
the point where the form Guayavero and Ariari large Guaviarestrom. Aramo is the most going to
the West village of the missions of San Juan de los Llanos. Father Pugnet heard there of the
great cataracts of the Rio Guaviare (no doubt the same, the President of the missions of the Orinoco
River on its journey from San Fernando de Apure the Guaviare looked up, see Vol III. Page 296),
but he came between Caguan and Aramo not have a river. So it is proved that under the 75th Degrees
of length, 40 miles from the slopes of the Cordilleras in the midst of the Llanos neither Rio
Negro (Patavita, Guainia) nor Guapue (Uaupes) nor Inirida related to, and that these three rivers
are east of that meridian. This information are of great value, for in the interior of Africa is
almost as confused as the geography here between the Atabapo and the sources of the Meta, Guaviare
and Caqueta. "You hardly believe it," CALDAS says in a scientific journal, published in Santa
Fe de Bogota, "that we do not have a map of the plains, beginning on the eastern slopes of the mountains,
we a day in front of them and where are the chapels of Guadeloupe and Monserrate. No man know
how wide are the Cordilleras, even as the rivers run in the Orinoco and the Amazon covered,
and yet one day be in better times just on these tributaries, the Meta, the Guaviare, the Rio
Negro, the Caqueta, Cundinamarca with the people of Brazil Paraguay and run. "

I know that in the missions of Andaquies fairly widely held belief that Caqueta give between
the influence of the Rio Fragua and Caguan an arm of the Putumayo, and down below, below the mouth
of the Rio Payoya, another of the Orinoco; but this opinion is based only on a vague forecast of
the Indians, who often carry some confused and fork divisions.

Because of the cataracts at the mouth of Payoya and wild Huaques Indians, also "Murcielagos"
(bats) because they are the prisoners of the blood suck, the Spanish missionaries not go down
the Caqueta. Never has a white Man the way from San Miguel de Mocoa the influence of Caqueta
made in the Amazon. At the last boundary commission, the Portuguese astronomers drove first to the Caqueta
at 0 ° 36 'south latitude, then the Rio de los Engaños (the treacherous river) and the Rio Cunare
covered in the Caqueta, right up to 0 ° 28 'north latitude. On this trip saw them leave no northbound
arm of Caqueta. The Amu and Yabilla, the sources They carefully studied, are little river, the
Guy in the Rio de Engaños and with this in the Caqueta . Fall So really a bifurcation takes
place, would it only on the very short Distance between the influence of Payoya and the second
cataract of the influence of the above Rio de los Engaños to look, but, I repeat, because this
river, because of the Cunare, the Apoporis and Uaupes could this alleged arm of Caqueta not
the upper Guainia . Enter Everything seems rather to point out that between the tributaries
of the Caqueta and those of the Rio Negro and Uaupes is a watershed. Still more, by barometric observation
we have for the bank of the Pimichin 130 toises found sea level. Assuming the bergigte Country
at the sources of Guainia are 50 Javita toises above, it follows that the bed of the river in
its upper reaches at least 200 toises above the sea, is only so high, when we started the Barometer
of the banks of the Amazon in Tomependa in the province of Jaen de Bracamoros found. Considering
now how much of this enormous flow of Tomependa to Meridian of 75 ° is and how far is it from
the missions of the Rio Caguan to the Cordillera, remains no doubt that the bed of the Caqueta below
the mouth of the Caguan and Payoya is much deeper than the bed of the upper Guainia to which it
a part of its water will issue. Besides, the waters of the Caqueta certainly know that the
black contrast Guainia or coffee-brown, but you have no example, that a white black river in its
course would. The upper Guainia can therefore not be-ing arm of the Caqueta. I doubt even
that one reason has to assume the Guainia, as the most distinguished and independent water tank,
come south through a side branch to some water.

The small group of mountains at the sources of Guainia, which we know is the more interesting
as they individually in the plane, which extends southwest from the Orinoco. After the length, which
they're located, you might suppose, from her go from a comb, the first the current tightness
(Angostura) forms of Guaviare and then the great cataracts of the Uaupes and Jupura. If perhaps
where the Gebirgsart likely, as in the East, granite, gold in small Parts in the soil? Are there
perhaps further south, to the Uaupes on Iquiare (Iguiari, Iguari)
and on Yurubesh (Yurubach, Urubaxi) Gold washes?

There PHILIP OF HUTTEN first sought the Dorado and provided with a handful of the people in the sixteenth
century the Omaguas much-vaunted battle. Stripped to the reports of the conquistadors of the
Fabulous, we recognize we obtained the names of places, after all, that historical truth is based.
Man follows the course of the Hutten Guaviare and the Caqueta, can be seen in the * * under Guaypes
the Cacique of the residents of Macatoa Uaupes, also called GUAP * * or Guapue, we remember
found that the Father Acuña Iquiari (Quiguiare) calls * a * flow of gold, and that fifty years
later, Father Fritz, a very credible missionary in his mission of the Yurimaguas Manaos (Manoas)
was visited, which were trimmed with gold plates and from the land between the Uaupes and Caqueta
or Jupura came. The rivers that rise on the eastern slopes of the Andes, (Eg, the Napo) cause a
lot of gold, even when their sources in Trachytgestein: why should there east of the Cordilleras
not as good gold-rich bloated country as westward in Sonora, Choco and Barbacoas? I am far from
the wealth of this land to exaggerate to do, but I do not consider myself entitled to the presence
of precious metals in primitive rocks draw of only Guyana Wherefore denied because we were
on our journey through the country can not Vein have found. It is remarkable that the natives
of the Orinoco River in their languages have a word for gold (Caraïbische Carucuru, Tamanacks Caricuri
* * * Maypures Cavitta *) while the word they use for silver, * * Prata, apparently borrowed from
the Spanish is. The news about gold-panning south and north of the Rio Uaupes that Acuña, Father
Fritz and La Condamine collected, is in line with what I read about the gold deposits in this Land
brought in experience. So strong is also the traffic among the peoples of the Orinoco River may think,
before the arrival of Europeans, they still have their gold, certainly not from the eastern slope
of the Cordilleras fetched. This slope is low in iron mines, especially on those that already
Ancient times were in operation, it consists of the provinces of Popayan, Pasto and Quito almost
of volcanic rock. Probably the gold came to Guyana from the land east of the Andes. was still
in our day in a ravine on the mission Encaramada a gold boulder found, and we may not be surprised
that as soon as the Europeans in these solitudes settle down, less of gold, tin, gold dust,
and heard her speak of jade amulets, the to procure earlier by the Caribs and other nomadic peoples
in the barter could. The precious metals were the Orinoco River, Rio Negro and Amazon, never very
common, and they disappear almost as soon as the breeding in the missions of the movement of
natives power over long distances to an end.

At the upper Guainia the climate is not so hot, maybe a little less humid than at Tuamini. I
found the water of the Rio Negro in May 23 °, 9 [19 °, 2 Reaumur] warm, while the thermometer in the
air in the daytime to 22 °, 7 at night to 21 °, 8 stand. This coolness of the water, almost
is also observed in Congofluß is so close to the equator (1 ° 53 'to 2 ° 15' north Width) is
very striking. The Orinoco is between the fourth and eighth degree of latitude usually 27 °, 5
to 29 °, 5 warm. The sources that are used in the granite have Maypures, 27 °, 8 This to decrease
the heat from the equator agrees remarkably with the hypotheses of some of the physicists
Antiquity, (70) however, it is only a local phenomenon and not a
result of both the Elevation, of the county, rather than the constantly-covered,
rainy sky, the Moisture of the soil, the dense woods, the strong smell
of the plants and the fact that no sandy shore attracts the heat and
radiation reflecting material on its own.

The Influence of a related sky appears to be relatively clear at the coast in Peru, where never Rain
falls and the sun is a big part of the year, at the time of Garoua * * (fog), the naked eye
as the moon appears. There, between the 10th and 12 Degrees south latitude is the average temperature
barely higher than in Algiers and Cairo. On the Rio Negro it rains almost All year, except December
and January, and sees himself in the dry season to the blue of the sky rarely two or three days
in a row. appears in clear air the greater the heat, otherwise, the year the inhabitants complain
of frost at night, although the temperature is still 21 °. I asked in San Carlos, as before,
in Javita, Observations on the amount of rain that falls in a given time. These studies are relevant
when it is acting like this, the enormous swelling of the rivers in the vicinity to explain
the equator, from which it was long believed to be with the Cordilleras Snow-fed water. I looked at
different times in 2 hours and 7.5 lines, in 3 hours 18 lines, drop lines in 9 hours 48.2 rain.
As it continued raining incessantly (the rain is fine, but very tight), so I do not think a year
in these forests, well-informed 90-100 inches of water fall. So very much Diess may seem,
then this Estimate but through the careful observation of the engineer colonels COSTANZO in New
Spain confirmed. In Vera Cruz were alone in the months of July, August and September, 35 inches
2 lines, all year 62 inches 2 lines rain water, but between the climate of the arid, barren Mexican
Coastlines and the climate in the woods is a big difference. falls on those shores in the Months
of December and January, not a drop of rain in February, April and May, usually only 2 to 2.3 Inches,
in San Carlos, however, it is nine, ten months after the other, as if the air is dissolved in water.
This would wet climates without evaporation and the withdrawal the water of the soil during the
year covered with a layer of water 8 feet high. This Aequatorialregen, which feed the majestic
rivers of America are from electrical Discharges accompanied, and while at the end of the
same continent, on the west coast of Greenland (71) in five and six years not once hear thunder
rage, near the equator the storm day, almost day. The simultaneity of the electrical discharges
and the rain supported by no means the old hypothesis that through the air link forms of oxygen
and hydrogen of water. It has up to 3600 toises high hydrogen vain sought. The amount of water
contained in saturated air increases from 20 to 25 degrees far more rapidly than from 10 to 15 degrees.
Under the hot zone is, therefore, if the air cools to a single degree, far more visible than in the
temperate water vapor. One of the currents constantly renewed air can therefore provide all water used
in Aequatorialregen the falls and the physicist seems so amazingly great.

The water of the Rio Negro (at reflektirtem light) of darker color than that of Atabapo and
Tuamini. Yes, the white water mass, which brings in the Cassiquiare changes below the hill of
San Carlos as little of the color, it struck me. The author of the choreography modern du Brésil
quite rightly says, the river was everywhere he is not deep Sey, an amber color, where the
water is very deep Sey, it appears dark brown, like coffee grounds. Nor does * * Curana, as
the natives call the lower Guainia, black water. The Association of Guainia or Rio Negro is the Amazon
River in the government of Brazil for Gran- such an important moment that the Rio the Amazon west of
the Rio Negro's name stores and now Rio dos Solimöes is (actually Sorimöes, alluding to the poison
of the Nation The hired to). Ucayale west of the Amazon River takes the name of Rio Maranhao or Marañon
at. The banks of the upper Guainia are on the whole much less populated by water birds as that
of Cassiquiare, Meta and Arauca, where the most ornithologists yield for the European Collections
found. That these animals are so rare, no doubt, stems from the fact that the current no shallows
and shores has no job, just as on the nature of black water, see the (perhaps because of its
purity), aquatic insects and fish, less food.

Despite which nourish the Indians in this district twice a year by migrating birds, which on
its long walk on the banks of the Rio Negro rest. If the Orinoco River begins to rise, so after
the spring equinox day, pull the ducks (Patos careteros) in immense Swarms of 8 to 3 Degrees north
on 1 to 4 Degrees south latitude to the south-southeast. These animals leave at this time the valley of
the Orinoco, no doubt because, if the Water rises and overflowed the banks, no fish, aquatic
insects and worms catch more can. They were killed by the thousands when they go on the Rio
Negro. On the hike the equator, they are very fat and tasty, but in September, when the Orinoco
is and steps back into bed, pull the ducks, whether it is the reputation of the most experienced
birds to driving, or that inner feeling, which we call instinct, because it can not be explained
is from the Amazon and Rio Branco north again. They are too thin, but that the Indians on the Rio
Negro were lusting after that, and they escape their snares more so, since a Heron (Gavan) travels
with them, which gives an excellent food. So eat for the natives in March, ducks, herons in September.
They could not tell us what * From the * Gavan, when the Orinoco has withdrawn, and why they
careteros the Patos accompany them on their migration from the Orinoco to the Rio Branco do not. This
regular drag the birds from a lines of the tropics in the other, in a zone all year round has
the same temperature, a rather striking appearance. Then come every year, when discharged into
Terra Firma, the major rivers, many flocks of water birds from the Orinoco and its tributaries
to the southern coasts of the Antilles. One must assume that in the tropics the change from
dry and wet conditions on the habits of animals has the same influence as in our clime significant
temperature changes. The sun's heat and the insects hunting lure in the northern countries
of the United States and Canada until the hummingbirds Latitude of Paris and Berlin up, same as
the fish pulls the lighter-footed birds and stilt walkers from north to south, from the Orinoco
to the Amazon. Nothing is more wonderful, and geographical relationship still as dark as the
migrations of birds according to their direction, its scope and its ultimate goal.


When she had washed up the next evening she bit the second nut, and there was a still more
beautiful dress inside. When the bride saw it she wanted to buy it also. But the maid did not
want money, and asked that she should sleep again by the Prince's door. The bride, however,
gave him a sleeping-draught, and he slept so soundly that he heard nothing.

And when she had washed up on the third night she bit the third nut, and there was a still
more beautiful dress inside that was made of pure gold. When the bride saw it she wanted to
have it, but the maid would only give it her on condition that she should sleep for the third
time by the Prince's door. But the Prince took care not to drink the sleeping-draught. When
she began to weep and to say, 'Dearest sweetheart, I freed you in the horrible wild wood, and
from an iron stove,' he jumped up and said, 'You are right. You are mine, and I am thine.'
Though it was still night, he got into a carriage with her, and they took the false bride's
clothes away, so that she could not follow them. When they came to the great lake they rowed
across, and when they reached the three sharp swords they sat on the plough-wheel, and on the
glassy mountain they stuck the three needles in. So they arrived at last at the little old
house, but when they stepped inside it turned into a large castle. The toads were all freed,
and were beautiful King's children, running about for joy. There they were married, and they
remained in the castle, which was much larger than that of the Princess's father's. But because
the old man did not like being left alone, they went and fetched him. So they had two kingdoms
and lived in great wealth.

          A mouse has run,
           My story's done.

THE DRAGON AND HIS GRANDMOTHER

There was once a great war, and the King had a great many soldiers, but he gave them so little
pay that they could not live upon it. Then three of them took counsel together and determined
to desert.

One of them said to the others, 'If we are caught, we shall be hanged on the gallows; how shall
we set about it?' The other said, 'Do you see that large cornfield there? If we were to hide
ourselves in that, no one could find us. The army cannot come into it, and to-morrow it is
to march on.'

They crept into the corn, but the army did not march on, but remained encamped close around
them. They sat for two days and two nights in the corn, and grew so hungry that they nearly
died; but if they were to venture out, it was certain death.

They said at last, 'What use was it our deserting? We must perish here miserably.'

Whilst they were speaking a fiery dragon came flying through the air. It hovered near them,
and asked why they were hidden there.

They answered, 'We are three soldiers, and have deserted because our pay was so small. Now
if we remain here we shall die of hunger, and if we move out we shall be strung up on the gallows.'

'If you will serve me for seven years,' said the dragon, I will lead you through the midst
of the army so that no one shall catch you.' 'We have no choice, and must take your offer,'
said they. Then the dragon seized them in his claws, took them through the air over the army,
and set them down on the earth a long way from it.

He gave them a little whip, saying, 'Whip and slash with this, and as much money as you want
will jump up before you. You can then live as great lords, keep horses, and drive about in
carriages. But after seven years you are mine.' Then he put a book before them, which he made
all three of them sign. 'I will then give you a riddle,' he said; 'if you guess it, you shall
be free and out of my power.' The dragon then flew away, and they journeyed on with their little
whip. They had as much money as they wanted, wore grand clothes, and made their way into the
world. Wherever they went they lived in merrymaking and splendour, drove about with horses
and carriages, ate and drank, but did nothing wrong.

The time passed quickly away, and when the seven years were nearly ended two of them grew terribly
anxious and frightened, but the third made light of it, saying, 'Don't be afraid, brothers,
I wasn't born yesterday; I will guess the riddle.'

They went into a field, sat down, and the two pulled long faces. An old woman passed by, and
asked them why they were so sad. 'Alas! what have you to do with it? You cannot help us.' 'Who
knows?' she answered. 'Only confide your trouble in me.'

Then they told her that they had become the servants of the Dragon for seven long years, and
how he had given them money as plentifully as blackberries; but as they had signed their names
they were his, unless when the seven years had passed they could guess a riddle. The old woman
said, 'If you would help yourselves, one of you must go into the wood, and there he will come
upon a tumble-down building of rocks which looks like a little house. He must go in, and there
he will find help.'

The two melancholy ones thought, 'That won't save us!' and they remained where they were. But
the third and merry one jumped up and went into the wood till he found the rock hut. In the
hut sat a very old woman, who was the Dragon's grandmother. She asked him how he came, and
what was his business there. He told her all that happened, and because she was pleased with
him she took compassion on him, and said she would help him.

She lifted up a large stone which lay over the cellar, saying, 'Hide yourself there; you can
hear all that is spoken in this room. Only sit still and don't stir. When the Dragon comes,
I will ask him what the riddle is, for he tells me everything; then listen carefully what he
answers.'

At midnight the Dragon flew in, and asked for his supper. His grandmother laid the table, and
brought out food and drink till he was satisfied, and they ate and drank together. Then in
the course of the conversation she asked him what he had done in the day, and how many souls
he had conquered.

'I haven't had much luck to-day,' he said, 'but I have a tight hold on three soldiers.'

'Indeed! three soldiers!' said she. 'Who cannot escape you?'

'They are mine,' answered the Dragon scornfully, 'for I shall only give them one riddle which
they will never be able to guess.'

'What sort of a riddle is it?' she asked.

'I will tell you this. In the North Sea lies a dead sea-cat--that shall be their roast meat;
and the rib of a whale--that shall be their silver spoon; and the hollow foot of a dead horse--that
shall be their wineglass.'

When the Dragon had gone to bed, his old grandmother pulled up the stone and let out the soldier.

'Did you pay attention to everything?'

'Yes,' he replied, 'I know enough, and can help myself splendidly.'

Then he went by another way through the window secretly, and in all haste back to his comrades.
He told them how the Dragon had been outwitted by his grandmother, and how he had heard from
his own lips the answer to the riddle.

Then they were all delighted and in high spirits, took out their whip, and cracked so much
money that it came jumping up from the ground. When the seven years had quite gone, the Fiend
came with his book, and, pointing at the signatures, said, 'I will take you underground with
me; you shall have a meal there. But the three soldiers took the little whip, whipped as much
money as they wanted, and lived happily to their lives end.

THE DONKEY CABBAGE

There was once a young Hunter who went boldly into the forest. He had a merry and light heart,
and as he went whistling along there came an ugly old woman, who said to him, 'Good-day, dear
hunter! You are very merry and contented, but I suffer hunger and thirst, so give me a trifle.'
The Hunter was sorry for the poor old woman, and he felt in his pocket and gave her all he
could spare. He was going on then, but the old woman stopped him and said, 'Listen, dear hunter,
to what I say. Because of your kind heart I will make you a present. Go on your way, and in
a short time you will come to a tree on which sit nine birds who have a cloak in their claws
and are quarrelling over it. Then take aim with your gun and shoot in the middle of them; they
will let the cloak fall, but one of the birds will be hit and will drop down dead. Take the
cloak with you; it is a wishing-cloak, and when you throw it on your shoulders you have only
to wish yourself at a certain place, and in the twinkling of an eye you are there. Take the
heart out of the dead bird and swallow it whole, and early every morning when you get up you
will find a gold piece under your pillow.'

The Hunter thanked the wise woman, and thought to himself 'These are splendid things she has
promised me, if only they come to pass!' So he walked on about a hundred yards, and then he
heard above him in the branches such a screaming and chirping that he looked up, and there
he saw a heap of birds tearing a cloth with their beaks and feet, shrieking, tugging, and fighting,
as if each wanted it for himself. 'Well,' said the Hunter, 'this is wonderful! It is just as
the old woman said'; and he took his gun on his shoulder, pulled the trigger, and shot into
the midst of them, so that their feathers flew about. Then the flock took flight with much
screaming, but one fell dead, and the cloak fluttered down. Then the Hunter did as the old
woman had told him: he cut open the bird, found its heart, swallowed it, and took the cloak
home with him. The next morning when he awoke he remembered the promise, and wanted to see
if it had come true. But when he lifted up his pillow, there sparkled the gold piece, and the
next morning he found another, and so on every time he got up. He collected a heap of gold,
but at last he thought to himself, 'What good is all my gold to me if I stay at home? I will
travel and look a bit about me in the world.' So he took leave of his parents, slung his hunting
knapsack and his gun round him, and journeyed into the world.

It happened that one day he went through a thick wood, and when he came to the end of it there
lay in the plain before him a large castle. At one of the windows in it stood an old woman
with a most beautiful maiden by her side, looking out. But the old woman was a witch, and she
said to the girl, 'There comes one out of the wood who has a wonderful treasure in his body
which we must manage to possess ourselves of, darling daughter; we have more right to it than
he. He has a bird's heart in him, and so every morning there lies a gold piece under his pillow.'

She told her how they could get hold of it, and how she was to coax it from him, and at last
threatened her angrily, saying, 'And if you do not obey me, you shall repent it!'

When the Hunter came nearer he saw the maiden, and said to himself, 'I have travelled so far
now that I will rest, and turn into this beautiful castle; money I have in plenty.' But the
real reason was that he had caught sight of the lovely face.

He went into the house, and was kindly received and hospitably entertained. It was not long
before he was so much in love with the witch-maiden that he thought of nothing else, and only
looked in her eyes, and whatever she wanted, that he gladly did. Then the old witch said, 'Now
we must have the bird-heart; he will not feel when it is gone.' She prepared a drink, and when
it was ready she poured it in a goblet and gave it to the maiden, who had to hand it to the hunter.

'Drink to me now, my dearest,' she said. Then he took the goblet, and when he had swallowed
the drink the bird-heart came out of his mouth. The maiden had to get hold of it secretly and
then swallow it herself, for the old witch wanted to have it. Thenceforward he found no more
gold under his pillow, and it lay under the maiden's; but he was so much in love and so much
bewitched that he thought of nothing except spending all his time with the maiden.

Then the old witch said, 'We have the bird-heart, but we must also get the wishing-cloak from him.'

The maiden answered, 'We will leave him that; he has already lost his wealth!'

The old witch grew angry, and said, 'Such a cloak is a wonderful thing, it is seldom to be
had in the world, and have it I must and will.' She beat the maiden, and said that if she did
not obey it would go ill with her.

So she did her mother's bidding, and, standing one day by the window, she looked away into
the far distance as if she were very sad.

'Why are you standing there looking so sad?' asked the Hunter.

'Alas, my love,' she replied, 'over there lies the granite mountain where the costly precious
stones grow. I have a great longing to go there, so that when I think of it I am very sad.
For who can fetch them? Only the birds who fly; a man, never.'

'If you have no other trouble,' said the Hunter, 'that one I can easily remove from your heart.'

So he wrapped her round in his cloak and wished themselves to the granite mountain, and in
an instant there they were, sitting on it! The precious stones sparkled so brightly on all
sides that it was a pleasure to see them, and they collected the most beautiful and costly
together. But now the old witch had through her caused the Hunter's eyes to become heavy.

He said to the maiden, 'We will sit down for a little while and rest; I am so tired that I
can hardly stand on my feet.'

So they sat down, and he laid his head on her lap and fell asleep. As soon as he was sound
asleep she unfastened the cloak from his shoulders, threw it on her own, left the granite and
stones, and wished herself home again.

But when the Hunter had finished his sleep and awoke, he found that his love had betrayed him
and left him alone on the wild mountain. 'Oh,' said he, 'why is faithlessness so great in the
world?' and he sat down in sorrow and trouble, not knowing what to do.

But the mountain belonged to fierce and huge giants, who lived on it and traded there, and
he had not sat long before he saw three of them striding towards him. So he lay down as if
he had fallen into a deep sleep.

The giants came up, and the first pushed him with his foot, and said, 'What sort of an earthworm
is that?'

The second said, 'Crush him dead.'

But the third said contemptuously, 'It is not worth the trouble! Let him live; he cannot remain
here, and if he goes higher up the mountain the clouds will take him and carry him off.'

Talking thus they went away. But the Hunter had listened to their talk, and as soon as they
had gone he rose and climbed to the summit. When he had sat there a little while a cloud swept
by, and, seizing him, carried him away. It travelled for a time in the sky, and then it sank
down and hovered over a large vegetable garden surrounded by walls, so that he came safely
to the ground amidst cabbages and vegetables. The Hunter then looked about him, saying, 'If
only I had something to eat! I am so hungry, and it will go badly with me in the future, for
I see here not an apple or pear or fruit of any kind--nothing but vegetables everywhere.' At
last he thought, 'At a pinch I can eat a salad; it does not taste particularly nice, but it
will refresh me.' So he looked about for a good head and ate it, but no sooner had he swallowed
a couple of mouthfuls than he felt very strange, and found himself wonderfully changed. Four
legs began to grow on him, a thick head, and two long ears, and he saw with horror that he
had changed into a donkey. But as he was still very hungry and this juicy salad tasted very
good to his present nature, he went on eating with a still greater appetite. At last he got
hold of another kind of cabbage, but scarcely had swallowed it when he felt another change,
and he once more regained his human form.

The Hunter now lay down and slept off his weariness. When he awoke the next morning he broke
off a head of the bad and a head of the good cabbage, thinking, 'This will help me to regain
my own, and to punish faithlessness.' Then he put the heads in his pockets, climbed the wall,
and started off to seek the castle of his love. When he had wandered about for a couple of
days he found it quite easily. He then browned his face quickly, so that his own mother would
not have known him, and went into the castle, where he begged for a lodging.

'I am so tired,' he said, 'I can go no farther.'

The witch asked, 'Countryman, who are you, and what is your business?'

He answered, 'I am a messenger of the King, and have been sent to seek the finest salad that
grows under the sun. I have been so lucky as to find it, and am bringing it with me; but the
heat of the sun is so great that the tender cabbage threatens to grow soft, and I do not know
if I shall be able to bring it any farther.'

When the old witch heard of the fine salad she wanted to eat it, and said, 'Dear countryman,
just let me taste the wonderful salad.'

'Why not?' he answered; 'I have brought two heads with me, and will give you one.'

So saying, he opened his sack and gave her the bad one. The witch suspected no evil, and her
mouth watered to taste the new dish, so that she went into the kitchen to prepare it herself.
When it was ready she could not wait till it was served at the table, but she immediately took
a couple of leaves and put them in her mouth. No sooner, however, had she swallowed them than
she lost human form, and ran into the courtyard in the shape of a donkey.

Now the servant came into the kitchen, and when she saw the salad standing there ready cooked
she was about to carry it up, but on the way, according to her old habit, she tasted it and
ate a couple of leaves. Immediately the charm worked, and she became a donkey, and ran out
to join the old witch, and the dish with the salad in it fell to the ground. In the meantime,
the messenger was sitting with the lovely maiden, and as no one came with the salad, and she
wanted very much to taste it, she said, 'I don't know where the salad is.'

Then thought the Hunter, 'The cabbage must have already begun to work.' And he said, 'I will
go to the kitchen and fetch it myself.'

When he came there he saw the two donkeys running about in the courtyard, but the salad was
lying on the ground.

'That's all right,' said he; 'two have had their share!' And lifting the remaining leaves up,
he laid them on the dish and brought them to the maiden.

'I am bringing you the delicious food my own self,' he said, 'so that you need not wait any
longer.'

Then she ate, and, as the others had done, she at once lost her human form, and ran as a donkey
into the yard.

When the Hunter had washed his face, so that the changed ones might know him, he went into
the yard, saying, 'Now you shall receive a reward for your faithlessness.'

He tied them all three with a rope, and drove them away till he came to a mill. He knocked
at the window, and the miller put his head out and asked what he wanted.

'I have three tiresome animals,' he answered, 'which I don't want to keep any longer. If you
will take them, give them food and stabling, and do as I tell you with them, I will pay you
as much as you want.'

The miller replied, 'Why not? What shall I do with them?'

Then the Hunter said that to the old donkey, which was the witch, three beatings and one meal;
to the younger one, which was the servant, one beating and three meals; and to the youngest
one, which was the maiden, no beating and three meals; for he could not find it in his heart
to let the maiden be beaten.

Then he went back into the castle, and he found there all that he wanted. After a couple of
days the miller came and said that he must tell him that the old donkey which was to have three
beatings and only one meal had died. 'The two others,' he added, 'are certainly not dead, and
get their three meals every day, but they are so sad that they cannot last much longer.'

Then the Hunter took pity on them, laid aside his anger, and told the miller to drive them
back again. And when they came he gave them some of the good cabbage to eat, so that they became
human again. Then the beautiful maiden fell on her knees before him, saying, 'Oh, my dearest,
forgive me the ill I have done you! My mother compelled me to do it; it was against my will,
for I love you dearly. Your wishing-cloak is hanging in a cupboard, and as for the bird-heart
I will make a drink and give it back to you.'

But he changed his mind, and said, 'Keep it; it makes no difference, for I will take you to
be my own dear true wife.'

And the wedding was celebrated, and they lived happy together till death.

 THE LITTLE GREEN FROG(8)

(8) Cabinet des Fees.

In a part of the world whose name I forget lived once upon a time two kings, called Peridor
and Diamantino. I have tested it and found it worth in all
conditions, even under temptations to which others have barely resisted would. I beg that
you serve you agree to its Council, its assistance if I will not be among you, and I especially
hope that you never directly from your Page can be, unless he should desire to go himself. Do
not regard him as a Servant, as a subordinate. His heart is of gold, his mind - although in the
great World steeled not - cool and collected. Remember him once plentiful!

"You'll find in our will, as I wish he worked for all my services should be rewarded.

"In, In! If I imagine you could ever be unhappy from heartache, from Worry! When I think about
it you could capture a nasty disease and you ought to daily pain, fight! I ask the fate, all
of you to turn away. "

Anges eyes overflowed, she bent over the leaves and rested her head.

For the love he was missing; corroborated these records are all too
convincing.

Now it was also the last blurs what in her heart would still be able to move in doubt. Nothing
was left as a gentle sorrow and grief of pity.

Carlos loved the world revile, they knew him free of guilt, no less
a big hit themselves, and they wanted to teach their children to keep
his memory for all time high.

       

And Tibet? Well! Be had to act! The next day she decided to leave to take it off his painful position
free.

* * * * *

In rose the next morning for their travel arrangements early in the morning. A the servant had
to hurry away, to inquire after the departure of the trains, and became the Evening called
in to pack the dressing room. In yet while they surround the children answer granted, could be
cajoled and to adopt the boy because she left the school, even wondered if she should not take
the little Ange, this request at their tender flattering words recited, she remembered suddenly
that they might not even have enough money for the train journey. She hurried into her cabinet,
opened the desk and counted with feverish haste, which is still present.

Until the last moment she was normally been that Tibet is responsible for all money matters. She
was now an even and it oppressed her that she had handed this not
even the fare.

It would in subsequently call almost anything you own! Only this fact in their generality
and their empty horror remained in their rush.

What was immediately necessary, what they still found in their possession, they had not thought
about it.

Now when searched In her writing, she found only three small pieces of gold. Completely disappointed,
they let down his arms and leaned dejected head.

"May I then travel with Mom?" Flattered at that moment a voice. It was the In small, which was
hurried after her, and now quietly urged pleadingly at her.

"Oh, no, no, my favorite," said Ange, woken from their helplessness.

"I know myself do not even know if I'll continue today. Let me now, sweet Ange. Go over and I
am same with you. "

The little girl crept annoyed and crying from there, and was only felt by the In Question of the
child remembers, and now everything is different, as formerly!

What should happen now?

Tibet was in a position from which commanded a duty to free him as soon as possible. Be allowed
to hesitate a moment, and now they were after all of these reasons
may prevented from traveling!

And what to say to their environment when they picked up again about all the arrangements?

After the suspect negative reply from Olga, the fear, all the world knows already to their situation,
they fancied being exposed by the trivial and unpleasant Assumptions food to give.

Was it real? You no longer had the sufficient funds, a small travel to compete, and yet she was surrounded
by luxury and still got the right to a big budget?

This note, this absurdity increased Anges depressed mood, this was
their ignorance human relations.

They needed to travel to Frankfurt three times or five times, what they had? They did not know.
She had become so shy and insecure that they do not to ask about
the cost of the trip dared, because they feared it would attract attention.

The

means and purposes mistook their meaning already. So they thought, whether or not they have the right
to drive in a coupe first or second class. No! Who had not had the obligation limitation.
You could just buy the cheapest ticket.

But they should hurry to the station in her own car, followed by a
servant, leaving behind such a budget, and take a seat next to smoking,
perhaps drunken men in an unheated coupe?

She, the lady in the precious travel coat of a small Asset holding cost?

Ah! cost hundreds of fur, and she took a fraction wanted to despair by this fast? He had such
a great value, why not sell it?

That was just it! She was powerless to act, only now, at least in those days. Time and again these
differences between truth and illusion!

"Carlos, Carlos!" Cried Ange. Once again the feeling of bitterness rose up, though to in this gentle
soul as quickly extinguished.

In the last it was still dominated by another troubled thoughts.

If they did not return!

If someone took her husband's papers, they read and the world apparently
was that he had at hand laid himself -

Everything was still higher
than the duty to his name on the grave to keep up.

She decided to destroy its records, and their piety, they had yet
again with the execution .

Procrastinating

Such was the poor woman, in the hands of the few pieces of gold and
the heart full of doubts, worries and fears.

She was in a state of cruel struggle. Your good nature, refused on to the secret whispers of
their inner, which she shouted: Say anything a lie and you will liberate
you from your worries!

Again and again crossed her mind the question: Where do you manage
you money?

And again replied the busy devil: Avoid the truth, circumventing, conceal it and hide Your Not
under a careless air.

And this whispering voice was not entirely wrong. Olga's letter was the proof. Once decided However,
to trust the governess, but she rejected that plan as everyone else.

Lies, could not conceal it: open express everything forbade her to the experience prudence.

Meanwhile, the servant returned and reported that the train departed around noon. It were missing a
few hours. He was about to be removed after completion of his mission, In a matter threw:

"You happen to know the price of tickets, Philip?

The servant replied in the affirmative, as he looked up in a course book which he had bought
and handed to In.

How significant it was!

       

While he was looking concerned at the thought that this little book would still be paid, that
the servant had incurred the amount.

Now called this the fare for first class.

"And the second?"

Asked casually However, by hastily in her mind the above sum compared with their little possessions.
"Well, thank you."

The servant bowed and left.

It was In almost a comfort that those granted provided was that it would choose the first
class. Nor their environment seemed the completely different circumstances to know nothing.

And had the money Ange, filed. Of course, nothing remained in the house, but in two Days was also
certainly happen! They calmed down and decided to travel. You gave the final orders, spoke of the
small In soothingly as long until they are were satisfied, and finally
went at the appointed hour on the station.

The children climbed with her the car and were, as always, when they appeared observed by people
curious.

As was the governess, a respectful distance, a part of the servants, before the Portal was
an open carriage, decorated with the count's coat of arms, sat on the box of Coachman in the gorgeous
livery, the coupe, the beautiful, aristocratic wife climbed into the wonderful Fur. No wonder that the
distance between the individual and those weighed. Certainly, it was but an enviable woman! If they
had had even heartache, but she did not fight with the daily pinpricks of life. She was sitting
at least in its magnificent rooms in wealth and luxury, was in very different circumstances
than those who stood around!

And now, hugs and goodbye! A hot Thränlein Anges sparkled in the eye. And another Goodbye,
and another. Now the locomotive whistled. "Good-bye! Be obedient and well behaved, sweet children! "A white
handkerchief fluttered a while from the Coupé. Now it was Mama In left.

* * * * *

Be left alone, and the trip went quickly. Her thoughts were so vivid that they almost noticed what was
going on around them.

Primarily she dealt with Teut She had in a few words written and asked that he let her answer
immediately. Maybe if she only a letter from him in their hands, if his words of comfort. when
they touch his sympathy would!

It frightened her, that he so long had nothing heard from again. Of course, the troops moving from
place to place, battles were fought, battles were fought, where was the time and rest for even the
most important things!

How often invaded With a craving for it! She longed for his view, after his word. Where he worked,
things dealt by itself is an indescribable feeling of Safety had always permeated when Teut was near
her and to her side with counsel stood.

And then her thoughts were directed alternately in Tibetan and the children. The things that those
concerned, the more painful nature they were, they worried less, but it worked their thoughts,
whether they will not happen. Ben should protect the stomach, Erna had medical to take, she
found daunting bitter, and only her mother she was able to convince so far, her that this was
necessary. And the school work of the boys, and the grief of the small In! Whether they would have
probably calmed down? How bitterly she had wept at the station.

In the few times threw the view from the window and left the already
half in the twilight fading things go by.

A troubled, stormy weather and snow had come up and put his sky flakes tight and relentlessly
around the countryside. This appeared in rapid flight villages, cities, a single house, where
a fire sparks in the air sending factory chimney up, then small items such as lost in the snow-desert
appearing's cottage, sharply telegraph wires, now, slanting upward
striving soon close to the bell adorned supports, lightning visible
as dark Erdfäden becoming and disappearing.

And now back flat, endless, snowy country from which a single leafless Tree like a raw stripped
of emblem of the season it became melancholy.

And continued, constantly at top speed for hours, until the shrill whistle of the locomotive,
the Groan of brakes followed, and both the scenery out there, like
the roaring sound of the then storming the train changed its character:
hollow now, as underground sounding Strokes, caused by some grim coming,
pleading to the side rails railway wagons; small red and green lights,
and uncannily earth spirits, gradually lighter air, as a reflex of
the emerging life in houses and huts, and then a final short scream
of the locomotive, screeching brakes again and finally stop and rest.

And now on calls, hurrying steps, loud talking, the rattle of the
Postal Packet cars, and Slamming doors and the window coupe at the
same time a whistling noises from the storm blew through Concourse.

Then it went back like a whipped by the Furies, living monster out
into the Forward, in the snow and into the night.

And again the same or similar images: sets of unequal houses, weißglitzernde roofs, hundreds of
lights, long, sparse of Light sunlit, deserted streets, from the mist-shrouded air as if frozen
towering steeples, again freight cars, an individual like a demon with red eyes spot passing
fire engine - a Jerk, nor a reckless jerk at the points, and finally an even, sniping, wheezing,
joining end of the pitch then flying courier train.

After an hour's ride the train stopped again a minute. The door was flung open in Anges Coupé.
It seemed to be one of the last stops before Frankfurt.

Rapid words took place between in a hasty course of hurrying passengers and the conductor.
"Here quick! It is high Time - "

A whistle from the platoon leader - a blow, - a man got in, even a
whistle of the locomotive, and Now, the train roared like this again.

The stranger, apparently belonging to the better classes, greeted
In volatile and seemed at first, deepens despite the dim lighting,
very reading a newspaper.

But gradually He began his gaze directed at In and finally in a so-intrusive manner to consider that
she worried so vividly. The man looked uneasy. He wore a dark beard, had examined his eyes, those
eyes that speak a terrible, silent language, and next to the chosen one to dress buttoned to the
neck with white hot red Sammetweste Knobs. In could not explain why its just so weird this vest
Feeling frightens.

Finally the man broke the silence and asked in French whether her well - she forgive - a hotel
in Frankfurt is familiar. He was a stranger and had failed to .

Inquire Be denied and gave, albeit politely, to understand by her expression that she wish to
make any conversation.

"Will you spend the night in Frankfurt, miss?" The stranger began nevertheless of again.

"Maybe - my Lord," and Applied to the larger supporting their resolute defense the view from
the window and looked out.

The stranger remained undecided for a while, but then took the floor again and made a mixed with fine
scorn apology. He also changed the course and tried to attract attention in offensive intrusion
Anges.

In trembled, but she was limited in time to a single view through
which they dismissed the stranger in his place was looking for.

       

In fact, the man seemed to finally be taught, and he was silent.

Now, pressed on with closed eyes in the corner of the seat. But even through the lids saw her
in demonstrating the increase of their anxiety, the red vest and the sparkling eyes of strangers
themselves.

From outside came the sound of the bustling then, flying cars, even a short Whistle of the locomotive,
then drove another train coming from London, across the tracks. As the wild hunt and stob he
raced with a short, rousing hissing, the storm wind in the back, past them. Then came the previous
regular noise again.

"My dear lady! I ask, my dear lady, "now penetrated the voice of strangers in half pleading,
half-officious tone of Anges ear.

"Sir, I must urge that you also do not bother me! They have a Lady in front of you! Again, for
the last time, I have already made it clear that I do not Conversation wish. "

But the stranger did not move from the spot. In their anger only seemed more attractive.
"How can you be so excited, so angry," he began again, shaking his
head, looked Anges eyes moved closer and felt under more soothing
words, even after their Hand. A hot hand brushed passionate, in fact,
during one second Anges rights.

"My Lord, Words fail me, for your
behavior! I order you to immediately withdraw! " called Ange, flew
up and turned her slender, in mourning, walked the dark figure Sun
commanding before the man in that he started back. "If you do not
feel better by itself awaken when you do not set your outrageous importunities,
I will furling ! Draw I do it with God now, at once - "

When the
stranger, despite the disarmament which was reflected in his expression,
this call not yet followed, caught In the belt, opened the window
and cried, while after the line groped for in the darkness beyond
help.

The black eyed night with her pitiless face in the dimly lit
room, White flakes of their dead in bed whirled the coupe, cold, icy
drafts pushed into it.

Now the locomotive whistled, the black, impregnated
with a thousand invisible atoms smoke threw his stinking breath into
the coupe, with the icy air penetrated in throat and killed Anges
every sound. Forward! Next! The train sped away! What shaving one's
hand at the silent large Timer human processes, even the cry of a
frightened human child, which the whim of an intruder?

Fortunately
for In the train had now been reached, the Frankfurt precincts. The
stranger made hastily to do with his things, and Applied is still
breathless with excitement, back into the coupe. A few moments and
the final whistle sounded. The car stopped, the doors were open, the
stranger jumped hastily out with short, timid greeting, hastening
that With him in the next second I lost sight of, and they left themselves,
nor among the Aftermath of the horrors that floated above her, the
weird room and went to town.

* * * * *

In as after a night of exciting
dreams and concerns to a consideration of Tasks of the day came and
at first recalled that they provide some funds must, she sat there
a long time pondering and could not rouse themselves to a decision.
Only those who have been in a life situation ever, in the most necessary
not only missing, but also look into the future is the saddest thing
in mind is the state understanding of discouragement and uncertainty
in which it was.

The repercussions of the excitement of the evening
drifted, money concerns, the nascent Impressions, especially the feeling
that they seem anything but the environment was assumed the strange
city, the impending police questioning - which exercised all such
an effect In on that, on the progress already prepared, on the stairs
once again turned back to went back to her room, crying and struggling
for form.

And this was her last! Yes, even more. What has been reached
any expression because lacked the proper touchstone designed to gradually
clear and strong in its interior. She thought of her children, and
the memory of this is strengthened their sense of duty. The nobility
of her soul helped her to an irrevocable decision and a firm resolve.
Now appeared that she was cut from a better wood than the average
of those to wander in the world.

No more looking back to earlier
carefree times, no comparisons! She wanted it straight Directed eye! Peridor was rejoiced to embrace
his wife and his son once more, and with the help of the fairies began to make preparations
for the marriage of Saphir and Serpentine, who turned out to be the daughter of Aglantine and
Diamantino, and as much a princess as he was a prince. The people of the kingdom were delighted,
and everybody lived happy and contented to the end of their lives.

 THE SEVEN-HEADED SERPENT(9)

(9) 'Die Siebenkopfige Schlange,' from Schmidt's Griechische Mahrchen.

Once upon a time there was a king who determined to take a long voyage. He assembled his fleet
and all the seamen, and set out. They went straight on night and day, until they came to an
island which was covered with large trees, and under every tree lay a lion. As soon as the
King had landed his men, the lions all rose up together and tried to devour them. After a long
battle they managed to overcome the wild beasts, but the greater number of the men were killed.
Those who remained alive now went on through the forest and found on the other side of it a
beautiful garden, in which all the plants of the world flourished together.

There were also in the garden three springs: the first flowed with silver, the second with
gold, and the third with pearls. The men unbuckled their knapsacks and filled them with those
precious things. In the middle of the garden they found a large lake, and when they reached
the edge of it the Lake began to speak, and said to them, 'What men are you, and what brings
you here? Are you come to visit our king?' But they were too much frightened to answer.

Then the Lake said, 'You do well to be afraid, for it is at your peril that you are come hither.
Our king, who has seven heads, is now asleep, but in a few minutes he will wake up and come
to me to take his bath! Woe to anyone who meets him in the garden, for it is impossible to
escape from him. This is what you must do if you wish to save your lives. Take off your clothes
and spread them on the path which leads from here to the castle. The King will then glide over
something soft, which he likes very much, and he will be so pleased with that that he will
not devour you. He will give you some punishment, but then he will let you go.'

The men did as the Lake advised them, and waited for a time. At noon the earth began to quake,
and opened in many places, and out of the openings appeared lions, tigers, and other wild beasts,
which surrounded the castle, and thousands and thousands of beasts came out of the castle following
their king, the Seven-headed Serpent. The Serpent glided over the clothes which were spread
for him, came to the Lake, and asked it who had strewed those soft things on the path? The
Lake answered that it had been done by people who had come to do him homage. The King commanded
that the men should be brought before him. They came humbly on their knees, and in a few words
told him their story. Then he spoke to them with a mighty and terrible voice, and said, 'Because
you have dared to come here, I lay upon you the punishment. Every year you must bring me from
among your people twelve youths and twelve maidens, that I may devour them. If you do not do
this, I will destroy your whole nation.'

Then he desired one of his beasts to show the men the way out of the garden, and dismissed
them. They then left the island and went back to their own country, where they related what
had happened to them. Soon the time came round when the king of the beasts would expect the
youths and maidens to be brought to him. The King therefore issued a proclamation inviting
twelve youths and twelve maidens to offer themselves up to save their country; and immediately
many young people, far more than enough, hastened to do so. A new ship was built, and set with
black sails, and in it the youths and maidens who were appointed for the king of the beasts
embarked and set out for his country. When they arrived there they went at once to the Lake,
and this time the lions did not stir, nor did the springs flow, and neither did the Lake speak.
So they waited then, and it was not long before the earth quaked even more terribly than the
first time. The Seven-headed Serpent came without his train of beasts, saw his prey waiting
for him, and devoured it at one mouthful. Then the ship's crew returned home, and the same
thing happened yearly until many years had passed.

Now the King of this unhappy country was growing old, and so was the Queen, and they had no
children. One day the Queen was sitting at the window weeping bitterly because she was childless,
and knew that the crown would therefore pass to strangers after the King's death. Suddenly
a little old woman appeared before her, holding an apple in her hand, and said, 'Why do you
weep, my Queen, and what makes you so unhappy?'

'Alas, good mother,' answered the Queen, 'I am unhappy because I have no children.'

'Is that what vexes you?' said the old woman. 'Listen to me. I am a nun from the Spinning Convent,(10)
and my mother when she died left me this apple. Whoever eats this apple shall have a child.'

(10) Convent Gnothi.

The Queen gave money to the old woman, and bought the apple from her. Then she peeled it, ate
it, and threw the rind out of the window, and it so happened that a mare that was running loose
in the court below ate up the rind. After a time the Queen had a little boy, and the mare also
had a male foal. The boy and the foal grew up together and loved each other like brothers.
In course of time the King died, and so did the Queen, and their son, who was now nineteen
years old, was left alone. One day, when he and his horse were talking together, the Horse
said to him, 'Listen to me, for I love you and wish for your good and that of the country.
If you go on every year sending twelve youths and twelve maidens to the King of the Beasts,
your country will very soon be ruined. Mount upon my back: I will take you to a woman who can
direct you how to kill the Seven-headed Serpent.'

Then the youth mounted his horse, who carried him far away to a mountain which was hollow,
for in its side was a great underground cavern. In the cavern sat an old woman spinning. This
was the cloister of the nuns, and the old woman was the Abbess. They all spent their time in
spinning, and that is why the convent has this name. All round the walls of the cavern there
were beds cut out of the solid rock, upon which the nuns slept, and in the middle a light was
burning. It was the duty of the nuns to watch the light in turns, that it might never go out,
and if anyone of them let it go out the others put her to death.

As soon as the King's son saw the old Abbess spinning he threw himself at her feet and entreated
her to tell him how he could kill the Seven-headed Serpent.

She made the youth rise, embraced him, and said, 'Know, my son, that it is I who sent the nun
to your mother and caused you to be born, and with you the horse, with whose help you will
be able to free the world from the monster. I will tell you what you have to do. Load your
horse with cotton, and go by a secret passage which I will show you, which is hidden from the
wild beasts, to the Serpent's palace. You will find the King asleep upon his bed, which is
all hung round with bells, and over his bed you will see a sword hanging. With this sword only
it is possible to kill the Serpent, because even if its blade breaks a new one will grow again
for every head the monster has. Thus you will be able to cut off all his seven heads. And this
you must also do in order to deceive the King: you must slip into his bed-chamber very softly,
and stop up all the bells which are round his bed with cotton. Then take down the sword gently,
and quickly give the monster a blow on his tail with it. This will make him waken up, and if
he catches sight of you he will seize you. But you must quickly cut off his first head, and
then wait till the next one comes up. Then strike it off also, and so go on till you have cut
off all his seven heads.'

The old Abbess then gave the Prince her blessing, and he set out upon his enterprise, arrived
at the Serpent's castle by following the secret passage which she had shown him, and by carefully
attending to all her directions he happily succeeded in killing the monster. As soon as the
wild beasts heard of their king's death, they all hastened to the castle, but the youth had
long since mounted his horse and was already far out of their reach. They pursued him as fast
as they could, but they found it impossible to overtake him, and he reached home in safety.
Thus he freed his country from this terrible oppression.

THE GRATEFUL BEASTS(11)

(11) From the Hungarian. Kletke.

There was once upon a time a man and woman who had three fine-looking sons, but they were so
poor that they had hardly enough food for themselves, let alone their children. So the sons
determined to set out into the world and to try their luck. Before starting their mother gave
them each a loaf of bread and her blessing, and having taken a tender farewell of her and their
father the three set forth on their travels.

The youngest of the three brothers, whose name was Ferko, was a beautiful youth, with a splendid
figure, blue eyes, fair hair, and a complexion like milk and roses. His two brothers were as
jealous of him as they could be, for they thought that with his good looks he would be sure
to be more fortunate than they would ever be.

One day all the three were sitting resting under a tree, for the sun was hot and they were
tired of walking. Ferko fell fast asleep, but the other two remained awake, and the eldest
said to the second brother, 'What do you say to doing our brother Ferko some harm? He is so
beautiful that everyone takes a fancy to him, which is more than they do to us. If we could
only get him out of the way we might succeed better.'

'I quite agree with you,' answered the second brother, 'and my advice is to eat up his loaf
of bread, and then to refuse to give him a bit of ours until he has promised to let us put
out his eyes or break his legs.'

His eldest brother was delighted with this proposal, and the two wicked wretches seized Ferko's
loaf and ate it all up, while the poor boy was still asleep.

When he did awake he felt very hungry and turned to eat his bread, but his brothers cried out,
'You ate your loaf in your sleep, you glutton, and you may starve as long as you like, but
you won't get a scrap of ours.'

Ferko was at a loss to understand how he could have eaten in his sleep, but he said nothing,
and fasted all that day and the next night. But on the following morning he was so hungry that
he burst into tears, and implored his brothers to give him a little bit of their bread. Then
the cruel creatures laughed, and repeated what they had said the day before; but when Ferko
continued to beg and beseech them, the eldest said at last, 'If you will let us put out one
of your eyes and break one of your legs, then we will give you a bit of our bread.'

At these words poor Ferko wept more bitterly than before, and bore the torments of hunger till
the sun was high in the heavens; then he could stand it no longer, and he consented to allow
his left eye to be put out and his left leg to be broken. When this was done he stretched out
his hand eagerly for the piece of bread, but his brothers gave him such a tiny scrap that the
starving youth finished it in a moment and besought them for a second bit.

But the more Ferko wept and told his brothers that he was dying of hunger, the more they laughed
and scolded him for his greed. So he endured the pangs of starvation all that day, but when
night came his endurance gave way, and he let his right eye be put out and his right leg broken
for a second piece of bread.

After his brothers had thus successfully maimed and disfigured him for life, they left him
groaning on the ground and continued their journey without him.

Poor Ferko ate up the scrap of bread they had left him and wept bitterly, but no one heard
him or came to his help. Night came on, and the poor blind youth had no eyes to close, and
could only crawl along the ground, not knowing in the least where he was going. But when the
sun was once more high in the heavens, Ferko felt the blazing heat scorch him, and sought for
some cool shady place to rest his aching limbs. He climbed to the top of a hill and lay down
in the grass, and as he thought under the shadow of a big tree. But it was no tree he leant
against, but a gallows on which two ravens were seated. The one was saying to the other as
the weary youth lay down, 'Is there anything the least wonderful or remarkable about this neighbourhood?'

'I should just think there was,' replied the other; 'many things that don't exist anywhere
else in the world. There is a lake down there below us, and anyone who bathes in it, though
he were at death's door, becomes sound and well on the spot, and those who wash their eyes
with the dew on this hill become as sharp-sighted as the eagle, even if they have been blind
from their youth.'

'Well,' answered the first raven, 'my eyes are in no want of this healing bath, for, Heaven
be praised, they are as good as ever they were; but my wing has been very feeble and weak ever
since it was shot by an arrow many years ago, so let us fly at once to the lake that I may
be restored to health and strength again.' And so they flew away.

Their words rejoiced Ferko's heart, and he waited impatiently till evening should come and
he could rub the precious dew on his sightless eyes.

At last it began to grow dusk, and the sun sank behind the mountains; gradually it became cooler
on the hill, and the grass grew wet with dew. Then Ferko buried his face in the ground till
his eyes were damp with dewdrops, and in a moment he saw clearer than he had ever done in his
life before. The moon was shining brightly, and lighted him to the lake where he could bathe
his poor broken legs.

Then Ferko crawled to the edge of the lake and dipped his limbs in the water. No sooner had
he done so than his legs felt as sound and strong as they had been before, and Ferko thanked
the kind fate that had led him to the hill where he had overheard the ravens' conversation.
He filled a bottle with the healing water, and then continued his journey in the best of spirits.

He had not gone far before he met a wolf, who was limping disconsolately along on three legs,
and who on perceiving Ferko began to howl dismally.

'My good friend,' said the youth, 'be of good cheer, for I can soon heal your leg,' and with
these words he poured some of the precious water over the wolf's paw, and in a minute the animal
was springing about sound and well on all fours. The grateful creature thanked his benefactor
warmly, and promised Ferko to do him a good turn if he should ever need it.

Ferko continued his way till he came to a ploughed field. Here he noticed a little mouse creeping
wearily along on its hind paws, for its front paws had both been broken in a trap.

Ferko felt so sorry for the little beast that he spoke to it in the most friendly manner, and
washed its small paws with the healing water. In a moment the mouse was sound and whole, and
after thanking the kind physician it scampered away over the ploughed furrows.

Ferko again proceeded on his journey, but he hadn't gone far before a queen bee flew against
him, trailing one wing behind her, which had been cruelly torn in two by a big bird. Ferko
was no less willing to help her than he had been to help the wolf and the mouse, so he poured
some healing drops over the wounded wing. On the spot the queen bee was cured, and turning
to Ferko she said, 'I am most grateful for your kindness, and shall reward you some day.' And
with these words she flew away humming, gaily.

Then Ferko wandered on for many a long day, and at length reached a strange kingdom. Here,
he thought to himself, he might as well go straight to the palace and offer his services to
the King of the country, for he had heard that the King's daughter was as beautiful as the day.

So he went to the royal palace, and as he entered the door the first people he saw were his
two brothers who had so shamefully ill-treated him. They had managed to obtain places in the
King's service, and when they recognised Ferko with his eyes and legs sound and well they were
frightened to death, for they feared he would tell the King of their conduct, and that they
would be hung.

No sooner had Ferko entered the palace than all eyes were turned on the handsome youth, and
the King's daughter herself was lost in admiration, for she had never seen anyone so handsome
in her life before. His brothers noticed this, and envy and jealousy were added to their fear,
so much so that they determined once more to destroy him. They went to the King and told him
that Ferko was a wicked magician, who had come to the palace with the intention of carrying
off the Princess.

Then the King had Ferko brought before him, and said, 'You are accused of being a magician
who wishes to rob me of my daughter, and I condemn you to death; but if you can fulfil three
tasks which I shall set you to do your life shall be spared, on condition you leave the country;
but if you cannot perform what I demand you shall be hung on the nearest tree.'

And turning to the two wicked brothers he said, 'Suggest something for him to do; no matter
how difficult, he must succeed in it or die.'

They did not think long, but replied, 'Let him build your Majesty in one day a more beautiful
palace than this, and if he fails in the attempt let him be hung.'

The King was pleased with this proposal, and commanded Ferko to set to work on the following
day. The two brothers were delighted, for they thought they had now got rid of Ferko for ever.
The poor youth himself was heart-broken, and cursed the hour he had crossed the boundary of
the King's domain. As he was wandering disconsolately about the meadows round the palace, wondering
how he could escape being put to death, a little bee flew past, and settling on his shoulder
whispered in his ear, 'What is troubling you, my kind benefactor? Can I be of any help to you?
I am the bee whose wing you healed, and would like to show my gratitude in some way.'

Ferko recognised the queen bee, and said, 'Alas! how could you help me? for I have been set
to do a task which no one in the whole world could do, let him be ever such a genius! To-morrow
I must build a palace more beautiful than the King's, and it must be finished before evening.'

'Is that all?' answered the bee, 'then you may comfort yourself; for before the sun goes down
to-morrow night a palace shall be built unlike any that King has dwelt in before. Just stay
here till I come again and tell you that it is finished.' Having said this she flew merrily
away, and Ferko, reassured by her words, lay down on the grass and slept peacefully till the
next morning.

Early on the following day the whole town was on its feet, and everyone wondered how and where
the stranger would build the wonderful palace. The Princess alone was silent and sorrowful,
and had cried all night till her pillow was wet, so much did she take the fate of the beautiful
youth to heart.

Ferko spent the whole day in the meadows waiting the return of the bee. And when evening was
come the queen bee flew by, and perching on his shoulder she said, 'The wonderful palace is
ready. Be of good cheer, and lead the King to the hill just outside the city walls.' And humming
gaily she flew away again.

Ferko went at once to the King and told him the palace was finished. The whole court went out
to see the wonder, and their astonishment was great at the sight which met their eyes. had from the Southwest German school her
E. Lask, from Marburg has her her N. Hartmann approached. Brunswigg has, by her Starting a
valuable book on the psychology of relationships and a critique of Kant valuable document
written. PF has left the phenomenology of Expenmcntalpsychologie make it fruitful known (see Basic
questions of perception theory ", 1918). The theoretical Physicist and mathematician, Weyl has
his excellent book on the relativity theory of Einstein also based on a phenomenological basis. The
school has Dilthey her how Dilthey way shortly before his death itself, approached in various
ways. Driesch's in his "doctrine of order" has been largely influenced by it and also on de
scholastic philosophy they remained as Geysers "Old and new ways of philosophy" show, not without influence.
Although many fundamental questions of philosophy are still unclear in it must still be hoped, that
the phenomenology of gradually inheitsbodender an e B e trachtungf ü rdieganze P hilosophy developed
from the a new universal property, philosophy, as we called it at first, may develop.

In Austria there is the Brentano school (Marty, Höfler, Meinong) from
their own drives some phenomenological tendencies largely opposed.

Marty, who is closest to Brentano, died a few years ago, his most valuable legacy, especially
his extensive Studies on the philosophy of language and the problems of space and time relevant
work has recently appeared in Niemeyer (Halle). Meinong, whose mental development and performance
best defined by the the book "the German philosophy of the present in self-representations" given,
very nice guessed and now after his death particularly valuable self-representation is known, in
his newly founded "object theory" also the ideal of a free existence priori knowledge of subject
matter designed to further his students, especially Mally have expanded. The difference between
the object theory of the phenomenology remains nevertheless profound. The theory of objects is missing,
especially the intuitive CHARACTER r of phenomenology. In his last rail book on "Emotional
presentation has Meinong himself in the new in this book treated the theory of values ​​and judgments
with the position much closer, has the fault of the author in his ethics.

Great relationship, especially with the epistemological realism directed phenomenology also has the
work of a man who, far too little attention, one of the most thorough
and represents the most original thinker among current philosophers.

 And the
whole Court went out to see the wonder, and were no less astonished than they had been the
first time. For in a heap higher than the King's palace lay all the grain of the country, and
not a single stalk of corn had been left behind in any of the fields. And how had all this
been done? The little mouse had summoned every other mouse in the land to its help, and together
they had collected all the grain in the kingdom.

The King could not hide his amazement, but at the same time his wrath increased, and he was
more ready than ever to believe the two brothers, who kept on repeating that Ferko was nothing
more nor less than a wicked magician. Only the beautiful Princess rejoiced over Ferko's success,
and looked on him with friendly glances, which the youth returned.

The more the cruel King gazed on the wonder before him, the more angry he became, for he could
not, in the face of his promise, put the stranger to death. He turned once more to the two
brothers and said, 'His diabolical magic has helped him again, but now what third task shall
we set him to do? No matter how impossible it is, he must do it or die.'

The eldest answered quickly, 'Let him drive all the wolves of the kingdom on to this hill before
to-morrow night. If he does this he may go free; if not he shall be hung as you have said.'

At these words the Princess burst into tears, and when the King saw this he ordered her to
be shut up in a high tower and carefully guarded till the dangerous magician should either
have left the kingdom or been hung on the nearest tree.

Ferko wandered out into the fields again, and sat down on the stump of a tree wondering what
he should do next. Suddenly a big wolf ran up to him, and standing still said, 'I'm very glad
to see you again, my kind benefactor. What are you thinking about all alone by yourself? If
I can help you in any way only say the word, for I would like to give you a proof of my gratitude.'

Ferko at once recognised the wolf whose broken leg he had healed, and told him what he had
to do the following day if he wished to escape with his life. 'But how in the world,' he added,
'am I to collect all the wolves of the kingdom on to that hill over there?'

'If that's all you want done,' answered the wolf, 'you needn't worry yourself. I'll undertake
the task, and you'll hear from me again before sunset to-morrow. Keep your spirits up.' And
with these words he trotted quickly away.

Then the youth rejoiced greatly, for now he felt that his life was safe; but he grew very sad
when he thought of the beautiful Princess, and that he would never see her again if he left
the country. He lay down once more on the grass and soon fell fast asleep.

All the next day he spent wandering about the fields, and toward evening the wolf came running
to him in a great hurry and said, 'I have collected together all the wolves in the kingdom,
and they are waiting for you in the wood. Go quickly to the King, and tell him to go to the
hill that he may see the wonder you have done with his own eyes. Then return at once to me
and get on my back, and I will help you to drive all the wolves together.'

Then Ferko went straight to the palace and told the King that he was ready to perform the third
task if he would come to the hill and see it done. Ferko himself returned to the fields, and
mounting on the wolf's back he rode to the wood close by.

Quick as lightning the wolf flew round the wood, and in a minute many hundred wolves rose up
before him, increasing in number every moment, till they could be counted by thousands. And I saw the woman happy the different
canvas, but especially the soft flannel dressing-gown of feel. "Ropes we, "the Virgin said to
her," to the village in which our congregation has engaged and this Overnight stays by himself,
I'll get there once the kids stuff, anything and everything "and she. greeted me and even expressed
a heartfelt thanks, driving the oxen, as was the car. But I lingered, holding the horses yet,
because conflict was in my heart, whether I hurrying horses reached the village to donate
the food items the rest of the people, or immediately All the girls here would give, so she wisely
distributed. And I decided right in my heart and drove her to slowly and reached soon and said
she nimbly: "Good Girl, I did not screen the mother was given alone on the car, so I the naked
clothing but they add not even buying food and some drinks, and there is enough of me in the box
of the car. Now I am inclined to put these gifts in your hand, and I aim to satisfy best the order;
you distribute it with meaning, I would have to obey the accident. " Plan the girl replied: "With
all the loyalty I use your gifts, the needy should be enjoy the same. "So she spoke. I quickly opened
the box of the car, Attached the hams out, heavy, brought the bread, wine and beer bottles, and
sufficient ' her anything and everything. Like, 'I would have given her more, but was empty
the box. All grabbed her feet on it to the new mother and pulled so on, and I hurried back to
my Horses of the city. "

And when Hermann ended, as the talkative neighbor took her word and
called out: "O happy, who in the days of this flight and confusion
in his house alone, does not live woman whom and children cling to
the side is anxious!

I feel happy now, I want 'to not much hot today father and not for women and children are concerned.
Frequent thought ' I also have the flight and had paired the best things the old money and the
chains of my late mother, all else is kept sacred. Of course, would still much back that is
not so easily done. Even the herbs and roots, with much Diligence collected Measures' I do not
like, even if the value of the product is great. Remains Provisor the back, so I go home comforted
by. I've saved the ready money and my body, I've saved everything, so the individual man entfliehet
the lightest.

"Neighbor" to the young Hermann replied emphatically, "No way I think as you and blame the
speech.

Is probably of a dignified man in happiness and misfortune only alone and not considering
understands to share sorrows and joys and not moved to the heart of is? Dear I would like than
ever decide to marry me today, For many a good girl need of protecting man and the man of the exhilarating
woman when it is imminent accident. "

Smiling, said the father: "So I hear you like to have such a sensible word! you rarely spoken
to me. "

But it was at once the good mother nimbly, "Son, for true you are right, we as parents! set the
example. Because we do not have to erwaehlet merry days, and we tied rather the saddest hour together.
Monday morning - I know exactly, because the day before That was terrible fire that consumed
our town - twenty years we are now, and it was a Sunday like today, hot and dry time and a
little water in places. All people were strolling in festive clothes, distributed in the villages
and in the taverns and Mills. And at the end of the city started the fire. The fire ran hastily
through the streets, produce themselves the draft. And it burned the barns of the rich harvest
gathered, And the streets were burning up to the market, and the house was consumed here with my
father and at the same time with this. Little we fled. I sat, the sad night, before the City
on the green, preserving the boxes and beds, but at last I was overcome by sleep, And when
I awoke in the morning, the cooling, the herabfaellt from the sun, I saw the smoke and the
glow and the hollow walls and eating. There was oppressed my heart alone The sun was again
more glorious than ever and inspired me the courage into the soul. Since I got I hurried. It
drove me to see the place where the house stood, and whether the Rescued chickens, which I particularly
loved, for my childish mind was still. When I now over the debris of the house and yard, therefore,
increased the still smoking, so the apartment wuest and saw destroyed, you came up to the other
side and were looking for the place. You was a horse in the stable swept up and the joists
about it and smoldering rubble, and to see there was nothing from animals. So we stood facing
each other, serious and sad: because the wall had fallen, the divorced our farms. And you comprehensive
test on my hand and said: "Lies, how do you come here go away you burn the soles, For? the debris
is hot, he scorches me stronger boots. "And you on me and wore hobest me off over here through
your yard. There's the gate of the house stood with his vault, As it stands now, it was left alone
by all. And you put me down and kissed me and I refused 'it. But you said it with great friendly
words: "Behold, the house is down. Stay here and help me build it, and I help other hand, even your
His father. "But I did not understand you until you get to the father and the mother Schick fast
the vow of the merry marriage was done. Still remember now, I am now the half-burned Joyful
entablature and see the sun still go up so wonderfully, For me the day the husband to have
it the first time the destruction of the wild son gave me the young. So I praise you, Hermann, that you think
a girl with pure confidence in you that sad times and dares to woo in the war and over the rubble.
"

In a moment the father answered vividly, and said: "The sentiment
is laudable, and true the story, Mother, you are telling me, for then
all will meet.

But better is better. Not every one relates it to start all over his entire life and being;
Not everyone should torment, as we and others did, Oh, how happy of the Father mother and the
house already well-ordered through the give and with it prosperity ausziert! And so I hope from
you, my Hermann, that you give me soon in the house with a beautiful bride, the dowry hereinfuehrst,
For a brave man deserves a wealthy girl, and it behaget Sun well when coming in with the females
gewuenscheten Also in baskets and boxes useful gift. Not without reason by many, many years, the
mother prepares the canvas daughter of fine and strong fabric, not without reason that the
sponsors worship her silverware, and secretes the father Desks in the rare goldstueck: For they shall
one day with their gifts and blessings Those Juengling , Rejoice, it has the choice above all.
Yes, I know how pleasant a female in the home there is, may know That you own The kitchen 'and
room and the bed itself and the table has itself covered. Only well-equipped 'I want the house of the
bride see, for the arms but is despised by the man only recently, and he holds as a maid, a
servant came in with the bundle. Remain inaccessible to men, and the times of love . Elapse
Yes, my Hermann, would you greatly enjoy my age, if you like me soon to House is a drug; Schwiegertoechterchen
her from the neighborhood, that house, the green. Reich is the man for true retail industry and
its factories are making him richer every day, for where the merchant does not win? Only three
daughters are there, but they share the wealth. Even the oldest is determined, I know, but the
second as the third yet, and may not have long. If I were in your place, I would have not hesitated
until now, One of the girls brought me, as I was carrying away the mother. "

Then the son replied modestly the urgent father: "Truly, my intention was, as Your to choose
one of the daughters of our neighbor. We are brought up together, played alongside the fountain on
the market in the old days, and I have often beschuetzet before the
boys' wildness.

But that was long ago already, and it remains the growing girl last cheap to house and flee
the wilder games. Well they have certainly pulled! I was at times also still old acquaintance,
like you, it wished that over, but I could never in their Dealing enjoy. Because they always blamed
on me, that I have to endure: Not to long was my rock, too rough and the color of the cloth
Not to mean and the hair is not trimmed right and crimped. At last I had in mind to brush
me like that Handelsbuebchen, Always on Sunday the show Over There, And herumhaengt to the
semi-silk in the summer of the napkin. But soon enough, I noted they had me always the best,
and that was me sensitive, My pride was hurt, but more so hurt me's deep that it's good will
misunderstood of mine that was against them, especially Minnie, the youngest. For as I was
last hinuebergegangen Easter, had the new rock, which now hangs just above the cabinet, drawn and was
styled like the rest, boy. When I entered, she giggled, but I pulled's not me. Minnie was sitting
at the piano, and it was there the father, heard the little girl sing and was delighted and
happy. Some I did not understand what is said in the songs was, but I heard a lot of Pamina, Tamino
much, and I did not want too dumb be! Once they had finished, I asked the texts to and after the
two people. All were silent out and smiled, but said the father: "Not true, my friend, he
knows only Adam and Eva? "No one thought then, and laughed out loud at the girl, according
to the boys laughed, it was the stomach, the old man. I dropped the hat with embarrassment,
and the giggles Took on and on, so much she also sang and played. And I hastened ashamed and
angry back home, hung the skirt in the closet and pulled the hair down with your fingers and vowed
to visit any more the threshold. And I was right, for vain are she and loveless, and I hear
still hot, I always Tamino with them. "

As the mother replied, "You should, Hermann angry, not so long with the children, because Children they
are all yes. Wilhelmina is good to be true and you was always weighed; Recently she asked, even
after you. The should choose you! "

As concern the son replied: "I do not know, it coined That frustration is so deep for me, I do
not want to be true at the piano see more and hear their song. "

But the father went and said the angry words: "A little joy I have nothing on you I! says'
it is always, as you testify to horses only and pleasure only to
the field: What is a servant already done the wohlbegueterten man,
you do, however, has deprived the father of the son, The honor for
him but also against other citizens showed.

And that was wrong with early empty hope the mother, if in school learning to read and write
and you never Like the others succeeded, and you always were sitting in the Bottom. Of course!
this is because when Honor is not in the bosom of a young man living and if he does not want to climb
higher. Would have My father provided for me, as I did for you, send me to school and my Teachers
held, Yes, I'd be different than what host to the Golden Lion! "

But the son got up and approached the door silently, slowly and without noise, but The father,
outraged, called after him: "So just go away I know the Go and defiant leader!! now the economy
that I do not chide, But do not just, you wanted a rustic The girls
bring me into the house as a daughter, the wench!

I have lived long and knows how to deal with people, to entertain the white men and women to be
satisfied Go away from me, I know the stranger to flatter complacent. But that is for me also a
Schwiegertoechterchen finally meet again and so I sweeten the weary! Play to me the piano, and
it will the most beautiful, best men of the city with pleasure gather, how it happens on Sundays
in the house of a neighbor! "As quietly pressuring the son of the latch, and so he left the
room.

Thalia, the Buerger

So the humble son escaped the violent speech, But the father continued
in the way he began - "What is not in man come not from him, and hardly
I Will the sincere wish fulfillment ever enjoyed, not that the Son,
the Father's was, but a better seems.

For what would be the house, what would be the city, if not always
each were thinking with desire to maintain and renew and also to improve
as time teaches us and abroad!

If one looks at the home but like so much, whose meaning is the Lord, How, The town entered,
the authorities judged. For where the towers fall and walls where in the trenches and refuse
are haeufet rubbish lying around in all the streets, where the stone disassociates itself
and the joint is not set again, where the rotten beams and the house in vain New support expected:
the place is evil reigns. Because if not always from above the order and cleanliness worketh,
Da accustoms slightly dirty Saumsal to the citizens, As the beggar accustoms also contact paltry
clothes. That's why I've used, you should Hermann is going on tour soon and see the least Strasbourg
and Frankfurt, and the friendly Mannheim, which is built the same and serene. After all, who
saw the cities, the great and neat, rests not, in future, decorate the home town itself, however small
they may be,. Praise not the stranger in our gates repaired the tower and the sacred and the
well-renewed Church? Not everyone praises the patch? the water-rich, hidden, well-distributed channels,
the benefits and security; that the fire was immediately defended in the first outbreak, Is
that not everything happened since that terrible conflagration? Owner I was six in the Council
I and my applause, I Have deserves thanks from good citizens, what I stated, diligently operated
and fully executed including the establishment honest men that they left unfinished. So finally
came the desire in every member of the Council. All efforts now, and already is the new hard Chausseebau
decided that connects us with the great road. But I am afraid so, and therefore will not act the
youth! For some, they think of pleasure and perishable only cleaning, Other Crouching at home
and breed behind the stove. And the fear I, such a Hermann is always with me to stay. "

And it said once the good, sensible mother: "Always you are, Father, so unfair against the son! And so
the least you be fulfilled your wish of good. For the one has, the other other gifts, everyone
needs it, and everyone is just in its own way Well and happy. I receive not blame Hermann,
For, I know, he is the goods, which he will one day inherit, value and an excellent host, a
model citizen and farmer, And certainly in the rate, I see ahead, not the last. But every day with
scolding and reprimanding inhibit the poor you all the courage in
the chest, as you have it done today.

"And she left the room immediately and rushed to the son, that somewhere she'd find him and with
Q-term Words re delighted, for he, the excellent son, he deserves' it.

Then said with a smile when she was away, the father, "but are a wonderful people the Women,
like children! Each lives so much to his own liking, and you should afterwards only praise over
and stroke. Once and for all is the true proverb of the Old man who does not go forward, comes
back! So it remains. "

And it replied to the druggist deliberately: "I am happy to admit
it, my friend, and I see me to always self for the better, provided
it is not expensive but new, but it helps to be true, if you do not
have the abundance of money to be active and energetic and inside
and outside Improved?

But too much of citizens is restricted, the good he can not be obtained if he knows it. Too
weak is his bag, the need for large, he will always prevented. Some would I have done: but
who is not afraid the cost of such Veraendrung, especially In these dangerous times! Long time,
I was already laughing my house in fashionable dresses, long glittered
with very large windows, the window, But he who does the merchant
to it, the Also the way to his fortune still knows that they have
on what the best?

Look at the Home to over there, the new! How splendid in the green fields of the white stucco
flourishes excludes itself! Big are the panels of the windows, and shine like mirror the disks, that
obscured stand the other houses on the market! And yet the right after our Brande, the most
beautiful, the pharmacy an angel and the Golden Lion. That was my garden also in the whole region
famous, and each passenger got up and looked through the red palings According to the beggars
of stone and to the colored dwarfs. Whom do I do then in the coffee the beautiful grotto work,
presented the course now dusty and half-fallen me standing there, Who enjoyed the high light colored
shimmering beauty of ordered mussels, and with Blinded eye looks even the connoisseurs of galena
and the coral. Similarly, in ward the hall also admired the painting, where the dressed men
and women walking in the garden And rich with pointed fingers and hold the flowers. So, who should see
that now only at! I am vexed beyond Little more, because everything should be different and tasteful,
How it's hot, and knows the slats and wooden benches. Everything is simple and smooth, no carving
or gilding could you want, and it costs the foreign timber now the most. Well, I would it
pleased me also to create something new, to go with the times and often, to supervise the household,
but it is afraid of anyone, even to back only the smallest, For who could probably now working
to pay the people? The other day I got's in mind, the angel Michael, I called the pharmacy to
the gild, and let the horrible dragon, the winds at his feet, But I let him turns brown as
it is, I was startled to Fordrung. "

Euterpe mother and son

So the men, expressed their entertaining. The mother went, however, the son from the first to
search the house, on the stone bench, where his usual seat was. When she there not found him,
so she went to look in the stable, whether it the magnificent horses, the stallions concerned
himself, Which he bought as a foal and he trusted no one. And told the Servant: "He went into
the garden." As they walked through the long nimble double courtyards, Had the stables back and
the well-timbered barns, chatting in the garden, to the extent Submitted to the walls of the town,
walked through it and was glad any growth Provided the supporting pillars deal, on which rested
the branches of the apple-laden tree, as the pear tree oppressive
activities, immediately took some caterpillars from the strong carbon
bursting away, For a busy Woman does not take steps in vain.

So she had come to the end of the long garden, Up the arbor covered
with honeysuckle, not because she found the son, any more than it
up now saw him in the garden.

But the little door was ajar, which consists of the arbor, from special Favor, had broken
through the wall of the town once the ancestor, the worthy burgomaster. And so she went comfortably
over the dry moat, Where on the road at once the most umzaeunete Vineyards climb steep path,
the area it swept to the sun. Also, she walked up and enjoyed the abundance of the grapes
on the rise, the barely concealed beneath the leaves. Shady was covered porch of the high mean,
which one ascended by steps of rough Plates. And it hung in. Chasselas and Muscat, reddish-blue
in addition to very special Size, all planted with diligence, the guests decorate dessert to. But
the other mountains covered individual sticks, smaller grapes bearing of which comes the delicious
wines. So she walked up to the fall itself, enjoying all the festive day in which the area in jubilation
lieset grapes and enters and gathers the must in the casks, fireworks of the evening, popping
lights of all places, and ends and so the most beautiful crops honored is.


This sight only increased the misery of the Prince, for he did not know where the castle was,
nor how to set about finding it. However, he resolved to seek the whole world through till
he came to the right place. He began by setting sail in a favourable wind, but his bad luck
followed him even on the sea. He had scarcely lost sight of the land when a violent storm arose,
and after several hours of beating about, the vessel was driven on to some rocks, on which
it dashed itself to bits. The Prince was fortunate enough to be able to lay hold of a floating
spar, and contrived to keep himself afloat; and, after a long struggle with the winds and waves,
he was cast upon a strange island. But what was his surprise, on reaching the shore, to hear
sounds of the most heartrending distress, mingled with the sweetest songs which had ever charmed
him! His curiosity was instantly roused, and he advanced cautiously till he saw two huge dragons
guarding the gate of a wood. They were terrible indeed to look upon. Their bodies were covered
with glittering scales; their curly tails extended far over the land; flames darted from their
mouths and noses, and their eyes would have made the bravest shudder; but as the Prince was
invisible and they did not see him, he slipped past them into the wood. He found himself at
once in a labyrinth, and wandered about for a long time without meeting anyone; in fact, the
only sight he saw was a circle of human hands, sticking out of the ground above the wrist,
each with a bracelet of gold, on which a name was written. The farther he advanced in the labyrinth
the more curious he became, till he was stopped by two corpses lying in the midst of a cypress
alley, each with a scarlet cord round his neck and a bracelet on his arm on which were engraved
their own names, and those of two Princesses.

The invisible Prince recognised these dead men as Kings of two large islands near his own home,
but the names of the Princesses were unknown to him. He grieved for their unhappy fate, and
at once proceeded to bury them; but no sooner had he laid them in their graves, than their
hands started up through the earth and remained sticking up like those of their fellows.

The Prince went on his way, thinking about this strange adventure, when suddenly at the turn
of the walk he perceived a tall man whose face was the picture of misery, holding in his hands
a silken cord of the exact colour of those round the necks of the dead men. A few steps further
this man came up with another as miserable to the full as he himself; they silently embraced,
and then without a word passed the cords round their throats, and fell dead side by side. In
vain the Prince rushed to their assistance and strove to undo the cord. He could not loosen
it; so he buried them like the others and continued his path.

He felt, however, that great prudence was necessary, or he himself might become the victim
of some enchantment; and he was thankful to slip past the dragons, and enter a beautiful park,
with clear streams and sweet flowers, and a crowd of men and maidens. But he could not forget
the terrible things he had seen, and hoped eagerly for a clue to the mystery. Noticing two
young people talking together, he drew near thinking that he might get some explanation of
what puzzled him. And so he did.

'You swear,' said the Prince, 'that you will love me till you die, but I fear your faithless
heart, and I feel that I shall soon have to seek the Fairy Despair, ruler of half this island.
She carries off the lovers who have been cast away by their mistresses, and wish to have done
with life. She places them in a labyrinth where they are condemned to walk for ever, with a
bracelet on their arms and a cord round their necks, unless they meet another as miserable
as themselves. Then the cord is pulled and they lie where they fall, till they are buried by
the first passer by. Terrible as this death would be,' added the Prince, 'it would be sweeter
than life if I had lost your love.'

The sight of all these happy lovers only made the Prince grieve the more, and he wandered along
the seashore spending his days; but one day he was sitting on a rock bewailing his fate, and
the impossibility of leaving the island, when all in a moment the sea appeared to raise itself
nearly to the skies, and the caves echoed with hideous screams. As he looked a woman rose from
the depths of the sea, flying madly before a furious giant. The cries she uttered softened
the heart of the Prince; he took the stone from his mouth, and drawing his sword he rushed
after the giant, so as to give the lady time to escape. But hardly had he come within reach
of the enemy, than the giant touched him with a ring that he held in his hand, and the Prince
remained immovable where he stood. The giant then hastily rejoined his prey, and, seizing her
in his arms, he plunged her into the sea. Then he sent some tritons to bind chains about the
Prince of the Golden Isle, and he too felt himself borne to the depths of the ocean, and without
the hope of ever again seeing the Princess.

Now the giant whom the invisible had so rashly attacked was the Lord of the Sea, and the third
son of the Queen of the Elements, and he had touched the youth with a magic ring which enabled
a mortal to live under water. So the Prince of the Golden Isle found, when bound in chains
by the tritons, he was carried through the homes of strange monsters and past immense seaweed
forests, till he reached a vast sandy space, surrounded by huge rocks. On the tallest of the
rocks sat the giant as on a throne.

'Rash mortal,' said he, when the Prince was dragged before him, 'you have deserved death, but
you shall live only to suffer more cruelly. Go, and add to the number of those whom it is my
pleasure to torture.'

At these words the unhappy Prince found himself tied to a rock; but he was not alone in his
misfortunes, for all round him were chained Princes and Princesses, whom the giant had led
captive. Indeed, it was his chief delight to create a storm, in order to add to the list of
his prisoners.

As his hands were fastened, it was impossible for the Prince of the Golden Isle to make use
of his magic stone, and he passed his nights and days dreaming of Rosalie. But at last the
time came when the giant took it into his head to amuse himself by arranging fights between
some of his captives. Lots were drawn, and one fell upon our Prince, whose chains were immediately
loosened. The moment he was set free, he snatched up his stone, and became invisible.

The astonishment of the giant at the sudden disappearance of the Prince may well be imagined.
He ordered all the passages to be watched, but it was too late, for the Prince had already
glided between two rocks. He wandered for a long while through the forests, where he met nothing
but fearful monsters; he climbed rock after rock, steered his way from tree to tree, till at
length he arrived at the edge of the sea, at the foot of a mountain that he remembered to have
seen in the cabinet of the present, where Rosalie was held captive.

Filled with joy, he made his way to the top of the mountain which pierced the clouds, and there
he found a palace. He entered, and in the middle of a long gallery he discovered a crystal
room, in the midst of which sat Rosalie, guarded night and day by genii. There was no door
anywhere, nor any window. At this sight the Prince became more puzzled than ever, for he did
not know how he was to warn Rosalie of his return. Yet it broke his heart to see her weeping
from dawn till dark.

One day, as Rosalie was walking up and down her room, she was surprised to see that the crystal
which served for a wall had grown cloudy, as if some one had breathed on it, and, what was
more, wherever she moved the brightness of the crystal always became clouded. This was enough
to cause the Princess to suspect that her lover had returned. In order to set the Prince of
the Air's mind at rest she began by being very gracious to him, so that when she begged that
her captivity might be a little lightened she should not be refused. At first the only favour
she asked was to be allowed to walk for one hour every day up and down the long gallery. This
was granted, and the Invisible Prince speedily took the opportunity of handing her the stone,
which she at once slipped into her mouth. No words can paint the fury of her captor at her
disappearance. He ordered the spirits of the air to fly through all space, and to bring back
Rosalie wherever she might be. They instantly flew off to obey his commands, and spread themselves
over the whole earth.

Meantime Rosalie and the Invisible Prince had reached, hand in hand, a door of the gallery
which led through a terrace into the gardens. In silence they glided along, and thought themselves
already safe, when a furious monster dashed itself by accident against Rosalie and the Invisible
Prince, and in her fright she let go his hand. No one can speak as long as he is invisible,
and besides, they knew that the spirits were all around them, and at the slightest sound they
would be recognised; so all they could do was to feel about in the hope that their hands might
once more meet.

But, alas! the joy of liberty lasted but a short time. The Princess, having wandered in vain
up and down the forest, stopped at last on the edge of a fountain. As she walked she wrote
on the trees: 'If ever the Prince, my lover, comes this way, let him know that it is here I
dwell, and that I sit daily on the edge of this fountain, mingling my tears with its waters.'

These words were read by one of the genii, who repeated them to his master. The Prince of the
Air, in his turn making himself invisible, was led to the fountain, and waited for Rosalie.
When she drew near he held out his hand, which she grasped eagerly, taking it for that of her
lover; and, seizing his opportunity, the Prince passed a cord round her arms, and throwing
off his invisibility cried to his spirits to drag her into the lowest pit.

It was at this moment that the Invisible Prince appeared, and at the sight of the Prince of
the Genii mounting into the air, holding a silken cord, he guessed instantly that he was carrying
off Rosalie.

He felt so overwhelmed by despair that he thought for an instant of putting an end to his life.
'Can I survive my misfortunes?' he cried. 'I fancied I had come to an end of my troubles, and
now they are worse than ever. What will become of me? Never can I discover the place where
this monster will hide Rosalie.'

The unhappy youth had determined to let himself die, and indeed his sorrow alone was enough
to kill him, when the thought that by means of the cabinets of the years he might find out
where the Princess was imprisoned, gave him a little ray of comfort. So he continued to walk
on through the forest, and after some hours he arrived at the gate of a temple, guarded by
two huge lions. Being invisible, he was able to enter unharmed. In the middle of the temple
was an altar, on which lay a book, and behind the altar hung a great curtain. The Prince approached
the altar and opened the book, which contained the names of all the lovers in the world: and
in it he read that Rosalie had been carried off by the Prince of the Air to an abyss which
had no entrance except the one that lay by way of the Fountain of Gold.

Now, as the Prince had not the smallest idea where this fountain was to be found, it might
be thought that he was not much nearer Rosalie than before. This was not, however, the view
taken by the Prince.

'Though every step that I take may perhaps lead me further from her,' he said to himself, 'I
am still thankful to know that she is alive somewhere.'

On leaving the temple the Invisible Prince saw six paths lying before him, each of which led
through the wood. He was hesitating which to choose, when he suddenly beheld two people coming
towards him, down the track which lay most to his right. They turned out to be the Prince Gnome
and his friend, and the sudden desire to get some news of his sister, Princess Argentine, caused
the Invisible Prince to follow them and to listen to their conversation.

'Do you think,' the Prince Gnome was saying, 'do you think that I would not break my chains
if I could? I know that the Princess Argentine will never love me, yet each day I feel her
dearer still. And as if this were not enough, I have the horror of feeling that she probably
loves another. So I have resolved to put myself out of my pain by means of the Golden Fountain.
A single drop of its water falling on the sand around will trace the name of my rival in her
heart. I dread the test, and yet this very dread convinces me of my misfortune.'

It may be imagined that after listening to these words the Invisible Prince followed Prince
Gnome like his shadow, and after walking some time they arrived at the Golden Fountain. The
unhappy lover stooped down with a sigh, and dipping his finger in the water let fall a drop
on the sand. It instantly wrote the name of Prince Flame, his brother. The shock of this discovery
was so real, that Prince Gnome sank fainting into the arms of his friend.

Meanwhile the Invisible Prince was turning over in his mind how he could best deliver Rosalie.
As, since he had been touched by the Giant's ring, he had the power to live in the water as
well as on land, he at once dived into the fountain. He perceived in one corner a door leading
into the mountain, and at the foot of the mountain was a high rock on which was fixed an iron
ring with a cord attached. The Prince promptly guessed that the cord was used to chain the
Princess, and drew his sword and cut it. In a moment he felt the Princess's hand in his, for
she had always kept her magic pebble in her mouth, in spite of the prayers and entreaties of
the Prince of the Air to make herself visible.

So hand in hand the invisible Prince and Rosalie crossed the mountain; but as the Princess
had no power of living under water, she could not pass the Golden Fountain. Speechless and
invisible they clung together on the brink, trembling at the frightful tempest the Prince of
the Air had raised in his fury. The storm had already lasted many days when tremendous heat
began to make itself felt. The lightning flashed, the thunder rattled, fire bolts fell from
heaven, burning up the forests and even the fields of corn. In one instant the very streams
were dried up, and the Prince, seizing his opportunity, carried the Princess over the Golden
Fountain.

It took them a long time still to reach the Golden Isle, but at last they got there, and we
may be quite sure they never wanted to leave it any more.

 THE CROW(13)

(13) From the Polish. Kletke.

Once upon a time there were three Princesses who were all three young and beautiful; but the
youngest, although she was not fairer than the other two, was the most loveable of them all.

About half a mile from the palace in which they lived there stood a castle, which was uninhabited
and almost a ruin, but the garden which surrounded it was a mass of blooming flowers, and in
this garden the youngest Princess used often to walk.

One day when she was pacing to and fro under the lime trees, a black crow hopped out of a rose-bush
in front of her. The poor beast was all torn and bleeding, and the kind little Princess was
quite unhappy about it. When the crow saw this it turned to her and said:

'I am not really a black crow, but an enchanted Prince, who has been doomed to spend his youth
in misery. If you only liked, Princess, you could save me. But you would have to say good-bye
to all your own people and come and be my constant companion in this ruined castle. There is
one habitable room in it, in which there is a golden bed; there you will have to live all by
yourself, and don't forget that whatever you may see or hear in the night you must not scream
out, for if you give as much as a single cry my sufferings will be doubled.'

The good-natured Princess at once left her home and her family and hurried to the ruined castle,
and took possession of the room with the golden bed.

When night approached she lay down, but though she shut her eyes tight sleep would not come.
At midnight she heard to her great horror some one coming along the passage, and in a minute
her door was flung wide open and a troop of strange beings entered the room. They at once proceeded
to light a fire in the huge fireplace; then they placed a great cauldron of boiling water on
it. When they had done this, they approached the bed on which the trembling girl lay, and,
screaming and yelling all the time, they dragged her towards the cauldron. She nearly died
with fright, but she never uttered a sound. Then of a sudden the cock crew, and all the evil
spirits vanished.

At the same moment the crow appeared and hopped all round the room with joy. It thanked the
Princess most heartily for her goodness, and said that its sufferings had already been greatly
lessened.

Now one of the Princess's elder sisters, who was very inquisitive, had found out about everything,
and went to pay her youngest sister a visit in the ruined castle. She implored her so urgently
to let her spend the night with her in the golden bed, that at last the good-natured little
Princess consented. But at midnight, when the odd folk appeared, the elder sister screamed
with terror, and from this time on the youngest Princess insisted always on keeping watch alone.

So she lived in solitude all the daytime, and at night she would have been frightened, had
she not been so brave; but every day the crow came and thanked her for her endurance, and assured
her that his sufferings were far less than they had been.

And so two years passed away, when one day the crow came to the Princess and said: 'In another
year I shall be freed from the spell I am under at present, because then the seven years will
be over. But before I can resume my natural form, and take possession of the belongings of
my forefathers, you must go out into the world and take service as a maidservant.'

The young Princess consented at once, and for a whole year she served as a maid; but in spite
of her youth and beauty she was very badly treated, and suffered many things. One evening,
when she was spinning flax, and had worked her little white hands weary, she heard a rustling
beside her and a cry of joy. Then she saw a handsome youth standing beside her; who knelt down
at her feet and kissed the little weary white hands.

'I am the Prince,' he said, 'who you in your goodness, when I was wandering about in the shape
of a black crow, freed from the most awful torments. Come now to my castle with me, and let
us live there happily together.'

So they went to the castle where they had both endured so much. But when they reached it, it
was difficult to believe that it was the same, for it had all been rebuilt and done up again.
And there they lived for a hundred years, a hundred years of joy and happiness.

HOW SIX MEN TRAVELLED THROUGH THE WIDE WORLD

There was once upon a time a man who understood all sorts of arts; he served in the war, and
bore himself bravely and well; but when the war was over, he got his discharge, and set out
on his travels with three farthings of his pay in his pocket. 'Wait,' he said; 'that does not
please me; only let me find the right people, and the King shall yet give me all the treasures
of his kingdom.' He strode angrily into the forest, and there he saw a man standing who had
uprooted six trees as if they were straws. He said to him, 'Will you be my servant and travel
with me?'

'Yes,' he answered; 'but first of all I will take this little bundle of sticks home to my mother,'
and he took one of the trees and wound it round the other five, raised the bundle on his shoulders
and bore it off. Then he came back and went with his master, who said, 'We two ought to be
able to travel through the wide world!' And when they had gone a little way they came upon
a hunter, who was on his knees, his gun on his shoulder, aiming at something. The master said
to him, 'Hunter, what are you aiming at?'

He answered, 'Two miles from this place sits a fly on a branch of an oak; I want to shoot out
its left eye.'

'Oh, go with me,' said the man; 'if we three are together we shall easily travel through the
wide world.'

The hunter agreed and went with him, and they came to seven windmills whose sails were going
round quite fast, and yet there was not a breath of wind, nor was a leaf moving. The man said,
'I don't know what is turning those windmills; there is not the slightest breeze blowing.'
So he walked on with his servants, and when they had gone two miles they saw a man sitting
on a tree, holding one of his nostrils and blowing out of the other.

'Fellow, what are you puffing at up there?' asked the man.

He replied, 'Two miles from this place are standing seven windmills; see, I am blowing to drive
them round.'

'Oh, go with me,' said the man; 'if we four are together we shall easily travel through the
wide world.'

So the blower got down and went with him, and after a time they saw a man who was standing
on one leg, and had unstrapped the other and laid it near him. Then said the master, 'You have
made yourself very comfortable to rest!'

'I am a runner,' answered he; 'and so that I shall not go too quickly, I have unstrapped one
leg; when I run with two legs, I go faster than a bird flies.'

'Oh, go with me; if we five are together, we shall easily travel through the wide world.' So
he went with him, and, not long afterwards, they met a man who wore a little hat, but he had
it slouched over one ear.

'Manners, manners!' said the master to him; 'don't hang your hat over one ear; you look like
a madman!'

'I dare not,' said the other, 'for if I were to put my hat on straight, there would come such
a frost that the very birds in the sky would freeze and fall dead on the earth.'

'Oh, go with me,' said the master; 'if we six are together, we shall easily travel through
the wide world.

Now the Six came to a town in which the King had proclaimed that whoever should run with his
daughter in a race, and win, should become her husband; but if he lost, he must lose his head.
This was reported to the man who declared he would compete, 'but,' he said, 'I shall let my
servant run for me.'

The King replied, 'Then both your heads must be staked, and your head and his must be guaranteed
for the winner.'

When this was agreed upon and settled, the man strapped on the runner's other leg, saying to
him, 'Now be nimble, and see that we win!' It was arranged that whoever should first bring
water out of a stream a long way off, should be the victor. Then the runner got a pitcher,
and the King's daughter another, and they began to run at the same time; but in a moment, when
the King's daughter was only just a little way off, no spectator could see the runner, and
it seemed as if the wind had whistled past. In a short time he reached the stream, filled his
pitcher with water, and turned round again. But, half way home, a great drowsiness came over
him; he put down his pitcher, lay down, and fell asleep. He had, however, put a horse's skull
which was lying on the ground, for his pillow, so that he should not be too comfortable and
might soon wake up.

In the meantime the King's daughter, who could also run well, as well as an ordinary man could,
reached the stream, and hastened back with her pitcher full of water. When she saw the runner
lying there asleep, she was delighted, and said, 'My enemy is given into my hands!' She emptied
his pitcher and ran on.

Everything now would have been lost, if by good luck the hunter had not been standing on the
castle tower and had seen everything with his sharp eyes.

'Ah,' said he, 'the King's daughter shall not overreach us;' and, loading his gun, he shot
so cleverly, that he shot away the horse's skull from under the runner's head, without its
hurting him. Then the runner awoke, jumped up, and saw that his pitcher was empty and the King's
daughter far ahead. But he did not lose courage, and ran back to the stream with his pitcher,
filled it once more with water, and was home ten minutes before the King's daughter arrived.

'Look,' said he, 'I have only just exercised my legs; that was nothing of a run.'

But the King was angry, and his daughter even more so, that she should be carried away by a
common, discharged soldier. They consulted together how they could destroy both him and his
companions.

'Then,' said the King to her, 'I have found a way. Don't be frightened; they shall not come
home again.' He said to them, 'You must now make merry together, and eat and drink,' and he
led them into a room which had a floor of iron; the doors were also of iron, and the windows
were barred with iron. In the room was a table spread with delicious food. The King said to
them, 'Go in and enjoy yourselves,' and as soon as they were inside he had the doors shut and
bolted. Then he made the cook come, and ordered him to keep up a large fire under the room
until the iron was red-hot. The cook did so, and the Six sitting round the table felt it grow
very warm, and they thought this was because of their good fare; but when the heat became still
greater and they wanted to go out, but found the doors and windows fastened, then they knew
that the King meant them harm and was trying to suffocate them.

'But he shall not succeed,' cried he of the little hat, 'I will make a frost come which shall
make the fire ashamed and die out!' So he put his hat on straight, and at once there came such
a frost that all the heat disappeared and the food on the dishes began to freeze. When a couple
of hours had passed, and the King thought they must be quite dead from the heat, he had the
doors opened and went in himself to see.

But when the doors were opened, there stood all Six, alive and well, saying they were glad
they could come out to warm themselves, for the great cold in the room had frozen all the food
hard in the dishes. Then the King went angrily to the cook, and scolded him, and asked him
why he had not done what he was told.

But the cook answered, 'There is heat enough there; see for yourself.' Then the King saw a
huge fire burning under the iron room, and understood that he could do no harm to the Six in
this way. The King now began again to think how he could free himself from his unwelcome guests.
He commanded the master to come before him, and said, 'If you will take gold, and give up your
right to my daughter, you shall have as much as you like.'

'Oh, yes, your Majesty,' answered he, 'give me as much as my servant can carry, and I will
give up your daughter.'

The King was delighted, and the man said, 'I will come and fetch it in fourteen days.'

Then he called all the tailors in the kingdom together, and made them sit down for fourteen
days sewing at a sack. When it was finished, he made the strong man who had uprooted the trees
take the sack on his shoulder and go with him to the King. Then the King said, 'What a powerful
fellow that is, carrying that bale of linen as large as a house on his shoulder!' and he was
much frightened, and thought 'What a lot of gold he will make away with!' Then he had a ton
of gold brought, which sixteen of the strongest men had to carry; but the strong man seized
it with one hand, put it in the sack, saying, 'Why don't you bring me more? That scarcely covers
the bottom!' Then the King had to send again and again to fetch his treasures, which the strong
man shoved into the sack, and the sack was only half full.

'Bring more,' he cried, 'these crumbs don't fill it.' So seven thousand waggons of the gold
of the whole kingdom were driven up; these the strong man shoved into the sack, oxen and all.

'I will no longer be particular,' he said, 'and will take what comes, so that the sack shall
be full.'

When everything was put in and there was not yet enough, he said, 'I will make an end of this;
it is easy to fasten a sack when it is not full.' Then he threw it on his back and went with
his companions.

Now, when the King saw how a single man was carrying away the wealth of the whole country he
was very angry, and made his cavalry mount and pursue the Six, and bring back the strong man
with the sack. Two regiments soon overtook them, and called to them, 'You are prisoners! lay
down the sack of gold or you shall be cut down.'

'What do you say?' said the blower, 'we are prisoners? Before that, you shall dance in the
air!' And he held one nostril and blew with the other at the two regiments; they were separated
and blown away in the blue sky over the mountains, one this way, and the other that. A sergeant-major
cried for mercy, saying he had nine wounds, and was a brave fellow, and did not deserve this
disgrace. So the blower let him off, and he came down without hurt. Then he said to him, 'Now
go home to the King, and say that if he sends any more cavalry I will blow them all into the air.'

When the King received the message, he said, 'Let the fellows go; they are bewitched.' Then
the Six brought the treasure home, shared it among themselves, and lived contentedly till the
end of their days.

 THE WIZARD KING(14)

(14) From Les fees illustres.

In very ancient times there lived a King, whose power lay not only in the vast extent of his
dominions, but also in the magic secrets of which he was master. After spending the greater
part of his early youth in pleasure, he met a Princess of such remarkable beauty that he at
once asked her hand in marriage, and, having obtained it, considered himself the happiest of men.

After a year's time a son was born, worthy in every way of such distinguished parents, and
much admired by the whole Court. As soon as the Queen thought him strong enough for a journey
she set out with him secretly to visit her Fairy godmother. I said secretly, because the Fairy
had warned the Queen that the King was a magician; and as from time immemorial there had been
a standing feud between the Fairies and the Wizards, he might not have approved of his wife's
visit.

The Fairy godmother, who took the deepest interest in all the Queen's concerns, and who was
much pleased with the little Prince, endowed him with the power of pleasing everybody from
his cradle, as well as with a wonderful ease in learning everything which could help to make
him a perfectly accomplished Prince. Accordingly, to the delight of his teachers, he made the
most rapid progress in his education, constantly surpassing everyone's expectations. Before
he was many years old, however, he had the great sorrow of losing his mother, whose last words
were to advise him never to undertake anything of importance without consulting the Fairy under
whose protection she had placed him.

The Prince's grief at the death of his mother was great, but it was nothing compared to that
of the King, his father, who was quite inconsolable for the loss of his dear wife. Neither
time nor reason seemed to lighten his sorrow, and the sight of all the familiar faces and things
about him only served to remind him of his loss. He therefore resolved to travel for change,
and by means of his magic art was able to visit every country he came to see under different
shapes, returning every few weeks to the place where he had left a few followers.

Having travelled from land to land in this fashion without finding anything to rivet his attention,
it occurred to him to take the form of an eagle, and in this shape he flew across many countries
and arrived at length in a new and lovely spot, where the air seemed filled with the scent
of jessamine and orange flowers with which the ground was thickly planted. Attracted by the
sweet perfume he flew lower, and perceived some large and beautiful gardens filled with the
rarest flowers, and with fountains throwing up their clear waters into the air in a hundred
different shapes. A wide stream flowed through the garden, and on it floated richly ornamented
barges and gondolas filled with people dressed in the most elegant manner and covered with jewels.

In one of these barges sat the Queen of that country with her only daughter, a maiden more
beautiful than the Day Star, and attended by the ladies of the Court. No more exquisitely lovely
mortal was ever seen than this Princess, and it needed all an eagle's strength of sight to
prevent the King being hopelessly dazzled. He perched on the top of a large orange tree, whence
he was able to survey the scene and to gaze at pleasure on the Princess's charms.

Now, an eagle with a King's heart in his breast is apt to be bold, and accordingly he instantly
made up his mind to carry off the lovely damsel, feeling sure that having once seen her he
could not live without her.

He waited till he saw her in the act of stepping ashore, when, suddenly swooping down, he carried
her off before her equerry in attendance had advanced to offer her his hand. The Princess,
on finding herself in an eagle's talons, uttered the most heart-breaking shrieks and cries;
but her captor, though touched by her distress, would not abandon his lovely prey, and continued
to fly through the air too fast to allow of his saying anything to comfort her.

At length, when he thought they had reached a safe distance, he began to lower his flight,
and gradually descending to earth, deposited his burden in a flowery meadow. He then entreated
her pardon for his violence, and told her that he was about to carry her to a great kingdom
over which he ruled, and where he desired she should rule with him, adding many tender and
consoling expressions.

For some time the Princess remained speechless; but recovering herself a little, she burst
into a flood of tears. The King, much moved, said, 'Adorable Princess, dry your tears. I implore
you. My only wish is to make you the happiest person in the world.'

'If you speak truth, my lord,' replied the Princess, 'restore to me the liberty you have deprived
me of. Otherwise I can only look on you as my worst enemy.'

The King retorted that her opposition filled him with despair, but that he hoped to carry her
to a place where all around would respect her, and where every pleasure would surround her. How long he stood Now
already there, and yet the time flew like rushing seconds. There were lively thoughts, that
bothered him. He saw what was going on, and saw it's not, because while the Look into it appeared,
went many thoughts in his head.

And now moving in a low frost In the upper body and went, leaving the needle fold repeated over the
sinking lids. She stared into space, pondered and pondered, until finally the fatigue they overcame
and their eyes closed. Once she blinked on fighting, then fell the
head deeper and deeper, and at last she sat motionless.

She was asleep.

"Ange, Ange," the man muttered in violent motion, again directed a long look on the sleeping
and left Gently and almost frightened by his own steps on the hard
frozen ground, creaking the place where he saw what a silent, but
had talked so eloquent language.

       

* * * * *

On the following mornings crept Ange - she learned by chance, where they have a lien against
Loans could get - with trembling heart the pawnshop and gave the money which she was so desperately
needs. She had, among other things their golden Clock - a precious Piece - and was devoted to
consideration received by the high amount even in a position to repay
their neighbor to the sum advanced.

His hesitantly granted service burned her like fire on the soul, and she could not rest until
the sum in his hands had completed.

"Who pays his debts, improving his property," said Putz, without alienation of to set the date
previously held held on the day, and dismissed without even bearing demand or offer for other cases.

In
the same afternoon made their way to make purchases, and Ben, her Helper and confidant had
become in all things, had to accompany them. When she quite taciturn herschritt next to him, he
clung tenderly to her, and when she told him their concerns to assume
a cheerful countenance looked, he looked at her with his deep eyes
and pressed her arm, she had taken when he was her little cavalier.

In the move again as expected, with about one: "You poor little guy
will !

Get nothing or "regretful words dropped against their favorite, the boy said:

"I do not want anything, I need nothing, Mama!"

"You get really nothing, my dear boy, be without fear," she operated
sympathetically.

"What I have allotted you is something that you have an urgent need and what I liked you better would
have indulged in! "

The next, the last evening before the festival wanted to Ange and Ben trimming the tree. Today
She sat still with diligent hand and worked on a woolen scarf for Jorinde, it better, but that
had to be protected and taken before cold air in eight.

Anges face was a little happier, a quiet, gentle in their train was
used.

What they achieved had it filled at least temporarily, with a happy meeting, and only one pushed
his melancholy in their thoughts: that the feast would be celebrated without Tibet. You also
thought Carlos', her husband, but mainly Teut stood in their thoughts. She sighed low on. A consuming
desire seized them after him.

They asked for his firm Agree to his view, after his participation, according to his - love.

In
looking at the clock. It was just striking ten. Yet she wanted to stay up longer than yesterday,
where they had succumbed to their sorrow to sleep.

And just at that moment she heard a noise outside at the door, and the next was the bell pulled.
Surprised, startled, she turned her gaze outside.

The Girl had already gone to rest, the children were asleep. She did not understand who so late able
to seek admission.

Instead of going into the hall, she went to the window and peered out cautiously. But as of
lightning hit it went back, because when she moved the curtain, she
looked directly next to the wall a man, whose form she could only
see the outlines of which But her features were concealed in the dark.

One moment! Then she composed herself, pressed to dampen her excitement, her hand on his heart
and asked to artificial short version: "Who is it and what you want?"

"Dear Countess! Dear friend! It's me, Teut! Do not be alarmed! I have just arrived. I must speak
to you indeed. Please, open. Forgive this late intrusion. "

Teut - so suddenly - no display - late at night - In losing his breath, almost unconscious. It
was his voice, the same voice they heard not so long and the sound
of her Heart threatened to burst.

Once again she looked out, then outweighed her foreboding sense of concern and fear. With a silent,
trembling, "I'm - I'm on!" stepped out and opened it.

Yes, it was Teut! With a stifled cry, pale as death - and when he came up to her and now took her hand - with
the burning red of the excitation poured, they stood there was no Powerful word. But when they
had reached the room when the light over his features remembered
as the tall, powerful figure appeared to her as this serious, yet
so kind Look in his eyes met her, because she followed the involuntary
movement of his hands, stepped to him, was suddenly approached and
gently weeping on his breast.

A few moments remained the two people in that silent, inner movement in which down every thought
and feeling immersed in one of the words in tears.

But then he took her and leaned her gently into a chair, leaned over
her and looked her long in her eyes.

"All you could do, and quite forget that Axel von Teut only one purpose in life this world had:
to make you happy? But I will not quarrel, but you to say that I was no longer master of my
anxiety and my fevered thoughts huddled in the sole desire: to see you again at last! And now
listen to me and interrupt Do not get me. Will you? "

In agreement quietly moving his head.

"Suppose you read first and foremost to help you explain the reason
for my sudden coming," continued Teut and unfolded a letter.

"Or no! Let me, "he interrupted himself and began Anges approval by a gentle look to obtain:

"Dear
Uncle Axel!" In listening to this scares introduction. An idea of ​​the relationship grew up
in it and has been for half a certainty.

"Do not be angry if I write you today. I do not even know your address. I had recently been crying
so much about my mom and can not see that they is sad. Dear Uncle Axel! Mom has so many concerns,
certainly. Tibet is no longer with us.

I know why. If you come, I will tell you everything. And you will come soon soon, when I ask.
Is not it, uncle? Certainly I would not write you this, but I must do it. Write me, please,
and addressed to my classmate, the third form Carl von drying in Eisenach. He will give me the
letter. But my mom never allowed by my Letters to know you.

You said it not? Please, dear uncle! And now you greetings from your loving

Claire Bennett of Fort.

Do you understand now, dear friend? Certainly, you understand, and I have now finally reached, what
I've been calling for Carlos' death, which was my right, in a unity between us, as human relationships,
they have hardly exhibit again. Let me start over, so I'll explain how it all had to make Sun
Let me and therefore fall back to prove to you that there was nothing I did in your Action did not
understand, not honored. "And with a trembling voice he called what happened back in her memory.

"Oh,
do not fight me," he said when he saw her shaking. "Do not cry! If It still tears of anger or
tears of reconciliation? Is it even - I should hope so - a Proof that I will at this moment,
the satisfaction was, after they demanded? Yes, In the women's - I thank you .-- And now you
hear more!

Teut paused, and then he said, carefully weighing his words carefully and with a Tenderness as
only peculiar to him:

"I have the following thought, beloved wife Ange: You are considering
whether or not we in a place can live together and us - as old friends
- see every day, even by our traffic give us the happiness that we
summoned next to the well being of your children or on earth can be.

When I say 'us', so please forgive the word, I would only talk to me should. I have no other wish
than to live near you and show you how I am very fed than you. Fear not overtly friendly, Ange,
I promise You that I will honor your views and intentions as a divine
commandment.

       Do you agree!

Is not it absurd that we, who already belonged to each other, as we for the first met, we complete
each other as enemies? Are not we friends? Were you when also understandably, in the terrible
contradictions of your life - not to - not much, too much to the
extreme?

Is it not also take a size to be able to? Do not misunderstand me! When I spoke, I only wish
of the natural rights of friendship fall a word leave, not an accusation I would make you, dear
friend. excuse me I wish. I was carried away by the indescribable happiness that permeates
the donors - I was missing, but you did not give a finger to me this happiness .-- I have nothing
to treat more to say .-- Now, my wife Ange, what do you think?

He got up and took both her hands, he sought her veiled eyes and pressed his soul to hers. And
then, suddenly so many drops under her eyelashes twitched as he knew that it had awarded that
it was all between them as of old.

* * * * *

Before Teut parted on the evening of Ange just described, he obtained pardon and for Tibet, since
his separation from Ange with him in Eder stayed and it also had accompanied to Eisenach.

In
the closed but not In that night.

Sun unexpectedly, so suddenly it was all about they come, so at one stroke, all things changed,
that it repeatedly to the Frontal attack, whether it be because even truth and not a dream.
Maintenance, burning flows chased through its interior.

The silent love for Teut had by seeing her in an urgent, stormy spring turns. He was by her side
and she should perhaps re- ? Lose

In the next morning as her children told Uncle Axel and Tibet are
back, and would participate in the celebration of Christmas, loud
cheers rang through the house.

Ben pushed his way to his mother when she was alone and a researcher in her eyes. "Oh, yes, yes,
you're back happy! I see it! "Squeezed out, and he embraced it.

But she put her hand on his Ever saw him and inquiring into the flaming eye.

"Did you know nothing of Uncle Axel's coming? Nothing at all? "Ben moved his head silently and pressed
his lips together.

And then suddenly shot burning blush across his face and to a quick start, he pressed his mother
again in themselves. "Do not be mad," whispered he shut her mouth
and kissing.

A touching sight was it, when Tibet at midday for the first time again the threshold of the house
entered. In was in the kitchen, as the cheering reached her. When she approached him, made he
a deep bow and waited uncertain how his mistress would meet him.

"Welcome, Tibet," said Ange, approached him and laid deeply moved her hand in his. "All is forgotten.
And "- here it broke out from their eyes so intense that the children involuntarily retired
- "forgive you - even me!"

"Oh, Madame! Madame! "Stammered the man, bowing his head.

And the festive evening came, In had blossomed in their happiness. Soft roses lay on their cheeks
and her eyes shone as if diamond drops absorbed solar radiation.

She wore the same dress - she had saved it and then sought out - which at that time its form
embraced, as Teut said goodbye and went to war.

Even a full blown rose was known to give it to the now broken out
of their Chest was like a symbol of their mature beauty.

Teut was spellbound as she stepped toward him. For him she had decorated, and the delicate perfume
of the flower penetrated intoxicating to him.

He felt as if she and her dazzling appearance does not belong in this
room, he suddenly gegenü bert devices as it was in the villa, and
all was as before.

And now, all other things had bestrickend on him. With what graceful security they prevailed in the
home as well, but how wisely they with their children, the excess,
the easy "yes" were stripped.

The mental lots, Mobile, hasty in their nature had given way, a gentle seriousness surrounding
them, which they embellished.

And with what tender regard she met him, even with what she knew the clock compensation found
between the past and today. Everything that had ever risen in him, was a burning flame. He
also sat her seriously and with careful expression over, so but his heart beat, trembling, he taught
even a quiet glance upon her, and hammered but his pulse, and once
he clenched, turned away, the strong hands and pulled back from the
overwhelming anguish that it constricts the chest.

And it was, he could not speak, and if his soul were also informed and if his Waiving his happiness
destroyed.

Once the children arrived during the evening into the
next room and Tibet followed them. Then came In the approach to Teut.

"How
beautiful you are, Mrs In," he said, took her hand and looked at her
with his deep, good eyes. In blushed like a timid girl, and her hand
trembled in the areas his.

"And as good as excellent you are, dear
friend," he went quiet and looked for her views.

He spoke, and shook
the woman next to him. Then came Ben, they differed from each other.
In the pale face of the child, it flashed. He looked surprised at
his mother and Teut Suspected him something? For a moment he stood
shocked, but then it glowed in his dark Eyes, and with an involuntary
rapid movement - gave him a God's, or did he not what he did - he
ran on both, took her hands and bowed his blond Head on the down.

"Oh,
how I love you have!" Invaded it from the boy's chest. And there is
also bent involuntarily In Teut and down and touched the boy while
the vertex.

But her cheeks are stealing each other, and love God
gave rise two flames, beat together in a fiery blaze.

The same thought
ran through her affairs: Providence's it, their hands through the
boy's bound by the proud, beautiful boy with his hot soul. This put
her hands into each other for ever.

At the Christmas tree next door,
the lights were still burning. The subtle fragrance of the needles
and wax wafted through the room in its invigorating mix. It was Christmas
- Christmas, the feast the joy! Inside came the happy laughter of
children, in between sounded rougher Tibet, but kindly voice.

And
there were the two people that were meant for each other for so long
do not more powerful their feelings.

As a storm roared through it
Teut chest like a child, he picked up In, and they embraced with their
arms to keep for life.

The hunter determined to become a shepherd, and his wife too became a shepherdess. So they
herded their sheep for many years in solitude and sadness.

Now it happened once that the shepherd came to the country where the shepherdess lived. The
neighbourhood pleased him, and he saw that the pasture was rich and suitable for his flocks.
So he brought his sheep there, and herded them as before. The shepherd and shepherdess became
great friends, but they did not recognise each other in the least.

But one evening when the moon was full they sat together watching their flocks, and the shepherd
played upon his flute. Then the shepherdess thought of that evening when she had sat at the
full moon by the mill-pond and had played on the golden flute; the recollection was too much
for her, and she burst into tears. The shepherd asked her why she was crying, and left her
no peace till she told him all her story. Then the scales fell from the shepherd's eyes, and
he recognised his wife, and she him. So they returned joyfully to their own home, and lived
in peace and happiness ever after.

THE GLASS MOUNTAIN(16)

(16) From the Polish. His first wife, a good and beautiful woman, died at the birth of her
little son, and the King her husband was so overwhelmed with grief at her loss that his only
comfort was in the sight of his heir.

When the time for the young Prince's christening came the King chose as godmother a neighbouring
Princess, so celebrated for her wisdom and goodness that she was commonly called 'the Good
Queen.' She named the baby Alphege, and from that moment took him to her heart.

Time wipes away the greatest griefs, and after two or three years the King married again. His
second wife was a Princess of undeniable beauty, but by no means of so amiable a disposition
as the first Queen. In due time a second Prince was born, and the Queen was devoured with rage
at the thought that Prince Alphege came between her son and the throne. She took care however
to conceal her jealous feelings from the King.

At length she could control herself no longer, so she sent a trusty servant to her old and
faithful friend the Fairy of the Mountain, to beg her to devise some means by which she might
get rid of her stepson.

The Fairy replied that, much as she desired to be agreeable to the Queen in every way, it was
impossible for her to attempt anything against the young Prince, who was under the protection
of some greater Power than her own.

The 'Good Queen' on her side watched carefully over her godson. She was obliged to do so from
a distance, her own country being a remote one, but she was well informed of all that went
on and knew all about the Queen's wicked designs. She therefore sent the Prince a large and
splendid ruby, with injunctions to wear it night and day as it would protect him from all attacks,
but added that the talisman only retained its power as long as the Prince remained within his
father's dominions. The Wicked Queen knowing this made every attempt to get the Prince out
of the country, but her efforts failed, till one day accident did what she was unable to accomplish.

The King had an only sister who was deeply attached to him, and who was married to the sovereign
of a distant country. She had always kept up a close correspondence with her brother, and the
accounts she heard of Prince Alphege made her long to become acquainted with so charming a
nephew. She entreated the King to allow the Prince to visit her, and after some hesitation
which was overruled by his wife, he finally consented.

Prince Alphege was at this time fourteen years old, and the handsomest and most engaging youth
imaginable. In his infancy he had been placed in the charge of one of the great ladies of the
Court, who, according to the prevailing custom, acted first as his head nurse and then as his
governess. When he outgrew her care her husband was appointed as his tutor and governor, so
that he had never been separated from this excellent couple, who loved him as tenderly as they
did their only daughter Zayda, and were warmly loved by him in return.

When the Prince set forth on his travels it was but natural that this devoted couple should
accompany him, and accordingly he started with them and attended by a numerous retinue.

For some time he travelled through his father's dominions and all went well; but soon after
passing the frontier they had to cross a desert plain under a burning sun. They were glad to
take shelter under a group of trees near, and here the Prince complained of burning thirst.
Luckily a tiny stream ran close by and some water was soon procured, but no sooner had he tasted
it than he sprang from his carriage and disappeared in a moment. In vain did his anxious followers
seek for him, he was nowhere to be found.

As they were hunting and shouting through the trees a black monkey suddenly appeared on a point
of rock and said: 'Poor sorrowing people, you are seeking your Prince in vain. Return to your
own country and know that he will not be restored to you till you have for some time failed
to recognise him.'

With these words he vanished, leaving the courtiers sadly perplexed; but as all their efforts
to find the Prince were useless they had no choice but to go home, bringing with them the sad
news, which so greatly distressed the King that he fell ill and died not long after.

The Queen, whose ambition was boundless, was delighted to see the crown on her son's head and
to have the power in her own hands. Her hard rule made her very unpopular, and it was commonly
believed that she had made away with Prince Alphege. Indeed, had the King her son not been
deservedly beloved a revolution would certainly have arisen.

Meantime the former governess of the unfortunate Alphege, who had lost her husband soon after
the King's death, retired to her own house with her daughter, who grew up a lovely and most
loveable girl, and both continued to mourn the loss of their dear Prince.

The young King was devoted to hunting, and often indulged in his favourite pastime, attended
by the noblest youths in his kingdom.

One day, after a long morning's chase he stopped to rest near a brook in the shade of a little
wood, where a splendid tent had been prepared for him. Whilst at luncheon he suddenly spied
a little monkey of the brightest green sitting on a tree and gazing so tenderly at him that
he felt quite moved. He forbade his courtiers to frighten it, and the monkey, noticing how
much attention was being paid him, sprang from bough to bough, and at length gradually approached
the King, who offered him some food. The monkey took it very daintily and finally came to the
table. The King took him on his knees, and, delighted with his capture, brought him home with
him. He would trust no one else with its care, and the whole Court soon talked of nothing but
the pretty green monkey.

One morning, as Prince Alphege's governess and her daughter were alone together, the little
monkey sprang in through an open window. He had escaped from the palace, and his manners were
so gentle and caressing that Zayda and her mother soon got over the first fright he had given
them. He had spent some time with them and quite won their hearts by his insinuating ways,
when the King discovered where he was and sent to fetch him back. But the monkey made such
piteous cries, and seemed so unhappy when anyone attempted to catch him, that the two ladies
begged the King to leave him a little longer with them, to which he consented.

One evening, as they sat by the fountain in the garden, the little monkey kept gazing at Zayda
with such sad and loving eyes that she and her mother could not think what to make of it, and
they were still more surprised when they saw big tears rolling down his cheeks.

Next day both mother and daughter were sitting in a jessamine bower in the garden, and they
began to talk of the green monkey and his strange ways. The mother said, 'My dear child, I
can no longer hide my feelings from you. I cannot get the thought out of my mind that the green
monkey is no other than our beloved Prince Alphege, transformed in this strange fashion. I
know the idea sounds wild, but I cannot get it out of my heart, and it leaves me no peace.'

As she spoke she glanced up, and there sat the little monkey, whose tears and gestures seemed
to confirm her words.

The following night the elder lady dreamt that she saw the Good Queen, who said, 'Do not weep
any longer but follow my directions. Go into your garden and lift up the little marble slab
at the foot of the great myrtle tree. You will find beneath it a crystal vase filled with a
bright green liquid. Take it with you and place the thing which is at present most in your
thoughts into a bath filled with roses and rub it well with the green liquid.'

At these words the sleeper awoke, and lost no time in rising and hurrying to the garden, where
she found all as the Good Queen had described. Then she hastened to rouse her daughter and
together they prepared the bath, for they would not let their women know what they were about.
Zayda gathered quantities of roses, and when all was ready they put the monkey into a large
jasper bath, where the mother rubbed him all over with the green liquid.

Their suspense was not long, for suddenly the monkey skin dropped off, and there stood Prince
Alphege, the handsomest and most charming of men. The joy of such a meeting was beyond words.
After a time the ladies begged the Prince to relate his adventures, and he told them of all
his sufferings in the desert when he was first transformed. His only comfort had been in visits
from the Good Queen, who had at length put him in the way of meeting his brother.

Several days were spent in these interesting conversations, but at length Zayda's mother began
to think of the best means for placing the Prince on the throne, which was his by right.

The Queen on her side was feeling very anxious. She had felt sure from the first that her son's
pet monkey was no other than Prince Alphege, and she longed to put an end to him. Her suspicions
were confirmed by the Fairy of the Mountain, and she hastened in tears to the King, her son.

'I am informed,' she cried, 'that some ill-disposed people have raised up an impostor in the
hopes of dethroning you. You must at once have him put to death.'

The King, who was very brave, assured the Queen that he would soon punish the conspirators.
He made careful inquiries into the matter, and thought it hardly probable that a quiet widow
and a young girl would think of attempting anything of the nature of a revolution.

He determined to go and see them, and to find out the truth for himself; so one night, without
saying anything to the Queen or his ministers, he set out for the palace where the two ladies
lived, attended only by a small band of followers.

The two ladies were at the moment deep in conversation with Prince Alphege, and hearing a knocking
so late at night begged him to keep out of sight for a time. What was their surprise when the
door was opened to see the King and his suite.

'I know,' said the King, 'that you are plotting against my crown and person, and I have come
to have an explanation with you.'

As she was about to answer Prince Alphege, who had heard all, came forward and said, 'It is
from me you must ask an explanation, brother.' He spoke with such grace and dignity that everyone
gazed at him with mute surprise.

At length the King, recovering from his astonishment at recognising the brother who had been
lost some years before, exclaimed, 'Yes, you are indeed my brother, and now that I have found
you, take the throne to which I have no longer a right.' So saying, he respectfully kissed
the Prince's hand.

Alphege threw himself into his arms, and the brothers hastened to the royal palace, where in
the presence of the entire court he received the crown from his brother's hand. To clear away
any possible doubt, he showed the ruby which the Good Queen had given him in his childhood.
As they were gazing at it, it suddenly split with a loud noise, and at the same moment the
Wicked Queen expired.

King Alphege lost no time in marrying his dear and lovely Zayda, and his joy was complete when
the Good Queen appeared at his wedding. She assured him that the Fairy of the Mountain had
henceforth lost all power over him, and after spending some time with the young couple, and
bestowing the most costly presents on them, she retired to her own country.

King Alphege insisted on his brother sharing his throne, and they all lived to a good old age,
universally beloved and admired.

 FAIRER-THAN-A-FAIRY

Once there lived a King who had no children for many years after his marriage. At length heaven
granted him a daughter of such remarkable beauty that he could think of no name so appropriate
for her as 'Fairer-than-a-Fairy.'

It never occurred to the good-natured monarch that such a name was certain to call down the
hatred and jealousy of the fairies in a body on the child, but this was what happened. No sooner
had they heard of this presumptuous name than they resolved to gain possession of her who bore
it, and either to torment her cruelly, or at least to conceal her from the eyes of all men.

The eldest of their tribe was entrusted to carry out their revenge. This Fairy was named Lagree;
she was so old that she only had one eye and one tooth left, and even these poor remains she
had to keep all night in a strengthening liquid. She was also so spiteful that she gladly devoted
all her time to carrying out all the mean or ill-natured tricks of the whole body of fairies.

With her large experience, added to her native spite, she found but little difficulty in carrying
off Fairer-than-a-Fairy. The poor child, who was only seven years old, nearly died of fear
on finding herself in the power of this hideous creature. However, when after an hour's journey
underground she found herself in a splendid palace with lovely gardens, she felt a little reassured,
and was further cheered when she discovered that her pet cat and dog had followed her.

The old Fairy led her to a pretty room which she said should be hers, at the same time giving
her the strictest orders never to let out the fire which was burning brightly in the grate.
She then gave two glass bottles into the Princess's charge, desiring her to take the greatest
care of them, and having enforced her orders with the most awful threats in case of disobedience,
she vanished, leaving the little girl at liberty to explore the palace and grounds and a good
deal relieved at having only two apparently easy tasks set her.

Several years passed, during which time the Princess grew accustomed to her lonely life, obeyed
the Fairy's orders, and by degrees forgot all about the court of the King her father.

One day, whilst passing near a fountain in the garden, she noticed that the sun's rays fell
on the water in such a manner as to produce a brilliant rainbow. She stood still to admire
it, when, to her great surprise, she heard a voice addressing her which seemed to come from
the centre of its rays. The voice was that of a young man, and its sweetness of tone and the
agreeable things it uttered, led one to infer that its owner must be equally charming; but
this had to be a mere matter of fancy, for no one was visible.

The beautiful Rainbow informed Fairer-than-a-Fairy that he was young, the son of a powerful
king, and that the Fairy, Lagree, who owed his parents a grudge, had revenged herself by depriving
him of his natural shape for some years; that she had imprisoned him in the palace, where he
had found his confinement hard to bear for some time, but now, he owned, he no longer sighed
for freedom since he had seen and learned to love Fairer-than-a-Fairy.

He added many other tender speeches to this declaration, and the Princess, to whom such remarks
were a new experience, could not help feeling pleased and touched by his attentions.

The Prince could only appear or speak under the form of a Rainbow, and it was therefore necessary
that the sun should shine on water so as to enable the rays to form themselves.

Fairer-than-a-Fairy lost no moment in which she could meet her lover, and they enjoyed many
long and interesting interviews. One day, however, their conversation became so absorbing and
time passed so quickly that the Princess forgot to attend to the fire, and it went out. Lagree,
on her return, soon found out the neglect, and seemed only too pleased to have the opportunity
of showing her spite to her lovely prisoner. She ordered Fairer-than-a-Fairy to start next
day at dawn to ask Locrinos for fire with which to relight the one she had allowed to go out.

Now this Locrinos was a cruel monster who devoured everyone he came across, and especially
enjoyed a chance of catching and eating any young girls. Our heroine obeyed with great sweetness,
and without having been able to take leave of her lover she set off to go to Locrinos as to
certain death. As she was crossing a wood a bird sang to her to pick up a shining pebble which
she would find in a fountain close by, and to use it when needed. She took the bird's advice,
and in due time arrived at the house of Locrinos. Luckily she only found his wife at home,
who was much struck by the Princess's youth and beauty and sweet gentle manners, and still
further impressed by the present of the shining pebble.

She readily let Fairer-than-a-Fairy have the fire, and in return for the stone she gave her
another, which, she said, might prove useful some day. Then she sent her away without doing
her any harm.

Lagree was as much surprised as displeased at the happy result of this expedition, and Fairer-than-a
Fairy waited anxiously for an opportunity of meeting Prince Rainbow and telling him her adventures.
She found, however, that he had already been told all about them by a Fairy who protected him,
and to whom he was related.

The dread of fresh dangers to his beloved Princess made him devise some more convenient way
of meeting than by the garden fountain, and Fairer-than-a-Fairy carried out his plan daily
with entire success. Every morning she placed a large basin full of water on her window-sill,
and as soon as the sun's rays fell on the water the Rainbow appeared as clearly as it had ever
done in the fountain. By this means they were able to meet without losing sight of the fire
or of the two bottles in which the old Fairy kept her eye and her tooth at night, and for some
time the lovers enjoyed every hour of sunshine together.

One day Prince Rainbow appeared in the depths of woe. He had just heard that he was to be banished
from this lovely spot, but he had no idea where he was to go. The poor young couple were in
despair, and only parted with the last ray of sunshine, and in hopes of meeting next morning.
Alas! next day was dark and gloomy, and it was only late in the afternoon that the sun broke
through the clouds for a few minutes.

Fairer-than-a-Fairy eagerly ran to the window, but in her haste she upset the basin, and spilt
all the water with which she had carefully filled it overnight. No other water was at hand
except that in the two bottles. It was the only chance of seeing her lover before they were
separated, and she did not hesitate to break the bottle and pour their contents into the basin,
when the Rainbow appeared at once. Their farewells were full of tenderness; the Prince made
the most ardent and sincere protestations, and promised to neglect nothing which might help
to deliver his dear Fairer-than-a-Fairy from her captivity, and implored her to consent to
their marriage as soon as they should both be free. The Princess, on her side, vowed to have
no other husband, and declared herself willing to brave death itself in order to rejoin him.

They were not allowed much time for their adieus; the Rainbow vanished, and the Princess, resolved
to run all risks, started off at once, taking nothing with her but her dog, her cat, a sprig
of myrtle, and the stone which the wife of Locrinos gave her.

When Lagree became aware of her prisoner's flight she was furious, and set off at full speed
in pursuit. She overtook her just as the poor girl, overcome by fatigue, had lain down to rest
in a cave which the stone had formed itself into to shelter her. The little dog who was watching
her mistress promptly flew at Lagree and bit her so severely that she stumbled against a corner
of the cave and broke off her only tooth. Before she had recovered from the pain and rage this
caused her, the Princess had time to escape, and was some way on her road. Fear gave her strength
for some time, but at last she could go no further, and sank down to rest. As she did so, the
sprig of myrtle she carried touched the ground, and immediately a green and shady bower sprang
up round her, in which she hoped to sleep in peace.

But Lagree had not given up her pursuit, and arrived just as Fairer-than-a-Fairy had fallen
fast asleep. This time she made sure of catching her victim, but the cat spied her out, and,
springing from one of the boughs of the arbour she flew at Lagree's face and tore out her only
eye, thus delivering the Princess for ever from her persecutor.

One might have thought that all would now be well, but no sooner had Lagree been put to fight
than our heroine was overwhelmed with hunger and thirst. Before
the guest took his leave, he had better or worse, or an invitation to an immediately upcoming
dinner take. What a triumph for Mrs. Olga, surely one of the habitual had feared cancellations at the
last moment, when the much-talked to the real Baron appointed hour arrived and are thus permanently
won for the house seemed Inksche. But also another long-pursued plan hoped to Olga by the approach
the Captain reached. Claire also forts were among the persons with whom she did not was able
to come into close contact with, and now she found a comfortable and, as she supposed, see secure
connection by Teut The aristocratic family at once taking a look to throw in the local household or
even communicate with Claire continuously, was to those longing desires, the fulfillment they
hardly dared to hope.

Even at lunch - Teut had occurred as the last guest to honor the wife of to lead the House -
Olga brought the conversation to Claire forts, but this more skillfully. He talked briefly and
regret that his friend physically and mentally ill go that the Countess, in consequence, withdrawing
more and more from all the socializing I and must, moreover, the most perfect woman under God's
sun was. He was also something about his person and his circumstances fall and said that the
administration of his possessions by another hand, some drawbacks with them. He is, however, he
added, a creature of habit and also filed a soldier, only his craft, his horses and love the
hunt and it will be as convenient but that he, for example, an invitation from his Cousin to
a calculated for eight days knocked out on the festivities goods have.

Only one thing he could have determined to make his call relatives, amounting the desire to work
out that this inveterate bachelor finally married.

"Ah, you say?"

Cried Lady of Ink, particularly intrigued by this conversation, "You, the Yes they are almost a
woman-hater, that is - with one exception, "she added, smiling.

"I dispute this decision, ma'am," Teut said, ignoring the final sentence.

"I adore women like everything beautiful in the world, but I have
no luck and no skill dealings with them.

Also - the older you get - "

"You talk about age?"

Teut nodded. "Certainly, what do you think me, madam?"

"Well, at least you are in the best - in the age of marriage. What,
dear?

"Interrupted apologetically, when suddenly behind her chair Eva came and sent a message to
them.

Teut pushed back-like, while the ladies exchanged a few words, and
also observed he exact Olgas daughter.

Eva was like a wild rose in her appearance: she was in the That pretty much, but the face was
dull.

"I beg your pardon!" Olga turned back to her guest.

"A beautiful young girl," said Teut binding and governed by a certain
intention.

"They have the same evidence that it is impossible not to admire the women."

Olga looked with a touch more pleasant surprise to the party. Had
it right heard?

She knew from Teut that he probably coarseness, but rarely used to say pretty things.

"Ah, you scoffers," she replied, with the intention to listen more. Teut but smiled and said
nothing.

He liked to have them in doubt. At last he said:

"Their two youngest - twins, if I mistake not - are equally charming.

This is very bad. "

"Bad? How so? even assuming the correctness of your flattering assertion. "

"Now bad so far, madam! as yet no one to marry two women can, and because to choose one of
them, in addition to the highest satisfaction of the property at the same time the highest cause pain
over a certain loss of dignity. "

"I guess you do a bit of ridicule," said Olga. "Absolutely - and thus as an open confession
- after I finally got the luck you can get to know, but I think the
confirmation of what you have told me so often.

"

"Just a confirmation?" Joked Teut "I was hoping that my description of the person far surpass,
for I am sure you will find nothing but good.

"

"Who knows? You are the first man who met me in life, before his sarcasm I I'm afraid. "

Like half and half compliments blame has to say loved wife Olga.

You had numerous ready if they wanted to attract someone.

To her surprise, Teut said gravely:

"It maybe something Legitimate is that, ma'am. I am as honest hater of social lies and retaliation
that I ruthlessly my opinion, often express my abhorrence.

And of course, anyone who does not play with comedy, is naturally feared. "

Olga came in a slightly uncomfortable feeling, it was almost inconceivable
that a man of such a good education as Teut this remark was pointed
against them personally, but on the other hand, they could hardly
be otherwise, as they refer to themselves.

It was also in their nature, do not like to go, for her wisdom, she left only Too often, when
their sensitivity or their vanity wounded.

She said Therefore, in a rather abrupt tone

"No, my fear is based on something else, sir. As you point out, could yes give our traffic is absolutely
no reason for such! "

"Of course," Teut said seriously, but left an infamous train ironic corners of his mouth . Play
"And please, more, my lady?"

Olga picked up some excitement in the glass that had just filled Teut,
drank it hastily , and replied, with difficulty hiding their displeasure:

"I
love the level of awareness and openness as you.

This I can only meet with respect and I will never inspire unease. But your - "She stopped.

"Well,
ma'am?"

"Ah, no matter!"

Was Olga and shrugged his shoulders.

"What, my lady," Teut said in a mandatory tone, yet with the same devilish Smile, "you invite me into
your otherwise incomparable house and want me on the rack ? Tension Is that Christian? I ask
- if not somewhat doubtful to me to be the result to - "

"Yes, yes! This is it! You are wicked! It's you now! This is a property that I, however, inspires
fear, yes, I hate, for there are no weapons against this. "

At this moment M. de Ink struck his glass and took one of his usual mindless Health.

Also, the woman appealed to Olga.

"Very, very pretty!" Threw Teut and moved his head.

Olga could kill him with a silver fish knife.

After dinner we went into the garden and took the coffee.

Next was a trip on horseback and carriages planned.

Before Inkschen the grooms were already home with the horses and the
coachman waiting on the box.

Teut, usually calculated in a delicately built for two cars drove langgeschweifte and its dark
black race were envied him on all sides, offered Mrs. Olga the place
in his carriage.

She was very happy with this award, more so than In so far only woman Claire Fort enjoyed one which
had certainly enjoyed it so often that the had occupied slander selfish
mouth of the city this cart already has a nickname.

The afternoon was glorious.

They had dined earlier with regard to the trip, and it waved pleasant hours.

When everything had come together appropriately, was captain of chirping,
the most frequent guest the house, a not entirely bad, but because
of his inconsiderate chatter Teut not too sympathetic comrade, the
signal for departure, and the merry cavalcade continued in motion.

Even in the downhill a lot people had gathered that the drivers in their colorful Liveries and wondered
at the magnificent horses. Above all, Teut drove with his wife Olga. His Renner flew, and in
fact it was understandable that the eyes of the population is particularly focused on this
vehicle. Was it you used to only be on the side of the Captain to see, but now the equally much-talked-wife
of ink next to the bizarre captain dahinkutschierte.

With a large power saw Olga, contrary to the moment it's at the Fort Claire Villa would pass.
Whether Teut look over well, probably by chance if the Countess on
the balcony or will be in the garden?

Olga's triumph over the much-envied woman was a consummate been! But when they reached the villa,
the house was surrounded by its magnificent park deserted. Not even one of the children, and
none of the servants was visible.

Suddenly, the horses made - used to keep here - a quick lateral movement,
and Olga seized involuntarily Teut arm by uttering a faint cry.

"What, madam," asked Teut and briefly turned his eyes in rapid succession
by the Villa to animals and from these to her.

Olga said apologetically, and the car hurried on.

"You seem a little anxious to be! Do you think I'm going slower, "he continued, and put on the reins.

Olga
said no, although the opposite was the case.

"In addition to such a perfect horse driver can feel no fear," she
said in her flattering tone falling back, but she is preparing to
have just used that word, because Teut remembered and laughed and
said:

"Ah, so on the box I am not dangerous, ma'am?

If you deceive not only be! "

After several conversations between Olga again brought the issue to
Ange.

They insisted hear any more about it from his mouth.

"Madame Claire Fort is probably an excellent horsewoman and is, as I hear, even with fours amazing
drive safely? "

! However, it is unparalleled, "said Teut, breaking off short, Olga
did - with the Whip into the distance looking - attention to a very
nice spot and indulged on this and the neighborhood in lively praise.

Olga understand. He did not want to talk about Claire fort. It annoyed that these people he to speak
as his domain and considered to indicate by his dodging the distance do seemed that lay between her
and Ange.

She decided yet another attempt to make.

Perhaps she was even one Prejudice! She accepted the latter because
they wanted it.

"It interests me very much about women to learn from Claire Fort," she began. "I remember not
me, ever come across such a beautiful and interesting woman, and
would as See a favor to her in person may come nearer.

It should again become very seriously and are devoted almost exclusively to the education of
their children?

By the way, what a band of adorable creatures! "

Teut fell at these words Anges sadness and all that again, which occupied him so vividly. He,
too, was attracted by the somewhat intrusive nature Olgas, after he set sufficiently to light had
he not wanted to talk about his friends. He said therefore, no corresponding its kind:

"My friends from their use have previously mentioned reasons, substantially
restricted and live a very secluded.

Otherwise I would be willing to pleasure, Your Ladyship to forward requests, ma'am, and I am
convinced that you would find confirmation of what I told you already
at the table about the family.

Moreover, it is possible that our Claire Forts to leave as soon as the count took his leave. "

"He
takes his leave," asked Olga, at the same time by moving their thanks for Teut Expressing readiness.
"I think it gives him the count."

"Who said that?" Continued to Teut and turned with a quick bend in a side path.

"Well, I heard so, sir. I am however informed by the tone of your
question and please forgiveness.

By the way Clairefortsche circulate about the family so many contradictory Messages and makes
them so often the subject of the conversation that it is difficult to imagine a to design
fairly accurate picture of the same. "

Teut listened to tense.

Both hands were occupied, and only too happy he had his mustache rotated. "What? My quiet living,
lovable friends will be discussed so much? It is the first time I
hear this.

Well, I guess you can say only good things from them, my Woman, "he said with forced nonchalance.

Olga was silent.

As they saw their plans frustrated, they wanted at least their small woman revenge.

Teut let the horses go at a walk, with a view not to be misunderstood saw his companion and said:

"They
are silent, my dear lady.

I ask because you even touched the subject. "

Well!

Olga thought and went out, "it sets you in amazement that one of a lady speaks, she has such different
habits as Mrs Claire Fort, the rides and even sits on the box that
is so beautiful and so lively, that man with the world before his
mysterious valet closes, and with such an unusual expenses must be
Household set up, suddenly they say - to introduce an almost anxious
economy '

Olga broke off.

What she said was not offensive, but she knew that offend every word Teut had.

"They spoke not of me. I belong to but also the objects of this very unnecessary Views of the
honorable public.

Will not you be so good, now also the views attached to me, "said Teut, without moving a muscle.

"I
just the facts, conclude from those judgments and views, think again given have, sir. "

"Quite right, madam.

And the facts that relate to me? "

"They are daily guest in the house and always appear publicly alongside Mrs Claire Fort -"

"However, and further, if you please?"

"Now, therefore, believes the public have a right to make observations,
which, however, and of course, condemned any unprejudiced person.

"

"Ah, excellent! And these are impartial and you, madame, and the intimate
Your house, Lord of cicada?

"

The tone in the Teut said these words, however, was impertinent, even
offensive, but the View, "said the Olga admitted to nothing.

The conversation ceased, and under a very painful feeling put both
the other Part of the way back.

Teut before a curtain was pulled back, the background frightened him. He bit his lips and grinding
his teeth. This angel had to be suspicious daring, and a woman as his companion found a malicious
pleasure in playing such Chatter.

Teut Olga saw through all too well. As he put it, the View, with In Touch to connect, she dropped
the mask and showed her true colors -

Wallowed in anger and regret it. She felt that she had lost everything through this conversation.
She missed maybe even what they would have a little more self-control to get can: the future for
dealing with them all too interesting captain.

And this insight, but also the hope that he might forget, they led,
First again to take the floor and in an unbiased manner as possible
indifferent discussions that to touch.

It was facilitated her blogs, because people were now close to the targets, and some Men, including
several from Teut comrades herangaloppierend to the car approached.

"We have feared that Captain of Teut you intend to kidnap, madam!"
cried one of them, a young scholar.

"They were completely caught us, and we have Effort had to catch you. But there are also other,
"he continued, and in fact stob a cloud of gray dust in the nebula to horses' heads, flashing buttons
and bare Uniforms recognized.

Teut, thinking of everything, had sent ahead his groom. As one of destination arrived, since
this was already waiting in reception and took the vehicle.

While Teut Olga lifted from the car, she pressed his hand slightly
and whispered, "You are out of tune, Captain.

Our good friend has just begun yet suffered any impact? I hope not. "

Teut said, 'You were right with your fears, my lady. I take half the
doubt which I expressed at the table, now all the way back. "

After
that, he bowed politely and left Olga and affected by an interpretation
of its Words are looking for.

How much their mood suffered through
this incident, had it received a strong Klara Evidence that, following
a good impulse came, hastened to her, and after her health inquired.
Without their answer to it or to give thanks at all, there was Olga
to her:

"My God, you just sit back the hat and how you have trimmed
your dress! Look! Like a harp girl You look! Go and arrange your toilet!
"

And immediately after these words spoken in an outrageous tone,
she turned to her charming smile to one of the men who approached
her and offered her his arm.

Klara was a moment deathly pale. Her
eyes filled with tears of anger, and her face was glowing with excitement.

The
company took a short walk away, the aim was a pretty grove was a dinner
on a terrace, which one belonging to the inn garden limited. Left
and right sides of the same dragged on the road, and almost Looking
at the stream.

It was indeed a very nice point. Slowly moved from
the twilight already half devoured, over large sailing vessels, mysteriously
emerging from the flood, a dream image of belonging to be not the
agents hard day's work appeared.

But over there you could see the
steel-gray, from the delicate, reddish sunset light framed Water surface,
the larger sailing vessels replaced by the mirror-like quiet tide,
and the increased between them and smaller boats by the contrast sively
searching around the majestic Rest of their appearance.

In the night
sleeping already rested the woods over there sounded peaceful song,
sometimes sounded a bright hello via the water, and from the opposite
bank, where the glittering lights the inns flashed penetrated even
over low military music.

Beyond all of this: beautiful happy about
the silver steel tide, on the silent bushes, on the gliding vehicles,
on people with serious or carefree idea floated the moon in the blue
sky and sent his dark world of luminous, ghostly light down.

In the
whole wide circle one huge, snow-white cloud with giant tentacles
and Wings, hovering just above the moon, transfixed, motionless, as
if the beauty magic solidifies.

Teut stood at the edge of the parapet
and looked over the landscape. The other had rose, for now it rattled
over the nearby bridge, and flew in on a fast run, a Car there. Clearly
people and things were still recognizable.

And then suddenly rang
out from the child's mouth and loud cheering cry of "Uncle Axel! Uncle
Axel! " and hurrying out of the car waving hands, and a beautiful
young woman that the car drew nodded, lively, and bowed, observing
the society, with embarrassed politeness the Head. It was Ange, who,
returning from one of her trips, now rapidly pushed home.

As she
sat there with the make, on the delicate shoulders, head resting,
swept by the white veil that floated out into the evening air, so
light and graceful in appearance and yet so firm and secure government
control of the rapid and impatient horses, had they attract the attention
of the people. In a few seconds but it was the look-ends vanished,
and all eyes turned instinctively to Teut

There was probably no one
in the society, did not rule the same idea, and a they also gave this
expression. It was the assessor, with the insistent confidentiality
to Teut approached and easily threw out:

"There was so your small,
charming countess, sir -"

But he said not because Teut turned with
his strong bony Gnugesicht to him, and as he looked at the speaker
with a look, before his own, those involuntarily lowered to the ground,
he said, with overlapping rejection:

"There was the Countess of Claire
In the fort, sir! The popular expression you had disrespectful and
highly inappropriate! You will have the goodness, this is for future
cases to remember! "

And then he turned his back to the Assessor
reprimanded and went up to Clare of ink, with which he, without noticing
the rest of society for the rest of the evening but, only employed.

He
also offered to spotting the moment when Olga chose a seat next to
Baron of chirping, that his car and drove to his groom behind him,
hurried back to town. Its adoption of inks was very polite but formal.

Far away, in North America, where the Red Indians dwell, there lived a long time ago a beautiful
maiden, who was lovelier than any other girl in the whole tribe. Many of the young braves sought
her in marriage, but she would listen to one only--a handsome chief, who had taken her fancy
some years before. So they were to be married, and great rejoicings were made, and the two
looked forward to a long life of happiness together, when the very night before the wedding
feast a sudden illness seized the girl, and, without a word to her friends who were weeping
round her, she passed silently away.

The heart of her lover had been set upon her, and the thought of her remained with him night
and day. He put aside his bow, and went neither to fight nor to hunt, but from sunrise to sunset
he sat by the place where she was laid, thinking of his happiness that was buried there. At
last, after many days, a light seemed to come to him out of the darkness. He remembered having
heard from the old, old people of the tribe, that there was a path that led to the Land of
Souls--that if you sought carefully you could find it.

So the next morning he got up early, and put some food in his pouch and slung an extra skin
over his shoulders, for he knew not how long his journey would take, nor what sort of country
he would have to go through. Only one thing he knew, that if the path was there, he would find
it. At first he was puzzled, as there seemed no reason he should go in one direction more than
another. Then all at once he thought he had heard one of the old men say that the Land of Souls
lay to the south, and so, filled with new hope and courage, he set his face southwards. For
many, many miles the country looked the same as it did round his own home. The forests, the
hills, and the rivers all seemed exactly like the ones he had left. The only thing that was
different was the snow, which had lain thick upon the hills and trees when he started, but
grew less and less the farther he went south, till it disappeared altogether. Soon the trees
put forth their buds, and flowers sprang up under his feet, and instead of thick clouds there
was blue sky over his head, and everywhere the birds were singing. Then he knew that he was
in the right road.

The thought that he should soon behold his lost bride made his heart beat for joy, and he sped
along lightly and swiftly. Now his way led through a dark wood, and then over some steep cliffs,
and on the top of these he found a hut or wigwam. An old man clothed in skins, and holding
a staff in his hand, stood in the doorway; and he said to the young chief who was beginning
to tell his story, 'I was waiting for you, wherefore you have come I know. It is but a short
while since she whom you seek was here. Rest in my hut, as she also rested, and I will tell
you what you ask, and whither you should go.'

On hearing these words, the young man entered the hut, but his heart was too eager within him
to suffer him to rest, and when he arose, the old man rose too, and stood with him at the door.
'Look,' he said, 'at the water which lies far out yonder, and the plains which stretch beyond.
That is the Land of Souls, but no man enters it without leaving his body behind him. So, lay
down your body here; your bow and arrows, your skin and your dog. They shall be kept for you
safely.'

Then he turned away, and the young chief, light as air, seemed hardly to touch the ground;
and as he flew along the scents grew sweeter and the flowers more beautiful, while the animals
rubbed their noses against him, instead of hiding as he approached, and birds circled round
him, and fishes lifted up their heads and looked as he went by. Very soon he noticed with wonder,
that neither rocks nor trees barred his path. He passed through them without knowing it, for
indeed, they were not rocks and trees at all, but only the souls of them; for this was the
Land of Shadows.

So he went on with winged feet till he came to the shores of a great lake, with a lovely island
in the middle of it; while on the bank of the lake was a canoe of glittering stone, and in
the canoe were two shining paddles.

The chief jumped straight into the canoe, and seizing the paddles pushed off from the shore,
when to his joy and wonder he saw following him in another canoe exactly like his own the maiden
for whose sake he had made this long journey. But they could not touch each other, for between
them rolled great waves, which looked as if they would sink the boats, yet never did. And the
young man and the maiden shrank with fear, for down in the depths of the water they saw the
bones of those who had died before, and in the waves themselves men and women were struggling,
and but few passed over. Only the children had no fear, and reached the other side in safety.
Still, though the chief and the young girl quailed in terror at these horrible sights and sounds,
no harm came to them, for their lives had been free from evil, and the Master of Life had said
that no evil should happen unto them. So they reached unhurt the shore of the Happy Island,
and wandered through the flowery fields and by the banks of rushing streams, and they knew
not hunger nor thirst; neither cold nor heat. The air fed them and the sun warmed them, and
they forgot the dead, for they saw no graves, and the young man's thoughts turned not to wars,
neither to the hunting of animals. And gladly would these two have walked thus for ever, but
in the murmur of the wind he heard the Master of Life saying to him, 'Return whither you came,
for I have work for you to do, and your people need you, and for many years you shall rule
over them. At the gate my messenger awaits you, and you shall take again your body which you
left behind, and he will show you what you are to do. Listen to him, and have patience, and
in time to come you shall rejoin her whom you must now leave, for she is accepted, and will
remain ever young and beautiful, as when I called her hence from the Land of Snows.'

THE WHITE DUCK

Once upon a time a great and powerful King married a lovely Princess. No couple were ever so
happy; but before their honeymoon was over they were forced to part, for the King had to go
on a warlike expedition to a far country, and leave his young wife alone at home. Bitter were
the tears she shed, while her husband sought in vain to soothe her with words of comfort and
counsel, warning her, above all things, never to leave the castle, to hold no intercourse with
strangers, to beware of evil counsellors, and especially to be on her guard against strange
women. We do not want your precious time one
minutes take longer in demand! "

The baroness thanked her with kind words and tied the request because
of the baroque ideas of their daughter to have nothing to be known.

In the large entrance hall at ground level, the audience pressed yet, so that the couple do not
could move forward as quickly as it wanted.

Half angry with her husband, who did not make it this way or that cleared the way, insulted half
by people who do not stand by itself before it fell back, still the baroness, as Suddenly something
moved them to turn the gaze to the side, and quite close to the face
saw a man, who, as it seemed, looked with scorn intrusive.

By angrily turned away, [TN1] they saw a striking pin in his tie, and it was her at once clear
that the man was Deruga.

A feeling of weakness and nausea came over her. "Why do not we go further," she said violently
to her husband, urging him by the arm forward.

He noticed her irritation, doubled his efforts to carve a path through the crowd, and brought
them within minutes to the waiting car. With the expression of extreme exhaustion, she threw herself
into the corner of Rear seat.

"Have you seen Deruga," she said to her husband, who asked, worried about her health, "And how
bold he was staring at me? It is incomprehensible that these people can walk around freely leaves.
As horrible as I had not imagined. "

"You have it but not now seen for the first time," said the astonished
baron.

"I know no one without a glass," she said irritably, the "You know that. I do not know how I
want to recover from this impression. Is not it outrageous that I defenseless of revenge this
man am suspended? I will feel a moment of my life more secure. "

For that matter, "said the Baron, she could be calm, a defendant or
suspect was always careful.

"And some people always believe what is most convenient," she added.

You'll even think calmer when they had dined, the Baron predicted good-natured. You was about
hungry, tired and attacked by the bad air. This is still by Mingo caused shock came. She should rest
in the afternoon, instead of re- hours in the musty courtroom imprison and disgusting exciting
impressions suspend.

He was ready to go and to report their detailed report, in any case the next hearing would bring nothing
new.

This acted in did so. Dear wife of Castle, the owner of the board in the second Home, said principal
adverse, that they have only fine audience that never heard of their retirees had happened
that she could not say anything end the process subject. You could not of course answer for anyone who
ask for rooms with her, and keep records they could not even about
everyone who came, but they refuse to relinquish anything to say about
the traffic end at their estates.

She begged urgently, that the living with her incommode fine gentlemen not with questions and
inquiries would to any could result in result.

After this delicate lady appeared Rübsamen woman, the wife of the composer and music writer on
the second floor of the third house, and excused her husband, who was ill and in general too nervous
to appear as a witness, since the very notion, in such a process to be intertwined and got
him into morbid excitement. He was after all a artistic temperament, you can not deal with him
as with ordinary people. He had but nothing can avail, for his memory was weak, and if he efforts
do in order to think, he got nervous conditions.

Herself besänne however still probably on the 2nd October as the Ursula
them in the morning I asked, if possible, to take a little consideration,
Ms Swieter have such a bad Night and could perhaps have had some sleep
during the day.

Course would take her husband and they respect you. Swieter woman would be a pleasant party was,
and had her husband always said he could not appreciate it enough because they did not play
the piano and otherwise no instrument exercised, only the disease had been embarrassing to
him. The idea of ​​having a Dying or dead in the house to have had, that very unbearable for
her husband now I live a family of them who did gymnastics together every morning and evening,
and her husband say almost daily, he would however like to take on the poor woman Swieter consideration
when the only Turner could not have his head. You would have done their part and the piano tuner
sent away. It was already the time was where her husband used to keep quiet lunch.

An hour later, a gentleman had called, she would have him but not
really a fine gentleman considered.

He would have asked Mr. Rübsamen would like to check his voice, whether It was worth the trouble,
they train to leave. You would have the Lord in the salon and It said her husband, who would
have wondered what it would be for a man what she had said, before
her, he would like a trooper, or at most an upholsterer.

Such people did not hear often that some poor devil had made his
fortune through his beautiful voice, and if they could then shout
so right that shook the walls, they imagined that they would born
for the art.

Well, then her husband would have had no desire to check the of votes in any case would be a
thankless task.

If you wanted to dissuade the people they would often rather coarse, and for a nervous man
as Mr. Rapeseed is the poison.

Their task would it be the excuse in such cases, so a person with good manners, and this time
they would have done by them to have said that her husband was not home, he wants to come back
another time. It must however say he would never again seen again.

Whether they have asked the Lord for his name, asked Dr. = = Zeunemann.

"No,

no," said Mrs. Rapeseed, "I just wanted to get involved as much. Well, after a few years, he is
perhaps Mirabilio or Birbanti. "

"That leads to nothing," said Dr. = = Zeunemann softly to his neighbor,
behind the hand yawned.

"I knew it before."

"Enough, enough," said the assessor as well.

Whether you've rung around noon, a beggar or hawker with her, asked
Dr. = = Zeunemann yet, but interrupted the witness, as they began
to discuss a number of ways in the call, just tell what she knows
determined.

Something specific with respect to to know, however, Mrs. Rübsamen with determination of the
hand, as the investigation was completed on suspicious visitors to
the house on the fateful day for the time being.

= VIII =

"That was nice of you that you have deposited the security deposit
for me," said Peter to Deruga Bunny by giving him her hand.

"Just as you, gentleman through and through. I am your obedient servant. "

A tinge of red colored the pale face of the writer.

"You promised me firmly that my name should not be called," he said, the Eye brows. "I do not understand
how you could leave it."

Deruga laughed.

"I would have put a trap, and you are gone in," he said.

"So you Are there really. To do that I am a good judge! If I could sit still Like the German,
I would perhaps also a poet. "

"Better than me," said Peter Rabbit seriously.

"They understand it better in any case, your Life to write poetry. "

"This is probably for you rather dry," said Deruga. »Society Lion, rich woman, Favorite of the audience,
privy, nor about the personal nobility. Somewhat schematic, but quite comfortable. How? Always in a so-slightly
perfumed atmosphere. "

"I want to spend the evening with you," said Peter Rabbit distracting. "If you do nothing better
? Plan "

"That would be bed and sleep," said Deruga. "Both are wonderful, but I can always have However,
they might just today.

Join us, Judicial Council, "he turned to his lawyer.

He said he needed to look after his family, for half an hour he got still time. He was pleased,
he said, as she hurried off in the room of a restaurant in Were eating,
meet Peter Rabbit.

Although he was only a simple-minded professional people, have no Time left for the beautiful
literature, he considers the reputation of Hase's name reached him. In his youth he had held
for a gourmet and connoisseur in the arts, the But most youthful egotism was.

"I think so too," said Deruga. "A fine steak, a little bloody, Grilled, They understand it better.
"

The counselor smiled good-naturedly. "Well," he said, "this study has one every day Opportunity,
a good book is rare. And you know, true stories that I would read. One can learn something. But to be
guided by other people's fantasies on the nose, to me my time is too precious. "

"Life is unfortunately generally commonplace and boring," said Peter
Rabbit, "and the seal is a beautiful, be more colorful carpet.

"

"Yes," said Deruga, a purple sea of ​​monsters, miracles, treasures
and rarities.

" Green glass, sweet as opal, black like storm, inexhaustible, unfathomable, always charming Births
living ferment and greedy after all. But it is still just life. "

Peter Rabbit Deruga considered carefully, in whose eyes the narrow conceptions of seemed to reflect.
"They are just a poet for the feelings," he said. "You feel makes it so. "

"And basically it's all the same nasty dirt road," said Deruga in
a different tone.

"Well, since you go back too far," said the counselor. "Let's look
at our process!

They are just original enough to me, and the Baroness Truschkowitz any case, no usual number. "

"I do this type women," was a fast Deruga hate.

"Selfish, greedy, limited, cold and ever eager for new sensations. Without money, she was a prostitute.
"

"But, but, my dear sir," said the counselor, gently scolding, "since you seem to me to be a little
biased. "

"So," said Deruga, heat up, "you find it decent, greed and money a stranger to suspect of the murder?
A man who has done her no harm? What a Attitude!

I was an aging woman who was my wife, the mother of my only, my expensive, holy child, kill, because
to me no money, or not enough wanted to give money perhaps, a few months earlier to come into
the possession of their property? I swear the I you would never have such thoughts. "

"God," said the counselor, things like "Come yet available. One can not life ever seen in pink
lighting.

There are already people for a few coins have been killed.

Also, you forgot or want to forget that the Baroness will not this motive explicitly down under
has, and if it is for vindictive, fierce and tollköpfig keeps doing
it to you actually not far wrong.

"

Deruga rested his head on his hand and did not answer.

"I feel obliged to tell you," Peter Rabbit began after a pause, "that I had made the Baroness
at your request a visit. They gave me the impression a lady.

"

"What an impression it should have to do?" Deruga said sharply. "One street cleaning woman or
a groom? By the way, it's all the same. You will probably with the famous Writers flirt. "

She flirts no longer than it does any lady, "said Peter Rabbit.

"Even in a particularly tasteful, age-appropriate manner. I happen instead as if the desire
in her surfaced, I should marry her daughter.

They spoke to me again and again of her daughter. "

"Well," said Deruga, mocking laugh, "prostitute and madam, that's almost the same. Only It is
very common to marry off his own daughter.

A woman who know the men must. You will agree with me, gentlemen,
we all duly rolled in the mud.

"

"However, we are not as pure as a girl of good family," said Peter Rabbit unchanged calmly and
politely, "but I do not know if that would ever want to. The women themselves It apparently
do not. "

"No, apparently they love the dirt," said Deruga. "Basta how you feel about the little Baroness?
"

"Before I had seen and spoken," said Peter Rabbit, "I abstain from any decision. Since their
property is not extraordinary, it must have unusual qualities needed for a Marriage to be considered.
"

"On my property, you expect not," said Deruga.

"This is decent and very understanding. While the Germans are good dogs, but an Italian stag
when he might not as fast running, is clever and can not catch themselves. "

"You are now vexed Deruga," said the counselor, rising to recommend to "And in your situation
I would be there perhaps. As for the German dog, I can Although not walk very good, but fairly
bark and bite, and put myself in you this regard are available.

Goodbye! "

"Thank God, after tomorrow," said Deruga, where an attempt, amiable smile, failed. "Tomorrow
is Sunday."

But perhaps he would audition for the purpose of a short meeting, "said Fein.

"Very well," said Deruga, "anyway Sunday the suicide car on the course of life, Monday is a gravedigger.
"

= IX .=

Sunday was, however Deruga charitable unexpectedly by a friend of his childhood and youth arrived,
Dr. = = Gabussi Carlo, a country doctor in a village above Belluno,
the newspaper reports causes of the process had to come to Munich
to Deruga possibly assist.

The friends hugged and kissed again and again, and it took a while to to conduct a coherent conversation
were capable.

"Are you coming really because of me, Carlo, dear boy?"

Said Deruga. "That's the trouble not worth the trip, the cost and all that "

"Nonsense," said Gabussi, "I was glad to have the opportunity to travel.

I'm from Ten years down did not come from my blessed village. But if I got something for you
could do, I would be happy. Just think of the many sacrifices that
you made me have, once again to give something! "

"I give you?" Laughed
Deruga. "Do you think that you were sitting day after day for months
with me when I sick in hospital was? "

"Well," said Gabussi, "you
are not please me sick, but I could come to you and did not need to
be always at home where there is so little entertainment for me was.
You listened to me when I told of my beloved, and made for me poems
for them. "

Deruga asked how she was, and whether they had still
not married.

"No," said Gabussi with a touch of melancholy. "Because
my mother lives with me; and that my poor sister is lame, I can not
put a good nor a woman. Money they could earn in my village and not,
for a married teacher is not employed. But I'm so happy that I have
my mother still! She is now so Easily that I can wear on one arm,
and I wear them to bed every night, although she is afraid, but I
can not help it, and basically she has it too much. Of course, My
Lisa now has a few white hairs in her beautiful black hair. Me to
see so left behind like a silver track, the caressing hand of God.
Can you imagine the ? Think And when I see them as good and happy
children between their school, then I will probably the heart narrow,
and I think that if you so hung our children by the hand! But this
is so selfish and wrong, when I think how good I am, compared for
example with you, my Dodo, my dear old boy! How could you but only
in those infernal mess get involved! No, not now speak of it if you
do not like! We have time, I stay with you as long as you need me.
"

"The mess I will be blessed," said Deruga, "because without them
I would have you so soon not seen Gabussi! You're a bit thin now,
but otherwise all the dear, old, honest, frightened face! "

"But
you're my bronze David is no longer," said Gabussi. "You look gray,
the comes from the lack of air and exercise. Let us take a walk -
or, even better, I suppose a car, and you show me the city and the
surrounding country. "

The day was gray and soft, and the open car
drove slowly through the streets of thawing, the Drizzle drops as
the convoy accompanied by a musical. Deruga sat comfortably reclined
and gave answers to the questions Gabussis, the delighted the stately
squares and buildings. In a quiet street to the coachman, whose discretion
they left the lead gave in, Deruga suddenly saw a wrought iron gate.
The paved road to the the houses ran along left lay, and the lilac
bushes were still leafless, only one Pasture-stressed germinating
branches in a fine beam arc across.

"What's the matter?" Gabussi
asked, pushing his arm into that of the friend who sat up had.

"We
were just driving past the house where the poor lived Marmotte," said
Deruga.

Gabussi silent. Only after a long pause, he said, "You were
happy once, Dodo."

"No, not then," replied the latter. "My mind was
too restless, my heart sensitive to and to my mind sharp. I think
I would have to be a god, be happy with my gifts to be. "

"It's also
nice to be as talented as you are," said Gabussi. "Remember, how often
our religion teacher said to you, 'Sigismondo, do you mind, intellect
enough. But the mind is a hellish fire, the reason is a divine light.
And reason has some old broom-maker more than you '"

Deruga laughed.
Yes, on the understanding he was to speak ill, "he said. "And you
know, up in front of me as he warned, predicting that it would be
a Mason and an atheist out of me, if I would not even a saint. "

The
car had now reached its municipal facilities, and they saw a fast,
strong river in the thick trunks of old willows and poplars flow through
open meadows.

But Iwanich did not forget the old man's advice, and quickly put his hand into the bag and
took out as many bread-crumbs as he could hold in his hand at a time. He threw them to the
beasts, but soon the bag grew lighter and lighter, and the Prince began to feel a little frightened.
And now the last crumb was gone, and the hungry beasts thronged round him, greedy for fresh
prey. Then he seized the hare and threw it to them.

No sooner did the little creature feel itself on the ground than it lay back its ears and flew
through the wood like an arrow from a bow, closely pursued by the wild beasts, and the Prince
was left alone. He looked at his ring, and when he saw that it sparkled as brightly as ever
he went straight on through the forest.

He hadn't gone very far when he saw a most extraordinary looking man coming towards him. He
was not more than three feet high, his legs were quite crooked, and all his body was covered
with prickles like a hedgehog. Two lions walked with him, fastened to his side by the two ends
of his long beard.

He stopped the Prince and asked him in a harsh voice: 'Are you the man who has just fed my
body-guard?'

Iwanich was so startled that he could hardly reply, but the little man continued: 'I am most
grateful to you for your kindness; what can I give you as a reward?'

'All I ask,' replied Iwanich, 'is, that I should be allowed to go through this wood in safety.'

'Most certainly,' answered the little man; 'and for greater security I will give you one of
my lions as a protector. But when you leave this wood and come near a palace which does not
belong to my domain, let the lion go, in order that he may not fall into the hands of an enemy
and be killed.'

With these words he loosened the lion from his beard and bade the beast guard the youth carefully.

With this new protector Iwanich wandered on through the forest, and though he came upon a great
many more wolves, hyenas, leopards, and other wild beasts, they always kept at a respectful
distance when they saw what sort of an escort the Prince had with him.

Iwanich hurried through the wood as quickly as his legs would carry him, but, nevertheless,
hour after hour went by and not a trace of a green field or a human habitation met his eyes.
At length, towards evening, the mass of trees grew more transparent, and through the interlaced
branches a wide plain was visible.

At the exit of the wood the lion stood still, and the Prince took leave of him, having first
thanked him warmly for his kind protection. It had become quite dark, and Iwanich was forced
to wait for daylight before continuing his journey.

He made himself a bed of grass and leaves, lit a fire of dry branches, and slept soundly till
the next morning.

Then he got up and walked towards a beautiful white palace which he saw gleaming in the distance.
In about an hour he reached the building, and opening the door he walked in.

After wandering through many marble halls, he came to a huge staircase made of porphyry, leading
down to a lovely garden.

The Prince burst into a shout of joy when he suddenly perceived Militza in the centre of a
group of girls who were weaving wreaths of flowers with which to deck their mistress.

As soon as Militza saw the Prince she ran up to him and embraced him tenderly; and after he
had told her all his adventures, they went into the palace, where a sumptuous meal awaited
them. Then the Princess called her court together, and introduced Iwanich to them as her future
husband.

Preparations were at once made for the wedding, which was held soon after with great pomp and
magnificence.

Three months of great happiness followed, when Militza received one day an invitation to visit
her mother's sister.

Although the Princess was very unhappy at leaving her husband, she did not like to refuse the
invitation, and, promising to return in seven days at the latest, she took a tender farewell
of the Prince, and said: 'Before I go I will hand you over all the keys of the castle. Go everywhere
and do anything you like; only one thing I beg and beseech you, do not open the little iron
door in the north tower, which is closed with seven locks and seven bolts; for if you do, we
shall both suffer for it.'

Iwanich promised what she asked, and Militza departed, repeating her promise to return in seven
days.

When the Prince found himself alone he began to be tormented by pangs of curiosity as to what
the room in the tower contained. For two days he resisted the temptation to go and look, but
on the third he could stand it no longer, and taking a torch in his hand he hurried to the
tower, and unfastened one lock after the other of the little iron door until it burst open.

What an unexpected sight met his gaze! The Prince perceived a small room black with smoke,
lit up feebly by a fire from which issued long blue flames. Over the fire hung a huge cauldron
full of boiling pitch, and fastened into the cauldron by iron chains stood a wretched man screaming
with agony.

Iwanich was much horrified at the sight before him, and asked the man what terrible crime he
had committed to be punished in this dreadful fashion.

'I will tell you everything,' said the man in the cauldron; 'but first relieve my torments
a little, I implore you.'

'And how can I do that?' asked the Prince.

'With a little water,' replied the man; 'only sprinkle a few drops over me and I shall feel
better.'

The Prince, moved by pity, without thinking what he was doing, ran to the courtyard of the
castle, and filled a jug with water, which he poured over the man in the cauldron.

In a moment a most fearful crash was heard, as if all the pillars of the palace were giving
way, and the palace itself, with towers and doors, windows and the cauldron, whirled round
the bewildered Prince's head. This continued for a few minutes, and then everything vanished
into thin air, and Iwanich found himself suddenly alone upon a desolate heath covered with
rocks and stones.

The Prince, who now realised what his heedlessness had done, cursed too late his spirit of
curiosity. In his despair he wandered on over the heath, never looking where he put his feet,
and full of sorrowful thoughts. At last he saw a light in the distance, which came from a miserable-looking
little hut.

The owner of it was none other than the kind-hearted gaunt grey beggar who had given the Prince
the bag of bread-crumbs and the hare. Without recognising Iwanich, he opened the door when
he knocked and gave him shelter for the night.

On the following morning the Prince asked his host if he could get him any work to do, as he
was quite unknown in the neighbourhood, and had not enough money to take him home.

'My son,' replied the old man, 'all this country round here is uninhabited; I myself have to
wander to distant villages for my living, and even then I do not very often find enough to
satisfy my hunger. But if you would like to take service with the old witch Corva, go straight
up the little stream which flows below my hut for about three hours, and you will come to a
sand-hill on the left-hand side; that is where she lives.'

Iwanich thanked the gaunt grey beggar for his information, and went on his way.

After walking for about three hours the Prince came upon a dreary-looking grey stone wall;
this was the back of the building and did not attract him; but when he came upon the front
of the house he found it even less inviting, for the old witch had surrounded her dwelling
with a fence of spikes, on every one of which a man's skull was stuck. In this horrible enclosure
stood a small black house, which had only two grated windows, all covered with cobwebs, and
a battered iron door.

The Prince knocked, and a rasping woman's voice told him to enter.

Iwanich opened the door, and found himself in a smoke-begrimed kitchen, in the presence of
a hideous old woman who was warming her skinny hands at a fire. The Prince offered to become
her servant, and the old hag told him she was badly in want of one, and he seemed to be just
the person to suit her.

When Iwanich asked what his work, and how much his wages would be, the witch bade him follow
her, and led the way through a narrow damp passage into a vault, which served as a stable.
Here he perceived two pitch-black horses in a stall.

'You see before you,' said the old woman, 'a mare and her foal; you have nothing to do but
to lead them out to the fields every day, and to see that neither of them runs away from you.
If you look after them both for a whole year I will give you anything you like to ask; but
if, on the other hand, you let either of the animals escape you, your last hour is come, and
your head shall be stuck on the last spike of my fence. The other spikes, as you see, are already
adorned, and the skulls are all those of different servants I have had who have failed to do
what I demanded.'

Iwanich, who thought he could not be much worse off than he was already, agreed to the witch's
proposal.

At daybreak nest morning he drove his horses to the field, and brought them back in the evening
without their ever having attempted to break away from him. The witch stood at her door and
received him kindly, and set a good meal before him.

So it continued for some time, and all went well with the Prince.

Early every morning he led the horses out to the fields, and brought them home safe and sound
in the evening.

One day, while he was watching the horses, he came to the banks of a river, and saw a big fish,
which through some mischance had been cast on the land, struggling hard to get back into the water.

Iwanich, who felt sorry for the poor creature, seized it in his arms and flung it into the
stream. But no sooner did the fish find itself in the water again, than, to the Prince's amazement,
it swam up to the bank and said:

'My kind benefactor, how can I reward you for your goodness?'

'I desire nothing,' answered the Prince. 'I am quite content to have been able to be of some
service to you.'

'You must do me the favour,' replied the fish, 'to take a scale from my body, and keep it carefully.
If you should ever need my help, throw it into the river, and I will come to your aid at once.'

Iwanich bowed, loosened a scale from the body of the grateful beast, put it carefully away,
and returned home.

A short time after this, when he was going early one morning to the usual grazing place with
his horses, he noticed a flock of birds assembled together making a great noise and flying
wildly backwards and forwards.

Full of curiosity, Iwanich hurried up to the spot, and saw that a large number of ravens had
attacked an eagle, and although the eagle was big and powerful and was making a brave fight,
it was overpowered at last by numbers, and had to give in.

But the Prince, who was sorry for the poor bird, seized the branch of a tree and hit out at
the ravens with it; terrified at this unexpected onslaught they flew away, leaving many of
their number dead or wounded on the battlefield.

As soon as the eagle saw itself free from its tormentors it plucked a feather from its wing,
and, handing it to the Prince, said: 'Here, my kind benefactor, take this feather as a proof
of my gratitude; should you ever be in need of my help blow this feather into the air, and
I will help you as much as is in my power.'

Iwanich thanked the bird, and placing the feather beside the scale he drove the horses home.

Another day he had wandered farther than usual, and came close to a farmyard; the place pleased
the Prince, and as there was plenty of good grass for the horses he determined to spend the
day there. Just as he was sitting down under a tree he heard a cry close to him, and saw a
fox which had been caught in a trap placed there by the farmer.

In vain did the poor beast try to free itself; then the good-natured Prince came once more
to the rescue, and let the fox out of the trap.

The fox thanked him heartily, tore two hairs out of his bushy tail, and said: 'Should you ever
stand in need of my help throw these two hairs into the fire, and in a moment I shall be at
your side ready to obey you.'

Iwanich put the fox's hairs with the scale and the feather, and as it was getting dark he hastened
home with his horses.

In the meantime his service was drawing near to an end, and in three more days the year was
up, and he would be able to get his reward and leave the witch.

On the first evening of these last three days, when he came home and was eating his supper,
he noticed the old woman stealing into the stables.

The Prince followed her secretly to see what she was going to do. He crouched down in the doorway
and heard the wicked witch telling the horses to wait next morning till Iwanich was asleep,
and then to go and hide themselves in the river, and to stay there till she told them to return;
and if they didn't do as she told them the old woman threatened to beat them till they bled.

When Iwanich heard all this he went back to his room, determined that nothing should induce
him to fall asleep next day. On the following morning he led the mare and foal to the fields
as usual, but bound a cord round them both which he kept in his hand.

But after a few hours, by the magic arts of the old witch, he was overpowered by sleep, and
the mare and foal escaped and did as they had been told to do. The Prince did not awake till
late in the evening; and when he did, he found, to his horror, that the horses had disappeared.
Filled with despair, he cursed the moment when he had entered the service of the cruel witch,
and already he saw his head sticking up on the sharp spike beside the others.

Then he suddenly remembered the fish's scale, which, with the eagle's feather and the fox's
hairs, he always carried about with him. He drew the scale from his pocket, and hurrying to
the river he threw it in. In a minute the grateful fish swam towards the bank on which Iwanich
was standing, and said: 'What do you command, my friend and benefactor?'

The Prince replied: 'I had to look after a mare and foal, and they have run away from me and
have hidden themselves in the river; if you wish to save my life drive them back to the land.'

'Wait a moment,' answered the fish, 'and I and my friends will soon drive them out of the water.'
With these words the creature disappeared into the depths of the stream.

Almost immediately a rushing hissing sound was heard in the waters, the waves dashed against
the banks, the foam was tossed into the air, and the two horses leapt suddenly on to the dry
land, trembling and shaking with fear.

Iwanich sprang at once on to the mare's back, seized the foal by its bridle, and hastened home
in the highest spirits.

When the witch saw the Prince bringing the horses home she could hardly conceal her wrath,
and as soon as she had placed Iwanich's supper before him she stole away again to the stables.
The Prince followed her, and heard her scolding the beasts harshly for not having hidden themselves
better. She bade them wait next morning till Iwanich was asleep and then to hide themselves
in the clouds, and to remain there till she called. If they did not do as she told them she
would beat them till they bled.

The next morning, after Iwanich had led his horses to the fields, he fell once more into a
magic sleep. The horses at once ran away and hid themselves in the clouds, which hung down
from the mountains in soft billowy masses.

When the Prince awoke and found that both the mare and the foal had disappeared, he bethought
him at once of the eagle, and taking the feather out of his pocket he blew it into the air.

In a moment the bird swooped down beside him and asked: 'What do you wish me to do?'

'My mare and foal,' replied the Prince, 'have run away from me, and have hidden themselves
in the clouds; if you wish to save my life, restore both animals to me.'

'Wait a minute,' answered the eagle; 'with the help of my friends I will soon drive them back
to you.'

With these words the bird flew up into the air and disappeared among the clouds.

Almost directly Iwanich saw his two horses being driven towards him by a host of eagles of
all sizes. He caught the mare and foal, and having thanked the eagle he drove them cheerfully
home again.

The old witch was more disgusted than ever when she saw him appearing, and having set his supper
before him she stole into the stables, and Iwanich heard her abusing the horses for not having
hidden themselves better in the clouds. Then she bade them hide themselves next morning, as
soon as Iwanich was asleep, in the King's hen-house, which stood on a lonely part of the heath,
and to remain there till she called. If they failed to do as she told them she would certainly
beat them this time till they bled.

On the following morning the Prince drove his horses as usual to the fields. After he had been
overpowered by sleep, as on the former days, the mare and foal ran away and hid themselves
in the royal hen house.

When the Prince awoke and found the horses gone he determined to appeal to the fox; so, lighting
a fire, he threw the two hairs into it, and in a few moments the fox stood beside him and asked:
'In what way can I serve you?'

'I wish to know,' replied Iwanich, 'where the King's hen-house is.'

'Hardly an hour's walk from here,' answered the fox, and offered to show the Prince the way to it.

While they were walking along the fox asked him what he wanted to do at the royal hen-house.
The Prince told him of the misfortune that had befallen him, and of the necessity of recovering
the mare and foal.

'That is no easy matter,' replied the fox. 'But wait a moment. I have an idea. Stand at the
door of the hen-house, and wait there for your horses. In the meantime I will slip in among
the hens through a hole in the wall and give them a good chase, so that the noise they make
will arouse the royal henwives, and they will come to see what is the matter. When they see
the horses they will at once imagine them to be the cause of the disturbance, and will drive
them out. Then you must lay hands on the mare and foal and catch them.

All turned out exactly as the sly fox had foreseen. The Prince swung himself on the mare, seized
the foal by its bridle, and hurried home.

While he was riding over the heath in the highest of spirits the mare suddenly said to her
rider: 'You are the first person who has ever succeeded in outwitting the old witch Corva,
and now you may ask what reward you like for your service. If you promise never to betray me
I will give you a piece of advice which you will do well to follow.'

The Prince promised never to betray her confidence, and the mare continued: 'Ask nothing else
as a reward than my foal, for it has not its like in the world, and is not to be bought for
love or money; for it can go from one end of the earth to another in a few minutes. Of course
the cunning Corva will do her best to dissuade you from taking the foal, and will tell you
that it is both idle and sickly; but do not believe her, and stick to your point.'

Iwanich longed to possess such an animal, and promised the mare to follow her advice.

This time Corva received him in the most friendly manner, and set a sumptuous repast before
him. As soon as he had finished she asked him what reward he demanded for his year's service.

'Nothing more nor less,' replied the Prince, 'than the foal of your mare.'

The witch pretended to be much astonished at his request, and said that he deserved something
much better than the foal, for the beast was lazy and nervous, blind in one eye, and, in short,
was quite worthless.

But the Prince knew what he wanted, and when the old witch saw that he had made up his mind
to have the foal, she said, 'I am obliged to keep my promise and to hand you over the foal;
and as I know who you are and what you want, I will tell you in what way the animal will be
useful to you. The man in the cauldron of boiling pitch, whom you set free, is a mighty magician;
through your curiosity and thoughtlessness Militza came into his power, and he has transported
her and her castle and belongings into a distant country.

'You are the only person who can kill him; and in consequence he fears you to such an extent
that he has set spies to watch you, and they report your movements to him daily.

'When you have reached him, beware of speaking a single word to him, or you will fall into
the power of his friends. Seize him at once by the beard and dash him to the ground.'

Iwanich thanked the old witch, mounted his foal, put spurs to its sides, and they flew like
lightning through the air.

Already it was growing dark, when Iwanich perceived some figures in the distance; they soon
came up to them, and then the Prince saw that it was the magician and his friends who were
driving through the air in a carriage drawn by owls.

When the magician found himself face to face with Iwanich, without hope of escape, he turned
to him with false friendliness and said: 'Thrice my kind benefactor!'

But the Prince, without saying a word, seized him at once by his beard and dashed him to the
ground. At the same moment the foal sprang on the top of the magician and kicked and stamped
on him with his hoofs till he died.

Then Iwanich found himself once more in the palace of his bride, and Militza herself flew into
his arms.

From this time forward they lived in undisturbed peace and happiness till the end of their lives.

THE MAGIC RING

Once upon a time there lived an old couple who had one son called Martin. Now when the old
man's time had come, he stretched himself out on his bed and died. Though all his life long
he had toiled and moiled, he only left his widow and son two hundred florins. The old woman
determined to put by the money for a rainy day; but alas! the rainy day was close at hand,
for their meal was all consumed, and who is prepared to face starvation with two hundred florins
at their disposal? So the old woman counted out a hundred of her florins, and giving them to
Martin, told him to go into the town and lay in a store of meal for a year.

So Martin started off for the town. When he reached the meat-market he found the whole place
in turmoil, and a great noise of angry voices and barking of dogs. Mixing in the crowd, he
noticed a stag-hound which the butchers had caught and tied to a post, and which was being
flogged in a merciless manner. Overcome with pity, Martin spoke to the butchers, saying:

'Friends, why are you beating the poor dog so cruelly?'

'We have every right to beat him,' they replied; 'he has just devoured a newly-killed pig.'

'Leave off beating him,' said Martin, 'and sell him to me instead.'

'If you choose to buy him,' answered the butchers derisively; 'but for such a treasure we won't
take a penny less than a hundred florins.'

'A hundred!' exclaimed Martin. 'Well, so be it, if you will not take less;' and, taking the
money out of his pocket, he handed it over in exchange for the dog, whose name was Schurka.

When Martin got home, his mother met him with the question:

'Well, what have you bought?'

'Schurka, the dog,' replied Martin, pointing to his new possession. Whereupon his mother became
very angry, and abused him roundly. He ought to be ashamed of himself, when there was scarcely
a handful of meal in the house, to have spent the money on a useless brute like that. On the
following day she sent him back to the town, saying, 'Here, take our last hundred florins,
and buy provisions with them. I have just emptied the last grains of meal out of the chest,
and baked a bannock; but it won't last over to-morrow.'

Just as Martin was entering the town he met a rough-looking peasant who was dragging a cat
after him by a string which was fastened round the poor beast's neck.

'Stop,' cried Martin; 'where are you dragging that poor cat?'

'I mean to drown him,' was the answer.

'What harm has the poor beast done?' said Martin.

'It has just killed a goose,' replied the peasant.

'Don't drown him, sell him to me instead,' begged Martin.

'Not for a hundred florins,' was the answer.

'Surely for a hundred florins you'll sell it?' said Martin. 'See! here is the money;' and,
so saying, he handed him the hundred florins, which the peasant pocketed, and Martin took possession
of the cat, which was called Waska.

When he reached his home his mother greeted him with the question:

'Well, what have you brought back?'

'I have brought this cat, Waska,' answered Martin.

'And what besides?'

'I had no money over to buy anything else with,' replied Martin.

'You useless ne'er-do-weel!' exclaimed his mother in a great passion. 'Leave the house at once,
and go and beg your bread among strangers;' and as Martin did not dare to contradict her, he
called Schurka and Waska and started off with them to the nearest village in search of work.
On the way he met a rich peasant, who asked him where he was going.

'I want to get work as a day labourer,' he answered.

'Come along with me, then. But I must tell you I engage my labourers without wages. If you
serve me faithfully for a year, I promise you it shall be for your advantage.'

So Martin consented, and for a year he worked diligently, and served his master faithfully,
not sparing himself in any way. When the day of reckoning had come the peasant led him into
a barn, and pointing to two full sacks, said: 'Take whichever of these you choose.'

Martin examined the contents of the sacks, and seeing that one was full of silver and the other
of sand, he said to himself:

'There must be some trick about this; I had better take the sand.' And throwing the sack over
his shoulders he started out into the world, in search of fresh work. On and on he walked,
and at last he reached a great gloomy wood. In the middle of the wood he came upon a meadow,
where a fire was burning, and in the midst of the fire, surrounded by flames, was a lovely
damsel, more beautiful than anything that Martin had ever seen, and when she saw him she called
to him:

'Martin, if you would win happiness, save my life. Extinguish the flames with the sand that
you earned in payment of your faithful service.'

'Truly,' thought Martin to himself, 'it would be more sensible to save a fellow-being's life
with this sand than to drag it about on one's back, seeing what a weight it is.' And forthwith
he lowered the sack from his shoulders and emptied its contents on the flames, and instantly
the fire was extinguished; but at the same moment lo! and behold the lovely damsel turned into
a Serpent, and, darting upon him, coiled itself round his neck, and whispered lovingly in his ear:

'Do not be afraid of me, Martin; I love you, and will go with you through the world. But first
you must follow me boldly into my Father's Kingdom, underneath the earth; and when we get there,
remember this--he will offer you gold and silver, and dazzling gems, but do not touch them.
Ask him, instead, for the ring which he wears on his little finger, for in that ring lies a
magic power; you have only to throw it from one hand to the other, and at once twelve young
men will appear, who will do your bidding, no matter how difficult, in a single night.'

So they started on their way, and after much wandering they reached a spot where a great rock
rose straight up in the middle of the road. Instantly the Serpent uncoiled itself from his
neck, and, as it touched the damp earth, it resumed the shape of the lovely damsel. Pointing
to the rock, she showed him an opening just big enough for a man to wriggle through. Passing
into it, they entered a long underground passage, which led out on to a wide field, above which
spread a blue sky. In the middle of the field stood a magnificent castle, built out of porphyry,
with a roof of gold and with glittering battlements. And his beautiful guide told him that
this was the palace in which her father lived and reigned over his kingdom in the Under-world.

Together they entered the palace, and were received by the King with great kindness. Turning
to his daughter, he said:

'My child, I had almost given up the hope of ever seeing you again. Where have you been all
these years?'

'My father,' she replied, 'I owe my life to this youth, who saved me from a terrible death.'

Upon which the King turned to Martin with a gracious smile, saying: 'I will reward your courage
by granting you whatever your heart desires. Take as much gold, silver, and precious stones
as you choose.'

'I thank you, mighty King, for your gracious offer,' answered Martin,' 'but I do not covet
either gold, silver, or precious stones; yet if you will grant me a favour, give me, I beg,
the ring from off the little finger of your royal hand. Every time my eye falls on it I shall
think of your gracious Majesty, and when I marry I shall present it to my bride.'

So the King took the ring from his finger and gave it to Martin, saying: 'Take it, good youth;
but with it I make one condition--you are never to confide to anyone that this is a magic ring.
If you do, you will straightway bring misfortune on yourself.'

Martin took the ring, and, having thanked the King, he set out on the same road by which he
had come down into the Under-world. Of cinnamon from the Orinoco and the missions the
Andaquies whose cultivation Mutis in Mariquita in New Grenada has introduced, by the way less
spicy than the Ceylonzimmt, and would be such even if they quite as dried and would be prepared.

Each hemisphere has its own kinds of plants, and explains it by no means out of the Diversity
of climates, why not Laurineen tropical Africa, the new world no Heathers brings forth, why
is there in the southern hemisphere no Calceolarias why on the Indian mainland, the plumage of
birds is not as bright as in the hot Land lines in America, at last why the tiger and Asia,
only New Holland Ornithorynchus own it? The causes of the distribution of the species in the
plants belong-as in the animal kingdom the riddles, which is not to solve the philosophy of
nature capable of. With the origin of Being has nothing to do this science, but only with the
laws by which the essence distributed over the globe are. It examines what is the plant and animal
training, as they find in each width, in different heights and with different degrees of heat each
other occur, it explores the conditions under which this or that organism strong, is developing
more or converts, but it does not touch issues impossible to solve, because they are related to the
origin, with the very beginning of a life germ. It should also be noted that only the trials,
the distribution of species on the planet be explained by the influence of climates, belong to a time when
the physical geography was still in the cradle, where it held continuously to alleged contradictions
of both worlds and introduced himself, the whole of Africa and America are similar to the
deserts of Egypt and the swamps of Cayenne. Since the facts can not be adopted after an arbitrary
type, but for positive Knowledge of judges, you also know that the two continents in its vast expansion
Pieces of land with fully matched natural conditions have to exhibit. America so dry and red-hot
regions than the interior of Africa. The islands, which the Indian Spices produce are characterized
not by drought, and humidity of the Climate is certainly not, as in recent works, the reason
why the new continent that did not occur and beautiful Laurineen Myristiceenarten that the Indian
Archipelago in a small corner of the earth next to each other grow. For several years in several
Countries of the New Continent of genuine Zimmtbaum built with success, and a tract of land
on which the Coumarouna (the Tonga bean), the vanilla, the Pucheri, the pineapple, Myrtus pimenta,
of Tolu, Myroxylon peruvianum, the Crotonarten that Citrosmen, the Pejoa (Gaultheria odorata), which
incienso the Silla of Caracas [Trixis nereifolia. S. vol. II, page 183], the Quereme grow,
the Pancratium species and so many wonderful species of lilies, not for a , Are the lack of
flavors. Moreover, dryness of the air of the development of aromatic and irritant properties
beneficial only in certain plant species. The most violent poisons be in the wettest area
of ​​America created and currently under the influence of the continuing tropical rain grows the
American pepper (Capsicum baccatum) on top, whose fruit often so sharp and biting than the
East Indian pepper. It is clear from these considerations THAT: 1) The new continent has very
strong spices, flavorings and vegetable Toxins that belong to him alone, but specifically different
from those of the ancient world; 2) the initial distribution of the species in the hot zone is
only from the influence of Climate, from the distribution of heat, as happens in the present
state of our planet, to explain, but this diversity of climates, it makes us understand why a
given organ type develops stronger at one locality than at the other. We understand from a few
plant families, like the Muses and palm trees that them because of their internal construction
and the importance of certain organs impossible very cold regions may belong, but we can not explain
why no species of the family Melastomeen north of the thirtieth degree of latitude is growing,
why not a single rose variety of the southern Hemisphere belongs. Often on both continents
are similar climates, without the products would be similar.

The Rio Vichada (Vichada) used in its confluence with the Orinoco a small Raudal has seemed
to me after the Meta and Guaviare of the most important of the coming from the west Rivers. For forty
years no European has sailed the Vichada. As to his sources have I have nothing in experience can bring,
I suspect that at the levels of Tomo south of Casimena.

At least seems to be no doubt that the earliest missions to the banks of Vichada by Jesuits
from the missions have been established on Casanare. Still in recent times was seen volatile Indians
of Santa Rosalia de Cabapuna, a village on Meta, come across the Rio Vichada to the cataract
of Maypures, indicating that the sources the same can not be-ing very far from the Meta. Gumilla
Father has given us the names of several German and kept the Spanish Jesuits, who in 1734 at
the now barren shores of the Vichada the hands of the Caribs were victims of their religious
zeal.

After we first against the East Caño Pirajavi, then come over to the west by a small river, which rises
according to the statement of the Indians out of a lake named Nao, we stayed at Banks of the
Orinoco, the influence of Zama, a very considerable river, the so
unknown than the Rio Vichada.

Despite the black water of the Zama we had a lot of insects endure. The night was beautiful, in the lower
regions of the air not a breeze was blowing, but against zwei clock we saw thick clouds rapidly
from east to west walk through the zenith. When she at Go down to the horizon before the great
nebula in Sagittarius, or in the ship came, they appeared black blue. The nebulae are never brighter
than when they partly strips of cloud covered. We observed the same phenomenon in Europe in the
Milky Way, the northern light as it shines in the silver light, and finally at sunrise and sunset
on the Piece of Heaven, which is know from causes which physics has not yet been determined properly.

No
man knows the vast stretch of land between Meta, Guaviare and Vichada further than one mile
from the shore. It is believed that live here from the tribe of wild Indians Chiricoas that fortunately
not build canoes. Earlier than the Caribs and their enemies, the Cabres, with its squadrons
of rafts and canoes here wandering around, it would be imprudent
Staying at the mouth of a river that comes from the west.

Currently, as the small Branches of Europeans, the independent Indians from the banks of the
upper Orinoco displaced have, this region is so desolate that Carichana us to Javita and Esmeralda
to San Fernando de Atabapo on a power trip of 180 miles are not met a single vehicle.

With the mouth of the Rio Zama, we entered a river system, which deserves great attention. The
Zama, the Mataveni, the Atabapo, the Tuamini, the Temi, who have Guainia * Black Water * (Aguas
negras), that is, their water, seen in large masses appear brown or coffee greenish black,
and yet it is the best, clearest, best tasting water.

I have mentioned above that the crocodiles and, if not the zancudoes, but the mosquitoes almost
everywhere to avoid the black water. The nation also claims that the brown water Rocks do not have
black and white rivers, the black white rivers bank. And although seen on the shore of Guainia,
the Europeans, under the name Rio Negro * * know, often dazzling white quartz from the granite
masses protruding. In the glass is the water of Mataveni quite white, the reserves of Atabapo but
a brownish yellow slip. If a gentle Wind the level of a 'black river' curls, they appear as beautiful
meadow green Swiss lakes. In the shadows of Zama, the Atabapo, the Guainia black like coffee grounds.
These phenomena are so striking that the Indians of all places, the waters in black one white
and heal. The former have often served me as an artificial horizon, they throw the constellations
wonderfully sharp back.

The color of spring water, river water and sea water is one of the physical problems, are by direct
attempts to solve difficult or impossible. The colors in reflektirtem Light are usually quite
different from that of continuous, especially when a large mass Liquid goes through. Would
find no absorption of radiation takes place, would have the continuous
Light is always the color that the Complementary reflektirten of light
would be, and usually judged one with a glass of water in a non-deep
with a narrow opening, the continuous light wrong.

In a river the reflektirte colored light passes always from the inner layers the liquid to us,
not from the upper layer of the same.

Famous physicists who have studied the purest glacier water, as that which arises with eternal
snow-capped mountains where no vegetable remains in the Soil to find feel the peculiar color of the
water would be-ing blue or green. In fact, nothing proved that the water is naturally white
and always a dye must be-ing in games, if the same thing, seen at reflektirtem light staining
shows.

Where rivers actually contain a coloring material, is usually the same in such small quantities
that he removes any chemical testing. The coloration of the sea often seems neither of the Nature
of the ground, nor to depend on reflection of the sky and the clouds. A large Physicists, DAVY,
should be-ing the view that the different color of the sea could stem from the fact that iodine
is present in different proportions in it.

From the ancient geography we learn that even the Greeks, the blue waters of Thermopylae in
the red jacket, the black of the hot baths of Astyra, Lesbos opposite, noticed were. Some rivers,
such as the Rhone at Geneva, have a decidedly blue hue. The snow water in the Swiss Alps is to
be-ing sometimes emerald green, in meadow green temporarily.

Several lakes in Savoy and Peru are brown, almost black. Most colors like symptoms occur in waters which
are for the most pure, and it will be more important to must hold analogies founded conclusions
as to the direct analysis to increase over this very dark point to spread some light. In the sprawling
river system, the we visited - and that fact seems to me very surprising - are the 'black water'
preferably only in the bar near the equator before. The fifth degree of north Wide to catch them
to take, and they are on the equator also up against the second Degrees south very often. The
mouth of the Rio Negro is even below the 3 ° 9 'of Width, but come on all this land in the
woods and on the grassy plains white and black water, so with each other before, that we do not
know what cause it write the color of the water is. The Cassiquiare which flows into the Rio Negro,
has white water as the Orinoco, from which it arises. Of two tributaries of the Cassiquiare
close to each other, and Siapa Pacimony, one is white, the other black.

If you ask the Indians for the causes of this strange color, so is her answer, as often in Europe,
if it is physical and physiolologischen questions: repeating the fact in other words. Turning
to the missionaries speak so them as having the most stringent evidence for their claim that
"the water stain when Sarsaparillewurzeln run it over. "The Smilaceen are, however, on the Rio
Negro, and Pacimony Cababury very often, and their roots soaked in
water to give a brown bitter, schleimigten extractives, but how many
Smilaxbüsche we have seen in places where the Water are all white!

How is it that we in sumpfigten forest, through our Pirogue from Rio to the Caño Tuamini Pimichin
and the Rio Negro had to carry on the same land now through streams of white, now wading through other
with black water? Why did they never found a river that to know its source and in the lower
part of his black race was? I do not know if the Rio Negro, his brown-yellow color of reserves
to the mouth, although through his Cassiquiare and the Rio Blanco flows very much white water.
Since LA CONDAMINE the river north of the equator did not, he could not judge the difference
in color.

The vegetation is very strong because of the abundance of rain near the equator, however, as 8 - 10
degrees to the north and to the south, it can be said, however, by no means that the rivers
with black water, preferably in the densest, most shady woods arise. On the contrary very many aguas
negras from the open grasslands that extends from the other side of the Meta Guaviare drag against
the Caqueta. On a trip I at the time of inundation with Mr. Montufar made from the port of Guayaquil
to the Bodegas de Babaojo, it struck me that the vast savannahs on
* Invernadero del Carzal * and * on * Lagartero were stained similarly
such as the Rio Negro and the Atabapo.

These standing partly under water for three months Grasslands consist of Paspalum, Eriochloa
and several Cyperaceae. We drove in four to five feet deep water and the same was at day 33 - 34
degrees hot, it smelled strongly of hydrogen sulfide, which undoubtedly stemmed in part from the rotting
Arum and Heliconienstauden related to the swimming pools. The water of the Lagartero looked golden
in continuous light at reflektirtem from coffee brown. The color is due no doubt of carbonated
hydrogen. You see something Similar fertilizer on water, which prepare our gardener, and the
water from peat bogs flows. Can not therefore assume that the black rivers of Atabapo, the Zama,
the Mataveni, the Guainia, from a carbon and hydrogen compound, a Pflanzenextraktivstoff be
stained? The heavy rain at the equator with no doubt contribute to the staining by the water
trickles through a thick litter layer. I give these thoughts only as a conjecture. The coloring substance
appears in very small quantities contained in the water, because if you water from the Rio
Negro Guainia or boil leaves, I saw it does not turn brown like other liquids, which contain a lot of
hydrocarbon.

It seems very strange way, that this 'black water', think of which one if they had been confined
to the lowlands of the hot zone, also, though very rarely occur on the plateaus of the Andes. We found the city
of Cuenca in the Kingdom of Quito surrounded by three rivers, the Machangara, the Rio del Matadero
and Yanuncai. The two former are white, the latter has black water. The same is, like that of
Atabapo, coffee brown in reflektirtem, pale yellow in transmitted light. It is very beautiful,
and the people of Cuenca, who drink it, preferably to write the color easily the sarsaparilla, the
most Rio Yanuncai to grow very often.

On 23 April. We set out from the mouth of the Zama by three clock in the morning. On both sides
ran continuously through the thick forest stream. The mountains in the east seemed increasingly
move away. We arrived first at the influence of the Rio Mataveni, and then a strange shaped island
over. A viereckigter granite rising like a box straight out of the water up, and the Missionaries
call him el Castillito. Of black streaks in them should conclude that the Orinoco, when he swells,
at this point does not exceed 8 feet, and that the high Water levels, which we later observed
to originate from the tributaries to the north come in from the cataracts
of Atures and Maypures.

We stayed on the right bank, the mouth of the Rio Siucurivapu opposite, ie at a rock that Aricagua.
In the night were numerous bats in the crevices and buzzed around our hammocks. I previously spoken
of the damage that these animals among the herds. They multiply particularly strong in very
dry years.

On 24 April. A heavy rain forced us very early morning climb to the canoe again. We left two
clock and had to leave some books that we in the dark night on the rock Aricagua could not
find. The current runs quite straight from south to north; the banks are low, and shaded on
both sides by dense forests. We came to the Mouths of the Ucata, the Arapa and Caranaveni over.
About four clock in the evening we went At the 'conucos Siquita de' from, plantations of Indians
from the Mission San Fernando. The good people would keep us happy, but we went on against the
current, which in a second five feet travels.

Such is the result of a measurement in which I estimated the time a floating body needs to travel a
given distance. We walked in dark Night at the mouth of the Guaviare, a wagon, on the confluence
of the Guaviare Atabapo out and arrived after midnight in the Mission. We got our apartment,
as always, in the monastery, that is the house of the missionary, who greatly from our unexpected
visit was surprised, but we started none the less with the kindest hospitality.

------------------

Was it 47 or Coluber Coluber Elaphis Aesculapii or Python, similar to the one who was killed by the
army of Regulus?

48 In 1806 a book was published in Leipzig under the title: Studies on the discovery of traces
of Humboldt on the Orinoco the Phoenician language.

                            

   49 The Hindus, the Tibetans, the Chinese, the ancient Egyptians, the
      Aztecs, the Peruvians, in which the drive for the Massencultur free
development of mental activity in individuals held down.

   
      
      50 It follows from siliceous limestone in Pique at the large Miami,
sandstone at Paint Creek ten miles from Chillicothe, where the wall
1500 toises long.

   
      
      51 He appears in Maypures at an angle of 1 degree 27 minutes.

*
      52 * rays, because of the alleged resemblance to the fish this Name,
which seems the mouth brought down the body.

   
      
      53 In the season that one north of the equator in South America Summer
means.

   

      54 diminutive of the Spanish word Canela, the Cinnamomum (Kinnamomon
the Greek) means.

   The latter word is one of the few, since the highest antiquity, from
      the Phoenician (a Semitic language) in the Western languages ​​passed
are.

   
      
      CHAPTER XXII.
      
      San Fernando de Atabapo. - San Baltasar. - The Rivers and Temi Tuamini.
- Javita. - Carrying space between the Tuamini and the Rio Negro.

     
    We had almost unnoticed in the night leave the waters of the Orinoco
                                  and looked at Sunrise in another country put on the bank of a river
whose name we almost had never heard speak, and on which we report
on the carrying place at the Rio Pimichin Negro on the border of Brazil
should reach.

"You must," the President told us the Missions, in San Fernando is located, "the first Atabapo,
then the Temi, finally Tuamini the drive up. If you can not * on * the strong current of black
water come anymore, so it leads you away from the river bed through the woods, the Under Water
be found. On this desolate stretch of land between the Orinoco and Rio Negro live only two
monks, But in Javita you find the resources to get your canoe four days' journey by land to
the Caño Pimichin move to leave. Does not break it, you go without hesitation to the Rio Negro
(From North West South East) down to the hill of San Carlos then, the Cassiquiare (of South
to North) up and coming in-month period on the upper Orinoco (from east to west) back to San Fernando.
"This plan is designed us for our river trip, and we had him, not without problems, but still
no harm in thirty-three days off. The curves in this Flußlabyrinth are so strong that one can
travel without the card I designed the ways in which we from the coast of Caracas through the
inner land to the Boundaries of the Captaincy General of Gran Para-making have come, as well
as no idea could. For those who do not like to look at maps, in which many hard-to Keep Names
are, I notice again that the Orinoco from its sources, or at least of Esmeralda from east to
west, from San Fernando, that is, from the confluence of the Guaviare and Atabapo , until the
influence of the Apure flows from south to north, and on that line, great cataracts is that
he at last from the influence of Apure to Angostura and the sea coast from west to east running.
On the first track, in the run from east to west, it forms the famous fork which geographers drawn
so often denied and whose position I first by astronomical Observations could determine. One arm
of the Orinoco, the Cassiquiare that from north to south flows, flows into the Rio Negro Guainia
or, in turn, in the Amazon, or Maragnon falls. The most natural way to water of Angostura to Gran Para-up
would be the Orinoco down to Esmeralda, and then the Cassiquiare, Rio Negro and Amazon, but since
the Rio Negro on its upper course is very close to that source of some rivers that are at San Fernando
de Atabapo flow into the Orinoco (at the point where the Orinoco from the direction from east
to west in the fast bends from south to north), so you can get into the Rio Negro, drive up
without the Flow Range between San Fernando and Esmeralda. It is the mission San Fernando from the Orinoco
River, which runs contiguous small black rivers (Atabapo, Temi Tuamini and up), and let the canoe
on a 6000 toises wide isthmus to the Bank of a stream (Caño Pimichin) bear, which falls into
the Rio Negro.
 Her appearance was a great
shock to the Prince, and so was her voice, which was like the croaking of many ravens. She
asked him, 'Why have you come here?'

The Prince answered at once, 'I have heard so much of your beauty and kindness, that I would
very much like to enter your service.'

'Very well,' said the Mother Dragon; 'but if you wish to enter my service, you must first lead
my mare out to the meadow and look after her for three days; but if you don't bring her home
safely every evening, we will eat you up.'

The Prince undertook the task and led the mare out to the meadow.

But no sooner had they reached the grass than she vanished. The Prince sought for her in vain,
and at last in despair sat down on a big stone and contemplated his sad fate. As he sat thus
lost in thought, he noticed an eagle flying over his head. Then he suddenly bethought him of
his little bell, and taking it out of his pocket he rang it once. In a moment he heard a rustling
sound in the air beside him, and the King of the Eagles sank at his feet.

'I know what you want of me,' the bird said. 'You are looking for the Mother Dragon's mare
who is galloping about among the clouds. I will summon all the eagles of the air together,
and order them to catch the mare and bring her to you.' And with these words the King of the
Eagles flew away. Towards evening the Prince heard a mighty rushing sound in the air, and when
he looked up he saw thousands of eagles driving the mare before them. They sank at his feet
on to the ground and gave the mare over to him. Then the Prince rode home to the old Mother
Dragon, who was full of wonder when she saw him, and said, 'You have succeeded to-day in looking
after my mare, and as a reward you shall come to my ball to-night.' She gave him at the same
time a cloak made of copper, and led him to a big room where several young he-dragons and she-dragons
were dancing together. Here, too, was the Flower Queen's beautiful daughter. Her dress was
woven out of the most lovely flowers in the world, and her complexion was like lilies and roses.
As the Prince was dancing with her he managed to whisper in her ear, 'I have come to set you free!'

Then the beautiful girl said to him, 'If you succeed in bringing the mare back safely the third
day, ask the Mother Dragon to give you a foal of the mare as a reward.'

The ball came to an end at midnight, and early next morning the Prince again led the Mother
Dragon's mare out into the meadow. But again she vanished before his eyes. Then he took out
his little bell and rang it twice.

In a moment the King of the Foxes stood before him and said: 'I know already what you want,
and will summon all the foxes of the world together to find the mare who has hidden herself
in a hill.'

With these words the King of the Foxes disappeared, and in the evening many thousand foxes
brought the mare to the Prince.

Then he rode home to the Mother-Dragon, from whom he received this time a cloak made of silver,
and again she led him to the ball-room.

The Flower Queen's daughter was delighted to see him safe and sound, and when they were dancing
together she whispered in his ear: 'If you succeed again to-morrow, wait for me with the foal
in the meadow. After the ball we will fly away together.'

On the third day the Prince led the mare to the meadow again; but once more she vanished before
his eyes. Then the Prince took out his little bell and rang it three times.

In a moment the King of the Fishes appeared, and said to him: 'I know quite well what you want
me to do, and I will summon all the fishes of the sea together, and tell them to bring you
back the mare, who is hiding herself in a river.'

Towards evening the mare was returned to him, and when he led her home to the Mother Dragon
she said to him:

'You are a brave youth, and I will make you my body-servant. But what shall I give you as a
reward to begin with?'

The Prince begged for a foal of the mare, which the Mother Dragon at once gave him, and over
and above, a cloak made of gold, for she had fallen in love with him because he had praised
her beauty.

So in the evening he appeared at the ball in his golden cloak; but before the entertainment
was over he slipped away, and went straight to the stables, where he mounted his foal and rode
out into the meadow to wait for the Flower Queen's daughter. Towards midnight the beautiful
girl appeared, and placing her in front of him on his horse, the Prince and she flew like the
wind till they reached the Flower Queen's dwelling. But the dragons had noticed their flight,
and woke their brother out of his year's sleep. He flew into a terrible rage when he heard
what had happened, and determined to lay siege to the Flower Queen's palace; but the Queen
caused a forest of flowers as high as the sky to grow up round her dwelling, through which
no one could force a way.

When the Flower Queen heard that her daughter wanted to marry the Prince, she said to him:
'I will give my consent to your marriage gladly, but my daughter can only stay with you in
summer. In winter, when everything is dead and the ground covered with snow, she must come
and live with me in my palace underground.' The Prince consented to this, and led his beautiful
bride home, where the wedding was held with great pomp and magnificence. The young couple lived
happily together till winter came, when the Flower Queen's daughter departed and went home
to her mother. In summer she returned to her husband, and their life of joy and happiness began
again, and lasted till the approach of winter, when the Flower Queen's daughter went back again
to her mother. This coming and going continued all her life long, and in spite of it they always
lived happily together.

THE FLYING SHIP(24)

(24) From the Russian.

Once upon a time there lived an old couple who had three sons; the two elder were clever, but
the third was a regular dunce. The clever sons were very fond of their mother, gave her good
clothes, and always spoke pleasantly to her; but the youngest was always getting in her way,
and she had no patience with him. Now, one day it was announced in the village that the King
had issued a decree, offering his daughter, the Princess, in marriage to whoever should build
a ship that could fly. Immediately the two elder brothers determined to try their luck, and
asked their parents' blessing. So the old mother smartened up their clothes, and gave them
a store of provisions for their journey, not forgetting to add a bottle of brandy. When they
had gone the poor Simpleton began to tease his mother to smarten him up and let him start off.

'What would become of a dolt like you?' she answered. 'Why, you would be eaten up by wolves.'

But the foolish youth kept repeating, 'I will go, I will go, I will go!'

Seeing that she could do nothing with him, the mother gave him a crust of bread and a bottle
of water, and took no further heed of him.

So the Simpleton set off on his way. When he had gone a short distance he met a little old
manikin. They greeted one another, and the manikin asked him where he was going.

'I am off to the King's Court,' he answered. 'He has promised to give his daughter to whoever
can make a flying ship.'

'And can you make such a ship?'

'Not I.'

'Then why in the world are you going?'

'Can't tell,' replied the Simpleton.

'Well, if that is the case,' said the manikin, 'sit down beside me; we can rest for a little
and have something to eat. Give me what you have got in your satchel.'

Now, the poor Simpleton was ashamed to show what was in it. However, he thought it best not
to make a fuss, so he opened the satchel, and could scarcely believe his own eyes, for, instead
of the hard crust, he saw two beautiful fresh rolls and some cold meat. He shared them with
the manikin, who licked his lips and said:

'Now, go into that wood, and stop in front of the first tree, bow three times, and then strike
the tree with your axe, fall on your knees on the ground, with your face on the earth, and
remain there till you are raised up. You will then find a ship at your side, step into it and
fly to the King's Palace. If you meet anyone on the way, take him with you.'

The Simpleton thanked the manikin very kindly, bade him farewell, and went into the road. When
he got to the first tree he stopped in front of it, did everything just as he had been told,
and, kneeling on the ground with his face to the earth, fell asleep. After a little time he
was aroused; he awoke and, rubbing his eyes, saw a ready-made ship at his side, and at once
got into it.

And the ship rose and rose, and in another minute was flying through the air, when the Simpleton,
who was on the look out, cast his eyes down to the earth and saw a man beneath him on the road,
who was kneeling with his ear upon the damp ground.

'Hallo!' he called out, 'what are you doing down there?'

'I am listening to what is going on in the world,' replied the man.

'Come with me in my ship,' said the Simpleton.

So the man was only too glad, and got in beside him; and the ship flew, and flew, and flew
through the air, till again from his outlook the Simpleton saw a man on the road below, who
was hopping on one leg, while his other leg was tied up behind his ear. So he hailed him, calling
out:

'Hallo! what are you doing, hopping on one leg?'

'I can't help it,' replied the man. 'I walk so fast that unless I tied up one leg I should
be at the end of the earth in a bound.'

'Come with us on my ship,' he answered; and the man made no objections, but joined them; and
the ship flew on, and on, and on, till suddenly the Simpleton, looking down on the road below,
beheld a man aiming with a gun into the distance.

'Hallo!' he shouted to him, 'what are you aiming at? As far as eye can see, there is no bird
in sight.'

'What would be the good of my taking a near shot?' replied the man; 'I can hit beast or bird
at a hundred miles' distance. That is the kind of shot I enjoy.'

'Come into the ship with us,' answered the Simpleton; and the man was only too glad to join
them, and he got in; and the ship flew on, farther and farther, till again the Simpleton from
his outlook saw a man on the road below, carrying on his back a basket full of bread. And he
waved to him, calling out:

'Hallo! where are you going?'

'To fetch bread for my breakfast.'

'Bread? Why, you have got a whole basket-load of it on your back.'

'That's nothing,' answered the man; 'I should finish that in one mouthful.'

'Come along with us in my ship, then.'

And so the glutton joined the party, and the ship mounted again into the air, and flew up and
onward, till the Simpleton from his outlook saw a man walking by the shore of a great lake,
and evidently looking for something. 

"His family circumstances were not favorable," said Gabussi. "He was busy at home much, so that he often
had to take the night to help to cope with school work. "

"How was that?" The chairman asked, "what was his father?"

"His father was a fruit vendor at the time," said Gabussi. "He had
a small vault behind the old city hall.

"

"So," said the chairman, leafing through the file. "After Derugas
stating his father was a businessman."

"Well," said Gabussi, a fruit seller "is still a businessman."

"By the way," he added, casting a worried glance at his friend, "has
He did not always have the same employment.

He was a good, but restless man "

The Chairman asked the witnesses to characterize Derugas father in some detail.

He had seen him and talked to little to make an authoritative ruling may said Gabussi. If he
had been there, he had mostly gloomy and without taking part in a Angle sat, only infrequently
once he had been wantonly and then I laughed out loud and joked.

"He was not always there?" Said Dr. = = Zeunemann.

"No," said Gabussi, "sometimes he got an attack that forced him to leave the family and somewhere
to hang around.

He stayed out for weeks, even months. "

"Did he drink?" Asked the chairman.

"Oh, not very much," said Gabussi, "he was very peculiar. He received from time to Time an irresistible
desire to do something, a desire for adventure. For the Family life, he was not made, and that was
for his wife and his children a disaster. Fortunately, his wife was an angel, just an angel, and
Dodo, the eldest son, not less. He was their image of the inside and outside. "

"It therefore still more siblings were there?"

Turned on the chairman. "What happened to them become? "

"Oh, nothing
very good," Gabussi said hesitantly. "You have the father's unfortunate
addiction for adventure inherited. "

"And the elders did not have
anything like this," asked Dr. = = Zeunemann.

"On the contrary,"
said Gabussi with fire. "He was still a child the support of his mother.
He tended the little brothers and sisters, he helped in the kitchen,
home and business, and sang as a lark. His mother was always cheerful
and thankful to God that he had given her such a son. 'The most gracious
of his angels he has sent me' she would say, 'so I'm on earth in heavenly
bliss. " Caused it to her sorrow that he had to work so hard, comforted
them by the fact that God's Loved the force will be. While he did
his homework at night or later Studies was for, she sat beside him
and sewed or mended. So they lived in reality in paradise while the
father was gone. "

"He abused women and children," asked the chairman.


'Dear me,' he thought to himself, 'that's rather tiring! I'll just rest for a few minutes;
it will be some little time yet before the King has got to dessert.' So he threw himself down
on the grass, and, as the sun was very dazzling, he closed his eyes, and in a few seconds had
fallen sound asleep.

In the meantime all the ship's crew were anxiously awaiting him; the King's dinner would soon
be finished, and their comrade had not yet returned. So the man with the marvellous quick hearing
lay down and, putting his ear to the ground, listened.

'That's a nice sort of fellow!' he suddenly exclaimed. 'He's lying on the ground, snoring hard!'

At this the marksman seized his gun, took aim, and fired in the direction of the world's end,
in order to awaken the sluggard. And a moment later the swift runner reappeared, and, stepping
on board the ship, handed the healing water to the Simpleton. So while the King was still sitting
at table finishing his dinner news was brought to him that his orders had been obeyed to the
letter.

What was to be done now? The King determined to think of a still more impossible task. So he
told another courtier to go to the Simpleton with the command that he and his comrades were
instantly to eat up twelve oxen and twelve tons of bread. Once more the sharp-eared comrade
overheard the King's words while he was still talking to the courtier, and reported them to
the Simpleton. The sandstone contains quartz, feldspar, debris and even the binder is hardened
clay. There are small passages in it of brown iron ore, the thick line in Layers peel. We were already
between Encaramada like leaves and the Baraguan found on the shore, and the missionaries had the
same soon for gold, now kept for tin ore. Probably the secondary education has been used to spread
much further. We drove past the mouth of the Rio Parueni over which live Macos-Indians, and spent
the night Panumana on the island. Not without difficulty that I came to the determination of the
length of the place at where the river makes a sharp turn to the West to measure elevation angle
of the Canopus. The Island Panumana is very rich in plants. Here again we find again the bare rocks
that Melastomenbüsche, the little tree lots, that grouping we noticed already in the plane at Carichana was.
The mountains in the great cataracts limited the horizon to the southeast. The further we
came up, the more splendid and picturesque, the banks of the Orinoco.

                            ------------------

11 The sand fleas (pulex penetrans, L.) in humans
and the Monkeys under the nails of the toes and bury their eggs there
.

   Lay
      
      12 The name of the missions in South America consist of all the two
Words, the first of which is necessarily a holy name (the Name the
patron saint of the church), the second an Indian (the Name of the
people who live here, and the area where the mission lies).

   So they say: San Jose de Maypures, Santa Cruz de Cachipo, San Juan Nepomuceno
      de los Atures, etc. This composite name he uses only in the official
      language before, the residents need only one, usually when he euphonious
      is the Indian. Neighboring towns are often the same Holy Name,
      and then flows in a geography hopeless confusion. The name
      of San Juan, San Pedro, San Diego are as scattered about
      at random on our maps.
      
      13 The companion of Diego de Ordaz.
      
      14 The French Botija holds 25 bottles, and has from 1000 to 1200 Cubic
      inches contents.

   

   15 Small waterfalls Chorros, raudalitos.
      

   16 cords of the petioles of a palm tree with feathery leaves, from
the bottom of the speech is being.

   
      

   17 The flesh of the rocou and the Chica are astringent and mild laxative.

18
      The black dye of the corrosive Caruto * * (Genipa americana) resists
the water longer, as we do to our great chagrin We were told himself.

   We were joking one day with the Indians and made us Caruto dots and
      dashes in the face, and you could see the same even when we already
      in the Angostura, bosom European civilization was.
      
      19 Have a nice Saimiri or Titi from the Orinoco to buy in Paramara
      for 8 to 9 piastres, the missionary, paid the Indians of the Monkeys
captured and tamed, 1-1/2 piastres.

   
      
      20 I cite on this occasion that I have never noticed that a painting
of rabbits and deer in natural size and shown were excellent, hunting
dogs, but where the Mind seemed very developed, made the least impression
would have.

   Is there a certified case where a dog's portrait his master would have
      recognized in full figure? In all these cases the face is not supported
      by the smell.
      
      21 Cartas de la edificante Compaña de Jesus, 1757
      
      22 The City of Socorro, south of the Rio Sogamoza and north-north-east
Santa Fe de Bogota, was the principal focus of the rebellion, in the
year 1781 in the kingdom of New Grenada under the Archbishop Viceroy
Gongora broke out because of the drudgery to which the people in consequence
of the Introduction of tobacco lease have been suspended.

   Many busy Residents of Socorro walked back in the Llanos of Meta
on to to escape the persecutions which the Court of Madrid imparts
general amnesty followed.

   These emigrants are called in the missions Socorreños Refugiados.
      
      23 Thus, it is called in an inscription which testifies that on
      13 of the month Pachon was in the tenth year of reign Antony heard
      the sounds.
      
      24 And it will Gumilla Being down on the Guaviare. After it is the
      Raudal de Tabaje below 1 ° 4 'of width, which is 5 ° 10' too little
      is.

   
      Twenty Chapters.

   
      The mouth of the Rio Anaveni. - The Pic Uniana. - The Mission Atures.
      - The cataract or Raudal Mapara. - The Islands Surupamana and Uirapuri.

On

its course from south to north over the Orinocostrom passes a chain
of granite mountains.

      Twice suspended in its course, he breaks his roaring on the rocks,
        which relays and cross dams . Form Nothing grander than this
                         landscape.

Neither the case of the Tequendama at Santa Fe de Bogota, yet the vast Naturscenerie the Cordilleras
were able to blur the impression the rapids and made Atures Maypures on me than I for the first time
saw. If you stand so that one uninterrupted series of cataracts, the immense, from the Rays of
the setting sun illuminated foam and haze area overlooks with a look so it is like watching the entire
stream to hang over his bed.

Such excellent natural formations had been for centuries among the inhabitants of the new World of
attention.

When Diego de Ordaz, Alfonso de Herera and the intrepid Ralegh in the mouth of the Orinoco dropped
anchor, they were the big customer of cataracts the mouths of Indians who have never been there;
verwechsclten them even further east, located cases. However much in the hot zone, the luxuriance
of the vegetation to traffic among the nations is an obstacle, all that relates to the passage of large
currents obtained a reputation that is spreading in vast distances. Equal arms of inland seas, traverse
the Orinoco, Amazon, and Uruguay with a covered area with forests, based on international home that
are in part man-eater. It is not yet two centuries ago, since the Culture and the soft light
of a more humane religion on the banks of this ancient, from Nature dug channels pull up, but
long before the introduction of agriculture, is likely between the scattered, often feuding tribes
an exchange traffic came into existence, spread a thousand random ways the news of extraordinary
phenomena of nature, waterfalls, volcanic flames, the snow that does not differ from the heat of summer.
Three hundred miles from the coasts, in the heart of South America, among nations, that walks
in the Borders three days' journey hold, you will find the news of the Ocean, there are words to describe
a mass of salt water, the hinbreitet, as far as the eye can see. Various incidents as they are not
rare in the life of savages help to disseminate this knowledge. In Consequence of the small wars
between adjacent trays is a prisoner in a foreign country towed, where he is treated as 'Poito'
or 'Mero', which means a slave. After been sold several times and used again in war, he escapes
and returns to his family back. As he told then what he saw, what he has heard others tell their
language He had to learn. So it happens that when one finds a rib of the great beasts Deep inside
the country hears talk, so it is that, if one of the valley of a large river enters, sees
with surprise how much the wild, do not go to the water, to say of far-off things to know. At first
stages of social development occurs earlier in some degree of exchange as the exchange of products.

The
two great cataracts of the Orinoco, enjoy a so extensive, age-old reputation, arise because of
the power of the mountains Parime breaks [p. Volume II, page 374]. When the natives are called Mapara
* * * and * Quittuna, but the missionaries have for Atures Maypures and put the names of the
two strains of it in the first two cases villages brought together. On the coasts of Caracas is called
the two great cataracts simple: the two Raudales * * (25) (rapids)
indicates that on the fact that the other Cases, even the rapids of
Camiseta Carichana and, over the cataracts of Apure Maypures and not
worthy of consideration by.

The latter are below the 5th and 6 Degrees north latitude, a hundred miles west of the Cordilleras
of New Grenada, in the meridian of Porto Cabello, and only twelve miles apart. It is very surprising
that D'Anville has known nothing of them, since he was on his nice big map of South America, the minor
cases of Marimara and San Borja in named rapids and Carichana Tabaje market. The big divide
the cataract Christian settlements in spanish Guyana unequal in half. * Missions at lower * Orinoco
match between the Raudal Atures and the estuary, and among the missions
* on the upper Orinoco * are the villages between the Raudal of Maypures
and the mountains of Duida understood.

The lower reaches of the Orinoco is when one of the bends on a LA CONDAMINE Third of the straight
direction estimates, 260 nautical miles of the upper Orinoco, the three sources Degrees east of
the Duida adopted, 167 miles long.

Beyond the great cataracts begins an unknown country. It is a partly gebirgigter, partly flat
stretch of land through which the tributaries of the Amazon as both the Orinoco . Draw seems due
to the slight movement of the Rio Negro and Grand Para, the same rather Brazil to belong to as
the Spanish colonies. None of the missionaries, before me the Orinoco have described, Fathers
Gumilla, Gili and Canlin is come up on the Raudal of Maypures. The latter, however, has a rather
precise topography of the upper Orinoco and the Cassiquiare delivered, but only after the details
of the military who participated in Solano expedition.

Above the great cataracts we found along the Orinoco River for a distance of a hundred miles only
three Christian branches, and in them were barely six to eight white, that is People of European
descent. It is not surprising that such a desolate country always been the classical ground for
legends and miracle stories was. Hither offset the serious missionaries People who have one eye on
his forehead, a dog's head or mouth with the stomach, where found them all again, what the ancients of the
Garamantes the Arimaspians and Hyperboreans . Tell It would do the simple, sometimes a little crude
missionaries injustice if we believed that they themselves have invented these exaggerated Moravia,
and they have it but for the most part the Indian stories taken. In the missions it likes to
tell how at sea, as in the East, as wherever you're bored. A missionary has not been able to
charge for Sceptirismus inclined, he memorized, what he had said the natives so often, and he
comes to Europe back to the civilized world, he finds a compensation for his complaints in the
Desire, through the story of things that he accepted as facts by vivid description of the room
so far removed to put the people in amazement. Yes, this cuentos de viageros y frailes be less
likely the further one of the forests on the Orinoco away comes to coasts, where the whites
live. If we in Cumana, Nueva Barcelona, ​​and in other ports, have strong relations with the missions,
noted some disbelief, so close to a the mouth with the few words: "The fathers have seen it, but
far above the great cataracts, mos ariba de los Raudales. "

Now that we so rarely visited by those who visit it, only partially described Country to enter,
I have several reasons, my itinerary and also in the form of a Diary continue. The reader distinguishes
lighter, which I myself observed, and what I report to the testimony of the missionaries and Indians,
he accompanied the travelers in their daily activities, he also sees how little time they had
to bid and the difficulties they have faced, and is more lenient in his sentence.

On 15 April. We set off from the island Panumana four clock from morning, two hours before Sunrise, the
sky was partly covered with large and thick, about 40 degrees high
Clouds drove lightning.

We were surprised that we did not hear thunder: it came from the fact that the Storm was so exceptionally
high? It seemed to us than in Europe would be the electric glow without thunder, the lightning,
as it is called with an undetermined expression, is usually much higher detail seen on the
horizon. In the overcast sky, which threw back the radiant heat of the soil, the heat was suffocating
and no breeze stirred the leaves of the trees. As usual, the Jaguars over the creek between
us and the banks come over, and we heard them all roar close to us.

During the night, we had advised the Indians, from the Bivouac to move into an abandoned cottage,
one of the 'conucos' of the inhabitants of Apure, they barricaded the entrance with boards, which
we seemed somewhat superfluous. The Tigers are at the cataracts so often that two years ago,
an Indian, at the end of the rainy season; just here in the conucos Panumana of his hut visited again,
this thing from a female tiger occupied by two boys sand. The animals had lived for several months
here; only with difficulty, they brought them out, and only after a stubborn struggle was the owner
. Collect The Jaguars are happy to pull in abandoned buildings, and does, in my opinion the
individual travelers usually wiser to spend the night under the open sky between two fires,
to seek in uninhabited huts.

Upon departure from the island Panumana we saw on the western bank of the river, the camp fire
wild Guahibo, the missionary, who was with us, had some blind shots to fire in order to To
intimidate, he said, and to show them that we could defend. The savages had without doubt, no canoes,
and probably not feel like us go to the middle of the current to his body. At sunrise, we passed
on the influence of the Rio Anaveni, the eastern of the mountains comes down. are now left its
banks, but the Jesuit Father Olmos had here Japuin- or Jaruro Indians brought together in
a small village. The heat of the day was so strong that we have long held in a shady spot and
fished with a lead.

We were able to Fish we carry them captive, almost all of them. Only very late, we arrived just
below the great cataract in a bay on the bottom of the * port * (puerto de abaxo) means and
were in the dark of night without complaint, on a narrow footpath in the mission Atures, one
mile from the river bank. It comes via a covered with large granite blocks level.

The small village of San Juan Nepomuceno de los * * Atures was in 1748 by the Jesuit Father Francisco
Gonzales created. It is upstream of the last of the Order of St. Ignatius founded Christian establishment.
The further to the south located sites on Atabapo, Cassiquiare and Rio Negro are due by the
Franciskanerorden belonging Observant. Where now the Atures village stands, must formerly flowed
Being the Orinoco, and the completely flat grassland to the village was without a doubt a
piece of the river bed. East of the Mission, I saw a rock series, which I seemed to be the old river
bank. Over the centuries, the current was against West over crowded,
because the eastern mountains, many of which come down white water,
the Alluvial deposits are stronger.

The cataract is, as noted above, Mapara, while the village named after the people of Atures is that
you hold now extinct. On the cards the seventeenth century, I think, "Island and cataract Athul
* *;" Such is * after * Atures the pronunciation of Tamanacas that confuse, as so many people, the
consonants l and r. Up to the middle of the eighteenth century, this gebirgigte country in Europe
so little known that D'Anville go in the first edition of his South America at the Salto de
Atures * * from Orinoco can leave an arm that empties into the Amazon and Rio Negro with him means.

The
old maps, and Father Gumilla in his work place, the mission less than 1 ° 30 'of the Width, and
the Abbé GILI are 3 ° 30 '. After Meridian altitudes of Canopus and the Southern α Cross I
was 5 ° 38 '4 "wide and by transfer of the time 4 hours 41 minutes 17 seconds W, from the Paris
meridian. The inclination of the magnetic needle was on 16 April 30 ° 25; 223 oscillations
in 10 minutes time, gave the measure of the intensity of the magnetic force in Paris is 245 vibrations.

We
found the small mission in the most deplorable condition. At the time of Solano expedition usually
the 'border Expedition' called, were still 520 Indians here, and when we have the Cataracts,
went only 47, and the missionary assured us that upon each year Decrease stronger. He showed
us mentioned that in 32 months, only one marriage in the church book been, with two other marriages
were not catechisirten by Indians before the Indian * * Governador
closed and so, as we say in Europe, the Civilakt been completed.

With the founding of the mission here was Atures, Maypures, Meyepures, Abanis Quirupas and
under each other, instead of these strains we found only Guahibo and a few families from the
tribes Macos. The Atures are almost completely gone, they are known only from their graves in the
cave Ataruipe ago, reminiscent of the tombs of the Guanches in Tenerife. We heard in place, the
Atures have with the Quaquas and Macos or Piaroas the great tribal peoples the * Saliva *
belongs, whereas the Maypures, Abanis, Parenis Guaypunaves and one
descent Seyen with Cabres * * or Caveres called because of their long
wars with the Caribs much be.

In this tangle of small nations, which face each other so harshly, as once the people of Latium,
Asia Minor and Sogdiana, allows the belong together in Most general relationship seen only at
the language. The languages ​​are the only monuments who have come from primitive times to
us, only they, not chained to the floor, movable and continuously at the same time, are so to speak,
through space and time passed. As tough and so many lines, they appear far less common in conquering
and civilized Nations than in migratory, semi-wild strains on the run from powerful enemies
in her deep misery take anything with them as their wives, their children and the dialect of their
ancestors.

Between the fourth and eighth degree of latitude forms the border between the Orinoco not only
the great forest of Parime and the bare savannahs on the Apure, Meta and Guaviare, he separates also hordes
of very different lifestyles. In the West take on the treeless plains of the Guahibo, Chiricoas
and Guamoes around, disgusting dirty people, proud of their wild independence, difficult to tie
to the ground and get used to regular work. The Spanish missionaries describe them quite well
as Indians Andante (running, wandering Indians). East of Orinoco, between each other for obvious
sources of the Caura, and the Cataniapo Ventuari, live the Macos, Saliva, Curacicanas, Parecas and
Maquiritares, meek, quiet, farming driving, easily bred in the missions to be subjected peoples.
* The Indians of the level * differs from the * * Indians of the forests by language, such as
through customs and all the Turn of mind, both have a wealth of vivid, bold expressions language,
but the the former is harsher, shorter, more passionate, the second it is gentle, long-winded
and richer in secondary terms

.
 A Fairy
gave me to your mother in order that I might be of service to you; so let me tell you, that
if you go to sleep and let the wolves harm the tree, the Sun will surely kill you. The Fairy,
foreseeing this, put everyone in the world under a spell, which prevents their obeying the
Sun's command to take your life. But all the same, she has forgotten one person, who will certainly
kill you if you fall asleep and let the wolves damage the tree. So watch and keep the wolves away.'

Then the Sun-Hero strove with all his might and kept the black wolves at bay, and conquered
his desire to sleep; but on the eighth night his strength failed him, and he fell fast asleep.
When he awoke a woman in black stood beside him, who said: 'You have fulfilled your task very
badly, for you have let the two black wolves damage the Tree of the Sun. I am the mother of
the Sun, and I command you to ride away from here at once, and I pronounce sentence of death
upon you, for you proudly let yourself be called the Sun-Hero without having done anything
to deserve the name.'

The youth mounted his horse sadly, and rode home. The people all thronged round him on his
return, anxious to hear his adventures, but he told them nothing, and only to his mother did
he confide what had befallen him. But the old Queen laughed, and said to her son: 'Don't worry,
my child; you see, the Fairy has protected you so far, and the Sun has found no one to kill
you. So cheer up and be happy.'

After a time the Prince forgot all about his adventure, and married a beautiful Princess, with
whom he lived very happily for some time. But one day when he was out hunting he felt very
thirsty, and coming to a stream he stooped down to drink from it, and this caused his death,
for a crab came swimming up, and with its claws tore out his tongue. He was carried home in
a dying condition, and as he lay on his death-bed the black woman appeared and said: 'So the
Sun has, after all, found someone, who was not under the Fairy's spell, who has caused your
death. And a similar fate will overtake everyone under the Sun who wrongfully assumes a title
to which he has no right.'

THE WITCH (28)

(28) From the Russian.

Once upon a time there was a peasant whose wife died, leaving him with two children--twins--a
boy and a girl. For some years the poor man lived on alone with the children, caring for them
as best he could; but everything in the house seemed to go wrong without a woman to look after
it, and at last he made up his mind to marry again, feeling that a wife would bring peace and
order to his household and take care of his motherless children. So he married, and in the
following years several children were born to him; but peace and order did not come to the
household. For the step-mother was very cruel to the twins, and beat them, and half-starved
them, and constantly drove them out of the house; for her one idea was to get them out of the
way. All day she thought of nothing but how she should get rid of them; and at last an evil
idea came into her head, and she determined to send them out into the great gloomy wood where
a wicked witch lived. And so one morning she spoke to them, saying:

'You have been such good children that I am going to send you to visit my granny, who lives
in a dear little hut in the wood. You will have to wait upon her and serve her, but you will
be well rewarded, for she will give you the best of everything.'

So the children left the house together; and the little sister, who was very wise for her years,
said to the brother:

'We will first go and see our own dear grandmother, and tell her where our step-mother is sending
us.'

And when the grandmother heard where they were going, she cried and said:

'You poor motherless children! How I pity you; and yet I can do nothing to help you! Your step-mother
is not sending you to her granny, but to a wicked witch who lives in that great gloomy wood.
Now listen to me, children. You must be civil and kind to everyone, and never say a cross word
to anyone, and never touch a crumb belonging to anyone else. Who knows if, after all, help
may not be sent to you?'

And she gave her grandchildren a bottle of milk and a piece of ham and a loaf of bread, and
they set out for the great gloomy wood. When they reached it they saw in front of them, in
the thickest of the trees, a queer little hut, and when they looked into it, there lay the
witch, with her head on the threshold of the door, with one foot in one corner and the other
in the other corner, and her knees cocked up, almost touching the ceiling.

'Who's there?' she snarled, in an awful voice, when she saw the children.

And they answered civilly, though they were so terrified that they hid behind one another,
and said:

'Good-morning, granny; our step-mother has sent us to wait upon you, and serve you.'

'See that you do it well, then,' growled the witch. 'If I am pleased with you, I'll reward
you; but if I am not, I'll put you in a pan and fry you in the oven--that's what I'll do with
you, my pretty dears! You have been gently reared, but you'll find my work hard enough. See
if you don't.'

And, so saying, she set the girl down to spin yarn, and she gave the boy a sieve in which to
carry water from the well, and she herself went out into the wood. Now, as the girl was sitting
at her distaff, weeping bitterly because she could not spin, she heard the sound of hundreds
of little feet, and from every hole and corner in the hut mice came pattering along the floor,
squeaking and saying:

          'Little girl, why are your eyes so red?
          If you want help, then give us some bread.'

And the girl gave them the bread that her grandmother had given her. Then the mice told her
that the witch had a cat, and the cat was very fond of ham; if she would give the cat her ham,
it would show her the way out of the wood, and in the meantime they would spin the yarn for
her. So the girl set out to look for the cat, and, as she was hunting about, she met her brother,
in great trouble because he could not carry water from the well in a sieve, as it came pouring
out as fast as he put it in. And as she was trying to comfort him they heard a rustling of
wings, and a flight of wrens alighted on the ground beside them. And the wrens said:

          'Give us some crumbs, then you need not grieve.

          For you'll find that water will stay in the sieve.'

Then the twins crumbled their bread on the ground, and the wrens pecked it, and chirruped and
chirped. And when they had eaten the last crumb they told the boy to fill up the holes of the
sieve with clay, and then to draw water from the well. So he did what they said, and carried
the sieve full of water into the hut without spilling a drop. When they entered the hut the
cat was curled up on the floor. So they stroked her, and fed her with ham, and said to her:

'Pussy, grey pussy, tell us how we are to get away from the witch?'

Then the cat thanked them for the ham, and gave them a pocket-handkerchief and a comb, and
told them that when the witch pursued them, as she certainly would, all they had to do was
to throw the handkerchief on the ground and run as fast as they could. As soon as the handkerchief
touched the ground a deep, broad river would spring up, which would hinder the witch's progress.
If she managed to get across it, they must throw the comb behind them and run for their lives,
for where the comb fell a dense forest would start up, which would delay the witch so long
that they would be able to get safely away.

The cat had scarcely finished speaking when the witch returned to see if the children had fulfilled
their tasks.

'Well, you have done well enough for to-day,' she grumbled; 'but to-morrow you'll have something
more difficult to do, and if you don't do it well, you pampered brats, straight into the oven
you go.'

Half-dead with fright, and trembling in every limb, the poor children lay down to sleep on
a heap of straw in the corner of the hut; but they dared not close their eyes, and scarcely
ventured to breathe. In the morning the witch gave the girl two pieces of linen to weave before
night, and the boy a pile of wood to cut into chips. Then the witch left them to their tasks,
and went out into the wood. As soon as she had gone out of sight the children took the comb
and the handkerchief, and, taking one another by the hand, they started and ran, and ran, and
ran. And first they met the watch-dog, who was going to leap on them and tear them to pieces;
but they threw the remains of their bread to him, and he ate them and wagged his tail. Then
they were hindered by the birch-trees, whose branches almost put their eyes out. But the little
sister tied the twigs together with a piece of ribbon, and they got past safely, and, after
running through the wood, came out on to the open fields.

In the meantime in the hut the cat was busy weaving the linen and tangling the threads as it
wove. And the witch returned to see how the children were getting on; and she crept up to the
window, and whispered:

'Are you weaving, my little dear?'

'Yes, granny, I am weaving,' answered the cat.

When the witch saw that the children had escaped her, she was furious, and, hitting the cat
with a porringer, she said: 'Why did you let the children leave the hut? Why did you not scratch
their eyes out?'

But the cat curled up its tail and put its back up, and answered: 'I have served you all these
years and you never even threw me a bone, but the dear children gave me their own piece of ham.'

Then the witch was furious with the watch-dog and with the birch-trees, because they had let
the children pass. But the dog answered:

'I have served you all these years and you never gave me so much as a hard crust, but the dear
children gave me their own loaf of bread.'

And the birch rustled its leaves, and said: 'I have served you longer than I can say, and you
never tied a bit of twine even round my branches; and the dear children bound them up with
their brightest ribbons.'

So the witch saw there was no help to be got from her old servants, and that the best thing
she could do was to mount on her broom and set off in pursuit of the children. And as the children
ran they heard the sound of the broom sweeping the ground close behind them, so instantly they
threw the handkerchief down over their shoulder, and in a moment a deep, broad river flowed
behind them.

When the witch came up to it, it took her a long time before she found a place which she could
ford over on her broom-stick; but at last she got across, and continued the chase faster than
before. And as the children ran they heard a sound, and the little sister put her ear to the
ground, and heard the broom sweeping the earth close behind them; so, quick as thought, she
threw the comb down on the ground, and in an instant, as the cat had said, a dense forest sprung
up, in which the roots and branches were so closely intertwined, that it was impossible to
force a way through it. So when the witch came up to it on her broom she found that there was
nothing for it but to turn round and go back to her hut.

But the twins ran straight on till they reached their own home. Then they told their father
all that they had suffered, and he was so angry with their step-mother that he drove her out
of the house, and never let her return; but he and the children lived happily together; and
he took care of them himself, and never let a stranger come near them.

THE HAZEL-NUT CHILD (29)

(29) From the Bukowniaer. Van Wliolocki.

There was once upon a time a couple who had no children, and they prayed Heaven every day to
send them a child, though it were no bigger than a hazel-nut. At last Heaven heard their prayer
and sent them a child exactly the size of a hazel-nut, and it never grew an inch. The parents
were very devoted to the little creature, and nursed and tended it carefully. Their tiny son
too was as clever as he could be, and so sharp and sensible that all the neighbours marvelled
over the wise things he said and did.

When the Hazel-nut child was fifteen years old, and was sitting one day in an egg-shell on
the table beside his mother, she turned to him and said, 'You are now fifteen years old, and
nothing can be done with you. What do you intend to be?'

'A messenger,' answered the Hazel-nut child.

Then his mother burst out laughing and said, 'What an idea! You a messenger! Why, your little
feet would take an hour to go the distance an ordinary person could do in a minute!'

But the Hazel-nut child replied, 'Nevertheless I mean to be a messenger! Just send me a message
and you'll see that I shall be back in next to no time.'

So his mother said, 'Very well, go to your aunt in the neighbouring village, and fetch me a
comb.' The Hazel-nut child jumped quickly out of the egg-shell and ran out into the street.
Here he found a man on horseback who was just setting out for the neighbouring village. He
crept up the horse's leg, sat down under the saddle, and then began to pinch the horse and
to prick it with a pin. The horse plunged and reared and then set off at a hard gallop, which
it continued in spite of its rider's efforts to stop it. When they reached the village, the
Hazel-nut child left off pricking the horse, and the poor tired creature pursued its way at
a snail's pace. The Hazel-nut child took advantage of this, and crept down the horse's leg;
then he ran to his aunt and asked her for a comb. On the way home he met another rider, and
did the return journey in exactly the same way. When he handed his mother the comb that his
aunt had given him, she was much amazed and asked him, 'But how did you manage to get back
so quickly?'

'Ah! mother,' he replied, 'you see I was quite right when I said I knew a messenger was the
profession for me.'

His father too possessed a horse which he often used to take out into the fields to graze.
One day he took the Hazel-nut child with him. At midday the father turned to his small son
and said, 'Stay here and look after the horse. I must go home and give your mother a message,
but I shall be back soon.'

When his father had gone, a robber passed by and saw the horse grazing without any one watching
it, for of course he could not see the Hazel-nut child hidden in the grass. So he mounted the
horse and rode away. But the Hazel-nut child, who was the most active little creature, climbed
up the horse's tail and began to bite it on the back, enraging the creature to such an extent
that it paid no attention to the direction the robber tried to make it go in, but galloped
straight home. The father was much astonished when he saw a stranger riding his horse, but
the Hazel-nut child climbed down quickly and told him all that had happened, and his father
had the robber arrested at once and put into prison.

One autumn when the Hazel-nut child was twenty years old he said to his parents: 'Farewell,
my dear father and mother. I am going to set out into the world, and as soon as I have become
rich I will return home to you.'

The parents laughed at the little man's words, but did not believe him for a moment. In the
evening the Hazel-nut child crept on to the roof, where some storks had built their nest. The
storks were fast asleep, and he climbed on to the back of the father-stork and bound a silk
cord round the joint of one of its wings, then he crept among its soft downy feathers and fell
asleep.

The next morning the storks flew towards the south, for winter was approaching. The Hazel-nut
child flew through the air on the stork's back, and when he wanted to rest he bound his silk
cord on to the joint of the bird's other wing, so that it could not fly any farther. In this
way he reached the country of the black people, where the storks took up their abode close
to the capital. When the people saw the Hazel-nut child they were much astonished, and took
him with the stork to the King of the country. The King was delighted with the little creature
and kept him always beside him, and he soon grew so fond of the little man that he gave him
a diamond four times as big as himself. The Hazel-nut child fastened the diamond firmly under
the stork's neck with a ribbon, and when he saw that the other storks were getting ready for
their northern flight, he untied the silk cord from his stork's wings, and away they went,
getting nearer home every minute. At length the Hazel-nut child came to his native village;
then he undid the ribbon from the stork's neck and the diamond fell to the ground; he covered
it first with sand and stones, and then ran to get his parents, so that they might carry the
treasure home, for he himself was not able to lift the great diamond.

So the Hazel-nut child and his parents lived in happiness and prosperity after this till they died.

THE STORY OF BIG KLAUS AND LITTLE KLAUS

In a certain village there lived two people who had both the same name. Both were called Klaus,
but one owned four horses and the other only one. In order to distinguish the one from the
other, the one who had four horses was called Big Klaus, and the one who had only one horse,
Little Klaus. Now you shall hear what befell them both, for this is a true story.

The whole week through Little Klaus had to plough for Big Klaus, and lend him his one horse;
then Big Klaus lent him his four horses, but only once a week, and that was on Sunday. Hurrah!
how loudly Little Klaus cracked his whip over all the five horses! for they were indeed as
good as his on this one day. The sun shone brightly, and all the bells in the church-towers
were pealing; the people were dressed in their best clothes, and were going to church, with
their hymn books under their arms, to hear the minister preach. They saw Little Klaus ploughing
with the five horses; but he was so happy that he kept on cracking his whip, and calling out
'Gee-up, my five horses!'

'You mustn't say that,' said Big Klaus. 'Only one horse is yours.'

But as soon as someone else was going by Little Klaus forgot that he must not say it, and called
out 'Gee-up, my five horses!'

'Now you had better stop that,' said Big Klaus, 'for if you say it once more I will give your
horse such a crack on the head that it will drop down dead on the spot!'

'I really won't say it again!' said Little Klaus. But as soon as more people passed by, and
nodded him good-morning, he became so happy in thinking how well it looked to have five horses
ploughing his field that, cracking his whip, he called out 'Gee-up, my five horses!'

'I'll see to your horses!' said Big Klaus; and, seizing an iron bar, he struck Little Klaus'
one horse such a blow on the head that it fell down and died on the spot.

'Alas! Now I have no horse!' said Little Klaus, beginning to cry. Then he flayed the skin off
his horse, dried it, and put it in a sack, which he threw over his shoulder, and went into
the town to sell it. He had a long way to go, and had to pass through a great dark forest.
A dreadful storm came on, in which he lost his way, and before he could get on to the right
road night came on, and it was impossible to reach the town that evening.

Right in front of him was a large farm-house. The window-shutters were closed, but the light
came through the chinks. 'I should very much like to be allowed to spend the night there,'
thought Little Klaus; and he went and knocked at the door. The farmer's wife opened it, but
when she heard what he wanted she told him to go away; her husband was not at home, and she
took in no strangers.

'Well, I must lie down outside,' said Little Klaus; and the farmer's wife shut the door in
his face. Close by stood a large haystack, and between it and the house a little out-house,
covered with a flat thatched roof.

'I can lie down there,' thought Little Klaus, looking at the roof; 'it will make a splendid
bed, if only the stork won't fly down and bite my legs.' For a live stork was standing on the
roof, where it had its nest. So Little Klaus crept up into the out-house, where he lay down,
and made himself comfortable for the night. The wooden shutters over the windows were not shut
at the top, and he could just see into the room.

There stood a large table, spread with wine and roast meat and a beautiful fish. The farmer's
wife and the sexton sat at the table, but there was no one else. She was filling up his glass,
while he stuck his fork into the fish which was his favourite dish.

'If one could only get some of that!' thought Little Klaus, stretching his head towards the
window. Ah, what delicious cakes he saw standing there! It WAS a feast!

Then he heard someone riding along the road towards the house. It was the farmer coming home.
He was a very worthy man; but he had one great peculiarity--namely, that he could not bear
to see a sexton. If he saw one he was made quite mad. That was why the sexton had gone to say
good-day to the farmer's wife when he knew that her husband was not at home, and the good woman
therefore put in front of him the best food she had. But when they heard the farmer coming
they were frightened, and the farmer's wife begged the sexton to creep into a great empty chest.
He did so, as he knew the poor man could not bear to see a sexton. The wife hastily hid all
the beautiful food and the wine in her oven; for if her husband had seen it, he would have
been sure to ask what it all meant.

'Oh, dear! oh, dear!' groaned Little Klaus up in the shed, when he saw the good food disappearing.

'Is anybody up there?' asked the farmer, catching sight of Little Klaus. 'Why are you lying
there? Come with me into the house.'

Then Little Klaus told him how he had lost his way, and begged to be allowed to spend the night
there.

'Yes, certainly,' said the farmer; 'but we must first have something to eat!'

The wife received them both very kindly, spread a long table, and gave them a large plate of
porridge. The farmer was hungry, and ate with a good appetite; but Little Klaus could not help
thinking of the delicious dishes of fish and roast meats and cakes which he knew were in the
oven. Under the table at his feet he had laid the sack with the horse-skin in it, for, as we
know, he was going to the town to sell it. The porridge did not taste good to him, so he trod
upon his sack, and the dry skin in the sack squeaked loudly.

'Hush!' said Little Klaus to his sack, at the same time treading on it again so that it squeaked
even louder than before.

'Hallo! what have you got in your sack?' asked the farmer.

'Oh, it is a wizard!' said Little Klaus. 'He says we should not eat porridge, for he has conjured
the whole oven full of roast meats and fish and cakes.'

'Goodness me!' said the farmer; and opening the oven he saw all the delicious, tempting dishes
his wife had hidden there, but which he now believed the wizard in the sack had conjured up
for them. The wife could say nothing, but she put the food at once on the table, and they ate
the fish, the roast meat, and the cakes. Little Klaus now trod again on his sack, so that the
skin squeaked.

'What does he say now?' asked the farmer.

'He says,' replied Little Klans, 'that he has also conjured up for us three bottles of wine;
they are standing in the corner by the oven!'

The wife had to fetch the wine which she had hidden, and the farmer drank and grew very merry.
He would very much like to have had such a wizard as Little Klaus had in the sack.

'Can he conjure up the Devil?' asked the farmer. 'I should like to see him very much, for I
feel just now in very good spirits!'

'Yes,' said Little Klaus; 'my wizard can do everything that I ask. Isn't that true?' he asked,
treading on the sack so that it squeaked. 'Do you hear? He says ''Yes;'' but that the Devil
looks so ugly that we should not like to see him.'

'Oh! I'm not at all afraid. What does he look like?'

'He will show himself in the shape of a sexton!'

'I say!' said the farmer, 'he must be ugly! You must know that I can't bear to look at a sexton!
But it doesn't matter. I know that it is the Devil, and I sha'n't mind! I feel up to it now.
But he must not come too near me!'

'I must ask my wizard,' said Little Klaus, treading on the sack and putting his ear to it.

'What does he say?'

'He says you can open the chest in the corner there, and you will see the Devil squatting inside
it; but you must hold the lid so that he shall not escape.'

'Will you help me to hold him?' begged the farmer, going towards the chest where his wife had
hidden the real sexton, who was sitting inside in a terrible fright. The farmer opened the
lid a little way, and saw him inside.

'Ugh!' he shrieked, springing back. 'Yes, now I have seen him; he looked just like our sexton.
Oh, it was horrid!'

So he had to drink again, and they drank till far on into the night.

'You MUST sell me the wizard,' said the farmer. 'Ask anything you like! I will pay you down
a bushelful of money on the spot.'

'No, I really can't,' said Little Klans. 'Just think how many things I can get from this wizard!'

'Ah! I should like to have him so much!' said the farmer, begging very hard.

'Well!' said Little Klaus at last, 'as you have been so good as to give me shelter to-night,
I will sell him. You shall have the wizard for a bushel of money, but I must have full measure.'

'That you shall,' said the farmer. 'But you must take the chest with you. I won't keep it another
hour in the house. Who knows that he isn't in there still?'

Little Klaus gave the farmer his sack with the dry skin, and got instead a good bushelful of
money. The farmer also gave him a wheelbarrow to carry away his money and the chest. 'Farewell,'
said Little Klaus; and away he went with his money and the big chest, wherein sat the sexton.

On the other side of the wood was a large deep river. The water flowed so rapidly that you
could scarcely swim against the stream.

A great new bridge had been built over it, on the middle of which Little Klaus stopped, and
said aloud so that the sexton might hear:

'Now, what am I to do with this stupid chest? It is as heavy as if it were filled with stones!
I shall only be tired, dragging it along; I will throw it into the river. If it swims home
to me, well and good; and if it doesn't, it's no matter.'

Then he took the chest with one hand and lifted it up a little, as if he were going to throw
it into the water.

'No, don't do that!' called out the sexton in the chest. 'Let me get out first!'

'Oh, oh!' said Little Klaus, pretending that he was afraid. 'He is still in there! I must throw
him quickly into the water to drown him!'

'Oh! no, no!' cried the sexton. 'I will give you a whole bushelful of money if you will let me go!'

'Ah, that's quite another thing!' said Little Klaus, opening the chest. The sexton crept out
very quickly, pushed the empty chest into the water and went to his house, where he gave Little
Klaus a bushel of money. One he had had already from the farmer, and now he had his wheelbarrow
full of money.

'Well, I have got a good price for the horse!' said he to himself when he shook all his money
out in a heap in his room. 'This will put Big Klaus in a rage when he hears how rich I have
become through my one horse; but I won't tell him just yet!'

So he sent a boy to Big Klaus to borrow a bushel measure from him.

'Now what can he want with it?' thought Big Klaus; and he smeared some tar at the bottom, so
that of whatever was measured a little should remain in it. And this is just what happened;
for when he got his measure back, three new silver five-shilling pieces were sticking to it.

What does this mean?' said Big Klaus, and he ran off at once to Little Klaus.

'Where did you get so much money from?'

'Oh, that was from my horse-skin. I sold it yesterday evening.'

'That's certainly a good price!' said Big Klaus; and running home in great haste, he took an
axe, knocked all his four horses on the head, skinned them, and went into the town.

'Skins! skins! Who will buy skins?' he cried through the streets.

All the shoemakers and tanners came running to ask him what he wanted for them. 'A bushel of
money for each,' said Big Klaus.

'Are you mad?' they all exclaimed. 'Do you think we have money by the bushel?'

'Skins! skins! Who will buy skins?' he cried again, and to all who asked him what they cost,
he answered, 'A bushel of money.'

'He is making game of us,' they said; and the shoemakers seized their yard measures and the
tanners their leathern aprons and they gave Big Klaus a good beating. 'Skins! skins!' they
cried mockingly; yes, we will tan YOUR skin for you! Out of the town with him!' they shouted;
and Big Klaus had to hurry off as quickly as he could, if he wanted to save his life.

'Aha!' said he when he came home, 'Little Klaus shall pay dearly for this. I will kill him!'

Little Klaus' grandmother had just died. Though she had been very unkind to him, he was very
much distressed, and he took the dead woman and laid her in his warm bed to try if he could
not bring her back to life. There she lay the whole night, while he sat in the corner and slept
on a chair, which he had often done before. And in the night as he sat there the door opened,
and Big Klaus came in with his axe. He knew quite well where Little Klaus's bed stood, and
going up to it he struck the grandmother on the head just where he thought Little Klaus would
be. 'There!' said he. 'Now you won't get the best of me again!' And he went home.

'What a very wicked man!' thought Little Klaus. 'He was going to kill me! It was a good thing
for my grandmother that she was dead already, or else he would have killed her!'

Then he dressed his grandmother in her Sunday clothes, borrowed a horse from his neighbour,
harnessed the cart to it, sat his grandmother on the back seat so that she could not fall out
when he drove, and away they went. When the sun rose they were in front of a large inn. Little
Klaus got down, and went in to get something to drink. The host was very rich. He was a very
worthy but hot-tempered man.

'Good morning!' said he to Little Klaus. 'You are early on the road.'

'Yes,' said Little Klaus. 'I am going to the town with my grandmother. She is sitting outside
in the cart; I cannot bring her in. Will you not give her a glass of mead? But you will have
to speak loud, for she is very hard of hearing.'

'Oh yes, certainly I will!' said the host; and, pouring out a large glass of mead, he took
it out to the dead grandmother, who was sitting upright in the cart.

'Here is a glass of mead from your son,' said the host. But the dead woman did not answer a
word, and sat still. 'Don't you hear?' cried the host as loud as he could. 'Here is a glass
of mead from your son!'

Then he shouted the same thing again, and yet again, but she never moved in her place; and
at last he grew angry, threw the glass in her face, so that she fell back into the cart, for
she was not tied in her place.

'Hullo!' cried Little Klaus, running out of the door, and seizing the host by the throat. 'You
have killed my grandmother! Look! there is a great hole in her forehead!'

'Oh, what a misfortune!' cried the host, wringing his hands. 'It all comes from my hot temper!
Dear Little Klaus! I will give you a bushel of money, and will bury your grandmother as if
she were my own; only don't tell about it, or I shall have my head cut off, and that would
be very uncomfortable.'

So Little Klaus got a bushel of money, and the host buried his grandmother as if she had been
his own.

Now when Little Klaus again reached home with so much money he sent his boy to Big Klaus to
borrow his bushel measure.

'What's this?' said Big Klaus. 'Didn't I kill him? I must see to this myself!'

So he went himself to Little Klaus with the measure.

'Well, now, where did you get all this money?' asked he, opening his eyes at the heap.

'You killed my grandmother--not me,' said Little Klaus. 'I sold her, and got a bushel of money
for her.'

'That is indeed a good price!' said Big Klaus; and, hurrying home, he took an axe and killed
his grandmother, laid her in the cart, and drove off to the apothecary's, and asked whether
he wanted to buy a dead body.

'Who is it, and how did you get it?' asked the apothecary.

'It is my grandmother,' said Big Klaus. So I am now but how can I win father and mother "?

It said, however, the good, sensible young man, "Oh, I'll give you right, you clever, admirable
girl you first and foremost ask you about the meaning of the parents! For as I vainly sought
to serve the father, if I myself as the economy as the mine took, early and late in the field, and
then purchase the vineyard. My mother met ' I well, they knew it to appreciate, and so you will appear
to her and the most excellent girls, If you manage the house as if you deliberately yours. But
the father did not, for so This also loves the glow. Good girl, hold me not for cold and numb,
If I am the father to you immediately, the strangers reveal. Yes, I swear, the first time
is he that is leaving me without a word like the tongue, which is not used to chattering; But
you show me a lure from the breast of each trust. Some of the ornament requires good Father outward
sign of life, Pray for a sign of love, just as the worship, and he would perhaps met by the poor servant
who knew this use, the better and would be angry. "

Joyfully she said on it, while the faster steps through the darkening path doubling with a slight
movement: "The two together I hope to be true to satisfy, because the mother Sense, as my
own being, and the external ornament of youth, I'm not foreign. Our neighbors, the Franks,
in their earlier time considered much politeness, they was the nobles and common citizens
like farmers, and everyone recommended it to his family. And so taught us habitually on the German
side also the children of the morning with Haendekuessen and buckling Segenswuensche's parents
and were morally in the day. All I learned and what I'm used to from an early age, what is the
heart of me - I do it the old . Shew But who tells me now: I like you to meet yourself, you, the
only son and future, my lord?

"

So she spoke, and they just came under the pear tree. The moon shines beautifully, the full,
down from the sky, night's, was completely covered with the last glow of the sun. And Thus, before
them lay in masses against each other light, bright as day, and darker shade Nights. And it
heard the question, the friendly, happy in the shadow of Hermann, the magnificent Tree, the place
which was dear to him so that still saw the tears to his exiles. And as they settled a little
gesetzet to rest, said the loving young man's hand touching of the girl, "Let your heart you say
it, and consequently he was free for all in all!" But He ventured no further word, so also
was the hour auspicious, and he was afraid, only a no to overtake, Oh, and he felt the ring
on her finger, the painful character. So sat they still and in silence. But the girl began saying,
"How do I find glorious glow of the moon so cute! He is the clarity of the day the same. I see
it there the houses in the city clearly and yards, the gable window,
it seems to me, I count the windows.

"

"What you see," said it held the youth, "This is our home, in the I would draw you down, And
there is this window of my room in the roof, perhaps the your now is: we Change customer at home.
These are our fields, they mature to morrow Harvest. Here in the shadow we want to rest and enjoy the
meal. But now let us down by climbing vines and gardens, for, lo, it disassociates the severe
thunderstorms over here, summer lightning and soon devouring the lovely full moon. "And so they
stood up and walked down, the field out by the powerful corn, the
nocturnal clarity rejoicing, and they were the vineyard come and entered
into darkness.

And so, 'he leads them down the number of slabs which were not cut down, as steps in the arcade.
She slowly walked down, the hands on his shoulders, and with varying Lights through the leaves,
the moon looked over her, until he, surrounded by storm clouds, in the dark the couple left.
Carefully supported the Strong, the girl who herhing about him, but she, Stepping ignorant of the
trail and the ruder stages, was missing, it cracked the foot, she threatened to fall. Stretched
piece turned from thoughtful Juengling the arm, held up the beloved; she fell softly on the
shoulder, chest to chest and Wang was lowered to 'cheek. Such was He, Starr as a marble statue by
the earnest desire subdued, pressed it to non-solid, He braced himself against gravity. And so,
'he feels the glorious burden, the warmth of the heart And the balm
of breath, verhauchet on his words, the deception with Mannesgefuehl
Heldengroesse of the woman.

But they conceal the pain and said the joking words: "It means disappointment so When people
say safer when entering the house, not far from the threshold, the foot crack. 'I ought to
be true gewuenschet a better sign!

Let us a little To linger so you do not blame the parents because
of the limping servant and a bad Host you appear.

"

Urania views

Muses who favored her so much the warm love, on the way so far the excellent Juengling headed
to his breast the girl you still pressed against the engagement: Helfet and also the federal
government to complete the lovely couple, the clouds parted at once, over the to draw up their
luck! But above all, saith, now what always happens in the house!

Impatient for the third time the mother entered the room again Even
the men, the carefully until they leave, Speaking of thunderstorms,
from the rapid darkening of the moon, then Stay outside of the son
and the nights hazards; lively reproaches his friends that, without
to talk the girl to advertise for him without them as soon getrennet
of youth.

"Do not make the disease worse!" offset 'the father angrily, "For you see, we wait even, and
wait for the outcome. "

But let the neighbor began to talk, sitting: "Again I owe it but restless in such Hour of My late
father, to me, as boys, only pulling up the root of all impatience, that no Faesch stayed behind
and I expect to learn at once, as none of the wise. "" Say ", replied the priest, "what Kunststueck
took the old man?" "I like to tell you, because anyone can remember, "the neighbor said it."
As a boy I stood impatiently on Sunday once the coach eagerly awaiting to us should also lead
to the fountain of Linden. But they did not, and I ran like a weasel here and there, up and down stairs
and from the window to the door. My hands tingled me, I scratched the tables, Trappelte stomping
around and near me was crying. Everything looked calm the man, but when I Not to finally foolish
business, he took me quietly by the arm, led me to the window back and said the alarming words:
"Look over there for the carpenter now closed Workshop? Morning he opened them, touch them because
the plane and saw, And so it goes from early until evening, the hard-working hours. But do
remember this: the morning will be released in future, Since the master stirs with all his
companions to prepare you a coffin and quickly sent to complete, and they boarded the house
transferred business over here, the the Geduld'gen modified and takes
the impatient, and very soon destined to take a sweltering roof is.

"All at once I saw the spirit really happened, saw the boards and joined the black color, prepares
sat patiently, waiting quietly now the coach.

Other race now doubtful expectation skittish around, I have to remember the coffin. "

Smiling, the pastor said, "Not touching picture of Death is the horror of the Wise and not as
the end of the Pious.

But the door opened. It was the beautiful couple, and it astonished the friends the loving parents
were astonished at the formation of the bride, the groom comparable education; Yes, the door seemed too
small to take in the high figures, which now entered together the threshold. Hermann presented the
parents with them before flying words. "Here," 'says . He, "a girl, just like in your home,
they receive not Pray Dear Father, they are good, they earned it. And mother, she asked immediately
after the full extent of the economy, That you see how much they earned, to be closer to you.
"Hastily he led to the excellent Pastor aside, said, "Reverend, now help me out quick this concern,
and loosens the node before its development, I shudder. For I have the girl as my bride not advertised,
but it feels as maid in the house go, and I fear that angry She fled as soon as we commemorate
the marriage. But it was decided at once! No longer Should she remain in error, as I do not longer
endure the doubt. Hasten and sheweth also Here the wisdom that we worship, "and it turned the
same clergyman to society. But was unfortunately marred by the speech of the father's already
the soul of the girl he had the cheerful words with comfortable way in the good sense said: "Yes,
I like my Child! With joy I learn, the son also as the father of taste, which at the time it
rejected. Always the most beautiful to dance and finally led as the most beautiful in his
house Woman brought in; the mother was.

For the bride, the man chosen to be equal to recognize what spirits he is, and whether he felt
his own value.

But you needed it probably only little time to resolution? For methinks to be true, it is so
hard not to follow. "

Hermann heard the words only fugitive his limbs trembled inside, and quiet was the whole Circle
is now at a time.

But this admirable girl, mocking of such words, as it seemed they violated and taken deep into
the soul, as with flying redden the cheeks up against the neck About gutters, but she stopped
and pulled himself together, not to the old language on completely hiding the pain, "Traun
has not prepared me for such a reception of the son! The way I described the father, the excellent
citizen of, And I know I am against You, the educated man who amounts to wisely and according
to each person.

But It seems that you feel not sympathy enough with the poor, who now enters the threshold and
which is ready to serve you, because otherwise you would not show me with a bitter mockery,
How do I remove my fate of your son and you should. Of course I'll step only poor, with a small
bundle into the house, the mistaken with all the happy people make certain, but I know myself
well and feel the whole relationship. Is it noble, like me with such to make mockery of me
already almost on the threshold of the house is driving back? "

Bang moved Hermann and waved to the spiritual friends that he was beating himself into the middle,
to scare the mistake immediately. Hastily approached the wise and looked the girl Silent frustration
and pain and tears kept in mind. Then he ordered his mind not equal to solve the confusion, but
rather to examine the moving spirit of the girl. And he then said to her, with tempting words: "Sure,
you probably do not more thoughtful, o Girl from the outside, if you decided to serve up at strangers
too hastily, what does it hot to enter the house of the commanding Lord, for the handshake
determines the whole Fate of the year, and even much connects to tolerate a single yes. But are not
the hardest part of the service the tiresome way, not the bitter sweat of the nagging Work, for
the servants at the same time try to correspond the activity free:
to tolerate, but the mood of the Lord when he blames unjustly, or
this and that desire, in conflict with itself, And yet the violence
of the women who angered easily to The Children's crude and arrogant
Naughty: That is hard to bear, and yet the obligation to comply Ungesaeumt
and promptly, and not faltering even grumpy.

But you seem to not be sent because the jokes Already the father to meet you so deeply, and
yet nothing is more common occurs when a girl to plague that probably she liked a boy. "

So, he said. It felt the apt question the girl, and she was no longer; it is their feelings
were powerful, it is lifted the chest, from which it came a sigh, And they said at once with
hot tears shed, "Oh, never know the thoughtful man, Think of the pain we have to guess how
little free his word, the cold, chest The from the suffering that can, the fate hangs high
us. You are happy and glad how could you injure a joke? But the hospital late and feels painful, the
quiet Touched. No, I'm not Help there, even if I adjust Hundt. See the regardless of what later
only deeper pain increased and pushed me perhaps still consuming Misery. Let me away again! I
shall not dwell in the house, I want to leave and go To find the arms of my, which I left in the
accident, only the better for me choosing. This is my firm resolve, and I must confess to you
about now, what else is in the heart year had probably hidden. Yes, his father's scorn has deeply
affected me, not because I Am proud and sensitive, as it probably does not breach good manners
of the maid, but because for me the true The inclination of the heart was stirring against
the youth, who appeared today as a savior to me. Because when he first left me on the street, he
was always remained in thought, and I 'm the lucky girl he keep perhaps even as a bride in the
heart wants. And when I found him again at the well, no wonder I am seeing him so much, as
if it were me of the heavenly one appeared. And I followed him so much, as he now to be her maid
me advertised. But I am certainly flattered the heart (I will admit it) On the way here, as
if I might make it if I did the house one day indispensable Lend support. But, alas! Now I see
first the dangers into which I went as close to the tranquil Loved to live. Only now I feel
like a poor girl is far away from the rich young man, and if they were the fittest. All that
I said to her Decrease the heart Ennetbürgen not It offends a coincidence that I owe the senses.
For the need I expect any hidden desires concealing that he was taking the bride initially broughtest
to the house, and how could I then bear the secret pain? Happy I am warned, and happy solves
the mystery of the breast is going on now, there the disease is curable. But that being said!
And now is no longer here at home there To keep where I am only ashamed and afraid, open the confessional
inclination and those foolish Hope. Not the night which is widely covered with falling clouds, not
the rolling Donner (I hear him) is to prevent me, not the rain, casting, outside herabschlaegt
force, Even the roaring storm. I have to endure all the sad flight, and pursued close Enemies.


Each of them then began to flay their own ox, but Ring was only half through by the time Snati
had finished his. In the evening, after they had finished this task, the Prince thought himself
unfit to carry all the horns and both the hides, so Snati told him to lay them all on his back
until they got to the Palace gate.

The Prince agreed, and laid everything on the Dog except the skin of the smaller ox, which
he staggered along with himself. At the Palace gate he left everything lying, went before the
King, and asked him to come that length with him, and there handed over to him the hides and
horns of the oxen. The King was greatly surprised at his valour, and said he knew no one like
him, and thanked him heartily for what he had done.

After this the King set Ring next to himself, and all esteemed him highly, and held him to
be a great hero; nor could Red any longer say anything against him, though he grew still more
determined to destroy him. One day a good idea came into his head. He came to the King and
said he had something to say to him.

'What is that?' said the King.

Red said that he had just remembered the gold cloak, gold chess-board, and bright gold piece
that the King had lost about a year before.

'Don't remind me of them!' said the King.

Red, however, went on to say that, since Ring was such a mighty man that he could do everything,
it had occurred to him to advise the King to ask him to search for these treasures, and come
back with them before Christmas; in return the King should promise him his daughter.

The King replied that he thought it altogether unbecoming to propose such a thing to Ring,
seeing that he could not tell him where the things were; but Red pretended not to hear the
King's excuses, and went on talking about it until the King gave in to him. One day, a month
or so before Christmas, the King spoke to Ring, saying that he wished to ask a great favour of him.

'What is that?' said Ring. If you can bring them to me before Christmas I will give you my
daughter in marriage.'

'Where am I to look for them, then?' said Ring.

'That you must find out for yourself,' said the King: 'I don't know.'

Ring now left the King, and was very silent, for he saw he was in a great difficulty: but,
on the other hand, he thought it was excellent to have such a chance of winning the King's
daughter. Snati noticed that his master was at a loss, and said to him that he should not disregard
what the King had asked him to do; but he would have to act upon his advice, otherwise he would
get into great difficulties. The Prince assented to this, and began to prepare for the journey.

After he had taken leave of the King, and was setting out on the search, Snati said to him,
'Now you must first of all go about the neighbourhood, and gather as much salt as ever you
can.' The Prince did so, and gathered so much salt that he could hardly carry it; but Snati
said, 'Throw it on my back,' which he accordingly did, and the Dog then ran on before the Prince,
until they came to the foot of a steep cliff.

'We must go up here,' said Snati.

'I don't think that will be child's play,' said the Prince.

'Hold fast by my tail,' said Snati; and in this way he pulled Ring up on the lowest shelf of
the rock. The Prince began to get giddy, but up went Snati on to the second shelf. Ring was
nearly swooning by this time, but Snati made a third effort and reached the top of the cliff,
where the Prince fell down in a faint. After a little, however, he recovered again, and they
went a short distance along a level plain, until they came to a cave. This was on Christmas
Eve. They went up above the cave, and found a window in it, through which they looked, and
saw four trolls lying asleep beside the fire, over which a large porridge-pot was hanging.

'Now you must empty all the salt into the porridge-pot,' said Snati.

Ring did so, and soon the trolls wakened up. The old hag, who was the most frightful of them
all, went first to taste the porridge.

'How comes this?' she said; 'the porridge is salt! I got the milk by witchcraft yesterday out
of four kingdoms, and now it is salt!'

All the others then came to taste the porridge, and thought it nice, but after they had finished
it the old hag grew so thirsty that she could stand it no longer, and asked her daughter to
go out and bring her some water from the river that ran near by.

'I won't go,' said she, 'unless you lend me your bright gold piece.'

'Though I should die you shan't have that,' said the hag.

'Die, then,' said the girl.

'Well, then, take it, you brat,' said the old hag, 'and be off with you, and make haste with
the water.'

The girl took the gold and ran out with it, and it was so bright that it shone all over the
plain. As soon as she came to the river she lay down to take a drink of the water, but meanwhile
the two of them had got down off the roof and thrust her, head first, into the river.

The old hag began now to long for the water, and said that the girl would be running about
with the gold piece all over the plain, so she asked her son to go and get her a drop of water.

'I won't go,' said he, 'unless I get the gold cloak.'

'Though I should die you shan't have that,' said the hag.

'Die, then,' said the son.

'Well, then, take it,' said the old hag, 'and be off with you, but you must make haste with
the water.'

He put on the cloak, and when he came outside it shone so bright that he could see to go with
it. On reaching the river he went to take a drink like his sister, but at that moment Ring
and Snati sprang upon him, took the cloak from him, and threw him into the river.

The old hag could stand the thirst no longer, and asked her husband to go for a drink for her;
the brats, she said, were of course running about and playing themselves, just as she had expected
they would, little wretches that they were.

'I won't go,' said the old troll, 'unless you lend me the gold chess-board.'

'Though I should die you shan't have that,' said the hag.

'I think you may just as well do that,' said he, 'since you won't grant me such a little favour.'

'Take it, then, you utter disgrace!' said the old hag, 'since you are just like these two brats.'

The old troll now went out with the gold chess-board, and down to the river, and was about
to take a drink, when Ring and Snati came upon him, took the chess-board from him, and threw
him into the river. Before they had got back again, however, and up on top of the cave, they
saw the poor old fellow's ghost come marching up from the river. Snati immediately sprang upon
him, and Ring assisted in the attack, and after a hard struggle they mastered him a second
time. When they got back again to the window they saw that the old hag was moving towards the door.

'Now we must go in at once,' said Snati, 'and try to master her there, for if she once gets
out we shall have no chance with her. She is the worst witch that ever lived, and no iron can
cut her. One of us must pour boiling porridge out of the pot on her, and the other punch her
with red-hot iron.'

In they went then, and no sooner did the hag see them than she said, 'So you have come, Prince
Ring; you must have seen to my husband and children.'

Snati saw that she was about to attack them, and sprang at her with a red-hot iron from the
fire, while Ring kept pouring boiling porridge on her without stopping, and in this way they
at last got her killed. Then they burned the old troll and her to ashes, and explored the cave,
where they found plenty of gold and treasures. The most valuable of these they carried with
them as far as the cliff, and left them there. Then they hastened home to the King with his
three treasures, where they arrived late on Christmas night, and Ring handed them over to him. 

So then, the work to which the jewelers and goldsmiths used more than six weeks were destroyed
within a few hours. They moved away and then left alone Alaeddin back in the hall. He pulled
out the lamp which he had with him, she rubbed and immediately appeared the mind. "Spirit," said
Alaeddin to him, "I had told you, one of the twenty-four to leave unfinished barred window of
the room, and you've followed this command: now have I can come up that you make it to the other
same shall go. "The spirit disappeared and Alaeddin went out of the room. When he went up for
a while then again, he found the barred window in the desired state, and just like the rest.

Meanwhile came the jewelers and goldsmiths in the palace, were in the audience chamber out
and presented to the Sultan. The first jeweler handed him the precious stones brought them
back, and said on behalf of all to him, "Commander of the earth, you know, how long we were
working with the most strenuous diligence to complete the work, the you gave us. It was already
very far advanced, when Alaeddin constrained us, not only stop work, but all we had to be related
approaches, to destroy, and you and your precious stones of the grand vizier to bring back. "The
Sultan gave orders at once, show him a horse, he mounted and rode to the palace Alaeddin.

The
Sultan said to Alaeddin, "My son, I come to ask you, why you doing
let such a splendid and unique room, as is in your palace, unfinished?
want "

Alaeddin conceal the real reason, namely, that the Sultan is not rich enough in gems would be
to deny such a great effort, and answered him: "Lord, it is true, you have seen the room unfinished,
but I beg you, look again now, if anything it is missing. "

After the Sultan convinced that the lattice window, as long as what Goldsmith had worked, was
completed in such a short time, he hugged and kissed him Alaeddin between the eyes and on his
forehead. "My son," he then said to him in amazement, "What kind of man are you that you are so
amazing works pull off before you turn back a hand? You do not have your kind around the world, and
the more I know you learn, the more I find you admirable. "

Alaeddin took to the praise of the Sultan with great modesty, and answered him as follows: "Lord, it is a
great glory for me, the good will and applause of my King to earn; I also assure you that I will always
summon everything to me more and more of the same and make them more worthy. "

The sultan returned to his palace, where the Grand Vizier was waiting for him. Still in wonder
about the miracle that he had seen with my own eyes, he told the
Sultan everything.

Alaeddin was not immune in his palace, he was in town, as he soon in this, now into that mosque went
to say his prayers, or from time to time the Grand Vizier paid a visit, hastened to pay his
respects to him on certain days to do, or he also proved at times making some of the court,
which he often in his Palace hosted the honor to visit them at home. Every time he rode, he had
a numerous retinue of slaves around, and two of them had on the streets and squares, by which he came
and where ever assembled at a large crowd, throw handfuls of gold. No poor person appeared at
the gate of his palace, without very pleased with the gifts to his
orders were handed out to return.

Since Alaeddin had divided his time so that it at least once each week on the hunt was soon in
the immediate vicinities of the city, sometimes even further away, he was on the streets and in
villages as generous. This magnanimous behavior made that the entire people showered him with
blessings and last no more swearing than in his Head. Yes you can, without challenging the
Sultan in the shade, say that the Alaeddin had acquired by his affability and generosity, the affection
of the whole people and was loved in general more than the Sultan himself with all these fine
qualities He joined a bravery and a zeal for the welfare of the state, worthy of praise is not
enough can. Evidence of which he gave on the occasion of a riot at the borders of the empire.
No sooner had he learned that the Sultan fitted out an army to curb him, he asked him to give
him the Command to pass. As soon as he stood at the head of the army, he took it so fast and
with such zeal into the field, that the sultan's defeat, punishment and distraction of the
Rebels heard more than his arrival with the army. This fact, his name throughout Rich made famous
ruined, but his heart did not, he came back though crowned with victory,
remained but still so mild and affable as ever.

Alaeddin had already lived several years in this way, as the magician in Africa his recall. Although
he had been living in the firm belief, Alaeddin had in the underground vaults are ruined, so he got
it all at once like to find out exactly which end he had taken. As a great master in the art puncturing
he discovered that Alaeddin not only not died in the underground vaults was, but had saved
it and in great splendor and tremendous wealth, married to a princess,
highly honored and taken alive.

Hardly the magician had made by his devilish art this discovery, to have his blood rushed into
his face. Full of anger he said to himself: "That miserable tailor's son So has discovered the
secret and the magic power of the lamp, and I held his death as certain and now he enjoys the fruit
of my work and watching! But rather I want to go, as it can be even longer in his happiness.
"He had taken his decision quickly ascended immediately the next morning a Berber Stallion, which
he had in his stable and was on the Way. So he came from town to town and from country to country
without traveling longer reside needed time to rest when his horse, as far as China and soon
in the capital of the Sultan. He got into a public inn and rented a room. This was he remaining
part of the day and the following night to the complaints from the
Travel recover.

The next morning the magician wanted to know above all what is of Alaeddin speak. By now he was walking
through the city, make it occurred in a very famous and Strong people visited the Tea House. He
had hardly seated, when he was pouring a cup of tea. While he drank, he listened to the right
and left and heard that there was talk of Alaeddin's palace. When he had finished, he approached
one, to take him aside and ask him what's that was for a palace, from which you speak so praise.
"Where are you, friend?" he replied the person addressed. "You have to be only just been here,
if you know the Palace Prince Alaeddin not seen or heard at least not even talk about it have.
"They called namely Alaeddin always so since he married the princess Bedrulbudur had. "I do
not say," the man continued, "that it is one of the wonders of the world, but I say rather
that he is the only miracle in the world. Look at him once themselves, and judge whether I have not related
to you the truth. "-" Forgive my ignorance, " said the magician, "I have arrived here yesterday
and I am in fact so far away, I can tell from the extreme end of Africa. My curiosity is so
great that I she wants to meet immediately, if you had the goodness
to show me the way.

"

Those who had at the magician turned, made a pleasure in him to describe the way to Alaeddin
Palace, and the magician was there. When he arrived and had seen the palace from all sides
carefully, he doubted not the fact that Alaeddin the lamp must have served, for he well knew,
that such wonders could be created only by the spirits of the lamp. Full of anger on the happiness
and the size of Alaeddin, who did not differ from the Sultan, he
returned to the inn, where he was staying.

Now he needed to know just where was the lamp that Alaeddin she wore at home, or somewhere kept,
and to discover this, the magician had to take his art to the aid of punctuation. From his
experiments, he realized that the lamp in Alaeddin Palace was, and was beside himself with
joy at such an important discovery.

"I must get this lamp," said he, "and defiance was offered Alaeddin if he can prevent me to
snatch her to him and him in the humble push back down, from which
he has risen so high.

"

The misfortune was that Alaeddin then went straight to eight days on the hunt and only for three
days was gone, the magician knew that.

He went to the shop of a man who made lamps for sale, and said this:
"Teacher, I would have twelve copper lamps: can you deliver it to
me, "The Lamp Seller answered? he may be missing some, if he wanted
to wait until tomorrow, however, he could talk to him provide a full
dozen.

The magician was happy and told him, they have quite be pretty and shiny, even after he had
promised him a good salary, he went into his inn back.

The next day a dozen lamps the African magician was delivered, which, without , Markets paid the price
demanded for it. He put them in a basket, went with this basket Alaeddin Palace on the arm and
began when he was close to call, "Who wants old Lamps with new ones? "When the little children
playing on the field, hearing this, they came running and gathered around him because they thought
him a fool. The Passers-by laughed at his stupidity. The magician, however, continued its provide
goods and shout loudly: "Who will exchange old lamps for new ones, he repeated this repeatedly
in the square before the palace and in the vicinity of it on and off basis, that Bedrulbudur
the princess, who was just in the hall with the twenty-four windows
The man's voice heard, but since it because of the cry of the children
did not understand what he cried out, they sent down one of their
slaves, to see what the noise meant.

The slave soon returned with loud laughter in the hall. She laughed so heartily that the Princess
also had to laugh at the sight. "Well, you said fool," she at last, "will you do not tell me,
why are you laughing so? "-" Lady, "answered the slave, constantly laughing, "How to be different
when you see a fool, a basket full of beautiful, very new light on
the arm, but not sell them, but will only exchange for old ones.

But the noise that you hear comes forth from the children who mock him. "

According to the report took a different slave the floor and said: "Since the issue of old lamps
is, I do not know if the princess has already noticed that here on the cornice a such as. The
owner will probably not take offense if he, instead of the old new place. If it is agreeable
to the princess, so she can take the fun to test whether this fool
really crazy enough to give a new lamp for an old, with nothing to
demand.

"

The lamp, the slave of the language was just the Wonderful Lamp, Alaeddin to the size of its
had helped, and he himself had before he went hunting, found on the cornice, in order not to lose:
a precautionary measure, which he used every time. But neither the Slaves, nor the eunuchs,
or the Princess herself she ever had during his Absence noted. Except the time when he was hunting,
he took it with you. Man will say now, this caution Alaeddin was quite good, but at least he had his
lamp should include.

This is certainly true, but similar mistakes are committed at any time been, are committed every
day and still be committed in the future.

The Princess Bedrulbudur, who knew the high value of the lamp, and not be thought could see
that it could be for Alaeddin, who never spoke of it at all, of such high importance, to have
them untouched and kept all went on the joke, and ordered a eunuch,
to take them and to exchange.

The eunuch obeyed, went down the stairs, and was hardly out of the gate of the palace, when he
saw the African magician. He called him, and when he came to him, he showed him the old lamp
and said. "Give me a new lamp for it since"

The African magician had no doubt that this is the lamp which he sought. He took the eunuch quickly
out of hand, she pushed into his bosom, and handed him then his basket so he could freely select
one. Without longer around Alaeddin Palace stop, he got quite imperceptibly from the dust.

The
magician took the rest of the day in hiding until a clock at night, where the eclipse was at
its greatest. Now he drew from his bosom the lamp and rubbed it. On this call came the mind at
once. "What do you want?" He asked him, "I am ready to you to obey your slave and a slave of
all who have the lamp in his hand, and I the other slaves of the lamp. "-" I command you, "replied
the magician," that you instantly to the Palace, built in you or the other slaves of the lamp
in the city, as it is, repeal all its living inhabitants and at the same time with me and the
enable the city to Africa. "Without answering something, the spirit managed with the help of
Moreover, the lamp helping hands in a very short time both himself, as the whole Palace to the
designated location in Africa.

We do, however, the African magician and the Palace including the Princess Bedrulbudur in Africa
and only let the surprise of the sultan . Talk

When the Sultan had got up, he went as usual to the open bay to the to give pleasure to look at
Alaeddin Palace and saw to admire, but only one empty space. At first he thought he was mistaken,
and rubbed his eyes, but he saw any more than the first time, although the weather is very bright,
the sky clear and the sunrise had already risen. He looked right and left and still saw nothing.
His astonishment was so great that he stood rooted to the spot long as the same place, his eyes
fixed was stapled to the side where the palace had been before, but
now no longer visible; because it was impossible to comprehend how
such a large and handsome palace at once should be vanished completely
without trace.

At last he called hastily to the grand vizier.

The Grand Vizier was not long in coming. He was in such haste that neither he nor his people in passing
noted that Alaeddin Palace was no longer in his place. Even the porter had not noticed when
they opened the gates of the palace. The Grand Vizier The Sultan spoke thus: "Sir, the haste with which
one has called me, let me conclude that something extraordinary must have happened, for you
know very well that to-day Council meeting is my duty and I had already set in accordance with
a few moments. " - Added "Yes," answered "the Sultan," it is really something very extraordinary
happened and thou shalt confess themselves. Say, where is the Alaeddin Palace? "-" The Palace
Alaeddin? "Replied the grand vizier very surprised," I just went around it, and me own eyes,
he stood at his old place. Such huge buildings like this change their place not so easy. "-"
Look here go out, "said the Sultan," and tell me whether you like
it have seen.

"

The grand vizier went into the open bay, and he went, as the Sultan. "Sir," said the grand vizier,
"you might remember that I had the honor to tell you, the Palace,
with his immense wealth, which you admire so much, could just a work
of magic and be a magician, but you did not then pay attention to me.

"

The sultan, who could not deny it, flew into a rage so much bigger than his former Disbelief in the
day apparently was. "Where he is," he said, these fraudsters, "the scoundrel? I leave off her
head. "-" Sir, "replied the grand vizier," you must let him ask; where his palace is penetrated,
for he alone can know. "-" That would be too many conservation for him, "replied the Sultan;"
go and send thirty on my horse, that she chains lead in front of me. "The grand vizier of the
riders took the command of the Sultan and have advised their leader, how to behave, so that he
will not escape could. Alaeddin went off and met five or six hours from the city on the way
home understood. The chief rode up to him and told him that the Sultan had a great desire, it
to see again, and so he had sent her to report it to him and take
him home accompany.

Alaeddin had not the remotest idea of ​​the true reason why the Department of Bodyguard of the
Sultan had come to him, and rode safely. When he was still a half Hour was removed from the city,
he surrounded the horsemen, and the leader of it took the floor and said to him: "Prince Alaeddin,
with great regret that we have to tell you that we have orders from the Sultan to arrest you,
and lead to a state criminal against him; We ask you to include it
not bad, if we fulfill our duty now, and we to forgive.

"

Alaeddin was very surprised because he was innocent.

He asked the leaders whether he knew what crime he was accused, but he replied that neither he nor his
People knew about it.

Since Alaeddin saw that his people were much weaker than the horsemen, and he even left, he got
off his horse and said, "Here I am vollziehet, your command. Incidentally, I assure you that
I am aware of no crime, not against the person of the Sultan, even against the state. "They shot
him immediately to a very thick and long chain on the neck and it also bound him to the middle
of the body so that his arms had not free.

The leader turned again to the top of the train, but one of the riders took the end of the
chain and resulted in, ride there behind the leader, Alaeddin, who had to follow on foot, away
with them. In this condition he was brought into the city.

As the riders came to the suburbs and therefore lead to a state criminal Alaeddin saw everyone believed
that it would cost him his head. Since he was universally popular, however, so moved have a
sword and other weapons, and those who had not, armed themselves with stones and followed the riders.
Some of the rearmost pivoted and made to look, they auseinanderzusprengen: but the mass of people
was so great that the riders are happy estimated only when they reached the palace of the sultan,
without Alaeddin was snatched from them.

So they finally arrived at the square before the palace, where they all lined up in a line and made
against the armed populace front until their commander and the rider, which Alaeddin led, entered
the palace were closed and the doorkeeper the door behind him had.

Alaeddin was immediately taken to the Sultan, who was waiting for him with the Grand Vizier
on a balcony. As soon as he saw him, he ordered the executioner to cut off his head, though
he listen to him or anyone wanted to have a disruption of him.

The executioner seized Alaeddin, took off his chain, spread immediately leather, that was stained
with the blood of countless criminals on the ground, it was kneel and blindfolded him. He then
drew his sword, swung wide, leaving it three times in the air flashed and made as if to lead
to the death-blow by only a Characters from the Sultan was waiting to knock off Alaeddin's head.

At
this moment, said the grand vizier, that the people had overwhelmed
the riders and insisted on the Palace Square, was, indeed, that some
of the walls of the palace at several Make scaled with ladders and
already started to demolish it to make a hole to .

Make So he said to the sultan, before he gave the signal, "Lord, I pray thee, that thou the Step you're
about to do to consider maturely may see. You risk your Palace stormed to see, and when this
disaster happen, it could bring disastrous consequences have. "-

When he saw the Sultan the violent excitement among the people, he was frightened so much that he
instantly the executioner gave the command to put his sword back in its sheath, the binding
Alaeddin take away from eyes and let him go.

At the same time he ordered his satellites to proclaim, Alaeddin that he give grace, and everyone
should move away now.

Now when the people saw that the Sultan had happened to Alaeddin justice and pardoned him, is
disarmed his anger, the rebellion ceased, and it all went one by
one home.

Alaeddin once again looked in freedom, he looked up at the balcony, and when he Sultan remarked, he
called to him in a touching tone: "Sir, I beg you, to me the already
proven yet to give a new grace and let me know what my crime is -
"What is it, you scoundrel," replied the Sultan; ". you know it yet?

Come again up here, and I will show it. "

Alaeddin went up and stood before the Sultan. He took him to the open bay.

Alaeddin looked out and saw the whole place that had occupied his palace else because he could
not understand how he can disappear, so it made this strange and surprising event upset so that
he could say a single word to the Sultan.

The Sultan repeated impatiently asked, "Tell me where the palace and my daughter ? Is "finally
broke the silence Alaeddin and said," Lord, I can see that the palace, the build I had, has disappeared,
you can not say where he might be. Only so much I can assure you that I have no part in this
event. "

"I do not care what happened to your palace," replied the Sultan.
"My My daughter is a million times better. You must return it to me,
or I leave you the head . Refuse "

"Sir," replied Alaeddin, 'I beseech
you, that you may give me forty-day period to my to take measures,
and manages to me during this time, I'll give you my word that will
resign myself to my head to the feet of your throne, that you may
freely . Dispose of it - "I'll grant that period of forty days," replied
the Sultan; "But do not think that you can abuse my grace and escape
my wrath. In the angle of the earth be like you, I'll know where to
find. "

Alaeddin went with bowed head of the courtyards of the palace
and was so ashamed that he did not dare to turn over his eyes. Was the sleep he had
last night not enough for him? Tell him that he will never see me here again; and here is a
sword that you will give him in my name, and my blessing along with it.'

With this she went off, and as soon as she had gone the lad took the pin out of his master's
coat. He awoke instantly, and the first word he said was, 'Have you seen her?' The lad said
that he had, and there was the sword she had left for him. The Irishman was ready to kill the
lad out of sheer vexation, but when he gave a glance over his shoulder not a trace of the fair-haired
lad was left.

Being thus left all alone, he thought of going into the room where all the men were lying asleep,
and there among the rest he found his two comrades who had deserted along with him. Then he
remembered what the Princess had told him--that he had only to touch them with the rod she
had given him and they would all awake; and the first he touched were his own comrades. They
started to their feet at once, and he gave them as much silver and gold as they could carry
when they went away. There was plenty to do before he got all the others wakened, for the two
doors of the castle were crowded with them all the day long.

The loss of the Princess, however, kept rankling in his mind day and night, till finally he
thought he would go about the world to see if he could find anyone to give him news of her.
So he took the best horse in the stable and set out. Three years he spent travelling through
forests and wildernesses, but could find no one able to tell him anything of the Princess.
At last he fell into so great despair that he thought he would put an end to his own life,
and for this purpose laid hold of the sword that she had given him by the hands of the fair-haired
lad; but on drawing it from its sheath he noticed that there was some writing on one side of
the blade. He looked at this, and read there, 'You will find me in the Blue Mountains.' This
made him take heart again, and he gave up the idea of killing himself, thinking that he would
go on in hope of meeting some one who could tell him where the Blue Mountains were. After he
had gone a long way without thinking where he was going, he saw at last a light far away, and
made straight for it. On reaching it he found it came from a little house, and as soon as the
man inside heard the noise of the horse's feet he came out to see who was there. Seeing a stranger
on horseback, he asked what brought him there and where he was going.

'I have lived here,' said he, 'for three hundred years, and all that time I have not seen a
single human being but yourself.'

'I have been going about for the last three years,' said the Irishman, 'to see if I could find
anyone who can tell me where the Blue Mountains are.'

'Come in,' said the old man, 'and stay with me all night. I have a book which contains the
history of the world, which I shall go through to-night, and if there is such a place as the
Blue Mountains in it we shall find it out.'

The Irishman stayed there all night, and as soon as morning came rose to go. The old man said
he had not gone to sleep all night for going through the book, but there was not a word about
the Blue Mountains in it. 'But I'll tell you what,' he said, 'if there is such a place on earth
at all, I have a brother who lives nine hundred miles from here, and he is sure to know where
they are, if anyone in this world does.' The Irishman answered that he could never go these
nine hundred miles, for his horse was giving in already. 'That doesn't matter,' said the old
man; 'I can do better than that. I have only to blow my whistle and you will be at my brother's
house before nightfall.'

So he blew the whistle, and the Irishman did not know where on earth he was until he found
himself at the other old man's door, who also told him that it was three hundred years since
he had seen anyone, and asked him where he was going.

'I am going to see if I can find anyone that can tell me where the Blue Mountains are,' he said.

'If you will stay with me to-night,' said the old man, 'I have a book of the history of the
world, and I shall know where they are before daylight, if there is such a place in it at all.'

He stayed there all night, but there was not a word in the book about the Blue Mountains. Seeing
that he was rather cast down, the old man told him that he had a brother nine hundred miles
away, and that if information could be got about them from anyone it would be from him; 'and
I will enable you,' he said, 'to reach the place where he lives before night.' So he blew his
whistle, and the Irishman landed at the brother's house before nightfall. When the old man
saw him he said he had not seen a single man for three hundred years, and was very much surprised
to see anyone come to him now.

'Where are you going to?' he said.

'I am going about asking for the Blue Mountains,' said the Irishman.

'The Blue Mountains?' said the old man.

'Yes,' said the Irishman.

'I never heard the name before; but if they do exist I shall find them out. I am master of
all the birds in the world, and have only to blow my whistle and every one will come to me.
I shall then ask each of them to tell where it came from, and if there is any way of finding
out the Blue Mountains that is it.'

So he blew his whistle, and when he blew it then all the birds of the world began to gather.
The old man questioned each of them as to where they had come from, but there was not one of
them that had come from the Blue Mountains. After he had run over them all, however, he missed
a big Eagle that was wanting, and wondered that it had not come. Soon afterwards he saw something
big coming towards him, darkening the sky. It kept coming nearer and growing bigger, and what
was this after all but the Eagle? When she arrived the old man scolded her, and asked what
had kept her so long behind.

'I couldn't help it,' she said; 'I had more than twenty times further to come than any bird
that has come here to-day.'

'Where have you come from, then?' said the old man.

'From the Blue Mountains,' said she.

'Indeed!' said the old man; and what are they doing there?'

'They are making ready this very day,' said the Eagle, 'for the marriage of the daughter of
the King of the Blue Mountains. For three years now she has refused to marry anyone whatsoever,
until she should give up all hope of the coming of the man who released her from the spell.
Now she can wait no longer, for three years is the time that she agreed with her father to
remain without marrying.'

The Irishman knew that it was for himself she had been waiting so long, but he was unable to
make any better of it, for he had no hope of reaching the Blue Mountains all his life. The
old man noticed how sad he grew, and asked the Eagle what she would take for carrying this
man on her back to the Blue Mountains.

'I must have threescore cattle killed,' said she, 'and cut up into quarters, and every time
I look over my shoulder he must throw one of them into my mouth.'

As soon as the Irishman and the old man heard her demand they went out hunting, and before
evening they had killed three-score cattle. They made quarters of them, as the Eagle told them,
and then the old man asked her to lie down, till they would get it all heaped up on her back.
First of all, though, they had to get a ladder of fourteen steps, to enable them to get on
to the Eagle's back, and there they piled up the meat as well as they could. Then the old man
told the Irishman to mount, and to remember to throw a quarter of beef to her every time she
looked round. He went up, and the old man gave the Eagle the word to be off, which she instantly
obeyed; and every time she turned her head the Irishman threw a quarter of beef into her mouth.

As they came near the borders of the kingdom of the Blue Mountains, however, the beef was done,
and, when the Eagle looked over her shoulder, what was the Irishman at but throwing the stone
between her tail and her neck! At this she turned a complete somersault, and threw the Irishman
off into the sea, where he fell into the bay that was right in front of the King's Palace.
Fortunately the points of his toes just touched the bottom, and he managed to get ashore.

When he went up into the town all the streets were gleaming with light, and the wedding of
the Princess was just about to begin. He went into the first house he came to, and this happened
to be the house of the King's hen-wife. He asked the old woman what was causing all the noise
and light in the town.

'The Princess,' said she, 'is going to be married to-night against her will, for she has been
expecting every day that the man who freed her from the spell would come.'

'There is a guinea for you,' said he; 'go and bring her here.'

The old woman went, and soon returned along with the Princess. She and the Irishman recognised
each other, and were married, and had a great wedding that lasted for a year and a day.

An old Witch met him on the road. You are something like a soldier! You ought to have as much
money as you would like to carry!'

'Thank you, old Witch,' said the Soldier.

'Do you see that great tree there?' said the Witch, pointing to a tree beside them. 'It is
hollow within. You must climb up to the top, and then you will see a hole through which you
can let yourself down into the tree. I will tie a rope round your waist, so that I may be able
to pull you up again when you call.'

'What shall I do down there?' asked the Soldier.

'Get money!' answered the Witch. 'Listen! If you go into the first room, you will see a great
chest in the middle of the floor with a dog sitting upon it; he has eyes as large as saucers,
but you needn't trouble about him. I will give you my blue-check apron, which you must spread
out on the floor, and then go back quickly and fetch the dog and set him upon it; open the
chest and take as much money as you like. It is copper there. If you would rather have silver,
you must go into the next room, where there is a dog with eyes as large as mill-wheels. But
don't take any notice of him; just set him upon my apron, and help yourself to the money. If
you prefer gold, you can get that too, if you go into the third room, and as much as you like
to carry. But the dog that guards the chest there has eyes as large as the Round Tower at Copenhagen!
He is a savage dog, I can tell you; but you needn't be afraid of him either. Only, put him
on my apron and he won't touch you, and you can take out of the chest as much gold as you like!'

'Come, this is not bad!' said the Soldier. 'But what am I to give you, old Witch; for surely
you are not going to do this for nothing?'

'Yes, I am!' replied the Witch. 'Not a single farthing will I take! For me you shall bring
nothing but an old tinder-box which my grandmother forgot last time she was down there.'

'Well, tie the rope round my waist! 'said the Soldier.

'You are a fine fellow!' said the Soldier, and put him on the Witch's apron, took as much copper
as his pockets could hold; then he shut the chest, put the dog on it again, and went into the
second room. Sure enough there sat the dog with eyes as large as mill-wheels.

'You had better not look at me so hard!' said the Soldier. 'Your eyes will come out of their
sockets!'

And then he set the dog on the apron. When he saw all the silver in the chest, he threw away
the copper he had taken, and filled his pockets and knapsack with nothing but silver.

Then he went into the third room. Horrors! the dog there had two eyes, each as large as the
Round Tower at Copenhagen, spinning round in his head like wheels.

'Good evening!' said the Soldier and saluted, for he had never seen a dog like this before.
But when he had examined him more closely, he thought to himself: 'Now then, I've had enough
of this!' and put him down on the floor, and opened the chest. Heavens! what a heap of gold
there was! With all that he could buy up the whole town, and all the sugar pigs, all the tin
soldiers, whips and rocking-horses in the whole world. Now he threw away all the silver with
which he had filled his pockets and knapsack, and filled them with gold instead--yes, all his
pockets, his knapsack, cap and boots even, so that he could hardly walk. Now he was rich indeed.

'Botheration!' said the Soldier, 'I had clean forgotten it!' And then he went back and fetched it.

The Witch pulled him up, and there he stood again on the high road, with pockets, knapsack,
cap and boots filled with gold.

'What do you want to do with the tinder-box?' asked the Soldier.

'That doesn't matter to you,' replied the Witch. 'You have got your money, give me my tinder-box.'

'We'll see!' said the Soldier. 'Tell me at once what you want to do with it, or I will draw
my sword, and cut off your head!'

'No!' screamed the Witch.

The Soldier immediately cut off her head. That was the end of her! But he tied up all his gold
in her apron, slung it like a bundle over his shoulder, put the tinder-box in his pocket, and
set out towards the town.

It was a splendid town! He turned into the finest inn, ordered the best chamber and his favourite
dinner; for now that he had so much money he was really rich.

It certainly occurred to the servant who had to clean his boots that they were astonishingly
old boots for such a rich lord. But that was because he had not yet bought new ones; next day
he appeared in respectable boots and fine clothes. Now, instead of a common soldier he had
become a noble lord, and the people told him about all the grand doings of the town and the
King, and what a beautiful Princess his daughter was.

'How can one get to see her?' asked the Soldier.

'She is never to be seen at all!' they told him; 'she lives in a great copper castle, surrounded
by many walls and towers! No one except the King may go in or out, for it is prophesied that
she will marry a common soldier, and the King cannot submit to that.'

'I should very much like to see her,' thought the Soldier; but he could not get permission.

Now he lived very gaily, went to the theatre, drove in the King's garden, and gave the poor
a great deal of money, which was very nice of him; he had experienced in former times how hard
it is not to have a farthing in the world. Now he was rich, wore fine clothes, and made many
friends, who all said that he was an excellent man, a real nobleman. And the Soldier liked
that. But as he was always spending money, and never made any more, at last the day came when
he had nothing left but two shillings, and he had to leave the beautiful rooms in which he
had been living, and go into a little attic under the roof, and clean his own boots, and mend
them with a darning-needle. None of his friends came to visit him there, for there were too
many stairs to climb.

It was a dark evening, and he could not even buy a light. But all at once it flashed across
him that there was a little end of tinder in the tinder-box, which he had taken from the hollow
tree into which the Witch had helped him down. He found the box with the tinder in it; but
just as he was kindling a light, and had struck a spark out of the tinder-box, the door burst
open, and the dog with eyes as large as saucers, which he had seen down in the tree, stood
before him and said:

'What does my lord command?'

'What's the meaning of this?' exclaimed the Soldier. 'This is a pretty kind of tinder-box,
if I can get whatever I want like this. Get me money!' he cried to the dog, and hey, presto!
he was off and back again, holding a great purse full of money in his mouth.

Now the Soldier knew what a capital tinder-box this was. If he rubbed once, the dog that sat
on the chest of copper appeared; if he rubbed twice, there came the dog that watched over the
silver chest; and if he rubbed three times, the one that guarded the gold appeared. Now, the
Soldier went down again to his beautiful rooms, and appeared once more in splendid clothes.
All his friends immediately recognised him again, and paid him great court.

One day he thought to himself: 'It is very strange that no one can get to see the Princess.
They all say she is very pretty, but what's the use of that if she has to sit for ever in the
great copper castle with all the towers? Can I not manage to see her somehow? Where is my tinder-box?'
and so he struck a spark, and, presto! there came the dog with eyes as large as saucers.

'It is the middle of the night, I know,' said the Soldier; 'but I should very much like to
see the Princess for a moment.'

The dog was already outside the door, and before the Soldier could look round, in he came with
the Princess. She was lying asleep on the dog's back, and was so beautiful that anyone could
see she was a real Princess.

'That is certainly a fine story,' said the Queen. But the next night one of the ladies-in-waiting
was to watch at the Princess's bed, to see if it was only a dream, or if it had actually happened.

The Soldier had an overpowering longing to see the Princess again, and so the dog came in the
middle of the night and fetched her, running as fast as he could. But the lady-in-waiting slipped
on india-rubber shoes and followed them. When she saw them disappear into a large house, she
thought to herself: 'Now I know where it is; 'and made a great cross on the door with a piece
of chalk.

Early next morning the King, Queen, ladies-in-waiting, and officers came out to see where the
Princess had been.

'There it is!' said the King, when he saw the first door with a cross on it.

'No, there it is, my dear!' said the Queen, when she likewise saw a door with a cross.

'But here is one, and there is another!' they all exclaimed; wherever they looked there was
a cross on the door. Then they realised that the sign would not help them at all.

But the Queen was an extremely clever woman, who could do a great deal more than just drive
in a coach. She took her great golden scissors, cut up a piece of silk, and made a pretty little
bag of it. This she filled with the finest buckwheat grains, and tied it round the Princess'
neck; this done, she cut a little hole in the bag, so that the grains would strew the whole
road wherever the Princess went.

In the night the dog came again, took the Princess on his back and ran away with her to the
Soldier, who was very much in love with her, and would have liked to have been a Prince, so
that he might have had her for his wife.

The dog did not notice how the grains were strewn right from the castle to the Soldier's window,
where he ran up the wall with the Princess.

In the morning the King and the Queen saw plainly where their daughter had been, and they took
the Soldier and put him into prison.

There he sat. Oh, how dark and dull it was there! And they told him: 'To-morrow you are to
be hanged.' Hearing that did not exactly cheer him, and he had left his tinder-box in the inn.

Next morning he could see through the iron grating in front of his little window how the people
were hurrying out of the town to see him hanged. He heard the drums and saw the soldiers marching;
all the people were running to and fro. Just below his window was a shoemaker's apprentice,
with leather apron and shoes; he was skipping along so merrily that one of his shoes flew off
and fell against the wall, just where the Soldier was sitting peeping through the iron grating.

'Oh, shoemaker's boy, you needn't be in such a hurry!' said the Soldier to him. 'There's nothing
going on till I arrive. But if you will run back to the house where I lived, and fetch me my
tinder-box, I will give you four shillings. But you must put your best foot foremost.'

The shoemaker's boy was very willing to earn four shillings, and fetched the tinder-box, gave
it to the Soldier, and--yes--now you shall hear.

Outside the town a great scaffold had been erected, and all round were standing the soldiers,
and hundreds of thousands of people. The King and Queen were sitting on a magnificent throne
opposite the judges and the whole council.

The Soldier was already standing on the top of the ladder; but when they wanted to put the
rope round his neck, he said that the fulfilment of one innocent request was always granted
to a poor criminal before he underwent his punishment. He would so much like to smoke a small
pipe of tobacco; it would be his last pipe in this world.

The King could not refuse him this, and so he took out his tinder-box, and rubbed it once,
twice, three times. And lo, and behold I there stood all three dogs--the one with eyes as large
as saucers, the second with eyes as large as mill-wheels, and the third with eyes each as large
as the Round Tower of Copenhagen.

'Help me now, so that I may not be hanged!' cried the Soldier. And thereupon the dogs fell
upon the judges and the whole council, seized some by the legs, others by the nose, and threw
them so high into the air that they fell and were smashed into pieces.

'I won't stand this!' said the King; but the largest dog seized him too, and the Queen as well,
and threw them up after the others.

The Princess came out of the copper castle, and became Queen; and that pleased her very much.

The wedding festivities lasted for eight days, and the dogs sat at table and made eyes at everyone.

THE WITCH IN THE STONE BOAT(31)

(31) From the Icelandic.

THUMBELINA

There was once a woman who wanted to have quite a tiny, little child, but she did not know
where to get one from. So one day she went to an old Witch and said to her: 'I should so much
like to have a tiny, little child; can you tell me where I can get one?'

'Oh, we have just got one ready!' said the Witch. 'Here is a barley-corn for you, but it's
not the kind the farmer sows in his field, or feeds the cocks and hens with, I can tell you.
Put it in a flower-pot, and then you will see something happen.'

'Oh, thank you!' said the woman, and gave the Witch a shilling, for that was what it cost.
Then she went home and planted the barley-corn; immediately there grew out of it a large and
beautiful flower, which looked like a tulip, but the petals were tightly closed as if it were
still only a bud.

'What a beautiful flower!' exclaimed the woman, and she kissed the red and yellow petals; but
as she kissed them the flower burst open. It was a real tulip, such as one can see any day;
but in the middle of the blossom, on the green velvety petals, sat a little girl, quite tiny,
trim, and pretty. She was scarcely half a thumb in height; so they called her Thumbelina. An
elegant polished walnut-shell served Thumbelina as a cradle, the blue petals of a violet were
her mattress, and a rose-leaf her coverlid. There she lay at night, but in the day-time she
used to play about on the table; here the woman had put a bowl, surrounded by a ring of flowers,
with their stalks in water, in the middle of which floated a great tulip pedal, and on this
Thumbelina sat, and sailed from one side of the bowl to the other, rowing herself with two
white horse-hairs for oars. It was such a pretty sight! She could sing, too, with a voice more
soft and sweet than had ever been heard before.

One night, when she was lying in her pretty little bed, an old toad crept in through a broken
pane in the window. She was very ugly, clumsy, and clammy; she hopped on to the table where
Thumbelina lay asleep under the red rose-leaf.

'This would make a beautiful wife for my son,' said the toad, taking up the walnut-shell, with
Thumbelina inside, and hopping with it through the window into the garden.

There flowed a great wide stream, with slippery and marshy banks; here the toad lived with
her son. Ugh! how ugly and clammy he was, just like his mother! 'Croak, croak, croak!' was
all he could say when he saw the pretty little girl in the walnut-shell.

'Don't talk so load, or you'll wake her,' said the old toad. 'She might escape us even now;
she is as light as a feather. We will put her at once on a broad water-lily leaf in the stream.
That will be quite an island for her; she is so small and light. She can't run away from us
there, whilst we are preparing the guest-chamber under the marsh where she shall live.'

Outside in the brook grew many water-lilies, with broad green leaves, which looked as if they
were swimming about on the water.

The leaf farthest away was the largest, and to this the old toad swam with Thumbelina in her
walnut-shell.

The tiny Thumbelina woke up very early in the morning, and when she saw where she was she began
to cry bitterly; for on every side of the great green leaf was water, and she could not get
to the land.

The old toad was down under the marsh, decorating her room with rushes and yellow marigold
leaves, to make it very grand for her new daughter-in-law; then she swam out with her ugly
son to the leaf where Thumbelina lay. She wanted to fetch the pretty cradle to put it into
her room before Thumbelina herself came there. The old toad bowed low in the water before her,
and said: 'Here is my son; you shall marry him, and live in great magnificence down under the
marsh.'

'Croak, croak, croak!' was all that the son could say. Then they took the neat little cradle
and swam away with it; but Thumbelina sat alone on the great green leaf and wept, for she did
not want to live with the clammy toad, or marry her ugly son. The little fishes swimming about
under the water had seen the toad quite plainly, and heard what she had said; so they put up
their heads to see the little girl. When they saw her, they thought her so pretty that they
were very sorry she should go down with the ugly toad to live. No; that must not happen. They
assembled in the water round the green stalk which supported the leaf on which she was sitting,
and nibbled the stem in two. Away floated the leaf down the stream, bearing Thumbelina far
beyond the reach of the toad.

On she sailed past several towns, and the little birds sitting in the bushes saw her, and sang,
'What a pretty little girl!' The leaf floated farther and farther away; thus Thumbelina left
her native land.

A beautiful little white butterfly fluttered above her, and at last settled on the leaf. Thumbelina
pleased him, and she, too, was delighted, for now the toads could not reach her, and it was
so beautiful where she was travelling; the sun shone on the water and made it sparkle like
the brightest silver. She took off her sash, and tied one end round the butterfly; the other
end she fastened to the leaf, so that now it glided along with her faster than ever.

A great cockchafer came flying past; he caught sight of Thumbelina, and in a moment had put
his arms round her slender waist, and had flown off with her to a tree. The green leaf floated
away down the stream, and the butterfly with it, for he was fastened to the leaf and could
not get loose from it. Oh, dear! how terrified poor little Thumbelina was when the cockchafer
flew off with her to the tree! But she was especially distressed on the beautiful white butterfly's
account, as she had tied him fast, so that if he could not get away he must starve to death.
Later on, all the other cockchafers who lived in the same tree came to pay calls; they examined
Thumbelina closely, and remarked, 'Why, she has only two legs! How very miserable!'

'She has no feelers!' cried another.

'How ugly she is!' said all the lady chafers--and yet Thumbelina was really very pretty.

The cockchafer who had stolen her knew this very well; but when he heard all the ladies saying
she was ugly, he began to think so too, and would not keep her; she might go wherever she liked.
So he flew down from the tree with her and put her on a daisy. There she sat and wept, because
she was so ugly that the cockchafer would have nothing to do with her; and yet she was the
most beautiful creature imaginable, so soft and delicate, like the loveliest rose-leaf.

The whole summer poor little Thumbelina lived alone in the great wood. She plaited a bed for
herself of blades of grass, and hung it up under a clover-leaf, so that she was protected from
the rain; she gathered honey from the flowers for food, and drank the dew on the leaves every
morning. She was terribly cold, for her clothes were ragged, and she herself was so small and
thin. Poor little Thumbelina! she would surely be frozen to death. It began to snow, and every
snow-flake that fell on her was to her as a whole shovelful thrown on one of us, for we are
so big, and she was only an inch high. She wrapt herself round in a dead leaf, but it was torn
in the middle and gave her no warmth; she was trembling with cold.

Just outside the wood where she was now living lay a great corn-field. But the corn had been
gone a long time; only the dry, bare stubble was left standing in the frozen ground. This made
a forest for her to wander about in. All at once she came across the door of a field-mouse,
who had a little hole under a corn-stalk. There the mouse lived warm and snug, with a store-room
full of corn, a splendid kitchen and dining-room. Poor little Thumbelina went up to the door
and begged for a little piece of barley, for she had not had anything to eat for the last two days.

'Poor little creature!' said the field-mouse, for she was a kind-hearted old thing at the bottom.
'Come into my warm room and have some dinner with me.'

As Thumbelina pleased her, she said: 'As far as I am concerned you may spend the winter with
me; but you must keep my room clean and tidy, and tell me stories, for I like that very much.'

And Thumbelina did all that the kind old field-mouse asked, and did it remarkably well too.

'Now I am expecting a visitor,' said the field-mouse; 'my neighbour comes to call on me once
a week. He is in better circumstances than I am, has great, big rooms, and wears a fine black-velvet
coat. If you could only marry him, you would be well provided for. But he is blind. You must
tell him all the prettiest stories you know.'

But Thumbelina did not trouble her head about him, for he was only a mole. He came and paid
them a visit in his black-velvet coat.

'He is so rich and so accomplished,' the field-mouse told her.

'His house is twenty times larger than mine; he possesses great knowledge, but he cannot bear
the sun and the beautiful flowers, and speaks slightingly of them, for he has never seen them.'

Thumbelina had to sing to him, so she sang 'Lady-bird, lady-bird, fly away home!' and other
songs so prettily that the mole fell in love with her; but he did not say anything, he was
a very cautious man. A short time before he had dug a long passage through the ground from
his own house to that of his neighbour; in this he gave the field-mouse and Thumbelina permission
to walk as often as they liked. But he begged them not to be afraid of the dead bird that lay
in the passage: it was a real bird with beak and feathers, and must have died a little time
ago, and now laid buried just where he had made his tunnel. The mole took a piece of rotten
wood in his mouth, for that glows like fire in the dark, and went in front, lighting them through
the long dark passage. When they came to the place where the dead bird lay, the mole put his
broad nose against the ceiling and pushed a hole through, so that the daylight could shine
down. Thumbelina was very sorry, for she was very fond of all little birds; they had sung and
twittered so beautifully to her all through the summer. But the mole kicked him with his bandy
legs and said:

'Now he can't sing any more! It must be very miserable to be a little bird! I'm thankful that
none of my little children are; birds always starve in winter.'

'Yes, you speak like a sensible man,' said the field-mouse. 'What has a bird, in spite of all
his singing, in the winter-time? He must starve and freeze, and that must be very pleasant
for him, I must say!'

Thumbelina did not say anything; but when the other two had passed on she bent down to the
bird, brushed aside the feathers from his head, and kissed his closed eyes gently. 'Perhaps
it was he that sang to me so prettily in the summer,' she thought. 'How much pleasure he did
give me, dear little bird!'

The mole closed up the hole again which let in the light, and then escorted the ladies home.
But Thumbelina could not sleep that night; so she got out of bed, and plaited a great big blanket
of straw, and carried it off, and spread it over the dead bird, and piled upon it thistle-down
as soft as cotton-wool, which she had found in the field-mouse's room, so that the poor little
thing should lie warmly buried.

'Farewell, pretty little bird!' she said. 'Farewell, and thank you for your beautiful songs
in the summer, when the trees were green, and the sun shone down warmly on us!' Then she laid
her head against the bird's heart. But the bird was not dead: he had been frozen, but now that
she had warmed him, he was coming to life again.

In autumn the swallows fly away to foreign lands; but there are some who are late in starting,
and then they get so cold that they drop down as if dead, and the snow comes and covers them over.

Thumbelina trembled, she was so frightened; for the bird was very large in comparison with
herself--only an inch high. But she took courage, piled up the down more closely over the poor
swallow, fetched her own coverlid and laid it over his head.

Next night she crept out again to him. There he was alive, but very weak; he could only open
his eyes for a moment and look at Thumbelina, who was standing in front of him with a piece
of rotten wood in her hand, for she had no other lantern.

'Thank you, pretty little child!' said the swallow to her. 'I am so beautifully warm! Soon
I shall regain my strength, and then I shall be able to fly out again into the warm sunshine.'

'Oh!' she said, 'it is very cold outside; it is snowing and freezing! stay in your warm bed;
I will take care of you!'

Then she brought him water in a petal, which he drank, after which he related to her how he
had torn one of his wings on a bramble, so that he could not fly as fast as the other swallows,
who had flown far away to warmer lands. So at last he had dropped down exhausted, and then
he could remember no more. The whole winter he remained down there, and Thumbelina looked after
him and nursed him tenderly. Heard talk now a third up, he would perform for you greatly and praise your
decision as the noblest, seduced by your word and praise your major Speeches. But I blame only you, for
behold, I know you better. You hide your heart and have very different thoughts. So I freely
say what up to this resolution passes?

Seriously, his son said, "You do err, not mother one day is not like the young man.. ripen into
manhood; Better in his heart he matures into action often than in the wild noises, fluctuating
Life that has ruined many a youth. And so quiet I am and was, then in the But my breast formed
a heart that hates injustice and inequity, and I understand well the worldly things but, also the work
of the arm and feet has gestaerket powerful. All that I feel is true, I may say boldly. And
yet you blame me Law, mother, and I've Caught in the half-true words and half adjustment.
For, confess I just do not call me a slithering menace from the home of the father and not
the high idea of ​​my country to be a helping and terrible enemies. Words were if only I said,
they should hide from you but my feelings that my heart tear. So let me, mother! Because I wasted
Hege wishes in my heart, so like my life then go in vain. Because I know it very well: the individual
harms himself, the surrenders, if not all to the whole endeavor. "

"Go only continued," so it said the sensible mother, "to tell me everything, the biggest as the least!
Because the men are violent and always think only the last, and the obstacle drives the intense light
of the way, but a woman is sent to think of means and also converts the detour sent to achieve
its purpose. Tell me everything so why you're moving so hard, as I never saw you, and the blood
boils you in your veins, Disgust and tears to the eye, penetrates entstuerzen. "

Since leaving the pain of the good young man and cried and cried aloud at the breast of Mother
said, and so erweichet: "Verily the father's word has now taken me offensive! I never earned, not
today and not of days. For was to honor the parents' early my dearest, and no one seemed to be
smarter and wiser than me, and produced Ernst offered me in darker times of childhood. I have
much to be true of my playmates tolerated, if they Tuecke with me often repaid the good will, I often
have in them do not throw more tricks smelled: But they mocked me from the father if he Sundays
from worthy of the church came with deliberate steps, she laughs about the band of the cap, the
Flowers of the dressing gown he wore as stately and was given away just today, Fear clenched
right fist me with grim fury I fell and hit her and hit with blind begin to see no place to go. They
howled with bloody noses and torn from the hardly the furious kicks and punches. And so I
grew up, to much to endure from his father, The other place took me quite often around with words,
if the Council at his disappointment in the last Session was excited, and I lost the argument and
the intrigues of his colleagues. Often have Your regrets myself, because I endured a lot, always
in my thoughts of the parents of the heart to honorable kindness that makes sense only for us
to increase the Have and the goods, and themselves entziehn much to save the children. But,
alas! not only save for later to enjoy the power of luck, it's not the luck of the crowd at
the pile's not the Ground by the field, so beautiful, the cargoes close too. Because the father
is old, and with the children of his age, without the joy of the tags, and with the concern
for tomorrow. Tell me down, and behold, how glorious are the beautiful, rich Plain of not there,
and down the vineyard and gardens, where the barns and stables, the beautiful range of cargoes!
But then I see there behind the house where the gable of the window shows us from my little room in
the roof, When I think back the times, as many a night I expected the moon already there and
already so some mornings the sun, When the sound was enough for me just a few hours sleep: Ah!
as does seem so lonely, like the Chamber, yard and garden, the glorious field that streches
to the hills, everything is so desolate before me: I miss the wife. "

Because after that, the good mother answered, saying, "Son, everything
you do not, the bride to lead into the chamber, that you will the
night for better half of life and the Work the day you will own free
and, when the father and the mother wants it.

We have you ever tried to persuade, even drove you to choose a girl. But to me it is known
And now it says my heart: When the hour is not that right, if not the right Girl at the hour
shows, so choosing is far off, and it worketh the fear to grab the wrong, mostly. Shall I tell
you, my son did, so you think I think chosen you, because your heart is taken and more sensitive
than usual. Say it straight out only because I have it says the soul: That girl is it that sold,
you have chosen. "

"Dear mother, your's says!" replied the son on it vividly. "Yes, she's it! And fuehr I do not
as a bride my house today still draws her away, may disappear me forever In the confusion of
war and the sad back-and-Herziehn.

Mother, forever nothing to me the rich are flourishing Then in mind, in vain are my fertile
future years. Yes, the familiar house and garden is repugnant to me, Oh! and the love of the
mother, herself no consolation to the poor. Because it loosens the love I feel, any band, if
they theirs ties, and not the girl alone, father and mother leaves behind when they erwaehleten follows
the man, too, the young man, he knows nothing of the mother and father, When he sees the girl,
the only draw them beloved. So let me go where the Desperation drives me. For my father, he
said the crucial words, and his house is no longer my own, if it excludes the girl that I alone
to House desire to lead. "

As nimbly replied the good, sensible mother, "but two men standing like rocks against each other!
Unmoved and proud, no one wants the other approach, none to the good words, the first, tongue
movements.

Therefore I tell you, son, is still alive the hope in my heart that them to you if she is well and good,
become engaged, though poor, he also held her arms has failed. For he speaks of many things
in his violent way, he accomplishes the not yet; it is also that failed. But a good word he
wants and can demand it, because he is the father! We also know, his anger is after dinner, where
he speaks more violent and other reasons doubted, never much, and it stirs the wine then any power
on his strong will and he can not hear the words of others, he hears and feels alone himself.
But it comes close the evening, and the many calls are now between him and changed his friends.
Milder he is for real, I know, if by the Raeuschchen And he feels is the wrong that he created
another lively. Come! We dare the same; the freshness, and are stepping only, and we need the friends
who gathered jetzo still with him Seats, especially will help the worthy priest. "

So she spoke and moved nimbly from stones, lifting, too, from the seat of the son, the willing
following. Both came down in silence, thinking through the important intent.

Polyhymnia, the world citizens

But there sat the three of them still speaking, with the spiritual
master of the pharmacist the hosts, and it was the talk is still just
the same, the much back and forth for all Pages was led.

But the excellent pastor replied, worthy disposed towards it, "a conflict I do not want you. I
know it, one should always strive for the better, and how we see, he always strives for higher
things, the least he tries something new. But is not too far! Was this because in addition to the nature
of our feelings, the desire to remain in And to old friends of what each one is long lived.
Every condition is good, of course and reasonable. Much desired by the man, yet he needs only
slightly because the Days are short, and restricted the mortal fate. Never TADL I the man who
accessible, active and restless, the other shoots, the sea and all the streets of the earth, busily
Kuehn travel on the profit and rejoice, which is abundant around him and to his family accumulates,
but that is also worth to me, the quiet citizens, his paternal heritage with silent Umgehet
steps and takes care of the earth, as it enjoin the hours. Not be changed him in each year
of the soil, non-stretched piece of the tree, the newly planted, arms counter the sky, adorned
with abundant blooms. Because only a few seeds he trusts the nourishing Earth, he understands
only a few animals, mehrend to consider, for the Useful remains to be alone whole idea. Happy
is he who gave nature such a mind tuned! He honors us all erna. And hail to the citizens of this
small town, which combines business with Rurally Buergergewerb! On it is not the pressure, the anxious
policy restrictions to the country man, do not confuse Him the concern of the much sought-dwellers
into the Reich and the ever higher, less wealthy, Are used to imitate, especially the women and
girls. Bless them always to the Son quiet endeavor and the wife, who once he, like-minded to Choose
ye. "

So, he said. There was also a mother with her son, Leading him by the hand and before the husband
REPRESENTATIONS him.

"Father," she said, "how many times we thought, chatting with each other, of the happy day come
that would, if future Hermann, his bride elect, we all were at last! Back and forth as we thought, now
this, now that certain girl we with him parental chatter. Now he is coming, the day and now
has the bride of him Heaven brought here and shown that it has decided his heart now. Did we not
then always, he should choose to own? Wish you not even earlier, he would like gay and lively
feel for a girl? Now the hour has come! Yes, he has felt and elected and is decidedly male.
That girl is it that the woman, who met him. Give it to him, or he stays, he swore in the unmarried
status. "

And the son said: "The give me father My heart has chosen clean and
safe, you it is the worthy daughter.

"

But the father was silent. There was the priest quickly, took the floor and said: "The Moment
only decides on the life of man and all his fortunes, For after a long discussion but every decision
is only the work of the moment, but it takes only Verstaend'ge of the rights. More and more dangerous
is it, when you select this and that, alongside to consider and so confusing the feeling. Hermann
Rein is, I know him from childhood, Even as a boy and he reached the hands not look like this
and that. What he sought, According to him was, he thought it was also found. Do not be shy and
surprised that now once appeareth what you wished for so long. It has the appearance is not as
true now the shape of desire, just as you about him geheget. Because the wishes us conceal themselves
what you want, the gifts come from above, in their own form. Now bring Ennetbürgen it is not the
girl that your loved ones, good and reasonably son first moves the soul added. Happy is he
to whom sufficient once the first lover's hand, To the sweetest Desire not secretly languishing
in the heart! Yes, I see him, it is his destiny decided. True affection for her husband completed
once the youth. Not movable he, I'm afraid you fail him this, then go the years, the most beautiful,
in a sad Life. "

Since the pharmacist immediately replied slowly, jumping to a long
word from the lip was ready: "Let us enter this time but only the
means the road Ludo was himself Emperor Augustus' motto.

I am happy to send me to serve the dear neighbor, need my little mind to their benefit: And especially
need young people that to guide them. Let me out so, I will examine it, the girl, Will the community
To interview in which she lives and known. No one betriegt me so easily, I know the words to
appreciate. "

As once the son replied, with winged words: "Do it, neighbor, and goes and asks You. But I wish
that the pastor is also nearby, in your society; Two Men are such
excellent unverwerfliche witnesses.

Oh, my father! it is not, hurrying, the girl, not that roams through the land of adventure, and
ensnared the young man, the inexperienced, with plots. No, the fate of wild allverderblichen
War, The the World destroyed and lifted some solid building already on the ground that the arms
had driven. Strips are not wonderful men of high birth now in misery? Princes disguised flee king's
life and utterly. Oh, so is she, by her sisters the best, from the Country driven, forgetting
her own accident, she is in others, is still without aid remedy. Gross misery and hardship, which over
the earth is wide, if not go forth a blessing from this accident and I, in the arms of the
bride, wife of the reliable, Me not enjoy the war, freutet like you the fire you? "

Then said the father, and did much on the lips: "How is my son, you solved the tongue, already
in the mouth you many years to solidify and only meager moving! Do I have it today To learn what
every father is threatened: that the will of the son, the violent,
like the mother Too lenient and favored every neighbor takes sides,
when it hergeht about the father now or Ehmann.

But I will not resist together, what of 'it? For I see But even here, despite tears and in advance.
Go and examine them in the name of God and brings the Daughter to my home and if not, he may
forget the girl! "

So the father. It said the son with joyful gesture: "Before you is the most excellent evening
Bestowed daughter, as she wishes the man himself, the home of a wise sense of the chest. The
good is happy then, I may hope so.

Yes, they thank me for ever, that I her father and mother again given you, as it sensible family
plans. But I do not zaudre, I direct the horse harnesses and lead the friends out into the
Trace of the lover, leave the men themselves and their own wisdom, lessons, so I swear to you,
me all the way to its decision, and I do not see it again until it is mine, the girl. "And
so he went out, however, many considered the others wisely and quickly discussed the important
thing. Hurry ', he lays them out on the bare teeth, Pulled the strap immediately by the beautiful
silver buckles attached, and then the long, wider reins, led the horses out in the yard where
the willing servant already advanced the coach, they move easily on the drawbar. Measured They
picked up on it on the scale Stricken with clean his speed of slightly drawn-out horses. Hermann
took the whip; Then he sat and roll 'in the doorway. When the friends are now equal to the spacious
seats taken in a hurry and left the car rolled back the patch, left behind the walls the city and
the neat towers. Said Hermann then drove to the well-known road, Quickly, and do not tarry and
went uphill as mountainous as. But as he is now the tower of the And saw the village not far more were
the garden surrounding houses, thought he to himself itself, now to stop the horses.

By paying homage to the dark sublime Linden overshadowed for centuries to have this opportunity
rooted War, covers a wide green lawn with finished Anger Before the village, the farmers and
nearby cities, a pleasure resort. dug flat was under the trees a well. Rose one down the steps,
then showed stone benches, ring placed around the source, which always
life gushed, cleanliness, taken with a low wall, to draw more comfortable.

Hermann but decided to keep the horses in the shade with the car. He did so and said the words:
"Embark, friends, and is now out, so you may know if the girl also worth the hand was that
I offer her. Although I believe it, and I told her nothing new and Rare; Had I to do alone, so
did I nimbly toward the village, and a few words would decide the fate of my best. And you will
soon see it above all others, For is probably difficult to her an education comparable. But I
still give you the signs of neat clothes: Because of the red bib gewoelbeten elevates the breasts,
beauty laced, and It is the black bodice of her short; Sauber she has folded the hem of the shirt
to Krause, Ye that surrounding the chin, the round, with cleaner grace; shows free and clear
to the head dainty Eirund Stark are many times the braids wrapped around silver needles; Much
folded Catch and blue under the bib of her skirt and turns in the well-educated Gehn ankle.
But I will tell you and yet I expressly ask: do not talk to the girl, and remember do not be
the intention, but inquire of the others and hear what they tell everything. Have your message
enough to calm, father and mother, then back to me Come back and we CONT the mind. So I thought I
made it, the way since we moved. "

So, he said. It went out to the friends of the village, where in gardens and barns and houses the amount
of people swarming, Karrn Karrn to the broad street was gone. Men served the bellowing cattle and
horse 'to the car, laundry dried diligently on all hedges the women, and it amused the children splashing
in the water of the creek. So by the cars jostling by people and animals, they looked right
and left around, the sent scouts, not whether they saw as the image
of the designated girl, But not all of the beautiful maiden appeared.

More they soon found the crowd. There was the car of armed men threatened into which, mingled with
the women screaming. As soon approached by paying homage to an old man steps up, went to the scolding
way, and immediately the din died away, when he commanded silence, and fathers seriously threatened
them. "We were," said he, "not the accident so subdued, that we finally understand us together
to tolerate and to tolerate, if not all the acts of gauging? Intolerance for true is the lucky!
Finally, the suffering will teach you not, as usual, with the to quarrel brother? Gonnet each
other along the place on foreign soil and cleaves, What ye have; to find their mercy! "

So said the man, and all were silent; compatible uted cattle and the wagon again appeased People. But
shattered the need down the habitual way of life, Tear the building and gnaws away at the garden
and seed, Driving to the man and the woman of space, the intimate apartment Dragged her away
into error, by anxious days and nights: Oh! as seen in out who was probably the sensible man, and
he speaks no longer the glorious words in vain. Tell me, Father, you are certainly the judges
of this fugitive men, who you immediately calmed down? Yes, you appear to me today as one of the oldest
leaders, by Deserts and wandering displaced peoples passed.


If only someone would speak to him! If only someone would sing to him. Music would carry his
thoughts away, and would break the spell lying on him. The moon was streaming in at the open
window; but that, too, was silent, quite silent.

'Music! music!' cried the Emperor. 'You little bright golden bird, sing! do sing! I gave you
gold and jewels; I have hung my gold slipper round your neck with my own hand--sing! do sing!'
But the bird was silent. There was no one to wind it up, and so it could not sing. And all
was silent, so terribly silent!

All at once there came in at the window the most glorious burst of song. It was the little
living Nightingale, who, sitting outside on a bough, had heard the need of her Emperor and
had come to sing to him of comfort and hope. And as she sang the blood flowed quicker and quicker
in the Emperor's weak limbs, and life began to return.

'Thank you, thank you!' said the Emperor. 'You divine little bird! I know you. I chased you
from my kingdom, and you have given me life again! How can I reward you?'

'You have done that already!' said the Nightingale. 'I brought tears to your eyes the first
time I sang. I shall never forget that. They are jewels that rejoice a singer's heart. But
now sleep and get strong again; I will sing you a lullaby.' And the Emperor fell into a deep,
calm sleep as she sang.

The sun was shining through the window when he awoke, strong and well. None of his servants
had come back yet, for they thought he was dead. But the Nightingale sat and sang to him.

'You must always stay with me!' said the Emperor. 'You shall sing whenever you like, and I
will break the artificial bird into a thousand pieces.'

'Don't do that!' said the Nightingale. 'He did his work as long as he could. Keep him as you
have done! I cannot build my nest in the Palace and live here; but let me come whenever I like.
I will sit in the evening on the bough outside the window, and I will sing you something that
will make you feel happy and grateful. I will sing of joy, and of sorrow; I will sing of the
evil and the good which lies hidden from you. The little singing-bird flies all around, to
the poor fisherman's hut, to the farmer's cottage, to all those who are far away from you and
your Court. I love your heart more than your crown, though that has about it a brightness as
of something holy. Now I will sing to you again; but you must promise me one thing----'

'Anything!' said the Emperor, standing up in his Imperial robes, which he had himself put on,
and fastening on his sword richly embossed with gold.

'One thing I beg of you! Don't tell anyone that you have a little bird who tells you everything.
It will be much better not to!' Then the Nightingale flew away.

The servants came in to look at their dead Emperor.

The Emperor said, 'Good-morning!'

HERMOD AND HADVOR (32)

(32) From the Icelandic.

Once upon a time there were a King and a Queen who had an only daughter, called Hadvor, who
was fair and beautiful, and being an only child, was heir to the kingdom. The King and Queen
had also a foster son, named Hermod, who was just about the same age as Hadvor, and was good-looking,
as well as clever at most things. Hermod and Hadvor often played together while they were children,
and liked each other so much that while they were still young they secretly plighted their
troth to each other.

As time went on the Queen fell sick, and suspecting that it was her last illness, sent for
the King to come to her. When he came she told him that she had no long time to live, and therefore
wished to ask one thing of him, which was, that if he married another wife he should promise
to take no other one than the Queen of Hetland the Good. The King gave the promise, and thereafter
the Queen died.

Time went past, and the King, growing tired of living alone, fitted out his ship and sailed
out to sea. As he sailed there came upon him so thick a mist that he altogether lost his bearings,
but after long trouble he found land. There he laid his ship to, and went on shore all alone.
After walking for some time he came to a forest, into which he went a little way and stopped.
Then he heard sweet music from a harp, and went in the direction of the sound until he came
to a clearing, and there he saw three women, one of whom sat on a golden chair, and was beautifully
and grandly dressed; she held a harp in her hands, and was very sorrowful. The second was also
finely dressed, but younger in appearance, and also sat on a chair, but it was not so grand
as the first one's. The third stood beside them, and was very pretty to look at; she had a
green cloak over her other clothes, and it was easy to see that she was maid to the other two.

After the King had looked at them for a little he went forward and saluted them. The one that
sat on the golden chair asked him who he was and where he was going; and he told her all the
story--how he was a king, and had lost his queen, and was now on his way to Hetland the Good,
to ask the Queen of that country in marriage. She answered that fortune had contrived this
wonderfully, for pirates had plundered Hetland and killed the King, and she had fled from the
land in terror, and had come hither after great trouble, and she was the very person he was
looking for, and the others were her daughter and maid. The King immediately asked her hand;
she gladly received his proposal and accepted him at once. Thereafter they all set out, and
made their way to the ship; and after that nothing is told of their voyage until the King reached
his own country. There he made a great feast, and celebrated his marriage with this woman;
and after that things are quiet for a time.

Hermod and Hadvor took but little notice of the Queen and her daughter, but, on the other hand,
Hadvor and the Queen's maid, whose name was Olof, were very friendly, and Olof came often to
visit Hadvor in her castle. Before long the King went out to war, and no sooner was he away
than the Queen came to talk with Hermod, and said that she wanted him to marry her daughter.
Hermod told her straight and plain that he would not do so, at which the Queen grew terribly
angry, and said that in that case neither should he have Hadvor, for she would now lay this
spell on him, that he should go to a desert island and there be a lion by day and a man by
night. He should also think always of Hadvor, which would cause him all the more sorrow, and
from this spell he should never be freed until Hadvor burned the lion's skin, and that would
not happen very soon. He often remained at the shops of the great merchants and listened attentively to discussions
of distinguished men, who were here or had to come here: and these talks gave him some paint gradually
from knowledge of the world.

As of the ten pieces of gold there was nothing left, Alaeddin took refuge in the lamp. He took
her in hand, searched the place, which had touched his mother, and
when he acknowledged the influence of the sand, he rubbed them, just
as they had done.

Alaeddin and his mother sat down to dinner, and after supper they was still so much left that they
could live comfortably the next two days like this.

When Alaeddin saw that neither bread nor food, nor was money left at home, he took a silver
plate and looked for the Jews, whom he knew on to sell them. On the way to him, he passed the shop
of a goldsmith, who by his venerable age, while an honest and upright man was. The goldsmith noticed
him and called him, he want room there. "My son," he said to him, "I've been up several times
with the same Product as now pass, go to those Jews and come back soon with empty hands . See
This has brought me to the idea that you are what you wear, it's always him sell. But you do not,
perhaps, that this Jew is a cheating, a worse Impostor, as the other Jews, and that no one who
knows him, will have to do with him. Moreover, I tell you this only as a favor. If you want to
show me what you now in your hands, and you is cheap, so I will pay out the true value faithfully,
if I dared may need it, if not, I want to tell other business people,
the up do not be deceived.

"

Hoping to solve, even more money for his bowl, they immediately pulled under Alaeddin his dress
out and she showed the goldsmith. The old man, who recognized at first glance, that she was the
finest silver, asked him if he sells well already similar to the Jews and what he had received
from him for it. Alaeddin confessed frankly that he had twelve such and the Jew had sold him
pay for every one piece of gold. "Ah, the rascal!" cried the goldsmith. "My son," he added, "what's
done is done, and you must not think of it, but if I now discover the true value of your bowl,
which is the finest silver, which is processed only some of us, you
will see, how much the Jew has cheated you.

"

The goldsmith took the scales, weighed the dish, and after he explained Alaeddin had what a
mark was silver, he made him understand that this bowl their weights after seventy-two pieces
of gold was worth, which he immediately paid him naked. "There have you, "he said," the true amount
of your bowl.

If you still doubt it, so can Do you apply at will to any other of
our goldsmiths, and if you said one, that it was worth more, so I
promise to pay you twice for it. "

Alaeddin thanked the goldsmith
for the very good advice I have just found his
dead body lying at the Palace gate.'

The King went along with the Queen to see the body, and thought it all very strange; so beautiful
a youth, he said, would have been a worthy match for Hadvor, and he would readily have agreed
to their marriage. The Queen asked leave to decide what Hadvor's punishment should be, which
the King was very willing to allow, so as to escape from punishing his own daughter. The Queen's
decision was that the King should make a big grave-mound for her brother, and put Hadvor into
it beside him.

Olof knew all the plans of the Queen, and went to tell the Princess what had been done, whereupon
Hadvor earnestly entreated her to tell her what to do.

'First and foremost,' said Olof, 'you must get a wide cloak to wear over your other clothes,
when you are put into the mound. The Giant's ghost will walk after you are both left together
in there, and he will have two dogs along with him. He will ask you to cut pieces out of his
legs to give to the dogs, but that you must not promise to do unless he tells you where Hermod
has gone to, and tells you how to find him. He will then let you stand on his shoulders, so
as to get out of the mound; but he means to cheat you all the same, and will catch you by the
cloak to pull you back again; but you must take care to have the cloak loose on your shoulders,
so that he will only get hold of that.'

The mound was all ready now, and the Giant laid in it, and into it Hadvor also had to go without
being allowed to make any defence. After they were both left there everything happened just
as Olof had said. The prince became a Giant again, and asked Hadvor to cut the pieces out of
his legs for the dogs; but she refused until he told her that Hermod was in a desert island,
which she could not reach unless she took the skin off the soles of his feet and made shoes
out of that; with these shoes she could travel both on land and sea. This Hadvor now did, and
the Giant then let her get up on his shoulders to get out of the mound. As she sprang out he
caught hold of her cloak; but she had taken care to let it lie loose on her shoulders, and
so escaped.

She now made her way down to the sea, to where she knew there was the shortest distance over
to the island in which Hermod was. This strait she easily crossed, for the shoes kept her up.
On reaching the island she found a sandy beach all along by the sea, and high cliffs above.
Nor could she see any way to get up these, and so, being both sad at heart and tired with the
long journey, she lay down and fell asleep. As she slept she dreamed that a tall woman came
to her and said, 'I know that you are Princess Hadvor, and are searching for Hermod. He is
on this island; but it will be hard for you to get to him if you have no one to help you, for
you cannot climb the cliffs by your own strength. I have therefore let down a rope, by which
you will be able to climb up; and as the island is so large that you might not find Hermod's
dwelling-place so easily, I lay down this clew beside you. You need only hold the end of the
thread, and the clew will run on before and show you the way. I also lay this belt beside you,
to put on when you awaken; it will keep you from growing faint with hunger.'

The woman now disappeared, and Hadvor woke, and saw that all her dream had been true. The rope
hung down from the cliff, and the clew and belt lay beside her. The belt she put on, the rope
enabled her to climb up the cliff, and the clew led her on till she came to the mouth of a
cave, which was not very big. She went into the cave, and saw there a low couch, under which
she crept and lay down.

When evening came she heard the noise of footsteps outside, and became aware that the lion
had come to the mouth of the cave, and shook itself there, after which she heard a man coming
towards the couch. She was sure this was Hermod, because she heard him speaking to himself
about his own condition, and calling to mind Hadvor and other things in the old days. Hadvor
made no sign, but waited till he had fallen asleep, and then crept out and burned the lion's
skin, which he had left outside. Then she went back into the cave and wakened Hermod, and they
had a most joyful meeting.

In the morning they talked over their plans, and were most at a loss to know how to get out
of the island. Hadvor told Hermod her dream, and said she suspected there was some one in the
island who would be able to help them. Hermod said he knew of a Witch there, who was very ready
to help anyone, and that the only plan was to go to her. The son of Grand Vizier, who still has his bad luck that night more ashamed and
angry, than the first time heard him hardly come as he got up hurriedly and in the dressing
room fell.

The sultan approached the bed of the princess, wished her good morning and then said to caresses
the same as the day before: "Well, my dear daughter, are you this morning again such a bad mood, like
yesterday? Will you tell me how you spent the night you? "The princess watched the same silence
and the Sultan remarked that they far more restless and troubled was when the first time. He
had no more now that her something extraordinary must have happened, but was angry about her
silence and she cried in anger and with a drawn sword, "If you do not confess to me what you hide
like, I haue you immediately head off. "

The princess, who was startled by the sound and the threat of even more offended Sultan, as the sight
of the bare sword, finally broke the silence and said with tears in Eyes: "Beloved Father and King!
I apologize if I offended you, hope but of your goodness and gentleness, compassion that will
take the place of anger when I you the sad and pitiful state in which I have both this than
the previous night found to faithfully describe.

"

After this introduction, the sultan appeased somewhat milder and agreed, she told him all that
had met her during those two nights morose, true and so touching, that he was sad, for he loved
his daughter very dearly.

She closed with the words: "If you doubt the least of my story, so you can ask her husband,
whom you have given me, and I believe that he testify to the truth of the matter as I will,
I '.

The Sultan said the deep grief, in which the princess by such a striking Adventure had to be
added. "Dear daughter," he said to her, "it was very wrong of you that you have told me this strange
story is not yesterday, which I also must be important to you. I have not married with the
intention of you unhappy to make, but on the contrary, I thought of you because in the possession
of happiness to all To put you deserve and at a husband who seemed
to fit for you, could you hope for.

Only spell out of your mind the sad thoughts of what you just told me. I will immediately give
orders that you henceforth not as unpleasant and unbearable nights longer have, as usual.
"

When the Sultan returned to his apartments, he sent for the Grand Vizier. "Vizier," he said to him,
"have you seen your son already and he has told you nothing?"

When the Grand Vizier replied that he had not seen it yet, he told the Sultan all that he heard
from the Princess Bedrulbudur. "I have no doubt," he said at last, "that my Daughter has told
me the truth, however, it would be very glad if your son is confirmed. Go and ask him what is the
point. "

The grand vizier went immediately to his son, told him what the Sultan said to him had, and enjoined
him that he should conceal not say anything and that everything was true. "I'll tell you the
truth, my father," replied the son. "Everything the princess the Sultan said, has its sad
accuracy, but the bad treatment I especially I know, they do not know. I need you to deal not
extensive, I have gone through all this if I desungeachtet against
the princess, my wife, all feelings of love, honor and cherish gratitude
it deserves. However, should I'll admit, however, that I, as honorable
and brilliant marriage of the daughter the Sultan for me to stay,
to die rather than longer in such a high affinity will, even if I
also still have to expose such an unpleasant treatment. This is no place for her! The tin-soldiers rattled
in their box, for they wanted to be out too, but they could not raise the lid. The nut-crackers
played at leap-frog, and the slate-pencil ran about the slate; there was such a noise that
the canary woke up and began to talk to them, in poetry too! The only two who did not stir
from their places were the Tin-soldier and the little Dancer. She remained on tip-toe, with
both arms outstretched; he stood steadfastly on his one leg, never moving his eyes from her face.

The clock struck twelve, and crack! off flew the lid of the snuff-box; but there was no snuff
inside, only a little black imp--that was the beauty of it.

'Hullo, Tin-soldier!' said the imp. 'Don't look at things that aren't intended for the likes
of you!'

But the Tin-soldier took no notice, and seemed not to hear.

'Very well, wait till to-morrow!' said the imp.

When it was morning, and the children had got up, the Tin-soldier was put in the window; and
whether it was the wind or the little black imp, I don't know, but all at once the window flew
open and out fell the little Tin-soldier, head over heels, from the third-storey window! That
was a terrible fall, I can tell you! He landed on his head with his leg in the air, his gun
being wedged between two paving-stones.

The nursery-maid and the little boy came down at once to look for him, but, though they were
so near him that they almost trod on him, they did not notice him. If the Tin-soldier had only
called out 'Here I am!' they must have found him; but he did not think it fitting for him to
cry out, because he had on his uniform.

Soon it began to drizzle; then the drops came faster, and there was a regular down-pour. When
it was over, two little street boys came along.

'Just look!' cried one. 'Here is a Tin-soldier! He shall sail up and down in a boat!'

So they made a little boat out of newspaper, put the Tin-soldier in it, and made him sail up
and down the gutter; both the boys ran along beside him, clapping their hands. What great waves
there were in the gutter, and what a swift current! The paper-boat tossed up and down, and
in the middle of the stream it went so quick that the Tin-soldier trembled; but he remained
steadfast, showed no emotion, looked straight in front of him, shouldering his gun. All at
once the boat passed under a long tunnel that was as dark as his box had been.

'Where can I be coming now?' he wondered. 'Oh, dear! This is the black imp's fault!

'Have you a passport?' asked the rat. 'Out with your passport!'

But the Tin-soldier was silent, and grasped his gun more firmly.

The boat sped on, and the rat behind it. Ugh! how he showed his teeth, as he cried to the chips
of wood and straw: 'Hold him, hold him! he has not paid the toll! He has not shown his passport!'

But the current became swifter and stronger. The Tin-soldier could already see daylight where
the tunnel ended; but in his ears there sounded a roaring enough to frighten any brave man.
Only think! at the end of the tunnel the gutter discharged itself into a great canal; that
would be just as dangerous for him as it would be for us to go down a waterfall.

Now he was so near to it that he could not hold on any longer. On went the boat, the poor Tin-soldier
keeping himself as stiff as he could: no one should say of him afterwards that he had flinched.
The boat whirled three, four times round, and became filled to the brim with water: it began
to sink! The Tin-soldier was standing up to his neck in water, and deeper and deeper sank the
boat, and softer and softer grew the paper; now the water was over his head. He was thinking
of the pretty little Dancer, whose face he should never see again, and there sounded in his
ears, over and over again:

          'Forward, forward, soldier bold!
           Death's before thee, grim and cold!'

The paper came in two, and the soldier fell--but at that moment he was swallowed by a great fish.

Oh! how dark it was inside, even darker than in the tunnel, and it was really very close quarters!
But there the steadfast little Tin-soldier lay full length, shouldering his gun.

Up and down swam the fish, then he made the most dreadful contortions, and became suddenly
quite still. Then it was as if a flash of lightning had passed through him; the daylight streamed
in, and a voice exclaimed, 'Why, here is the little Tin-soldier!' The fish had been caught,
taken to market, sold, and brought into the kitchen, where the cook had cut it open with a
great knife. She took up the soldier between her finger and thumb, and carried him into the
room, where everyone wanted to see the hero who had been found inside a fish; but the Tin-soldier
was not at all proud. She was still standing on one leg with the other high in the air; she
too was steadfast. That touched the Tin-soldier, he was nearly going to shed tin-tears; but
that would not have been fitting for a soldier. He looked at her, but she said nothing.

All at once one of the little boys took up the Tin-soldier, and threw him into the stove, giving
no reasons; but doubtless the little black imp in the snuff-box was at the bottom of this too. All this one read "National". Schileder was
indignant face it: he said something about the courage of young people and the fact that they
do not just wanted words made, fine words, but to act. He could not articulate intimidated and remained
silent when he was not too vigorous assent. For a moment nodded they're all the friends, and put
some small word, like a bashful charity in the hand of justice. But eventually, they all looked
at - it was so tempting alone and as one might easily have done so a few confessions. Pátek summarily
condemned these Cave romance, but which would not even in the novels of rights and the poet
Machal, which is only a very vague idea of ​​what had happened had yawned, and threw between
two Gähnversuchen one that the whole thing seemed to him brutally, horribly brutal. Karas of every
day is a cosmopolitan feel, delivered a long speech, during which his "Adam's apple" like a frog
in doubt tortured and descended. His end was that one to the outside of the state of affairs because
of the view that these young people are not alone Martyrs of their idea, but the fallen heroes
were a national cause, with all Funds would have to maintain that he himself - here - can not
help such Immaturity, he said almost - immature - to condemn teenage boys. Man is yet to be
made to one did, after all, that one's rights by large national Bethätigungen in life and on
the political theater (a word which in his Karas Feuilletons used resistant) could save more
than by such improprieties. He probably had a few familiar phrases in the pool, but he stopped suddenly.
He knew itself is not why. The other looked up and there stood before them Rezek. The student,
in his pale face, her dark eyes were burning, overlooked the hands that held out to him. Perhaps
he had heard the last words of the critic, but he said nothing, sat quietly at his usual place
and drank his Tschaj. His hands were shaking hard quietly. They dared not speak. Finally began
to Pátek to talk about a new book, and The artists are all lost in these discussions. These were stories
in the style Maupassant, which would appear to be a young colleague. There were some difficulties
the question of money and other publishing matters, and we discussed whether we come to the aid
of the author should. The mighty Karas was not very inclined to do so. Cried Pátek indignantly:
"But I Please, this is a national cause, "

Rezek rose with an icy smile: "Are you Czechs," he said.

All were silent and looked at each move.

Schileder had risen.

"Are you Czech?" Repeated the student.

Karas soothingly: "What are you thinking, Rezek? Do not provoke.

"

"But are you ready? What? "Continued the away. »Mature and ready."

"He's
drunk," Machal whispered contemptuously.

Rezek clenched his fists.
But he restrained himself, "I know that you are accustomed to just
to keep anger for ordinary drunkenness. Ah! they are very different lads!'

'Well,' said Blockhead-Hans, 'if I can't have a horse, I will take the goat which is mine;
he can carry me!'

And he did so. He sat astride on the goat, struck his heels into its side, and went rattling
down the high-road like a hurricane.

'Hoppetty hop! what a ride!' Here I come!' shouted Blockhead-Hans, singing so that the echoes
were roused far and near. But his brothers were riding slowly in front. They were not speaking,
but they were thinking over all the good things they were going to say, for everything had
to be thought out.

'Hullo!' bawled Blockhead-Hans, 'here I am! Just look what I found on the road!'--and he showed
them a dead crow which he had picked up.

'Blockhead!' said his brothers, 'what are you going to do with it?'

'With the crow? I shall give it to the Princess!'

'Do so, certainly!' they said, laughing loudly and riding on.

'Slap! bang! here I am again! Look what I have just found! You don't find such things every
day on the road!' And the brothers turned round to see what in the world he could have found.

'Blockhead!' said they, 'that is an old wooden shoe without the top! Are you going to send
that, too, to the Princess?'

'Of course I shall!' returned Blockhead-Hans; and the brothers laughed and rode on a good way.

'Slap! bang! here I am!' cried Blockhead-Hans; 'better and better--it is really famous!'

'What have you found now?' asked the brothers.

'Oh,' said Blockhead-Hans, 'it is really too good! How pleased the Princess will be!'

'Why!' said the brothers, 'this is pure mud, straight from the ditch.'

'Of course it is!' said Blockhead-Hans, 'and it is the best kind! Look how it runs through
one's fingers!' and, so saying, he filled his pocket with the mud.

But the brothers rode on so fast that dust and sparks flew all around, and they reached the
gate of the town a good hour before Blockhead-Hans. Here came the suitors numbered according
to their arrival, and they were ranged in rows, six in each row, and they were so tightly packed
that they could not move their arms. This was a very good thing, for otherwise they would have
torn each other in pieces, merely because the one was in front of the other.

All the country people were standing round the King's throne, and were crowded together in
thick masses almost out of the windows to see the Princess receive the suitors; and as each
one came into the room all his fine phrases went out like a candle!

'It doesn't matter!' said the Princess. 'Away! out with him!'

At last she came to the row in which the brother who knew the dictionary by heart was, but
he did not know it any longer; he had quite forgotten it in the rank and file. Why has he turned to me and not to up, as he was
but you already appeared in the treasure cave again? "

"Dear mother," replied Alaeddin, 'the spirit which appeared to you, is not the same, seemed
to me. They have some similarity in relation to its giant size, but to countenance and clothes
are completely different and includes Men of different. You'll remember that one I saw in a
Slaves of the ring, called the I'm on my finger, while the recently published, said he was
a slave of the lamp you had in your hand. "

"How," cried Alaeddin mother, "so your lamp is to blame for this cursed spirit has turned to me
instead of you? Oh, dear son, it creates me at once out of sight and pick them up anywhere you
like, I do not touch it. Rather, I let them throw or sell, save that I was in danger of dying
in contact with the same fear. Episode I am doing and from the ring. One must have no intercourse
with spirits: there are devils and Our prophet has said it.

"

"With your permission, dear mother," Alaeddin replied, "I will take good care now well a lamp that can
be useful to both of us to sell. Do not you see what she has given us only a few moments?
Contact us now to food and livelihood . Get You can imagine that my uncle nasty false so not
without reason has a lot of trouble and made such a long and difficult journey, because after
the Possession this wonderful lamp sought, which he especially gold and silver, which he knew
in the halls I had and how he described it to me, saw with my own eyes preferred. He knew the
value and the wonderful properties of this lamp too good to stand out from the rest wealth to
do something else. Because now has the chance we discovered their secret power, we want to make
the most advantageous use of it, but without attracting attention, so that our neighbors will
not be envious and jealous. I will give you all the contact create in the eyes and lift in a place
where I can find them when I need it, since you have such great fear
of the spirits. And the reporters giggled, and each dropped a blot
of ink on the floor.

'Ah! are those the great people?' said Blockhead-Hans. 'Then I will give the editor the best!'
So saying, he turned his pockets inside out, and threw the mud right in his face.

'That was neatly done!' said the Princess. 'I couldn't have done it; but I will soon learn how to!'

Blockhead-Hans became King, got a wife and a crown, and sat on the throne; and this we have
still damp from the newspaper of the editor and the reporters--and they are not to be believed
for a moment.

A STORY ABOUT A DARNING-NEEDLE

There was once a Darning-needle who thought herself so fine that she believed she was an embroidery-needle.
'Take great care to hold me tight!' said the Darning-needle to the Fingers who were holding
her. 'Don't let me fall! If I once fall on the ground I shall never be found again, I am so fine!'

'It is all right!' said the Fingers, seizing her round the waist.

The Fingers were using the needle on the cook's shoe. The upper leather was unstitched and
had to be sewn together.

'This is common work!' said the Darning-needle. 'I shall never get through it. I am breaking!
I am breaking!' And in fact she did break. 'Didn't I tell you so!' said the Darning-needle.
'I am too fine!'

'Now she is good for nothing!' said the Fingers; but they had to hold her tight while the cook
dropped some sealing-wax on the needle and stuck it in the front of her dress.

'Now I am a breast-pin!' said the Darning-needle. 'I always knew I should be promoted. When
one is something, one will become something!' And she laughed to herself; you can never see
when a Darning-needle is laughing. Then she sat up as proudly as if she were in a State coach,
and looked all round her. Also in the soul issue, the theistic antipantheistische
and conception of the soul as an independent, active substance again larger Annex, (star, Driesch,
Austria, Külpe, Scheler, cup). But above all the profound transformation of the modern metaphysical
thinking in the opinion of leading researchers the problem of free will indicated. During about
ten years, the various forms of "determinism" in almost exclusive dominion stood occur at present
a large Number of important reiheitdesmenschlich researcher for the study of the F s will a. It
may be mentioned here James, Bergson, K. Joel, we a very deep Paper due on the question of
Driesch, H. Munsterberg, Scheler, N. Alas, in his book has done "The will and temperament" with the
most to the will of experimental-psychological facts to explain, is also close to the teaching
of free will.

Under the stated metaphysicians, and conditions and this general direction, should star, cup Driesch
and get the most important. William Stern, whose main work, person and property " still unfinished,
is trying the concept of "person" as a psycho-physical indifferent, to make targeted active center
of action as the basis of metaphysics - a view that many with the person teaching the author how
he developed in his book on ethics, together has recalled in the other direction but to Driesch and
von Hartmann's concrete monism. The Stern's valuable book also contains a very considerable
discussion of the passivist and mechanistic biology and same-association psychology, one acute and far-reaching
criticism be subjected. Star "teleomechanischer parallelism" of all formal mechanical relations in the
universe only as M ittelsysteme for purposive unconscious acts and forces conceived, in which
a hierarchy of functional active "people" of different impact of being and value inherent in stages,
is a very remarkable idea. Course appears Stern's approach to us as yet too dogmatic, even overlooked
star of the essential difference of "mind" and "life", which is here resolved into a mere difference
of degree.
 Dip-into-everything, the second
finger, dipped into sweet things as well as sour things, pointed to the sun and the moon, and
guided the pen when they wrote. Longman, the third, looked at the others over his shoulder.
Goldband, the fourth, had a gold sash round his waist; and little Playman did nothing at all,
and was the more proud. There was too much ostentation, and so I came away.'

'And now we are sitting and shining here!' said the bit of bottle-glass.

At that moment more water came into the gutter; it streamed over the edges and washed the bit
of bottle-glass away.

'Ah! now he has been promoted!' said the Darning-needle. 'I remain here; I am too fine. But
that is my pride, which is a sign of respectability!' And she sat there very proudly, thinking
lofty thoughts.

'The walls white and I black--what a pretty contrast it makes!' said the Darning-needle. 'Now
I can be seen to advantage! If only I am not sea-sick! I should give myself up for lost!'

But she was not sea-sick, and did not give herself up.

'It is a good thing to be steeled against sea-sickness; here one has indeed an advantage over
man! Now my qualms are over. The finer one is the more one can beat.'

'Crack!' said the egg-shell as a wagon-wheel went over it. The counselor you
should write that he Deruga was in custody and have nothing to do with it could and would.

"That would probably be too late," said the counselor. "You will certainly attest that you are
from the evening the 1