The Black Hawk War was the principal event of the administration of Governor Reynolds.  A treaty
of peace being concluded, the Indians were removed beyond the Mississippi River.  In all this
the Governor acquitted himself with credit.

That his aversion to office-holding was in some measure lessening, will appear from the following:

"Being in the office of Governor for some years, I was prevented from the practice of the law,
and in the meantime had been engaged in public life until it commenced to be a kind of second
nature to me.  Moreover, I was then young, ardent, and ambitious, so that I really thought
it was right for me to offer for Congress; and I did so, in the Spring of 1834."

An "artful politician" would probably have waited until the expiration of his term as Governor.
Not so with this "friend of the people." He was not only elected to the next Congress, but
the death of the sitting member for the District creating a vacancy, Reynolds was of course
elected to that also, and was thus at one time Governor of the State and member elect both
to the next and to the present Congress.

His triumph over his "able and worthy competitor" is accounted for in this wise:  "I was myself
tolerably well informed in the science of electioneering with the masses of the people.  I
was raised with the people, and was literally one of them.  We always acted together, and our
common instincts, feelings and interests were the same." He here modestly ventured the opinion
that his "efforts on the stump, while making no pretension to classic eloquence, yet flowing
naturally from the heart, supplied in them many defects."

A mite of self-approval, tinged with a philosophy which appears to have been always kept on
tap, closes this chapter of his remarkable career.  He says:

"I sincerely state that I never regarded as important the salary of the office, but I entered
public office with a sincere desire to advance the best interest of the country, which was
my main reward.  If a person would subdue his ambition for office and remain a private citizen,
he would be a more happy man."

That he must have been the most miserable of men, during the greater part of his long life,
clearly appears from the following:  "There is no person happy who is in public office, or
a candidate for office."

A more extensive field of usefulness now opened up to the Old Ranger as he took his seat in
Congress.  He had many projects in mind for the benefit of the people--one, the reduction of
the price of the public lands to actual settlers; another, the improvement of our Western rivers.
But like many other members both before and since his day, he found that "these things were
easier to talk about on the stump than to do."  He candidly admits:  "This body was much greater
than I had supposed, and I could effect much less than I had contemplated."

He informs us that he felt like a country boy just from home the first time, as he entered
the hall of the law-makers of the great Republic.  The city of Washington, grand and imposing,
impressed him deeply, but was as the dust in the balance to "the assemblage of great men at
the seat of Government of the United States, and at the opening of Congress, when a grand and
really imposing spectacle was presented."

His profound admiration for some of his associates upon the broader theatre of the public service
found vent in the following eloquent words:

"When the Roman Empire reached the highest pinnacle of literary fame and political power in
the reign of Augustus Caesar, the period was called the Augustan age.  There was a period that
existed eminently in the Jackson administration and a few years after that might be called
the Augustan age of Congress.  So extraordinary a constellation of great and distinguished
individuals may never again appear in office at the seat of government."

If apology were needed for the new members' exalted opinion of his associates, it can readily
be found in the fact that among them in the House were John Quincy Adams, John Bell, Thomas
F. Marshall, Ben Hardin, James K. Polk, Millard Fillmore, and Franklin Pierce. The first named
had been President of the United States, and the last three were yet to hold that great office.
At the same time "the constellation of great stars" that almost appalled the Illinois member
upon his introduction included, in the Senate, Crittenden, Wright, Cass, Woodbury, Preston,
Buchanan, Grundy, Benton, Clay, Calhoun, and Webster.

On finally taking leave of Congress, our member congratulates himself that during seven years
of service he was absent from his seat but a single day.  That all his humble endeavors were
in the interest of the people, of course, goes without saying.  He deprecates in strong terms
the extravagance of some members of Congress in allowing their expenses to exceed their salaries,
and then leaving the capital in debt.  That he did nothing of the kind, but practised economy
in all his expenses, it is hardly necessary to state.  He is not, however, entitled to a patent
for the discovery that "the expenses for living at the seat of Government of the United States
are heavy."

Being a widower, conditions were now favorable for a little romance to be mingled with the
dull cares of state.  Near the close of his last term, he says:  "I became acquainted with
a lady in the District of Columbia, and we, in consideration of mutual love and affection,
married.  The same tie binds us in matrimonial happiness to the present time."  He here admits
a fact that might at this later day subject him to Executive displeasure:  "Posterity will
have an unsettled account against us for having added nothing to the great reservoir of the
human family."

It may be of interest to know that while in Congress our member humbly accepted the appointment
tendered him by Governor Carlin as Commissioner to negotiate the Illinois and Michigan Canal
bonds. His earnest desire to have some one else appointed availed nothing, and in the interest
of the great enterprise, upon the success of which the future of the State seemed to hang,
he spent the summer of 1839 in Europe.  While his mission abroad was fruitless as to its immediate
object, it is gratifying to know that our commissioner returned duly impressed with "the immense
superiority in every possible manner of our own country, and all its glorious institutions,
over those of the monarchies of the old world."

It would be idle to suppose that the retirement of the Old Ranger from Congress was to terminate
his career of usefulness to the people. On the contrary, he says:  "In 1846, I was elected
a member from St. Clair County to the General Assembly of the State.  The main object of myself
and friends was to obtain a charter for a macadamized road from Belleville to the Mississippi
River, opposite St. Louis."

This all satisfactorily accomplished, and the Legislature adjourned, "I turned my time and
attention to the calm and quiet of life. With my choice library of one thousand volumes I indulged
in the study of science and literature.  I soon discovered that the bustle and turmoil of political
life did not produce happiness."

Sad to relate, this faithful public servant, worn with the cares of state, was not even yet
permitted to lay aside his armor. The happiness of private life, for which his soul yearned
as the hart panteth for the water brooks, was again postponed for the hated bustle and turmoil
of politics.  In 1852, against his remonstrances, he was again elected to the Legislature,
and upon the organization of the House unanimously chosen Speaker.

Reluctantly indeed, we now take leave of John Reynolds--the quaintest of all the odd characters
this country of ours has known.  In doing so, it is indeed a comfort to know that, true as
the needle to the pole, his great heart continued to beat in unison with that of the people.
Ascending the Speaker's stand, and lifting the gavel, with deep emotion he said--and these
are to us his last words:  "I have nothing to labor for but the public good.  My life has been
devoted to promote the public interest of Illinois, and in my latter days it will afford me
profound pleasure to advance now, as I have always done in the past, the best interests of
the people."

XIII THE MORMON EXODUS FROM ILLINOIS

DELEGATE CANNON AND SENATOR CANNON, MORMONS--SKETCH OF MORMONISM BY GOVERNOR FORD--JOSEPH SMITH'S
OWN ACCOUNT OF THE ORIGIN OF HIS CHURCH--HOW "THE BOOK OF MORMON" WAS MADE--NAUVOO, "THE HOLY
CITY"--EFFORTS OF WHIGS AND DEMOCRATS TO WIN THE VOTES OF THE MORMONS--VICTORY OF THE DEMOCRATS,
AND CONSEQUENT ANTI-MORMONISM OF THE WHIGS--JOSEPH SMITH'S PRETENSIONS TO ROYALTY--THE ORIGIN
OF POLYGAMY IN THE MORMON CHURCH--CONFLICT WITH THE STATE AUTHORITIES --SURRENDER OF THE LEADERS--ASSASSINATION
OF SMITH--BRIGHAM YOUNG CHOSEN AS HIS SUCCESSOR--THE EXODUS BEGINS.

Just across the aisle from my seat in the House of Representatives during the forty-sixth Congress
sat George Q. Cannon, the delegate from the Territory of Utah.  He held this position for many
years, and possessed in the highest degree the confidence of the Mormon people.  Fifteen years
later, when presiding over the Senate, I administered the oath of office to his son, the Hon.
Frank J. Cannon, the first chosen to represent the State of Utah in the Upper Chamber of the
National Congress.  Senator Cannon was then in high favor with "the powers that be" in Salt
Lake City, but for some cause not well understood by the Gentile world, is now persona non
grata with the head of the Mormon Church.  The younger Cannon was not a polygamist, and no
objection was urged to his being seated upon the presentation of his credentials as a Senator.
His father, the delegate, was in theory a polygamist, and had "the courage of his convictions"
to the extent of being the husband of five wives, and the head of as many separate households.
This, before the days of "unfriendly legislation," was, in Mormon parlance, called "living
your religion."

The delegate and the Senator were both men of ability, and possessed in large degree the respect
of their associates.  The former was in early youth a resident of Illinois, and was of the
advance guard of the Mormon exodus to the valley of the Great Salt Lake soon after the assassination
of the "prophet."  When I first visited Salt Lake City, in 1879, George Q. Cannon, in addition
to being the delegate in Congress, was one of the "Quorum of the Twelve," and was in the line
of succession to the presidency of the Church. From him I learned much that was of interest
concerning the history and tenets of the Mormon people.  The venerable John Taylor was then
the president of the Church, the immediate successor of Brigham Young.  He was in early life
a resident with his people in Nauvoo, Illinois, and was a prisoner in the Carthage jail with
the "Prophet Joseph" at the time of his assassination, in 1844.  President Taylor gave me a
graphic description of that now historic tragedy, and of his own narrow escape from the fate
of his idolized leader.

A brief notice of this singular people, and of what they did and suffered in Illinois, may
not be wholly without interest.  Mormonism was the apple of discord in the State during almost
the entire official term of the late Governor Ford.  More than one little army was, during
that period, sent into Hancock County--"the Mormon country"--to suppress disturbances and maintain
public order.

Governor Ford says:

"The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, as this organization is denominated by its
adherents, is to be viewed from the antagonistic Gentile and Mormon standpoints.

"Joseph Smith, the founder of the Mormon Church and its prophet, was born in Vermont, in 1805,
of obscure parentage.  His early education was extremely limited.  When he first began to act
the prophet, he was ignorant of almost everything which pertained to science; but he made up
in natural cunning for many deficiencies of education.  At the age of ten, he was taken by
his father to Wayne County, New York, where his youth was spent in an idle, vagabond life,
roaming the woods, dreaming of buried treasures, and exerting himself to find them by the twisting
of a forked stick in his hands, or by looking through enchanted stones.  He and his father
were 'water witchers,' always ready to point out the exact points where wells could be successfully
dug.  While leading an idle, profligate life, Joseph Smith became acquainted with Sidney Rigdon,
a man of talents and great plausibility.  Rigdon was the possessor of a religious romance written
some years before by a Presbyterian clergyman.  The perusal of this book suggested to Smith
and Rigdon the idea of starting a new religion.  By them a story was accordingly devised to
the effect that golden plates had been found buried near Palmyra, New York, containing a record
inscribed on them in unknown characters, which, when deciphered by the power of inspiration,
gave the history of the ten lost tribes of Israel in their wanderings through Asia into America,
where they had settled and flourished, and where, in due time, Christ came and preached the
Gospel to them, appointed his twelve Apostles, and was crucified here, nearly in the same manner
he had been in Jerusalem.  The record then pretended to give the history of the American Christians
for a few hundred years until the wickedness of the people called down the judgment of God
upon them, which resulted in their extermination.  Several nations from the Isthmus of Darien
to the northern extremity of the continent were engaged in continual warfare.  The culmination
of all this was the battle of Cumorah, fought many centuries ago near the present site of Palmyra,
between the Lamanites and the Nephites--the former being the heathen and the latter the Christians
of this continent.  In this battle, in which hundreds of thousands were slain, the Nephites
perished from the earth, except a remnant, who escaped to the southern country.  Among this
number was Mormon, a righteous man who was divinely directed to make a record of these important
events on plates of gold, and who buried them in the earth, to be discovered in future times.
'The Book of Mormon'--none other than the religious romance above mentioned--is the pretended
translation of the hieroglyphics said to have been inscribed on the golden plates.

"The account given of himself by the 'prophet' is of far different tenor from the one just
given.  While yet a youth he became greatly concerned in regard to his soul's salvation; and
being deeply agonized in spirit, he sought divine guidance.  While fervently engaged in supplication,
his mind was taken away from the surrounding objects and enwrapped in a heavenly vision, and
he saw two glorious personages similar in form and features and surrounded with a brilliant
light, outshining the sun at noonday.  He was then informed by these glorious personages that
all religious denominations were in error, and were not acknowledged of God as His church and
kingdom, and that he, Joseph, was expressly commanded not to go after them. At the same time,
he received a promise that the fulness of the Gospel should at some future time be known to him."

