 

Let us doubt the claims of this science brand. Without it. And affirm with the data supplied recorded
history and no dream, that neither beauty nor body strength and agility, or in courage and fortitude,
and clarity and elevation thoughts, today our lineage more noble and perfect types that displayed
and, as real people, make more than three thousand years. The man, therefore, has no any progress
in its own being, for so long.

The opposite is what you can or think it can be said when considering the sublimity mission of
some individuals of our species, happiness and met with the transcendence charitable works,
compared to which nothing is equal in the day. The firms gave top individuals and communities
from very ancient times, not be discerned they may have now or in the near future, something to overcome
them. I do not deny the possibility anything, I merely stated that I do not perceive, for example,
greater glory, nor things present or in the future, that of ancient Greece, which check the
foundation, creating the trace and forged mold of any further European culture to that of
a single city, Rome, which has dominion the best of the Orb, and with their laws and language
unifies and prepares it to receive with ease other higher element of civilization, and of
that peninsula where live, that to extend this civilization beyond the boundaries and known terms
until then, manages to discover new worlds.

I repeat, therefore, that men who did such great things are not inferior to those of the day.
Then in our being there has been progress. Yet progress is undeniable, if not us, in what is
outside us, although our power and accumulated inheritance. Napoleon, for instance, is not better
than Alexander the Great, but Napoleon has guns and other means of warfare that Alexander did not
have. Neither Kant nor Hegel worth as much as Aristotle but Aristotle did not possess the scientific
data twentieth of Kant and Hegel.

Fed is understood and in what sense and to what extent progress is undeniable. No progress in science
but in art there is no progress. If Pericles would be resurrected today turulato to hear the phonograph,
talking on the phone and see the electric poles, balloons, Railways and photography. Even a box
to fit a small dog matches to topple him the ground, dazed with awe and surprise, but it sure
would not find among all Paris hetairae a more discreet, distinguished and beautiful that Aspasia,
and you seem Magdalena a sad parody of the Parthenon and the Eiffel
Tower an ugly and monstrous freak.

I confess that, if brought together the finest lyrical poetry of great poets Pericles today
and could read and understand, was to find them superior to those of Pindar. Neat would explain why.
Suffice it that I recognize that in the lyric outbid the old. Not so in the rest. The same wealth
of knowledge and the itch to analyze things and look all around each object, remove grace,
lightness and sharpness style and make it heavy, confusing and vague. Pericles accustomed to the
speed of the narration Herodotus could not stand or the great historian Macaulay, who, if he
had continued history of England until now, have had to give the stamp hundreds volumes of the
Tauchnitz edition, and would have been necessary, even for an intelligent reader and regular,
the use of some years of life just to read and learn half Macaulay of what he says. Used also
to the conciseness Pericles in the telling of so many beautiful fables, legends and traditions of
their homeland, I'd bet a thousand to one that would not suffer with patience, without yawning
and without sleep, the ponderous and endless descriptions a novel
by Zola.

It is true that anyone will tell me to answer that Zola does not write
for me to read Pericles, but to read to the men of the day.

And as men of the day like many of his novels, Zola has great merit, and as I say, no evidence
against it.

My reply is clear. I do not want to infer or infer anything about the merits of the novels Zola.
Were written to please in the day, and this has been achieved. Is
it enough credit.

All I hope to demonstrate is the undisputed progress of science and the above discussed progress
of art. It is clear that Pericles is admire and like the phone, but also is clear or almost clear
that not admire or like almost any of our novels.

For even more evidence, we turn to other fine art: a sculpture. Nobody will deny that glorious character
who gave his name to his century and was so clear and delicate understanding like, remember
the Jupiter and Minerva of Phidias friend, and all the statues of our plazas, temples and tours
will seem less than medium. Now suppose that the resurrected Pericles cicerone serves as a sage
of the deepest in the day, very convinced of the incomparable superiority of everything today on all
the old, and very aware of the advances Science and brand new most ingenious inventions. This
leads to the Olympic wise Pericles to a cabinet or museum of wax figures and lets me shocked and stunned.
What have see Minerva and Jupiter, where gold, ivory and marble exterior only imitate what Nature
and even that incompletely and without all his hair and signals, as wax figures? Well say nothing
if the wise man winds up the figures, and as most of them are automated, are released to walk and
even open their mouths and greet the distinguished Greek Tourist. And still be the more the wonder
of it when his wise guidance touch certain springs, open windows
in belly and chest to the figures mentioned above and to lift them
gently and without any damage the brains out.

      The Athenian then exclaim,
    like the character in a celebrated zarzuela:

Today the advance science
that is an outrage.

Indeed, thanks to a skillful mechanics, aided by the wonderful chemistry and other disciplines,
in the interior of each figure starts to move the heart, blood flows by arteries and veins,
lungs and air takes with him a thousand operations, and, finally, and not tired, go up the brains
many atoms of phosphorus and other volatile essences are sneak in there like he owned the place,
several celulillas, and little time, as the Gusarapo, worms and other caterpillars, butterflies come,
Beatilla and mosquitoes, many varied flows thoughts and feelings,
good and evil, which can quickly become crimes or deeds, in moralizing
or subversive speeches, works of charity or rapes and murders.

Pericles then have to confess that this is exquisite and deep, as
he calls Mr. Reyles to his art.

What does not confess, which blindly deny, is that it is fine art such mischief.

And still we go from bad to worse in this matter of fine art, if the figures shows that the cicerone
Pericles are made for the study of internal diseases, and is within them how they form tumors, fistulas,
ulcers, growths and all sorts of pupae. The poor Pericles, perhaps wrongly imagined that the arts
serve to amuse, soothe and lift spirit, just get with this brand new art fair to be up and upset
your stomach, and force him to make a libation in honor of Aesculapius with Cyprus wine you had
on your last supper next to his beautiful Aspasia, which has been
preserved in the tomb, for twenty centuries, and that made you dream
a thousand divine beauties there.

Now apply to the pleasant literature of the statues which have said.

Easy is to get the following consequences:

That such literature should you remove the epithet enjoyable.

If it is not pleasant is not helpful either, because it upsets us and afflicts the poor showing, with
all disgusting and horrible details and does not offer any remedy.

That even if this literature is very scientific fashion, exquisite and deep, yet can deny that
it is well underway literature, but mere extravagance, and tends
not to amuse, but to teach, in order to be fulfilled better than novels,
with physiological lectures, pathological, histological and teratological.

And

those who sustain the progress of threatened rare literature, novels based on the fashion, assume,
not a decline in everything else, this would be less bad, but progress and growth horrible perversion
and corruption of the human, whose paint is thoroughly Case of the novels above.

If science had shown that evil is inevitable, which is explained by determinism vices and virtues,
imagination and faith schools should be dismissed as anachronistic and and that only we have
hope or on earth or in heaven, very dismal and evil Science had made progress, but progress would
end and we should respect him, and we should bow our heads and resign. All this science distressing
us teach, digging a heart in a fist, and full of fear and disgust, it would be nice entered
in scientific treatise, courses and epitomes, but in the novels often by people who has not won
a tassel at the universities, all could go Trabucador and although it came out, would not
novel either, but poorly digested hodgepodge of science, fantastic
accessible to all, and would stir interest only and not as a simple
art works and healthy, but our nerves overwrought like potions and
liniments pharmaceutical that make us see horrific visions and to
which we fans a perverse curiosity.

I feel that the ink is still a lot to say, but I can not help it,
and making point here, I leave for another day.

III

I had thought not to bother again readers of The Liberal flowing and meditating aesthetic issues
in relation to novels, but as I suffer from some ailment, before and today called cacohetes
scribendi graphomania call, had already written my third article on progress in the art of
the word, and I had not dared to send him to The Liberal. My intent was and is writing on the
subject as I come up and then reunite in a book, printing it very small number of copies. So,
now I see The Liberal an article in which my illustrious friend, Doña Emilia Pardo Bazán, seeks to
challenge what I said and even what I have said. Me not a little flattered that Dona Emilia
is used in this, but I will not pass because it gives me views that I have not delivered. I never
said I that the novels of Zola, Daudet, Goncourt, Tolstoy, Ibsen, etc., are bad. On the contrary,
I said that may be so good and so excellent, that the writing, the same donut Emilia, Pereda, Galdós,
Jacinto Octavio Picon, Armando Palacio Valdés and several others, without I exclude, will obrillas
insubstantial, and absolutely devoid of epidermal education and transcendence. But this would
be that Spain and the Spanish are decayed and even left hand of God, so that, just as there is
now Gonzalo de Cordoba, Polite, Pizarro and Cisneros, there is also Cervantes. And there will
be that there is an art exquisite and profound just invented out of Spain produced such wonders,
leaving bewildered and bowlegged, and moving to mimic the perpetrators of such wonders, to see
if bothered to find out the brand new procedure that make them giddy and the whole world with our
novels as you giddy them. I did not say neither more nor less than what I repeat now, albeit
heavy, but even if it is heavy, as Dona Emilia gives me the opportunity
to do so, I will continue my meditations aesthetic, inserting here
is my third article for fear that of exhausting the public remained
unpublished, and is as follows:

The only thing I am truly sorry and
that sometimes leads me to regret having made deal very complicated
issue is the multitude of aspects under which substantial amount and
extension therefore I have to give this writing.

Moreover, my conviction is ever stronger the more I think about it, but I believe useless or
of little importance explain and defend what my thinking is presented as true opinions against
me seem false and even absurd. I'm not excited about the national pride and singular, not affirm
nor deny, but I for cheap, to pave the way for the discussion, removing tripping medium, in French
and Russian novels of the day are much better than those in Spain are written. Ingenuity, inspiration,
and a joke, have perhaps migrated from Spain. I do not want deny it, I'm just sorry. What I
deny, and that is the question, is that fine progress as it progresses arts chemistry or surgery,
and the superiority of the novels French and Russian on our own, are that those are written
in the precepts of fine art and newly invented deep.

I will concede that in everything, even in the fine points, there is progress, as we technician
or call the office, but, well I admit, I recognize also that technical and progressive literature,
little importance compared with the essential it, in which there
is no progress.

Recapacítese well and see that at no time placed men in the level of the most vulgar and culture
medium was then, it has taken more special studies or more years of learning to be a poet or
novelist that exercise any other occupation. All men, for example, can speak and write, but
not all drive the awl and tirapié, and may not apply to it with zeal and perseverance. Hence,
in a sense, may well be argued that it is more difficult to make a shoe that compose a poem. And
it is still easier and requires less propaedeutic writing a novel for which, prosody, art meter
and rhyming dictionary care little or nothing. So conceived, without any surprise, the vast number
of novels that make up now English, French, Russian, Italian, German, Hungarian, Polish, in
short, almost all the languages ​​spoken and written in the various civilized countries of
the five parts of mondo. The office is easy to learn and the better instrument for making or
manufacture, or tongue or pen, is handled with less effort and more naturally, not because the
chisel or the brush but the spade or hoe, where something everyone educated type or write
novels. So the material cost is spent on writing them less and is more affordable to everyone
that spent on other duties. For three thousand pesetas bought sheets of paper, which, while
not smearing but one hand comfortably fit two novels not short dimensions.

Could it be that this same abundance of novels need to employ an exquisite art and deep to stand
out from all others which we write? I deny roundly. Good taste, the delicate aesthetic judgments,
if not in contradiction creates considerable confusion on this point. For anyone refined and
cultured, Prosper Mérimée and Theophilus Gauthier, for example, are best novelists that Eugene
Sue and Ponson du Terrail, and yet, and Colomba, or Captain Fracasse
have been the twentieth part of the favor of the public, sale and
the applause that The Mysteries of Paris, or the endless adventures
of Rocambole.

"This will consist in Sue and Ponson du Terrail use the fine art and deep Gauthier and Mérimée
ignored or that of the general public has a bad taste, is long overdue and still prefer the
coarse to fine? Or does it consist in the real fine art and depth has not come to be discovered,
only recently, when Mérimée and Gauthier were already dead and buried, and by virtue of the public
art have opened the eyes of minds to understand the good, and Zola, Daudet, Bourget, Ibsen and Tolstoy,
they have opened the springs and legitimate sources of inspiration to produce works that not
only pleasing in the day, but that already contain the germ, if not in flower, the sublime novel
future, compared with which Don Quixote is a work surface, epidermal inconsequential, without education
and pastime?

If things were like, fashion and would be fashionable. The right way, art infallible to write novels
would be found, and for the world should stay away from him, not mislead us or stay behind.

I warn you, however, that these novels, written with exquisite art and deep commends both Mr.
Reyles, but are read, admired and imitated by those who are fanatically Paris fashion, presumably
falling into oblivion, and even contempt, when fashion go and come another fad. It is possible that
then everything today is subtlety, novelty and depth, look flashy
and heavy false affectation.

The truth is, the most popular novels, which have been sold in the
world right recent years they have had in appearance at least, the
more influence on political events and social, not written in Paris
and the fashion in Paris, but putting in a certain and impetuous current
of opinion, leaving away by it, increasing its spirit and spreading
over its action on the human spirit.

Thus, novels, not of fine art and deep, but with little or no art, though written in a happy
moment and appropriate, have achieved more success, have had greater resonance, they imported more on social
changes in the great historical facts, that all this novelty as praised by Mr. Reyles.

Take for example of what I say Uncle Tom's Cabin, by Mrs. Beecher
Stowe, the which is then sold hundreds of thousands of copies, resulting
in all languages, perhaps inflamed abolitionist sentiments and went
for something in causes of the terrible Civil War.

It is, therefore, not deep and exquisite art, or the subtle and unprecedented teaching peregrina truths,
nor more than inspiration, and the refinement of the latest fashions from Paris, nor the delicacy of
style, and other rare pieces of literature, giving the palm and laurel wreath an author of
novels, is to reach a timely manner and without fear of being dragged current.

Further evidence of the truth itself gives us a novel of Mr. Bellamy,
Anglo-American citizen also, a novel which sold nearly four hundred
thousand copies, a little to see the public.

The novel was what we call a socialist or communist utopia. Imagined the author in the not too
distant future. The social revolution had already been done. The new system regular and going
nicely. The whole world had become a real city of Cockaigne, and the human race eat, drink,
be entertained and worked little, without haste or misery.

The novel Mr. Bellamy came on time and it owes its success. Well it could be said so with much
less reason to say that Voltaire said blinds Montesquien Letters: These letters blinds so
easy to compose! ¡...!

I do not intend to lower or praise here the merits of French and Russian
novels, which commends Mr. Reyles, or these other American novels
that I have mentioned.

I say only that they have been timely, and is this a great achievement. Also, I when I write novels,
I try to be timely, and if I'm not, it's because you miss the opportunity. But what does the
opportunity a fine art and newly invented deep with our novels make you feel appropriate men of our
time more deeply than it did with other appropriate novels others feel the public of past
centuries in which they lived? This is the farce I do not admit and that seduced Mr. Reyles. This
is the hablerie and (let me the expression) the Parisian blague, why, is that with all due respect,
I think is also somewhat discreet and eloquent seduced my friend Dona Emilia Pardo Bazan, who
still write better than they write and compose original works and spontaneous, if left less influenced
by such blague.

La blague up point if further argues that the novel of the day should be crammed education, all
documents should be human and contain more profound doctrine that of books intended to teach and not
to delight. Would be curious if anyone studies history in Alexandre Dumas, geology and cosmography
in Jules Verne, Zola sociology, in psychology Bourget, and internal pathology in several other novelists.

Course,
who writes a novel, and takes for items or materials which write cases of ordinary life and ordinary
observed by him, you can also take doctrines, beliefs, hopes, dreams, religious and metaphysical
ideas, and resolution everything fits in the human mind and shakes. But taking all this as elements
of Art is not appropriate in my view, that strives to be didactic, because they expose you to
teach less and worse than what you teach the poorest of the manuals and go back on his vocation
as an artist, without creating the beauty and aesthetic delight without producing the vain efforts
of patenting and unprecedented disclose truths.

It is noteworthy, finally, that it contain the science in art, far from progress in a way no turning
back. Science has broadened so much that does not fit the mold artistic even though the mold and also
widen to become deformed, as in the novel, where an author can flow
freely over all things and many more.

However, a perfect work of literary art can not but confined within certain terms. What put them
off to have some monstrous impertinence. And in this meaning I will not deny that a novel therapy
can be taught, political economy, theology mystical metallurgy or as desired.

If it is fashionable stuff in all these novels, novels like fashion while duration, such is
the power of fashion, but beyond it, no human being who suffers the
novel teacher.

The sure to please all ages and will always be read and celebrated, will be the concerned only to
create beauty, and with elements of common life, and taken to elements ideas, doctrines and beliefs that
drive the author's mind and the minds of others men. Even so, it's enclosed in a novel or
a poem to know, not didactic purpose, but with aesthetic, former
lead us tremendous advantage.

Homer in the Iliad was able to As in his time was known and not a little of what was in germ
and in the future should be known or invented. And the Divine Comedy of Dante, is well less
comprehensive science. I admire much to Dante, but I can not believe they are only mentioned in
his poem theologies and philosophies that in more detail, clarity,
substance and can be studied in order San Anselmo, San Bernardo, Peter
Lombard, St. Bonaventure, St. Thomas Aquinas and other Doctors of
the Middle Ages.

So if I think of Dante, what do you think of Zola and what I believe Zola who can teach me,
not learn best in any encyclopedic manual: the Bouillet, for example?

And just what was said, because it seems like a joke and laugh the evidence and arguments adduced
to hold true as common sense and so overt.
 And mind the pious people, yet earlier this
century, was made in that likeness a singular miracle. All year on September 8, the day of
the Nativity of the Virgin Our Lady, a droplet red like blood, flowing from his wound.
 

The respect and even fear-inspiring Alhedín Count, suffered little one, soon for anger, and skilled
and happy in sets and brawls, not consent that crept Dona Beatriz, speaking of her affair with the Count.

Beatriz
was not dealing with women in society, which had not complied with
the Count and that had suggested to her.

And Rosita wanted so much to the Count, for anything that caused him the grief of giving by
Beatriz understood that he suspected or knew that, in his view, wrong.

Doña Beatriz, therefore, could imagine, or imagined, without doubt, that no one suspected it.

Yields
and the deference that was the object could be attributed to its merit, and that no suitors approached
him in war and conquest, to its reputation had them at bay.

For, then, all summer and until the beginning of October, when it occurred important cases, soon
have to refer, might well Dona Beatriz, none experienced chastened or even slander of Madrid,
to live in peace and concerned that no one accused her of being the
girlfriend of the Count, and Don Braulio was not ridiculous as a result
of having been so kind and so accommodating to her.

At this point I feel a certain itch to recite and to moralize, to
my story deserves to be among the specimens.

Overshoot, however, I hesitate even to indicate the target against which I must address.

"Declamaré murmuring against society? I dare not, without regard me as unfair. Who know yet what
actually happened? But appearances were against Dona Beatriz.

Declamaré "against it? What if he was innocent? What if appearances were deceptive? What if
she, still ignorant of life, did not notice that, inadvertently, perhaps undeservedly, did
fuel the gossip?

It would, finally, sick cruel that I crashed against the good Don
Braulio, who was so honest, so noble, so great, and whose only fault,
if fault was, arose from the tender love and indulgence well thought
that he looked at his wife.

Best, therefore, is that we refrain from declaiming and moralizing,
waiting to see clear what comes out of this.

For now, we can say is that the reputation of Dona Beatriz was lost; grave evil, but not entirely
hopeless, as it was a slander that is suspicious or stated, given the assumption that had no foundation.

Truth
is that to remedy the evil was necessary and that patients knew what first terrible condition
for the lover Don Braulio, who, haunted by his vague and melancholy
fancies, did not notice anything was actually happening around own,
and whose heart was overwhelmed both sensed only loss of the love
of Beatrice there did not seem to have strength enough to endure the
rude shock of certainty and carrying out his hunch.

XIII

I confess, with characteristic candor that is me, I've been tempted to paint the Conde de Alhedín
as a seductive evil, demonic and profound in its schemes and plans
war.

"In this way - I told myself when these things were happening and I was not even in the secret
- if Dona Beatriz has indeed been seduced, his fall will have some excuse, and, if it has been,
its success will be more glorious and memorable. "

Nothing, however, that disgusts me more than lying. Not even like to appeal to her to write a story.
And as the Count of Alhedín exists in reality and I know him and
treatment, it makes me guilty about presenting different than it is,
even wrapping in the veil of a pseudonym.

The Count of Alhedín, to the credit of the truth, nothing more than a good boy, if we the judge
with the relaxed criteria used in the world.

The Count of Alhedín is so far from being a Don Juan Tenorio as far heaven on earth. Has never
employed deceit and violence against unmarried or married.

I also assured that, if it was self-examination, however severe and scrupulous was before the era
of our history, would never come to persuade himself that he had seducing any woman.

Finding easy and abundant harvest of laurels between the seductive and seduced and had no Count
the bad idea to lose to any candid and innocent maiden, or to disturb the holy peace of a
marriage as well-matched model, exemplary and loving.

If in some cases recognizing the Earl had been mutual seduction, in the most, with notable comfort
of his mind and no prejudice to his vanity short, the Count did not see his own person but to
the suffering, that is, to the truly seduced.

Not one of his conquests had until then hints of tragic character. No Conde accused of having
started from the front one the bright halo of holiness and purity.

There was no woman who had fallen for him a sacred pedestal where
there been before, but never touch the mud of the earth, without in
the least tarnish the clear whiteness of the hem of her robe.

Or the Count was one of many, and not first in a series more or less long and varied, or, if
such had been the first the devil himself had cleared before the
roads so smooth and maliciously, that could be fed give and forfeit
what he had to lose, and only Condesito his heart to conscience and
a young philosopher in the fable, for yielding to the specious argument
fragility These verses state:

Take it for his life, and consider
someone else to eat if you do not want.

When I stop to think about a heroic virtue in a thought occurs to me that I am truly sorry enough.

True,
there are still, and will continue to secure civil and international wars, revolutions violent,
pests, diseases and a host of other plagues that God is willing and able to prove and exercise
our patience. True that we are all doomed to die, and not bad guy death, especially when viewed
from the summit of life, in full enjoyment of the youth and vigor of our spring healthy, but
in normal circumstances in life bourgeois political order and today lives, it is difficult
if not impossible, to appear or give in any case subject of heroism, of extraordinary suffering,
of Fortitude sublime or otherwise under great and amazing, not to appear or be given as a reason
or occasion in another subject or several, a case of vice or malice or ferocity not least out
of all reasonable time. For there to be a regular there must needs be Carthaginians to have wise
quiet drink hemlock judges must needs be wicked who hate their discretions and wisdom to convict
him drink, and to have martyrs who leave skin or to let roast simmered in a gridiron must needs
be so hardened tyrants and heinous crimes, being ordered around skinning
and roasting they did not lend to worship idols or other nonsense
like that.

Now I do not know if fortunately or unfortunately, but it's true that evil and mischievous superlative
degree and extreme as they become more rare each day, and therefore the rough path of virtue and
macadamized paving will, without those who have under in that grade
achieved almost never occasion to wear it are forced to keep dormant
in the depths of their hearts.

I would not, therefore, alter the truth of my story and go against this law of human progress
becoming a monster Alhedín Count.

Let's stick to the truth.

The Condesito, as I said already, was a great guy, light, fun friend, very tempted to laugh,
but better than bread.

His mother, the Dowager Countess, idolized him and pampered him forever, but the pampering, far
to pervert the good natures, make them better and sweeter the gall to make syrup.

For Condesito was easy to be good. Unenviable. All smiled. We have said that Hard had fifteen thousand
of income, which was of good family and was in perfect health. There was no physical exercise
that did not shine, great rider, accurate pistol shooter, agile and
skillful in fencing and valsador airy and graceful.

His jokes were laughed at, his discreteos concluded. Everyone believed him capable of the most
serious business if he could someday be used them their time and abilities.

Earl lived with his mother, but in a huge mansion, which enjoyed full independence. So I got friends
and visitors of various kinds without his mother, or by chance, had to stumble and give them
understood anything.

The Countess, however, not unaware of the frivolous and rather dissipated life of his son.
La Condesa she longed to leave her, to marry now, and that, done everything a parent, mixed in the
politics of his country and was a statesman.

The Countess was a lady in every sense of the word and is perfectly
suited old.

Was closer to fifty than forty, while retaining more than a few remnants of once admired her beauty.
He dressed in severe elegance and remarkable simplicity. Was without affectation or religious
fanaticism. And he was very much against what they call the spirit century, but regretted that
the Spanish aristocracy lacked class spirit and was, therefore, unable to be counted as a political
element, though, considered isolation, not enough worth less individuals that belong to it
many of those who clamber to the highest positions and rule and govern,
starting from the humblest parts of the social sphere.

Not so disunited Countess walked with the times we live in, because clearly perceived that
the invasion and rise of commoners came from far behind clever and it was not the day. The
aristocracy, she thought, was slumbering in a golden bondage centuries, and that content or
resigned with vain distinctions aulic, leaving the influence and control to Cisneros, the
Pérez and Vázquez, being Spain a democracy monkish, and winning now
be mesocracia something of a layman.

La Condesa, at least, not that we go out accountable for their judgments,
and explained, a synthetic way, the history of his homeland.

It was from here that, in pure noble and ancient hatred of democracy, the Countess was almost
liberal and progressive.

Preferred to valid domain of a bully, whom the monarch pulled out
of nowhere, this command that classes called conservative, something
which came through it, although mixed with unstable imitation of the
aristocracy of good law and the furious barrage of unjustified improvised
notables.

In sum, and this is what you will, the Countess wanted her son to not consume the youth all in courtship
and entertainment, but that it should be formal and pro man, and
added to the new luster inherited nobility and coats of arms with
the acquired talent and other personal items.

We know that the Earl had spent the summer without leaving Madrid. The countess had not gone either.

We
are in the month of October.

Almost all the elegant ladies who went to Biarritz, a Spa and other points, and had made a visit
to Paris, were already back from the summer expedition. They came, as was natural, full of finery and
workmanship of Worth, the Ferrière, Alexandre and other artists;
gala they were about to wear during the winter.

Among these ladies expeditionary and reinstalled and near their dollars are telling the cute
Adela Condesito premium.

He was goodness personified, without bordering on stupid, and was also sole heir, hoping to be
richer than its cousin when they inherit. The widowed Countess she
wanted to marry her son.

Had tried several times to induce the claim. He had always been in vain.

Now, three or four days after arriving Adela, Countess called one morning to his son to his room,
between eleven and one before lunch, and took with him the next important conference.

XIV

      After the usual affectionate greetings and a brief preamble on trivial
matters, Mother and son sitting in comfortable chairs and facing it
from him, the Countess went on as follows:

- Well you know, Ricardo
mine, that I've been lenient with you.

So I lost all moral force, and only if I am with authority and courage to give advice.

- The kindness of you to me can not and should diminish the respect
and veneration I look at you, mother - said Ricardo -.

And to advise me not to send you have authority, and must have value. I will obey you if you are
in my power to obey.

- I do not intend to obey me, but I listen and let yourself be persuaded by my arguments. It's
a shame to waste your time as any light-headed lad, without dedicating yourself to anything seriously.
To a certain age is forgivable that way of life, but now you're older and you ought to serve
your home and show your worth ... Why do not you choose MP? Why do not interrogate on your own
opinions, you forge your political persuasion, you trace your line of conduct and get into
public life? Are you going to grow old,

In cynical and despicable being single

as he said, perhaps fed up sharply, the austere and satirical poet, doing nothing but woo light
women? Why do not you marry a good woman, your class, and you form a family?

This barrage of questions answered with plenty of rest the Condesito:

- All the excitement of you, dear mother, are so good, I would without hesitation the if it were
up to me to follow. Unfortunately, this does not depend on me. To be a deputy, it is important
something to be proposed, and I all I propose. I declare yourself: mind a political opinions
and draw a line of conduct. But in vain I ask myself: I do not know what I dread what I believe.
Almost all parties seem to me well and I look bad. I do not know what join. Do I have to invent
me a new party when there are so many? Furthermore, it is not so easy to invent that game. For
their faith, just occurs to me another article of faith that constitutional decision of the year
1812, that all Spanish are fair and beneficial. Otherwise I do not care. I love freedom as a
means, and progress as an end but I love in a vague and lofty and comprehensive, which provides in
practice a thousand interpretations. So on the one hand amoldaría me almost every game means
accepting its principles, and on the other side would be unruly or undisciplined in every game,
because its leading figures I am not happy. In short: I notice that I lack a vocation for politics.
I am most purpose for contemplation to action. Believe me, I would obnoxiously; desluciría
me if I metiese a republic. Why do we have to be so heavy all actors drama, which lasts forever
without ever reaching the end? Is it not enough that a convicted to be a spectator? Look, mother,
I'm tired of attending this drama, that never ends which is always the same, where tangles of entanglements,
changing decorations, and entry and exit of people, almost all do wrong, and in which there is
no beginning and no argument purpose, nor word nor thought. Imagine yourself, for if I get
tired of being a mere spectator, spectator inattentive and distracted, how I tired if you complain
a role and trying to represent. Undeceive you: politics is a tedious job, which only must exercise
those without money or position, and need to acquire them, but I, I have my flow, I can and
should be more useful to my country and myself watching this flow, and improving and increasing public
wealth, not adding one more individual to the number disproportionate and those who are fighting
the portfolios, the full powers and general directions. I'm so skeptical, you miss to believe
in the beliefs of others. It seems to me that most consistent are often the least sincere,
that they are consistent by dint of being stubborn. Adopt an opinion, as they could have adopted
another, without faith and charity, and and are always for to say that they do their role, and
because the end is easier to play a role I say the same thing, whatever they may be circumstances,
which no other paper which say many different things, depending on amount may from time to
time not only to the private good or singular, but the public good. With this reflection I
am inclined to forgive the apostasy; but as my mind is a perpetual contradiction, reflect something
else and then condemn hard on apostates and fickle.

The suspect concerned and rogues. Misgivings no change in good faith, but because they want
to be on top and make a killing. In short, what talk more? I am unable to politics. Easier it
would give me a philosopher, a naturalist or poet. Is not it better, however, take care of
my finances in holy peace, and try to be a good citizen, useful and active member of the social
body, and a nice gentleman and entertaining? Now that there is little fool or rascal is not
a wise goal or governor of the town or a major character, now, that all men are forever throwing speeches
scientific societies, in clubs, assemblies and other light sources, is not should be some who
go to salons for the poor women are not left alone, with no one to talk and entertain a little?
You see if I have reason to follow away from politics. As for the other council capital from
you, I have nothing to object. In fact, I married, but I do not want to marry to get married.
To get that fearful union, that only death breaks, I find women whom you trust and love, and
whose spirit is open to me and show me that can be durable, strong, holy, intimate communion
with him. Let you find that woman and I will point married.

- Sorry to tell you, Richard - said the Countess - that everything you're saying is heap of sophistry
and extravagance. If I indeed, and certainly not I, that Politics is only a means to thrive
in most of those engaged in it, more blame even the selfish who will not intervene in politics because
they are doing quite well. Still must presume that the materially seeking is also seeking personal
gain applause, glory, and feel moved by the desire to do good to everyone, after all is not
incompatible with his singular good, but the lazy, cold-hearted, the unbeliever, who, not
and because it does not need to bother thrive, because it is not
involved in anything, and do not know rather than censor everything,
and says a thousand wrongs and no remedy to one of the latter, I say,
not no soul, the generous and benevolent that is, that lends itself
to assume anything good.

The latter is worse and more despicable than the politicians interested hustler assets. Pursued;
works to end, and it's worth, and perhaps does good general, or try
to do, at the expense of fatigue and danger, when it seeks also, as
is lawful and natural, his own aggrandizement and profit.

What ancient hero, what a warrior, what a great political story that extols the has been so
absurdly selfless as it must be to be free of your invective? So much for politics. As for your
marriage, I will not deny you're right women want to own one with
the garments of which you speak, but why do not you look?

Has it happened to pass before your eyes? Did you open your mind to yours and has show that
deserves to enter into intimate communion with him, without you even
take the job to knock on the door?

Are you going to find anything that treasure you need among the adventurous gallant with the ladies,
among whom married bad fall in love?

- Mother, I now intend to fall in love or any adventure, any gallant lady, to any unhappily
married. If you have such news, you are misinformed.

- Well then, why do not you go to your cousin Adela? It seems that the sky goes for you. It's
so good, it's so quiet in the midst of his innocence!

Speaking in confidence ... believe it very likely to fall in love with you. I'm sure you would
love.

- Mother's love maybe blind you, but although it tend to love, how I I send my heart to love
you? I do not love, without love I will not marry any woman.

- You love, I know, which can not be your wife, for that is another - he finally said the Countess,
can not suffer further transgressions of his child.

- I've told you I do not love any woman now married.

- I heard you are in relationship with the wife of a clerk in the Treasury, with a adventurer who goes
home to the Countess of San Teódulo.

- Mother, who may have told lies.

Neither I am in relations with that woman or that woman is an adventurer.

Caro would cost any man who dared to qualify such in my presence.

- You yourself tell what. The vehemence with which the test defend me even more than love. Such
Once the woman has bewitched.

The thing is worse than I suspected. It is not a fad, it is a passion.

- If the respect and friendship are passions, I'm passionate about it, I confess. As same, my
mother, I beseech you that belies my love affair with this woman,
and does not contribute to defame and make perhaps the unhappiness
of her husband, who is an excellent man. If the unfortunate were to
know what, so in spite of myself and so without foundation, tells
us slander, would die of grief. Do not ever allow heaven!

The Countess
did not dare to continue the conversation, seeing how excited her
son was setting and the vehemence with which he spoke in favor of
Dona Beatriz.

There in the depths of his soul, the Countess was grieved
much, imagining that his son had no relations vulgar, immoral pastime,
but without consequences, but a vivid passion. Also thought that the
occasion was less favorable than ever to induce his son to devoted
to politics and his cousin, Adela, and very upset, took another twist
to the conversation, waiting for better days.

XV

The conversation
he had with his mother put the Count in a bad mood Alhedín against
foul-mouthed, insolent gossip that were being disseminated all over
his affair with Donna Beatriz, but why not in future be sought more
cautious and looked to avoid giving occasion and those foundations
gossip.

The Condesito had acquired such a habit of going every evening
to the gathering of San Teodulo, which would be missing anything before
letting go. Had acquired the same habit Dona Beatriz. Thus the journal
were in the presence of many wicked men, Friends teased and very likely
to explain everything by the uglier side. 

None of this, how beautiful it was and so was the view, read or estimate the two monsoon how deep
respect for Don Sabas had only become a priest of the parish and man of unquestionable competence
as soon as they reached them.

My temper, in the scale of the sensible, not even reached the level of the innumerable as for "feel
natural" need to see reproduced on canvas and embellished by fantasy the painter and resources
of the palette, and yet, I read something I had never read in nature every time I looked in the
light of the impressions of Don Sabas perched on the tops of the mountains. And it was much
appreciated and even admired for me this miracle cure Tablanca poor; miracle that had never been
to me no pictures, no books or speeches.

On the last occasion for those coming home the two, I surrendered, and hastily, and it so fresh
and so lively as if it had not left the place, told me he had seen
everything me until then it was like to see nothing and had to do
something that I had promised.

- What you want when you want - I
answered trembling, for its commitment to acquiring with the man for
whom gambling excursions were a thing to me out of joint.

- Well,
my account is the case - he replied - and there is no more to say.

VIII

My visits to the village thorough examination alone and I made my own, leaving appear in it as
the careless, to surprise the best in their intimacy. Knowing "Sight" to your neighborhood
at Mass the previous Sunday, I had noticed very strongly monotonous uniformity "cut", so to
speak, and even clothing. All the boys used the 'lastic' red and green all the old, and all women
had the "blanket" or similar color shawl and similarly crossed over his chest and kidneys; everywhere
and all kinds abounded blond and the curved line, not without grace, with a tendency the square to
the shoulders, everyone walked, talked and moved with the same calm, and in all faces, old
and young, you could see the same expression of goodness in some tinge of fright, as if the continuing
vision of the great masses in whose shadow they live those people, the had frightened and suspense.
I did not have one iota to rectify these impressions, received at a glance that the whole neighborhood,
when I tried studied in further detail on the contrary, resultóme that the monotony of their
way and clothing to be well confirmed by, had to add another monotony less salient by the
way: that of their rooms. All Tablanca houses, with very rare exceptions, I found the same plane
built by: the ground floor, for livestock stables sheep and goats, on the floor, family room and
the kitchen ceiling without the roof, and above the loft, bounded by a vertical board on the edge
corresponding to kitchen, forming with the three remaining walls what might be called "smoke
box." Outdoor accessory to a block and a cattle barn, and stuck to her or the house, an orchard very
small.

Just as in the kitchen of my uncle spoke all over the place for young and old, old and young.
As a characteristic of that language, such as jacks and Hs oes as
esu end gratia "jermosu" and "jormigueru" with beautiful mound.

But as so melodic and rhythmic cadence is giving the sentence, which are not the rough a word
is unpleasant to the ear: on the contrary, and have expressions and idioms of taste so signally
classic, that this and the rhythmic chant that accompany them, listening a conversation between
those mountaineers, came to my mind the "music" of our old romances.

It is also very noteworthy that none of these peculiarities in the way of being and expression,
undergoes alteration visible by changing places or customs. It's very common there to migrate
during the summer the men servants to the provinces as distant as
those of Aragon to hold the office of sawing wood, or those of Castile,
or work implements chestnuts, to exchange for wheat or cash.

I spoke with these men, newcomers the valley after many months away from him, and did not find the
slightest difference that distinguished in dress or speech, or how to conduct themselves at
all, its other neighbors; nor have I found after looking for her to try, very noticeable signs
that interest them outside their homes, rather than the issue that brings them, as if they only
had eyes heart to see and feel the native homeland.

The race is as healthy and beautiful I have ever known in Spain, and I think they are a prominent
part it continued fitness of the mountain, the abundance of milk and the integrity of customs public
and domestic. I learned with astonishment that there was no place in a tavern, and that Property
of the City, who sold the recipe and came to almost every consumer
I drink at home, from where it was, by force of habit, which was very
poorly regarded the man who showed instincts' bartenders, "and much
worse that was carried away from them, albeit rarely.

Not so stunned me the news that there was scarce a lot of money, to be a common lineage shortage everywhere,
but I thought it was of note that of which, however, were common fruits of the earth, as among primitive
peoples; and so it is important that services are paid with a half dozen or panicles a miller
chestnut. What is not in that valley are potatoes, but instead, abundant harvest of promise in
the valley of my paternal grandmother and upstream Nansa, where there is no maize, which is the
main crop Tablanca, so these two valleys, separated by four hours away at a good walk, are in frequent
treatment to change those important fruits of the earth.

Almost all men are Abarquero Tablanca, some of which, while being farmers, industries that make
a trade. They camp in the summer, in the bush in teams of eight to ten, cut wood, prepared in
the rough sandals pairs, and so them down to the village, where, after it cured, they concluded
just a little. In this task I found some of them occupied, and seeing me enthralled narrow
adze handle overalls and long shear, or removed by curette curly chips from deep and intricate
the Almadreña, or "painting", the tune and, at knifepoint on artificial patina dried colostrum
fire.

Others are more carpenters, and also collects and prepared in the bush timber stands and "canes"
(poles) of horses, or farm implements which are then refined and topped down.

Another peculiarity of those people buried among the highest mountains of the Andes: called "the
Mountain" to the flat land in the valleys of the coast, and "mountain" to its inhabitants.

One of the first people I got "the talk" on that occasion, was a man that was very original.
I found him picking edges of the floor and closing the gap with them a 'morio' which had collapsed
there. He worked with great deliberation, and was pushing a lot, without removing the pipe
from his mouth, every effort he made, because it was old.

He greeted me very smiling at me beside him, and I even called my name, "Don Marcelo."

Enough my quality of "sir" and a stranger to earn those honors a person of Tablanca, where are
all the same courtesy, but I was also nephew of Don Celso, son "of the late Don Juan Antonio"
blood Bejos Ruiz, of the noble substance of Tablanca, the "house" "...», going up there, the Pharaohs
of there, something indisputable, prestigious and respected per se and as of divine right, but
not the authoritarian manner despotic feudal traditions, but to the
patriarchal and llanota of biblical times.

No wonder, then, should not miss me, view things from this side, the warm welcome I excused
the man morio.

Was "amañandu aqueyu" because he was in face view "in Abertal."

Finances were not his, 'As I could understand, "nor the land nor any fence, but had seen a day removed
the first song of the middle, then two of the "apareaos" with him,
and then "other of arrimaus to eyus "and finally, he had said," to
the first celleriscas to come, or the first response to jocique up
a little lick pa verdinis Estus is the moriu esborrega around here.

" And so it happened. Three days was the open gap without being seen by the owner farm and
a further four 'Pedric "he fruitlessly for him to take up before it biting beasts to that gate and
ended up with the "poverty" of the fence ... until passing the "moriu" weeks in that state "bichornosu
'he had resolved to close the gap. Why was this "one", and I could not help it. Not in all cases
less than that the interest that was taken by the alien, but she always gave in his face and
got into big care carelessness of others. I knew him when I had come to Tablanca and life I had
done since then. She loved me attached to the land and the house of my grandparents. Chisco
was a good companion to walk where I walked with him Pito also Salces, but not as "amañau" as the
other "pa the AUTU of rozasi with finus gentlemen." If Chisco out of Tablanca as was Robacio, there
is nothing to ask. Still yet, faithful, honest and serving workers as it was and where he served,
no parent of that place was in "josticia of law ", close the door of his house. Then there
were those who, if not properly closed, either is the opening of goodwill. Topics men. The girl
was nice, and some goods had inherit in their day, but was not "to each Callejues regolver" a
good man flow was a "per with himself." Well she knew him, so looking at Chisco with good eyes,
but it was a very different looking from his father, and he understood. The mother was on the
road different than her husband, and snuggled closer to those of the daughter ... In addition
and settlement, and what Don Celso fix, if the thing was good for everyone. But what "amejao" my
father I found it! She had known him a little more than "mozucu" because Don John Antonio I would,
if alive, at the foot of ten years. He had left the place without having Hair beard yet, then
again, "mozallón arroganti Jechu a" but "come out here and Aya, as he says otru that. " "We pulled
it mundanu Muchu Jacia had big bucks apañau through the land of God and the woman who waited to
marry him. Had become to be alone "the mayoralgu" he never wanted to destroy out of Tablanca.
"Although it was not mujeriegu of by suyu ", loneliness and other penalties had been forced
to marry well. Married Well, that yes, "Lifetime Bejo Rock!" with the best of Caórnica, home
of the Pine: Dona Candida Sanchez del Pinar. It seemed I was seeing, so arrogantona and so ...
and then involved with their softness ... But God had not wanted things happen from there,
and today a son, and tomorrow another, had been the three who had been taking, and finally
it worth a Potosi pure gold, and with it the light and joy of the house, which fenecería "Tomorrow
or the otru" with the poor Don Celso, who had been about to die. And deceased Ruiz de Bejos latter,
and in closing the house or moving to unknown owners, what Tablanca would not live for his,
no one came over in the valley as old as the same river that crossed? So he was glad both of
my coming. Permission might well be of God. Because if I take attachment to the land, what
better owner for the house, no more pompous Lord for the entire valley, when Don Celso missing?
Ah, how happy he is to I was cheering! For now, there had to serve him in whatever he wanted
to send ... Cucón Nardo, the "TARUMBA" if it wanted more plain and familiar, because it was called
the mote, did not know why, but it was the truth that offended him ... Anyway, was closed gap
...

That was when he joined the TARUMBA all, although still somewhat bent kidney and fairly wide apart,
and faced me. His talk had lasted as long as their work and I had not done more than look
at him and hear him. He removed his pipe from his mouth after rubbing both hands against his
pants, Smote face down on the thumbnail on the left and taught me a smile full of teeth chipped
box. It was an old man's face placid and very gray hair matted, somewhat reedy voice and very hard
to "hinge", ie, awkward their every move. For a man as careful as that of the estate of others,
I felt very well looked after itself had in view. I say this by the shabbiness and filth his
whole person, which were very large ... Still, it was interesting
and very nice the old man.

I talked to him a good while yet, because I entertained a lot of their conversation picturesque
and I finally asked about the doctor's house.

- Sail there - I said turning around to the right hand and pointing to "Lord a building more
than the current rate in the village -. Two is Zanchetta in it.

- And Don Pedro Nolasco? - Ask later.

- Sailing to the other manu - he answered, pointing with his opposite -. Above tejau of the
first to tend orchards, güertu, looms the Aleru vencíu and detraseru
jastialón of eya, with its balconies with fierru.

In this coming toward us from the top of the site, whose homes, like
those of all mountain areas, have no rhyme or reason to each other,
a girl of good picture, with a highly polished copper cauldron on
his head, and a clay pitcher in each hand.

The TARUMBA, after meeting her, he winked at me, turned back and
told me while carrying on snuff his pipe

- That's Tanasi.

- Who
is Tanasi? - I asked myself.

- The eldest daughter of Toperu - he
answered.

- Who is the Toperu? - He inquired.

- Pos is the father
of Tanasi ... Come the monsoon Chiscu courting.

- Aha - I cried watching
her carefully, because time was passing in front us.

The monsoon, which had assumed something of what we were discussing
the TARUMBA and I became very red and smiled, lowering her eyes to
give us good morning.

Heart praised the good taste Chisco, and I explained well the molehill.

- Well, what the hell you want for your daughter? - Asked TARUMBA.

- One such Pepazus - I said it -.

A mozallón as a cajigu, which removes two hazas of a cave, eats cuatru
Cavone, and unless the pump unless it tenemus moriu ahead.

You say you have the Toperu this hobby, not because I am able to
juralu that as Nah, you, sir Don Marcelu, can ponder me and what I
will or that come in these canteens?

Putting up at the doctor's house, who wished to pay his visit that
day, despedíme the TARUMBA, but it, cutting by half the dismissal,
she said she "gypsy he was also because both houses were full, and
his doctor, just opposite, and cast to walk beside me.

We spent an alley with many Bardales, and lead to a square green land and contoured for the most
part died with ivy and elders, said my companion, pointing to the
left and bottom of a bag that was there for two enclosures, one of
'busquizal "(thick bush) and a crumbling wall between weeds:

- This
is my home.

And turning to the opposite side, he added, while pointing to another
that closed the square there:

- And this is the méicu.

The house snuggled TARUMBA the wall on one side of ruin, and there was with him at pains and
losses and the harnesses from the owner. With these thoughts in his head, looked at TARUMBA without
saying anything, but he must have read it to me in the face that
I put, because I said right away:

- No espanti of EYU, because it's
metal or wood.

I stayed and women, not because of the salt beds and the hijus, among Casaus and ausentis, it mesmu
that if any; and I do not reach the pa ná tiempu with the work they give me the ajenus beware ...
Because, believe me Nah, you, sir Marcelu Don, what happened to me has vistu moriu Nah, you
raise, going on here with a thousand and five hundred to ca time of day and nochi, and if not
by the Tarumbu juera, Nah, you don believe me Marcelu, believe me tomi Nah, you and not to emponderancia:
if the Tarumbu juera, the goal of Tablanca vecindariu of callejonis Estus she would have been
devoured by the swarm and cuerus vivus.

Well keep me even putting it in doubt, I left him very affable, and I went to the doctor's house,
which was two steps.

IX

Since he had known little more than a glance, at my uncle, I felt a great desire to take a
paragraph to my taste Tablanca's physician, because it seemed to me at that youth had more 'quarry'
which is in the usual type and flow of men their age and circumstances. And the quarry was
the first clearings, at ground level, as they say.

As I had been closer to home, came out to meet up with a doublet portal home, little more than
summer, despite the cool winter running environment, but with good
coats and plump white flesh that stuck out in hives and gathered cuffs
of her nightgown and above the slight neck jacket.

 Raised with the utmost devotion, shy and quiet, without a care in costumes and
headgear, fashion and without any self-assurance in his manner and conversation, the marquise was
declared sick unjustly stupid and ugly. It was neither the one nor the other. Do not be ashamed,
but it could boast who were to have it for you. And verily was then in this town and court of
Madrid, quite a few ladies of high crest, whose talents and whose beauty were much lower than
those of the marquise, but completed with the carefree lack or scarcity of such high qualities
and great passion instilled a thousand were heroines amorous adventures.

Marriage, a Christian considered assumes no love story, however sensitive and clean it. It
is rather a contract, purified, sanctified and sanctioned by religion, whose primary purpose is
the foundation of families, children education and conservation lineages. So fulfill a duty to
marry and enter religion. This proves that can the righteous and pious person to serve God in
any state. Well understood Don Jacinto. Worthy of his family and the family arranged for the wedding
marquise both. Hardly saw them and barely spoke three or four times, enough to recognize there
was no reason for them to be repugnant to each other, but on the contrary, mutual satisfaction, the
smugness of having to consort with a person of noble presence and full belief in the immaculate
reputation of that person, all coincided with the convenience of interests and views which were in
the projected marriage, whose concerts intervened more than anyone the father Athanasius.

In sum, Don Jacinto marquise married and poor gentleman who was transformed
into rich gentleman called, but somehow he could still be called poor
in spirit, possessed wealth as if they possessed, took care of his
wife's considerable property, more like jealous administrator as the
owner and master of them, since his death, which was not late, because
died at thirteen years after the wedding, so had increased the flow
of home with his tact and economy, that of the marital property that
he could stop playing and left about three thousand ducats a year
to each of her four children.

I who write these notes, I am the youngest of them. I say nothing of me because I deserve anything;
but I will say of my three brothers who all are very handsome, understanding and capacity for
the profession still, and my sister is the charm and gala of the court, who ponder and praise
all for his gentle and honest treatment, by his intelligence and beauty, honoring and glorifying
and the noble house as head and mother came years ago.

Sufficient prevention look without all this, even without other evidence, to understand the Marquis
and Marchioness really loved, because the link cold and mere compliance a duty, not born ever
so lucid and generous offspring.

This is assured, I will declare and explain here what was the conduct of the Marquis in his relations
Maria Antonia Fernandez, and how this behavior, although in some points worthy of censure, only
in a time of embarrassing loss did not stop and reconciled with respect
to the actual and holy love which he dedicated to his wife, the Marchioness.

 

Among these were two chiefs called Urban Garnica and Pedro de Santa Maria, who have for your
pleasure many concubines, had a very bad area in that country take Christ our Lord and his holy
law, which they had to see the country are compelled to abandon or to leave the mire of dishonesty.
Therefore, the enemy moved these infernal and more of the love of the flesh, began to spread
by the vulgar thousand calumnies against missionaries, and those much better for them was believed
the people, saying they were spies enemies, they did not intend to subject to anything other than
the Spanish, and under the pretext to reduce them to the Catholic faith, depriving them of
their ancient liberty, which would soon be hungry and desirous of those pleasures that now quench his
taste, would see their lean meat, behind black and blue from the blows of the new masters, whose
yoke loaded on their necks, along with that of Christ, and proof of that, they still had scars
on the body of strokes that led cruelísimos when Christians, even working day and night without any
compassion, to fill the bags at his expense of their masters, and similar to these other countless
lies told, as I came to tell her to pretend to try. They did not say the air, because now
I want the barbarians had become Christians was in its first fervor, they did much of a dent in
these sayings, however, cold in a little that first fervor, the rebels got their attempt to
stir up the country and angering the people to cast them to the parents and refer them to where
they came.

Already entered the year 1691, left the PP. Juan Bautista de Zea and Diego Centeno by the river
Guapay, to cultivate the new people of the Presentation, and P. Arce to the Salinas Valley,
where he went to great number of infidels, of which many fans and showed him others show him
bad face, sign of things to plotting in his heart, which was to kill him, as to not having been
performed so deterred from evil intent Tarichea Indians.

Apostolic Father sought here is to put things in the recent church but demon, blowing in the heart
of the apostates, the good Father worked in many weeks, which crumbled in a few hours, and
on the appendix to these disasters, he heard that Tobas, cruelísimos enemies of God and the
Spanish, having regard to their attempts, were as weapons, and many came destroying the country,
thus, waiting time on time its fury, they worked with great encouragement to receive death if
God Our Lord, in imitation of his subjects, who ran fame that had fallen into the hands of
those killed to evil and cruelty equal to their ferocity.

But as Our Lord with this misfortune, his servant did not want anything but the first tests and
novitiate of an apostolic life, he soon fade away those fears and there then notice that the PP. Zea
and Rye had come to rescue the people of the Presentation and that the Toba had retired to their lands,
which could certainly happen to Tarichea more haste to dispose the
minds of the people to embrace the holy faith.

Here he was received and hosted with love and benevolence of the local lord, who understood
the cause of his trip, he charged side take all the settlements of
the contour, they came together appointed day all the chiefs to council,
to resolve the business of conversion, and executed and the last day
of July, dedicated to our great Father and Patriarch Ignatius.

And why will the taste of the readers know the ceremonies and how they used in their assembly, give
them a brief and succinct news.

He entered parliament in the dead of night, were beginning to function with a symphony flutes
and fifes, and singing and dancing to the business they reasoned, concluding Each dance lasted
three or four faiths with toast.

At daybreak, although it was very cold wind that chilled, for being here this month heart winter,
they all went to bathe in the river, and to brighten up the party, adorned their heads shaved
tufts beautiful face very ugly color, imagining growing in beauty and beauty, when they seemed
so many devils.

Having already cleared up the day, took a breakfast for breath and spirit to continue their
agreement on the way as before. Who thought, or rather, who dared to hope no favorable resolution
in such a council? But despite that, determined by common consent to admit to their lands to Christ and
his holy law, and sent to give notice of its decision to P. Arce,
who under a bower was entrusted to our Lord with fervor this business,
but they put three conditions: First, that the reduction is based
on that place.

The second, which were not required to be banished from their land who would like to live in the
Gentiles, or to keep many women to use, and the third finally their children were not intended
to serve the Church.

The holy man accepted the party, waiting for the weather, and much more will the blood of Jesus
Christ I would soften the hearts and blessing those fruits of his zeal and his labors promised
them, or were ill-founded hopes for Taricú, paramount, on behalf
of all, thanked him for wanting to be used for the benefit of their
souls, and also gave to Our Lord because he had deigned to send him
no interest to teach them the way to heaven.

And because all this happened, as I said, the day consecrated to NPS Ignacio, tagged P. Reduction
Arce under his sponsorship.

While things are here with a favorable wind, I must give a brief relationship
of the province of Chiquitos, which was founded at the same time,
although so happier, a new Christendom, and will be the main target
of this my relationship.

CHAPTER II.

Location of the province of Chiquitos, customs and qualities of the natives.

The province, whom commonly call the Chiquitos, is an area of ​​land of two hundred hundred miles
long and wide, on the west looks to Santa Cruz de la Sierra, and more away to the missions
of the Moxos, which belong to our province of Peru. By Levante down to the famous Lake Xarayes,
whom he rightly called the first sea Dulce conquerors, because of
its size and grandeur.

Tramontana closes by a large Chain mountains rather long, which ran from the east to west, ending
in the lake. For Chaco looks to the south and to a large lake, or rather, Gulf of the Paraguay
River, which here is a beautiful bay, whose shores are populated by a large variety of trees
and called from its inception this cove or harbor within the Itatines.

To bathe the province of Chiquitos two rivers, one the Guapay, who born in the mountains of
Chuquisaca down on an open plain beside a village in the Chiriguaná called ABAP and running towards
the East, encloses them lengthwise into half-moon, to Santa Cruz de la Sierra; and pulling
here between Normans and the West, water and bathe the plains that are at the foot by both parties,
and finally empties into the Mamore gap in the coast of which are founded some peoples, and Christians
of Moxos. The other, the tools or San Miguel, born in the Alps Peru, and going through the Chiriguanos
(on whose land changes its name into that of Parapity) is eventually lost in a very dense forest,
the many twists and turns until about Santa Cruz la Vieja, which
was founded last year Reduction St. Joseph, and turning between Normans
and west, bathing the San Francisco Xavier reductions and Conception
where straight strip at noon, and receiving in his mother's many streams
contour Reductions passes Baur, who belong to the missions of the
Moxos, and hence will to flow into the Mamore, and this in the great
river of the Maranon, or Amazon.

The country, for the most part is mountainous and populated by very dense forests, very abundant
honey and wax for the great multitude of bees of various species, among which is a Opemús breed
called the most similar to those of Europe, whose honey is odoriferous and fragrant and its
wax-white, although a little soft. Also abound in many monkeys, roosters, turtles, elk, deer,
mountain goats and snakes and vipers of strange poisons, because there are some that bite swell
after the bodies of patients and blood drip for all her limbs, eyes, ears, mouth, nose and even
nails, but the suffering, as check for so many parts that foul humor, does not die. Others
there whose venom (although they bitten on the toe) is up to the point at the head, removing
and depriving forces trial, and hence spreading into the veins inevitably
kill, causing delirium, and so far they have not been able to find
effective relief.

The soil of yours is dry, but in the rainy season, which lasts from December to May, so deformed
drowns the campaign, which closes the trade and are many rivers and
large lakes, which abound in many kinds of fish, which fish with some
pasta that stunned bitter come to the surface of the water.

After the winter dry plains and then to plant it is necessary to remove large working forests
and cultivate the hills and mountain peaks that yield very good corn or Indian wheat, rice,
cotton, sugar, snuff and other fruits typical of the country, as
bananas, pineapples, peanuts, pumpkins (which is a kind of squash,
better and tastier than those in Europe), the grain, however, and
the vita, you can not take on these lands.

The climate is warm and intemperate, apoplectic cause of many accidents and frequent infections
they usually do great in natural curls, because these barbarians do not know how to apply,
but two remedies. The first is sucking sick bodies, trade their own chiefs and captains in their language
called Iriabós, which in this office are a lot of room between natural, all too gain, because
instead of cooking the chicken and other delicious viands for ill, it eats all the sucking, and sick
but do not give ordinary lunch box a handful of corn rather undercooked, and if you do not
want to eat, do not give much care, happy patient's response: why should I eat if I have won?
So I have to me The more die from necessity rather than diseases, which are not related to other aforesaid
doctor to show the painful and tell you where they've gone on record: this passes on to consider
whether the patient has poured chicha (a drink something like beer) it has thrown to the dogs a piece
of turtle meat, deer or other living; and if he is guilty of this crime, said that the souls
of these animals, to avenge his injury he has entered the body, and torments him to measure
his reproach. Where is that give any relief against the suck, or in the soil also give strong
blows to the baton around the patient to scare and drive away her soul. This remains the suffering
as before, if not perhaps happen by chance that heal naturally.

Hase observed in these doctors after receiving Holy Baptism, as much as they can not throw a dirty
and smelly subject as they once did every time suck a member of the patient, giving the devil
for careless in maintaining the implied covenant that they had, because
explicit and some had none.

The other remedy is very cruel and barbaric own, and it was killing women who are persuaded
were the cause of the disease (may be his biggest that they had some light by a woman had entered
the world of death) and throwing them out of this world, be they free thought Tribute to death.
So touting the doctor to tell them what a woman had given them that disease in your body, and
he said it was this or that it is first offered or with whom he had some anger, or their husband
or relatives and taking one to the miserable removed fists and truncheons to life. And still did
not realize the deception, even seeing from experience that did not use anything to escape
death this recipe. It comes from a foolish imagination that diseases are from extrinsic causes
not the interior alteration of moods because they are not able to come to penetrate understanding
is not enough to where the coarseness of the physical senses (owned by all West Indians),
or that are otherwise awake and working for others. And seeing that the Missionaries purges and
cured with salt, did not fully persuaded that the blood and other fluids that feed the bottom
of the man could be corrupted and cause evil effects and bad impressions even in the soul, for
this, for the slightest indisposition they wanted to bleed, and asking his arm, he replied that
not, but their share hurt, had to be bleeding, and experimenting with these remedies improvement
were hand to the old doctors scoffed at his fraud and deceit and cruelty that had execrating
used against women.

They are lively and fiery temperament than the ordinary in these nations, good understanding,
lovers of good, nothing inconsistent or inclined to evil, and so tight to the dictates of
natural reason, and they are among those vices and blemishes sensual meat at every step they look and
cry in other countries and converted Gentiles. His stature is more than the ordinary median,
facial features not unlike ours, although the color is olive, to which is easily distinguished
from Europeans; in the past twenty years, grow their hair, and who has better and larger,
has on a certain beauty other lordly, not breed a beard, but late and low. The the dress, the
men go entirely naked, the women wear a cotton shirt called Type, with long sleeves to the
elbow and arm rest naked chiefs and also the main use of this dress, although a little shorter.
Adorn the neck and legs with many strings of certain balls that seem to the emeralds and rubies
view they are also used to make strings of bells on the most festive days. Horádanse the ears
and lower lip, which hang feathers of many colors, and bring it pending a piece of tin are
also a beautiful waist belt very showy feathers for diversity and proportion of colors. They are
spirits brave, and wise warrior personally for the handling of weapons, one of which is the
arrow, which are brave and skillful, and to test and sign of his skill, they bring many queues hanging
animals and feathers of birds have been hunted, another of his weapons is the baton or mace,
which is a very hard and heavy wood in the form of blades, that is played in Europe at the
ball one that is longer in the middle is thick and acute side to the sword fight closely.

They
have no government or civil life, but for their decisions and continue to hear the views of
the oldest. The dignity of chieftain succession does not give, but by merit and value in war
and take prisoners to assault enemies whom no other reason than by
taking away a piece of iron or to attain fame and name of brave in
war.

Totally opposite of genius, neighboring nations are peaceful and quiet living in their ends and
for that I fear and dread is the militia of the Chiquitos, which,
after to make them slaves of war as if they are blood relatives, or
close friends, the married many times with his own daughters, even
his marriage can not be called such, because it is indissoluble individuals
can not marry but one wife, well they can throw to home when they
want and take another.

Only the chiefs take two three women, and women, although they are sisters, who do not have
another job to cook the chicha, running on behalf of husbands to receive and host to strangers
and serve with this drink made of maize, cassava and other fruits, the color is given a chocolate
air and the effect is very similar to wine.

The ceremony used in their weddings is as follows: No parent will give his daughter to husband
if it has not done before a feat, which is why you want to get married, before he goes hunting
and killed many animals can turn around a hundred hares, and without saying a word puts them
at the door of the woman who is in love, and the quality and quantity of hunting, relatives judge
whether he deserves for his wife.

The education of their children is at all according to his barbarous coarseness, leaving them
to live without fear or respect for the family, made themselves masters of releasing the reins
they run to where the dissolution and youthful fervor drag the years.

Few live together as a republic without a head, each one is master of himself, and for any
deviate slightly dislike each other.

The houses are nothing more than thatched huts in forest, side by side without any order or distinction,
and the door is so low that you can only get on all fours, because
it The Spanish give the name of Chiquitos, and they do not give another
reason for having thus houses but they do get rid of anger and annoyance
that cause the flies and mosquitoes oddly that the country is abundant
in the rainy season, and because their enemies do not have where arrows
night, which would be inevitable if the door was great, outside it
does not have another outfit to a mat rather weak that the slightest
breath of air drops.

The free and single, that after fourteen years longer live with their parents, live all together
in a house, which is nothing but an outdoor arbor everywhere, which also serves in time of your visits
and compliments, to receive and accommodate the Foreigners who come from elsewhere, to whom they
give the best of the country and that his cherished drink, and go all the people to celebrate
and participate, along with outsiders, refreshment, but before you
conjure up the devil to come not to disturb the joy of the feast;
the ceremony is to leave some of them from the hut and, with loud
exclamations, hit the ground with clubs.

Their feasts and banquets usually last two or three days and nights, putting the most magnificent
and splendor in the copy and strength of this wine, whose fumes to the point they were up to the
head and deprive them of that little trial and had sex before, so their parties and joy end in fights,
injuries and deaths, because the bitterness and hatred stored and concealed or long hidden in the
most secret heart of cowardice and fear, and come spring out at these times and come to blows
with fury.

After the stranger, in gratitude, the invite and lead to their villages, corresponding with the
same treatment, enforcement and barbaric courtesy, and these are all his wanderings and pilgrimages.
Well if they are not strangers to whom celebrate and feast, are very common together treats to drink
chicha, and this has been the unique and mild impairment that is found in political life, and
reduced through Holy Baptism into the bosom of the Church, being
very true and real thing that individual move docentur in fide, nisi
ab eis removeatur ebrietas that them and other nations of the Indies
wrote the most learned and wise Bishop the illustrious Don Alonso
de la Peña Montenegro [IV.].

So our missionaries put any effort from the beginning and start to exterminate this vice, and together
those feasts and banquets, used in many media, and soft and severe, to break the pitchers, rebuke,
spill and break their brutal chicha together, which provoked them to anger and vengeance to those
barbarians, who were furious and so exasperated, often angrily threw his hand to the clubs and
arrows to to kill them.

Our Lord, finally, rewarding their industries and holy zeal, banishing and starting the hearts of
those barbaric habit so entrenched by the sweat and under (as consistent opinion among us)
of P. Antonio Fideli, Italian, who was the first who died in the apostolic company, in March of
1702, consumed by the hardships and suffered jobs in cultivating this new vineyard of the Lord.

After
his death all these people left the drunkenness and other barbarous customs, indeed moving the
hand of the Almighty, because even among Christians is more cultured
every day that given to drunkenness, we need a miracle of divine grace
you leave, then how much more would be needed for these barbarians
who had nursed with milk?

Distribution and time distribution is as follows: At the break of dawn breakfast, together and play
some instruments of music, similar to the flutes, until dry the dew, that are saved as harmful
to health, hence go to work, cultivating the earth with wooden sticks,
as hard, which makes up the shortage of steel plows or hoes; work
until noon, and then returned to eat.

 But
Chisco are greatly mistaken, because the weapon was excellent, and very decent ammunition it. What
failed was the hunter, that being so clever as I was in the shooting White did not know where
they walked when they had to throw on the run or the flight. The case is that this stupidity
came to spite me, and contributed much to it, rather than looks Chisco syrupy, the brutal laughter
that solemnized Chorcos each amendment was their grungy espingardón the failures of my gun. And
so I arrived in mortification, having put my five senses in this business, I got soon, if not the skill
of my companions, to behave in a way, other than "amendable" by none I missed shots. This cessation
of smiles and laughter of a another, and I felt I downloaded the mind of a great weight, because
that weaknesses are strung together of life, and has never been told the truth as the pompous
Don Hermogenes: "There is little or much at all. "

Twice accompanied us on these expeditions, exploration and mixed game,
the priest Don Sabas, but no weapon that pinto club that served as
a cane.

Was it something like gunpowder decline in spending in those bursts of pure pleasure, and
called them "creatures of God" those who were in the magnitude scale, from wild boar and deer
down. But how knew the full scale complete and true, and those mountains and other such, and
how respect he heard the two men, as hunters, both are growing at my side, and how happy I listened
and I watched him this way ... and many others, for those without eyes or the rough ears of
Chisco witted and his comrade!

Because it's true that this word hombrazo so dull and so poor in resources
in the party My uncle, a bit more pleasant and loose officiating in
the church where he spoke from the altar more fairly to the case and
the extent of understanding of his rustic parishioners, in the heights
of the mountain did not seem to himself.

It was under him, to be much, the interest to know in a few colorful phrases and the news I asked,
not to satisfy I supplied the Chisco and his partner, about the great beasts in their hideouts
in those mountains and how to catch them, trouble sets in which they had seen him and As this was
related to near and far, their descriptions of journeys made by this or that port during an unbridled
"cellerisca" their risk of death among these snowdrifts, sometimes at fault and clinging to
life itself, and most of them for love that of others: the rest was, for me, the way they "fall"
on the mountain, like a statue master in its own right pedestal; that their way of enjoying
the nature that surrounded, swelling it by smell, by sight and even every pore his body, so after
this surfeit, was reading me aloud as he passed his eyes through the pages of this immense
book so close and in Greek to me, the ease that was within the rough simplicity of their language,
the right word, the picturesque touch, note exact box needed to be well observed and well meaning,
the role played in this work of true artist, his painting club, stressing in air and the end
of the arm extended, the force of words, the folding of the humble cassock, gently moved by
the continuous air blowing from the heights, the head erect, eyes sparkling, his hat down
over his neck, correctness and elegance, in short, all lines of this living sculpture ... Oh!
diéranle the poor priest in plain land in the open valley, in the city, a miter, the papal tiara
in the capital the Christian world, and would give them death: breathing at will, to live at
ease, to know God, to feel in all its immensity, to worship and Don Sabas serve as served and
worshiped him, he needed the continued spectacle of those grand altar of that wilderness, rugged
and lonely, with their peaks vanished so often in the clouds that blended with the sky.
 As Rose needed this and not was meeting, I
had to look separately.

CREMATURGO .-- I do not really Avenger. Not to be litter and nothing else. Farewell, ungrateful
(Exit)

EUMORFO .-- Nor I am resigned to be a butterfly unintelligent, especially
when out of love I had already put yours to study philosophy.

Infamous Goodbye! (Exit)

SCENE XI.

Asclepigenia, Proclus.

Mulch and butterfly .-- Asclepigenia leave me. Do I abandon you too, Proclus mine?

PROCLEAN .-- I confess that my soul is shattered. Maybe I would do well to escape from your side
forever, but there is a force that keeps me close to you. In vain I wanted to spiritualize,
sanctify the ancient civilization, cheerful and fond of beauty, but light. No success, however,
to divorce her. I am of her. I'm hopelessly yours. The embarrassing and hard disappointment not
kill the love of my heart to demolish the entire philosophical edifice with so much zeal and
I had raised arrogance. I figure that falls on me the just punishment of pride spirit. The spirit
turned away with scorn of nature, wanted to rise atop the intelligence and facts; struggled
to move beyond being itself, aspired to be confused with the immutable principle of all being.
The mystical union, that I am therefore proud, was not illusion definitely unhealthy. The indefinable
principle of being, which I thought to join, and which all claimed to be denied, was not: it
was nothing. My supposed identification with death he was selfish. No death was generous of
him who, loving life, knows how to give for the triumph of a noble idea, for their country,
for the happiness of the beloved. My itching to get lost in the A, absorbed, impersonal, that
everything is itself and nothing is the most monstrous perversion of the spirit. Is not able
to live and enjoy within the various and beautiful universe. Is to create a mystique opposite
of love. Mysticism refocuses my soul: love the spread. Point the spirit of nature, what can
you expect but what and I regret it now?

Or the delusion that nothing takes the principle of being, or the
baseness, the lowering the impure rude and brutal appetite for material
pleasures, which has won the nature, in society and in every thought,
when the spirit leaves them.

In contrast, What value is the spirit that moves away from the real world, believing and worshiping
the divine worship to himself? Or to resist the blows of misfortune more vulgar retained sufficient
vigor. What will power I have? I can only vile and cowardly resignation or die penalty here,
as nervous little woman. What a shame! I can not.

Alas!

(Proclus falls unconscious in the chair long.)

Atenais .-- Asclepigenia! Atenais! Attend! Oh calamity! Go, bring
a bottle of essences.

We ran out of philosophy! There is no longer possible philosophy. Since there are only positive sciences
and prosaic. I killed my philosopher.

(He leans over him and embraced him with the greatest tenderness.)
Smells bad, but ... Is so wise!

Is so good!

SCENE XII.

SUCH, ATESTAIS.

(Atenais Asclepigenia helps care for Proclus, using a jar of scents
to their noses)

Atenais .-- Calm down.

It's nothing. And regains consciousness.

Asclepigenia .-- I have been a good scare! Poor thing my dear! Too bad it gave me!

Proclus. (Gets up.) - Forgive me, friend. It was a moment of weakness.

(Repairing in Atenais.) Who is this dashing damsel?

Asclepigenia .-- It Atenais, daughter of Leonard.

PROCLEAN .-- The daughter of my learned and illustrious friend! ... Heaven bless you, Atenais!

Asclepigenia
.-- Will you forgive me, Proclus?

PROCLEAN .-- Say no more of the past: forget it.

Asclepigenia .-- Will you live with me?

PROCLEAN .-- I do not want and I can live without you. You are the star that illuminates with its gentle
light the melancholy evening of my life. These soft white hands (making hers) sealed with love
when they meet my eyes to sleep the last sleep.

Contigo .-- Asclepigenia not miss neither wealth nor the body beautiful
... What else beauty that more wealth than the treasures of your soul?

If required, we will live to the fullest strait. Something I can spoil the cook's hands and clothing
remendarte. Elegance, dedication, the scent of aristocratic distinction will vanish almost entirely
when live miserably. But what matter? Do I possess your soul and mine?

PROCLEAN .-- There has to be. Not consent to be lost or deteriorate even a spark or an atom
of all the beauty that nature gave you and that art has been completed
and enhanced.

I earn wealth for you.

For you will have lush beauty and youth body.

Asclepigenia .-- Do not freak out, Proclus.

The youth is gone, never returns.

Venus Urania not visited you for no reason.

As for wealth, I certainly did not ever win a mite with all your
philosophy, unless that appeals to the miracle.

PROCLEAN .-- Well, the miracle appealed.

Now you will see who I am. Here I love you, oh Theurgy! For something I have to serve. So far, Asclepigenia
idolized, and have owned in Eumorfo in Crematurgo beauty, youth and
wealth, quotas, limited and outdated.

From now on later you will have youth, beauty and wealth at all and forever. Saved religious silence.
And starts the spell.

(Deep silence. Proclus, waving his stick, he draws air in circles, and other magical figures,
and muttered unintelligible words. Hear celestial music, slow and submissive. In the center of
the theater is a brilliant and candid curdled cloud with carmine red glow, gold and pearl.)

And Atenais Asclepigenia .-- What wonder!

PROCLEAN .-- Hiding in the cloud you already have, at your service
and your service, replacing Eumorfo and Crematurgo, the archer Apollo,
the most elegant and beautiful of the gods, and the son of Jasion
and Ceres, Pluto the blind, a dispenser of wealth.

Want to go with retinues of muses, graces, nymphs, genii, or go alone?

Asclepigenia

.-- To go out alone. And asking them to go in the time convenient, everything I can think of.

PROCLEAN
.-- Appear gods!

(Opens the cloud, and out of her bright Bengal, Pluto, lame, blind and winged, and Apollo, very
bizarre and airy, with a purple robe, crown of laurel and lyre in
hand.)

PROCLEAN .-- What else do you have to ask?

Asclepigenia .-- Nothing. I was content to your love.

PROCLEAN .-- reflect, however, if something is missing.

Asclepigenia .-- If I am not accused of being overrun beggar and demanding,
yet I would ask one thing.

PROCLEAN .-- What?

Asclepigenia .-- That you wash.

PROCLEAN .-- I'll wash.

Already
.-- Atenais happy.

Possess science, beauty, youth, wealth and even toilet. I, helpless and needy, far from envy
you, rejoice.

PROCLEAN .-- Heaven will reward you, generous Atenais. Yo, I'm now inspired, I read in the future
your eminent destiny. The younger Theodosius, who educates her sister Pulcheria well, so shine
on the imperial throne, will marry you.

So you will be Empress of the East. Will be happy and powerful without resorting to magic, but
will have to make a Christian. Finally, for that our glory and our happiness are more wonderful
and McCabe, after passing chop or fourteen centuries, counting from the day of the date shown
on the smiling and fertile Betic cradle of the dynasty and home to your grandfather Theodosius
the Great Political and countless other Eminent persons, a witty
and truthful writer, which is to write about Tonight's events in a
dialogue, where trying to compete with the divine Plato in the high
and severe, and the satirist Lucian in the funny and cheerful.

I Atenais .-- Much of idle if your predictions are true.

Asclepigenia .-- And me too. I fear, however, that this dialogue, which Proclus announces, is
a extravaganza without amenities and without liveliness, where we figured, not as real people,
but as allegorical characters, where Proclus and I represent the old and corrupt sensual poetry
ancient knowledge and exhausted, desperate and barren, that are delivered live together to witchcraft
and superstitions.

Atenais .-- If the allegory may have some application when the dialogue is written, perhaps interested
in dialogue.

Asclepigenia .-- Whatever happens, should not matter much.

There you are the author.

Five of us, mortals and gods, come to the couch, where I have prepared
a succulent and spicy dinner.

GODS AND DEATH .-- Let's go to dinner.

GOPA

PHILOSOPHICAL DIALOGUE IN THREE PICTURES.

TABLE I.

The scene is Capilavastu City: 593 years before Christ.

Interior of the magnificent palace of Prince Siddhartha. It is night. House of the thalamus,
lit a lamp of gold.

GOPA .-- PRATYAPATI.

PRATYAPATI .-- The king's servants more vigilant Sudono roam around the palace. The city ​​gates
are defended. Not go away. It must not go. Without it what will of
us?

With equal vehemence we love him, though in different ways. I love him like my son. When, shortly
after giving life, died BU mother Maya Devi, their request was Siddhartha to my care. They
did not want the gods that she lived, so they do not suffer what we have today.

GOPA .-- Immense pain overwhelms us. Why irremediable blight her beautiful face sad? Why you want
to leave? What's missing, what is waning in me? I would have preferred to gods, as he preferred
to Nal Damayanti.

My fortune is estimated to obey with humility and be all yours.

Ungrateful! Your heart can not be still insatiable in my love. His noble head never lying still
on my breast.

I no longer love. Judge me unworthy of her affection.

.-- PRATYAPATI
not torment yourself, oh Gopa! Siddhartha loves you. To him you are
the favorite to be among all beings. But love is grief. Love is his
martyrdom. Love is devoured, creating in his soul an infinite pity,
not condone nor delight, nor joy, nor peace alone. All the evils of
life weigh on your heart, comprising in their affection the lives
of the three worlds. Love, eldest son of nature, by a fatal expansion
of its divine essence, be given to that lives, and life was born the
pain, poverty, disease and death. It seems that Siddhartha is the
embodiment, the avatar of love, weeping and regrets having created
life; itself suffering as every life has suffered, and longs to roll
back the life to nothing for the suffering ends.

Ephemeral .-- GOPA's
life: the suffering that emerges should be too.

PRATYAPATI .-- No,
Gopa, life has no end. Death is change, no end. Entrained in the current
life, so moved, but not of essence, which always comes back reborn
or for pain. In this sense, the gods, the asuras, and men are equally
immortal.

GOPA .-- And there is no happy?

PRATYAPATI .-- None. Unhappiness
is the first condition of life.

GOPA .-- Why Love created life, and
unhappiness with her?

PRATYAPATI .-- For Love was not free. As the
spring sun rays as the water flows from the source and flowed and
flowed Love life. Just sublime compassion moved, under superior effort
to the human and divine, collecting itself with portentous abstraction,
Love achieved also record themselves and give life eternal stillness.

GOPA
.-- I see you think like Siddhartha. Clap, no doubt, its purpose,
I do not understand.

PRATYAPATI .-- To some extent I like him but
its purpose is bold, it seems impossible, and bold and impossible
not applaud. If he was called, as he thinks, to be the deliverer of
men, I would and would gladly sacrifice a few to do to achieve it.

GOPA
Pratyapati .-- Oh! How mixed feelings are ours! If you love him as
mother, I, as a wife, a woman in love I love him. This mode of love
is less strong, usually the mother's love. Mother's love is much that
is born from the womb and rooted there. So, not only women but the
same fierce love their offspring. The woman in love with a man when
he just loves to love from the heart, does not love you more he loves
his mother, but when you love with love the spirit, love you a thousand
and a thousand times the most loving mother, she idolizes, he looks
like a god, have faith in him, he believed capable of everything great
and everything good and thinks that his will, which is law for it
must be born a miracle, the good and happiness for all. I do not know,
I do not understand the purpose of Siddhartha, but I know and understand
it will be good purpose, and to achieve, if you want. If by that I
do to achieve the greatest sacrifice I am eager to make.

PRATYAPATI
unhappy .-- Oh weak woman! What miserable resignation is yours? You
alone can Prince stop chain with the delight of your affection, but
the veneration Prince excites you inspires you to break that chain.
Violence will not be enough to keep him, but if your soft white arms
intrigue you, how do you depart from each other to go where dreams
that their vocation is calling? The king puts his hope in you. Not
disappoint. Retaining Siddhartha the spell of your love and your beauty.
Do not let him since .... Sorry steps. Siddhartha is coming. I will
not be staying here. Courage, Gopa oh!

(Goes Pratyapati.)

GOPA .--
Encouragement .... I needed to stop him, not need. I need to leave
from all my courage.

(Enter the Prince.) 

After this, the Missionaries have worked our breed and maintain these tender plants can not explain
better than talking honestly, without adding anything of mine, a particular fact and part of letter
true, as I will, wherever they find juncture, originals faithfully carried this story will
be more reliable and taste more satisfied readers.

He says, then, Brother Juan de Avila, P. partner was Visitor of this province Antonio Garriga
and P. Provincial Luis de la Roca, where as I shall, visited those Doctrines subject of much trial
and ability in a letter from there wrote:

"As for founding the Missions of Paraguay suffered incredible work those first apostolic men,
taking the Indians of the jungles and engaging in their Christian life and politics to put them in the
state that remain today, divided into thirty Reductions well have been less work and sweat
of those who have founded the first Christianity of the Chiquitos. It is not easy to say what they
have been exposed to suffer hidden enemies and friends, the high cost of everything needed for
human life the deep swamps, inaccessible mountains, impenetrable forests, wild animals, intemperate
climates, thirst, hunger, extreme nudity, total abandonment of all things and honor all war
hell. Could descend to particular cases I have seen and heard if they were not well known and
I are continuing matter of shame and confusion. Do not bring upon itself, but a cloth vestidillo
trivial pieces, and often dressed in animal skins, do not bring other shoes a piece of rawhide
attached to another string of leather for the soles of the feet, and head for shelter from
the sun ardientísimo there does, one as a hat, but also leather bed without any relief, the regular
lunch box, a handful of corn, and this with such low it was barely enough to keep the forces, great
time to live without the comfort even of seeing one of his companions, and being afflicted with
long and painful diseases, no nowhere to turn our eyes. "

So the brother said, and I test everything he says, want to point out some cases where particular.

He
told me not long ago, a father who was Superior of those reductions,
which for many months did not have something else to sustain, but
grass roots, and they also lacking, harassed of hunger, was compelled
to go in search of wild fruits.

When Fr Gregory Campbell was on behalf of P. Simon de Leon, Provincial
of the province, to visit those missions, he took the winter (there
is not measured by the cold, not does, but by the breaking of the
rains) took him under a bower, where seven missionaries spent a long
time without other sustenance than a wild fruit called Motaquí, with
some kinds of milk, and the day of Easter, great gift, the neophytes
were given an ear or spike corn.

But it had another on the same day as Fr Zea, which present great gift for While some small rolls,
could not eat anything from them for being bitter as gall.

Has not seemed superfluous to have these trifles, for apostolic men who in does not look anything
other than conversion of infidels, notice also how much they cost and consider if you need a very
generous charity is employed in seeking the glory of God and look for the eternal salvation
of souls.

And certainly not cower to hazards, not to turn their backs to many jobs, not to withdraw and not
leave a life in which to each pass is with death, dying of hunger here, lost there in the woods,
now walk between arrows and clubs, now in the midst of angry people, it is difficult under
of being, and all that is necessary under whom ever undertaken in remote countries and among barbarians
the office of the Apostolic preaching.

But what fills me with awe and wonder, is that amidst so many hardships and discomforts, have
not yet died among many workers more than three or four, whereas there who has worked twenty-five
and thirty years, but it is singular providence of the Almighty,
who whom no case has made his life for his service, are kept healthier
and better than if had lived in the comforts of a college, as I saw,
with great astonishment, in P. Juan Zea Baptist, that age of sixty-five
years seemed younger in just over thirty breath and courage.

Truth is that today have largely eased many labors, introduced in those people with the Holy Faith
civil and political life, pass it a little better Missionary and the piety of men provides
them with some things to happen to the needs domestic.

And now I know how right to claim the Superiors of the province to
our Fathers general, saying there is this desire for anyone, but only
men of virtue very large and well established.

And indeed, one among other deceptions in which he lived when in Europe firings was eager to
come to India, was to persuade me that for a Missionary Apostolic of these parts, enough to have
a great zeal for souls, but who shall read this regard, find that there are more occasions to
exercise the internal devotion of mind, patience, humility and self-mortification,
and zeal for souls with the other, when I refer here little more than
physical labor, which are the least of which are offered to suffer.

So I want to add a letter that I wrote a friend of mine, whom I cry and reverence at once, which,
with forty-three of the Company that led to the province Quito, the Attorney General Nicholas
de la Puente Father, by God's inscrutable counsels, drowned in the sea horse that ship was
sunk by the year 1717. Dice, thus:

"The fact that we may not see again in Europe, encouraged me to write it to my brother, I hope
you will find in Cadiz, in order to give the final okay, and the
embrace a humble heart, rejoice, along with the most vivid of my affections,
by his now next sort of misleading to leave this world of here and
go in search of a better, or to improve it.

Know, my dearest brother, our fortune, which I am about to say is the largest how many God can give
to his chosen. So what? Perchance is a small thing live unknown, and if I have to tell the
truth, despised by all, or at least some estimate? Oh, lucky us, a great thing if we were involved!
Courage, my brother beloved! Breath, go, go! but where? the Indies,
that is, to Calvary.

To what end? A crown us, yes, but with thorns, to rest, yes, but on a cross. Here just because
from here should start the wishes of a Jesuit Indian. Pray to God and his Blessed Mother to
banish from our hearts all other affections, and not leave him but the desire ardientísimo to
suffer for love of Him who loved us to make life for us. "

CHAPTER VII

Fervor and under the new Christianity, winner of our Lord God with many events miraculous.

They were truly great, as we have seen, the work and labors of the Fathers in tame this uneducated
heathen field, but nevertheless it seemed to them nothing, even if they no comparison was much higher,
seeing how well lit and could seed Gospel preaching, and how soon is seasoned by fruits worthy
of Paradise, but in this I do not want to put any of mine, but only
to speak to them sowers of the seed, to marvel at it and give Rejoice
with incomparable joys of comfort.

"In the knowledge of God (says one) and the observance of divine law
can be in all truth, without a trace of exaggeration, say that this
jungle of beasts and vice is now a portrait of the early Church.

Bendigo infinitely holy wounds of the Redeemer (Says another) that compared the past and present
life of these people, are now so different themselves, when they were idolaters, who seem somehow
born anew in innocence Original. "

Add Father Samartín Sebastian, who was Superior of those reductions:

"Everything can suffer for them, for the affection they have to faith, to return and to what God
or of God. "

But speaking at length Missionary Father St. Joseph Reduction of mercy his people, during Lent
of the year 1705.

"It is not easy to say the fervor that these holy days showed the
new Christians in things of God, heard the paladra of God with great
taste and less fruit and no compunction in I felt lucky to be among
pious Spanish.

The act of contrition that is used the end of the sermons, made him such grief, crying a lot.
Which showed discipline also not really long enough, but not so paid
upon fervor, which cost so much stop them, screaming for mercy to
our Lord and fervorosísimos repeating acts of contrition and purpose
of his no longer offend Divine Majesty, especially in their innate
vice of drunkenness, which, with the help God, have completely forgotten,
but which most clearly knew his piety and true sorrow and repentance
for their sins, was in the act of sacramental confession to that came
crying so bitterly that drew tears to my eyes and filled me with incredible
comfort, giving thanks to the Divine Mercy which is in its people
as barbaric and new faith in such prodigious effects.

"

So Missionary who went on to say that a thousand other things of kindness and devotion of Christians
that serve no little confusion and shame to those born and lived in the bosom of the Holy Church.

Rather
than by what touches to the purity of his conscience are other missionaries relationship differently
saying they do much scruple to hold another's property by small, often they are found just enough
matter for absolution, then they feel the slightest remorse of any guilt, however slight,
and sometimes only in appearance, are flying to weep before God and seek remedy to his ministers,
although they are currently engaged in the work the field, resting or night, and particularly
concerns a woman who looks good even this small part to keep innocent, touted as the heavens
with their prayers for that put an safest where staining was his soul that he finally managed to happy
office their pleas, because the feast of the Ascension, assaulted an accident almost sudden
received all the Sacraments, was for death to enjoy the grace he wanted.

Neither this innocence is only a few to whom God looks with eyes more
pious and whose souls strengthened further copy of heavenly blessings,
but is common in all Reductions, at least on the outside, because
some of the aldermen of the town have by trade syndicate the customs
of others, and when maybe one, for suggestions the flesh yields to
vice sensual, seen first as a penitent, I do confess guilt and apologize
to God in the midst of the church, which led to the plaza, they lash
sharply in front of everyone.

But it makes me wonder penance so that those guilty are being discovered
by foreign coaches, as the sincere confession of catechumens and of
India.

Knew that a Christian had been punished with the rigor that I have said, and it seemed so good this
righteousness, which instantly begged him is use of such punishment, because I said, I'm guilty
of that sin, and India, a hush had fallen fragility not stop until he said with great feeling his guilt
to the Rulers, asking them many prayers and supplications were run in her public punishment, saying
he moved to make this offense against God, and not following the examples of many that had resisted
the lure of meat with the consideration of the presence of God assists everywhere, with the memory
of the eternal punishment of hell and the other media they taught the Padres.

And what's more barbarians made to live in freedom without brakes punishments and penalties, none
of them feel this severity that is used to correct his errors.

More it seems a miracle is that in such a way Chiquitos have laid down their enemies with confining,
blowjobs with milk, fostered the genius, defended with weapons and made the relentless bloodshed,
when previously unable to suffer or even see his enemies in the world, now are with them in the
same reduction, live in the same house and eat at a table, turning hatred and resentment at
as much love for one another, as if had no other father than God and all were a family of
Jesus Christ.

This might seem the most of virtue in a new Christian if they had not passed along left to shatter
them like the Gentiles, not to miss, even as they seemed in a point to the holy law of God.
They heard that God commanded them not return evil for evil, and than to the insults and injuries,
even in life, but no replies with meekness and suffering.

A short time were some newbies (as we shall) to seek to reduce them infidels the knowledge
of God, and suddenly found a Rancheria, the peasants were upon them with clubs and arrows,
but the Christians, but very spirited and well-equipped weapons that could have been easily
defended, however, not make them evil; were allowed to take lives.

Others, having gone to another such company, or even wanted to carry
weapons with them, and entering in a land peaked in it the image of
Our Lady, exhorting the people hiciese reverence, but the response
we had was to see fall upon them a storm of arrows, of there were
many dead.

They knew that the missionaries and wept with seeming comfort a miracle of grace in a nation so
proud and vengeful.

And indeed, affection so tender to the things of God, so great horror of sin and to all what
smells of vice, should be attributed to the holy life and to observe the continuous exercises pity
that everyone, regardless, regardless of sex or condition, practice.

Three times a day, at daybreak, at noon and at night, together children
choirs to sing various prayers and many memory decorate what the Missionary
has explained the Catechism.

All holidays are meeting the people to hear a point of Christian doctrine or sermon after a
solemn sung mass. By standing up and lying are entrusted to God the
Queen of the Angels and the Holy Guardian Angel, with devout prayers
that baptized learning, of some use to enter the Church and when the
priest elevates the Sacred Host or the Chalice.

Before sitting down to dinner cast up the blessing, and besides that do not eat any lunch box off
the table without first blessed with the holy cross. When admitted to the participation of the
divine mysteries, it is difficult to explain with much devotion and tender colloquies come near to
communicate and how much then try to keep your heart pure and clean from all stain of sin.

Could bring many examples in confirmation of this, but not to cause annoyance to readers content myself
with referring one. They wanted some young men receive the Bread of Angels, but Father gave them
to understand that it never granted without first corrected and amended certain freedom that
I had some remnant of heathenism; them, without any proceeding, obeyed then, and although not cost
them little, amended completely from this custom.

He asked then if they had returned to relapse and much admired, replied that how could offend
to his Lord after he had hosted in his heart.

But when these reductions seem a paradise (say a subject that has seen), is night, when everyone
sings the things of our holy faith, put on some music mode very flat, which makes children
on public streets at the foot of the crosses, and men in their homes
and in a separate place for women, then pray the rosary and conclude
This feature devoted to songs in praise of Christ Our Lord and His
Blessed Mother Our Lady the Virgin Mary, whom profess most tender
affection, not calling another Mother's title, all on Saturdays and
the eve of the festivities devoted to his name, to sing the Mass are
musical instruments, which are used among them, and never will to
work in the field or returning from their work without first entering
the church to pray in front of his image.

The best of its poor assets used in service of this lady, and want to be poor before to miss a point
in their worship, and once a father wanted to sell on the wax Opemús calls bees, which is very
white, and the best, answered resolutely: "No God forbid that our benefit is expended on what we
have offered to his Blessed Mother, because if we deprive ourselves of this wax for his sake,
she will get to help our poverty. "

Finally, for ultimate proof of the devotion of these new Christians,
give notice of certain public precessions own, which, if it proves
to some offal should not be ignore, others say that may seem so, but
not in people for whom it was necessary an oracle of the Vatican to
believe they were capable of the law of God: "For the first discoverers
de las Indias recklessly false and judged that they were not sound
gross but, unable of reason, and based on this error the Spanish island
of Santo Domingo and the other, holding them by animals, three four
arrobas loaded go to bed, were taken out and carried many miles and
this view was understood then fed natural damage, so that in New Spain,
to be careless by beasts in human form, treated as if they were, denying
the consequent, be able to Bliss and the Holy Sacraments and reached
as this, which led to D. Br Juan Garces, the first bishop of Haxcala,
Dominico, year 1636 [V] to write a letter full of piety and scholarship,
reporting the truth to the Supreme Pope Paul III, who with Quick and
special Bull, defined and declared to the Indians for men rational
and capable of the Catholic faith, like all other nations of Europe
and all the world see you utpoté Indos ipsos homines, non solum Christianae,
fidei able existere decernimus et declaramus and so on.

[VI.] Being then such Indians who has been rendering irrational, even the less barbarous, and these
little kids being one of the class the most barbarous (P. Acosta in Prooem. ad lib. attempting.
Indor, salute, as he teaches Fr Joseph Acosta, D. Juan Solorzano, Lib. of Politic. Indian. Chapter
9, pg. 41, and illustrious Bishop of Quito D. Alonso de la Peña Montenegro, in Book 2 of Schedule
Foreword, page 141 and many other authors) one less thing shall mount these signals external devotion
and mean. "

The night, therefore, Holy Thursday, after hearing a sermon on the Passion fervorosísimo of
Our Lord Jesus Christ, to wear a habit off the sadness of this holy season; and to imitate the
Redeemer grieving, have some very heavy crosses their backs, others are restricted head with
sharp thorns, who tied behind their hands, you dragged to the ground, who right with arms outstretched
in a cross, the most harshly hit with terrible disciplines closes the procession a troop of children
in pairs bearing the instruments of the Passion the Lord.

Then, at the foot of a crucifix placed before devotee of the Holy Sepulchre, all in their order,
tiernísimos feelings with tears in his eyes, he offered the fruits of their fields, "Filling in
the meantime (say a Missionary) of comfort our hearts to see prostrate
these souls before the Divine Lamb who rescued them with his blood
which shortly before they were like beasts strayed and lost in the
jungles.

"

The other procession made the day of Corpus, to which they invite the nations bordering the
Gentiles up, then, the most richly streets that his poverty is possible, and instead embroidered
tapestries of gold or damask hangings, decorated with the ingenious artifice facades of palm
branches, linked together beautifully, to the headwaters the triumphal
arches rise streets dressed as beautifully landscaped gardens are
in their and forests, the best of dressings and delicate embroideries
and beautiful carved feather it puts everyone in front of his house,
and in order that all creatures, even irrational, homage and tribute
of reverence to the common Lord of all, leave days prior to hunting
birds and beasts, even tigers and lions, and tied tightly put them
on the road which has to pass the Blessed Sacrament, and throw together
the ground corn and other seeds that have to do their fields to be
blessed by God and then multiply to the extent of their need, but
the best of this most devout party is the most tender devotion and
fervor with which accompany this work to the glory of his Creator.

And do not think that our Lord God one is left (so he said) to overcome the mercy of these his
new faithful, but rather it seems, so to speak, who has walked with them to competition, so that, the more
they are used in their service, the more returns and reward them with benefits, because as
we know from experience, is usually extremely loving and beneficent in the first training for those who
choose to foundations of a new church between infidels and uses more length to your advantage of
your blessings, not only on the needs spiritual, but also in the body.

Perdíanse once the fields for lack of water, and just called neophytes, when broke in very abundant
rainfall.

It was great havoc on the townspeople of San Rafael a pestilence; ran then the people to the church
to ask God for mercy, and to the point it stopped spreading, so that no of headgear he died
on, or any ill healthy.

There was also great shortage of food here, because of which women made some good their need
to God, telling one: "Jesus Christ Our Lord and God, give us something to eat, because if we
do not die. "And again:" Lord do you want me to die? Look I'm falling hunger ", and this year
were very abundant crops.

Had to go to Mount Christian town of San Juan Bautista to make provision
of meat, but have not finished the fabric of the church were working
to finish to make with all perfection, trusting God to provide as
in fact happened, Shortly afterwards it emerged from the forest are
many wild boars in troops, and to clearly was known that was a thing
of God, stood by the reduction, so that people could to kill her unless
they were enough to help their needs.

But it would never end if we want to relate one by one the favors that God Our Lord used with them.
Ultimate test is only them who believe most of these newcomers a rosary anyone else, beautiful and
precious it is, and rightly so, because it serves insurance repair and shield the misfortunes and dangers
they encounter in their ways, and most holy names of Jesus and Mary, have fought many times of
obvious risks to become the pieces of the beasts.

 Everyone has a desire to be a bit sharp, a little funny and a little naughty in front
of people, hence the follies and inconveniences, and almost anyone it happens to be sincere,
which, good education and a dash of common sense, have no guarantee of becoming "evil" there
or anywhere, it is not loose at the time warranty essentially communicative reach. For full sincerity,
and at its highest degree, together with a good understanding, was the first thing which I
took to see in the mediquillo of Tablanca.

Speaking of the illness of my uncle told me it was fatal. Was ... (And here laughing stopped to
ask forgiveness for the words she was going to drop) in a dilation heart ... asystolic state ...

-
In current Castilian - added with a gesture and a very natural and
expressive gesture - is the old machine whose body begins to decompose.

It hindered the wheel of the heart could be impeded as another major. For some of them had to
start the inevitable ruin. When consumed it, when the machine stops, it is not possible to
calculate a date fixed either by me or by those who know of these things I do: the same can stand
inside six months at the moment. What is certain is that there is no time machine.

Although it was well persuaded me, confirming my suspicions as authorized
by lips I was a very painful effect.

Apart from the blood ties that bound me to Don Celso, personal qualities in him that made him very sticky
to the affection of those who treated him.

Speaking of his illness, he sought other similar and many others, without seeming to them,
had, however, the same dismal outcome: death of the patient, and already this way, we ended the
proverbial "discouraged" by the learned in the "healing art" as collate and compare the resources
of his science with the miserable man's physical condition; only that the boy that, in agreeing
with me on the ineffectiveness of medicine in most cases of hardship, not her hands to her head,
or reneged on the human capacity, nor was any hope that they would go and slowly fixing these
problems' heroes and the martyrs of science "on the contrary, without denying that studying hard
was ascertained something more than what was known in the art, given the current failures, and
even the coming for one thing needful, and which already had him to begin his studies, ie
not I noticed the slightest spark of enthusiasm for his profession, nor the slightest sign
of disappointment to practice playing it their poor resources. Declaróme honestly and fairly
so was true, and with this and a little cunning mine, we were going step by step on the field
I wanted to drive you, or better, knowing it was all I needed to just met "inside."

He was a native of Robacio (like Chisco), and his father, Don Servando
Celis, a man of art Celso my uncle, had hoped to make health care
because he already had another son, the eldest, studying law at Valladolid.

To him, studying third degree in Santander, did the same thing.
 Therefore resolved Fr Visitor Juan Bautista de Zea, left the road old, throwing
the East to the river to a Rancheria Parapití Chiriguaná called Charagua through which that river,
here with two chiefs tried to guide him to where he had come Fr Suárez, offering them to the
point, anticipating our good pay; but the day before departure, being well taken of chicha, which
is their wine, they discovered As plotted in his heart, and was the cause of all their relatives
had boarded anger because the Fathers taught that way which would come forward to steal and
make them slaves Mamalucos, saying it was better to kill them to batons, or if not what least
lead them to where tigers hiciesen havoc on them bosses, however, wanted keep them up and speak
without claiming any of these reasons, desire more profit who drew, that certainty that they
had of the dangers that might happen. For so the next day were ready to go promptly serves parents
and escorted until Parapití.

Missing a few miles to get to the place where P. Suarez had turned
back when two chiefs were left out of the mouth these words: "Great
pity we have for you, because you have to rob and kill Tuquís that
run through this path.

" Tuquís call the people who are not of their nation.

Fr Visitor did not understand them and wanted to move on, but we recommend their colleagues suspected
the Chiriguanos plotting some treachery, and that under the pretext
of Tuquís wanted to conceal their plots, because beyond them there
were others in the country that had While registered Chiquitos, therefore,
under pretext that the animals were tired and could not walk the way
they were missing, were quick to go back to escape the nails of those
barbarians who steal for only the poor little things they carried,
I wanted to treason.

And do not be deceived, because they found many crews those barbarians who, when asked where
they were going, they replied that to fish in the Parapití; but they escaped from the hands of
these fish were about to search.

Not entirely lost so long a journey, not the hardships and suffered such earnest work operators,
arranging God for the souls of two children got the happy fate of predestination.

Were they in Charagua and to expire, when they were called to our body applied to them some
relief, but seeing them lost hope of temporal life, they sought the
remedy of the soul with the holy baptism, and barely received when
they were to enjoy this bliss, blind parents, both hated.

Which filled joy both to those apostolic men, that they just seemed so well spent so much sweat
and toil.

Because of these pregnancies could not get the little ones to mid December with they were obliged
to halt in the reduction of San Francisco Xavier by rains and flooded the country.

Few people found the P. Zea Visitor Reductions, because only the Indians had raised their homes
and picked up some harvests to support themselves, when left to point to recognize the country
and its borders and spy on the villages of the infidels, because
it had been customary his old war again with the confining and take
them as slaves, they used that the ours to expand the glory of God
and the benefit of those unbelievers who lived in the darkness of
death and infidelity; persuadiéronles, therefore, that the settlements
were for the surrounding, but without causing the least harm or the
lives or the estates; rather that with kindness and other good manners,
be given them knowledge of God and heavenly things, teaching them
the purpose for which they were raised and lived in the world, need
to embrace the law of Christ to be eternally happy, and to endeavor
to make the affection of any of them, to serve as a guide to the Missionaries
and first successfully performed.

The good Christians as promptly began to exercise the lesson were
given, which not even slightly beyond it, were left to smash the Barbarians,
which was so necessary to explain what they could do if they should
be attacked for that did not happen in future what happened to some
Indians of the Reduction of St. Joseph, as they went in search of
Salinas Rancheria gave an infidel entered it without arms, displayed
only the standard with the image of Our Lady, and soft words tried
to tame and polite ferocity of the inhabitants, but they looked at
them askance, fell upon them like tigers and made them as cruel havoc
that only an Indian with two boys escaped with his life.

Same, if not worse, because they were more in number, came to the San Juan Bautista. Internáronse them
in enemy territory, eighty more miles to a land of infidels fenced around of deep pits of water,
beside which they had made their homes, entered into ours and two of its inhabitants alone,
because others were working in the field, came out to meet them and to threaten them with their
arrows.

Displaying one of these that Christians did not desist from moving forward, struck with a bolt
that bore the image of Our Lady, whom they did other damage that removing weapons (Stunning
sight to be a miracle even in the profiteers in the spirit, not into
barbarians, in whose hearts more than revenge in the body the soul),
but women up arms, went to the fields to warn the men, who, left the
work, returned to the point with the intention of making them a great
slaughter, but seeing the number, with self-harm and having tried
other times the courage and encouragement of the Chiquitos, stopped
and prevented the table in which repair of hunger, speaking more by
signs than words being of different languages.

Soon after came the chief, that the point was removed and ordered his men who collected weapons than
ours, in peace, had put down.

They had reluctantly that the Chiquitos, but their captain, fervorosísimo in faith, whereas
before to become like a beast, he issued the dejasen take, trying with such kindness beat and gentle
affection and will, and their souls for Christ.

But it took little because after that the barbarians were unarmed loaded on them and had done
them a great slaughter, until they left none alive, if not a few have entered in the trenches, were
many wounded, and took many months in the body signals fervor and desire in their breasts encouraged
to shed the blood of Christ.

One of them was wounded in the stomach, and the arrowhead damaged his entrails; which with great
difficulty brought him to the house in the arms of others, and bedridden for a long time until
he had no more than the skin on the bones, loss of hope to heal treated a missionary to arrange
for his death, telling him to forgive his enemies and had by happy to give their lives to bring to
others with the Gospel, which mimics the Redeemer good who apologized for his enemies to his Eternal
Father, loving them with infinite love in return of injuries received.

The good Indian heard with pleasure, and with tears of tender affection, and offered to God forgave
his life for the salvation of those who had so grievously offended,
and so was administered Sacraments and waiting for her happy moments
transit to a better life.

The next day the nurse asked what state was the patient, who responded to I was out of danger, and
that he had received that Lord had taken away all evil.

Father did not quite believe it, but finding it was true, asked the Indian, healthy, had happened.
For he met, saying: "The Lord, yesterday you gave me, set me free and tonight I threw away all
evil. "

Using this case, urged the missionary to those new Christians to persevere in good start and
to love God with this miracle expressed how much he liked her fervor.

But there are many who take revenge of that cruelty, because the walk also Piñocas them in search
of souls, they found anything with them, and recognizing Rosaries and wearing crosses around their
necks, remains of the dead (these are the trappings and ornaments so dear to those Christians),
even with all that they had not been attacked, if remorse of conscience
had not fueled the Infidels, which, while were put into weapons, Piñocas
received from such a burden, many of them were dead ground and among
the chief author of the betrayal.

Better luck ran other Indians in the same reduction of San Juan Bautista,
which entered in Rancheria Puraxís, managed to reduce to the Santa
Fe fifty families, and with them cheerful and happy, they turned to
their encampment.

As reported on P. Visitor of the strange encounter of the Reduction of St. Joseph, ordered from
the same town a hundred Indians, armed with weapons, became not to punish the cruelty of those
evil, but to bring the bones of the dead to give honorable burial
and with good manners, but always with weapons in hand, I certify
truly the end because they were his people and love that even after
that committed barbaric atrocity, they had.

Left point, and although at the cost of great works by the lack of
water, so that they had to cool the thirst, but a bit of dew collected
in the wild thistles finally arrived at the scene of the killing,
which only found the bodies of his brothers, but not to the killers,
whom the fear of punishment forced to retreat to where so easily could
not be found.

Christians wanted to go on your monitor, but not being practical in the ways deferring this
company for more timely and carrying on their shoulders the bodies, they turned its reduction,
which had no little matter of joy in the two towns that saw it founded again, the one with the
title of St. Ignatius of Bocas, and the other of the Conception where people came together very
different language, that in his travels to the South VP had discovered
Lucas Caballero.

Noted by the first Superior Fr Joseph de la Mata, and he went by his
companion, rare example and edification of all in using the office
to pick the most field crops hard and strewn with thorns and crosses
(that give more evidence below).

But this zeal was to cost him life soon, because as he was truly Missionary Apostolic unable
to sleep and rest, just arrived at the new point reduction if wanted to win for Christ to the
Auropés and Tabacis, still need to get through deep swamps and ponds, walking many times washed,
and water falling from the sky and the heavy sweating it was resolved to conquer or lighter
than a few pregnancies. From here it originated humor evil that runs through the body, it took
all soon with a monstrous swelling as dangerous as life, not having
gone to the P. Mata with some remedies, not both for their activity
as the will of God, was repaired somewhat, and to be restituyese entirely
to its former health, it was necessary mudase of scenery, going to
San Rafael, where he wide field to exercise their zeal, coming to
hunt beasts sound (it would allow call barbarians) which domesticated
reduced the fold of the Church.

It seemed he was going to compete with the V. Father Knight to win souls for God and for himself
very many merits, and it is my duty to give here in full the heroic virtues news of them both:
for the first time I have down timely; of Luke give the VP in subsequent
chapters, concluding the story with the most happy suffered martyrdom
the year 1711.

CHAPTER X

Birth, entry into the Company and first fervor of the venerable P. Lucas Caballero.

Born venerable P. Lucas Villamar, instead of Castilla la Vieja. His parents were of the main
him and arranged in fortune. He spent the first years of his childhood home an uncle, a priest
of ejemplarísimas customs, and who learned a lot of maturity trial and gravity in action, so
that the children had nothing childish or show tenderness, but in piety, or taste, but in the
exercises of devotion, and all showed a virgin modesty, so delicate, that was offended to see
or hear actions or words unless modest.

Having passed that holy priest to a better life, went to live with another uncle, also priest,
but in different ways and proceed, however that, the child devotee strengthened with the grace
of the Holy Spirit with the lowest defect marred the innocence of his innocence, but to keep it
pure neglect was perhaps the authority of his uncle who was broken customs, remained modest, retired
and paying attention only to things of the soul and service of God.

He learned the rudiments of grammar in our St. Ambrose College in
Valladolid where the treatment of our people took to the Company and
asked to be admitted bodies in it, and made the usual examinations
and tests, passed the novitiate of Villagarcía, large Seminar religious
and apostolic men in both worlds.

Filled the expectations here for he had with the fervor of spirit and innocence of life, having
all your taste in God.

He had by this time news of the arrival in Spain of Fr. Christopher and Thomas Grijalva Domidas,
prosecutors in this province, who came from evangelicals to farm
workers and maintain this extensive vineyard of the Lord.

Then kindled fervent desires to be one of those listed to go to India, to which so the Lord
God made repeated pleas to be his Divine Majesty deign choose it to spread its glory and bring
the light of faith to those who live in the shadows gentility, offering prompt willing to work
and to the perils of life to shed their blood for the faith.

Pleased to heaven as these deals were to understand the effects, for holding him the Upper
and working for large companies in the service of God, some of the
solid virtues license was granted, and shortly afterwards, accompanied
by another seventy missionaries was given in Cadiz to sail, and after
a laborious navigation that killed eight of the ours arrived in Buenos
Aires, the first port of this province, and from there to Cordova
of Tucuman, where, with clever credit completed his studies.

Do not want to ignore what he humility, and for our instruction, referred to a confidant his,
and was seeing on the philosophy that superior to the other classmates in the functions home, got
carried away in some vain self-complacency and neglect recitation prayer of the angelic doctor, he
used before the study, but it originated here oscurecérsele somewhat
understanding, and it was necessary after much sweat and work to understand
the theological disciplines.

Finished his studies and received holy orders, he used his zeal in Missions jurisdiction of the city
of Cordoba with the same glory of God and use of souls and the Indians and the Spanish, whose
poverty they live in those deserts and land no other doctrine or instruction in the law of God
to give them our own when they to their farms and ranches, it being
for them the day of Easter and the highest devotion throughout the
year thus collected abundant harvest of souls and work, those for
Christ and these for themselves, as this mission more difficult and
laborious that we have.

From there, he turned to the conversion of the Pampas Indians bordering
on the bishopric, which company tried to go through with commitment
because it pierced his heart the loss of so many souls stuck in the
darkness of paganism, living as they live so close to the splendours
of Gospel.

It is not easy to relate how much sweat and work to reduce to these infidels, but all in vain
because they stubbornly refused to receive the holy baptism and reduced to political life,
it was compelled to abandon them completely to avoid losing a life
time and wishes burning in his chest most extensive and spacious field
where the harvest was more certain, and less resistance from the ground
to receive the seed of the Gospel.

At this time it was more heat to undertake the mission and reduced Chiriguaná and Chiquitos, so
that the Father asked and obtained to be designated by one of the first to who touched the fate
of reducing those Gentiles to the knowledge of their Creator.

Put him to care for the Reduction of Our Lady of Guapay, where he spent two years, achieving
more fruits of patience, hunger, thirst, taunts and insults of the infidels souls for Christ
to be the Chiriguaná barbarians, extremely stubborn, to whom punishment or intimidate domesticated
or benefits, because the Lord God having used them to both media, and trying to lure them with
miracles and with the fervor of apostolic men, already staggering with raging storms and lightning
in the sky, and with famine and pestilence in the land, persevere
obstinate in his obstinacy.

Accustomed as these barbarians to throw off the yoke of the Gospel soft because they are already angry
VP zeal of Lucas and colleagues, pretending that they had only come to their land together and
deliver to the Mamalucos of Brazil, they threw the country and destroyed the church they had
made, for whose sake he retired to the Chiquitos, in the town of San Francisco Xavier, where finding
the ground more willing to cultivate the faith, attending to those
new with incredible zeal and faithful love and truth, it was necessary
good spirit and enthusiasm for come and assist the needs of this church,
no less distressed than the plague shortages of everything needed,
giving no respite day or night to the fatigue and work he fell seriously
ill with the last moment of life, with extreme pain his companions
venerated him as a saint, and the neophytes who loved him as his Father.

But

in this affliction God would comfort them all in a short time giving full health regase with their
blood to this new vineyard of the Lord (condition apparently required for rooted faith to stay in
fields where plant) that henceforth he reported abundant fruits.
 The Apostolic Fathers sought to appease her angelic face
and gentle and polite words those furies of hell.

All was in vain, for poisoning the Barbarians against Jesus Christ and His law, ignoring anything,
he aimed and fired a large number of arrows at his head, but could never hit, but rather saw clearly
that turned back the arrow, as if a hand counter the throw, and shot with such force that
he had passed from hand to hand, but definitely get stopped her God, and he fell powerless at
the feet of the Father. Another wounded in the womb to a Christian who took the picture, and alegrísimo
the good boy her happy Luckily, it went aside to spend with God the last years of his life,
not less His glory that envy P. Lucas, who embraced him closely, that is hurting in pain unworthy
of his sins with him in death.

Meanwhile, the infernal Mapon angrily poked his men, and about an hour were shooting arrows
without causing more damage than breaking the dress, rather than when lifting in high that
holy image, ran down the arms and strange pains prevented him from
use them.

While they sought to avail themselves of all sorts of cruelty and ferocity to give death, the catechumens
from far tried to rescue him, threatening Cozocas coming upon them the wrath of God and give them
their due, as at his own expense they had experienced, and it was because the fear or they should
be made to realize, or because God repressed his pride and give them more bitter pain in his
arms, stood a while and took time and opportunity to the servant of God to come to Mapon, and courteous
and friendly manner gave to know the power of Jesus Christ, even though he and his men they
tried, if not will of His Divine Majesty, you may remove a hair, and their Tinimaacas, though it to
boast that they were lords of heaven and own the world, in the end
there were nothing but miserable spindly creatures condemned to prison
because of her life in hell.

While he spoke thus to Mapon, put God in the eyes of his mercy over
that barbarous and penetrate deeply inside the soul, calmed those
furies, thus, changed the rage in appreciation, he politely stayed
at home, putting the table stocked with the best in the country.

While in this burst at his feet a Gentile, and with tears in his eyes
asked to point baptize him, because he feared much not treacherously
killed there because of some trouble old, and did not want to lose
the life of the soul body. 

This concept was born under the abuse both to his body, taking care so little about him as if
was a beast, with a bowl of rice or corn bad stew, and wild fruits, passed ordinarily, and when
eating undercooked fish, it seemed a great gift.

Finally, it was so detached from earthly things (words of a conmisionero yours) that seemed to
have no inclinations of man, and it was just born to dilate the glory of God and seek the good
of souls, these were his wishes, his desire and that they all himself.

It

is not therefore wonder, that God wanted so ornate crown servant of merit and virtues as most
happy death.

CHAPTER XVI

Conversion of Morotocos and Quies, and discovery of new road for these missions by the river
Paraguay.

Having Fr Juan Bautista de Zea Reduction visited St. Joseph, was ordered
looking for the Tapuyquias Rancherías, so got on track after some
Boxos Indian nation, bringing one of the Tapuyquias who had captured
them when were still heathen.

After many days they came to take a path full of traces of men, where
persuaded the Boxos who had recently passed that the Tapuyquias, when
unexpectedly came to a seed, where he was currently working on an
old Indian with his family.

Mood he perished in sight of us, and with words and gestures of those who prayed, asked them
not to kill him.

Burláronse the Boxos of his plea, and he took all the shock, presenting
a knife; and guiding the old man, who danced with joy with that in
mind, were received from countrymen with great kindness, which corresponded
to the novices by giving them some things Europe, taken in low esteem
among us, but they greatly appreciated.

Did not understand, being of different languages, but with all that, and got hit bring two youths,
who learned the language of the Chiquitos, served after performers.

Tapuyquias these Indians were not, as had been thought, but Morotocos, or as others call them,
Coroinos. They are people of great stature and good forces, use of arrows and spears that make
a hard wood, and handled with great skill.

They are few in number, and by pestilence, as for the wars they bring with neighbors, and also
because being content with only two kill other children, which women are freed from all trouble
and annoyance to thus able to live at will in any dishonesty.

Honor women with the title of ladies, and indeed they are, because
they send their husbands, and their fancy move from place to place,
never put his hand on the estates home, but serve their husbands,
even for humble ministries.

Although they have chiefs and captains, why not have no government
or religion, and have only some reverence to the family of the devil.

The country is the most unfortunate of those nations terroir and surrounded sterile and wild everything
from mountains, and the food is worse than elsewhere, because people just based on nothing but
some roots are abundant forests.

To drink, have a forest of palms, which take the core logs thick and fluffy, to spin the lack
of water supplies.

In the winter it is very cold there and freezes, which the peasants, even go naked, not cause discomfort,
have skin with two fingers of callus, and thus are robust, strong
man and much endurance, so that there are men and women who spend
a hundred years old, and die otherwise healthy old age.

Two young men of this nation saluted much the way Christians live, and then others also, who,
seeing such an abundance of food crops and so fat field, gave great parties waved his style
of extraordinary joy felt, seeing as how they spend their lives comfortably and with less
work, and staying among Christians are promised out of his misery and poverty of their land.

At
the end of June the same year, prevented the P. Felipe Suarez to go to five Rancherías of
Morotocos, to attract people to a knowledge of the true God, but he had to stop some time have
received a letter from P. Visitor and Vice-Provincial Antonio Garriga, in ordering him to happen
to P. Juan Patricio Fernández in the office of Superior of those
Missions for all that, to avoid losing the chance, was there and happily
brought God people, of which many were worried then and wanted to
return to their former miseries, soon as the weather according to
their health, but God reward his toil and hardship servant, who really
were great, especially a ardientísima thirst for five days without
a drop of water to be cooled, is still, at last, and fell all taken
to be Christians and still home in St. Joseph.

With the advent of these were reported as some of other infidels were Quies, confining with
Morotocos, but in a different language, the Curacates, located to the north, the Zamucos, that although
they speak the same language of Morotocos and use their own weapons, however differ from them in that
shaved head as the Toba and Mocovíes, and women dress with more honesty, covering from the
waist to the knees, the Career and Zatienos Ibirayas or who live
next to a salt mine, and other nations to the south, which extend
into the provinces of Chaco very broad.

Received this news, it was after winning to Christ and Quies Curacates, which living on the
banks of a river that flows into the great river Paraguay.

Dispatched, then, beyond some Boxos and Chiquitos, which in a few days came to the lands of Quies,
although resistance did, however, they trusted and were not credit to touch and courtesies
of us, but rather gave them in the face with the havoc them had their weapons past years, it
still retained many signals and scars, with all that, they took with them the neophytes to
a two boys, so that Chiquita learned the language, interpreters were after. Anxious parents
to know the end who had these two boys came into the taper, where they were greeted with great
celebration and joy, and treated by Christians with the same liberality, that were so taken,
that point came after them and then the rest of the people to live in St. Joseph and abide
by the gentle yoke of God's law, and although some families still want to stay on their land, not
knowing at once abandon their farms, by throwing the love of country and native soil gave way,
finally, the zeal of Father Felipe Suarez, when year, 715 came along
way to go and find some missionaries believed Reductions passed the
Guarani to those of the Chiquitos.

For the mission to the Curacates refused to take with you the P. Zea no Indian Chiquito because
they feared the former and flee, and so it was only with some Morotocos.

Arriving at the first Rancheria of Cucarates Zamucos found in it some
who had come to visit him, said unto the Father with the full power
of his spirit, which was great through an interpreter, making them
a rich present of knives, hatchets and wedges or other tools to cultivate
the land.

They did not want to admit this, because Cucarates had become angry
with them, as if they had been moved to visit Father of interest,
and because the were given to the Zamucos the less had to give to
the Cucarates.

Notwithstanding this, the P. Zea forced them to receive him, saying that God would give to
everyone.

Or were not for this, or because they wanted Cucarates not reduce to the holy faith, laid
hold of P. Zea a chieftain of his, and took him aside to kill him, saying he came "to what end to
deceive?

The holy man, who wanted nothing prevented his Christians to defend him, but Morotoco brave,
do not suffer the heart to kill his view that Venerable Missionary with great courage and
determination, was stripped of his hands, saying the chief:

- Why do you want to kill our father, being so good?

Admiring P. Zea (not without pain, lost his chance to see the crown of martyrdom, that was so
close) the action of this barbarian, who shortly before being somewhat less than one Gross,
now was an advocate of the divine law, and their preachers, never ceased to give many thanks
to heaven and to the wounds of our Redeemer, whose blood was as effective in the hearts Barbarians
and inhuman.

But it was not entirely wasted this way the Father Zea, because some families in better condition
fell to St. Joseph, and then little by little, have been following his example the others.

"It was also here to inform the nation individuality of Zamucos, whose leader said he had six towns
on their land as large as that of St. Joseph, then consisted of five hundred Indians, and six middle
and lower, very close to each other, and a large crowd all the same nation and language, and
that there were few villages the banks of a great river running from
east to west, and added the chief brought wars continuing with the
Toba, and other nations Caipotourades their border, which had innumerable
people, from which inferred to be the Chaco, which has had a long
number of Nations, and being and there opened the door for communication
short of those missions in this province thing I always wanted most,
but has not succeeded so far.

"

Now, then, turning away a bit of history, refer the trip, misfortune
and death Apostolic two workers, Joseph de Arce and Bartolome de Blende,
that after a grievous pilgrimage to the Paraguay River, arrived with
no less envy of others who glory you, the safe harbor of eternal bliss.

These,

then, at the end of January 1715 left the port of Asunción escorted to the bank by the governor
of that province and the whole city, which was exposed publicly at the Cathedral of the Blessed
Sacrament that God would give them a very happy trip.

Count, at length, the dangers of falling into the hands of enemies, not less of God than of Spanish,
shipwrecked on rocks, running aground on the sand, the contrariety
of winds, storms in the water and air, it would never end, it seemed
that all hell had touched the gun and left the pit to prevent every
possible effort to the successful achievement this journey, and God,
whose judgments, as David said, are a bottomless pit, let no be accomplished
with an undertaking as required of many towns and cities.

The first contrast they had was the perfidy of the Payaguá, who entertained with good words and
show signs of burning desire to be Christians, tried to surprise treacherously, take away the lives,
and they and the Christian Indians that led, and by setting fire to the ship, steal and take
advantage of the iron nails, but frustrated his wicked secret plan by notice some less inhuman between
them, and yet had dared to go out in the open against them in their
canoes very slight body of two hundred Indians, who, as we shall see
below, finally managed to catch them off guard and kill treacherously.

Later, Guaycurús, valiant people, but sworn enemies of Christ's name and Spanish, at all times
and places, for much of the road space, day and night I played the passage with the weapons and
were always on the lookout to see if they could give upon them and seize the boat and catch or kill
or passengers, and once, to not have, by God's mercy, suddenly a wind up leading the ship to another
place, infallibly have fallen into their hands, resulting in a trap hundreds of these Guaycurús,
that hidden in the water down her throat, waiting to give them, to which the ship to put an bowline
to pass a narrow entrance, which have lowered the flood, it was very
difficult riding.

Finally got rid of its ongoing raids at the expense of a rich present
of knives, wedges iron and a few yards of linen, which the people
of the Guarani sending of alms to the Christianity of the Chiquitos.

Finally, the winds, always contrary, forced them to walk by dint of rowing, and a times the ship
aground on the sand, they were obliged to refloat, to walk away,
transporting cargo to the shore, and others, giving on the rocks,
made them walk in continuous fright and shock.

To this are added the language to take care of the Chiquitos, road and fell whither those missions,
and the infidels, industry, gave them a thousand new happy that came to stop, finally, jeers and
taunts, and God, whose judgments are unsearchable, not allowed which
would give them recognize the beach to the north, where Fr Juan Patricio
Fernández had left some signals, which could be aimed at the reduction
of San Rafael.

And so, sailing to all parts of the river in continual drive, without rest or respite, spent
about seven months to mid August, but did not suffer the heart to overzealous P. Arce frustrate
this journey and many hardships as they had happened the past years took a decision that could
only excuse for his reckless ardientísimo zeal for souls, their trust in God and the love he had to
these missions, as the first Apostle of them, and was that left the boat and picked twelve Indians,
the brave and fervent in faith, undertook travel by land with strong encouragement to seek
the Chiquitos Reductions, even if in danger of falling into the hands
of the barbarians who took his life, or to starve and thirst for those
deserts and unknown lands.

What I suffered in that way for two months, how many fatigues, many
jobs and penalties, not to speak with my words, I will here part of
the relationship did five of his fellow Indians on this trip.

Say, then, and in their relationship:

Father picking up his cross, broke ground Mamore, with four Indians, giving order to the others
that are not from there. A few days later we received a note of hers, which he told us we followed
the other eight, and after a few days away, a smoke we saw in the
distance, we knew where we were, and arrived, we were welcomed with
open arms but we did not have all day to reach the mouth.

Seeing the anguish and work of the Father, we went back four to the
ship, and taking some food, returned to seek the Father with all haste,
We found a just, because others, not having what to eat, had gone
to a rabbit fencing with fire.

With so many jobs and lack of food and drink had been such that only
her skin on bone.

It was amazing the joy you had when you saw us, hugging, bathing their tears in his eyes.

We continued the trip, walking a day by a very thick forest, and such
was the thicket they did not know where we were.

Being the Father in this anguish, not knowing what to do or where
to turn, told us:

- Children, who were tired of the work, turn the
boat.

They replied all with one accord, which were prepared to follow him
wherever he went; that day we had no other water to drink but a swamp
of terrible smell.

We walked to the shore of the Paraguay River, where having hunted a deer, we were afflicted the
lack of water, but digging one of our colleagues a well, by great
providence of God, to two fathoms discovered a vein of water.

We spent the night here, and entering the following day in a thick wood, we were obliged lead the
way with great fatigue and sweat to get out of him to open campaign.

Then judged P. Joseph already eaten and we were tired of so much trouble and penalties, so we turned
to say:

- He who wishes to become, turn in good time, I am determined to go forward and to fulfill the will
of God and my superiors. One or more years in these forests walk if God wants me to stay alive
until the desired doneness.

If you find infidels we will stand between them and teach them God's law.

Such verve and such encouragement was the P. Joseph, afflicted with hunger, thirst, fatigue, and
of nudity (because they're sleeping next to the fire burned his poor
cassock) caused no small wonder that, being so lacking in strength,
was barely standing, not doubt lead Later, much to his expense, a
business so difficult and almost desperate.

Encouraged by his breath and spirit, we entered a thick forest, where
the holy man, from by shrubs and trees, armed with spines harsh everywhere,
let those rags of his robe that had escaped the fire, falling at every
step without being able to lift, with that was necessary to shake
his hand.

In this way, with great fatigue, we reached a river where some fish recovered fished, where we
stopped shortly before had been an army of infidels.

I was already so finishing forces Fr Joseph, who was very little I could walk, and between Thus
several days went by without his mouth but a little wild fruit.

It was admirable patience and serenity of mind in these sets, without
showing the slightest feeling when I had nothing to eat, spending
time absorbed in God, and every morning, before set out, knelt a long
distance.

We found some wild fruit that only made us eat the extreme necessity.

Some browsers that were discovered before a smoke in the distance, that we all great joy.

In early October, we stopped at the edge of a river, where we could make good with fish and turtles
that are at a lagoon. We continued on and we totally missed the food and drink, and we had nothing
to give to the Father but some palmettos, who first served us food,
but after experiencing evil purposes, causing great pain to the Father
of the stomach, and inflammation of the bowels fierce with thirst
ardientísima.

In this condition he ran both the forces and consumed so believing it to be already reached
the end of his life, begged us to lead him on the banks of a river, and leaving us there we
returned to Paraguay.

Hallámonos in great distress, not only why we said, because his face
was as over corpse of living body and wanting comfort, could not utter
a word because they have been swollen tongue.

We, those most hurt to the loss of life of the Father as our own, said resolutely he wanted to
stay in all jobs, and even their lives if necessary.

Recobróse a little, and giving encouragement to the nature of the
force of spirit, he set out falling and rising at every step, and
the fourth day, finding a bit of wild honey, it Father present to
slake the thirst.

Being one of us in a tree, he saw a cloud of smoke toward the west,
which had done Indian Christian P. Zea back from the shores of the
Paraguay river, as we discovered later; and walking over there, we
wanted to take the Father in a hammock, because he feared much few
steps if he would fall dead on his feet, but he refused saying he
wanted to have with us until the last moment of his life.

The next day was Friday, we did not find anything to eat, and Saturday, by God's providence, we
took some hunting and a turtle for the Father.

At last it pleased God to comfort, uncovering the desired path as the Chiquitos. Amazing was
the joy that was the holy man, not ceasing to give thanks, and encourage one to tears in the
eyes to see us do the same, intoned the Litany of Our Lady, and coming
soon after the place where the day before had said Mass P. Juan Bautista
de Zea, we gathered together at all, and more tears than words, he
thanked us many jobs as we passed it, and that his life would remember
us.

This comfort became worth recognizing that lost their holy Christ
and searched all parts could not be found, and all that night they
hit the eyes at the loss of their Lord, who had given so much encouragement
and strength to those anxieties, until the desired doneness.

The next day we had water supplies and fish, and we encounter with two Christians who had The
portable altar P. Zea, we headed there. What were the greetings and happiness of these two apostolic
missionaries to be together after so many hardships, we can not explain,
because the more they talked with her eyes and sighs with the language.

So

far the relationship of the Indians.

Q. Just arrived Arce to San Rafael, when not taking a break to recover, by P. advice Superior,
set off towards the lagoon Mamore, whose path, though more short, it was like the past.
Arrived there was the possible measures to find the P. Blende and
the boat, but was in vain, because this, after having waited a long
time, it was obligated to violence from their peers.

At this time
received a letter from P. Vice-Provincial in which he warned that
waiting for him, because wanted to embark.

Answered, P. Arce was
stopped in San Rafael Reverence, that he would in a canoe to the Payaguá,
who have already won for his encouragement and affection, promised
to lead him to Asuncion, where in April the following year, again
to take you.

Do not wait for an answer Fr Provincial, but then went
on the road to Mamore along with Fr Zea, who after five months of
laborious missions in those deserts, offered to serve as a guide,
and what is most admired because he was determined, if not The boat
was soon P. Arce, to make a few canoes and drive them to P. Vice-Provincial
to the Assumption, through many dangers and enemies. 

Now there is hope to establish another, with the name of Our Father San Ignacio, south, in Zamucos,
which are over two hundred thousand souls, and immediately the Ugarana, who have the same people.

Zamucos
such as we saw in Chapter XIX how rose and fled, killing his brother
Alberto Romero and his colleagues Chiquitos.

Not so lost our hopes of reducing Missionaries, before the more opposition was the devil, are more embarrassed
to remove their claws hell these souls.

Then sought to shape, how to reduce them again.

To this effect entered the PP. Philip Smith and Augustine and having traveled ninety Castañares
leagues, arrived at a village Zamucos, and then it was reduced.

The following year came the PP. Agustin Jaime Aguilar and Castañares, and having left to April
29, walked the ninety miles that year and found desert history the
people they were before.

Later spent twenty leagues to another town where he led the defeat. Found it to its residents,
who welcomed peace.

Would be that people called Cucutades, fifty families, governed by three main chiefs, one of
whom was absent.

After much clamor of the infidel them Parent proposed to his departure to that land, which was
to stay between them and help them as to the Chiquitos.

Thank unbelievers visiting, and one after another said the two main
Parents did not want on their land, they slept there that night and
the next day return, because if they want to stay would move elsewhere.

Parents

felt this much unexpected response, but with all that they expected that resolution would move
later, and in truth, they pretended they saying then liked and for them to stay among them, rather
than always were referred to the views of the main missing, and said come and in good spirits.

Esperáronle
from the 27th of May, and this delay, to win the will of the people,
thirty spots were distributed to the Indians, which is what they cherish,
and to the many Indian beads, with which everyone was happy, as unbelievers
and Christians Parent Chiquitos, though among them there were those
who reached the pretense of the barbarians.

They waited until Saturday, the eve of the Holy Trinity, which came
the main missing, and was sucking and sorcerer.

Came screaming in her village and plaza, saying he was god of those lands and people and that
they were the Parents where he was.

The Fathers, seeing that it was necessary then use gravity to bring down the pride of that Minister
of the devil, he replied that they had to go, but he had to come where they were. At last he did
so. He came where were the parents, they received him seated. Say what the other two major had
said before, I did not want Padres on their land, because the Parents
are their children die and other such nonsense, adopted by all the
people, arming and grime all but one of the principal who had now
been before and was half in doubt.

At this time other people came away the killer's brother Albert with twelve or Thirteen of his men,
who with his persuasions confirmed the people in their resolution.

Parents watching their hardness, were obliged to turn around, as they did, and came the village
she had left on June 16, carrying ten souls who wanted to own in itself to go with them to become
Christians Reduction, though the Padres were not without hope that others would follow after,
as in fact happened, and to these and with others.

Because giving them infidels and having no deaths Ugarana a and the other hand, came to San
Juan two biases that were twenty families and came to those people to February 25, 1723.

They were from two villages in Zamucos; the one called Quiripecodes, came to the chief Sofiáde
two brothers, Albert and brother killers of ten families in which
there were fifty souls.

The other, called Cucutades came Omate captain, who was the last year had put the fathers of all
their lands, and brought nine families of their vassals, who were
forty and two souls.

Ninety-two, then, without being called and guests now came running from the Ugarana they made
war and said they would come after others. But having fallen ill plague all, were terrified
and said they wanted parents to their lands, which granted be returned
to them.

For this reason, on June 30 released on P. Superior of the Missions Francisco Hervás with P. Reduction
Castañares to found among them.

They arrived after forty days' journey to the towns of Zamucos, they found totally deserts in search
of them was alone with the Indians P. Chestnut, and so far no know what has stopped.

Fr Hervas Francisco Superior came to the indigenous peoples so prostrate with fatigue strength
and his continued ailments, that having to be there in a most helpless, was obliged to become,
and having arrived fifteen leagues from San Juan, we went to confess P. Juan Bautista Xandra, aplicóle
a remedy, which encouraged Fr Hervás and was able to shoulder Indians
at San Juan, where she was given the other sacraments and applied
some other remedies, but without effect, for being very weak and burning
fevers, and finally died Two days later, to August 24, 1723, taking
61 years of age, 44 and 27 Company profession of votes.

And although his heroic virtues and great works of justice demanded
hiciese relationship is life here, but the lack of news on the distance
we impugn Now in this example and consolation to another day.

And this is what has so far been done to reduce to the Zamucos, which
we hope will happily get the fervent zeal Missionaries.

LAUS DEO.

PROVINCIAL MEMORIAL

P. JOSEPH BARREDA

THE MARQUIS DE Valdelirios

MEMORIAL

THE P. OF
THE PROVINCE

OF

PARAGUAY

SUBMITTED TO THE LORD

MARQUIS DE Valdelirios

THAT
WILL APPEAL

SUSPEND THE RULES OF WAR

AGAINST THE INDIANS OF MISSIONS.

Cordoba

de Tucuman

1753.

Royal Commissioner, the Marquis of Valdelirios:

Joseph Barreda, of
the Society of Jesus, Superior Provincial of Paraguay, it seems to
VS in force for the Royal Commission is understood in the treaties
dividing line between the two Crowns of Spain and Portugal, will serve
as the cries heard in justice that the province wishes to express
its most faithful allegiance to that until now this has obeyed blindly
and quickly return the royal charters and all orders lead to the evacuation
of seven villages in missions that are between the river and the banks
Abiquy Uruguay river that, according to the usual treaty, to be delivered
to the domains of Portugal, and leaving the Indians who now inhabit
other territories belonging to the Crown Spain, transferring to them
their property and livestock and making new towns and churches, plow
land to keep their fruit.

To this end, and he has to VS that before arriving in Buenos Aires
and to this province, had actuated all the steps that allowed me time
to comply with the provisions effective MRP our General, who with
equal commitment prevented us if possible we had those people evacuated
before he reached his hand VS and we might receive the ballot papers
in which the King our Lord sent us the same, and indeed, when received,
whether had begun to conquer the will of the Indians with the powerful
persuasions the Missionaries and I had mentioned in my place while
going in person to enforcement of the Ordinances, and having agreed
to leave their villages, they began to leave them some explorers in
search of relevant sites and lands for transmigration what has to
VS and P. Luis Altamirano by letters from the missions in response
orders received in that city, where he also sent me some land map
provided somewhat less, though all are apart of the seven towns, some
do not were far less than 200 miles of them for the move which map
showed and gave to V. S. as proof of prompt obedience to that from
the first notice and order of MRP General began to act and were acting
in the most appropriate measures for the desired attempt.

But among the serious difficulties that were offered in such an arduous endeavor, I did this VS to
that most intractable and even was in the limited time that was granted for such vast transmigration,
which, in view of the most experienced parents of those countries was physically impossible in
the narrow space of six months, because it moved and still convinced Fr Commissioner Luis Altamirano
to ask VS to grant at least three years term, This also represented the King our Lord, making
a demonstration that in less time was attempting an impossible and thus compel their subjects
rendered not to execute according to the same natural forces that wanted to obey.

But having no fixed time determined by VS, but was prevented only with all brevity and title other
than to pity any culpable omission dissemble, had to pass Fr Commissioner Luis de Altamirano in person
to these missions, and put them started with imponderable commitment, zeal and efficiency to act
was committed, with such heartfelt desire that were run after all warned that no mistake or
omitted to take action instantly the performance of its prudent orders and means that were
so quick to PP. Missionaries to obey its mandates, which forces them even the PP. elderly
and sick worked to encourage the Indians, sometimes with prayers and other threats, making
them of the obligation they had to obey his master and how well they would be exposed to the
fatigue and even lose their property to prove their past loyalty.

But as the slow and spacious natural Indian violence was either accelerated motion, and its
delayed and low intelligence was so strange and intelligible novelty which were proposed by
conceiving very contrary to the peaceful possession of their homes, crops and property have
very close his heart, a few days of what had promised to the PP., began calling deception
and excuse, and with the short time they were given, and with the many jobs prevented them in the
ways in transporting their cattle, goods and families, and more re
hard to build new churches and houses, and declaring resistant, appealed:
some would be less bad to stay under the dominion of the Portuguese,
but others, who were more clearly said they could not believe that
the King our Lord, who for so many cards they had promised to protect
them and defend their lands of their enemies, could fail to respect
and have promised to remove the natural law that had acquired and
owned by more 130 years, because for so rigorous punishment were not
having committed any sin against King, before, yes, they were very
satisfied with the services they had repeatedly tried prove their
obedience, giving their blood and lives to defend their sovereign
domains.

These and other reasons, they have fixed in their memories, sought the PP. dispel many expressions
are all dictated by his desire, and that the Indians might be able; but not having to respond to
the vivid and effective appeals of the Fathers had fully closing their ears to their voices, and
breaking the brake of obedience, which for many years had sugetado, began to break his respect,
saying out loud did not want could not move because this will be their king and lord, but the invention
of the PP. that secretly had agreed with the Portuguese through P.
Commissioner, to whom they as such, and even claimed some had known
him lay in the Rio de Janeiro, but not giving up Parent of its efforts,
before it, agreeing to not only persuade them to private reasons,
but fervent convert to public preaching, called to the churches, and
a crucifix in his hands, and some on their knees and shed many tears,
I intimated that they should expect punishment from the hand of God
and His sovereign king if they did not obey soon its mandate, in this
powerful assault force was cut to the Indians, and asking forgiveness
for his disobedience, vowed again amended, beginning with the PP.
Then, and before to cool the fervor, to have horses, wagons and other
equipment to undertake the road, which in reality led out some of
the PP., ranging as leaders to enforce its slowness and interior desolation,
but a few days, with the jaded road and dragged them to love their
homes, they were returning to their villages, leaving them PP. alone
and mocked in the countryside, but not by that gave up the PP. this
enterprise, before, yes, conservative concealing his contempt and
inconstancy, they returned to find them, upbraiding as promised, but
they, and quite unrepentant and even spiteful, took on average to
get rid of the instances of the PP., threatening with death, really
Father tried to give the parish priest of San Miguel, and now his
companion Father was in the stays, which would certainly have died
if the order of P. Commissioner, that informed of his danger, had
not been removed fugitives, because it showed their depraved mind
a young man who accompanied Fr Cura, returning shortly after the people
to take some horses it shattered them released.

This same contempt tried to do with Fr Commissioner, 600 men for preventing Irlo to search
the village where he lived, and having been advised by five eminent voices danger of his life,
had to retire wisely, understanding that his presence irritated his anger, and that withdrawal
could settle this blind passion.

After that came the P. Commissioner continued the PP. Missionaries who was obeying the instead,
without flagging a point in your quest, but no more fruit than the angry Indians every day, continuing
their threats and venting his anger in the magistrates, as Ministers
of the Fathers, who have used that, persuading his way, encourage
by example, but they also have attempted to kill, and to one of them
only the grief of its dangers and died a few days after he was rushed,
and four others were this badly wounded, and without courage or hope
of resisting the Indians who are faithfully persuaded that the PP
is fiction. and no will of his King to take away the land have owned
for more than 130 years, whose right it has repeatedly confirmed its
sovereign bonds and that this good faith have made a few people who
are not as they say villages, but exceeding their factories to most
of the cities, etc..

These provinces, in their homes and sheltered
tiled roofs of stone corridors to walk by them without getting wet
rainy season and that their churches are so gorgeous, that has the
least cost to their jewelry, they came to 100,000 pesos fuertes, outside
the San Miguel they worked for ten years and 80 daily, and 100 men
whose factory is all stone, when valued at least $ 200,000, we add
the tender memories of their herbal gardeners, who have raised and
spent in his neat work and culture more than thirty years for being
the fruit of the continued drink morning and evening, and whose value
in the 7 villages will be 100,000 pesos, also are turning to their
fields of cotton, fruit that makes them the yarns and their fabrics
for underwear and outerwear they wear big and small, widows and orphans,
whose value in the 7 people is not below the herbal, and ultimately
do this to let people out of their in their rooms more than 100,000
head of livestock of sheep, cows, horses and mules that serving and
maintaining their lives and those of their families and almost all
villages Uruguay and Parana, which was and is here replaced the cattle
of their stays to avoid they ran at all for them not for their smallness
and quality able to multiply, they need for support and service, and
see that having to move these cattle to other land is for them impossible
task and find themselves not for them, and because as though he had
imagined at a distance of over a hundred leagues, his leadership is
to his imagination another hard impossible, and if his eyes closed
the wished difficulty overcome, this is a function that calls, a few
months time, but of years, with very bent fatigue.

These thoughts have opposed tough PP. warning them that the cattle could not out, it would pay the
King our Lord as it was prevented, to which they respond not be maintained or with money or with
promises but with the heads of their cattle, and so, although they were paid in gold doubloons,
will not buy it where necessary for their livelihoods and in the meantime will perish of hunger
in the desert where the parents love get banished, and that ultimately sad cry sometimes with groans
and others with rabid furor ask parents what crime they have committed against their king and
master for punishment worthy of the most treacherous vassals. To this end are very tender memory
card 28 December 1743 in which he looked Mr. Philip V of glorious memory, give pleasure of
their services (as others sent the governor of Buenos Aires D. Bruno Zavala they are made acquainted
by public crier) and keeping in mind the words of the last paragraph, which are:

"And finally, in recognition of what is referred to in the above points
and other ancient and modern papers, seen in my counsel with the reflection
that asks business circumstances so severe, that is justified true
facts did not in any part of India more return to my domain and vassalage
and of these peoples, or the Royal Patronage and jurisdiction Real
church and so rendered as verified by the frequent visits of church
prelates and governors and are blind obedience to his orders, especially
when they are called to defend the land or any other company, 4,000
or 6,000 men getting ready armed to go where they send, and so on.

"

Now therefore, the Indians say the Fathers, if we obeyed our sovereign, he himself declares,
and the rebellion has sugetado Paraguay with 12,000 armed men and stripping twice the Portuguese
colony of Sacramento, and being the third time in encircling it with 6,000 men for four months,
we also won if not pregnant and lately the Spanish king renouncing our lord over a million
hard dollars that were to be spent on these expeditions we stayed to our coast and our sweat
and labor, ask me again, Parents, these are crimes to punish us our King with perpetual exile of our
people and houses and universal deprivation of all our real estate and furniture? This scheme can
only be misleading the Portuguese, and collision of you with them and treason from us your
are arming beginning of our conversion, and not without reason is We fear our ancestors, and
finally, the treason that no excuses with them, because you could not want to run the now with us
or our poor children.
 He lives in a house well dressed, as it industry
of those barbarians, and sometimes, to enjoy more frequent visits from heaven, withdrew alone
into the wilderness.

Those who want to come into this office, before having a beard, begin to learn the ceremonies
and accustomed to dealing with the gods. To this is often the most venerable Mapon catch on arms
to the learner, put to look at the moon when full, stretch the fingers by sending that nails
grow longer, take the air and put you in the womb of the goddess Quipoci; miserable returns
of those afflicted and faint ecstasy, so that just after many days,
regained his strength.

Beyond this, observe fasting and abstinence most rigorous imprisonment of certain animals and fruits
singularly passion fruit, is commonly called Passion Flower, being portrayed in it the means
of our redemption. Neither are content to be revered demons of his priests with fasting and penance,
but you have to send everything to rigorous fasts the people. One, among others, is similar
to ours and which is stored in the dedication the temple, in which for five days can not eat meat,
and dressed in mourning the Rancheria is prohibited music, banquets and dances. Closely silence
and not spent the time other than in weaving mats for the ornament
of the Tabernacle.

The final day placed in the church open house, stocked with the best in the country.

To make a start to the festival, the devout old woman and apparently most holy, welcoming the
chief with reverent inclination, head low, slightly wounding the chief three times with curiously
carved stone, then turns to his knees around the temple with large sighs and devotion, then the
Mapon blesses all parts of the temple to sanctify, and other ceremonies,
too numerous to count, establishes that place, and finally, it concluded
the party with great food and celebrating a solemn feast of music
and dance.

About the last end and eternal bliss, have these blind idolaters many
mistakes.

They believe the immortality of souls, whom he called Oquipau, and have to live and rejoice
forever in the sky, to where are his priests.

When a man dies his funeral will take place more or less, depending on your area. After the mother
and wife of the deceased go to the temple with his offering, getting near the tabernacle.
Come then the devil, and pretending to be the one the soul of the deceased, comforting words
to the woman tender, caring, giving hope that soon be seen again in Paradise, then the soul
Mapon sprayed with water to clean off the stains of sins, as we us with holy water and that
the soul takes leave of his mother and wife. The point Mapon he throws his back and flying high,
leaving the woman crying to his misfortune you have news of her husband. Mapon returns after
a long time, with good tidings, telling her to wipe away the tears,
stop mourn and lay down their mourning because her husband is enjoying
the blissful life of the gods and then wait for the company ever in
the sky.

Thing worth knowing is the journey that makes Mapon with the soul and what it have to reach Paradise.

The
country through which it passes is all forests, mountains and valleys, where rivers are many,
and the backwaters of lakes and large reservoirs, for which passage is spend many days, great
difficulty to reach a crossroads of many paths, beside which runs a large river, there is a
wooden bridge, which assists in day and night, a god named Tatusiso, whose job is to go through
that bridge the souls and put them on the road Mapon the sky.

The suit and carrying this time God is one in which fantasy is crazy
poets Charon to his pale countenance, the ghastly face, bald head,
covered body sores and filth, and dressed in a rag to cover themselves
honestly.

This god ever lower to the church to hear the prayers of his devotees, because his office never gives
a truce, for pedestrians at all hours has to pass.

It often happens that while passing the Mapon with the soul, especially if it's a boy Tatusiso asks
for it stops to clean the filth, and if it so refuses, he suffers sometimes, but not a few, burning
with rage, grabs the soul and throws it to be swamped on the River.

Here say that originate thousand misfortunes in the world, and for these blunders people are
believed to be worth the demon of some natural events are confirmed these wretches in their belief.

Little
has happened in the land of the Jurucarés, which cuts the sky in copious rains the crops were lost.
Afflicted and bereaved people, begged the Mapon should ask to their gods the cause of this
misfortune. They replied that they knew, and was, being to heaven the soul of a child whose father
lived there, treated with little reverence to Tatusiso, and did not want to leave clean, so,
angered that god, put it in the river. " Hearing this his father was beside himself out of pure pain,
and grieving thus causing compassion because he loved as his own life, and because she could not
enjoy him in this world, he consoled judging, at least as happy and
blessed in heaven.

Alentóle the Mapon giving good I hope if a small boat getting ready to go to him from deep river.

Then
the father prepares a canoe, and Mapon, carry on their backs, blew and disappeared soon after he
calmed down the sky, which became the Mapon with glad tidings but
the boat never appeared.

Paradise where souls rest is rather poor in content and pleasures. Pretend that there in it some
very thick trees that exude a kind of rubber that kept souls and there are monkeys that seem
to look Ethiopian, who is also a bit of honey and fish; revolves
around the place a great eagle who pretend many ridiculous fables,
worthy of compassionate tears for the blindness of these people.

There are so many gods are many mansions in Paradise, but the goddess Quipoci makes many advantages to
other comforts and wealth. The Isituucas, or gods of water, have supplied the sky fish, bananas
and parrots, and here enjoy their eternal bienaventuraza drowning in the river, to which so called
Asinerás; to those who die in forests and jungles Iriticús, and those
who die at home Posibacas; making merit, not in the works, but in
the diversity of places where death takes.

Enough to have hinted that the barbarous idolatry of Manacas so you
can do some concept of toil and hardship suffered by the venerable
P. Lucas win them to Christ.

END OF VOLUME ONE

Printing was finished Volume XII of the collection
of books about America, in Madrid, in the press of Thomas Minuesa,
Juanelo street, no. 19 to April 8, 1895.

VOLUME II

LIBRARY AND PUBLISHING HOUSE

OF

A. URIBE AND COMPANY

Asuncion,
Paraguay.

1896

CHAPTER XIII

VP Lucas Caballero continues its mission of Manacas.

Viewing fervorosísimo operator a new field in which to sow the word Evangelical to collect no less
souls to heaven merits for himself, wished to hand as soon as possible to the work, however,
wisely considering that it was necessary to also attend many Catechumens
and had in the town of San Francisco Xavier, and it was better to
have fewer and Many well indoctrinated and ignorant, that despite
winning easily, as easily also lost, he determined to spend most of
that year in this exercise, using all industries of his charity and
his zeal in rooting of Xaviere barbarism lust, drunkenness and woes
few brutal life brings, and print them the virtues and good habits
needed to live as Christians.

However, in the midst of this effort made a few forays into the countries discovered by encouraging
in those people's wishes to receive the holy baptism, and together taking notice of how many
were Rancherías, languages ​​and the number of Indians in the country, and having different relationship
all, I pondered the following year to take more heat conversion business, and serenity time
penetrating deeper into the earth, but he balked at hand, these designs the ailments that afflicted
him long time, and the pleas of their neophytes from San Xavier,
mudase begged him to another place Reduction, to be the cause of this
climate that had, significantly harmful to health.

For that reason could not by mid October, when the weather threatened to rain out with some
of the most fervent, which, comforted by the soul with the bread
God of the Eucharist, had offered his life for proclaiming the holy
name of God to the living in the dark shadows of infidelity.

Iban these, however, sad and heartbroken to be persuaded to have had no good end his journey, and
for the many rains with which they began to sink campaigns, and having
found the path strewn with razor-sharp spikes driven into the ground
with subtle cunning for enemies of faith, to retract to move forward.

These fears faded quickly, because a few leagues and did not find these tips and the storms of
heaven is not far ahead went before were just drinking water, and great job having climbed a mountain
very sour, they had two days off which thirst, but with moist clay, squeezed, more like food
you drink. But God, Our Lord, who never forsakes needs his men, hastened
to that of P. Lucas with a copy of crystal clear water, which beyond
all hope, found in the hollow of a tree.

Finally, having reached the first settlements, these people found their constant first attempts,
and only had to do in pave a great difficulty, and was taking away discord and make peace,
because among other evils to which incited the infernal enemy, was
an irritation to each other and sow discord among them to take soul
winning.

Spake with great earnings power of peace, discovering the fraud and
deception the enemy who wanted nothing more than them for their evil
companions in this life, and the eternal torments of hell in the other.

Convinced

those barbarians of the reasons, and moved by the pleas of the Apostolic Father promised to make
friends with the lands bordering and then with the remote.

Having stopped there two days for this, he proceeded along with some civilians. A whole day spent
on passing a craggy mountain, great work and risk, not Indians accustomed to easily climb the
rocks, but the Father, and must remain so halt to the skirt, not found to have breakfast, for
which a Christian nation Manaca, moved of compassion, he wanted to compose some herbs that were
the delight of their gods, but by far they were to fire, never could cook. However, the famine
and hunger are the was tasty, and smiling, said: "Great Hunger and heat have much in the stomach
is gods, that such meats they eat. "

Taking the devil so consistently bad in the missionary saint, sought with all the effort possible, dispel
their designs, and making the Indians lost their way, already pregnant the steps, making shooting
the horse, and wounding with tree branches, and sum up the thorns and thistles abused her body,
and flies, with their shrill stings, mortified him so that he could hardly stand and was necessary
for removed and neophytes will go up on horseback.

Finally, in spite of hell, came to view the Zibicas, but before entering the Rancheria, sent forward
to Numani, Christian fervorosísimo, to recognize if they were ready to receive the faith he had
not much to do, because the unfortunate death of that the year before had dared to put his
hands on him, he had persuaded the servant God was close friend of
the devil, and therefore he should be hosting, not by some out of
their souls, but that does not cause any bodily harm.

Seeing the good P. Lucas was there little hope of sowing the Gospel seed, owing of poor opinion of
him had, was entrusted to himself and the chief to the smooth and powerful grace the Holy Spirit,
and calling him aside, tried it first with the best way he could
take head that mistake, and then told him to his coming, and it would
receive if embracing the holy law of Jesus Christ.

As he spoke the Father, God entered the soul of the barbarian with a ray of divine light; Hopefully,
well not yet entirely student, went to preach as a teacher in his village I did not need much of
the teaching of his words when he had plenty of the example of his
Mapon to induce him to do the same.

It was the young son of one who had sworn blood drinking Servant of God, if the sky with death
wishes he would have tackled.

To win him to the holy faith, engaged a Christian, and his fellow
young also called Diego, and was reduced to a few sets, because he
had not yet corrupted the heart with malice; and more by ignorance
of the understanding that unwillingness of the will, it was not well,
because they knew the truth.

Having won that night to two of the main, it was not long in joining the people the next day,
and after a long argument to the mysteries of our Holy Fe, and obligations to live a Christian, made
the holy man lifted a cross and near her arm the portable altar with images of Christ our
Lord, the Blessed Virgin and St. Michael the Archangel, and kneeling all deeply adored, screaming
aloud: "Jesus Christ, our Lord, thou art our father, Our Lady, You, madam, are our Mother
"and not content with this, they repeated the same with great celebration and joy and dancing,
tours more than the devotion of art. With this show were crying with joy neophytes, giving many
thanks to the Redeemer, whose blood could be seen as clear and manifest effects on the conversion
of these people, but incomparably greater the joy of P. Lucas, who
flooded the heart of heavenly consolation, turning to look up to heaven,
exclaimed:

"Conténtome, my God, work and pay my sweats, to see that
you recognize creatures by their Creator and Lord.

Only they love you and adore you, I do not want an award. "

It pleased God to these offerings, it is allowed me to search out, and perhaps, in generous
award ceremony, Her Majesty gave some of these barbarians a gift so great of faith, before receiving
baptism, kept uncorrupted, and wanted more to lose life by martyrdom, to deny it.

Singularly worthy of eternal memory of the persecution he suffered Mapon common enemy; which, with
a brief interruption, I refer here, although it happened years later.

Pesábales much to be deprived the demons of that domain Rancheria, which for many centuries had
been to his devotion, used all his cunning and diabolical power to reduce his old religion and
worship, and appearing to that fervent Christian, who had previously been their beloved minister,
rebuked him harshly, because he, whom played by trade, did their part to return to its former worship,
churches and sacrifices. Can not you see (they said) that the chief Payaizá has desecrated the altars,
broke the sacred vessels and defied the Tabernacles, and the chief has left the sumptuous Potumaní
factory, which had designed for us have been fooled by the foolishness and follies of this traitor
cursed you have to distort the magic art understandings, fables and mysteries preached, and how
many lies will come to the imagination? Becomes, therefore, in your agreement, and yet the
power of authority and reasons, restored the ruins of religion, worship and beam restored remind
people of their promises, and the chief of its obligations, because if not, I swear to do great
damage to the common people, which serve as an example, and the memory of terror throughout
the country.

The earnest young man laughed his threats, and even though it insisted,
could never get you said in public a single word in your subscription.

Offended pride over such contempt diabolical, fell upon him, and a fierce storm of many cruel blows,
he stepped on, injured and abused so much that he were shed in great abundance at the mouth
of blood, and even though repeated blows, but reduced it to the last danger of life, never able
to contrast his record.

Tan had cast deep roots in their hearts faith and piety, that P. Lucas, and through him the
Holy Spirit had been planted in his heart.

A friend took pity on his work, he urged that, at least on the outside, might show some respect
to the demons and give them pleasure, talking to the chief to manufacture them his church.
But he was angry, he put them off by saying I wanted to finish the
life he had before to miss one iota to the law that profess Jesus
Christ, whom he recognized only by God and Lord.

As a Christian heroic virtue so new, could not fail to be rewarded of God he restored it to its
former health and strength.

Turning now to the story line, baptized children, not only that, but other Ranches, treated
P. Lucas to go to the Quiriquicas, but the neophytes, owing to the
winter threatening, undertook reluctantly, that trek: but representing
to the P. Lucas the reward that God would reward his labors in the
sky, encouraged therefore that felt incredibly comforted to continue
and take it.

All that remained was to persuade the chief Patozi to come with his subjects to make way through
dense forests, and together to make peace with Quiriquicas because cacique feared, with a
great foundation, had to remove the Quiriquicas life, by the implacable hatred that had, however this
difficulty, beat the boss for the journey reverence and love that the Father had, and took a select
squad of heavily armed soldiers, necessary just in case, he went after the Father, but he
said no use of weapons but when necessary to defend their lives from enemy arrows, that so played
to himself, nothing was given to live or die, and as was pleasing
to God and his honor, willingly shed blood to advance the divine glory.

A

neophyte imitation, left arms, offered to accompany him in danger and putting to risk his life
and had no one who neglects his orders, he put the tip of everyone to an Indian saint, Juan
Quiara, beloved by all, even to the Gentiles, by the goodness of life and innocence of their
customs.

Set things in this way, they set out, and had no little to do first with a very thick forest,
they spent a few days to open, then with the hungry, not finding how sustenance, but a wild fruit
that only the scarcity of other food was sweet and tasty; conocióse then the tenderness of affection
and reverence that had the P. Gentile Lucas, because seeing dejection, and that the amount could
barely weakness have standing, he was wanted at the expense of hard work, a little honey, and
food were removed the mouth to have to do to keep their forces.

When they were about two Christians came forward to reconnoitre the ground and watch the movements
of the peasants, wanting to enter without being felt in the Rancheria, to not be afraid or
brought to the flight, but Patozi, the chief, with wise caution, said it was in vain that diligence,
because the demons had warned as early as Mapon, and through them to the captains. And telling
the truth, because a few days before, being with the people for their usual devotions, the devil
went down to the Tabernacle Cozoriso, and looking sad and melancholy, he warned of the coming
of a jury that his enemy had been banished from other countries, bringing in his hand a cross,
which was the ruin of his religion, and saying he burst into a hearty crying, and feeling sorry
for himself, that where would you go in games over there? Where could be safely repaired to
not be evicted?

That therefore, if you loved, tomasen then arms, and the value, and the strong arm, held up his
cult, which other lot would fall to the ground quickly.

With such new whole town was shocked and at the same point was turned
into anger and rage against any damage to machines something of religion,
but not the Mapon, arguing that and inferring how great men and greater
than their gods should be the one to whom the gods feared responded
with angry voice and gesture:

"If the stranger is your enemy you
why you let him safe passage?

Why not one adds in the world, or at least so far from here, not put to risk your reputation?
Is this your power? If you need our weapons to defend yourself, or you are not what you show, or
you show be what you are not. "

This conclusion, deduced from the principles of natural reason, was enough for the grace the Holy
Spirit in a little penetrated his heart, and a blight that was hell made him an angel of Paradise.

The
chiefs and nobles, together in Council, determined to throw the rest
of their strength and power to repair the damage and ruin of his religion,
but not without fear of leaving their attempts when even their own
gods feared.

While these people were under arms and confusion, came forward with
the Holy Missionary Patozi and two boys very earnest, leaving all
the other people a bit distant.

Just the spies spotted from afar, shouting very out of touch when they fled inland, and behind
them, with his cross in his hand, went horseback Fr Lucas, because the wounds of the legs are
not allowed to go on foot.

Countrymen, put in order, met him to cope, and games two wings, surrounded
him that I had nowhere to free passage anywhere to flee.

Things being in this state, he was offered a Christian boy fly a picture Mother of God, in his hand,
and with the confidence that the gracious Lady would use then its power to deliver them from that
danger, lifted up, and so was looking at the barbarians, who lose
the use of arms, unable to shoot the arrows that were already on the
point, bows and arrows.

Amazed and terrified of this happening the barbarians, apprehensive that worse did not happen,
fled hastily retreating to a forest not far from where no one dared
to leave, staying for God's providence an Indian of them called Sonema,
after helped a lot for the conversion.

The next day, the Apostolic Father, though he could not keep up, not the heart suffers enthroned
see the devil in two temples, made to carry him past his companions, cast down Tabernacles those
infamous land, shattered statues and lighting in a square large fire, it burned all the trappings
and ornaments of the wicked idolatry, not without fear of their rookies,
who were suspicious about them not giving the barbarians, offended
that affront of their gods, to avenge the insult. 

Quatí barely knew, the principal chief of all, the most fervent in the desire to receive holy baptism,
when leaving himself with grief, went around to all his subjects to avenge the deaths of the
Padres.

Offenders, seeing that they could not escape the fury of that brave chief, called on their
behalf to the Guaycurús, but even so the Quatí undertook with great value, and to the first attack
killed more than a few of the accomplices, the other, unable to resist, they entered fleeing
through the woods, and for a long time dared not leave them, for which all days this chief was
in the least ill to face with such an enormous crime, telling them to do what purpose life
had been taken to the Fathers that made them so good and so fond
of? they could go to the Mamalucos and would see if they were treated
better.

Let the traitors in their flight altar ornaments and other sacred ornaments, which, although
desecrated and shattered the Quatí collected and restored, it still
maintained its great desire to be Christian, but he finally vanished
for having some of their chiefs nation bordering the Assumption, broken
the peace with the Spanish.

It has been well particular providence God has had to give notice of all these events.

There was already a little less than two years was not known to these two Apostolic operators,
so we were on so afflicted and bereaved.

Some believe that, looking unable to return to Asuncion, had been hospitalized for the country to
preach in it the holy law of God, and was the basis for this lawsuit
insatiable zeal on both sides, then to wherever they would give them
opportunity to preach, were even at the cost large sweat and work,
others ran better than had been killed by the Payaguá, or at least
made slaves.

And I've seen written letter of the Assumption of April 30, 1717, written after death penalty
that was given to the Payaguá said, was said by the way he ran in
that city who had died only P. Arce, and P. Blende I had the same
Payaguá captive with some of his Indians, and that the Spanish rider
had sold to the Guaycurús.

God wanted to order some comfort from news of the arrival of these two very happy Missionaries the
position of bliss, a glorious death.

Were thus eyewitnesses of what happened, four Christians, companions
of P. Arce, whose names were: Joseph Mazzabis, Poquibiqui Jacinto,
Pablo and Pedro Melchor Tubal Guarayo, who having been slaves of the
Payaguá, were rescued by the Padres in the first trip, and this had
brought him the Father of that language interpreters.

These slaves were now the second time Payaguá.

The four, then, with India, Asion nation, also a slave, for the month of January 718, is left between
the Payaguá, under the pretext of going to find some wild fruits
motaquís calls, and leaving them neglected, seized were two canoes
and set sail, vogando with the force that gave them the desire for
freedom and the fear of being made of their cruelísimos owners.

Thing sailed two hundred leagues to the Mamore gap, where the boats left, they entered by the
dense forests to avoid falling into the hands of the Guaycurús, and
take the road to the town of San Rafael de los Chiquitos, consumed
with work and hunger, came with great difficulty that people, and
gave the news I have mentioned here.

It is time to give some account of these two zealous missionaries to illustrate this story the
relationship of his life and virtues, it will be quite concise.

Father born Joseph de Arce to November 9, 1651 year on the island of La Palma, a the Canaries.

His parents, no less illustrious blood in piety, he grew up in the fear of Devotion to God and Queen
of Angels, and discovering in it a kind that promised large hopes to overtake his family, tender
age he was sent to the University of Salamanca, where the culture
of science is capable hiciese get some dignity ecclesiastical or secular,
as the state chose.

But God Our Lord uses many times human interests, to achieve better to his eternal providence,
used the first leg of our Joseph to those universities to call the company and then the Apostolate
in the Indies.

Was making all efforts in the study of literature, always with an eye to what the world promises
and then does not comply, but as more available than others will,
had pinned their hopes in deciduous and perishable things, had little
to do in his disappointment, considering it the innumerable filled
with hope as he had joined the world's flags and had not reached more
award, after their toil and hardship, to be faded and mocked his attempts,
he was persuaded that the same would happen to him, if you take ill-advised
his party, but that if he offered his sweat and work to God in the
way of virtue achieved, by prize glory.

These and other insights have little understanding not lit, and lit the will in love to the things
of the soul, God and eternity, until the interior styling the Holy Spirit's grace in their hearts
this disappointment, we strongly bartered another man; and so on, determined to be religious, he
felt called to the company effectively, and as was already gritty century of things easily due
to the inspiration of heaven, and received the Company in the same
College of Salamanca, at the July 3, 1669, then moved to have his
novitiate in Villagarcía.

Just our novice set foot in this holy house, where, as chosen tree, transplanted flows beside the
waters of grace, began to bear fruit of all virtues.

He was then eighteen years of age, and was naturally ardent and lively,
but subjected and yielded both the vividness from the first months
of novitiate, which left no passion not domase, a rule that did not
observe, not practice virtue, adjusting very well indeed the model
and level of our constitutions.

So holy met his novitiate, he passed to higher studies, where the gathering fervor and devotion to
science, conceived burning desire to devote himself to God more closely
Missions in India and follow more closely the footsteps of San Francisco
glorious Apostle Xavier.

To fulfill their wishes timely opportunity offered to Europe's coming
of P. Christopher Altamirano, Attorney General of the Province of
Paraguay, whose charge was subjects take the Company to retain and
expand the faith in those provinces dilated.

First consult the business in prayer to God and to his great San Francisco
lawyer Xavier, and then expressed their desire to superiors, asking
them to give him a lot of body leave to go to Paraguay.

Our Father John Paul Oliva general, knowing the holy and laudable custom of the provinces Spain,
in Europe not to retain God chooses subjects for his holy preachers name in the New World, sent
the license to the discretion of P. Provincial of the Province of Castile, who at the time
it was Fr Pedro Jeronimo de Cordoba, who seems to be Arce younger brother who could expect much
fruit in the conversion of the Indians by their way of life set and in the spirit of the Company,
without ever dejection a point in the race for perfection, even in
the most dangerous time of the studies, we then quickly allocated
to the province.

He arrived at Buenos Aires in 1674, having carried across great example navigation and building,
and such was the size that gave their religion in that port, I heard a subject, which is now
the Company and then was secular, not tired of looking at him when came out of school and went
after him unfinished admire his silence, meditation and exterior
composure and modest joy on his face expressed the spirit of the Lord
that his heart was full.

What was then in India, I do not think I will be able to declare better or truer test and convincingly
that the universal sense of all this province, which accommodated those Sanctus copiossisime words,
with which St. Augustine epilogue the virtues of his great friend St. Paul, founded this concept
so high in the great zeal, profound humility, ardientísima charity, apostolic works, contempt
of himself and of his life and other heroic virtues that invariably
retained in the long space of forty-one or forty-two years spent here
in the service of God and the good of souls.

Not repeat here their toils in the provinces of Chiriguaná of ​​Chiquitos and Guarani and the discovery
of the Paraguay River, the conversions made there, the churches he founded, repeated times
was in danger of losing his life, work with excellence in learning Barbarians many different
languages, Chiquito, Quechua, Guaraní, and Payaguá Chiriguaná, their ongoing tasks for the benefit
of souls and even the bodies of the infidels and neophytes the great
and grievous persecution he suffered because of this, until they came
to be mortified and publicly reprimanded as a man without prudence,
without trial.

I'll just say something about his other virtues, and first offered to the view that after admirable
harmony which had in the Father Joseph de Arce uses of Martha and
Mary, that is, the active and contemplative life, outdoor occupations
of service and support neighbors, and interior and close union with
God.

Missionaries continuously cry and seeing a lot of grief after employee
all day for the benefit of the neophytes, without the slightest break,
then into the night can only be collected alone with God for a while.

Plus P. Arce, after their regular jobs to help the neighbors, then that put before God in prayer,
I was so into each other, that everything was not God let him away from you, and trustworthy
person I know, eye-witness, who saw him pray before Blessed Sacrament, who watched the devout
Father composure, and this immobility body and senses, which pricked him and helped not a little
more devotion to meet to this holy exercise, rather than his praying and being in the presence
of God, not confined to hours certain, but never lost sight of that infinite good, so that was
all what he did, all in one for whom he did not just working for
love but love in the same act, and anyone who noticed he clearly knew
his eyes.

Therefore, not knowing him all over the world, beauty worthy of love, or kindness to which aficionados
even the smallest of his desires, but by looking at only God, who was always for him all nice
of her beauty and all desirable for her kindness, she forgot and lost sight of all things of
the earth and even to himself, chairs, pulpits, and other honorary office of which may tend to
estimate the least disappointed in the small world of religion, were for the P. Arce unbearable
burdens, and so, as we saw, did not stop to mourn and to make request
to the superiors, until he was discharged from the occupation to read
the Faculties higher in the Royal University of Cordoba.

And to make fuller concept of what is despised himself, refer only
case, singularly worthy of eternal memory be taken, and I've known
subject of the Company who were eyewitnesses.

Had outstripped talent pulpit Father Joseph, and therefore preached he was charged about the
virtues of his great apostle St. Francis Xavier to a brilliant and numerous audience in the
city of Cordoba, on the day of the saint's feast, here's keeper precept; but the Father, to
whom it was no small honor that role, wanted to turn it all in own benefit, so up to the pulpit,
he turned to the Hon. Bishop of Tucuman, D. Fr Nicolás de Ulloa, the illustrious Order of St. Augustine,
and apologizing to protest I had no ability to write or say anything good, he said, with periods
malformed and worse these, some points of Christian doctrine, and did not stop here his own dejection
and contempt for what the Father came to his will, someone else eventually, but he thought,
with scorn, because some young man, his disciple in philosophy, coming just days after public theater
clown suit, represented the live action that same pulpit, glossing
so you moved to, laugh to the bystanders, with no little disgrace
and contempt of P. Arce.

It was so far from feeling of outrage that his disciple, as before,
very glad, gave him many hugs and thanks to his insolent, of which
he little pricked, and was in perpetual forward eulogist of its virtues.

The

dress she wore was so vile and despicable, and so poor, patched cassock, that miserable beggar
could not dress more poorly. Their food, so sparse and poorly cooked, that even the barbarians,
who live like wild beasts in the forests, the stand could have been so long time, and passed
through the hands of many a pumpkin, which served as pot, bowl and glass, usually happened
with corn, no other dressing than that of yours has this bland delicacy, cooked in water, and
when his illness forced him, added a meat scraps badly cooked.

Conclude the Apostolic praise of this man with an act that by chance, the more worthy of know
and he just enough to tell between the heroes of this province, for whose intelligence I must take the
relationship further.

He had broken, do not know what causes the ancient peace and friendship among the Guarani Indians
and nation of the manure, the spirits of these were so exasperated that they had sworn not
to kept alive to any Guaraní who fell into his hands, and stopped here this damage enmity, but also
the total threatened ruin and destruction of Christianity floridísima Uruguay and Paraná, because
the manure did not allow Christians, for maintenance of their people, who do not use other
foods than meat, should pass the Uruguay to make provision cows, which used to collect twenty
or thirty thousand a year in the vast campaigns are the banks of the Atlantic Ocean, for which
the hunger and famine afflicting much to the people Reductions.

Our Missionaries had used many means to shut off all eficacísimos malevolence and hatred between
the two nations and reduce them to their old friendship, but it was all in vain.

Wanted, first, test whether they could turn to the holy faith to the manure, but they stubbornly refused,
by giving an answer the same reason because they were perdidísimos Jaros idolaters, to wit, that
the God of the Christians knew so much, that it was not anything
hidden, and because it was huge everywhere in looking at what they
do, they did not want have a God who had so much science and so open
your eyes, that in its forests and caves they lived with more peace
and freedom without having a receiver or ongoing court actions.

Not taking advantage of this medium, it was another case that only seemed more concerned to attempt
and went to buy the friendship and goodwill of the nobility Guanoá
some things present common between us, but between them very appreciated.

But not even thus could reduce their obstinacy to treaty of peace and harmony.

Meanwhile famine grew, people were crying and could be fear on the basis that despair plague or
destroy this illustrious church. Seeing this, the P. Arce, offered to go in person to speak
to the principal chiefs of the manure and risk his life misery to
rescue those souls and bodies of many thousands of Christians and
thrown to the fury of the storm, that by his death alone entirely
serene.

And in reality he had indeed lost his life, for the obvious signs
of I hate that we had the manure, for which our own, by giving hugs
to the past farewell, he cried as if it were certain to die.

He, with a serenity of face impassive, was on his way, asking God to accept sacrifice his life
in placación and peace, or in the manner most pleasing to His Majesty
and it was necessary to have such work, to those who gave up on his
journey to the missions of the Chiquitos.

Barbarians admired the generosity and greatness of his mind, or whether by virtue of they also
made great esteem, or for the skill and efficiency of their agencies, adjusted finally so difficult
business, the old and established peace between them and mutual remedied the need and hunger
for many people. This incomparable man died in the month of December , 1715, aged nearly seventy-five,
forty-six of religion and twenty-nine profession of four votes he
had made to the August 15, 1686.

Rector was a three-year the College of Tarija, which greatly promoted
religious observance and our ministries.

Let us stop to this wonderful man and move on to give some news of his apostolic partner.

Born, then, P. Bartholomew Blender August 24, 1675 in the city of Bruxas, one of the main county
of Flanders, of noble parents.

It was endowed with great ingenuity, and to do, began to study at
home lyrics something human and philosophy, but to learn God's call
in the Society of Jesus Gospel wisdom, did not have much work to obey,
because even in the midst of danger the world, lived with a lot of
religion and piety.

Having lived in the province of Flanders for nearly fifteen years, our Father reached general Michelangelo
Tamburini license to go to the Indies, which had long desired.

Flanders went to Madrid, where the Imperial College soon spread the smell of his holiness and
virtue, and all universally formed a unique concept that was apostolic man and gifted with those
talents that are needed for the missions of the Indies, for which,
long after his departure, there lasted fresh memory of his virtues.

Madrid went to Cadiz, where he embarked to March 2, 1710 in the ships leaving for the port of
Buenos Aires in the company of other eighty-nine Jesuits from many nations, but all the same spirit
that led from Europe to America to the fatigues and hardships of the laborious missions of Paraguay
and Chile.

While the next day sailed from strength to strength, rose a thick fog, and covered it was approached
by three Dutch vessels, which with a great din and noise of battle were arrested, artillery firing
a shot and was on the point of having a bloody battle on both sides, defending their assets
each and the high expectations that had been board, and others, hoping to get rich with a large
spoil, but as the Spanish ships to carry their registration, do not
follow the common measure of weight in proportion to the ship must
be loaded, but put more genres than you can fit, adding to that the
thick amount of provisions for six or seven months, there is born
to go so deep in water, only carry out what needs to stay in it, leaving
more than useless artillery to fight, to go into the water swaths.

For this reason, the captain wisely judging that it was just as well give up that fight, because had surrendered
hope that the protection of the Queen of England, who had passport, they return most of their possessions,
they threw flags, and even if they contradicted the sailors and passengers
shouting, protesting that they put clear danger to their persons and
flow, surrendered completely.

It is not easy to say what the hubbub and furor winners entered in the ships, which stripped
to the officers and passengers were treated to a very strange and cruel, recording breasts even
at the same captains with subtle instruments of iron to see if by chance had hidden within a
few pieces of gold or other precious thing.

What seemed so bad, even Senators and judges to the Netherlands, who had called the Dutch
masters to Amsterdam to give account of himself, deposed and deprived them of their offices.

Ours,
then, to whom the Company's cassock was worthy of worse treatment the trial of heretics, were badly
mistreated them, taking away all his clothes and others, and throwing
them in the worst and most inconvenient location of the ships, with
only the maintenance need not to die.

Meanwhile the victors feasted feasting and very festive with the provision that had found in
the ships, but at the expense of the conquered all, because he borrowed from the wine and brew
they were doing out so beside himself that he went running along
herds everywhere, fore and aft, making for fun and pleasure with taunts
deride them all insulting, with ridiculous grimaces, and treating
them so infamously, as if they were a vile mob of Turks.

Also, our maintained largely at his own expense or most of this event because, as making use of
them registered yet most secret breasts, and would be in the place of Cilician jewelry, chains
and disciplines, riding in anger at being deceived, they shook stoutly with them, sometimes,
as if using them for mercy to see them pale and consumed in many jobs, they offered a great vessels
filled with liquor their own, and if out of modesty or otherwise
refused reached the lips, forcing them to it with the gun in his hand.

In so many hard sufferings, they lasted from March 26 until April 6 was the P. Blende comfort
and relief of all, and his kindness and courtesy will be won the
Dutch captain, as he could achieve some relief for their brothers
until they gave Lisbon background Lazarus Sunday afternoon.

In that city he had come to fame for what happened had already prejudiced the distinguished San
Antonio College and the Novitiate some boats that went out to meet us, and with affection and love
that is imaginable, they sought redress of past work, and for all
time stopped there used to them all the subtleties of love that are
so typical in this observant and ancient province of Portugal.

Father could not Bartolomé de Blende enjoy these charity shows, because he repeated instances
of the illustrious Mr. D. Pedro Levanto, Archbishop of Lima, Lisbon whom no The Dutch wanted
to leave by a person of such distinction, it was necessary ordered Superiors were accompanying his
Lordship to Holland, for which, disguised in secular costume dress Jesuit because he was not
allowed to go the Dutch passed to Amsterdam not without known advantage
of many of them Dutch, whom Catholics hidden in secrets confessed
and urged to remain constant and steadfast in the faith.

Since, finely released prelate returned with him to Seville, where to August 15 1711, made profession
of four votes.

From this it started again without wanting to Cadiz receive any of
the present and delicious the illustrious Mr. Levanto offered in acknowledgment
of how much he had cooperated with the Ministers of the Republic of
Holland to his Lordship was restored to his freedom.

Admitted only a few booklets of devotion, useful to introduce, even
people of little or no consciousness, feelings of Christian piety,
and to increase the esteem and reverence of Queen of the Angels, who
was very devoted.

Made himself sailed to December 27 the same year of 711. 

Just had got into the foot, where he was met by two beautiful young bringing in their hands
glowing crosses, which we introduced in a pleasant garden where the fragrance of flowers that
can not be compared with any here, and the beauty of what she saw, she was in ecstasy admired,
and having being presented with a similar fruit to the grenade, to only come to his lips, he filled
the hearts of both joy and comfort, I thought that it was the best and even the whole of the gift
of the citizens of heaven, but I was told the hearing, he was far away the sea of ​​happiness,
which engulfed the blessed, are fully fed, satisfied and happy, and that he had forward, was nothing
more than a hint, a sample of what remained to enjoy, good and blessed just to make sense, and
the lower portion of the man, unable to the pleasure it brings to understanding the knowledge
and clear view of the divine essence.

Lucas had the right not to cast eyes on all sides, which saw new delights
and wonders; and wished to stop here or go somewhat later, but he
interrupted his plans and impregnated her like a squadron of blessed
spirits, and the most authoritative among them in the air of the countenance,
in the majesty of his steps and the glowing cross he had, he thought
he was Prince of the heavenly host, who, turning to look at Lucas,
he said some harsh words:

And you?

How are you doing here? Have you confessed? Yes, to which he added: "And these three sins? and nombróselos.

Poor
dumb, because he said it was true, that there was no warning from them in confession, own
ignorance.

Then the angel said: These ugly much your soul, and prevent side to come to enjoy side of the
sight of God.

Say to the people, there is no other way to come to heaven, but expressing sincere in confessing sins,
as I say what the Fathers, which pronounced words so hard and effectively,
than a great thunder shook him around.

This turned around with his teammates and wanted to stop to see the neophyte more closely the
great things he had heard about God and His glory, and see that ineffable wonder of how souls are
blessed, not least because they are in God because they see God in itself, but the prince made him
understand that no one who is ugly the blame could look in a mirror
in God, nor make himself a mirror in which see God, but to come out
of there and come back here to clear with penance and confession those
offenses.

Bye, then, the poor man of that blissful place, but when beginning to enter the first path,
he saw that he went to meet the Queen of heaven, served in large crowd saints, bouncing on his
face many rays and glare, which was stunned by the beauty with amazement at the majesty of
his countenance, and saluting His Majesty to him in his language; mad air and asked what he wore
around his neck.

This rosary is not yours, but my son (and boy named Luke whom he had taken by force), which,
as a reward to be successful with the white arrow, rosary wanted more than anything else open to
them; vuelvéselo as soon as possible, because in this thy great grief you caused violence, and to
say this disappeared, and their drivers or guides him back to the world, and finding at every
step troops infernal spirits who were flowing and howling greyhound way to go in search of
the beasts, all filled with fear and horror.

Come near his body, had left shortly before, it seemed more than a shapeless mass of mud and wondered
to himself and did not quite believe that this was in whom little exercised before all operations
and natural faculties, and never ceased to whine and complain to their peers, but they, smiling,
said,

This thing is you know what, full of vile and hendionda this matter.

With which to point their eyes were gone, no more vision and Lucas
Xarupá, or by rather, his soul, turning them into his body as if awakening
from a deep sleep, or as he said, as if to rise, his first care was
to call the owner of the Rosary and asking forgiveness for the injury,
then at that point was free of fever lasted still.

The bystanders were amazed that with so mild remedy that had escaped painful illness, but when
they heard what God's command told them, was amazing shock, the tears and the fruit, or was here
alone, but wherever they came the voice of this event were the same
effects, and who was good was encouraged to persevere, and who bad,
with the memory of those punishments, corrected pecante humor in it
prevailed.

And the rose began a life better, that if once was good, then it was a saint.

Quédame now, for a finishing touch, to say something of the zeal of these good Christians to announce
divine law and bring the light of the Gospel to those still in darkness during and vices Gentiles
do not seem to live happy in the new life they have begun to profess if bring others to enjoy the same
right.

For proof whereof, I give first place to the Missionaries, who, as eyewitnesses and experience,
not just talk about this issue.

"In this case, and other miraculous events (thus concludes a letter from him a Missionary Reduction
San Francisco Xavier, after writing that little has vision referee)
Ignition is in this village a great fire of charity and zeal to carry
the name of God to unbelievers ignoring you work and toil and death,
to be found at every step.

"

"Faith, thank God, every day is growing (says another) and wish many, ignoring none of his
life, put it in the surrounding nations.

"I am waiting (P. Knight writes) to certain neophytes who last year received holy baptism, which,
moved to compassion for his countrymen were offered to go there to
reduce the flock of Christ, to be participants rather that they enjoy.

"

So count of one Indian named Ignacio who can not live without walking
in search of infidels and winning souls to Christ, and P. Juan Bautista
de Zea, in its way to the Zamucos, we chose Captain of the other,
and him uniquely trusted most serious business that either people.

Another writes both P. Augustine Castañares of another Indian village of San Rafael, called Antonio,
who sought could deliver many souls from the clutches of Mamalucos
and put in charge on your taper.

Just be calm, the sky, after the time of the rains, when then to prevent
their missions, and who else is happy and who have brought more souls
to the knowledge God, spending in this company three to four months,
until they find place where you can to harvest.

Following is a sight to see the festivities and joy that makes the people at the time of his return,
and charity and love that they receive to their new hosts, even ancient,
implacable his enemies, he moved to devotion and tears to the Padres.

Danlos part of their poverty, admítenlos at home and wanted to put
them in her heart, so that soon they forget the barbarians from their
native soil and fall in love with the holy law divine, which guests
see as beautiful eaten as wild men under like them, it is a miracle
that even in the extreme needs to use, when Gentiles, of devotion
to each other, even those to whom Nature has been strengthened with
the strong ties of blood.

And indeed, this new Christianity is due to herself much of its beauty and increase; it extends
to both his burning zeal, oblivious to the obvious dangers of life, creep into the woods, and alone,
and with the Missionaries, to request conversion of the infidels, with more than one hundred
who have shed their blood and willingly offered prolong their lives
for the kingdom of Christ among those barbarous nations.

As you will see who shall read this clearly closely related.

And it helps our Lord to these your servants many times, even with miracles, to confirm more
on faith and that seeing the infidels to run before being baptized.

Two of them tell a long story for readers not wearied.

The first is of some neophytes who, having gone out to bear the name
of God to a Rancheria Penoquís Indians, while fervent in spirit encourages
those barbarians to quit their homeland, leaving heathenism and enter
the flock of Christ, some women came frightened, crying, "Woe, woe,
that water from a nearby pond that was used to the supply of the town
had taken shape and color of blood, "forecast them bad luck.

Then the villagers began to discourse on the case by different interpretations as the passion
of each, but the Christians to the point they cracked the case, saying that this was fraud and
trace of the devil to remove them from embracing the law of real
God, and to show that they went there together, and given the strange
mutation, taking Christians with great faith the rosary in hand, blessed
the water and thrown into it; to the point, that looks faded, returned
to his old water color and flavor before had.

Even more wonderful is another case that happened to the same, which, spread over many Villages far
from each other about a league, people gathered to cut santa faith and lead to a reduction.

They
saw that there was raised aloft by great big cloud of smoke and fire, not knowing where he came
from or who you have on (and by chance was also the cunning of the enemy hell), and came to take
over them, and because it was very bad wind could ensure life and
finances with the flight, and over and lit the flames in the first
Rancheria.

Then the peasants, all together, they resorted to some newbies, begging
with tears in his eyes that if they were true the things they preached
Christ and His Blessed Mother called her aid now released as dangerous,
and made all requested knees please God and mercy, promising the infidels
receive baptism and His holy law.

Oh, miraculous event! The fire went out without the slightest damage to the house where they
had collected, and they had INDUVIT by a miracle, because this house
was the town center and all others are reduced to ashes.

Neither did the miracle here, because approaching the fire to the second Rancheria put the inhabitants
thereof in great fear, but Christians then threw hand of the remedy. Hallab here the captain
of all, who bore the image the queen of heaven, this man, then ordered to come out to find the fire
and secure his to defend the holy image in front of his fury.

Wonderful thing! They cut through the flames without the slightest damage there, being so all
the houses were of straw. And most manifest proof of the miracle arrived the fire to a house
and formed an arch over it, but without any injury.

This confirmed the Christian faith and devotion to the Mother of God, and barbarians, conquered
most of the wonder that on his promise, enlisted in the number of
the faithful.

CHAPTER VIII

Preténdese discover the Paraguay River to communicate these missions
with Reductions the Guarani.

From the earliest years that began the conversion of the Chiriguanos
and Chiquitos with intent to penetrate the Chaco to reduce our holy
faith to the nations living in the vast space of land between Torija
and Paraguay, it was deemed to always wear the intended purpose, the
open road and a stop that river to the missions of Paraguay O Guarani,
in order that they were easier to provide these Chiquitos Reductions,
and our comfort they had to give mouth to the Father Provincial and
receive more timely relief to their need, apart from that it would
lower the consolation of the Provincial to see the toil and sweat
of his subjects in the conversion of the Gentiles, and end up in Less
than a year the visit of this very vast province, for when it is now
necessary walk two thousand and five hundred miles to visit it all,
discovered this path by the river Paraguay, only went about fifteen
hundred miles to visit Misiones province.

Considered these utilities, they do them the most concerning the intended purpose, although
secret judgments of God will never be able to carry out, but after much time, and that no fruit.

But
why should I pass over in silence the hardships and work in the company suffered and suffered
our missionaries, not to deprive them of the glory, that even here on earth whom should all
be concerned to promote the glory of God.

I already said above that the main reason for founding the Reduction of San Rafael along the
river Guabys was in the neighborhood with the Paraguay River to the discovery of which left
for the month of May the year of 1702 the PP. Francisco Hervás and
Miguel de Yegros, carried by guides, or as here vaqueanos we say,
forty Indians, no other provision that trust in God and trusting in
the protection of the Queen of Heaven and the Archangels San Miguel
and San Rafael.

Nor failed they left their hopes, because the trip was found in possession
of hunting fishing and such, that, in the greatest anguish was more
abundant and better quality relief.

Carried a catechumens, in a nation that past years had been prevented
to discover the river, tried it with great efficiency that his countrymen
received the law divine, and that the missionaries were received and
well treated in three Rancherías of Curumin, Batasiz and Xarayes,
where he stayed, for being poorly supplied with clothing and for having
been nailed a thorn in one foot, and after a few days went to the
afterlife without receiving Holy Baptism even though it had been used
with fervor that others received.

Due, therefore, many difficulties and hardships that not a few passes were accurate having to
walk through thick forests and mountains sour, and spend swamps and lagoons, to more of continuous
shock and fear of falling into enemy hands, they came to plant a
cross in the banks of a river, which was judged in Paraguay, or at
least one arm of it (in which suffered great deception, because it
was River, but a large lake that was going to finish in a very thick
palm forest).

In the meantime, some Indians plotted his death to save the parents
when it would return for their land, but discouraged from this betrayal
by others of better awareness, went to meet them and went with all
those people in the company Rancherías Parents of the people of San
Rafael, where they took home.

With the news of this discovery, determined P. Joseph de Tolu, Superior to the time of these reductions,
which the province to veniese P. Francisco Hervás to give this news Provincial Father Lauro Núñez,
already the second time ruled.

Can not believe the elation and joy that he had with such notice, and all quickly picked five
former Missionaries of Guarani, with a lay brother, so that the band Paraguay's discovered the
path that had been discovered and judged by the band of Chiquitos. These were the P. Bartholomew
Ximénez (who, having gone back to Rome Attorney to this province, flew, full of years and merits
the sky, on July 22, 1717 in the port of Buenos Aires), PP. Juan Bautista de Zea, Joseph de Arce,
Juan Bautista Neuman, Francisco Hervás and brother Silvestre Gonzalez.

And

because he does not dislike anyone read the events of this trip, I will work transladar faithfully
a daily record of everything he did one of the subjects were, which, after I put a lot of
diligence in finding it, finally came to my hands and is as follows:

"We left (said) to 10 May 1703, the port of our reduction Candelaria to give background on
the Atinguí, and thence to 27 of the same month, we landed in Itatí, where we were welcomed
with special affection Fr Fra Gervasio, the venerable order of St.
Francis priest who was that town.

From here, Paraminí threw into the river, where in Paraná River flows into the Paraguay River
and assemble this out, not without great difficulty by the fury of the winds that gave us that
to many days.

Finally, to June 22, cling to the port of Asunción, where we were
greeted with usual charity that uses the Company, Parent of that school,
and after four days start from there, carrying a large boat, four
pools, two kayaks and a canoe.

Having walked the rafts forty leagues, they found at a distance some
Indian canoes Payaguas, who felt they were spies of this nation.

We wish to speak and give it to learn to remove all fear and suspicion and to urge he's already adjusted
by peace with the Spanish and wished to become Christians.

For this purpose he entered in a canoe P. Neuman's brother and came
Silvestre Gonzalez close to them wanted to engage with them effectively
treated in accordance.

But it did not work the desire for them wishing to be reached, crying aloud: PEE pemomba comrade
pray Buenos-Ayres viarupi, which means Castilian, who feared for our people, who had destroyed
his countrymen at the edge of Buenos Aires.

Therefore, suspicious Fr Neuman they can be cut, turned around, leaving
hanging a tree on the beach, some beads and other stuff.

So, seeing the barbarians that caresses of us did not stay in their own words were then run to
get those goodies and more courage and security, arrived four of them at the bottom of a pond,
where they left some carved with beautiful art mats and woven delicate: prosiguióse many days this
treaty, with the Faraut Aniceto Guari, fervorosísimo Christian, vice-mayor of the Reduction of
San Cosme, who, eager reduction of those infidels, he tried, with
very friendly and courteous manner, engage them to get away with it.

It is the nation's Payaguá of unholy condition, cowardly, treacherous betrayals and ready to be machined
and soon showed these bad qualities, for having approached our Aniceto on July 12 to certain
Payaguá, with some sorcery that they consider, to urge and reduce them to receive the holy
baptism out of a creek a short distance away a sleeve of these traitors, divided into two canoes
and taking upon him treacherously killed him and to other fellow with fierce baton blows, and executed
these barbaric killings, drove to flee desperate to get rid of our Christians, who warned the very
late fate, and gone to the site of insult, they found the bodies
of comrades, unable to with Aniceto, and the next day we celebrate
the funeral for their souls, with which it can piously believe God
will use mercy to them by the zeal with which they were offered to
deal with these treacherous gentiles.

Payaguá seeing that our people did not show any feeling for this event, taking bold, decided to
evict the next day where we were, allowing himself to see a crowd of canoes divided into two
squadrons, of which, reaching one landed some people ashore and the other ran along the river,
but did not dare to put himself shot, before shortly afterwards withdrew, leaving no more after,
but to what further, in order to spy our steps once, in the dark of night, dared Disturb by
land ponds, throwing stones and arrows against them, but our Christians, little diligence, put
them to flight.

This was the only encounter we had with these enemies, who, if they
were in league the Guaycurús, people who cheat, but brave and enemicísima
of the Catholic faith, we hardly able to escape and get away from
his snares and traps in a river town from all over islands and inlets.

A 7 August we reached the mouth of the river Xexui, where before the destroy Mamalucos the
people of Maracay, Terecaní and Candelaria, was conducted every year to the Assumption much
of the famous herb of Paraguay, on day 19, walking along the shore, Payaguá saw a land whose
inhabitants had been removed shortly before a large island to that was before us.

Just back there when we jumped in our Indian land, and senses of death
of his companions robbed and plundered all, it was the land of the
cacique Jacayrá, where he maintains some subjects for the factory
of the canoes.

On day 21 we found a fort with a palisade and her three great crosses, and suspected Mamalucos
us that there would have some of their missions, we learned later
that this had been drawn and invention of Payaguá for God to rid of
a big crowd strange tiger who infested the country.

We saw little after twelve o'clock to walk on the beach barbarians, but without giving us trouble,
however, what amazed us most was that up to August 30 were not but two canoes Guachicos before
reaching the Tepotii.

The mouth of this river lies about about thirty miles from the river Piray. Later there a row
of obstacles by including a raging current passes that as a rule
masks.

But when there near the river carries little water, are on top of one of those stones some traces
of man, say the natives are of the Apostle St. Thomé.

Shortly later, in front, are twelve towering rocks, happy at the sight,
exceeding nature to the beauty of art.

Here began the Guaycurús to light fires and to smoke, e-flyers that are to alert the surrounding
villages that go around enemies.

Seven miles after these hills runs the river, which is situated next to the lagoon Neugetures,
it enters a river flowing down from the lands of the Guam. Throughout this lake living most
of the year these barbarians, and there raised many herds of horses and mules, using of Guam
as slaves, to cultivate the land and sow snuff given here in great abundance.

Other nations bordering on these, among which was a call Languages, whose language is similar
to that of the Chiquitos.

Two leagues beyond this lake flows into the Mboimboi, beside which was formerly a reduction in working
for the benefit of natural PP. Christopher Sands and Alonso Arias.

It happened that the second, called upon the Indian lands to administer the Holy Wadding Sacrament
of Baptism, he met a gang of Mamalucos, which killed him to musket,
and the other, falling soon after in the same hands, went so abused,
that finished soon live and suffer.

From here until the very extensive campaigns Xarayes profit in nature, without any art industry
is huge amount of rice farming, that every year make provision the Payaguá, wadding, Nanuiquas,
Caracas, Guacamás, Guaresis and other bordering towns.

In September 22 we Cuñayegua mountains, one in front of himself in the other the band of Ito,
home to the Sinemacas.

Here they were to preach the holy law of Christ Fr. Just Mansilla, Flamenco, and Pedro Romero,
Spanish, which the brother was killed by Indians Mateo Fernández
Chiriguaná because persuaded them that as Christians could not have
more than a woman.

On an island, five miles below, had withdrawn two chiefs, and Arapichigua Jarechacu, Payaguá with
all his subjects, who saw us seven canoes then dispatched to the big island of apricots, to give
notice to those people, as they usually do in such times and so they
looked far and near many fumes in the air, so that neighborhood around
are taken in large Payaguá estimate, which is of great benefit to
them, so they given to snuff, leather, fabric and supplies, that are
stocked with great abundance.

 

He died in 715, do not know the day, but it is believed his death was the last of November, at
age 40 and 21 of religion, which had come to 1. st October 1694.

CHAPTER XVIII

Founding a new and Fr Reduction Juan Bautista de Zea undertakes the mission of Zamucos.

It is time we return to tie the threads of the story, interrupted
this long, well than useful digression, and first to give a view to
the reduction of San Juan Bautista, then move on to talk at length
about the trabajosísimas Missions undertaken in recent years to the
glory of God and the good of souls, the Apostolic P. Juan Bautista
de Zea.

We said in Chapter XVI how to address the lack of subjects had been
extinguished two peoples, and one dedicated to San Juan Bautista,
but by this time returned to start another with the same dedication.

Habíanse therefore added to St. Joseph and number of Morotocos Quies,
and to maintain as much people was the homeland a bit sterile, and
short crops, and it was therefore necessary to divide that town and
look elsewhere to fund it rather than a new one.

Thirteen miles from St. Joseph, towards the East, had a campaign called the Naranjal, sterile
not so much unhappiness in the land, as by not having those who cultivate it.

Chosen by common consent, among others, this site newbies, and then took room at the people
of four nations and many languages, Boros, Penot, Taus and Morotocos, using his name to that
town San Juan Bautista, and this is covered both to which they had comfortably with what life
pass, the new barbarians to that in faith, coming many in number and aging in vice, a thing of
incredible work remove bad habits, make them forget the old superstitions and reduce them to
narrow of law and Christian life as a missionary graciously said, they are so young, without
use of reason to bring them alive rational men, need to be continuous exercise of all virtues,
especially patience, zeal, delight and that that everything works,
love, suffering and endless impertinent nonsense, settling his own
way and becoming each of them to win and lead all to God.

New village Encargóse P. Juan Bautista Xandra, Sardinian nation, which sought, with all the fervor
of his spirit, that the people made their huts and till the ground, so that back in a little
of Father Zea Zamucos, with not so good success as expected, not
a little consoled himself with what he saw in the new town of San
Juan, and took courage to risk new life in the company of Zamucos.

This conversion is the work Zamucos business I now write, that having been the last of this gospel
worker, and the sun on the horizon, the more precipitate runs at sunset, so is more bright
and beautiful, and the sun threw the rest apostolic its incomparable charity when closest to death,
and although used, at least the years of work, had so much strength and encouragement, he could
get to grow successful the banner of Christ in inaccessible country, not so much by the barbarity
of its inhabitants, the by its natural place, rather than later, by the inscrutable judgments of
God, committed to other that great work, got frustrated so many hardships
for some time, and the hopes here to penetrate the vast provinces
of Chaco.

Strengthened, then, his spirit with long prayers and supplications to God our Lord for happy
conduct of that business, he set out for Zamucos in July of 1716, accompanied hundred neophytes,
and a few leagues opposed him hell with horrible storms in air, water and wind swirling, rising
rivers and a thousand other discomforts, so that thing walk fourteen leagues, spent nineteen
days, but not without some fruit, for giving a slight run to record some of the Tapuyquias Rancherías,
already ravaged, found there thirty souls who persevered even in
the darkness of heathenism, and won to Christ dispatched to the town
of San Joseph.

Happy with this unexpected win, went ahead and found a few leagues
with a forest ten leagues long, horrible in sight, and so difficult
to penetrate it, he never had been similar in all their wanderings.

What we did and suffered, with no words as best I can refer you to the same P. Zea wrote it to P. Vice-Provincial
Luis de la Roca:

"The Indians (says) get suspicious, however, that after all, began to work and to remove the thickness,
but half of it to completely fainted and resolved to leave, and I miraculously the power to
stop them, and to encourage them to take after it started, I stood
his forehead with an ax in his hand, sometimes with the hoe and other
carrying water to cool them ardientísimo fire of sun that made, and
so, by the grace of God, nineteen days of work, ended up breaking
the forest.

"But what became unbearable was not having the day or night of the
bloody truce endless hassles of mosquitoes and flies of several species,
molestísimos, whose stings us and we greatly disfigured last long
signals.

"I put his name Purgatory to this forest, that whosoever cometh unto
the coming years this country in search of souls, know how much it
must cost.

"

So much for the P. Zea.

Finally opened the way out to open field, where they found something to eat Father nor his companions
to repair the past work, because there was in that place no hunting or fishing pond, or a hive,
as there are other parties.

Only water was great copy estantía in the gaps, and some as tough and bitter roots as gall,
and they are not in great abundance, for this cause lost hope of
reaching at the end of your trip, because outside it said, had also
fallen ill work not a few of the converts, and others could hardly
be for lack of food.

With all of that step forward, two days distant from the last Rancheria of Cucarates, begged
some Morotocos Orerobates and twist some both the road and went to three Settlements of their
nation to reduce to those his countrymen to the knowledge of the true God.

Condescended to them willingly accept the holy man, and gave orders
to the rest of his entourage to wait for him beside the Cucarates
with only a few turned around to the said Ranches, and in less than
two days came in those lands where no one even found soul, because
the famine had forced the villagers to spread through the woods in
search food, so Christians were behind them without wasting time,
but the infidels, judging, or enemies or Chiquitos Indians, who were
greatly afraid and fled, until disappointed that, having been given
to know us, they stopped.

But it was in vain to speak them to become Christians, as they are not good to leave his native
land and take home in another place, and otherwise could not be indoctrinated in things of
faith and admitted to holy baptism, for which reason, seeing the P. Zea was not even when the
time for conversion, went around in search of his companions, but not I went in vain their
toil, for running some Rancherías and deserted, found there slightly more than seventy souls
who easily reduced to the faith, and leaving care some of their neophytes that would lead and
guide him to St. Joseph, the servant alegrísimo of God be in three days out of the clutches
of the demon many unbelievers, came together to the last Rancheria of Cucarates, where they waited
for his companions, to whom the evil spirit had such despair in the heart of the success of that
happy company which encouraged more than ever could not get them
to go ahead with them, and what could do it only if it will break
another forest similar to the past?

Stop here, and with the help of other infidels to enter the Zamucos was impossible because
all, to see the little ones, had retreated deep inside.

Thus, with incredible feeling and pain in his heart, he was obliged to go back and defer the company
until the following year:

But the zeal for souls and the greater
glory of God, which stimulated the Apostolic Father to continue what
was begun, was not allowed to expect that time opened, and although
the continuous rain that fell were flooded campaigns, decided to expose
a second time to the risks and dangers past.

Which and how many were, not referred to the Father in full, but enough to explain understand the
value and encouragement they had in the business of serving God.

"The same (says) this mission was to try to touch the gun hell to undo, break the air with furious
storms and move on the earth even more terrible persecution, because about persuaded me that it
was foolhardy to dare this company and that there was to get out
well with human effort.

Other, more flawed trial, said he was lost in vain the time and effort in converting a few when
there were nearly as many countries where less God coast to win great multitude of souls. "

So we painted, as an outline of the efforts of men and demons to remove
him of their attempts, but all vanished, because when God called him,
or persuasions of reasons, terror and danger, and he went through
pregnancies, were powerful to take away from their attempts.

Called, then, one day to twelve of the most fervent Christians, and of one mind on the dangers,
and great abundance of reasons to which he exhorted them to be his companions in the venture,
saying that in heaven God would give them the reward of what they should suffer for their love,
that should seek the good of others and move to compassion of so many souls of the oppressed
tyranny of the devil, whom they, by divine mercy, had shaken off the yoke that do not be frightened
of work and risks that were offered because he ran on behalf of sky rid of them, outside of
which he would be the first to be exposed to danger and They come treading in following in his footsteps,
he first probe for the fords of rivers, the marshes yield, would
throw hand ax, and if you dare to attack them barbarians he would
offer to serve as a shield.

This and more I said this very generous propagator of the law of God,
with great energy of mind because his was eloquent.

And indeed it was necessary so effectively in his words to persevere and his Indians could
suffer so many hardships.

Persuadióles what I wanted, and with these few peers in the strictest
of time, February the following year, went to reconnoitre the forest
that remained to be open to enter the Zamucos, and seeming cowardice
not to put then to work to pave this difficulty taking a hatchet to
his imitation and other neophytes, he began to make the journey.

"For about fifteen days (he says in a letter) from dawn to put the Sun, worked on removing some
of that jungle, most of the time with water to waist, to walk barefoot
among those thorny, losing at every step along the way, because Water
violence would take us back and forth.

"

Working with this determination came to the middle of the forest, where he met the holy man
that in that way not so much work had to suffer and overcome difficulties when comparing little
less than an impossibility because of the risk out there, that grow a little water are all flooded,
they had an inch of land to settle overnight, and nuisance and annoyance of mosquitoes was unbearable
to be under water by this found it necessary to go back until it calms the time and to take
new strength and encouragement peers, although the Venerable Father, whom the consolations
of heaven instilled both spirit and courage in so many anxieties,
and zeal for souls made him almost insensitive all jobs.

They all arrived safely on Holy Saturday to the Reduction of San Juan Bautista, having spent
more than forty days in the journey.

The day after Easter tried Fr Zea adjusting to peace and reduce Carer
knowledge of God, thus cleaning the path of danger and meetings with
those Caribbean, causing no little terror to passengers and provided
a pregnancy to the expansion of the holy faith.

Are these career of the same language and nation that Morotocos, with whom shortly before Peace had
been broken by disputes and feuds that had each other, and were followed, both parties, many
deaths and ruined, until tired of fighting and sent to war Carer
messengers to the Morotocos to return to his old friend, but against
every right people gave them to death inhumanely these messengers.

So angry this treacherous to the Carer, who plotted to destroy the
Morotocos, without giving quarter to none, but rather, making pieces
to anyone who came his hands, and celebrating with joy most cruel
meat banquet.

A tame, then, these beasts and reduce the flock of Christ hundred and sixty left Christian
Indian village of St. Joseph, and entering its Rancheria, sought
to introduce peace treaties, but the Carer, without wanting to give
ear to these talks, then got a weapon, and the first strike killed
a Christian Indian and wounded another two.

Neophytes, then offended, gave about them, shooting a storm of arrows
that many were killed: irritability, they could, escaped, and only
collected Sixteen of the mob, which brought to St. Joseph, fell to
our holy faith.

The fugitives, on several occasions, tried to kill P. Zea, but God, who kept him always fought,
in many ways, his rage and cruelty.

As was true Carer referred to, was having the indefatigable missionary to carry out and achieve
the glorious end of such laborious undertaking, for which, by choosing
second time some Christians more courage and strength, started in
late May of 717, and reaching the place of his sweats, then put more
verve to cut trees and to pave the earth, facilitating this work and
fatigue in the hope of good success.

It seemed almost impossible to remove this pregnancy, but nothing is inaccessible, nothing hard
to beat, whom he has offered his spirit to God and his neighbor his
life for the sake of charity.

Twenty days after it was open to anyone in the impenetrable forest, and to the July 12 arrived
at the first Rancheria of Zamucos.

These, whom fame had preceded his coming, we celebrated with demonstrations of extraordinary joy
cercáronle all in a circle, and men all, one by one, we were kissing
his hand, wanted to do the same for women, but the holy man crumbled
all in tears of relief and gave them to kiss the image of the Blessed
Virgin, who brought in hand.

Completed after the neophytes, embracing in peace and love, and I
stayed in their homes, giving them part of the poverty and the country.

The

next day the people gathered in the square, right, and together they gave a brief report of God,
his holy law, and asked if they wanted should come and preach the Missionary Hence the faith
of Jesus Christ and teach the way to heaven.

They answered that he had long wished, and not being Christian and it was because I had no one explain
the mysteries of the faith they had to believe, or the commandments to be observed.

- Well if so - said the Father, bathed in joy - you need to first raise church to your Creator
and Lord, and that you keep company all in one village.

That proposal was raised two principal chiefs, saying they would of goodwill but not there, but in
a better place, and that would gather at once to all the people of the neighborhood to found
a large reduction.

Meanwhile made P. Zea fly a cross on a high, and put all kneel before
it, worship it, and chanted the Litany of the Virgin, placed under
the patronage that people and protection of our Father St. Ignatius,
which gave invocation.

One would have gladly stayed there for warmth to the good will of the Zamucos if there brought
with them the sacred vestments and altar laptop, but he was forced to suffer many inconveniences,
and having nothing else to eat but water and some wild grass roots;
from this cause was to dismiss them and turn then to the same feeling
and pain that started and those who stayed.

On the return was timely opportunity to win for Christ to one hundred Indians of various nations
Zinotecas, Japorotecas and Cucarates that brought to the Reduction
of San Juan Bautista, where as he was preparing again to return to
their Zamucos, received orders to our General Michelangelo Tamburini
father, that he take charge of the provincial government, to they
promptly obeyed, not without pain in his heart incomparable.

And this time he died because the public good of these missions, leaving after two years slightly
less, life in the provincial employment, we here a brief account of the merits starting from
here took with him to Paraguay, for example of the subjects, and
then the sky to receive the crown due to the apostolic workers.

Father was Juan Bautista de Zea, a native of Goaz, instead of Old Castile, where he was born to March
18, 1654.

Here he learned the rudiments of grammar, but by the quality of place and teachers, took over
in devotion in the letters, not least in growing under that year.

To study more science went to the University of Valladolid, where he gave good examples ingenuity
in the speculative sciences, but much more on the saints.

He excelled in maiden modesty, innocence of manners as Christian and kind, great contempt of
worldly things, and not like anything other than God and his soul.

There was little need for one who was so detached from the affections
of flesh and blood surrender to the will of God calling him to the
Company, in which to August 13, 1671 will P. was the most learned
Diego Hurtado de la Fuente, who discovered light sovereign and foreseeing
the end to which God had designed the new Jesuit, it predicted things
great in the service of God and increase the holy Church, and from
then on he always loved and was venerated as a saint.

Zea brother just donned the robes of the Company, when taking over new obligations that she
had contracted, he tried to give them full compliance, and as if I started again the path
of virtue, he looked in the virtues of their connovicios, As observed
in them worthy of emulation to copy itself to the perfection of all.

Bragging to read and consider our rules, they are put forward as a
model, to which perfectly arranged in the interior and exterior.

Had very little to overcome to deliver the all his heart to God, not wanting or loving, or thinking
of other good that Her Majesty and subject testifies he met while studying the philosophy,
having given the Supreme clock care home, was only rather uncomfortable in a room without
leaving it but forced or scholastic functions domestic.

Here all the time that he had plenty of work study God gave it, and very rarely to men, because they
used very little of their conversation, and then only when requested by the obligation.

Then he went to study theology at Salamanca, and at this time the news spread by provinces of
Spain have arrived at Cadiz PP. Cristóbal de Grijalva and Thomas Dombaas, Prosecutors in Paraguay,
and to consider putting on the conversion of idolaters and the extreme distress in which are
innumerable peoples of the West, where extensive field offers copious harvest operators to many
Evangelicals, if there are many who disregard the amenities to attend to the eternal salvation
of souls is kindled the heart the desire to be one of the elect whom he touched the good fortune
to be appointed for the Mission the very extensive province of Paraguay,
and therefore made every effort to reach then leave of his superiors,
who felt much his request, because one part would not deprived of
it, and otherwise would not oppose the will of God, clearly known
their vocation, the American finally prevailed, and the abandoned
paganism of Paraguay by thus, our Zea, happy and alegrísimo broke
his province of Castile, to whom as a child always professed most
tender affection, and his classmates followed him to the heart, retaining
its sweet memory; singularly took pains to master this, your philosophy
Fr Baltasar Rubio, who was confessor of the Most Serene Queen of Spain,
Dona Maria Luisa Savoy, he followed him with affection, with their
prayers and their letters because when offered always hand wrote,
having the P. Zea uploaded concept, as I stated them.

Ordenóse a priest before embarking for the province, he spent the
year 1681 and were just sailed in Cadiz, when occasion offered which
demonstrate the spirit and virtues, of which plenty was prevented
for that trip.

Fell ill almost all his companions, who came to sixty, it is dizzy with extraordinary loss of
appetite and food boredom, to be followed by other diseases, that
killed eight of the Jesuits, as I said in the life of P. Caballero,
who also spent Indians on this occasion.

Fr Zea was time for everyone, serving not only as a nurse, but a cook,
but no experience in such trades, but the charity which is very clever
teacher, taught him these and other offices to serve his brethren.

Convalesced them, used all his thoughts and zeal in the mob of apprentices of the ship, taking
responsibility for the spiritual care of them with the talks, calls, confessions and all other
exercises leading to the advantage of souls, leaving between therefore no work, were vile
and disgusting it was, who did not run on their service, to win them
for God, and better and more happily did win those who were most work
and contempt.

With this size so holy proceeded all the navigation, which lasted three months, taking advantage
many wonderful, whom reduced to living well, and drawing on the eternal truths and putting them
in sight so many dangers and storms at sea, which even the most lost
often obliged to care for the conscience and soul, who had previously
appeared in such neglect or not having it.

What worked after he came to the Indies and in what trades are employed in the long course
his life, I have not been able to ascertain, by the distance of the places where he lived and
worked and having killed many of the Company who treated him familiarly. But I know that by
the I appreciate that from the beginning made him superiors soon
after he arrived from Spain made him minister of the Colegio Máximo
de Cordoba, where they breed the religious youth throughout the province.

After

he was Superior of the Missions of Uruguay, Visitor of the Chiquitos, Vice-Rector College of Córdoba,
and was also designated the Rector of Corrientes, to which for reasons that had proposed, and
recently was Provincial of the province, letter by Death took him a year and a half of his
government.

Now I'll just say briefly something of their virtues, reserving for another day to give in full
respect of all his many enterprises and heroic deeds.

And first tell your religious poverty.

He was always very poor in their dress, so much that by the many patches
that had, say with grace a missionary, he was in more accidents than
substance, he himself mended by their hands never moved another, until
the first, and can not survive, was falling to pieces. 

Missionary Temióse was not a drunk, and to address it certified and urged the India discovered
the truth.

She, fearing for this instance and the P. I knew, I discovered the
whole conspiracy who had plotted against his life.

Rancho Recogióse in offering to God his life in sacrifice for the good of souls, and was waiting
all night should come and kill him, but the Lord delivered him to other things in their service, because
the unbelievers advised by said that the Father india Known missionary
and his attempts, did not dare to give the death, fearing they should
come also then the Spanish to avenge.

Seeing the demon that had vanished this Trace, he used another, and was introduced in the village
the pernicious error that the same was throw it to the children the water of baptism the head
that their souls leave the body, and printed so highly this deception
their fantasies, which became the Fathers love to hate and loathing,
looked on with bad heart and fled from them as sworn enemies of their
property.

And gave to that heat they foolishly believe eternal, and though every
day were quedárseles dead in his arms his friends and relatives, with
all that, to the prevailing evidence of their eyes the error of understanding.

Tried

ours with all his zeal fade forces that deception and mistaken persuasion encouraged the devil to recent
damage that Christianity and God, our Lord, people look to the new believers to greater piety
eyes, wanted it quickly remedy this damage and comfort and cheer along the virtue of his servants.

If
passed this way:

Would one day P. Machoni Rancho Rancho carrying a pot of food to give it to the sick there
an India that brought the chest a boy who was now for exhaling, not could she so quickly flee
and hide her child so that the Father did not see her.

He tried it with sweet words and great kindness to mitigate the hatred of the mother and win
mood, in order to baptize the child, but all was in vain, because the devil talking by the mouth
of a woman around him, not least because of the infidelity that lust, and vomiting against Holy
Missionary and against that many insults and profanity Sacramento say how many insane in the
most ardent of his fury, calling the mother to allow her to wash son in the holy waters of baptism,
for what would happen to another mother ill-advised, to offer his son to be baptized, as the
child was dropped on holy water, which out of this life.

India was the good-natured and not easily distort the trial left with nonsense crazy of his own, let
alone the false apprehension that the holy baptism was tósigo to take life, met so many old Spanish,
with gray hair, who had been baptized; so willingly gave the child to the Father, who, filled with
a generous and humble trust in God, prayed to His Majesty, and begged off that pregnancy to
Santa Fe, since it would cost more than a hint of his will, then returned to San Francisco Xavier,
asking him to look with eyes of mercy to those blind heathen, and they both sought to honor
God reached His Majesty to that holy Sacrament not only serve to rid the this innocent soul from
the bondage of the devil, but for deliverance from disease body, and offered in appreciation
of that benefit, which expected to receive, would call Francisco
Xavier.

Heaven heard the fervent prayers of his servant: for after the child was baptized, was sound of their
disease.

The same thing happened to a girl, and marriageable, whom for being all cold and stiff, the
crying their dead relatives, but after she was baptized, by large
bodies with which they requested, and upon his return from a deep
sleep, he came to himself and to life.

Whereupon, little by little ceased in the false fear that people, and mothers gave their children
to contention for that might be washed in the holy waters of baptism and healthy.

Howled with rage the demon vanished seeing their entanglements, so put all your effort to tarnish
the splendor of the smooth proceedings of one of the missionaries, with a thousand reproach
slander by some apostates who were very way that prevented them from satisfying appetite of the
flesh, with all the most awkward and dirty pleasures of sense, but in spite yours, emerged triumphant
innocence of manners and fervor of apostolic life of this good Father and was then forced the
devil to safe conduct to leave the Holy Gospel in the very broad provinces of Chaco, where
the Jesuits not only seek the conversion of the infidels, but the reform of the Spanish and Indians,
coming to confess and preach the strong Spanish that is where we like St. Joseph and Valbuena,
and accompanied the soldiers when ranging from cities to hold the barbarians who continually invade
that province, the serve as chaplains, exposing the dangers and risks
of loss of life, not have their own features and at the same time
seeking to reduce those who prey on the Spanish and baptize infants.

In these companies had worked nine years gloriously P. Machoni, when the new government of 1719
came P. designated by secretary Provincial Joseph de Aguirre, for
which because it was necessary to entrust the care of that reduction
to P. Joaquin Yegros, other two fellow Jesuits.

The new Provincial Secretary sought to encourage all efforts to convert new infidels, to cooperate
as ever the governor of the province D. Esteban de Urizar.

Year, then, in 1719, in an entry that the infidels were residents of the city San Miguel de Tucumán,
discovered a new river which was considered then to be the Pilcomayo; to the banks of the river
knew many white people lived, they were by the Spanish.

With this news the governor determined that next year were to fully discover this river thirds
of the province of Tucumán, asking for a chaplain to one of the Fathers who were in the Reduction
of San Esteban.

Then Concediólo P. Provincial, and hopeful that this discovery would much glory to God, determined
by the Paraguay River entered through the Pilcomayo which empties into that river, some Missionaries
of the Guarani, in precise order that no stop to reduce any nation and just winning the will of
the natives will penetrate to meet with the Spanish soldiers who
entered the province of Tucumán, or they the site of the Chiriguanos.

All this was preventing two purposes: first, he discovered the land and the river, could enter
the Tucuman, Paraguay and Frontera de Santa Fe, shaking hands with
everyone of these provinces to conquer the Chaco, which achieved the
conversion of many souls.

The second, open shortest path here for the Chiquitos missions, which always is highly desired
to avoid the short distance to the path of Tarija, because Zamucos presumed that were very close
to the Chaco and the Pilcomayo, and there also On this occasion entered
a Jesuit to come to find others.

He noted, therefore, the P. Provincial enter the Pilcomayo river mouth to the PP. Gabriel Lucas
Patiño Rodríguez, both born in the city of Asunción, and at the time
Missionaries of Guarani, Paraguay's college and sent his brother Bartolomé
de Niebla, Andalucia, and donated to a Portuguese named Faustino Correa,
with some Guarani Indians, so that if Parents must defend the invasion
of infidels.

By Zamucos Chiquitos Indians came in with some PP. Philip Smith and Augustine Castañares.

The province of Tucuman were unable to find Pilcomayo and finally
found the Tucumaneses discovered by the year of 1719 could not be
that river, as this is small and large Pilcomayo.

The Chiquitos, having walked the Zamucos, where it is judged to fall
into the river, never could find him.

Those who entered the mouth of the Pilcomayo were on a ship and some boats, walked the river,
always at different directions, by repeated laps running: at first found some traces of Indians,
but did not see them.

And walked about eighty miles, partly along the river, partly because
of gaps, because there are many the bank of the river, which, when
low river, remain divided about him and made ponds; but when it grows,
the whole campaign is a sea of ​​water, because they incorporate with
him.

These eighty leagues recognized that the mother of the river was not so deep that could navigate
for him the ship without manifest danger of running aground, which
determined by P. Patiño pass in the boats with his brother Fog three
Spanish and thirty-four Indians to record what remaining to achieve
the end of business, leaving in the meantime in the boat to Father
Luke Rodriguez, donated and to the other people to wait.

They came sailing the two boats and walked another three hundred leagues, in which several parties
were Indians of various nations, already confined to Chiriguaná.

Finally came to a nation not known, which seemed good-natured Indians, and were have beautiful faces
and good stature as the white Indian, Spanish appeared, they had brood mares and sheep, whose
wool fabrics make great, the horses were not number. The fertile soil in which crops are the
fruits of the country.

Jumped ashore and gave the natives many donecillos they appreciate
and thus they show much affection, who conceived hopes of reducing
later easily.

But some tuffs and Mocovíes that lay between them soured these hopes, because talking to the
Indians, incited them against us, plotting a treacherous betrayal their lives.

They were there for peace each other, in the case with many strokes as long as was necessary
to rest, when, having gone three of our Indians to cut firewood,
they attacked the Toba and Mocovíes treacherous with the Indians of
that nation, killed them both with arrows and the other badly wounded,
so he died a few days away.

The others retired to the boats that cover the Father sent some cow hides resist.

Came along to ours over 600 infidels, to the boats by shooting a storm
of arrows so thick, that looked like a swarm of locusts, but none
were harmed, because they were resistant to the skins, giving off
the arrows, and even though it has that P. Patiño was twice found
in the bow to the shooting, although all parts were falling arrows,
none touched him.

Seeing this attempted to withdraw from the furies of those barbarians, whose treachery undid
so far and hopes dashed able to penetrate the Chaco, where it was expected, as I said, reduce
many nations.

They returned, for no other fruit, with much work retracing the path of four leagues which until
then had sailed.

But back to the Reduction of San Esteban, the same year of 1721, there
were in it many families.

Kindled by this time a smallpox pestecilla, that died after two.

The others charged so scared to death that threatened them smallpox, the same day that those two
were killed, left to neglect our own and everyone fled least eighteen
adults and twenty boys.

Then it warned Fr. Joaquin Lorenzo Fanlo Yegros and mounted their horses in monitoring, and
went to reach for a few hills to Salta, but still much the thickness forest, and roughness
of the mountains, were removed, and followed on foot, with incredible
fatigue, because they fled down the right path, but always obliquely,
because they said so they could not go fever, tired of the bush and
turns.

Such is its enormity.

Parents were powerless before poderles to catch, and turning to his
people to care for those who had been sick, they sent after the fugitives
to two Indians carried with them to stop because of the eighteen adults
were killed fourteen, whom attended with great love, without fear
of contagion, and all other ill.

The two Indians found some miles
away to the fugitives, and even if they did, only they could be reduced
to come down to where they were the Parents.

They sought to roll back the reduction, but then managed only hope they finished the fever again.
Therefore, leaving them there to Parents became people to take care of those who remained,
most patients, of whom died soon fourteen adults, whom attended with great zeal and charity, to
give burial by their own hands.

The fugitives returned after some time his people, by the inquiries of our own, they always have
to work here, gloriously, the innate barbarism of all these nations,
as known by the referral.

At present this town is in extreme danger of destruction because Mocovíes
and Tovas, so far have been bridled by the value of the governor of
the province of Tucumán, main promoter of this reduction is coming
back to raise his head, and having slain the soldiers of Fort St.
Joseph and had the audacity to lay siege to Valbuena, it is feared
give in this town of San Esteban and destroy you for being helpless,
well why not Jesuit lost hope of doing much fruit in the Chaco, fulfilling
the prophecy of San Francisco Solano first apostle, who preached the
gospel to the Lules, and who no tradition in the land, who, having
predicted the ruin of the city of ETEC, which more than thirty years
has happened, also predicted that these Indians would become the Chaco.

Our

Lord wants to fulfill this prophecy as soon as possible.

CHAPTER XXII

Latest news from the Missions of Chiquitos and Chiriguanos.

Having referred to the destruction of two villages that existed between the Chiriguaná, be well
now take account of how the Jesuits returned years later to that nation.

Stood the P. Provincial Vice Luis de la Roca year 1715, visiting the
College of Tarija, the way to the Missions of the Chiquitos, when
messengers came to that town some Chiriguaná peoples of the Parents
were asked to their lands to preach our holy faith and minister to
the holy baptism.

Extrañóse this sudden change, when there was so experienced the obstinacy of these Indians and how
they were always given his old vices, a cause which had risen had
more than sixteen years of his conversion, do not expect them the
least fruit.

But it was later revealed the cause of this new resolution.

It was therefore necessary, that a Christian of the same nation, having from the faith and
religion Christian died, just judgments of God, persistent in his apostasy.

This, by divine permission, appeared in spite of hell, to many Chiriguaná,
telling how to have forsaken the Christian religion, was condemned
to burn in eternal flames.

Made remarkable upheaval in the Barbarians this vision and encouraged
them to which they were now to ask Tarija preachers of the Gospel.

Fr Vice-Provincial, by repeated experiences of the inconstancy of
these barbarians doubted granted; but eventually moved to send two
Jesuits, and for making ultimate test of his obstinacy, for yielding
to the will of the Marquis pious Tojo Valley, which strongly appealed.

He noted, therefore, for that conversion to P. Paul Restivo, who was then a school principal Salta,
and very proficient in the language that speaks Guaraní nation, and its companion P. Francisco
Guevara who was in the college of Tarija.

Two parents went there, and at the cost of great works that sought
to establish a reduction called the Immaculate Conception, for the
favor and patronage of this powerful lady Chiriguaná waiving the devil,
enlisted in the banner of Christ.

Lográronse some infants, whom he named, but the devil is opposed
to these happy early with all its machinery and effort.

Infernal
ministers Apareciéronseles horrendous and horrific forms, to whose
views fell Indians ground fainted. They came by choice to parents.
These, encouraging trust in God, then sent them hiciesen many wooden
crosses, which made put in their houses, squares, streets and hills,
worshiping them humbly barbarians.

To see hell as healthy signal
withdrew after them, and later deposed the Indians all fear without
experiencing the slightest danger. 

Observed one day in the cottage or ranch where he had stayed there a few disciplines wax pellets,
armed with acute spine and elsewhere, knowing that there was also a large number of them became
suspicious that it was a superstition, called him aside to Soriocó cacique, and wanted to
learn from him, asking the cause of this development, which I think it would make a big mistake
if the other words refer to those of that barbarous according to Father Knight said:

"- They came here (said the chief) to make their Ranchos the Borillo, people of lofty genius and
proud, that making fun of us and our customs, we had in recently. Angry us in such contempt, in
the darkest night we conjure with them, and kill all the men, women booking for our use.

"Within a short time we came upon a contagion that did such havoc, we think perish all, and
thinking it was a punishment from heaven, the penalty of that crime, we remember that Christians,
to satisfy the justice of God to shed blood disciplined the shoulders.

"Therefore, holding up aquesta cross you see here, many bitterly lashed us sometimes at the
bottom of it, asking God for mercy and forgiveness of our sins: ceased to point pestilence, so
that from that time no one died later of hits the plague, and none of the symptoms of infection
healthy, and many a night being present the people who saw him, fell from the sky a beautiful
young man with his face very bright, prostrate on the ground and adored her, and since then we have
a great reverence to this holy tree, and we embrace as soon as the faith of Jesus Christ. "So
much for the great chief.

It is not easy to explain how the holy missionary dared to lead to an end the work begun Reduction
of coupling in those towns, for instruction in the mysteries to believe, and the commandments
to be followed, seeing that God liked his designs, and blessing from
heaven with his influences.

Bye at the end of those people and straightened his trip to San Francisco Reduction Xavier,
which by January 1708, after five months at least merits for himself for work and toil tolerated
than helpful to the sky, by the conquest of so many souls came undone and consumed from the
fatigues of his apostolic ministry, to recover and breath, not in
the body, caring little, as in spirit to opening back in time, to
establish a new reduction in the countries discovered.

CHAPTER XV

Knight founded the Lucas VP Reduction of Our Lady of Conception, and is killed into the hands of
the infidels Puyzocas.

Father was ordered to Lucas, as I hinted, P. Juan visitor of those reductions Zea Baptist, to
choose a comfortable place open campaign in the midst of these settlements, different languages,
so that he could gather those people, and there be tax in civilian life, and instructed in the
divine law.

Was little to choose, for being all over the country town of very dense forests: only Tapacura
and Paunacas the valley was discovered, but for the most part was
full of holes and marshes, it was to have infinite multitude of mosquitoes
and flies by day and night causing unbearable discomfort.

However, constrained by the need, put here the Venerable Father house and gave first Reduction
to the Immaculate Conception, on the banks of a large lagoon where
people lived in many languages ​​and different customs.

These were the Paunapas, UNAPs and carabids, exceedingly savage peoples,
low morale and cowards, all men and women, brutally walk naked, and
even in different languages Manacas and customs that have the same
religion of worshiping the devil in the form they manifest.

Propúsoles the holy man, with his usual energy that they leave superstitions and the mysteries
and precepts that were to believe and save to merit the favor of
God this life and eternal bliss in the other.

They were attracted by the hope of reward, and fear of punishment,
if not obeyed to the will of God, gave word, unanimous and conform,
to obey his will soon, so that only allowed them chicha, his ordinary
drink, because water caused them sharp pains in the stomach.

These people are much given to work, because they have no other God
those closest to their fields and crops, and despise a demon, and
only estimate as soon as they are persuaded While his interests.

No use going into the woods to hunt, or go to groups and only take away from their homes that
area of ​​land that can last a bottle of that wine, which is the only provision and matalotaje
on the roads.

Father did not Lucas great difficulty in allowing the use of that
drink, because it caused them drunk, only reason to banish it from
the other reductions.

Roasted corn until it becomes charcoal, and then either walked or
put you to cook ground in a large boilers or payload of mud and dirty
black water that they take, is all composition of the chicha, that
they love so much they spend much of the day on toast lasting no work
in the field but from morning until noon, but although they promised
they leave their old evil superstitions, not so easily forgotten.

Father suspected Lucas some secretly do not observe this order, making and celebrating with funerals
and funeral rites and ceremonies of paganism, and to catch them red-handed, to put some spies.

Died
shortly after a woman determined to make the funeral unfaithful to his style. Made up for it
a shed or temple made of branches stuck, with the best work that
are possible, and set up between two sticks to the throne of the devil,
who visibly is to receive the offerings, to hear the prayers and to
acknowledge the sacrifices they make for the soul of the deceased.

Cinch the branches of a network, within which others do not enter the Mapon and the closest
relatives of the dead.

Celebrate these obsequies, that were not discovered in the dead of night, were already in the
best and most devoted of the function, when it suddenly became the Father Luke and staring into
that infamous shrine, saw in the midst of the darkness flash infernal enemy's eyes, that full
of majesty and terror was sitting on those two sticks, and though the servant of God is hair
stood on end with horror and trembled, intended however that, throw inside. Which, unable
to endure the devil disappeared at a time, stealing body and soul
to his priest, who never appeared, shouting that never would be more
in that place, where, against his will, was cast in shame and shame.

Rebuked the missionary zeal with burning zeal, his little faith, and
example of Mapon, brought alive by the devil into hell, did they know
clearly that their intention was nothing to lose them once the body
and soul.

Took home the closest Reduction of Manacas villages, leaving more distant located to the east,
the zeal of Father Francisco Hervás so that would lead the people San Francisco Xavier, but the
P. Hervás, with extreme pain and feeling not found another thing
and bones of dead bodies, for making those poor infidels a havoc the
fiery fatal contagion that had recently plagued the country.

Father was there Caballero certain notice of another nation with whom were always Manacas in wars and
hostilities, which will swell the heart in love and desire encendidísima to see them and bring
them to the knowledge of their Creator, especially that they were
so rude and wild like other peoples, at the expense of many jobs and
sweating was reduced to herd Christ.

Their settlements were well populated, with civil and political government,
the houses, streets and squares were well ordered, produced beautiful
feather coats, and women wove their clothes with great art, embroidered
with flowers in proportion and order.

The news fueled her desire to record that country and meet the natives,
and so, ignoring the risk of losing their lives, encouraged and exhorted
them to some of their neophytes accompany him.

Since, then, on the way, just played in the first land, a few miles distant, came out to meet
a gang of barbarians, who received him with a storm of arrows, not wanting by no means hearken
to his words, not because he lost the Father of his breath point and value, but rather, without
any fear, he was approaching them, seeing so much generosity, and
he could not be hit with any sight, the native fierceness moved elsewhere
so courteously and respect.

Samples received him with great kindness, presenting local fruits
and some shields beautifully adorned with feathers.

The house where he stayed fell into the temple, which took comfort to observe the rites and superstitions
in the burial of a deceased.

Entering the night they brought the corpse in the middle of the square,
where friends and relatives giving the last embraces, they put on
a bundle of wood, arranged in the form of pile, then you set on fire
and reduced the body to ashes, collected with endless ceremonies and
tears, placed them in a clay urn.

This view and show great fear and terror caused to the neophytes, and watching while it came
to the plaza many gangs hanging around people walking and taking posts and mouth-street well that
still and silent, they suspected that such funeral was available to them, so it is wanted
then put in safety, because it made him a servant of God such instances, it was necessary to leave before
dawn and come back with incredible pain him, because he lost hope
of reducing ill-disposed short that no nation to knowledge of Christ,
and to achieve in a short time a heavy gain souls for heaven.

Consoled, however, with the hope of reaping the harvest that next year, but even this hope it vanished
quite soon, because a band of European merchants of the profession as above said, suddenly gave
three of its ranches, where broken and made notable major havoc on all adults, up to burn
them alive at home when they wanted to surrender, destroyed completely, leading by slaves the
whole crew of children and women died that much in the way, delivered
to the work and cruelty of these barbarians winners.

Intended for all that, the Apostolic Father move on, but he found so confining people poisoned
by this most cruel massacre, treacherously contrived and concocted, who wanted revenge injury
in the lives of new Christians, for which he was obliged to retire with readiness for the innocent
not paying the penalty of the guilty, deferring the company when the weather put an offense
in oblivion and relief from both his zeal in other lands, whose inhabitants was gathering on the
new reduction, which moved to more comfortable place for the health
of catechumens, in a plain east of the band looked to the Puyzocas,
the north to the Cosiricas Cozocas and to the Western.

Here was no respite from the fatigues, placing the barbarians, with incredible patience, civil
and political traditions, teaching the observance of the precepts of God's law and instructing
them in the mysteries of faith being the continuous task of every time and of all times, and
lost to himself, attended only the good of our neighbor, so that even the necessary food to
sustain life was just day not dealt with its Christians, joyful and happy to delay the glory
of their Lord, and buying, at the expense of their sweat, the eternal bliss to those miserable
heathen, and when tired both the nature of work requested some rest, hid in the church, all absorbed
in divine things, was fired with love of God, therefore, who could not depart from his beloved well,
until unable to endure over the lean body, took that short sleep was necessary for breath and strength,
returning with more spirit and determination to cultivate those new plants. I was thinking meanwhile
the Apostolic raids that do to the Cosiricas meditated, at opening time, especially since they
sent him an embassy that was to enroll in the number of converts,
offering comfortable place to found in it a reduction.

Entered into doubt whether it would be of service to God to accept the offer of such Cosiricas
or go to the Puyzocas on that did not seem to make some decision before knowing what was the
will of God, for which, in the space of many months, with darker night gathered to pray (taking
for himself the night and giving our neighbor the day Keep your needs) to the Guardian Angels
called those nations that lit understanding with a ray of light, so that he could know for sure
what was in this business the divine blessing: and interior light or revelation was that the
will and pleasure God was to pass to the lands of Puyzocas, and to set to any risk, without
If her life, and I do not know how (because the news that those reductions
have not been expressed).

He also had announcements that the sky had already heard their pleas, and determined to comply to
his wish to sacrifice their lives for the glory of his Creator; and what were the joys your
heart and what the joys, the easier it is to think to say. But nevertheless wanted God take some
of that excess sweetness in his soul he was happily flooded, allowing the bottom to work and give
to do at the top, to be both more glorious the triumph and the palm, the victory was more difficult,
because running the veins in a cold sweat, turned pale and was represented as fierce light of death
many times did you come into question if he should run this company, and every time I thought
it shook everything, and showed signs on the outside of the inner battle, and do not know if
by their common diseases or new distemper of humours that caused them all members that match
the spirit and the flesh, I went down to the legs, wicked humor which obliged him to bed, intending,
apparently, nature, to those ends, preserve life, to whom so closely threatened death, and
in fact V. Father was large perplegidad and anguish of mind, so that he dared not resolve itself
and was a pitiable sight to see battle with himself, winning again, and leaving the other up,
always thoughtful and as impressed with this fight.

At last God turned the eyes of his mercy to V. Father, who for so long, in hunger, thirst, poverty
and many hardships, had been his most faithful servant, and penetrating the depths of soul
with a light beam, clarified that dense fog, which previously was in darkness and darkness,
and imbuing it with such courage and encouragement in the spirit,
losing the first set the meat, said with great courage:

"- That would
feel so much disgust, in spite of himself, put to work."

Are his words, and was already on the game, wrote to a comisionero
him, giving him confident of what happened and asking for her prayers,
he said:

- Quidém Promptus Spiritus est, caro autem infirm.

Finally, we set out for the Puyzocas, accompanied by thirty-six newly Manacas baptized, and
came to the first land of the nation, was received with samples great love and kindness, presenting the
fruits of the country people in great abundance and concealing so what machines: from there to
the second Rancheria, but carried in the arms others, because that through the weakness of the
body as a dam that was involved, no could have standing, here was also greeted with joy and alhagüeñas
false words the traitors have already premeditated, and having fun the chief in conversation concealing
in his bosom their damaged attempts, meanwhile ordered his people carrying strangers to their
houses, dividing them so that there would few in each, to make and shooting with more confidence.

Just
the new Christians were sitting at the table, not knowing what to
them is plotted, troops suddenly left many naked women, which threw
some black lines on their faces (ceremony that uses this nation who
want to kill) which Christians marveled much, and then fell upon them
many Indians great rage and killed, with little work, to most Christians.

Escaped,

by good fortune, for the massacre a few, which were to point to give notice to P. Knight, who,
having been only in his Rancho, all absorbed in God praying the Divine Office, and not see him
having a neophyte exposed to ravages of those barbarians put on their backs to rid his life by
flight.

It was in vain, for not wanting the traitors escape them from the hands that whom both hated
by the holy law they preach, followed and drove a arrow in the back.

Feeling mortally wounded Father asked the neophyte to leave him there,
and then nailing ground a cross, in his hands, knelt in front of her
offering the blood that poured from his own murderers, and invoking
the sweet names of Jesus and Mary, cracked and broken heavy blows
to the head of mace, gave up his spirit hands of his Creator on September
18, 1711.

The same purpose had twenty-six of his fellow neophytes who managed
to sort of give their lives in witness to the faith which had recently
begun to profess.

Libróse a boy she used to help mass, which, seeing things in bad data mounted his horse, and at
full speed could escape, and into the dense forest, where in company other neophytes who had
also fled, came just devoured Reduction Immaculate Conception, where the wounds, five died within
a few days.

Thus ended the VP Lucas during his sermon, full of many hardships, toil and hardship, with
the greatest display of love for God and neighbor, sacrificing himself to all, bring to the
knowledge of their Creator who lived in darkness and shadow of the Gentiles.

Yet it did not give satisfied the cruelty of the barbarians, so soon after, fearing that they
should come and punish his infamous betrayal of the Conception Christians,
they sent spies to observe the movements of the faithful, and found
outside a village people, an Indian killed and captured and brought
two women, which caused such terror in the Concepcion town, they all
were fleeing through the woods as if they were already enemies doors,
so it was necessary to Father Juan de Benavente beg the government
of Santa Cruz de la Sierra that he should put a brake on boldness
and ferocity of the Puyzocas.

Then came a company of brave soldiers to subdue that nation and avenge
the death of P. Knight and his holy body to carry this reduction.

The Spanish arrived there at sunset, so wanted to wait until the next day to collect the sacred
ashes.

In the darkest of night they saw, not far from where they had camped, a flame as a torch, which
is often turned on and off

.
 And even willingly submitted to it, not counting
by that of his humanist campaign Santander, because at that age and enclosed in a no school
is not a fair idea of ​​these things as delicate and complex. Made test for seven years studying
in Madrid, was what he expected: The ultimate triumph of his first inclinations.

- Are you sure - I said following my system interruptions and questions for more than spontaneously
offered me a pleasant brevity - of having put his hand all the effort that required the company?

-
Absolutely sure! - I replied without hesitation, and said smiling:
I can swear to you that I took this line of study time well.

- Well,
it seems very strange result - I said -, judging by my own feelings.

-
Why? - Asked me very seriously.

- Because it is so usual and common
among young men of the personal to you; because with them and in Madrid
and in continuous contact with the world and its goodies, it is natural
that they are going to take a taste.

- I did not say I disliked me
- quickly, "the doctor -.

What we have is that these treats, not dislike, I met, I filled, and always left me awake appetite
of nothing but the taste of my taste.

- And what was that thing, may I ask?

- It's here, the native land.

-
But what the hell can you find in it in palatable to that point! -
I cried then, truly amazed.

- What's missing in the other - he answered
instantly.

- I do not get it - concluded.

- Neither is easy - I
said very quietly - from the point of view of you, so different mine.

-
Different - added - according to and under, for, after all, this is
a man who has seen the world than a hole, hence my surprise precisely.

Then looked at me with some insistence mediquillo suspicious, he changed
his position twice in his chair, smiled a bit and finally said:

 They sensed the coming of the enemy, and seeing without strength
or weapons for them to stand in a meeting and open resistance campaign, determined repaired with industry,
because they could not defend themselves with weapons.

In order to this they did to hide some narrow road next to a jungle where they had to pass the
enemies, and hidden here and waited until they came to this narrow way, against those who were
discovered after the trees, played his poisoned arrows except with poison so active, being wounded
to fall dead was very little happening.

Those who remained alive explored everywhere where it came from that storm, and then some time
fell into the trick, but then failing to avenge that otherwise injury
or death of peers, which saved her breasts revenge for another time,
against his will, had to go back.

Therefore, at the beginning of the following year they embarked on a body of the Paraguay River and
entered into the lagoon Mamoré provided and landed at the port of Itatines. Hence continued
their defeat by East-Midi, and sometimes through very thick forests, other very rugged mountains
rising (how can greed), leading to the settlements of the Taus, and made them fair game, went
to execute his revenge in Penoquíes that lost very confident, because although Rancheria Rancheria
in word spread up the people of San Francisco Xavier of the enemy came, they did not step in preventing
some defense, or at least to retire and take refuge in that reduction, and because they can would
not then when they wanted, they could not escape their lives, because
those wicked walking with industry to get rid of their poisoned arrows,
fell upon them unexpectedly.

Notwithstanding this, the mood had Penoquíes to expose to the defense as best they could and
resist the first encounter, but the enemies, cunning and shrewd, somewhat detained pretending
were preparing to fight, but it was just to make time for the fellow
hiciesen rearguard landowners on the other side and cogiesen the mob
of women and children.

They warned the Indians that when the enemy had made their attempt, they found themselves deceived
with the loss of clothing so loved, for whose defense had taken up arms, were discouraged completely,
which turns the back as best they could, they retreated to the forests without resistance of
the victors, who felt that the love of their blood the slaves would volunteer as in fact happened,
for which reason the victors did not put them in prison but treated them with kindness and
courtesy, and views of the chiefs of colorful costumes and ornaments, promising thousand joys
and happiness in San Pablo and thereby deceive and take them for
guidance to other lands and to arrive at the San Francisco Xavier
reduction, already had moved, transporting it to the other side of
the San Miguel River.

Came the news of this misfortune to the people of that was inexplicable Chiriguaná the grief
that had the P. Arce, seeing that the enemy like a whirlwind out
of the abyss, that razed his Paradise, which had cost both the plant
and the point was desalted to repair and defend the lives of their
neophytes.

To this end, not without great risk of his, wanted to register the
country to observe more closely steps of the enemy, and through the
villages of Boxos, partitions and Taus, was received of them with
pleasure.

Here those who had escaped him news of the designs of the Mamalucos, and taking during the storm
which threatened them, persuaded them came together in a body and sleeves a reduction in advantageous
place to fend off the incursions of those infernal beasts and what
before had been unable to collect petitions, putting them on the grounds
their eternal salvation; got it now the desire to save their lives.

Themselves together, then, all bathed in a river plain Jacopo, which was given shortly before
Reduction principle to San Rafael, well suited to defend themselves because of a very thick jungle,
where they had placed all their hopes, and removed his few Alhajuela there, no dared to shake from
that position until this storm calmed down with the Apostolic Father, who stood there for a few
days in order to penetrate the designs of the enemy, had occasion comfortable to baptize the
children and instruction in the mysteries of our holy faith to the large fear to whom slavery
was a wake Mamalucos to go out and of the devil, but the Father, warned that time would not
baptize them, reserving for a better opportunity to satisfy their desires, and encourage them
to perseverance, turned the Reduction San Francisco Xavier, and from here, with all haste, came
to Santa Cruz Sierra, to report to the Governor of the enemy's movements, and join encourage weapons
to people to take the field to fight with him and put to flight, which was not very to do
to move as innate piety of the Spanish who shines everywhere also that the value by making them
to take their trespasses Chiquitos Indians and defend himself with his own blood that new church,
namely that one could rightly fear that the pride of Mamalucos also dared to invade the city
if they did not saliesen the meeting to cut switchbacks or the steps.

Alistáronse therefore few hours in hundred and thirty soldiers, well armed with weapons and ammunition
and the main thing of value, and because time was not much room, they marched to long hours to the
town of San Francisco Xavier, which collected about three hundred highly skilled Indians playing
the bow and arrow, went looking for the enemy to the lands of believing Penoquís would find
there the quartered, when by means of spies knew they had entered in the town of San Francisco Xavier,
which they had abandoned and left shortly before, wherein like Mamalucos
have not found anything to steal were preparing to go to surprise
the city of Santa Cruz.

With this new joy was inexplicable that showed the value waiting in Spanish able to give their
due to those infamous, which was to be feared or predicted heart Captain ominous enemies, as seen
in San Francisco Xavier many footprints horses, suspected that the Spanish were ready and wanted
to turn back, which would implemented to some Indians had not told
the country that had recently been there the cattle Reduction San
Francisco Xavier.

Straightened, then, the march our army to where the enemies were encamped, and into the night
arrived near where they were and determined to await the morning
of Next, it was the glory of the Spanish martyr San Lorenzo, principal
lawyer and pattern that province, to present the battle.

With that the soldiers had some time to rest, and as he did not believe that the battle had to
be very bloody for both sides to have to fight with people so skilled
in use weapons, they wanted the most fine-God part of your consciousness,
for I heard the confession which six parents who had come from this
end there.

In this he spent much of the night, and having taken a bit of sleep,
at dawn to dawn touched up, sending officers arrayed soldiers, and
the gun point, move the sight of the enemy and if not surrender weapons,
attacked.

But God had taken his account of the punishment of the wickedness of those wicked, now did they
paid the penalty, and particularly the captains, who were here dead together once paying all debts
of the evils they had committed in the destruction of the peoples of the Holy Spirit Villarica
in the government of Paraguay, providing the victory was not at the expense of much blood on
both sides as previously thought but at the expense of ours and a lot of enemies because while
an Indian intimated the order to the enemy, anticipating certain
soldiers to receive the arms of the captains, a servant of these firing
a fusilazo stopped them, killing one of them.

He could not suffer this Andrew Florian valiant Spanish gentleman, and then responded with another
similar shot, that shot down in the ground at Ferraez Antonio de Araujo, and drawing his knife
attacked to Manuel Frias and he stabbed her to death, being the first step the two captains dead
enemies. With this being the Mamalucos without leaders, without government and without the strength,
they were troubled the everything, and threw his arms into the river
that they received, not for free as expected, but to bury them in
their current, already tired, how much effort they made, could not
escape.

Displaying the Spanish and obviously our neophytes that God was on their side, were with great
spirit in scope, and a storm of arrows and musket shot them, made them bloody havoc. Missionaries
also our wish to enter to the party in fact so great, assisting with the crucifix in hand, and
regardless of life went ahead with their spiritual weapons, not only
in support of the victors, but also the defeated, whom they sought
help.

The enemy only six escaped with their lives, including three badly
wounded, were prisoners.

Our casualties were few, and only eight dead, two Indians and six Spanish.

The party was amazing and joy of the Spanish and Indians as our signal victory obtained so little
cost, and it was common sense that God had fought with them against their enemies in defense of their
honor and this new Christianity.

So the soldiers His Majesty gave solemn thanks to the military, with repeated rifle fire and
muskets and the Indians with tournaments and games to their custom, they concluded the joy of
that day.

But it was not complied with the happy, because while trying to exterminate the rest of enemies
who had remained in the land of the Penoquís in the dam guard who rode more than fifteen hundred
souls, and completely clean the country, were born, I do not know from what source, some disagreements
between the ropes, with which it had the best advice and break camp
back to the city of San Lorenzo, where saliéronlos to receive the
governor, mayors and with the city council, were greeted with festive
ringing of the bells of all Many churches and artillery that fired
the castle, and for many days celebrated with great magnificence that
nothing short of miraculous victory.

Mamalucos The three who escaped, walked with the speed as possible following his escape and
took so sad news to his companions, who, knowing his hope against all the ultimate destruction of their
own, were stiff with fear, and as if they saw near him to the victors, they left in a hurry,
taking the more slaves they could, and shipped in the Paraguay River and Rowing vogue sailed
to San Pablo Road, when encountering a company of his own countrymen who went to the same
purpose of capturing pieces (as called here) or Indians, told them the incident referred to, but
those who came from St. Paul, heard the cause so unusual in that they gave back to their land
so lost morale, began to circumvent that such meetings were discouraged by both, with that and
shame, and with hope to remake the lost past, that changed his mind and joined with them, and
all Rancherías together gave about some Indians, which were rejected with bravery and value, for
which, against his will, with little more than empty hands, were
obliged to go to San Pablo.

As they crossed the pond Mamore Guarayos some great time that had militated his salary, his eyes
open and turning it upon themselves to ponder the little good and much bad that they did, and
that finally he could not expect more than a hazardous profession death miserable by the end
of an unhappy life, decided to drop out and find somewhere to live safely and rest, and using
the darkness of night retreated westward to a campaign, two days ahead of the lake, and no
women were found Curacanes friendships with, their neighbors on the side of the North. These,
then, not long after, wanting to get out of paganism and become Christians,
they came to live and make our home in San Juan Bautista Reduction.

Was a rewarding victory, because since then I have not risked more Mamalucos to set foot on
the contours of those reductions, and only planted in 1718 a fort on the banks of the Paragua
River, eighty miles distant from the town of San Rafael, that is expected to soon turned to God
for fifty or sixty thousand souls, as promised we hope, will prevent them from also doing corso
by that river, because neophytes by a singular privilege of our Catholic kings, may use firearms
that can easily break the pride of these pirates, as in the missions of Guarani, who never
ceased to bother until those people gave a great Mamalucos rotates
to five thousand who had gone to the final extermination of that Christianity.

CHAPTER

VI

With past events warms something holy faith: Father dies Antonio Fideli
and talk length of the work of missionaries.

Although the fortunes of this storm did not undo this new Christianity, however, moved slightly and
cut not the best time during prosperous new increases, because August, hopes to increase flowering
with a good number of souls Reduction San Francisco Xavier, and even found some in the Penoquís,
Quicmes Xamar and who were willing to enlist in the number of the
faithful, but rather of the accident came the destruction of Chiriguaná
the two reductions, even as distant and remote from danger.

No one spoke to the learned gentleman air Agustin de Arce, when he
said was lost in vain time and work with these people, and now I played
with the hands of the missionaries, to which those barbarians loved
only for what they pulled from their poverty.

Much as the Padres did not want to go to the Divine Office or hear
the Christian doctrine that upon entering the night was explained,
even wanted to give a boy to assist them in the estates of the house
and serve the church and cultivate a small little garden.

With all that the missionaries persevered suffering great inconvenience and will work easier
to tolerate was hoping to catch some fruit of patience, until angry the barbarians of so many
sermons and speeches that made them throw them in the country were determined pretext that
they were sent by Mamalucos to collect them and deliver them all in their hands as they had (as
they said) made with the Chiquitos, though there were between many
that this lie was seen by witnesses to have been serving the Spanish
referred to the war.

Divulgóse this voice for the people, and was by them or by malice of evil ploy of the devil losing
much in the conversion of the barbarians, the mob began to make many abuses the venerable P.
Knight and P. Lucas Felipe Suarez, rather than with detestable audacity verifications fire
to the church, where by this insult, they were obliged to go out and spend to a farm or cottage
not far, but even this could stop because the barbarians searched
everywhere armed with bows and clubs, and if not shattered hubiéranlos
had been waiting for their bosses because they were not very far away.

Viewing our things were in such a bad face, resolved in the dark of
the night retreat to Santa Cruz de la Sierra and hence pass to Pari,
where he had Reduction moved San Francisco Xavier. 

The private houses are also to share and they welcome foreigners they're going to visit. And what
you admire is not used to manufacture other instrument than a stone ax to chop wood with very
thick, but with difficulty.

The women take great care in the factory cloth and glasses of land, which leave rot long clay
vessels and style as beautiful and delicate that the sound look like
metal.

Their villages are not very far from each other, and that's why they frequent communication
Treats and drunkenness.

When a Rancheria want to make a feast to
those of another, the chief sent to some messengers and invite them
at home will make the dances and general dancing. 

VII

With two guides so complacent and so experts like mine, soon
met the main paths, ravines and gorges, wildlife and flora of the
mountains nearest the contour; I lost the fear I instilled the "hints"
or discovered along the cliffs, being be noted that there is no way
small or large is not a hint continued, and gained the ease and strength
of my legs lacked the same principle to support me on uphill slopes
than down, ie if he was, because it is the absolute truth in the saying
instead, that in this craggy region there is no other plain the room
of Don Celso.

No climbed to great heights, because it shows me much tempting of that caste, nor did my rough
guide to great lengths to encourage me to overcome the inclinations of my complexion relatively
lazy, but why not let meet my little curiosity in the contemplation of beautiful scenery. Finally,
I also met major ports in winter and summer, which send their cattle in the valleys surrounding,
and admired the freshness of those brañas ("flocks") in tight, thin grass, real big bald in
the middle of dense forests and vegetation powerful. Each These plaques are, in the ports
of summer, a hut, and the other a 'winter' hut to shelter people who herd cattle, and the winter,
building large and robust of lime and stone, barn and stables for a good herd of cattle. Usually,
each winter correspond to the cattles of eight or ten co-owners of "hazas" or contiguous parts
of the brane. Some of these winter were already occupied. At night the cattle eat pinned to the
manger, of "priming" the barn, mowed in August hazas, pasta day outdoors, while time consent,
the care of their owners, who after leaving gathered at dusk down to sleep in the village,
unlike in summer, during which they sleep huddled in the hut, leaving the cabin "acurriada",
ie, the flock gathered around it. The stud are more independent and free, and stood, wild state,
where less we thought.

Pete was very rough, and it happened more than once I go very careless and feel my back a ferocious
roar that made me make two turns in the air. It was the shotgun's gaznápiro: a escopetón older and
patched the jokes, he had made one of hers. Pito not tired to tell anyone or taking the slightest
precaution when a part is put throw, ie, as he peered, both in the air than for Matos, who
through the mountains is over, because for a weapon the size of yours and the stuck shrapnel that
had not far and fences: it threw in the face, and above of my shoulder or between the legs
of Chisco, as requested by the situation of things and people, without getting tired of saying
'there goes that', "puuunnn!" It was like the end of world: the mountains tremble, and the
piece was not only dead, but in tatters, because He did not lose
once, or a single grain piece of shrapnel escopetón.

And the piece was a hare, a fox, a bobcat, a "Aeschylus" (squirrel), a pheasant or a vermin
of regular size, it is very noticeable that in this and other similar strains are animals he
encounters one going for a walk, even for sites nearest to the people clothing as elsewhere in
the world, is not it, with the domestic cat, loving dog or poultry.

Chisco behaved very differently than his comrade: everything was unchanged in most at least
that its placidity of the continent. If I put a piece shot with a hand me stopped smoothly,
with the other pointed to me, and with an expressive gesture or half word I implied that was
down to me.

If I wandered the coup, as was almost always, he'd he amended, if not anticipated the shotgun
from where less could Chorcos wait, and I noticed in the first case, some malicious pleasure
in the look me directed, while kicking the victim on the floor or down from the sky tumbling
as if to say: "Nah, you how not val Vey a pitu that shotgun, to be as nice as it is?"
 

Has been a cause of its decline the continuous raids or huts (as we call here) of Mamalucos of
Brazil, Paraguay and crossing the river by large dams in these miserable, reduced to nothing
to these people. And as many times shall I write the wickedness of these people, not outside
of them attempt to give here a brief news.

The valiant Portuguese nation had founded many colonies in the Mediterranean parts Brazil, one
of them was Piratininnga, or as others say, San Pablo. Its inhabitants, by lack of European
women, mixed their blood with the unholy noble barbarians, better said he spotted him, for
the children, leaving them more like mothers to the fathers, soon degenerated so embarrassed and
runs the neighboring cities, resigned their friendship, and because the vileness of these are
not even slightly empañare candor generosity Lusitanian name in the world, called Mamalucos. Mantuviéronse
much devotion they God and his prince by the admirable zeal of P. Joseph Ancheta and his companions,
who founded College there, until he tired of living adjusted to the dictates of conscience, and losing
fear to the laws, to cast our Fathers and threw off the yoke of both majesties divine and so human,
that obey the King of Portugal when they were good, and God, when the need was extreme.

To these were joined together large numbers of men lost, Italian,
Spanish, Dutch and dregs of all nations, to escape the deserved punishment
for their crimes, or to giving free living to all kinds of vices and
dishonesty, and the ugly corrupted and malignant impressions of modern
heretics, to increase the number and the pride of the inhabitants
and residents of San Pablo.

And indeed, the site of the city, the climate of the earth, all was well adapted to genius depraved
and brutal life. It is founded some thirteen miles from the ocean on a cliff that are everywhere around
cliffs that are inaccessible input, if not by a narrow path, which
may prevent very few men at the foot of the mountain there some villages
to serve the Governor, of strangers and merchants, to whom not allowed
to pass below, the weather is templadísimo to be in twenty-four degrees
between the two torrid and temperate zones, and air so pure and healthy
that makes him one of the more enjoyable and delicious these West
Indian countries.

Land, and for the benefit of nature and art by industry produces everything needed to spend your
life with comfort, abundant wheat, livestock, sugar and other flavorings it can provide to
the surrounding land with plenty, and they lack either rich minerals gold and other metals. Free
because of all the natural law of this city, occurred discourse by the outline, making slaves
of the Indians in large crowds, stealing their property; and seeing that there had been any punishment
on them, but published only a few prohibitions and edicts have been
obeyed, have continued for one hundred and thirty years his infamous
robberies, which were of two million people known to have destroyed
or reduced miserable slavery to have been depopulated some Spanish
cities and over a thousand miles ground to the Marañón, our province
is experiencing the fury of their first throw in the destruction of
fourteen reductions that had been founded with amazing works and sweating
in the nation of the Guarani, who number about five hundred thousand
had reduced to the bosom of our holy faith.

Truth is that many companies do not enjoy one hundred parts, for the most part, consumed of work
and inconvenience of the road to San Pablo, died before arriving, and other employees in the
work of the mines or in the cultivation of fields, with little support and many blows and bad treatment,
not being on the other hand used to working in quickly consumed and annihilated, and royal know
I've seen, that three hundred thousand Indians enthralled in the space of five years, Brazil
came to rescue more than twenty thousand. Nor was it only the damage we have caused these cruel
men, the worst is making us loathsome and abhorrent to all nations, using the same traces and
industries that use and rely our Missionaries to reduce Gentile knowledge of the true God and
to the observance of His holy law. Pretend, then, these Mamalucos who are Jesuits, using the
name of the Father, venerable name and considers much to all people, even the unbelievers
make one subject, other than, and even provincial, and in broken
Spanish suffered by the year 1696 was made a prisoner named John Rodriguez,
who added the title of Payguazú that Guaraní is the same as Father
Grande.

Then, waving crosses and showing pictures of Christ Our Lord and His Blessed Mother, come into
the land, touching people with gifts and witchcraft, persuading leave their native soil and
its poor Ranchos to found a large reduction, together with other people, and when and are
insured to get into prison chiefs and principal ahead and take the mob.

This infernal cunning suspect has made us fully to these nations, and often take risks in life
and spoil our business, as has happened in travel the river Paraguay, in which no infidel is
to trust us.

But our Lord does not leave unpunished, even in this life, evil so great, because most are bad
deaths, and the worst is that rare is that they will repent and ask forgiveness of his sins
and wickedness, because they are drawn from despair and go to hell
and no subject of ours, an eyewitness, who said that in the year aforesaid
broken 1696, none of those who died in the camp or drowned in the
river, called confession and gave sign of repentance.

But despite these Mamalucos, and by fraud, fire hydrants already have done so horrendous havoc
in these countries, unable to resist with their weak and skinny arms sometimes, in many reunions,
is back with his hands on his head, and has been subjected his pride
for the Indians, because they, once arrested for beating to death
or have been ported with such courage and effort, and in ambushes,
and open campaigning, face to face has expired pride enemy prisoners
leaving the prison who wanted to take the Indians.

CHAPTER IV

Da principle P. Joseph de Arce to the new Church of the Chiquitos, overcome many difficulties.

Entered,
then, since the year 1691 passed the Father Provincial of the province, Gregorio Orozco, to visit
the College of Tarija to go there to land and test the Chiriguanos , at least for some little
time the hardships that his subjects had to tolerate after for years and found in one of many
hazards that after they had to live continuously.

Here he received letters from the governor of Santa Cruz de la Sierra and pleas from P. Arce,
since Tarichea had come to send fire more closely to both business service God and the good
of souls, in hope that one day have the fortune of water with sweats this new field and shed on it,
finally, blood, preaching the faith.

Provincial puzzled found himself in the resolution that would, for
the zeal of health souls persuaded him to embrace the same time many
companies and give principle, the it were possible, to new works for
the expansion of faith, on the other hand, saw the largest shortages
of workers who had and that they could hardly keep the old missions,
the undertake more new ones.

Weighing therefore carefully and maturely these reasons, it seemed that the former not only counterbalanced,
but prevailed during the second waiting on God to provide for missionaries, and in fact happened
since that year came to Buenos Aires forty-four subject of the Company that will much matter to
the history of this province, and despatched from Spain P. Attorney of this province, Francisco Altamirano
Diego, in charge of P. Antonio Parra, who was coming top of all.

With this, the P. Ordered Orozco P. Arce was looking for the source of the Paraguay River exploring
in the meantime the will of the Chiquitos and other nations that
are disposed to receive Holy Baptism, and along the shore of that
river hopes for parents Constantino Diaz, a native of Ruins, Sardinia,
Juan María Pompey, of Benevento, in the kingdom Naples, Diego Claret,
Namur, in the Gallo-Belgium; Juan Bautista Neuman, of Vienna, Austria;
Enrique Cordula, Prague, in Bohemia, Felipe Suarez of Almagro in La
Mancha, Pedro Lascamburu, superior to all of Irun, in Guipuzcoa, all
of them, leaving the Guarani missions, begun on the water the way
to the lake for Xarayes be their partners in the conversion of those
peoples.

Alegre the holy man with possession of so much happiness, as being worthy of a designated Mission
without losing time point, we started from Tarija with the brother Antonio Rivas, and arrived
at Santa Cruz de la Sierra, was rigged and to move forward in their
defeat, when the hell that much interested in who conceived his plan,
he stood up against a whirlwind of persecution so fierce, if I had
not found a heart and as apostolic zeal, had enough to contrast fully:
because having happened another governor, Don Augustine Arce, moved
things took a different face and color, and knowing his intentions,
sought from his purpose with as many reasons and authority could,
saying was that a company that would not happily suffer more fatigue
than to get it, that being the Chiquitos, as they say, very barbaric
and brutal, how was able to hold grade the yoke of Christ and his
depraved ways to curb the narrowness of the Evangelical Law, if they
ever want to apply to any of the many idolatries of the confining
to be very satisfied with the dissolution of its procedures?

How could he make love of God and neighbor in hearts lacking, even from what nature gives to the beasts
more cruel and savage? That was a lot of their animosity, if it was not covered with heat rash,
throw in wanting to die, at least you were wrong, to be sold barbarously, that no was relying on
the willingness of those savages had shown to be Christians, for all did he neglect to leave the Spanish,
and catching them unawares, stealing the estates with insults. And when those are not reasons
to abandon the Maars company, notices and knew that the weather was
extremely harmful to the complexion of strangers and almost every
year suffering from infection those people, not to forgive him.

That therefore straighten their designs to another harvest and choose another field that accounts
for fruit crop with more worthy of their labors.

With these and other arguments of this ilk tried many gentlemen (I should say the same hell) off
the burning charity which burned in the bosom of the Father Joseph, but seeing no profit,
tried another machine more formidable. This was the interest, the only transmission of things
done, or that have to do for God.

He had formed long before a company (let's call it that) of European
merchants made Indian fair, and bought so cheap that a woman with
her son, was as good as between us is worth a sheep with her lamb.

They entered in the Indian lands surrounding and within a short time were large dam slave, and when
they were not enough, under the pretext of avenging any injury received, giving suddenly on
the past and sword Rancherías people who could bear arms, or if not burned alive inside their homes,
took captive the mob, and sold in Peru of expensive goods, with which a year riding the gain
many thousands of crowns.

Wearing poorly piety of the Spanish who had just greed destroyed and those people infamous and the
good name of the nation, and felt no less faith that such evils theirs the most abominable hiciesen
discredited or with all nations, but not the clear break with those merchants and disturbing
the province, did not dare the Rulers to claim in the Supreme Court, until the last years, stimulated
our missionaries, the Moxos and Chiquitos, complained seriously of the Royal Court Chuquisaca,
but goods have gone to so iniquitous defend in court a certain person of great authority and
together rich and powerful, that wise Senate, fearing a revolution in the province, had the
most successful board refer the whole case to Prince Santo Bonola Viceroy and Captain General
of these kingdoms of Peru, who with Christian piety dispatched stringent provisions, on pain
of wastage of goods and banishment from the country, to any who dared to buy and sell to the
Indians and the Governor to allow her, condemned privavación of office and fined twelve thousand
dollars for the Royal Treasury.

Thus, with incomparable joy and jubilation of the Spanish, was banished and completely exterminated
throughout the province of Santa Cruz de la Sierra is infamous commodity,
which supported the greed had remained there standing strong, with
great pain of jealousy.

I wanted to refer to everything said here, taking over the infidels that link to circumstances
of time they happened. Now continue our story.

Having thus arrived P. Joseph at Santa Cruz, found that the seat brought these goods and as supported
by the authority of people with a lot assumption, that at least constant
chest his firm, whom he never scared fear, or human respect would
have been impossible resist the force of many contrasts, so it is
inexplicable what he suffered and worked to eradicate unjust treatment
as, for casting to see stakeholders to put our foot in those nations
had to follow some impairment of their interests and even acabárseles
of all, he resisted with every effort, anticipating in advance what
Not long after that happened, that our Catholic kings, by request
of ours, vassals would those peoples, free and independent and would
head in Royal Crown, that they would ruin their grangerie irreparable.

But it was empty all the batteries that blow against his plan, because when this holy man knew
God was he undertook, had no human respect, fear of danger pregnancies and powerful force to
make him take a step back, not abandon it started.

Brought very effective prayers and supplications, and knew about spirit energy so that those
merchants, taking note of the wicked and cruel, they gave up, I should say and more truth, persuaded
that, consumption of the many jobs that needed to suffer, or dead at the hands of the barbarians,
life would end soon, gave free passage to vent their holy zeal.

All that was missing and who guides you on your journey, because without it was impossible to enter
and enter the land of the Chiquitos, and I am convinced that not then find some practical ways,
was cunning and trace the demon, which provided the ruin that was to cause their party to the zealous
missionary. But he was restless and kept no stone unturned to get your condución to those
provinces that at the expense of many jobs found, Finally, two men of endurance, with whom he arranged
to guide him and bear until the early settlements of the Piñocas.

Triumphant, because, this way all the hell that had conspired against him is set off on the ninth of
December, and knowing that the spread was at that time large ripples in these people, every
moment seemed a century to arrive early and remedy, since no bodies,
at least those wretched souls.

For this seemed slightly thrown by the cliffs, climbing very high mountains, ford rivers very dangerous,
very muddy crawl through swamps and deep and have greater risks of life before them all was
an indescribable softness, always being fixed the heart and mind in the extreme neglect of
these poor nations were, not had quiet rest or seeing the loss of so many, and what he came to
the soul, they same, grade, asked to be washed in the salutary waters of holy baptism.

Finally, the last of December, arrived more dead than alive for many jobs, fatigue and pains
he suffered, to the lands so sought-after Piñocas.

Unexplained was the comfort he received the good father to see his
fiery fully satisfied desires, but tempered his elation serious miseries
and sufferings of their beloved Chiquitos; sacábale many tears to
the eyes to see those unfortunate lines and thrown by soils: some
in the open, without shelter some, others with just the repair of
a covered hut only a few leaves, and others struggling with death,
and many killed in their infidelity; traspasábale the heart to hear
some lament inconsolably for dying relatives without having had the
good fortune to be (say) children of God, as you request them with
great had requested.

But in the midst of calamity was of great comfort and joy to those Barbarians in their countries
see a minister of our holy faith.

And tratáronle received him with tender affection, willingly giving of their poverty and giving him
some wild fruits, which were the delight of more money they had in those miseries. Suplicáronle
stay with them and not to abandon them in the midst of grief, promising build churches and
houses and provide what is necessary for their livelihood. Condujéronle from here to a place
not far, saying they chose there off site and then would be all together
to start a taper.

So, seeing and considering the P. Arce the willingness of the people, and if absent of them
left in total despair, he resolved to stay, and being now near the time of the rains that flooded
the campaigns and close the roads to go to find the banks of the Paraguay River to its conmisioneros,
coming from the Guarani Reductions, seemed more according to the orders that led to his provincial
air and get done here first to this new Christianity that was so
good hope that henceforth correspond with the crowd and fervor of
the faithful to the culture and evangelical zeal of the workers.

 Seeing in this set, called Fr license
Thomas Provincial Baeza for his large vote Advocate San Francisco Xavier, that if he met life,
employ in the conversion of infidels. Fr Provincial recognizing and hopeless, gave license to
welcome their vote, and after him, I accepted the Ghost from the sky, for sending your evil force,
in a few days left completely healthy.

And at that time it was with great heat of conversion to our holy faith of nations that are
facing the Strait of Magellan, who discovered a few years earlier by Nicholas VP Mascardi, Italian,
subject to the province of Chile and martyr of the Lord, asking preachers of our holy law, and
order of our pious monarch Charles II, were and point to some zealous missionaries to enter the
lands of the Patagonian, was also said Fr Arce. But to the best of the play went through hell by
some Ministers of the King, who pay more attention to their particular interests in the service
of God and the Monarchy, hold them with guns tried to make after his slaves.

Vanished, then, this unique mission with all the good pain, was destined to bring the light
of the Gospel to the Chiraguanás, and lead the way in other provinces to many his brothers,
who conducted in the same spirit and zeal had to follow, to plant in them the seed of the gospel
preaching, which, to make it more fertile, the had to water, not only with their sweat, but
also with their blood. 

From this shot to the mountains whose slopes Charaguay to live most of Chanes and many Chiriguaná.
They had little to do here is not in writing to the countrymen Taquiremboti's vassals, but
put them in agreement, they continued their journey, finding no else destroyed settlements, withdrawing
to other parts of people, not to suffer the woes and misfortunes that war brings.

Finally, suffered little or no danger of dying light, came to the river Guapay where were received
from its inhabitants with incredible finesse, and the Chiefs will Manguta and Fayo pleaded
vividly remain upon that place for instruction in the mysteries of our Santa Fe and teach the
way to heaven.

Fr Arce, who by then had other plans, promised to meet them another time their wishes, that administering
Holy Baptism to four who were in danger of death be prevented and
for the game.

At this time there came an Indian chief's sister Tambacurá, and fell at his feet very distressed
and grief for the governor of Santa Cruz de la Sierra sent his brother to turn to punish him,
and expressing his pain gave him so many reasons and taught such prayers and appeals the love
of blood, to deliver him from the blow, as I said, he had machined out of spite and envy your
enemies, which had to condescend to his Parents requests for hands touched and they saw these people
that they were not looking but to its usefulness and that the chances were his shield and shelter,
for fans this way to our holy law. This was his plan and intent, but not of God, which is often
worth of human interests to bring to an end the provisions of eternal providence. And such was the
way these missionaries to Santa Cruz de la Sierra, for going only to implore temporal life
of an Indian God that brought them out of all waiting for rescue to countless people from the
bondage of the devil. Therefore part of Guapay with Tambacurá to Santa Cruz, where he received
with great courtesy of Governor Don Agustín de Arce piísimo Knight, reached by mercy and grace
the lives of the poor man, who otherwise they have been through a
lot.

These demonstrations of esteem and affection for our parents forced you to trust him indicate their
plan to convert to the faith and to the Chiriguanos deign to bring his authority against anyone
who dared oppose the company. It seemed the wise governor it was unnecessary to spend time and
work with the Indians, so they began with solid reasons to persuade the other hand straighten
your thoughts and apostolic zeal, because they were stubborn people into idolatry, savage in manners,
and extremely adverse to the laws and purity of the Christian life, and unstable in the undertaking,
that and other occasions had tried to reduce fervorosísimos Missionaries,
and after great work and fatigue had not taken another fruit of their
sweat but taunts, insults and bad treatment. 

It's harder than it seems to show ingenuity, discretion, tact and, above all, art in trivialities
and pettiness that is the subject forced the beginning of the visits "in full" we all do, which makes
the whole world.