The constant increase of defective eyesight among the pupils in our schools is an alarming
fact. Dr. Agnew considers that our schoolrooms are fast making us a spectacle-using people.
Nearsightedness seems to increase from class to class, until in the upper departments, there
are sometimes as high as fifty per cent of the pupils thus afflicted. The causes are (1), desks
so placed as to make the light from the windows shine directly into the eyes of the scholars;
(2), cross lights from opposite windows; (3), insufficient light; (4), small type that strains
the eyes; and (5), the position of the pupil as he bends over his desk or slate, causing the
blood to settle in his eyes. All these causes can be remedied; the position of the desks can
be changed; windows can be shaded, or new ones inserted; books and newspapers that try the
eyes can be rejected; and every pupil can be taught how to sit at study.

PRACTICAL QUESTIONS.

1. Why does a laundress test the temperature of her flatiron by holding it near her cheek?

2. When we are cold, why do we spread the palms of our hands before the fire?

3. What is meant by a "furred tongue"?

4. Why has sand or sulphur no taste?

5. What was the origin of the word palatable?

6. Why does a cold in the head injure the flavor of our coffee?

7. Name some so-called flavors that are really sensations of touch.

8. What is the object of the hairs in the nostrils?

9. What use does the nose subserve in the process of respiration?

10. Why do we sometimes hold the nose when we take unpleasant medicine?

11. Why was the nose placed over the mouth?

12. Describe how the hand is adapted to be the instrument of touch.

13. Besides being the organ of taste, what use does the tongue subserve?

14. Why is not the act of tasting complete until we swallow?

15. Why do all things have the same flavor when one's tongue is "furred" by fever?

16. Which sense is the more useful--hearing or sight?

17. Which coat is the white of the eye?

18. What makes the difference in the color of eyes?

19. Why do we snuff the air when we wish to obtain a distinct smell?

20. Why do red-hot iron and frozen mercury (-40 degrees) produce the same sensation?

21. Why can an elderly person drink tea which to a child would be unbearably hot?

22. Why does an old man hold his paper so far from his eyes?

23. Would you rather be punished on the tips of your fingers than on the palm of your hand?

24. What is the object of the eyelashes? Are the hairs straight?

25. What is the use of winking?

26. When you wink, do the eyelids touch at once along their whole length? Why?

27. How many rows of hairs are there in the eyelashes?

28. Do all nations have eyes of the same shape?

29. Why does snuff taking cause a flow of tears?

30. Why does a fall cause one to "see stars"?

31. Why can we not see with the nose, or smell with the eyes?

32. What causes the roughness of a cat's tongue?

33. Is the cuticle essential to touch?

34. Can one tickle himself?

35. Why does a bitter taste often produce vomiting?

36. Is there any danger in looking "crosseyed" for fun?

37. Should schoolroom desks face a window?

38. Why do we look at a person to whom we are listening attentively?

39. Do we really feel with our fingers?

40. Is the eye a perfect sphere? (See Fig. 61.)

41. How often do we wink?

42. Why is the interior of a telescope or microscope often painted black?

43. What is "the apple of the eye"?

44. What form of glasses do old people require?

45. Should we ever wash our ears with cold water?

46. What is the object of the winding passages in the nose?

47. Can a smoker tell in the dark, whether or not his cigar is lighted?

48. Will a nerve reunite after it has been cut?

49. Will the sight give us an idea of solidity? [Footnote: A case occurred a few years ago,
in London, where a friend of my own performed an operation upon a young woman who had been
born blind, and, though an attempt had been made in early years to cure her, it had failed.
She was able just to distinguish large objects, the general shadow, as it were, without any
distinct perception of form, and to distinguish light from darkness. She could work well with
her needle by the touch, and could use her scissors and bodkin and other implements by the
training of her hand, so to speak, alone Well, my friend happened to see her, and he examined
her eyes, and told her that he thought he could get her sight restored; at any rate, it was
worth a trial. The operation succeeded; and, being a man of intelligence and quite aware of
the interest of such a case, he carefully studied and observed it; and he completely confirmed
all that had been previously laid down by the experience of similar cases. There was one little
incident which will give you an idea of the education which is required for what you would
suppose is a thing perfectly simple and obvious. She could not distinguish by sight the things
that she was perfectly familiar with by the touch, at least when they were first presented
to her eyes. She could not recognize even a pair of scissors. Now, you would have supposed
that a pair of scissors, of all things in the world, having been continually used by her, and
their form having become perfectly familiar to her hands, would have been most readily recognized
by her sight; and yet she did not know what they were; she had not an idea until she was told,
and then she laughed, as she said, at her own stupidity. No stupidity at all; she had never
learned it, and it was one of those things which she could not know without learning. One of
the earliest cases of this kind was related by the celebrated Cheselden, a surgeon of the early
part of last century. Cheselden relates how a youth just in this condition had been accustomed
to play with a cat and a dog; but for some time after he attained his sight he never could
tell which was which, and used to be continually making mistakes. One day, being rather ashamed
of himself for having called the cat the dog, he took up the cat in his arms and looked at
her very attentively for some time stroking her all the while; and in this way he associated
the impression derived from the touch, and made himself master (so to speak) of the whole idea
of the animal. He then put the cat down, saying: "Now, puss, I shall know you another time."--CARPENTER.]

50. Why can a skillful surgeon determinate the condition of the brain and other internal organs
by examining the interior of the eye? [Footnote: This is done by means of an instrument called
the ophthalmoscope. Light is thrown into the eye with a concave mirror, and the interior of
the organ examined with a lens.]

51. Is there any truth in the idea that the image of the murderer can be seen in the eye of
the dead victim?

52. What is the length of the optic nerve? Ans. About three fourths of an inch.

53. Why does an injury to one eye generally affect the other eye? Ans. The optic nerves give
off no branches in passing from their origin in two ganglia situated between the cerebrum and
the cerebellum, and their termination in the eyeballs; but, in the middle of their course,
they decussate, or unite in one mass. The fibers of the two nerves here pass from side to side,
and intermingle. The two ganglia are also united directly by fibers. Thus the eyes are not
really separate organs of sight, but a kind of double organ to perform, a single function.

IX.

HEALTH AND DISEASE.--DEATH AND DECAY.

"Health is the vital principle of bliss."

THOMSON.

O. W. HOLMES.

POPE.

HEALTH AND DISEASE.--DEATH AND DECAY.

VALUE OF HEALTH.--The body is the instrument which the mind uses. If it be dulled or nicked,
the effect of the best labor will be impaired. The grandest gifts of mind or fortune are comparatively
valueless unless there be a healthy body to use and enjoy them. The beggar, sturdy and brave
with his outdoor life, is really happier than the rich man in his palace with the gout to twinge
him amid his pleasures. The day has gone by when delicacy is considered an element of beauty.
Weakness is timid and irresolute; strength is full of force and energy. Weakness walks or creeps;
strength speeds the race, wins the goal, and rejoices in the victory.

FALSE IDEAS OF DISEASE.--It was formerly supposed that diseases were caused by evil spirits,
who entered the body, and deranged its action. Incantations, spells, etc., were resorted to
in order to drive them out. By others, disease was thought to come arbitrarily, or as a special
visitation of an overruling power. Hence, it was to be removed by fasting and prayer. Modern
science teaches us that disease is not a thing, but a state. When our food is properly assimilated,
the waste matter promptly excreted, and all the organs work in harmony, we are well; when any
derangement of these functions occurs, we are sick. Sickness is discord, as health is concord.
If we abuse or misuse any instrument, we impair its ability to produce a perfect harmony. A
suffering body is simply the penalty of violated law.

PREVENTION OF DISEASE.--Doubtless a large proportion of the ills which now afflict and rob
us of so much time and pleasure might easily be avoided. A proper knowledge and observance
of hygienic laws would greatly lessen the number of such diseases as consumption, catarrh,
gout, rheumatism, dyspepsia, etc. There are parts of England where one half the children die
before they are five years old. Every physiologist knows that at least nine tenths of these
lives could be saved by an observance of the simple laws of health. Professor Bennet, in a
lecture at Edinburgh, estimated that one hundred thousand persons die annually in Great Britain
from causes easily preventable.

With the advance of science, the causes of many diseases have been determined. Vaccination
has been found to prevent or mitigate the ravages of smallpox. Scurvy, formerly so fatal among
sailors that it was deemed "a mysterious infliction of Divine Justice against which man strives
in vain," is now entirely avoided by the use of vegetables or lime juice. Cholera, whose approach
still strikes dread, and for which there is no known specific, is but the penalty for filthy
streets, bad drainage, and overcrowded tenements, and may be controlled, if not prevented,
by suitable sanitary measures. It was, no doubt, the intention that we should wear out by the
general decay of all the organs, [Footnote: So long as the phenomena of waste and repair are
in harmony--so long, in other words, as the builder follows the scavenger--so long man exists
in integrity and repair--just, indeed, as houses exist. Derange nutrition, and at once degeneration,
or rather let us say, alteration begins. Alas! that we are so ignorant that there are many
things about our house, which, seeing them, weaken, we know not how to strengthen. About the
brick and the mortar, the frame and the rafters, we are not unlearned; but within are many
complexities, many chinks and crannies, full in themselves of secondary chinks and crannies,
and these so small, so deep, so recessed, that it happens every day that the destroyer settles
himself in some place so obscure, that, while he kills, he laughs at defiance. You or I meet
with an accident in our watch. We consult the watchmaker, and he repairs the injury. If we
were all that watchmakers, like ourselves, should be, a man could be made to keep time until
he died from old age or annihilating accident. This I firmly and fully believe.--Odd Hours
of a Physician.] rather than by the giving out of any single part, and that all should work
together harmoniously until the vital force is exhausted.

CURE OF DISEASE.--The first step in the cure of any disease is to obey the law of health which
has been violated. If medicine be taken, it is not to destroy the disease, since that is not
a thing to be destroyed, but to hold the deranged action in check while nature repairs the
injury, and again brings the system into harmonious movement. This tendency of nature is our
chief reliance. The best physicians are coming to have diminished confidence in medicine itself,
and to place greater dependence upon sanitary and hygienic measures, and upon the efforts which
nature always makes to repair injuries and soothe disordered action. They endeavor only to
give to nature a fair chance, and sometimes to assist her by the intelligent employment of
proper medicines. The indiscriminate use of patent nostrums and sovereign remedies of whose
constituents we know nothing, and by which powerful drugs are imbibed at haphazard, can not
be too greatly deprecated. When one needs medicine, he needs also a competent physician to
advise its use.

DEATH AND DECAY.--By a mystery we can not understand, life is linked with death, and out of
the decay of our bodies they, day by day, spring afresh. At last the vital force which has
held death and decay in bondage, and compelled them to minister to our growth, and to serve
the needs of our life, faints and yields the struggle. These powers which have so long time
been our servants, gather about our dying couch, and their last offices usher us into the new
life and the grander possibilities of the world to come. This last birth, we who see the fading,
not the dawning, life, call death.

HOLMES.

HINTS ABOUT THE SICK ROOM

A SICK ROOM should be the lightest and cheeriest in the house. A small, close, dark bedroom
or a recess is bad enough for one in health, but unendurable for a sick person. In a case of
fever, and in many acute diseases, it should be remote from the noise of the family; but when
one is recovering from an accident, and in all attacks where quiet is not needed, the patient
may be where he can amuse himself by watching the movements of the household, or looking out
upon the street.

The ventilation must be thorough. Bad air will poison both the sick and the well. A fireplace
is, therefore, desirable. Windows should open easily. By carefully protecting the patient with
extra blankets, the room may be frequently aired. If there be no direct draught, much may be
done to change the air, by simply swinging an outer door to and fro many times.

A bare floor, with strips of carpet here and there to deaden noise, is cleanest, and keeps
the air freest from dust. Cane-bottomed chairs are preferable to upholstered ones. All unnecessary
furniture should be removed out of the way. A straw bed or a mattress is better than feathers.
The bed hangings, lace curtains, etc., should be taken down. Creaking hinges should be oiled.
Sperm candles are better than kerosene lamps.

Never whisper in a sick room. All necessary conversation should be carried on in the usual
tone of voice. Do not call a physician unnecessarily, but if one be employed, obey his directions
implicitly. Never give nostrums overofficious friends may suggest. Do not allow visitors to
see the patient, except it be necessary. Never bustle about the room, nor go on tiptoe, but
move in a quiet, ordinary way. Do not keep the bottles in the continued sight of the sick person.
Never let drinking water stand in the room.

Do not raise the patient's head to drink, but have a cup with a long spout, or use a bent tube,
or even a straw. Do not tempt the appetite when it craves no food. Bathe frequently, but let
the physician prescribe the method. Give written directions to the watchers. Have all medicines
carefully marked. Remove all soiled clothing, etc., at once from the room. Change the linen
much oftener than in health. When you wish to change the sheets, and the patient is unable
to rise, roll the under sheet tightly lengthwise to the middle of the bed; put on the clean
sheet, with half its width folded up, closely to the other roll; lift the patient on to the
newly-made part, remove the soiled sheet, and then spread oat the clean one.

DISINFECTANTS.

Remember, first, that deodorizers and disinfectants are not the same. A bad smell, for instance,
may be smothered by some more powerful odor, while its cause remains uninfluenced. Bear also
in mind the fact that no deodorizer and no disinfectant can take the place of perfect cleanliness
and thorough ventilation. No purifyer can rival the oxygen contained in strong and continued
currents of fresh, cold air, and every disinfectant finds an indispensable ally in floods of
scalding water.

An excellent disinfectant may be made by dissolving in a pail of water either of the following:
(1), a quarter of a pound of sulphate of zinc and two ounces of common salt for each gallon
of water; (2), a pound and a half of copperas, for each gallon of water. Towels, bed linen,
handkerchiefs, etc., should be soaked at least an hour, in a solution of the first kind, and
then be boiled, before washing. [Footnote: It is best to burn all articles which have been
in contact with persons sick with contagious or infectious diseases.

In using the zinc solution, place the articles in it as soon as they are removed from the patient,
and before they are taken from the room; if practicable, have the solution boiling hot at the
time. In fumigating apartments, all the openings should be made as nearly air-tight as possible.
The articles to be included in the fumigation should be so exposed and spread out that the
sulphurous vapor may penetrate every portion of them. For a room about ten feet square, at
least two pounds of sulphur should be used; for larger rooms, proportionally increased quantities.
Put the sulphur in iron pans supported upon bricks placed in washtubs containing a little water,
set it on fire by hot coals or with the aid of a spoonful of alcohol, or by a long fuse set
on train as the last opening to the room is closed. Allow the apartment to remain sealed for
twenty-four hours. Great care should be taken not to inhale the poisonous fumes in firing the
sulphur. After the fumigation, allow free currents of air to pass through the apartment; expose
all movable articles for as long time as may be to the sun and the wind out of doors; beat
and shake the carpets, hangings, pillows, etc.

The disinfectants and the instructions for using them, as given above, are mainly those recommended
by the National Board of Health.] Vaults, drains, vessels used in the sick room, etc., should
be disinfected by a solution of the second kind; chloride of lime may also be used for the
same purpose. Rooms, furniture, and articles that can not be treated with the solution of the
first kind, should be thoroughly fumigated with burning sulphur. Where walls are unpapered,
re-whitewash with pure, freshly slacked quicklime, adding one pint of the best fluid carbolic
acid to every gallon of the fluid whitewash. Powdered stone lime sprinkled on foul, wet places,
or placed in pans in damp rooms, will absorb the moisture; and dry, fresh charcoal powder may
be combined with it to absorb noxious gases.

WHAT TO DO TILL THE DOCTOR COMES.

The following instructions are intended simply to aid in an emergency. When accidents or a
sudden severe illness occur, there is necessarily, in most cases, a longer or shorter interval
before a physician can arrive. These moments are often very precious, and life may depend upon
a little knowledge and much self-possession. The instructions are therefore given as briefly
as possible, that they may be easily carried in the memory. A few suggestions in regard to
common ailments are included.

BURNS.--When a person's clothes catch fire, quickly lay him on the ground, wrap him in a coat,
mat, shawl, carpet, or in his own garments, as best you can to extinguish the flame. Pour on
plenty of water till the half- burned clothing is cooled. Then carry the sufferer to a warm
room, lay him on a table or a carpeted floor, and with a sharp knife or scissors remove his
clothing.

The treatment of a burn consists in protecting from the air. [Footnote: It is a great mistake
to suppose that salves will "draw out the fire" of a burn, or heal a bruise or cut. The vital
force must unite the divided tissue by the deposit of material and the formation of new cells.]
An excellent remedy is to apply soft cloths kept wet with sweet oil, or with tepid water which
contains all the "cooking soda" that it will dissolve. Afterward dress the wound with carbolic
acid salve. Wrap a dry bandage upon the outside. Then remove the patient to a bed and cover
warmly. [Footnote: In case of a large burn, lose no delay in bringing a physician. If a burn
be near a joint or on the face, even if small, let a doctor see it, and do not be in any hurry
about having it healed. Remember that with all the care and skill which can be used, contractions
will sometimes take place. The danger to life from a burn or scald is not in proportion to
its severity, but to its extent--that is, a small part, such as a hand or a foot, may be burned
so deeply as to cripple it for life, and yet not much endanger the general health; but a slight
amount of burning, a mere scorching, over two thirds of the body, may prove fatal.-- HOPE.]
Apply cool water to a small burn till the smart ceases, and then cover with ointment. Do not
remove the dressings until they become stiff and irritating; then take them from a part at
a time; dress and cover again quickly.

CUTS, WOUNDS, ETC.--The method of stopping the bleeding has been described on page 128. If
an artery is severed, a physician should be called at once. If the bleeding is not profuse,
apply cold water until it ceases, dry the skin, draw the edges of the wound together, and secure
them by strips of adhesive plaster. Protect with an outer bandage. This dressing should remain
for several days. In the meantime wet it frequently with cool water to subdue inflammation.
When suppuration begins, wash occasionally with tepid water and Castile soap.

Dr. Woodbridge, of New York, in a recent address, gave the following directions as to "What
to do in case of a sudden wound when the surgeon is not at hand." "An experienced person would
naturally close the lips of the wound as quickly as possible, and apply a bandage. If the wound
is bleeding freely, but no artery is spouting blood, the first thing to be done is to wash
it with water at an ordinary temperature. To every pint of water add either five grains of
corrosive sublimate, or two and a half teaspoonfuls of carbolic acid. If the acid is used,
add two tablespoonfuls of glycerine, to prevent its irritating the wound. If there is neither
of these articles in the house, add four tablespoonfuls of borax to the water. Wash the wound,
close it, and apply a compress of a folded square of cotton or linen. Wet it in the solution
used for washing the wound and bandage quickly and firmly. If the bleeding is profuse, a sponge
dipped in very hot water and wrung out in a dry cloth should be applied as quickly as possible.
If this is not available, use ice, or cloths wrung out in ice water. If a large vein or artery
is spouting, it must be stopped at once by compression. This may be done by a rubber tube wound
around the arm tightly above the elbow or above the knee, where the pulse is felt to beat;
or an improvised 'tourniquet' may be used. A hard apple or a stone is placed in a folded handkerchief,
and rolled firmly in place. This bandage is applied so that the hard object rests on the point
where the artery beats, and is then tied loosely around the arm. A stick is thrust through
the loose bandage and turned till the flow of blood ceases."

BLEEDING FROM THE NOSE is rarely dangerous, and often beneficial. When it becomes necessary
to stop it, sit upright and compress the nostrils between the thumb and forefinger, or with
the thumb press upward upon the upper lip. A piece of ice, a snowball, or a compress wet with
cold water may be applied to the back of the neck.

A SPRAIN [Footnote: "A sprain," says Dr. Hope, in that admirable little book entitled Till
the Doctor comes and How to help Him, "is a very painful and very serious thing. When you consider
that from the tips of the fingers to the wrist, or from the ends of the toes to the leg, there
are not less than thirty separate bones, all tied together with straps, cords, and elastic
bands, and about twenty hinges, all to be kept in good working order, you will not wonder at
sprains being frequent and sometimes serious."] is often more painful and dangerous than a
dislocation. Wrap the injured part in flannels wrung out of hot water, and cover with a dry
bandage, or, better, with oiled silk. Liniments and stimulating applications are injurious
in the first stages, but useful when the inflammation is subdued. Do not let the limb hang
down, keep the joint still. Without attention to these points, no remedies are likely to be
of much service. A sprained limb must be kept quiet, even after all pain has ceased. If used
too soon, dangerous consequences may ensue. Many instances have been known in which, from premature
use of an injured limb, the inflammation has been renewed and made chronic, the bones at the
joint have become permanently diseased, and amputation has been necessitated.

DIARRHEA, CHOLERA MORBUS, ETC., are often caused by eating indigestible or tainted food, such
as unripe or decaying fruit, or stale vegetables; or by drinking impure water or poisoned milk
(see p. 321). Sometimes the disturbance may be traced to a checking of the perspiration; but
more frequently to peculiar conditions of the atmosphere, especially in large cities. Such
diseases are most prevalent in humid weather, when the days are hot and the nights cold and
moist. Especial attention should at such times be paid to the diet. If an attack comes on,
ascertain, if possible, its cause. You can thereby aid your physician, and, if the cause be
removable, can protect the rest of the household. If the limbs are cold, take a hot bath, followed
by a thorough rubbing. Then go to bed and lie quietly on the back. In ordinary cases, rest
is better than medicine. If there be pain, have flannels wrung out of hot water applied to
the abdomen. [Footnote: If it be difficult to manage the foments, lay a hot plate over the
flannels and cover with some protection. By having a change of hot plates, the foments can
be kept at a uniform high temperature. This plan will be found useful in all cases where foments
are needed.] A mustard poultice will serve the same purpose if more convenient. Eat no fruit,
vegetables, pastry, or pork. Use water sparingly. If much thirst exist, give small pieces of
ice, or limited quantities of cold tea or toast water. Take particular pains with the diet
for some days after the bowel irritation has ceased.

CROUP.--There are two kinds of croup--true and false. True croup comes on gradually, and is
less likely to excite alarm than false croup, which comes on suddenly. True croup is attended
with fever and false membrane in the throat; false croup is not attended with fever or false
membrane. True croup is almost always fatal in four or five days; false croup recovers, but
is liable to come on again. The great majority of cases of the so- called croup are simply
cases of spasm of the glottis. "Croupy children" are those who are liable to these attacks
of false croup, which are most frequent during the period of teething.--DR. GEO. M. BEARD.
Croup occurs commonly in children between the ages of two and seven years. At this period,
if a child has a hollow cough, with more or less fever, flushed face, red watery eyes, and
especially if it have a hoarse voice, and show signs of uneasiness about the throat, send at
once for a doctor. Induce mild vomiting by doses of syrup of ipecac. Put the feet in a hot
mustard-and-water bath. Apply hot fomentations, rapidly renewed, to the chest and throat. A
"croupy" child should be carefully shielded from all physical excitation, sudden waking from
sleep, and any punishment that tends to awaken intense fear or terror. Irritation of the air
passages through faulty swallowing in drinking hastily, should be guarded against. Good pure
air, warm clothing, and a nourishing diet are indispensable.

COMMON SORE THROAT.--Wrap the neck in a wet bandage, and cover with flannel or a clean woolen
stocking. Gargle the throat frequently with a solution of a teaspoonful of salt in a pint of
water, or thirty grains of chlorate of potash in a wineglass of water.

FITS, APOPLEXY, EPILEPSY, ETC.--These call for immediate action and prompt medical attendance.
Children who are teething, or troubled with intestinal worms, or from various causes, are sometimes
suddenly seized with convulsions. Apply cloths wet in cold water--or, better still, ice wrapped
in oiled silk--to the head, and especially to the back of the neck, taking care, however, that
the ice or wet cloths do not remain too long. Apply mustard plasters to the stomach and legs.
A full hot bath is excellent if the cold applications fail. Endeavor to induce vomiting. Seek
to determine the cause, and consult with your physician for further guidance.

Apoplexy may be distinguished from a fainting fit by the red face, hot skin, and labored breathing;
whereas, in a faint, the face and lips lose color, and the skin becomes cold. In many cases,
death follows so quickly upon an apoplectic seizure, that little effectual service can be given.
Call the nearest physician, loosen the clothing, and raise the head and shoulders, taking care
not to bend the head forward on the neck. Keep the head cool. Do not move the patient unnecessarily.

In a common fainting fit, give the patient as much air as possible. Lay him flat upon the floor
or ground, and keep the crowd away.

All that can be done in a fit of epilepsy is to prevent the patient from injuring himself;
especially put something in his mouth to keep him from biting his tongue. A cork, a piece of
India rubber, or even a tightly- rolled handkerchief, placed between the teeth will answer
this purpose. Give the sufferer fresh air; loosen his clothing, and place him in a comfortable
position. Epilepsy may be due to various causes,--improper diet, overexcitement, etc. Consult
with a physician, and study to avoid the occasion.

CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN generally arises from some contusion of the head, from violent blows,
or from a shock received by the whole body in consequence of falling from a height. In any
case of injury to the head where insensibility ensues, a doctor should be called at once. Remove
the patient to a quiet room; loosen his clothing; strive to restore circulation by gentle friction,
using the hand or a cloth for this purpose; apply cold water to the head, and, if the patient's
body be cold and his skin clammy, put hot bottles at his feet. Ammonia may be cautiously held
to the nose. Beyond this, it is not safe for a non- professional to go, in case of a severe
injury to the head. Concussion is more or less serious, according to the injury which the brain
has sustained; but even in slight cases, when a temporary dizziness appears to be the only
result, careful treatment should be observed both at the time of the injury and afterward.
Cases of head injury are often more grave in their consequences than in their immediate symptoms.
Sometimes the patient appears to be getting better when really he is worse. Rest and quiet
should be observed for several weeks after an accident which has in any way affected the brain.

TOOTHACHE AND EARACHE.--Insert in the hollow tooth cotton wet with laudanum, spirits of camphor,
or chloroform. When the nerve is exposed, wet it with creosote or carbolic acid. Hot cloths
or a hot brick wrapped in cloth and held to the face will often relieve the toothache. In a
similar manner treat the ear, wetting the cloth in hot water, and letting the vapor pass into
the ear.

CHOKING.--Ordinarily a smart blow between the shoulders, causing a compression of the chest
and a sudden expulsion of the air from the lungs, will throw out the offending substance. If
the person can swallow, and the object be small, give plenty of bread or potato, and water
to wash it down. Press upon the tongue with a spoon, when, perhaps, you may see the object,
and draw it out with your thumb and finger, or a blunt pair of scissors. If neither of these
remedies avail, give an emetic of syrup of ipecac or mustard and warm water.

FROSTBITES are frequently so sudden that one is not aware when they occur. In Canada it is
not uncommon for persons meeting in the street to say, "Mind, sir, your nose looks whitish."
The blood cools and runs slowly, and the blood vessels become choked and swollen. Keep from
the heat. Rub the part quickly with snow, if necessary for hours, till the natural color is
restored. If one is benumbed with cold, take him into a cold room, remove the wet clothes,
rub the body dry, cover with blankets, and give a little warm tea or other suitable drink.
On recovering, let him be brought to a fire gradually. [Footnote: If you are caught in a snowstorm,
look for a snow bank in the lee of a hill, or a wood out of the wind, or a hollow in the plain
filled with snow. Scrape out a hole big enough to creep into, and the drifting snow will keep
you warm. Men and animals have been preserved after days of such imprisonment. Remember that
if you give way to sleep in the open field, you will never awake.]

FEVERS, and many acute diseases, are often preceded by a loss of appetite, headache, shivering,
"pains in the bones," indisposition to work, etc. In such cases, sponge with tepid water, and
rub the body till all aglow. Go to bed, place hot bricks to the feet, take nothing but a little
gruel or beef tea, and drink moderately of warm, cream-of-tartar water. If you do not feel
better the next morning, call a physician. If that be impossible, take a dose of castor oil
or Epsom salts.

SUNSTROKE is a sudden prostration caused by intense heat. The same effect is produced by the
burning rays of the sun and the fierce fire of a furnace. When a person falls under such circumstance,
place your hand on his chest. If the skin be cool and moist, it is not a sunstroke; but if
it be dry and "biting hot," there can be no mistake. Time is now precious. At once carry the
sufferer to the nearest pump or hydrant, and dash cold water on the head and chest until consciousness
is restored.--DR. H. C. WOOD.

To prevent sunstroke, wear a porous hat, and in the top of it place a wet handkerchief; also
drink freely of water, not ice cold, to induce abundant perspiration.

ASPHYXIA, or apparent death, whether produced by drowning, suffocation, bad air, or coal gas,
requires very similar treatment. Send immediately for blankets, dry clothing, and a physician.
Treat upon the spot, if the weather be not too unfavorable.

1. Loosen the clothing about the neck and chest, separate the jaws, and place between them
a cork or bit of wood.

2. Turn the patient on his face, place his arm under his forehead to raise the head, and press
heavily with both hands upon the ribs to squeeze out the water.

3. Place the patient on his back, wipe out the mouth and nostrils, and secure the tongue from
falling backward over the throat. Kneel at his head, grasp his arms firmly above the elbows,
and pull them gently upward until they meet over the head, in order to draw air into the lungs;
reverse this movement to expel the air. Repeat the process about fifteen times per minute.
Alternate pressure upon the chest, and blowing air into the mouth through a quill or with a
pair of bellows, may aid your efforts. Use snuff or smelling salts, or pass hartshorn under
the nose. Do not lose hope quickly. Life has been restored after five hours of suspended animation.
[Footnote: Another simple method of artificial respiration is described in the British Medical
Journal. The body of the patient is laid on the back, with clothes loosened, and the mouth
and nose wiped; two bystanders pass their right hands under the body at the level of the waist,
and grasp each other's hand, then raise the body until the tips of the fingers and the toes
of the subject alone touch the ground; count fifteen rapidly; then lower the body flat to the
ground, and press the elbows to the side hard; count fifteen again; then raise the body again
for the same length of time; and so on, alternately raising and lowering. The head, arms, and
legs are to be allowed to dangle down freely when the body is raised.]

4. When respiration is established, wrap the patient in dry, warm clothes, and rub the limbs
under the blankets or over the dry clothing energetically toward the heart. Apply heated flannels,
bottles of hot water, etc., to the limbs, and mustard plasters [Footnote: The best mustard
poultice is the paper plaster now sold by every druggist. It is always ready, and can be carried
by a traveler. It has only to be dipped in water, and applied at once.] to the chest.

FOREIGN BODIES IN THE EAR.--Insects may be killed by dropping a little sweet oil into the ear.
Beans peas, etc., may generally be removed by so holding the head that the affected ear will
be toward the ground, and then cautiously syringing tepid water into it from below. Do not
use much force lest the tympanum be injured. If this fail, dry the ear, stick the end of a
little linen swab into thick glue, let the patient lie on one side, put this into the ear until
it touches the substance, keep it there three quarters of an hour while it hardens, and then
draw them all out together. Be careful that the glue does not touch the skin at any point,
and that you are at work upon the right ear. Children often deceive one as to the ear which
is affected.

FOREIGN BODIES IN THE NOSE, such as beans, cherry pits, etc., may frequently be removed by
closing the opposite nostril, and then blowing into the child's mouth forcibly. The air, unable
to escape except through the affected nostril, will sweep the obstruction before it.

ANTIDOTES TO POISONS.

ACIDS: Nitric (aqua fortis), hydrochloric (muriatic), sulphuric (oil of vitriol), oxalic, etc.--Drink
a little water to weaken the acid, or, still better, take strong soapsuds. Stir some magnesia
in water, and drink freely. If the magnesia be not at hand, use chalk, soda, lime, whiting,
soap, or even knock a piece of plaster from the wall, and scraping off the white outside coat
pound it fine, mix with milk or water, and drink at once. Follow with warm water, or flaxseed tea.

ALKALIES: Potash, soda, lye, ammonia (hartshorn).--Drink weak vinegar or lemon juice. Follow
with castor or linseed oil, or thick cream.

ANTIMONY: Antimonial wine, tartar emetic, etc.--Drink strong, green tea, and in the meantime
chew the dry leaves. The direct antidote is a solution of nutgall or oak bark.

