Here, then, we have another source of error that we must take into account in judging of the
authenticity of an autobiographical narration of the events of childhood. The more imaginative
the writer, the greater the risk of illusion from this source as well as from that of dream-fancies.
It is highly probable, indeed, that in such full and explicit records of very early life as
those given by Rousseau, by Goethe, or by De Quincey, some part of the quasi-narrative is based
on mental images which come floating down the stream of time, not from the substantial world
of the writer's personal experience, but from the airy region of dream-land or of waking fancy.

It is to be added that even when the quasi-recollection does answer to a real event of childish
history, it may still be an illusion. The fact that others, in narrating events to us, are
able to awaken imaginations that afterwards appear as past realities, suggests that much of
our supposed early recollection owes its existence to what our parents and friends have from
time to time told us respecting the first stages of our history.[131] We see, then, how much
uncertainty attaches to all autobiographical description of very early life.

Modern science suggests another possible source of these distinct spectra of memory. May it
not happen that, by the law of hereditary transmission, which is now being applied to mental
as well as bodily phenomena, ancestral experiences will now and then reflect themselves in
our mental life, and so give rise to apparently personal recollections? No one can say that
this is not so. When the infant first steadies his eyes on a human face, it may, for aught
we know, experience a feeling akin to that described above, when through a survival of dream-fancy
we take some new scene to be already familiar. At the age when new emotions rapidly develop
themselves, when our hearts are full of wild romantic aspirations, do there not seem to blend
with the eager passion of the time deep resonances of a vast and mysterious past, and may not
this feeling be a sort of reminiscence of prenatal, that is, ancestral experience?

This idea is certainly a fascinating one, worthy to be a new scientific support for the beautiful
thought of Plato and of Wordsworth. But in our present state of knowledge, any reasoning on
this supposition would probably appear too fanciful. Some day we may find out how much ancestral
experience is capable of bequeathing in this way, whether simply shadowy, undefinable mental
tendencies, or something like definite concrete ideas. If, for example, it were found that
a child that was descended from a line of seafaring ancestors, and that had never itself seen
or heard of the "dark-gleaming sea," manifested a feeling of recognition when first beholding
it, we might be pretty sure that such a thing as recollection of prenatal events does take
place. But till we have such facts, it seems better to refer the "shadowy recollections" to
sources which fall within the individual's own experience.

We may now pass to those hallucinations of memory which are analogous to the centrally excited
hallucinations of sense-perception. As I have observed, these are necessarily vague and imperfectly
developed.

I have already had occasion to touch on the fact of the vast amount of our forgotten experience.
And I observed that forgetfulness was a common negative condition of mnemonic illusion. I have
now to complete this statement by the observation that total forgetfulness of any period or
stage of our past experience necessarily tends to a vague kind of hallucination. In looking
back on the past, we see no absolute gaps in the continuity of our conscious life; our image
of this past is essentially one of an unbroken series of conscious experiences. But if through
forgetfulness a part of the series is effaced from memory, how, it may be asked, is it possible
to construct this perfectly continuous line? The answer is that we fill up such lacunæ vaguely
by help of some very imperfectly imagined common type of conscious experience. Just as the
eye sees no gap in its field of vision corresponding to the "blind spot" of the retina, but
carries its impression over this area, so memory sees no lacuna in the past, but carries its
image of conscious life over each of the forgotten spaces.

Sometimes this process of filling in gaps in the past becomes more complete. Thus, for example,
in recalling a particular night a week or so ago, I instinctively represent it to myself as
so many hours of lying in bed with the waking sensations appropriate to the circumstances,
as those of bodily warmth and rest, and of the surrounding silence and darkness.

It is apparent that I cannot conceive myself apart from some mode of conscious experience.
In thinking of myself in any part of the past or future in which there is actually no consciousness,
or of which the conscious content is quite unknown to me, I necessarily imagine myself as consciously
experiencing something. If I picture myself under any definitely conceived circumstances, I
irresistibly import into my mental image the feelings appropriate to these surroundings. In
this way, people tend to imagine themselves after death as lying in the grave, feeling its
darkness and its chilliness. If the circumstances of the time are not distinctly represented,
the conception of the conscious experience which constitutes that piece of the ego is necessarily
vague, and seems generally to resolve itself into a representation of ourselves as dimly self-conscious.
What this consciousness of self consists of is a point that will be taken up presently.

Illusions with respect to Personal Identity.

It would seem to follow from these errors in imaginatively filling up our past life, that our
consciousness of personal identity is by no means the simple and exact process which it is
commonly supposed to be. I have already remarked that the very fact of there being so large
a region of the irrevocable in our past experience proves our consciousness of personal continuity
to be largely a matter of inference, or of imaginative conjecture, and not simply of immediate
recollection. Indeed, it may be said that our power of ignoring whole regions of the past and
of leaping complacently over huge gaps in our memory and linking on conscious experience with
conscious experience, involves an illusory sense of continuity, and so far of personal identity.
Thus, our ordinary image of our past life, if only by omitting the very large fraction passed
in sleep, in at least an approximately unconscious state, clearly contains an ingredient of
illusion.[132]

It is to be added that the numerous falsifications of our past history, which our retrospective
imagination is capable of perpetrating, make our representation of ourselves at different moments
and in different stages of our past history to a considerable extent illusory. Thus, though
to mistake a past dream-experience for a waking one may not be to lose or confuse the sense
of identity, since our dreams are, after all, a part of our experience, yet to imagine that
we have ourselves seen what we have only heard from another or read is clearly to confuse the
boundaries of our identity. And with respect to longer sections of our history, it is plain
that when we wrongly assimilate our remote to our present self, and clothe our childish nature
with the feelings and the ideas of our adult life, we identify ourselves overmuch. In this
way, through the corruption of our memory, a kind of sham self gets mixed up with the real
self, so that we cannot, strictly speaking, be sure that when we project a mnemonic image into
the remote past we are not really running away from our true personality.

So far I have been touching only on slight errors in the recognition of that identical self
which is represented as persisting through all the fluctuations of conscious life. Other and
grosser illusions connected with personal identity are also found to be closely related to
defects or disturbances of the ordinary mnemonic process, and so can be best treated here.
In order to understand these, we must inquire a little into the nature of our idea and consciousness
of a persistent self. Here, again, I would remind the reader that I am treating the point only
so far as it can be treated scientifically or empirically, that is to say, by examining what
concrete facts or data of experience are taken up into the idea of self. I do not wish to foreclose
the philosophic question whether anything more than this empirical content is involved in the
conception.

My idea of myself as persisting appears to be built up of certain similarities in the succession
of my experiences. Thus, my permanent self consists, on the bodily side, of a continually renewable
perception of my own organism, which perception is mainly visual and tactual, and which remains
pretty constant within certain limits of time. With this objective similarity is closely conjoined
a subjective similarity. Thus, the same sensibilities continue to characterize the various
parts of my organism. Similarly, there are the higher intellectual, emotional, and moral peculiarities
and dispositions. My idea of my persistent self is essentially a collective image representing
a relatively unchanging material object, endowed with unchanging sensibilities and forming
a kind of support for permanent higher mental attributes.

The construction of this idea of an enduring unchanging ego is rendered very much easier by
the fact that certain concrete feelings are approximately constant elements in our mental life.
Among these must be ranked first that dimly discriminated mass of organic sensation which in
average states of health is fairly constant, and which stands in sharp contrast to the fluctuating
external sensations. These feelings enter into and profoundly colour each person's mental image
of himself. In addition to this, there are the frequently recurring higher feelings, the dominant
passions and ideas which approximate more or less closely to constant factors of our conscious
experience.

This total image of the ego becomes defined and rendered precise by a number of distinctions,
as that between my own body or that particular material object with which are intimately united
all my feelings, and other material objects in general; then between my organism and other
human organisms, with which I learn to connect certain feelings answering to my own, but only
faintly represented instead of actually realized feelings. To these prime distinctions are
added others, hardly less fundamental, as those between my individual bodily appearance and
that of other living bodies, between my personal and characteristic modes of feeling and thinking
and those of others, and so on.

Our sense of personal identity may be said to be rooted in that special side of the mnemonic
process which consists in the linking of all sequent events together by means of a thread of
common consciousness. It is closely connected with that smooth, gliding movement of imagination
which appears to involve some more or less distinct consciousness of the uniting thread of
similarity. And so long as this movement is possible, so long, that is to say, as retrospective
imagination detects the common element, which we may specifically call the recurring consciousness
of self, so long is there the undisturbed assurance of personal identity. Nay, more, even when
such a recognition might seem to be difficult, if not impossible, as in linking together the
very unlike selves, viewed both on their objective and subjective sides, of childhood, youth,
and mature life, the mind manages, as we have seen, to feign to itself a sufficient amount
of such similarity.

But this process of linking stage to stage, of discerning the common or the recurring amid
the changing and the evanescent, has its limits. Every great and sudden change in our experience
tends, momentarily at least, to hinder the smooth reflux of imagination. It makes too sharp
a break in our conscious life, so that imagination is incapable of spanning the gap and realizing
the then and the now as parts of a connected continuous tissue.[133]

These changes may be either objective or subjective. Any sudden alteration of our bodily appearance
sensibly impedes the movement of imagination. A patient after a fever, when he first looks
in the glass, exclaims, "I don't know myself." More commonly the bodily changes which affect
the consciousness of an enduring self are such as involve considerable alterations of coenæsthesis,
or the mass of stable organic sensation. Thus, the loss of a limb, by cutting off a portion
of the old sensations through which the organism may be said to be immediately felt, and by
introducing new and unfamiliar feelings, will distinctly give a shock to our consciousness of self.

Purely subjective changes, too, or, to speak correctly, such as are known subjectively only,
will suffice to disturb the sense of personal unity. Any great moral shock, involving something
like a revolution in our recurring emotional experience, seems at the moment to rupture the
bond of identity. And even some time after, as I have already remarked, such cataclysms in
our mental geology lead to the imaginative thrusting of the old personality away from the new
one under the form of a "dead self."[134]

We see, then, that the failure of our ordinary assurance of personal identity is due to the
recognition of difference without similarity. It arises from an act of memory--for the mind
must still be able to recall the past, dimly at least--but from a memory which misses its habitual
support in a recognized element of constancy. If there is no memory, that is to say, if the
past is a complete blank, the mind simply feels a rupture of identity without any transformation
of self. This is our condition on awaking from a perfectly forgotten period of sleep, or from
a perfectly unconscious state (if such is possible) when induced by anæsthetics. Such gaps
are, as we have seen, easily filled up, and the sense of identity restored by a kind of retrospective
"skipping." On the other hand, the confusion which arises from too great and violent a transformation
of our remembered experiences is much less easily corrected. As long as the recollection of
the old feelings remains, and with this the sense of violent contrast between the old and the
new ones, so long will the illusion of two sundered selves tend to recur.

The full development of this process of imaginative fission or cleavage of self is to be met
with in mental disease. The beginnings of such disease, accompanied as they commonly are with
disturbances of bodily sensations and the recurring emotions, illustrate in a very interesting
way the dependence of the recognition of self on a certain degree of uniformity in the contents
of consciousness. The patient, when first aware of these changes, is perplexed, and often regards
the new feelings as making up another self, a foreign Tu, as distinguished from the familiar
Ego. And sometimes he expresses the relation between the old and the new self in fantastic
ways, as when he imagines the former to be under the power of some foreign personality.

When the change is complete, the patient is apt to think of his former self as detached from
his present, and of his previous life as a kind of unreal dream; and this fading away of the
past into shadowy unreal forms has, as its result, a curious aberration in the sense of time.
Thus, it is said that a patient, after being in an asylum only one day, will declare that he
has been there a year, five years, and even ten years.[135] This confusion as to self naturally
becomes the starting-point of illusions of perception; the transformation of self seeming to
require as its logical correlative (for there is a crude logic even in mental disease) a transformation
of the environment. When the disease is fully developed under the particular form of monomania,
the recollection of the former normal self commonly disappears altogether, or fades away into
a dim image of some perfectly separate personality. A new ego is now fully substituted for
the old. In other and more violent forms of disease (dementia) the power of connecting the
past and present may disappear altogether, and nothing but the disjecta membra of an ego remain.

       *       *       *       *       *

Enough has, perhaps, been said to show how much of uncertainty and of self-deception enters
into the processes of memory. This much-esteemed faculty, valuable and indispensable though
it certainly is, can clearly lay no claim to that absolute infallibility which is sometimes
said to belong to it. Our individual recollection, left to itself, is liable to a number of
illusions even with regard to fairly recent events, and in the case of remote ones it may be
said to err habitually and uniformly in a greater or less degree. To speak plainly, we can
never be certain on the ground of our personal recollection alone that a distant event happened
exactly in the way and at the time that we suppose. Nor does there seem to be any simple way
by mere reflection on the contents of our memory of distinguishing what kinds of recollection
are likely to be illusory.

How, then, it may be asked, can we ever be certain that we are faithfully recalling the actual
events of the past? Given a fairly good, that is, a cultivated memory, it may be said that
in the case of very recent events a man may feel certain that, when the conditions of careful
attention at the time to what really happened were present, a distinct recollection is substantially
correct. Also it is obvious that with respect to all repeated experiences our memories afford
practically safe guides. When memory becomes the basis of some item of generalized knowledge,
as, for example, of the truth that the pain of indigestion has followed a too copious indulgence
in rich food, there is little room for an error of memory properly so called. On the other
hand, when an event is not repeated in our experience, but forms a unique link in our personal
history, the chances of error increase with the distance of the event; and here the best of
us will do well to have resort to a process of verification or, if necessary, of correction.

In order thus to verify the utterances of memory, we must look beyond our own internal mental
states to some external facts. Thus, the recollections of our early life may often be tested
by letters written by ourselves or our friends at the time, by diaries, and so on. When there
is no unerring objective record to be found, we may have recourse to the less satisfactory
method of comparing our recollections with those of others. By so doing we may reach a rough
average recollection which shall at least be free from any individual error corresponding to
that of personal equation in perception. But even thus we cannot be sure of eliminating all
error, since there may be a cause of illusion acting on all our minds alike, as, for example,
the extraordinary nature of the occurrence, which would pretty certainly lead to a common exaggeration
of its magnitude, etc., and since, moreover, this process of comparing recollections affords
an opportunity for that reading back a present preconception into the past to which reference
has already been made.

The result of our inquiry is less alarming than it looks at first sight. Knowledge is valuable
for action, and error is chiefly hurtful in so far as it misdirects conduct. Now, in a general
way, we do not need to act upon a recollection of single remote events; our conduct is sufficiently
shaped by an accurate recollection of single recent events, together with those bundles of
recollections of recurring events and sequences of events which constitute our knowledge of
ourselves and our common knowledge of the world about us. Nature has done commendably well
in endowing us with the means of cultivating our memories up to this point, and we ought not
to blame her for not giving us powers which would only very rarely prove of any appreciable
practical service to us.

NOTE.

MOMENTARY ILLUSIONS OF SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS.

The account of the apparent ruptures in our personal identity given in this chapter may help
us to understand the strange tendency to confuse self with other objects which occasionally
appears in waking consciousness and in dreams. These errors may be said generally to be due
to the breaking up of the composite image of self into its fragments, and the regarding of
certain of these only. Thus, the momentary occurrence of partial illusion in intense sympathy
with others, including that imaginative projection of self into inanimate objects, to which
reference has already been made, may be said to depend on exclusive attention to the subjective
aspect of self, to the total disregard of the objective aspect. In other words, when we thus
momentarily "lose ourselves," or merge our own existence in that of another object, we clearly
let drop out of sight the visual representation of our own individual organism. On the other
hand, when in dreams we double our personality, or represent to ourselves an external self
which becomes the object of visual perception, it is probably because we isolate in imagination
the objective aspect of our personality from the other and subjective aspect. It is not at
all unlikely that the several confusions of self touched on in this chapter have had something
to do with the genesis of the various historical theories of a transformed existence, as, for
example, the celebrated doctrine of metempsychosis.

CHAPTER XI.

ILLUSIONS OF BELIEF.

Our knowledge is commonly said to consist of two large varieties--Presentative and Representative.
Representative knowledge, again, falls into two chief divisions. The first of these is Memory,
which, though not primary or original, like presentative knowledge, is still regarded as directly
or intuitively certain. The second division consists of all other representative knowledge
besides memory, including, among other varieties, our anticipations of the future, our knowledge
of others' past experience, and our general knowledge about things. There is no one term which
exactly hits off this large sphere of cognition: I propose to call it Belief. I am aware that
this is by no means a perfect word for my purpose, since, on the one hand, it suggests that
every form of this knowledge must be less certain than presentative or mnemonic knowledge,
which cannot be assumed; and since, on the other hand, the word is so useful a one in psychology,
for the purpose of marking off the subjective fact of assurance in all kinds of cognition.
Nevertheless, I know not what better one I could select in order to make my classification
answer as closely as a scientific treatment will allow to the deeply fixed distinctions of
popular psychology.

It might at first seem as if perception, introspection, and memory must exhaust all that is
meant by immediate, or self-evident, knowledge, and as if what I have here called belief must
be uniformly mediate, derivate, or inferred knowledge. The apprehension of something now present
to the mind, externally or internally, and the reapprehension through the process of memory
of what was once so apprehended, might appear to be the whole of what can by any stretch of
language be called direct cognition of things. This at least would seem to follow from the
empirical theory of knowledge, which regards perception and memory as the ground or logical
source of all other forms of knowledge.

And even if we suppose, with some philosophers, that there are certain innate principles of
knowledge, it seems now to be generally allowed that these, apart from the particular facts
of experience, are merely abstractions; and that they only develop into complete knowledge
when they receive some empirical content, which must be supplied either by present perception
or by memory. So that in this case, too, all definite concrete knowledge would seem to be either
presentative cognition, memory, or, lastly, some mode of inference from these.

A little inquiry into the mental operations which I here include under the name belief will
show, however, that they are by no means uniformly process of inference. To take the simplest
form of such knowledge, anticipation of some personal experience: this may arise quite apart
from recollection, as a spontaneous projection of a mental image into the future. A person
may feel "intuitively certain" that something is going to happen to him which does not resemble
anything in his past experience. Not only so; even when the expectation corresponds to a bit
of past experience, this source of the expectation may, under certain circumstances, be altogether
lost to view, and the belief assume a secondarily automatic or intuitive character. Thus, a
man may have first entertained a belief in the success of some undertaking as the result of
a rough process of inference, but afterwards go on trusting when the grounds for his confidence
are wholly lost sight of.

This much may suffice for the present to show that belief sometimes approximates to immediate,
or self-evident, conviction. How far this is the case will come out in the course of our inquiry
into its different forms. This being so, it will be needful to include in our present study
the errors connected with the process of belief in so far as they simulate the immediate instantaneous
form of illusion.

What I have here called belief may be roughly distinguished into simple and compound belief.
By a simple belief I mean one which has to do with a single event or fact. It includes simple
modes of expectation, as well as beliefs in single past facts not guaranteed by memory. A compound
belief, on the other hand, has reference to a number of events or facts. Thus, our belief in
the continued existence of a particular object, as well as our convictions respecting groups
or classes of events, must be regarded as compound, since they can be shown to include a number
of simple beliefs.

A. Simple Illusory Belief: Expectation.

It will be well to begin our inquiry by examining the errors connected with simple expectations,
so far as these come under our definition of illusion. And here, following our usual practice,
we may set out with a very brief account of the nature of the intellectual process in its correct
form. For this purpose we shall do well to take a complete or definite anticipation of an event
as our type.[136]

The ability of the mind to move forward, forecasting an order of events in time, is clearly
very similar to its power of recalling events. Each depends on the capability of imagination
to represent a sequence of events or experiences. The difference between the two processes
is that in anticipation the imagination setting out from the present traces the succession
of experiences in their actual order, and not in the reverse order. It would thus appear to
be a more natural and easy process than recollection, and observation bears out this conclusion.
Any object present to perception which is associated with antecedents and consequents with
the same degree of cohesion, calls up its consequents rather than its antecedents. The spectacle
of the rising of the sun carries the mind much more forcibly forwards to the advancing morning
than backwards to the receding night. And there is good reason to suppose that in the order
of mental development the power of distinctly expecting an event precedes that of distinctly
recollecting one. Thus, in the case of the infant mind, as of the animal intelligence, the
presence of signs of coming events, as the preparation of food, seems to excite distinct and
vivid expectation.[137]

As a mode of assurance, expectation is clearly marked off from memory, and is not explainable
by means of this. It is a fundamentally distinct kind of conviction. So far as we are capable
of analyzing it, we may say that its peculiarity is its essentially active character. To expect
a thing is to have stirred the active impulses, including the powers of attention; it is to
be on the alert for it, to have the attention already focussed for it, and to begin to rehearse
the actions which the actual happening of the event--for example, the approach of a welcome
object--would excite. It thus stands in marked contrast to memory, which is a passive attitude
of mind, becoming active only when it gives rise to the expectation of a recurrence of the
event.[138]

And now let us pass to the question whether expectation ever takes the form of immediate knowledge.
It may, perhaps, be objected that the anticipation of something future cannot be knowledge
at all in the sense in which the perception of something present or the recollection of something
past is knowledge. But this objection, when examined closely, appears to be frivolous. Because
the future fact has not yet come into the sphere of actual existence, it is none the less the
object of a perfect assurance.[139]

But, even if it is conceded that expectation is knowledge, the objection may still be urged
that it cannot be immediate, since it is the very nature of expectation to ground itself on
memory. I have already hinted that this is not the case, and I shall now try to show that what
is called expectation covers much that is indistinguishable from immediate intuitive certainty,
and consequently offers room for an illusory form of error.

Let us set out with the simplest kind of expectation, the anticipation of something about to
happen within the region of our personal experience, and similar to what has happened before.
And let the coming of the event be first of all suggested by some present external fact or
sign. Suppose, for example, that the sky is heavy, the air sultry, and that I have a bad headache;
I confidently anticipate a thunderstorm. It would commonly be said that such an expectation
is a kind of inference from the past. I remember that these appearances have been followed
by a thunderstorm very often, and I infer that they will in this new case be so followed.

To this, however, it may be replied that in most cases there is no conscious going back to
the past at all. As I have already remarked, anticipation is pretty certainly in advance of
memory in early life. And even after the habit of passing from the past to the future, from
memory to expectation, has been formed, the number of the past repetitions of experience would
prevent the mind's clearly reverting to them. And, further, the very force of habit would tend
to make the transition from memory to expectation more and more rapid, automatic, and unconscious.
Thus it comes about that all distinctly suggested approaching events seem to be expected by
a kind of immediate act of belief. The present signs call up the representation of the coming
event with all the force of a direct intuition. At least, it may be said that if a process
of inference, it is one which has the minimum degree of consciousness.

It might still be urged that the mind passes from the present facts as signs, and so still
performs a kind of reasoning process. This is, no doubt, true, and differentiates expectation
from perception, in which there is no conscious transition from the presented to the represented.
Still I take it that this is only a process of reasoning in so far as the sign is consciously
generalized, and this is certainly not true of early expectations, or even of any expectations
in a wholly uncultivated mind.

For these reasons I think that any errors involved in such an anticipation may, without much
forcing, be brought under our definition of illusion. When due altogether to the immediate
force of suggestion in a present object or event, and not involving any conscious transition
from past to future, or from general truth to particular instance, these errors appear to me
to have more of the character of illusions than of that of fallacies.

Much the same thing may be said about the vivid anticipations of a familiar kind of experience
called up by a clear and consecutive verbal suggestion. When a man, even with an apparent air
of playfulness, tells me that something is going to happen, and gives a consistent consecutive
account of this, I have an anticipation which is not consciously grounded on any past experience
of the value of human testimony in general, or of this person's testimony in particular, but
which is instantaneous and quasi-immediate. Consequently, any error connected with the mental
act approximates to an illusion.

So far I have supposed that the anticipated event is a recurring one, that is to say, a kind
of experience which has already become familiar to us. This, however, holds good only of a
very few of our experiences. Our life changes as it progresses, both outwardly and inwardly.
Many of our anticipations, when first formed, involve much more than a reproduction of a past
experience, namely, a complex act of constructive imagination. Our representations of these
untried experiences, as, for example, those connected with a new set of circumstances, a new
social condition, a new mode of occupation, and so on, are clearly at the first far from simple
processes of inference from the past. They are put together by the aid of many fragmentary
images, restored by distinct threads of association, yet by a process so rapid as to appear
like an intuition. Indeed, the anticipation of such new experiences more often resembles an
instantaneous imaginative intuition than a process of conscious transition from old experiences.
In the case of these expectations, then, there would clearly seem to be room for illusion from
the first.

But even supposing that the errors connected with the first formation of an expectation cannot
strictly be called illusory, we may see that such simple expectation will, in certain cases,
tend to grow into something quite indistinguishable from illusion. I refer to expectations
of remote events which allow of frequent renewal. Even supposing the expectation to have originated
from some rational source, as from a conscious inference from past experience, or from the
acceptance of somebody's statement, the very habit of cherishing the anticipation tends to
invest it with an automatic self-sufficient character. To all intents and purposes the prevision
becomes intuitive, by which I mean that the mind is at the time immediately certain that something
is going to happen, without needing to fall back on memory or reflection. This being so, whenever
the initial process of inference or quasi-inference happens to have been bad, an illusory expectation
may arise. In other words, the force of repetition and habit tends to harden what may, in its
initial form, have resembled a kind of fallacy into an illusion.

And now let us proceed further. When a permanent expectation is thus formed, there arises the
possibility of processes which favour illusion precisely analogous to those which we have studied
in the case of memory.

In the first place, the habit of imagining a future event is attended with a considerable amount
of illusion as to time or remoteness. After what has been said respecting the conditions of
such error in the case of memory, a very few words will suffice here.

It is clear, then, in the first place, that the mind will tend to shorten any period of future
time, and so to antedate, so to speak, a given event, in so far as the imagination is able
clearly and easily to run over its probable experiences. From this it follows that repeated
forecastings of series of events, by facilitating the imaginative process, tend to beget an
illusory appearance of contraction in the time anticipated. Moreover, since in anticipation
so much of each division of the future time-line is unknown, it is obviously easy for the expectant
imagination to skip over long intervals, and so to bring together widely remote events.

In addition to this general error, there are more special errors. As in the case of recollection,
vividness of mental image suggests propinquity; and accordingly, all vivid anticipations, to
whatever cause the vividness may be owing, whether to powerful suggestion on the part of external
objects, to verbal suggestion, or to spontaneous imagination and feeling, are apt to represent
their objects as too near.

It follows that an event intensely longed for, in so far as the imagination is busy in representing
it, will seem to approach the present. At the same time, as we have seen, an event much longed
for commonly appears to be a great while coming, the explanation being that there is a continually
renewed contradiction between anticipation and perception. The self-adjustment of the mind
in the attitude of expectant attention proves again and again to be vain and futile, and it
is this fact which brings home to it the slowness of the sequences of perceived fact, as compared
with the rapidity of the sequences of imagination.

When speaking of the retrospective estimate of time, I observed that the apparent distance
of an event depends on our representation of the intervening time-segment. And the same remark
applies to the prospective estimate. Thus, an occurrence which we expect to happen next week
will seem specially near if we know little or nothing of the contents of the intervening space,
for in this case the imagination does not project the experience behind a number of other distinctly
represented events.

Finally, it is to be remarked that the prospective appreciation of any duration will tend to
err relatively by way of excess, where the time is exceptionally filled out with clearly expected
and deeply interesting experiences. To the imagination of the child, a holiday, filled with
new experiences, appears to be boundless.

Thus far I have assumed that the date of the future event is a matter which might be known.
It is, however, obvious, from the very nature of knowledge with respect to the future, that
we may sometimes be certain of a thing happening to us without knowing with any degree of definiteness
when it will happen. In the case of these temporally undefined expectations, the law already
expounded holds good that all vividness of representation tends to lend the things represented
an appearance of approaching events. On the other hand, there are some events, such as our
own death, which our instinctive feelings tend to banish to a region so remote as hardly to
be realized at all.

So much with respect to errors in the localizing of future events.

