I can remember meeting of a Sunday night Charles Whibley, Kenneth Grahame, author of 'The Golden
Age,' Barry Pain, now a well known novelist, R. A. M. Stevenson, art critic and a famous talker,
George Wyndham, later on a cabinet minister and Irish chief secretary, and Oscar Wilde, who
was some eight years or ten older than the rest. But faces and names are vague to me and, while
faces that I met but once may rise clearly before me, a face met on many a Sunday has perhaps
vanished. Kipling came sometimes, I think, but I never met him; and Stepniak, the nihilist,
whom I knew well elsewhere but not there, said 'I cannot go more than once a year, it is too
exhausting.' Henley got the best out of us all, because he had made us accept him as our judge
and we knew that his judgment could neither sleep, nor be softened, nor changed, nor turned
aside. When I think of him, the antithesis that is the foundation of human nature being ever
in my sight, I see his crippled legs as though he were some Vulcan perpetually forging swords
for other men to use; and certainly I always thought of C..., a fine classical scholar, a pale
and seemingly gentle man, as our chief swordsman and bravo. When Henley founded his weekly
newspaper, first the 'Scots,' afterwards 'The National Observer,' this young man wrote articles
and reviews notorious for savage wit; and years afterwards when 'The National Observer' was
dead, Henley dying & our cavern of outlaws empty, I met him in Paris very sad and I think very
poor. 'Nobody will employ me now,' he said. 'Your master is gone,' I answered, 'and you are
like the spear in an old Irish story that had to be kept dipped in poppy- juice that it might
not go about killing people on its own account.' I wrote my first good lyrics and tolerable
essays for 'The National Obsever' and as I always signed my work could go my own road in some
measure. Henley often revised my lyrics, crossing out a line or a stanza and writing in one
of his own, and I was comforted by my belief that he also re-wrote Kipling then in the first
flood of popularity. At first, indeed, I was ashamed of being re-written and thought that others
were not, and only began investigation when the editorial characteristics--epigrams, archaisms
and all--appeared in the article upon Paris fashions and in that upon opium by an Egyptian
Pasha. I was not compelled to full conformity for verse is plainly stubborn; and in prose,
that I might avoid unacceptable opinions, I wrote nothing but ghost or fairy stories, picked
up from my mother, or some pilot at Rosses Point, and Henley saw that I must needs mix a palette
fitted to my subject matter. But if he had changed every 'has' into 'hath' I would have let
him, for had not we sunned ourselves in his generosity? 'My young men out-dome and they write
better than I,' he wrote in some letter praising Charles Whibley's work, and to another friend
with a copy of my 'Man who dreamed of Fairyland:' 'See what a fine thing has been written by
one of my lads.'

VI

My first meeting with Oscar Wilde was an astonishment. I never before heard a man talking with
perfect sentences, as if he had written them all over night with labour and yet all spontaneous.
There was present that night at Henley's, by right of propinquity or of accident, a man full
of the secret spite of dullness, who interrupted from time to time and always to check or disorder
thought; and I noticed with what mastery he was foiled and thrown. I noticed, too, that the
impression of artificiality that I think all Wilde's listeners have recorded, came from the
perfect rounding of the sentences and from the deliberation that made it possible. That very
impression helped him as the effect of metre, or of the antithetical prose of the seventeenth
century, which is itself a true metre, helps a writer, for he could pass without incongruity
from some unforeseen swift stroke of wit to elaborate reverie. I heard him say a few nights
later: 'Give me "The Winter's Tale," "Daffodils that come before the swallow dare" but not
"King Lear." What is "King Lear" but poor life staggering in the fog?' and the slow cadence,
modulated with so great precision, sounded natural to my ears. That first night he praised
Walter Pater's 'Essays on the Renaissance:' 'It is my golden book; I never travel anywhere
without it; but it is the very flower of decadence. The last trumpet should have sounded the
moment it was written.' 'But,' said the dull man, 'would you not have given us time to read
it?' 'Oh no,' was the retort, 'there would have been plenty of time afterwards--in either world.'
I think he seemed to us, baffled as we were by youth, or by infirmity, a triumphant figure,
and to some of us a figure from another age, an audacious Italian fifteenth century figure.
A few weeks before I had heard one of my father's friends, an official in a publishing firm
that had employed both Wilde and Henley as editors, blaming Henley who was 'no use except under
control' and praising Wilde, 'so indolent but such a genius;' and now the firm became the topic
of our talk. 'How often do you go to the office?' said Henley. 'I used to go three times a
week,' said Wilde, 'for an hour a day but I have since struck off one of the days.' 'My God,'
said Henley, 'I went five times a week for five hours a day and when I wanted to strike off
a day they had a special committee meeting.' 'Furthermore,' was Wilde's answer, 'I never answered
their letters. I have known men come to London full of bright prospects and seen them complete
wrecks in a few months through a habit of answering letters.' He too knew how to keep our elders
in their place, and his method was plainly the more successful for Henley had been dismissed.
'No he is not an aesthete,' Henley commented later, being somewhat embarrassed by Wilde's Pre-Raphaelite
entanglement. 'One soon finds that he is a scholar and a gentleman.' And when I dined with
Wilde a few days afterwards he began at once, 'I had to strain every nerve to equal that man
at all;' and I was too loyal to speak my thought: 'You & not he' said all the brilliant things.
He like the rest of us had felt the strain of an intensity that seemed to hold life at the
point of drama. He had said, on that first meeting, 'The basis of literary friendship is mixing
the poisoned bowl;' and for a few weeks Henley and he became close friends till, the astonishment
of their meeting over, diversity of character and ambition pushed them apart, and, with half
the cavern helping, Henley began mixing the poisoned bowl for Wilde. Yet Henley never wholly
lost that first admiration, for after Wilde's downfall he said to me: 'Why did he do it? I
told my lads to attack him and yet we might have fought under his banner.'

VII

It became the custom, both at Henley's and at Bedford Park, to say that R. A. M. Stevenson,
who frequented both circles, was the better talker. Wilde had been trussed up like a turkey
by undergraduates, dragged up and down a hill, his champagne emptied into the ice tub, hooted
in the streets of various towns and I think stoned, and no newspaper named him but in scorn;
his manner had hardened to meet opposition and at times he allowed one to see an unpardonable
insolence. His charm was acquired and systematised, a mask which he wore only when it pleased
him, while the charm of Stevenson belonged to him like the colour of his hair. If Stevenson's
talk became monologue we did not know it, because our one object was to show by our attention
that he need never leave off. If thought failed him we would not combat what he had said, or
start some new theme, but would encourage him with a question; and one felt that it had been
always so from childhood up. His mind was full of phantasy for phantasy's sake and he gave
as good entertainment in monologue as his cousin Robert Louis in poem or story. He was always
'supposing:' 'Suppose you had two millions what would you do with it?' and 'Suppose you were
in Spain and in love how would you propose?' I recall him one afternoon at our house at Bedford
Park, surrounded by my brother and sisters and a little group of my father's friends, describing
proposals in half a dozen countries. There your father did it, dressed in such and such a way
with such and such words, and there a friend must wait for the lady outside the chapel door,
sprinkle her with holy water and say 'My friend Jones is dying for love of you.' But when it
was over, those quaint descriptions, so full of laughter and sympathy, faded or remained in
the memory as something alien from one's own life like a dance I once saw in a great house,
where beautifully dressed children wound a long ribbon in and out as they danced. I was not
of Stevenson's party and mainly I think because he had written a book in praise of Velasquez,
praise at that time universal wherever Pre-Raphaelitism was accurst, and to my mind, that had
to pick its symbols where its ignorance permitted, Velasquez seemed the first bored celebrant
of boredom. I was convinced, from some obscure meditation, that Stevenson's conversational
method had joined him to my elders and to the indifferent world, as though it were right for
old men, and unambitious men and all women, to be content with charm and humour. It was the
prerogative of youth to take sides and when Wilde said: 'Mr. Bernard Shaw has no enemies but
is intensely disliked by all his friends,' I knew it to be a phrase I should never forget,
and felt revenged upon a notorious hater of romance, whose generosity and courage I could not
fathom.

VIII

I saw a good deal of Wilde at that time--was it 1887 or 1888?--I have no way of fixing the
date except that I had published my first book 'The Wanderings of Usheen' and that Wilde had
not yet published his 'Decay of Lying.' He had, before our first meeting, reviewed my book
and despite its vagueness of intention, and the inexactness of its speech, praised without
qualification; and what was worth more than any review had talked about it, and now he asked
me to eat my Xmas dinner with him, believing, I imagine, that I was alone in London.

He had just renounced his velveteen, and even those cuffs turned backward over the sleeves,
and had begun to dress very carefully in the fashion of the moment. He lived in a little house
at Chelsea that the architect Godwin had decorated with an elegance that owed something to
Whistler. There was nothing mediaeval, nor Pre-Raphaelite, no cupboard door with figures upon
flat gold, no peacock blue, no dark background. I remember vaguely a white drawing room with
Whistler etchings, 'let in' to white panels, and a dining room all white: chairs, walls, mantlepiece,
carpet, except for a diamond-shaped piece of red cloth in the middle of the table under a terra
cotta statuette, and I think a red shaded lamp hanging from the ceiling to a little above the
statuette. It was perhaps too perfect in its unity, his past of a few years before had gone
too completely, and I remember thinking that the perfect harmony of his life there, with his
beautiful wife and his two young children, suggested some deliberate artistic composition.
Only when he spoke, or when his writing was the mirror of his speech, or in some simple fairytale,
had he words exact enough to hold a subtle ear. He alarmed me, though not as Henley did for
I never left his house thinking myself fool or dunce. He flattered the intellect of every man
he liked; he made me tell him long Irish stories and compared my art of story-telling to Homer's;
and once when he had described himself as writing in the census paper 'age 19, profession genius,
infirmity talent,' the other guest, a young journalist fresh from Oxford or Cambridge, said
'What should I have written?' and was told that it should have been 'profession talent, infirmity
genius.' When, however, I called, wearing shoes a little too yellow--unblackened leather had
just become fashionable--I understood their extravagence when I saw his eyes fixed upon them;
an another day Wilde asked me to tell his little boy a fairy story, and I had but got as far
as 'Once upon a time there was a giant' when the little boy screamed and ran out of the room.
Wilde looked grave and I was plunged into the shame of clumsiness that afflicts the young.
When I asked for some literary gossip for some provincial newspaper, that paid me a few shillings
a month, he explained very explicitly that writing literary gossip was no job for a gentleman.
Though to be compared to Homer passed the time pleasantly, I had not been greatly perturbed
had he stopped me with 'Is it a long story?' as Henley would certainly have done. I was abashed
before him as wit and man of the world alone. I remember that he deprecated the very general
belief in his success or his efficiency, and I think with sincerity. One form of success had
gone: he was no more the lion of the season, and he had not discovered his gift for writing
comedy, yet I think I knew him at the happiest moment of his life. No scandal had darkened
his fame, his fame as a talker was growing among his equals, & he seemed to live in the enjoyment
of his own spontaneity. One day he began: 'I have been inventing a Christian heresy,' and he
told a detailed story, in the style of some early father, of how Christ recovered after the
Crucifixion and, escaping from the tomb, lived on for many years, the one man upon earth who
knew the falsehood of Christianity. Once St. Paul visited his town and he alone in the carpenters'
quarter did not go to hear him preach. The other carpenters noticed that henceforth, for some
unknown reason, he kept his hands covered. A few days afterwards I found Wilde, with smock
frocks in various colours spread out upon the floor in front of him, while a missionary explained
that he did not object to the heathen going naked upon week days, but insisted upon clothes
in church. He had brought the smock frocks in a cab that the only art-critic whose fame had
reached Central Africa might select a colour; so Wilde sat there weighing all with a conscious
ecclesiastic solemnity.

VIII

Of late years I have often explained Wilde to myself by his family history. His father, was
a friend or acquaintance of my father's father and among my family traditions there is an old
Dublin riddle: 'Why are Sir William Wilde's nails so black?' Answer, 'Because he has scratched
himself.' And there is an old story still current in Dublin of Lady Wilde saying to a servant.
'Why do you put the plates on the coal-scuttle? What are the chairs meant for?' They were famous
people and there are many like stories, and even a horrible folk story, the invention of some
Connaught peasant, that tells how Sir William Wilde took out the eyes of some men, who had
come to consult him as an oculist, and laid them upon a plate, intending to replace them in
a moment, and how the eyes were eaten by a cat. As a certain friend of mine, who has made a
prolonged study of the nature of cats, said when he first heard the tale, 'Catslove eyes.'
The Wilde family was clearly of the sort that fed the imagination of Charles Lever, dirty,
untidy, daring, and what Charles Lever, who loved more normal activities, might not have valued
so highly, very imaginative and learned. Lady Wilde, who when I knew her received her friends
with blinds drawn and shutters closed that none might see her withered face, longed always
perhaps, though certainly amid much self mockery, for some impossible splendour of character
and circumstance. She lived near her son in level Chelsea, but I have heard her say, 'I want
to live on some high place, Primrose Hill or Highgate, because I was an eagle in my youth.'
I think her son lived with no self mockery at all an imaginary life; perpetually performed
a play which was in all things the opposite of all that he had known in childhood and early
youth; never put off completely his wonder at opening his eyes every morning on his own beautiful
house, and in remembering that he had dined yesterday with a duchess and that he delighted
in Flaubert and Pater, read Homer in the original and not as a school-master reads him for
the grammar. I think, too, that because of all that half-civilized blood in his veins, he could
not endure the sedentary toil of creative art and so remained a man of action, exaggerating,
for the sake of immediate effect, every trick learned from his masters, turning their easel
painting into painted scenes. He was a parvenu, but a parvenu whose whole bearing proved that
if he did dedicate every story in 'The House of Pomegranates' to a lady of title, it was but
to show that he was Jack and the social ladder his pantomime beanstalk. "Did you ever hear
him say 'Marquess of Dimmesdale'?" a friend of his once asked me. "He does not say 'the Duke
of York' with any pleasure."

He told me once that he had been offered a safe seat in Parliament and, had he accepted, he
might have had a career like that of Beaconsfield, whose early style resembles his, being meant
for crowds, for excitement, for hurried decisions, for immediate triumphs. Such men get their
sincerity, if at all, from the contact of events; the dinner table was Wilde's event and made
him the greatest talker of his time, and his plays and dialogues have what merit they possess
from being now an imitation, now a record, of his talk. Even in those days I would often defend
him by saying that his very admiration for his predecessors in poetry, for Browning, for Swinburne
and Rossetti, in their first vogue while he was a very young man, made any success seem impossible
that could satisfy his immense ambition: never but once before had the artist seemed so great,
never had the work of art seemed so difficult. I would then compare him with Benvenuto Cellini
who, coming after Michael Angelo, found nothing left to do so satisfactory as to turn bravo
and assassinate the man who broke Michael Angelo's nose.

IX

