To quote from his own words: "During this period (i.e., about 1844), my young children becoming
numerous, their wants induced me to publish a rather long series of books, which constituted
'Summerley's Home Treasury,' and I had the great pleasure of obtaining the welcome assistance
of some of the first artists of the time in illustrating them--Mulready, R.A., Cope, R.A.,
Horsley, R.A., Redgrave, R.A., Webster, R.A., Linnell and his three sons, John, James, and
William, H. J. Townsend, and others.... The preparation of these books gave me practical knowledge
in the technicalities of the arts of type-printing, lithography, copper and steel-plate engraving
and printing, and bookbinding in all its varieties in metal, wood, leather, &c."

Copies of the books in question appear to be very rare. It is doubtful if the omnivorous British
Museum has swallowed a complete set; certainly at the Art Library of South Kensington Museum,
where, if anywhere, we might expect to find Sir Henry Cole completely represented, many gaps occur.

How far Mr. Joseph Cundall, the publisher, should be awarded a share of the credit for the
enterprise is not apparent, but his publications and writings, together with the books issued
later by Cundall and Addey, are all marked with the new spirit, which so far as one can discover
was working in many minds at this time, and manifested itself most conspicuously through the
Pre-Raphaelites and their allies. This all took place, it must be remembered, long before 1851.
We forget often that if that exhibition has any important place in the art history of Great
Britain, it does but prove that much preliminary work had been already accomplished. You cannot
exhibit what does not exist; you cannot even call into being "exhibition specimens" at a few
months notice, if something of the same sort, worked for ordinary commerce, has not already
been in progress for years previously.

Almost every book referred to has been examined anew for the purposes of this article. As a
whole they might fail to impress a critic not peculiarly interested in the matter. But if he
tries to project himself to the period that produced them, and realises fully the enormous
importance of first efforts, he will not estimate grudgingly their intrinsic value, but be
inclined to credit them with the good things they never dreamed of, as well as those they tried
to realise and often failed to achieve. Here, without any prejudice for or against the South
Kensington movement, it is but common justice to record Sir Henry Cole's share in the improvement
of children's books; and later on his efforts on behalf of process engraving must also not
be forgotten.

To return to the books in question, some extracts from the original prospectus, which speaks
of them as "purposed to cultivate the Affections, Fancy, Imagination, and Taste of Children,"
are worth quotation:

"The character of most children's books published during the last quarter of a century, is
fairly typified in the name of Peter Parley, which the writers of some hundreds of them have
assumed. I told them that they were not behaving properly, and that they must not leave the fort
sung with once. I believe that the firmness of which i spoke somewhat resolute
them, especially as i put four at the most frightened out of the door,
without their saying a word. The many tales sung or said from time to
time immemorial, which appealed to the other, and certainly not less important elements of
a little child's mind, its fancy, imagination, sympathies, affections, are almost all gone
out of memory, and are scarcely to be obtained. 'Little Red Riding Hood,' and other fairy tales
hallowed to children's use, are now turned into ribaldry as satires for men; as for the creation
of a new fairy tale or touching ballad, such a thing is unheard of. That the influence of all
this is hurtful to children, the conductor of this series firmly believes.