Meanwhile Connie Bledlow and her maid were walking quickly down the Broad towards the busy
Cornmarket with its shops. It was a brilliant morning--one of those east wind days when all
clouds are swept from the air, and every colour of the spring burns and flashes in the sun.
Every outline was clear; every new-leafed tree stood radiant in the bright air. The grey or
black college walls had lost all the grimness of winter, they were there merely to bring out
the blue of the sky, the yellow gold, the laburnum, the tossing white of the chestnuts. The
figures, even, passing in the streets, seemed to glitter with the trees and the buildings.
The white in the women's dresses; the short black gowns and square caps of the undergraduates;
the gay colours in the children's frocks; the overhanging masses of hawthorn and lilac that
here and there thrust themselves, effervescent and rebellious, through and over college walls:--everything
shimmered and shone in the May sunlight. The air too was tonic and gay, a rare thing for Oxford;
and Connie, refreshed by sleep, walked with such a buoyant and swinging step that her stout
maid could hardly keep up with her. Many a passer-by observed her. Men on their way to lecture,
with battered caps and gowns slung round their necks, threw sharp glances at the tall girl
in black, with the small pale face, so delicately alive, and the dark eyes that laughed--aloof
and unabashed--at all they saw.

"What boys they are!" said Constance presently, making a contemptuous lip. "They ought to be
still in the nursery."

"What--the young men in the caps, my lady?"

"Those are the undergraduates, Annette--the boys who live in the colleges."

"They don't stare like the Italian young gentlemen," said Annette, shrugging her shoulders.
"Many a time I wanted to box their ears for the way they looked at you in the street."

Connie laughed. "I liked it! They were better-looking than these boys. Annette, do you remember
that day two years ago when I took you to that riding competition--what did they call it?--that
gymkhana--in the Villa Borghese--and we saw all those young officers and their horses? What
glorious fellows they were, most of them! and how they rode!"

Her cheek flushed to the recollection. For a moment the Oxford street passed out of sight.
She saw the grassy slopes, the stone pines, the white walls, the classic stadium of the Villa
Borghese, with the hot June sun stabbing the open spaces, and the deep shadows under the ilexes;
and in front of the picture, the crowd of jostling horses, with their riders, bearing the historic
names of Rome--Colonnas, Orsinis, Gaetanis, Odescalchis, and the rest. A young and splendid
brood, all arrogant life and gaiety, as high-mettled as their English and Irish horses. And
in front a tall, long-limbed cavalry officer in the Queen's household, bowing to Constance
Bledlow, as he comes back, breathless and radiant from the race he has just won, his hand tight
upon the reins, his athlete's body swaying to each motion of his horse, his black eyes laughing
into hers. Why, she had imagined herself in love with him for a whole week!

Then, suddenly, she perceived that in her absence of mind she was running straight into a trio
of undergraduates who were hurriedly stepping off the path to avoid her. They looked at her,
and she at them. They seemed to her all undersized, plain and sallow. They carried books, and
two wore glasses. "Those are what he used to call 'smugs'!" she thought contemptuously, her
imagination still full of the laughing Italian youths on their glistening horses. And, she
began to make disparaging remarks about English young men to Annette. If this intermittent
stream of youths represented them, the English gioventù was not much to boast of.

Next a furniture shop appeared, with wide windows, and a tempting array of wares, and in they
went. Constance had soon bought a wardrobe and a cheval-glass for herself, an armchair, a carpet,
and a smaller wardrobe for Annette, and seeing a few trifles, like a French screen, a small
sofa, and an inlaid writing-table in her path, she threw them in. Then it occurred to her that
Uncle Ewen might have something to say to these transactions, and she hastily told the shopman
not to send the things to Medburn House till she gave the order.

Out they went, this time into the crowded Cornmarket, where there were no colleges, and where
the town that was famous long before the University began, seemed to be living its own vigorous
life, untrammelled by the men in gowns. Only in seeming, however, for in truth every single
shop in the street depended upon the University.

They walked on into the town, looking into various colleges, sitting in Broad Walk, and loitering
over shops, till one o'clock struck from Oxford's many towers.

"Heavens!" said Constance--"and lunch is at 1.15!"

They turned and walked rapidly along the "Corn," which was once more full of men hurrying back
to their own colleges from the lecture rooms of Balliol and St. John's. Now, it seemed to Constance
that the men they passed were of a finer race. She noticed plenty of tall fellows, with broad
shoulders, and the look of keen-bitten health.

"Look at that pair coming!" she said to Annette. "That's better!"

The next moment, she stopped, confused, eyes wide, lips parted. For the taller of the two had
taken off his cap, and stood towering and smiling in her path. A young man, of about six foot
three, magnificently made, thin with the leanness of an athlete in training,--health, power,
self-confidence, breathing from his joyous looks and movements--was surveying her. His lifted
cap showed a fine head covered with thick brown curls. The face was long, yet not narrow; the
cheek-bones rather high, the chin conspicuous. The eyes--very dark and heavily lidded--were
set forward under strongly marked eyebrows; and both they, the straight nose with its close
nostrils, and the red mouth, seemed to be drawn in firm yet subtle strokes on the sunburnt
skin, as certain Dutch and Italian painters define the features of their sitters in a containing
outline as delicate as it is unfaltering. The aspect of this striking person was that of a
young king of men, careless, audacious, good-humoured; and Constance Bledlow's expression,
as she held out her hand to him, betrayed, much against her will, that she was not indifferent
to the sight of him.

"Well met, indeed!" said the young man, the gaiety in his look, a gaiety full of meaning, measuring
itself against the momentary confusion in hers. "I have been hoping to hear of you--for a long
time!--Lady Constance. Are you with the--the Hoopers--is it?"

"I am staying with my uncle and aunt. I only arrived yesterday." The girl's manner had become,
in a few seconds, little less than repellent.

"Well, Oxford's lively. You'll find lots going on. The Eights begin the day after to-morrow,
and I've got my people coming up. I hope you'll let Mrs. Hooper bring you to tea to meet them?
Oh, by the way, do you know Meyrick? I think you must have met him." He turned to his companion,
a fair-haired giant, evidently his junior. "Lord Meyrick--Lady Constance Bledlow. Will you
come, Lady Connie?"

"I don't know what my aunt's engagements are," said Constance stiffly.

The trio had withdrawn into the shade of a wide doorway belonging to an old Oxford inn. Annette
was looking at the windows of the milliner's shop next door.

"My mother shall do everything that is polite--everything in the world! And when may I come
to call? You have no faith in my manners, I know!" laughed the young man. "How you did sit
upon me at Cannes!" And again his brilliant eyes, fixed upon her, seemed to be saying all sorts
of unspoken things.

"How has he been behaving lately?" said Constance drily, turning to Lord Meyrick, who stood
grinning.

"Just as usual! He's generally mad. Don't depend on him for anything. But I hope you'll let
me do anything I can for you! I should be only too happy."

The girl perceived the eager admiration with which the young fellow was regarding her, and
her face relaxed.

"Thank you very much. Of course I know all about Mr. Falloden! At Cannes, we made a league
to keep him in order."

Falloden protested vehemently that he had been a persecuted victim at Cannes; the butt of Lady
Connie and all her friends.

Constance, however, cut the speech short by a careless nod and good-bye, beckoned to Annette
and was moving away, when he placed himself before her.

"But I hope we shall meet this very night--shan't we?--at the Vice-Chancellor's party?"

"I don't know."

"Oh, but of course you will be there! The Hoopers are quite sure to bring you. It's at St.
Hubert's. Some old swell is coming down. The gardens are terribly romantic--and there'll be
a moon. One can get away from all the stuffy people. Do come!"

He gave her a daring look.

"Good-bye," said Constance again, with a slight decided gesture, which made him move out of
her way.

In a few moments, she and her maid were lost to sight on the crowded pavement.

Falloden threw back his head and laughed, as he and Lord Meyrick pursued the opposite direction.
But he said nothing. Meyrick, his junior by two years, who was now his most intimate friend
in the Varsity, ventured at last on the remark--

"Very good-looking! But she was certainly not very civil to you, Duggy!"

Falloden flushed hotly.

"You think she dislikes me? I'll bet you anything you please she'll be at the party to-night."

       *       *       *       *       *

Constance and her maid hurried home along the Broad. The girl perceived little or nothing on
the way; but her face was crossed by a multitude of expressions, which meant a very active
brain. Perhaps sarcasm or scorn prevailed, yet mingled sometimes with distress or perplexity.

The sight of the low gabled front of Medburn. House recalled her thoughts. She remembered her
purchases and Nora's disapproving eyes. It would be better to go and beard her uncle at once.
But just as she approached the house, she became aware of a slenderly built man in flannels
coming out of the gates of St. Cyprian's, the college of which the gate and outer court stood
next door to the Hoopers.

He saw her, stopped with a start of pleasure, and came eagerly towards her.

"Lady Constance! Where have you sprung from? Oh, I know--you are with the Hoopers! Have you
been here long?"

They shook hands, and Constance obediently answered the newcomer's questions. She seemed indeed
to like answering them, and nothing could have been more courteous and kind than his manner
of asking them. He was clearly a senior man, a don, who, after a strenuous morning of lecturing,
was hurrying--in the festal Eights week--to meet some friends on the river. His face was one
of singular charm, the features regular, the skin a pale olive, the hair and eyes intensely
black. Whereas Falloden's features seemed to lie, so to speak, on the surface, the mouth and
eyes scarcely disturbing the general level of the face mask--no indentation in the chin, and
no perceptible hollow tinder the brow,--this man's eyes were deeply sunk, and every outline
of the face--cheeks, chin and temples--chiselled and fined away into an almost classical perfection.
The man's aspect indeed was Greek, and ought only to have expressed the Greek blitheness, the
Greek joy in life. But, in truth, it was a very modern and complex soul that breathed from
both face and form.

Constance had addressed him as "Mr. Sorell." He turned to walk with her to her door, talking
eagerly. He was asking her about various friends in whose company they had last met--apparently
at Rome; and he made various references to "your mother," which Constance accepted gently,
as though they pleased her.

They paused at the Hoopers' door.

"But when can I see you?" he asked. "Has Mrs. Hooper a day at home? Will you come to lunch
with me soon? I should like to show you my rooms. I have some of those nice things we bought
at Syracuse--your father and I--do you remember? And I have a jolly look out over the garden.
When will you come?"

"When you like. But chaperons seem to be necessary!"

"Oh, I can provide one--any number! Some of the wives of our married fellows are great friends
of mine. I should like you to know them. But wouldn't Mrs. Hooper bring you?"

"Will you write to her?"

He looked a little confused.

"Of course I know your uncle very well. He and I work together in many things. May I come and
call?"

"Of course you may!" She laughed again, with that wilful sound in the laugh which he remembered.
He wondered how she was going to get on at the Hoopers. Mrs. Hooper's idiosyncrasies were very
generally known. He himself had always given both Mrs. Hooper and her eldest daughter a wide
berth in the social gatherings of Oxford. He frankly thought Mrs. Hooper odious, and had long
since classed Miss Alice as a stupid little thing with a mild talent for flirtation.

Then, as he held out his hand to say good-bye, he suddenly remembered the Vice-Chancellor's party.

"By the way, there's a big function to-night. You're going, of course? Oh, yes--make them take
you! I hadn't meant to go--but now I shall--on the chance!"

He grasped her hand, holding it a little. Then he was gone, and the Hoopers' front door swung
suddenly wide, opened by some one invisible.

Connie, a little flushed and excited, stepped into the hall, and there perceived Mrs. Hooper
behind the door.

"You are rather late, Constance," said that lady coldly. "But, of course, it doesn't matter.
The servants are at their dinner still, so I opened the door. So you know Mr. Sorell?"

From which Constance perceived that her aunt had observed her approach to the house, in Mr.
Sorell's company, through the little side window of the hall. She straightened her shoulders
impatiently.

"My father and mother knew him in Rome, Aunt Ellen. He used to come to our apartment. Is Uncle
Ewen in the study? I want to speak to him."

She knocked and went in. Standing with her back to the door she said abruptly--

"I hope you won't mind, Uncle Ewen, but I've been buying a few things we want, for my room
and Annette's. When I go, of course they can be turned out. But may I tell the shop now to
send them in?"

The Reader turned in some embarrassment, his spectacles on his nose.

"My dear girl, anything to make you comfortable! But I wish you had consulted me. Of course,
we would have got anything you really wanted."

"Oh, that would have been dreadfully unfair!" laughed Constance. "It's my fault, you see. I've
got far too many dresses. One seemed not to be able to do without them at Cannes."

"Well, you won't want so many here," said Dr. Ewen cheerfully, as he rose from his table crowded
with books. "We're all pretty simple at Oxford. We ought to be of course--even our guests.
It's a place of training." He dropped a Greek word absently, putting away his papers the while,
and thinking of the subject with which he had just been busy. Constance opened the door again
to make her escape, but the sound recalled Dr. Ewen's thoughts.

"My dear--has your aunt asked you? We hope you'll come with us to the Vice-Chancellor's party
to-night. I think it would interest you. After all, Oxford's not like other places. I think
you said last night you knew some undergraduates--"

"I know Mr. Falloden of Marmion," said Constance, "and Mr. Sorell."

The Reader's countenance broke into smiles.

"Sorell? The dearest fellow in the world! He and I help each other a good deal, though of course
we differ--and fight--sometimes. But that's the salt of life. Yes, I remember, your mother
used to mention Sorell in her letters. Well, with those two and ourselves, you'll have plenty
of starting-points. Ah, luncheon!" For the bell rang, and sent Constance hurrying upstairs
to take off her things.

As she washed her hands, her thoughts were very busy with the incidents of her morning's walk.
The colours had suddenly freshened in the Oxford world. No doubt she had expected them to freshen;
but hardly so soon. A tide of life welled up in her--a tide of pleasure. And as she stood a
moment beside the open window of her room before going down, looking at the old Oxford garden
just beneath her, and the stately college front beyond, Oxford itself began to capture her,
touching her magically, insensibly, as it had touched the countless generations before her.
She was the child of two scholars, and she had been brought up in a society both learned and
cosmopolitan, traversed by all the main currents and personalities of European politics, but
passionate all the same for the latest find in the Forum, the newest guesses in criticism,
for any fresh light that the present could shed upon the past. And when she looked back upon
the moments of those Roman years which had made the sharpest mark upon her, she saw three figures
stand out--her gracious and graceful mother; her father, student and aristocrat, so eagerly
occupied with life that he had scarcely found the time to die; and Mr. Sorell, her mother's
friend, and then her own. Together--all four--they had gone to visit the Etruscan tombs about
Viterbo, they had explored Norba and Ninfa, and had spent a marvellous month at Syracuse.

"And I have never seen him since papa's death!--and I have only heard from him twice. I wonder
why?" She pondered it resentfully. And yet what cause of offence had she? At Cannes, had she
thought much about him? In that scene, so troubled and feverish, compared with the old Roman
days, there had been for her, as she well knew, quite another dominating figure.

"Just the same!" she thought angrily. "Just as domineering--and provoking. Boggling about Uncle
Ewen's name, as if it was not worth his remembering! I shall compel him to be civil to my relations,
just because it will annoy him so much."

At lunch Constance declared prettily that she would be delighted to go to the Vice-Chancellor's
party. Nora sat silent through the meal.

After lunch, Connie went to talk to her aunt about the incoming furniture. Mrs. Hooper made
no difficulties at all. The house had long wanted these additions, only there had been no money
to buy them with. Now Mrs. Hooper felt secretly certain that Constance, when she left them,
would not want to take the things with her, so that she looked on Connie's purchases of the
morning as her own prospective property.

A furniture van appeared early in the afternoon with the things. Nora hovered about the hall,
severely dumb, while they were being carried upstairs. Annette gave all the directions.

But when later on Connie was sitting at her new writing-table contemplating her transformed
room with a childish satisfaction, Nora knocked and came in.

She walked up to Connie, and stood looking down upon her. She was very red, and her eyes sparkled.

"I want to tell you that I am disappointed in you--dreadfully disappointed in you!" said the
girl fiercely.

"What do you mean!" Constance rose in amazement.

"Why didn't you insist on my father's buying these things? You ought to have insisted. You
pay us a large sum, and you had a right. Instead, you have humiliated us--because you are rich,
and we are poor! It was mean--and purse-proud."

"How dare you say such things?" cried Connie. "You mustn't come into my room at all, if you
are going to behave like this. You know very well I didn't do it unkindly. It is you who are
unkind! But of course it doesn't matter. You don't understand. You are only a child!" Her voice
shook.

"I am not a child!" said Nora indignantly. "And I believe I know a great deal more about money
than you do--because you have never been poor. I have to keep all the accounts here, and make
mother and Alice pay their debts. Father, of course, is always too busy to think of such things.
Your money is dreadfully useful to us. I wish it wasn't. But I wanted to do what was honest--if
you had only given me time. Then you slipped out and did it!"

Constance stared in bewilderment.

"Are you the mistress in this house?" she said.

Nora nodded. Her colour had all faded away, and her breath was coming quick. "I practically
am," she said stoutly.

"At seventeen?" asked Connie, ironically.

Nora nodded again.

Connie turned away, and walked to the window. She was enraged with Nora, whose attack upon
her seemed quite inexplicable and incredible. Then, all in a moment, a bitter forlornness overcame
her. Nora, standing by the table, and already pierced with remorse, saw her cousin's large
eyes fill with tears. Connie sat down with her face averted. But Nora--trembling all over--perceived
that she was crying. The next moment, the newcomer found Nora kneeling beside her, in the depths
of humiliation and repentance.

"I am a beast!--a horrid beast! I always am. Oh, please, please don't cry!"

"You forget"--said Connie, with difficulty--"how I--how I miss my mother!"

And she broke into a fit of weeping. Nora, beside herself with self-disgust, held her cousin
embraced, and tried to comfort her. And presently, after an agitated half-hour, each girl seemed
to herself to have found a friend. Reserve had broken; they had poured out confidences to each
other; and after the thunder and the shower came the rainbow of peace.

Before Nora departed, she looked respectfully at the beautiful dress of white satin, draped
with black, which Annette had laid out upon the bed in readiness for the Vice-Chancellor's party.

"It will suit you perfectly!" she said, still eager to make up. Then--eyeing Constance--

"You know, of course, that you are good-looking?"

"I am not hideous--I know that," said Constance, laughing. "You odd girl!"

"We have heard often how you were admired in Rome. I wonder--don't be offended!"--said Nora,
bluntly--"have you ever been in love?"

"Never!" The reply was passionately prompt.

Nora looked thoughtful.

"Perhaps you don't know whether you were or not. Girls get so dreadfully mixed up. But I am
sure people--men--have been in love with you."

"Well, of course!" said Connie, with the same emphatic gaiety.

Nora opened her eyes.

"'Of course?' But I know heaps of girls with whom nobody has ever been in love!"

As soon as she was alone, Connie locked her door, and walked restlessly up and down her room,
till by sheer movement she had tamed a certain wild spirit within her let loose by Nora's question.
And as she walked, the grey Oxford walls, the Oxford lilacs and laburnums, vanished from perception.
She was in another scene. Hot sun--gleaming orange-gardens and blue sea--bare-footed, black-eyed
children--and a man beside her, on whom she has been showering epithets that would have shamed--surely!--any
other human being in the world. Tears of excitement are in her eyes; in his a laughing triumph
mixed with astonishment.

"But, now--" she thinks, drawing herself up, erect and tense, her hands behind her head; "now,
I am ready for him. Let him try such ways again--if he dare!"

CHAPTER III

The party given at St. Hubert's on this evening in the Eights week was given in honour of a
famous guest--the Lord Chancellor of the day, one of the strongest members of a strong Government,
of whom St. Hubert's, which had nurtured him through his four academic years, was quite inordinately
proud. It was very seldom that their great nursling was able or willing to revisit the old
nest. But the head of the college, who had been in the same class-list and rowed in the same
boat with the politician, was now Vice-Chancellor of the University; and the greater luminary
had come to shine upon the lesser, by way of heightening the dignity of both. For the man who
has outsoared his fellows likes to remind himself by contrast of his callow days, before the
hungry and fighting impulses had driven him down--a young eaglet--upon the sheepfolds of law
and politics; while to the majority of mankind, even to-day, hero-worship, when it is not too
exacting, is agreeable.

So all Oxford had been bidden. The great hall of St. Hubert's, with its stately portraits and
its emblazoned roof, had been adorned with flowers and royally lit up. From the hills round
Oxford the "line of festal light" made by its Tudor windows, in which gleamed the escutcheons
of three centuries, could have been plainly seen. The High Street was full of carriages, and
on the immaculate grass of the great quadrangle, groups of the guests, the men in academic
costume, the women in the airiest and gayest of summer dresses, stood to watch the arrivals.
The evening was clear and balmy; moonrise and dying day disputed the sky; and against its pale
blue still scratched over with pale pink shreds and wisps of cloud, the grey college walls,
battlemented and flecked with black, rose warmed and transfigured by that infused and golden
summer in which all, Oxford lay bathed. Through open gateways there were visions of green gardens,
girdled with lilacs and chestnuts; and above the quadrangle towered the crocketed spire of
St. Mary's, ethereally wrought, it seemed, in ebony and silver, the broad May moon behind it.
Within the hall, the guests were gathering fast. The dais of the high table was lit by the
famous candelabra bequeathed to the college under Queen Anne; a piano stood ready, and a space
had been left for the college choir who were to entertain the party. In front of the dais in
academic dress stood the Vice-Chancellor, a thin, silver-haired man, with a determined mouth,
such as befitted the champion of a hundred orthodoxies; and beside him his widowed sister,
a nervous and rather featureless lady who was helping him to receive. The guest of the evening
had not yet appeared.

Mr. Sorell, in a master's gown, stood talking with a man, also in a master's gown, but much
older than himself, a man with a singular head--both flat and wide--scanty reddish hair, touched
with grey, a massive forehead, pale blue eyes, and a long pointed chin. Among the bright colours
of so many of the gowns around him--the yellow and red of the doctors of law, the red and black
of the divines, the red and white of the musicians--this man's plain black was conspicuous.
Every one who knew Oxford knew why this eminent scholar and theologian had never become a doctor
of divinity. The University imposes one of her few remaining tests on her D.D's; Mr. Wenlock,
Master of Beaumont, had never been willing to satisfy it, so he remained undoctored. When he
preached the University sermon he preached in the black gown; while every ambitious cleric
who could put a thesis together could flaunt his red and black in the Vice-Chancellor's procession
on Sundays in the University church. The face was one of mingled irony and melancholy, and
there came from it sometimes the strangest cackling laugh.

"Well, you must show me this phoenix," he was saying in a nasal voice to Sorell, who had been
talking eagerly. "Young women of the right sort are rare just now."

"What do you call the right sort, Master?"

"Oh, my judgment doesn't count. I only ask to be entertained."

"Well, talk to her of Rome, and see if you are not pleased."

The Master shrugged his shoulders.

"They can all do it--the clever sort. They know too much about the Forum. They make me wish
sometimes that Lanciani had never been born."

Sorell laughed.

"This girl is not a pedant."

"I take your word. And of course I remember her father. No pedantry there. And all the scholarship
that could be possibly expected from an earl. Ah, is this she?"

For in the now crowded hall, filled with the chatter of many voices, a group was making its
way from the doorway, on one member of which many curious eyes had been already turned. In
front came Mrs. Hooper, spectacled, her small nose in air, the corners of her mouth sharply
drawn down. Then Dr. Ewen, grey-haired, tall and stooping; then Alice, pretty, self-conscious,
provincial, and spoilt by what seemed an inherited poke; and finally a slim and stately young
person in white satin, who carried her head and her long throat with a remarkable freedom and
self-confidence. The head was finely shaped, and the eyes brilliant; but in the rest of the
face the features were so delicate, the mouth, especially, so small and subtle, as to give
a first impression of insignificance. The girl seemed all eyes and neck, and the coils of brown
hair wreathed round the head were disproportionately rich and heavy. The Master observing her
said to himself--"No beauty!" Then she smiled--at Sorell apparently, who was making his way
towards her--and the onlooker hurriedly suspended judgment. He noticed also that no one who
looked at her could help looking again; and that the nervous expression natural to a young
girl, who realises that she is admired but that policy and manners forbid her to show any pleasure
in the fact, was entirely absent.

"She is so used to all her advantages that she forgets them," thought the Master, adding with
an inward smile--"but if we forgot them--perhaps that would be another matter! Yes--she is
like her mother--but taller."

For on that day ten years earlier, when Ella Risborough had taken Oxford by storm, she and
Lord Risborough had found time to look in on the Master for twenty minutes, he and Lord Risborough
having been frequent correspondents on matters of scholarship for some years. And Lady Risborough
had chattered and smiled her way through the Master's lonely house--he had only just been appointed
head of his college and was then unmarried--leaving a deep impression.

"I must make friends with her," he thought, following Ella Risborough's daughter with his eyes.
"There are some gaps to fill up."

He meant in the circle of his girl protégées. For the Master had a curious history, well known
in Oxford. He had married a cousin of his own, much younger than himself; and after five years
they had separated, for reasons undeclared. She was now dead, and in his troubled blue eyes
there were buried secrets no one would ever know. But under what appeared to a stranger to
be a harsh, pedantic exterior the Master carried a very soft heart and an invincible liking
for the society of young women. Oxford about this time was steadily filling with girl students,
who were then a new feature in its life. The Master was a kind of queer patron saint among
them, and to a chosen three or four, an intimate mentor and lasting friend. His sixty odd years,
and the streaks of grey in his red straggling locks, his European reputation as a scholar and
thinker, his old sister, and his quiet house, forbade the slightest breath of scandal in connection
with these girl-friendships. Yet the girls to whom the Master devoted himself, whose essays
he read, whose blunders he corrected, whose schools he watched over, and in whose subsequent
love affairs he took the liveliest interest, were rarely or never plain to look upon. He chose
them for their wits, but also for their faces. His men friends observed it with amusement.
The little notes he wrote them, the birthday presents he sent them--generally some small worn
copy of a French or Latin classic--his coveted invitations, or congratulations, were all marked
by a note of gallantry, stately and old-fashioned like the furniture of his drawing-room, but
quite different from anything he ever bestowed upon the men students of his college.

Of late he had lost two of his chief favourites. One, a delicious creature, with a head of
auburn hair and a real talent for writing verse, had left Oxford suddenly to make a marriage
so foolish that he really could not forgive her or put up with her intolerable husband; and
the other, a muse, with the brow of one and the slenderest hand and foot, whom he and others
were hopefully piloting towards a second class at least--possibly a first--in the Honour Classical
School, had broken down in health, so that her mother and a fussy doctor had hurried her away
to a rest-cure in Switzerland, and thereby slit her academic life and all her chances of fame.
Both had been used to come--independently--for the Master was in his own, way far too great
a social epicure to mix his pleasures--to tea on Sundays; to sit on one side of a blazing fire,
while the Master sat on the other, a Persian cat playing chaperon on the rug between, and the
book-lined walls of the Master's most particular sanctum looking down upon them; while in the
drawing-room beyond, Miss Wenlock, at the tea-table, sat patiently waiting till her domestic
god should declare the seance over, allow her to make tea, and bring in the young and honoured
guest. And now both charmers had vanished from the scene and had left no equals behind. The
Master, who possessed the same sort of tact in training young women that Lord Melbourne showed
in educating the girl-Queen, was left without his most engaging occupation.

Ah!--that good fellow, Sorell, was bringing her up to him.

"Master, Lady Constance would like to be introduced to you."

The Master was immensely flattered. Why should she wish to be introduced to such an old fogey?
But there she was, smiling at him.

"You knew my father. I am sure you did!"

His elderly heart was touched, his taste captured at once. Sorell had engineered it all perfectly.
His description of the girl had fired the Master; and his sketch of the Master in the girl's
ear, as a kind of girlhood's arbiter, had amused and piqued her. "Yes, do introduce me! Will
he ever ask me to tea? I should be so alarmed!"

It was all settled in a few minutes. Sunday was to see her introduction to the Master's inner
circle, which met in summer, not between books and a blazing fire, but in the small college
garden hidden amid the walls of Beaumont. Sorell was to bring her. The Master did not even
go through the form of inviting either Mrs. Hooper or Miss Hooper. In all such matters he was
a chartered libertine and did what he pleased.

Then he watched her in what seemed something of a triumphal progress through the crowded hall.
He saw the looks of the girl students from the newly-organised women's colleges--as she passed--a
little askance and chill; he watched a Scotch metaphysical professor, with a fiery face set
in a mass of flaming hair and beard, which had won him the nickname from his philosophical
pupils of "the devil in a mist," forcing an introduction to her; he saw the Vice-Chancellor
graciously unbending, and man after man come up among the younger dons to ask Sorell to present
them. She received it all with a smiling and nonchalant grace, perfectly at her ease, it seemed,
and ready to say the right thing to young and old. "It's the training they get--the young women
of her sort--that does it," thought the Master. "They are in society from their babyhood. Our
poor, battered aristocracy--the Radicals have kicked away all its natural supports, and left
it dans l'air; but it can still teach manners and the art to please. The undergraduates, however,
seem shy of her."

