If the Addition of humane Testimony concerning the Practice of Churches in former or later
Ages might have any influence to establish the Consciences of those who are doubtful in this
Matter, I might acquaint them that the Churches of Germany and the Eastland Churches, use many
Divine Hymns which are compos'd on several Subjects of the Christian Religion, without any
Pretence to extraordinary Gifts. The Church of England approves this Practice, as appears in
those Spiritual Songs at the End of the old Translation of the Psalm-Book, and some Churches
among the Dissenters. The Christians of the first Ages were wont to meet together on a Day
appointed before it was Light, and to speak a Song to Christ as to God. Thus Pliny the Roman
testifies in a Letter to Trajan the Emperour in the Beginning of the second Century. Tertullian,
who flourish'd about the Beginning of the Third Century, relating the Manner of Administration
of the Lord's Supper, asserts That after they had eat and drank what was sufficient for those
that must worship God by Night, &c. Every one was urged to sing unto God publickly either out
of the holy Scriptures, or according to their own Genius and Ability, Apol. C. 39. Origen,
who flourish'd in the Middle of the Third Century, speaks of singing Hymns or Praise to the
Father in or by Christ in good Rhime, Tune, Metre and Harmony. Origen de Orat. Sect. 6. Eusebius,
B. 7. C. 19. quotes Dionisius writing against Nepos thus, Altho I heartily love Nepos for his
Faith, his Study of Knowledge and the holy Scriptures, as well as {274} for various Psalms
and Hymns composed by him, which are used to this Day by some Brethren, yet, &c. In the Acts
of the Council of Antioch mention'd by Eusebius, B.7. C.30. It was one of the Accusations of
Paulus Samosatenus the Heretick Bishop of Antioch, that he abolished those Psalms which were
wont to be sung to the Honour of the Lord Jesus Christ as novel and compos'd by Modern Authors,
and that he appointed Women on Easter Day in the Middle of the Church to sing Psalms in his
Praise. And in the Fragment of an anonymous Author extant in Eusebius we find the Heresy of
Artemon, who denied the Divinity of Christ, confuted not only by the Scriptures and the Writings
of the precedent Fathers, but also by the Psalms and Hymns of the Brethren which were formerly
compos'd by them, wherein they sung Praises to the WORD of God, declaring Christ to be God.
Such a private composed Hymn was that which Clemens Alexandrinus mentions as one commonly known
among the Christians in his Days, beginning Kaire Phos, or Hail Light. Spanheim in his sixth
Chapter of the fourth Century of his Christian History speaks thus, Besides Hymns and Songs,
and private Psalms, of which there was a great Number in their solemn Assemblies, the Psalm
Book of David was brought into the Western Church in this Age in the Time of Damasus and Ambrose;
but in the Eastern Church the singing of David 's Psalter by Antiphona's or Responses was brought
in by Flavianus Antiochenus. The Use of Psalms compos'd by private Persons seems not to be
forbidden in the Church till the Council of Laodicea in the fourth Century.

CONCLUSION.

