A Broader Mission for Liberal Education...

Baccalaureate Address, Delivered in Agricultural College Chapel, Sunday, June 9, 1901.

By.... J. H. WORST, LL. D. President. D.

AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE P. O., North Dakota.

In America we recognize no aristocracy except that of genius or of character. Our countrymen
are all citizens. Our government was founded upon the principle that "all men are created free
and equal" and though intellectual endowments differ widely in individuals, yet special privileges
are accorded to no one as a birthright. Therefore the college graduate, as well as any other
aspirant, must carve his way to fame and fortune by energy and perseverance, or lose his opportunity
in the tremendous activities going on about him. His only advantage is superior training which
must nevertheless be pitted against practical minds in strenuous rivalry for every desirable
thing he would accomplish. The mere fact of education is considered no badge of merit. Education
represents power, but until it manifests itself in action, it is merely static, not dynamic,
potential, not actual. It conveys to its recipient no self-acting machinery which, without
lubricant or engineer will reel off success or impress mankind, as a matter of course.

The question is no longer asked by practical men "what does a man know" but "what can he do?"
Knowing and doing have thus become so intimately associated by common consent as to be inseparable;
for knowing without doing is indolence and doing without knowing is waste of energy. The former
is sinful, the latter wasteful. For many years progressive educators have been striving against
the culture-alone theory and advocating the education of the whole man--hand as well as head,
body as well as mind. As a result the ancient educational structure is pretty well broken down,
and the erstwhile curriculum has become a reminiscence. Many wealthy parents still educate
their children for the larger pleasure which they believe education of the old type will afford
them in life, but parents generally have come to look upon life as a period of intense activity
rather than a brief round of pleasure, and hence provide an education for their children that
will fit them for the every day demands that duty or necessity may make upon them. Since it
is a matter of common observation that wealth is easily dissipated, especially when inherited,
farseeing parents prefer an education for their children that is adapted to some useful end
rather than the education that is largely ornamental or fashionable.

The vicissitudes of life are many. Fortune is fickle and but few young people can hope to command
perpetual leisure even should their bad judgment make such a thing desirable. There can never
be real independence of thought and action apart from one's conscious ability to cope with
others on equal terms in any human emergency. The young man who rejoices in the provident hoardings
of his ancestors which exempt him from strenuous exertion on his own part has but a small mission
in life. Work is the normal condition of man. The stern necessity that compels him to labor,
to think and to plan, lifts him into the pleasurable atmosphere of usefulness and imparts zeal
and ambition to his energies. There can be no "excellence without great labor", and "hard work
is only another name for genius."

A young man cannot begin life with a richer heritage than good health, good habits and a liberal
education--an education that imparts culture to his mind and power to his body. If he should
never have occasion to use his hands in some useful vocation, the training they have received
will never prove burdensome. On the other hand, the fact of being in possession of reserve
powers will prove a source of pleasure. It will dispel many a dark cloud and remove positive
forebodings of possible want. The world is strewn with the wrecks of men who inherited fortunes
before they had developed the mental poise or business experience necessary to estimate money
at its true value. If they had earned their money by honest effort they would not have fallen
into habits that led to unbridled extravagance and ultimate disgrace. The inheritance of unearned
wealth quite frequently proves a curse rather than a blessing.

God never intended, however, that parents should provide a property inheritance for their children
that will deprive them of the natural advantages which reasonable labor and its restraining
influence afford both body and mind. Parental drudgery and self-denial for the purpose of relieving
children from the necessity of wholesome effort is mistaken generosity. It makes parent and
child alike fall short of the high purposes for which life is given. For life is intended for
more important purposes than mere money-getting or the pursuit of objects from which man is
utterly divorced at death. Poor indeed must be the soul if, at death, it must part from all
it loved in life. But this frenzy of excitement in which parents live in order that their children
may be heirs leaves no time for the consideration of higher and better things. How much more
lamentable, too, is such striving in the light of the fact that those who are to be benefited
by these inheritances are in reality harmed and checked in their development. Said Senator
Dolliver: "If I had a son and $100,000, I would keep the two apart."

Every man owes a duty to God, to his country, to his family and to himself. To discharge these
obligations honestly, fearlessly and with credit should be his earnest purpose. No ambition
should be entertained that does not embrace these fundamental duties and no career should be
considered worthy that even underrates their sanctity. The fact that men occasionally become
prominent in business, social and political affairs by subordinating conscience and character
to position or gain should not swerve a young man from the strict path of rectitude. Victories
won by strategy or injustice, whether in business or politics, seldom remain permanent and
never afford substantial enjoyment. Society has but little use for the man who wears a mask.

In this busy world there is honest work for every man to perform. Civilization has multiplied
human wants and also developed the ingenuity necessary to gratify them. But it requires labor.
Not such, however, as was performed by the slave, but skilled labor--labor where the hand is
guided by an intellect, quickened by the agency of class-room and laboratory for the task assigned;
labor, such as will reflect credit upon and elevate a gentleman. For there is no honest work
a gentleman may not do. Work elevates a man. It perpetuates the manhood he inherited, which
was built up by labor and thought in the flesh and blood of his ancestors. The necessity for
labor, therefore is heaven's blessing and to repudiate it is to invite physical and mental decay.

Liberal education should take a far wider range than has ever been assigned to it and exert
an influence affecting matter as well as mind. It has a double mission, that of facilitating
earning power to provide for physical comforts and also to prepare them to live.

In a republic where every able bodied citizen is an equal factor and where one is possessed
of mutual privileges and obligations, society demands that each shall do his part. To be consistent
society also should afford equal educational facilities for all; facilities having as direct
bearing upon vocation as upon profession, and for those desiring it, an educational training
as liberal for manual pursuits as is required for law, medicine or theology.

The standard of manhood must advance to meet the new conditions and the tremendous responsibilities
of the century we have entered upon. Within the present boundaries of the United States there
exists the requisite area, soil fertility and other resources sufficient to support a government
of five hundred million people. Our patriotism, therefore, must be directed toward realizing
the largest possible destiny for our country. We should strive so to conserve the natural resources
of the nation that with six or seven times our present population there will be no abridgment
of opportunity to make a living and to fulfill the purpose for which life was created. The
experiment of self-government will have to withstand severer strains in the future than in
the past unless our education is as democratic as our politics. The educational energies of
the nation must be so diffused as to uplift all classes, reducing to the smallest possible
minimum the army of unskilled workmen. Through skill and training, labor must become pleasure.
Steam and electricity must take the place of human energy, lessen waste of raw material and
elevate the hand that guides the machine.

The present generation is sinfully extravagant. Forests, mines and soil fertility are wasted
with wanton prodigality. We speak of our coal deposits and oil and gas wells as inexhaustible.
We simply mean that it will be impossible for this and probably for the next generation to
exhaust them. But coal mines are not inexhaustible. Oil and gas wells are problematical as
to the length of time they will yield their products. To such an extent have the forests been
destroyed that substitutes for timber are already sought for building purposes and manufactures.
Timber that would be worth millions of dollars to our grand children is burned in a day to
provide a sheep pasture on some western mountain. We seem determined to waste and destroy what
we cannot consume or turn into ready money.

European countries abound in sad memories of wasted soil fertility and forest destruction.
Slowly but surely they are rebuilding and rehabilitating worn out tracts at tremendous expense.
The ruin which ignorance accomplished with alacrity, education is slowly and painfully undoing.
Americans should heed the lessons of history and profit by the mistakes of other countries.
The production of food, clothing and other necessaries of life which is of vital importance
to a nation, cannot, with safety, be left to blind forces or to revered but ignorant traditions.
For it is a singular fact that science had quite as much to do with ridding agriculture and
the manufacture of commodities of debilitating superstitions that not only retarded progress
but were positively injurious to both man and material, as it had to do with the introduction
of rational ideas. The rapid increase of the world's population and the very general occupancy
of arable lands throughout the world, presupposes that the maximum of food production will
soon be reached. A liberal and general diffusion of scientific information among agriculturists
alone can augment the productive power of the soil and at the same time conserve its fertility
for the support of future generations. This subject demands a real awakening of public sentiment
as to its importance. Provision must be made for thorough training that will direct the labor
which produces the fruits of the earth. Thus to broaden the scope of liberal education it must
be divested of all aristocratic limitations and rendered sufficiently democratic to meet the
wants of the sons of toil.

The question naturally arises, will the general introduction of science studies in American
schools tend to lower the standard of scholarship? If so, will the more democratic and hence
utilitarian influence it exerts, compensate for the change? To the first question the classical
schools will quite generally and naturally give an affirmative answer. But the answer must
not be considered as conclusive in settling the question even if believed to be true, in view
of the contention that surrounds the second question. More than scholarship is needed to direct
and control the affairs of men. Mere scholarship--book-learning--is seldom effective in the
solution of intricate national and economic problems. For profound judgment and constructive
ability, such as frequently become imperative in great crises are qualities which are not evolved
through classical investigations. They are born rather of experience and contact with the rugged
every day affairs of life. To exert a guiding influence in the affairs of state one must feel
the throb of living forces and come in touch with the great heart of humanity.

The study of ancient languages has long held the honored place in the universities of Europe
and America as peculiarly essential to mature scholarship. They answered the purpose intended,
for the sciences were unknown or in the infancy of their development and there was but little
besides the ancient languages with which to train the student mind. But should they dominate
the curricula of the twentieth century? Do they meet the requirements of this intensely practical
age?

Whatever may be said against the materialistic tendency of the present time, the scholarship
of the idealists at least did not retard its growth. Materialism abounds everywhere at present.
The object sought by introducing scientific in lieu of classical studies in some of the higher
institutions of learning is that facilities may be afforded the children of the productive
classes, such as they can accept and which will have a directing influence upon labor. Whether
such change will tend to increase or lessen materialistic tendencies, remains to be seen. The
conditions will certainly be made no worse. For to balance educational forces and more nearly
to, equalize educational opportunities can only result in improvement. Equilibrium of intelligence
tends to unify and harmonize American interests and to strengthen patriotism. And should liberal
scientific education thus extend its beneficence to all conditions of men, especially to those
hitherto unprovided with facilities for preparation for their vocations, we can at least endure
the innovation, for it does not aim at the impairment of educational opportunities so long
maintained for students able or desirous to take classical training. Some of the foremost educators
of the day admit that the study of the sciences possess as much disciplinary value as that
of the ancient languages, and the information obtained, even though incidental to the culture
sought after is of inestimable value in the practical affairs of life. The fact that but few
instructors are prepared to teach the sciences as creditably as they are to teach the ancient
languages, does not weaken the claims set up for scientific education. In the opinion of many
sound educators, the cultural advantages of the dead languages, all things considered, are
received at the expense of more important subjects. Says The World's Work: "The easier and
better way of retaining, restoring and greatly broadening the culture-studies of a college
course is to recognize the culture of our own language and literature. A broader and saner
and more humane and thorough and loving study of the literature of our own race is the obvious
way out of the dilemma. And it is more than an escape from a dilemma. It is a better means
of broadening and deepening our culture than we have over utilized or tried."

The ancient classics as taught in high schools are of but little cultural value. Not one student
in a hundred reaches the degree of attainment that presupposes a positive benefit. If the time
were devoted to acquiring a more thorough understanding of our mother tongue it would be more
creditable. To give time to translating good Latin into poor English is paying an extravagant
homage to a fetish. Training in the ancient languages must be long-continued and far-reaching,
or it seems to be of little value. The needs of culture cannot be satisfied by mere discipline
any more than they can be satisfied by merely utilitarian subjects. But where the training
is essentially practical and directly helpful in discharging the highest of all human duties,
that of providing the necessaries of life, while at the same time affording abundant opportunity
for the study of the language and literature of our own race, the blending thus of cultural
and practical training should possess a clientage immeasurably larger, because more useful,
than where only the purely cultural is sought. Where the head is educated away from the hand
and the number fitted for ministerial and professional duties far overruns the demand for service,
a heavy burden is imposed upon the producing masses. At the same time thousands are graduated
every year for positions that have only a prospective existence. The professions are overcrowded
to a degree that challenges the sanity of the country's educational energies. And were it not
for the gravity of the theme, the strenuous defense that is set up for the system and the efforts
put forth every day to still further augment the number of neophytes for professional honors,
it would seem ridiculous.

But why this overcrowding? Because the atmosphere of the professional institution fills the
student with prejudice against physical labor. It is menial. His education has fitted him for
something nobler than to toil in the field or in the work-shop. Institutional rivalry also
does its share, sending out alluring advertisements and thus filling the college classes with
recruits from the farms and from the homes of labor with candidates for positions in life of
greater respectability than their parents were able to enjoy. The seeds of prejudice against
rural life and manual labor are often scattered in the country schools by teachers innocently
imbued with the "ideal condition." The fascinations and allurements of the city readily impress
themselves upon the youthful mind, and the fact that facilities for liberal education were
not offered for the relief of the toiling millions, unless to transform them into a different
social element, naturally turned the eyes of those who were able to obtain a liberal education
toward the cities.

It remained for the federal government to attempt to turn the tide that was setting too strongly
toward urban life. The government's remedy is not prohibitive legislation, but what should
have been afforded without direct government interference--a liberal education with a direct
bearing upon agriculture and the mechanic arts for those who naturally desire to fit themselves
for such pursuits; to place the farmer and the artisan upon an intellectual and social plane
that will attract rather than repel those who would develop the country's resources. At the
same time no effort should be made, for the sake of patronage or for institutional advantage
to influence a student from the calling his heart honestly indicates as the one for which natural
taste and native ability, quickened by educational training, fits him. The thing to be avoided,
rather, is the inculcation of prejudice against useful vocations and desirable pursuits as
being undignified and consequently beneath the notice or ambition of a gentleman.

Do scientific inquiry and scientific knowledge generally diffused augment human greed? Do they
tend to promote avarice? Most certainly they do not. The man of science can see so much beyond--so
much of beauty and design that even the drudgery of toil is forgotten in contemplation of the
forces which he aids or controls.

No thoughts can arise above the thoughts of God as written in the growing plant or painted
upon the bow that arches the sky. To the man of science, even the raw material which he reconstructs
into useful commodities contains a revelation in every grain and fiber. The swelling bud, the
opening flower, the growing plant, the greeting shower, each is a chapter from Nature's open
book, full of inspiration. Beyond them and above them he sees the hand and hears the voice
of God. And since he lives and works thus close to Nature's throbbing heart and in close communion
with forces that link the finite to the Infinite, who dares to spurn the dignity of his toil
or characterize his associations as menial.

To live is man's first duty; to live well his privilege. But the world has its severe as well
as delightful aspects. The divine law which commands man to subdue and replenish the earth
is not less mandatory than that other law which commands him to "lay up treasure in heaven."
And just as material wants antedate the soul's awakening or reason's dawning, so throughout
all life, physical well-being precedes and contributes to the growth of the higher life.

But we may hope for better things. We may, some of us, live even to see liberal education divest
herself of exclusive restrictions and eighteenth century idealism and walk hand in hand with
twentieth century progress; this will be when the "overwhelming influence of established routine"
shall give way to practical knowledge and love for the ornamental in education shall no longer
override the useful.

E. P. Powel, in The Arena for April, most beautifully and expressively contemplates the schools
which are to be. He says: "I will picture what I believe to be the common school of the twentieth
century. There will be handsome schoolhouses in abundance, placed in the center of large gardens.
The children will study books half a day, and things the other half. The brain will not get
any more training than the hands. Manual culture which is already a part of the school life
of a few towns, will be a part of school life everywhere. The school will have its shops and
its gardens--and to use tools will be the chief end of culture. Man got away from the monkey
by his power to make and use tools. He goes back to the ape when his hands have to be cased
in gloves and his brain is ashamed of decent labor. In these school-gardens botany will be
applied to horticulture. In the shops our boys and girls will learn to create things. The trouble
with education now is that it divorces knowledge from work--the brains from the hands. In the
twentieth century the glory of American education will also be a thorough knowledge of economics,
civics and history, applied to good citizenship. Colleges will surely be a part of the common
school system, and just as full of modern life. I believe we shall see the day when boys and
girls who are in the common school together; without damage, can be co-educated in all other
grades of school life. The farmer will then not have a separate and specific college for agriculture,
while the rest have one for 'mental culture;' nor will college boys in those days be ashamed
to look ahead to farming as a profession. There is no occupation that requires so much wit
and educated tact, and so much positive knowledge as farming. When we get the schools, we shall
get a style of farming that will be as keenly intellectual as our present style is wasteful
and unintelligent."

And yet, strange as it may appear, the mission and purpose of an agricultural college must
be constantly defended in a state almost wholly devoted to agriculture.

In conclusion I quote from Herbert Spencer again: "How to live?--that is the essential question
for us.

        Transcribers Note: The following words were changed from the
        author's original spelling:

        problemetical changed to problematical
        neophites changed to neophytes

