We come now to education. The colored race being here, I assume that its education, with the
probabilities this involves of its elevation, is a duty as well as a necessity. I speak both
of the inherent justice there is in giving every human being the chance of bettering his condition
and increasing his happiness that lies in education--unless our whole theory of modern life
is wrong--and also of the political and social danger there is in a degraded class numerically
strong. Granted integral membership in a body politic, education is a necessity. I am aware
of the danger of half education, of that smattering of knowledge which only breeds conceit,
adroitness, and a consciousness of physical power, without due responsibility and moral restraint.
Education makes a race more powerful both for evil and for good. I see the danger that many
apprehend. And the outlook, with any amount of education, would be hopeless, not only as regards
the negro and those in neighborhood relations with him, if education should not bring with
it thrift, sense of responsibility as a citizen, and virtue. What the negro race under the
most favorable conditions is capable of remains to be shown; history does not help us much
to determine thus far. It has always been a long pull for any race to rise out of primitive
conditions; but I am sure for its own sake, and for the sake of the republic where it dwells,
every thoughtful person must desire the most speedy intellectual and moral development possible
of the African race. And I mean as a race.

Some distinguished English writers have suggested, with approval, that the solution of the
race problem in this country is fusion, and I have even heard discouraged Southerners accept
it as a possibility. The result of their observation of the amalgamation of races and colors
in Egypt, in Syria, and Mexico, must be very different from mine. When races of different color
mingle there is almost invariably loss of physical stamina, and the lower moral qualities of
each are developed in the combination. No race that regards its own future would desire it.
The absorption theory as applied to America is, it seems to me, chimerical.

But to return to education. It should always be fitted to the stage of development. It should
always mean discipline, the training of the powers and capacities. The early pioneers who planted
civilization on the Watauga, the Holston, the Kentucky, the Cumberland, had not much broad
learning--they would not have been worse if they had had more but they had courage, they were
trained in self-reliance, virile common sense, and good judgment, they had inherited the instinct
and capacity of self-government, they were religious, with all their coarseness they had the
fundamental elements of nobility, the domestic virtues, and the public spirit needed in the
foundation of states. Their education in all the manly arts and crafts of the backwoodsman
fitted them very well for the work they had to do. I should say that the education of the colored
race in America should be fundamental. I have not much confidence in an ornamental top-dressing
of philosophy, theology, and classic learning upon the foundation of an unformed and unstable
mental and moral condition. Somehow, character must be built up, and character depends upon
industry, upon thrift, upon morals, upon correct ethical perceptions. To have control of one's
powers, to have skill in labor, so that work in any occupation shall be intelligent, to have
self-respect, which commonly comes from trained capacity, to know how to live, to have a clean,
orderly house, to be grounded in honesty and the domestic virtues,--these are the essentials
of progress. I suppose that the education to produce these must be an elemental and practical
one, one that fits for the duties of life and not for some imaginary sphere above them.

