It was not long after the barrage began before the Germans began to throw star shells. These
were for the purpose of lighting up No Man's Land. They are thrown to a height of several hundred
feet, and as they slowly descend, they burn a brilliant white light. These added to the brilliancy
of the fireworks. The object of the Germans in throwing these star shells was to keep No Man's
Land lighted so as to be ready to repel our attack. They knew, of course, that our barrage
was to be followed up with a charge, but they did not know at what hour it was to be launched.
The star shells were thrown so that they could not be taken unawares in the dark.

Far behind the line in Fritz' territory we could see our shells bursting. The telltale flash
meant that the Huns were getting a dose of severe medicine, though we could at that moment
only guess at the destruction that was being wrought. Later we were to see the havoc worked
by our accurate artillerymen.

The object of this demoralizing barrage was to break up the morale of the Germans and in general
to pave the way for our infantry charge that was to follow. It shattered the German trenches,
plowed through their barbed wire entanglements and kept those who survived in a state of great
nervous tension, because they knew a great charge was to follow. Our guns were also trained
on such objects as headquarters, railroads, heavy artillery emplacements, cross roads, ammunition
dumps, aviation hangars, etc., from information that had previously been obtained by the Flash
and Sound Ranging sections. The heavy artillery did great damage far in the rear. The medium
artillery, not having the range of the heavy guns, did not reach so far back with its fire,
but demoralized things generally wherever its shells hit. It also had for its purpose the breaking
up of any attack that might be planned as a counter offensive. The light artillery is of smaller
caliber and fires more rapidly. This did wonderful execution and was a great help in winning
the war.

It was exactly 6 o'clock when the demoralizing barrage stopped, and it was followed by a protecting
barrage. There is quite a difference between a demoralizing barrage and a protecting barrage.
A demoralizing barrage is just what its name signifies, a demoralizing rain of shells upon
the enemy. A protecting barrage is for the purpose of protecting the infantry as it charges
into the enemy's lines and it is raised slowly as the infantry advances so as to keep over
the heads of the marching soldiers. As soon as the protecting barrage was fired in this drive,
the first waves of infantry went over the top.

Most people have a misconception of what going over the top is. The prevailing idea is that
a great mass of troops rush over the top and into the German trenches. What really occurs is
this: The men climb out of the trenches at an ordinary pace in a thin line from six to ten
feet apart. This is followed in a few seconds by another thin line about the same distance
apart, and then another, and so on until there are thousands of men advancing over No Man's
Land, but they are scattered over a large area. The object in scattering them is to reduce
losses in case an enemy shell falls among them. I have seen a shell fall among men advancing
this way without hitting any of them, and I have also seen several fall from a single shell.
Another reason for these thin waves is the fact that when advancing in this formation the men
offer a poorer target to the machine guns of the enemy, while in mass formation, a machine
gun could mow down in a short time a whole company.

Just ahead of the waves of infantry in this drive, wiggled the tanks. These cumbersome, awkward,
ugly but efficient machines were of great help to the foot soldiers. They not only made a path
through the barbed wire entanglements that the artillery had not destroyed, but they hunted
out and destroyed German machine gun nests, which were so dangerous to the infantry. The tanks
had a very difficult task and they performed it well. Too much credit cannot be given to the
tank crews. They were brave, skillful and good fighters. It is true they were in a measure
protected behind the steel walls of the machine, but, on the other hand, they were exposed
to heavy fire, it was hot and disagreeable within and in case of being struck by a shell or
running onto a mine, the horrors were worse than those to which other fighters were exposed.
The greatest danger was that of being trapped within and burned to death in case a shell hits
the gasoline tank; a number were destroyed in that manner. So I give full credit to the tank
men for their heroic services--they braced the greatest dangers without knowing such a word
as "fear."

As our boys went over the top they were given the protection of an aerial squadron. Only those
who were advancing toward the Hun lines on that day, with full realization of their duties
and their dangers, know what a feeling of protection these hovering planes gave us. They flew
low, frequently just over the heads of the men, and poured their deadly machine gun fire into
such of the Hun trenches as the artillery had not destroyed--and, no matter how thoroughly
the artillery does its work, there is always plenty left for the other branches of the army
to do. These daring airmen also dropped fishtail bombs on the Huns. These men were the bravest
of the brave. They had the courage, grit and combative qualities of the lion. They are constantly
in great danger. They are fired upon from below by enemy anti-aircraft guns, and frequently
from above by enemy planes. They are also exposed, when they fly low, to rifle fire and machine
guns and machines are frequently brought down by such fire. During a drive of this kind they
also face the danger of running into their own barrage and are restricted as to the area in
which they may manoeuver. We cannot give these fearless men of the flying corps too much praise
for their work. While men in all branches of the American army were brave and all did their
duty, I think the airmen, like the tank men, deserve a special meed of praise for their daring,
and when I say this, I intend in no way to detract from the bravery of the men in any other
branch of the service.

The Flash Service, to which I belonged, was not a fighting unit. While we were heavily armed,
so that we could defend ourselves and fight if necessary, we were not, in the strict sense
of the word, combatants. It was more important for us to keep the lines of communication in
working order, to give the artillery the range on certain objects, to locate machine gun nests
and direct fire upon them so they could be destroyed, than to fight, for there were sufficient
numbers in other branches of the army for that purpose. But we did not overlook an opportunity
to help our cause, and it is with a great deal of pleasure that I tell of a machine gun nest
of thirteen men captured by three of the men of our detachment, though of a different post
from mine. It was during the early morning of the first day of the drive. It should be stated
that the American infantry advanced so rapidly that it frequently went right by carefully concealed
machine gun nests. This was just what the Germans wanted them to do, because they opened fire
from the rear and rained bullets on our men from two sides. The three men that captured the
nest of which I am telling were just in back of the second wave of infantry that went over
the top, following it up for the purpose of establishing our line of communication from front
to rear. They came upon this nest as the Huns were preparing to fire at our advancing men.
When they first located the nest the Americans had their revolvers carefully wrapped in greased
coils and in their holsters, not expecting to use them--the greased coils being to keep the
weapons from rusting from the dampness of the trenches. These resourceful American boys lost
no time, however, in getting their weapons ready for use, and by a quick and intrepid manoeuver,
they approached the Huns, covered them with their revolvers, and compelled them to surrender
without so much as firing a shot. The Huns were taken to the rear, and their gun, a Vicker,
became a trophy of war.

It was about 9 o'clock in the morning while we were advancing that I came upon a petite French
tank, which had run upon a Hun mine and had been completely destroyed. The machine was reduced
to a pile of junk, and it was hardly believable that a mine would work such destruction. The
heavy iron was torn in shreds, and while we knew it was a tank and we knew what had happened
to it, it was now nothing but scrap iron.

Just about that time the infantry was capturing thousands of Hun prisoners--men who had occupied
the front German trenches and who were overcome by our boys. As I was advancing, I saw 3,700
German prisoners marching to the rear, and as it was still early in the day, you may know with
what thoroughness our boys were doing their work. Among these prisoners was a German officer
who knew the location of the mines that had been planted to destroy tanks, bridges, roads,
etc. The Americans were not long in learning this and they compelled him to point out these
locations. Under his guidance, 52 mines were destroyed. These might have done great damage
to American tanks and soldiers if they had not been set off. As it was, they opened a pathway
through which our tanks passed without danger.

As we went forward into the territory that had been held by the Huns, we could see the results
of our own work, that is to say, we could see objects upon which we had given the range to
the artillery, completely destroyed. It was gratifying to note that our work and the work of
the artillery had been so accurate. Objects, such as headquarters, railroad tracks, cross roads,
that we had located through our strong glasses before the drive, and upon which we had given
the distance to the gunners, had been shattered by direct hits, speaking wonders for the marksmanship
of the American gunners. At some places we saw scores of men and animals that had been killed
by shell fire; at others we saw trenches that had been as completely wiped out as though they
never existed; we also saw ammunition dumps that had been hit and set afire and which burned
steadily for several days. These were exceedingly dangerous places, and we kept a good distance
from them until they burned completely out, as the exploding shells threw flying metal for
a distance of a hundred yards or more. We also came across railroad trains that had been hit
as they were proceeding, and so badly crippled that they had to be abandoned by the enemy,
later to be captured by us.

We advanced about ten kilometers the first day, and then our men were directed to dig in. Here
we met with our first real resistance. The enemy counter attacked during the night, but his
charges were finally broken up by our accurate fire.

Our advance that day had been rapid and had penetrated deeply into the enemy line. This had
been possible because of the rapidity with which our supplies had been brought up. The roads
for the most part were not badly cut up, and those that were damaged were quickly repaired
by our engineers. Bridges had been hastily built, obstructions removed from highways, and shell
holes filled in so that traffic could go on almost uninterruptedly. This made it possible for
all necessary munitions to move forward.

