"But the minute the pals see that thief slide into the bunch of sycamores, they jumped out
of the bushes and slid in after him.

"They fell on him and clubbed him to death.

"Yes, for all he screamed and howled so, they never had no mercy on him, but clubbed him to
death. And two men that was running along the road heard him yelling that way, and they made
a rush into the sycamore bunch--which was where they was bound for, anyway--and when the pals
saw them they lit out and the two new men after them a-chasing them as tight as they could
go. But only a minute or two--then these two new men slipped back very quiet into the sycamores.

"THEN what did they do? I will tell you what they done. They found where the thief had got
his disguise out of his carpet-sack to put on; so one of them strips and puts on that disguise."

Tom waited a little here, for some more "effect"--then he says, very deliberate:

"The man that put on that dead man's disguise was--JUBITER DUNLAP!"

"Great Scott!" everybody shouted, all over the house, and old Uncle Silas he looked perfectly
astonished.

"Yes, it was Jubiter Dunlap. Not dead, you see. Then they pulled off the dead man's boots and
put Jubiter Dunlap's old ragged shoes on the corpse and put the corpse's boots on Jubiter Dunlap.
Then Jubiter Dunlap stayed where he was, and the other man lugged the dead body off in the
twilight; and after midnight he went to Uncle Silas's house, and took his old green work-robe
off of the peg where it always hangs in the passage betwixt the house and the kitchen and put
it on, and stole the long-handled shovel and went off down into the tobacker field and buried
the murdered man."

He stopped, and stood half a minute. Then--"And who do you reckon the murdered man WAS? It
was--JAKE Dunlap, the long-lost burglar!"

"Great Scott!"

"And the man that buried him was--BRACE Dunlap, his brother!"

"Great Scott!"

"And who do you reckon is this mowing idiot here that's letting on all these weeks to be a
deef and dumb stranger? It's--JUBITER Dunlap!"

My land, they all busted out in a howl, and you never see the like of that excitement since
the day you was born. And Tom he made a jump for Jubiter and snaked off his goggles and his
false whiskers, and there was the murdered man, sure enough, just as alive as anybody! And
Aunt Sally and Benny they went to hugging and crying and kissing and smothering old Uncle Silas
to that degree he was more muddled and confused and mushed up in his mind than he ever was
before, and that is saying considerable. And next, people begun to yell:

"Tom Sawyer! Tom Sawyer! Shut up everybody, and let him go on! Go on, Tom Sawyer!"

Which made him feel uncommon bully, for it was nuts for Tom Sawyer to be a public character
that-away, and a hero, as he calls it. So when it was all quiet, he says:

"There ain't much left, only this. When that man there, Bruce Dunlap, had most worried the
life and sense out of Uncle Silas till at last he plumb lost his mind and hit this other blatherskite,
his brother, with a club, I reckon he seen his chance. Jubiter broke for the woods to hide,
and I reckon the game was for him to slide out, in the night, and leave the country. Then Brace
would make everybody believe Uncle Silas killed him and hid his body somers; and that would
ruin Uncle Silas and drive HIM out of the country--hang him, maybe; I dunno. But when they
found their dead brother in the sycamores without knowing him, because he was so battered up,
they see they had a better thing; disguise BOTH and bury Jake and dig him up presently all
dressed up in Jubiter's clothes, and hire Jim Lane and Bill Withers and the others to swear
to some handy lies--which they done. And there they set, now, and I told them they would be
looking sick before I got done, and that is the way they're looking now.

"Well, me and Huck Finn here, we come down on the boat with the thieves, and the dead one told
us all about the di'monds, and said the others would murder him if they got the chance; and
we was going to help him all we could. We was bound for the sycamores when we heard them killing
him in there; but we was in there in the early morning after the storm and allowed nobody hadn't
been killed, after all. And when we see Jubiter Dunlap here spreading around in the very same
disguise Jake told us HE was going to wear, we thought it was Jake his own self--and he was
goo-gooing deef and dumb, and THAT was according to agreement.

"Well, me and Huck went on hunting for the corpse after the others quit, and we found it. And
was proud, too; but Uncle Silas he knocked us crazy by telling us HE killed the man. So we
was mighty sorry we found the body, and was bound to save Uncle Silas's neck if we could; and
it was going to be tough work, too, because he wouldn't let us break him out of prison the
way we done with our old nigger Jim.

"I done everything I could the whole month to think up some way to save Uncle Silas, but I
couldn't strike a thing. So when we come into court to-day I come empty, and couldn't see no
chance anywheres. But by and by I had a glimpse of something that set me thinking--just a little
wee glimpse--only that, and not enough to make sure; but it set me thinking hard--and WATCHING,
when I was only letting on to think; and by and by, sure enough, when Uncle Silas was piling
out that stuff about HIM killing Jubiter Dunlap, I catched that glimpse again, and this time
I jumped up and shut down the proceedings, because I KNOWED Jubiter Dunlap was a-setting here
before me. I knowed him by a thing which I seen him do--and I remembered it. I'd seen him do
it when I was here a year ago."

He stopped then, and studied a minute--laying for an "effect"--I knowed it perfectly well.
Then he turned off like he was going to leave the platform, and says, kind of lazy and indifferent:

"Well, I believe that is all."

Why, you never heard such a howl!--and it come from the whole house:

"What WAS it you seen him do? Stay where you are, you little devil! You think you are going
to work a body up till his mouth's a-watering and stop there? What WAS it he done?"

That was it, you see--he just done it to get an "effect"; you couldn't 'a' pulled him off of
that platform with a yoke of oxen.

"Oh, it wasn't anything much," he says. "I seen him looking a little excited when he found
Uncle Silas was actually fixing to hang himself for a murder that warn't ever done; and he
got more and more nervous and worried, I a-watching him sharp but not seeming to look at him--and
all of a sudden his hands begun to work and fidget, and pretty soon his left crept up and HIS
FINGER DRAWED A CROSS ON HIS CHEEK, and then I HAD him!"

Well, then they ripped and howled and stomped and clapped their hands till Tom Sawyer was that
proud and happy he didn't know what to do with himself.

And then the judge he looked down over his pulpit and says:

"My boy, did you SEE all the various details of this strange conspiracy and tragedy that you've
been describing?"

"No, your honor, I didn't see any of them."

"Didn't see any of them! Why, you've told the whole history straight through, just the same
as if you'd seen it with your eyes. How did you manage that?"

Tom says, kind of easy and comfortable:

"Oh, just noticing the evidence and piecing this and that together, your honor; just an ordinary
little bit of detective work; anybody could 'a' done it."

"Nothing of the kind! Not two in a million could 'a' done it. You are a very remarkable boy."

Then they let go and give Tom another smashing round, and he--well, he wouldn't 'a' sold out
for a silver mine. Then the judge says:

"But are you certain you've got this curious history straight?"

