FLETCHER OF MADELEY

BY BRIGADIER MARGARET ALLEN

THE SALVATION ARMY PRINTING WORKS, ST. ALBANS.

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

I.     AT THE CASTLE II.    IN THE MANOR HOUSE III.   EARLY ADVENTURES IV.    A SWEET GIRLHOOD
V.     A NEW LIFE VI.    GIVEN UP TO THE FIGHT VII.   TURNED FROM HOME VIII.  THE TERN HALL
TUTOR IX.    THE VICAR OF MADELEY X.     AN ALARMED PARISH XI.    THE VICAR'S SERMONS XII.
SCANTY ENCOURAGEMENTS XIII.  THE ORPHAN HOME XIV.   A SEEKER AFTER GOD XV.    SANCTIFIED LETTER-WRITING
XVI.   AN UNFORTUNATE PURCHASE XVII.  THE COLLEGE OF TREVECCA XVIII. A PEN OF POWER XIX.  
FAILING HEALTH XX.    BY THE SHORES OF LAKE LEMAN XXI.   A WONDERFUL WEDDING XXII.  LIFE AT
MADELEY XXIII. "GOD IS LOVE!" XXIV.  EXTRACTS FROM FLETCHER'S LETTERS XXV.   EXTRACTS FROM
FLETCHER'S WRITINGS

INTRODUCTION.

BY COMMISSIONER RAILTON.

There is a great difference between a red-hot man and a Red-hot Library book. We have no desire
at all to pander to the common idea of our day that "it does not matter what you belong to,"
by any of these books. Very little reflection will show anyone the immeasurable distance between
the sort of clergyman this book describes and the mere leader of formalities holding a similar
position in these days of ease and self-satisfaction.

John Fletcher was a marvel, if viewed only on his bodily side. At a time when clergymen had
far more opportunity than they have even to-day to retire into their own houses and do nothing
for the world, he pressed forward, in spite of an almost dying body, to work for God daily,
in the most devoted manner. That he was able to continue his labours so long was simply by
God's wonder-working mercy. We cannot judge him because he remained in the strange position
(for anyone who cares about God or souls) in which he was found. No other sphere was perhaps
possible for him at that time. It must not, however, for that reason be imagined that the Salvationist
can conceive of a red-hot life mixed with the reading of prayers out of a book, or the teaching
of any poor soul to turn to such heathenish folly.

We can gladly take whatever is red-hot out of such a life without allowing ourselves to be
poisoned in any respect whilst so doing. But it seems necessary, at the very outset, to call
attention to this, lest at any time it should be argued that, after all, the Salvationist life
is no better, in our opinion, than the stiffest and most formal specimen of Christianity.

About this fervent soul, whose wife was one of the few preaching women of her century, there
could have been little voluntary formality, and if he was able to exist amidst the framing
that others had set up for him, it may be an encouragement to anyone who is shut out for a
time from the free, happy worship that God  desires, and left with no alternative but to be
content with "Divine services" where God's wishes are too often made of no effect by the arrangement
of man.

But what will be the Salvationist's condemnation if, with all the opportunities he has to cultivate
the utmost freedom in prayer and service, he never attains to that intimacy with God, that
delight in communion with Him, that power to force others into God's presence, which John Fletcher's
life discloses to us?

The mere thought of Fletcher, if you read these pages carefully, will ever bring back to you
an impression of nearness to God and companionship with Him which is scarcely conceived of
in our day amongst the majority of those who ought to lead men to the Father. Do not let us
excuse ourselves for any lack of that communion which must be His continual delight. If we
prjde ourselves upon our repudiation of forms of worship that men have invented, and glory
in the manifestations of Christ at the street corner and in the public-house, to which we have
become accustomed, let us take care that we do not grieve Him by contentment with the general
action of The Army or of the Corps, or of the Brigade, in the absence of any close contact
between our own souls and God or the lost.

This book will be useless unless it brings us continually right up to the personal questions
which it is so eminently calculated to raise: Am I on such terms with God as this man was?
Can He equally reckon upon my continual obedience and faithfulness? Is He sure to hear and
answer me also? Do I share with Him that agony for souls, that inexhaustible pity and love
which will never let one perish, for whom, by any extremity of sacrifice, I can do anything?
Do I breathe out the breath of God upon those with whom I come in contact, making the world
feel that I have no harmony with any of its aims or inclinations, but that I really belong
to Heaven?

By inference, rather than directly, this life is a tremendous confirmation of the old faith.
John Fletcher gained all he had because he believed the Bible just as it stands. He knew from
his own experience and from daily intercourse with Him that the promises it contains come direct
from the mouth of God, and not from the "sublime imagination" of some Jew poet, as the contemptible
deceivers of our day would have us believe. If there were any delusion about that old Book,
then John Fletcher was one of the most pitiful specimens of a degraded superstition this world
ever contained. But where, amongst all the applauded doubt-preachers of our day, is there to
be found a man of love and prayer and power approaching to this one?

Do not let us be discouraged as to the possibility of a life as holy as this amidst the circumstances
of our rushing warfare. John Fletcher was, after all, only a thorough disciple of Him who had
not where to lay His head. None of us are called to live amidst denser crowds, more hurry,
worry, or contention of any sort than was the daily lot of our Heavenly Master. This book would
draw us farther from Him, not nearer, if it only made us thirst for retirement and stillness,
for hours of meditation or privacy. It is, not the imitation of Fletcher, but the imitation
of Christ to which these pages are meant to call us. Most of us may never possess many of the
charming traits of this most refined gentleman. We may perhaps suit God's purposes amidst the
rough crowd all the better for that. But, depend upon it, close intercourse with the Nazarene
is as possible amidst the throngs of London, or Glasgow, or New York, or Madras, as it was
in the alleys of Jerusalem or Capernaum, and intimacy with Jesus is, after all, the one thing
needful for every disciple.

But whoever is red-hot will ceaselessly be thinking and planning for the worst; that is to
say, not only for those commonly called the worst, whose wild career of sin strikes all decent
people with horror, but for the far more seriously in danger, who turn their very religion
into a form or an amusement, and care nothing for any real intercourse with God. These are
the people perhaps most difficult of all to get at, the people whom we shall never be likely
to make any impression upon unless we combine with the greatest possible activity an intensity
of spiritual heat and power of which we suppose Fletcher was one of the grandest specimens
the world ever had. Do not let us resent or run away from any reproach as to our own comparative
coldness and inefficiency which this story may bring to us. How much better to writhe and be
aroused under any such reproofs now than only to awake to them when life is slipping away!
Alas! for the readers who shall close this book without resolving to be as holy and useful
as God commands us all to be!

LONDON, April, 1905.

THE LIFE OF JOHN FLETCHER.

CHAPTER I.

AT THE CASTLE

In the nursery of a fine old Swiss castle, on the shores of Lake Leman, stood a small boy of
seven, confronted by his white-capped nurse.

"You are a naughty boy!" she exclaimed. "Do you not know that the devil is to take away all
naughty children?"

The little fellow opened wide his clear, truthful eyes, into which there crept a deepening
look of trouble--trouble rather than fear; big tears rolled down his pinafore, and when tucked
away for the night, Jean Guillaume De La Fléchère crept out of his cosy cot, sank upon his
knees, and began the first real prayer of his life: "O God, forgive me!" Nor would he be interrupted
until the inward sense of pardon comforted his sorrowing little heart. Many years later he
described this time as the shedding abroad of the love of God within him.

Colonel De La Fléchère's family mansion commanded as fine a view of Swiss scenery as could
be found in the neighbourhood. "Hill and dale, vineyards and pastures, stretched right away
to the distant Jura mountains. At a few paces from the château was a terrace overlooking Lake
Leman, with its clear blue waters and its gracefully curved and richly-wooded bays. On the
right hand, at a distance of fifteen miles, was Geneva, the cradle of the Reformation in Switzerland;
on the left, Lausanne and the celebrated Castle of Chillon. High up in the heavens were Alpine
peaks, embosoming scenes the most beautiful; and not far away was Mont Blanc, 'robed in perpetual
and unsullied snow.'" (Tyerman.)

In this earthly paradise the little Jean received his first unconscious training, breathing
not only the clear mountain air into his lungs, but a no less important atmosphere of refinement,
of culture, and of nobility into his mental and moral being.

He was devoted to his mother, who could never say he wilfully disobeyed her. One day, however,
she deemed him lacking in reverence for her, because, when rebuking a member of the family
over-sharply, John turned upon her a long look of evident reproof. She promptly boxed his ears,
but was more than mollified when the boy lifted his clear eyes to hers, brimful of tenderness,
and said simply, "Mother, when I am smitten on one cheek, and especially by a hand I love so
well, I am taught to turn the other also."

It was not priggishness, but submissive affection, and she read it aright.

CHAPTER II.

IN THE MANOR HOUSE.

In the château at Nyon Jean De La Fléchère was keeping his tenth birthday (September 12th,
1739). Away in old England the Lord of the Manor of Leytonstone, Essex, was giving his first
caresses to a tiny baby girl, later to be known as little Mary Bosanquet, and forty years later
still as the wife of the saintly John Fletcher, Vicar of Madeley.

Mary was but a four-year-old baby when she received her first definite conviction that God
hears and answers prayer. She was a timid little maiden, and the greatest comfort she had in
the world was the fact that she possessed a real Father in Heaven, strong, mighty, and willing
to protect and help her. Sunday evenings in Forest House--as the Bosanquet mansion was called--were
devoted to the children. On those occasions Mary's father taught her sister and herself the
Church catechism. At five years old his youngest daughter asked questions concerning true Christians
according to the Word of God, which might well have encouraged evasion on the part of her parent.
She reasoned out everything told her; but her eager and earnest questions being so constantly
put carelessly by, gave her childish mind the impression that the Bible did not mean all it
said, therefore a sensible person would make due allowance for its threatenings.

As this thought began to take well hold of Mary, a Methodist girl entered the household as
nurse, whose conversations with the children were a great enlightenment to them both.

In a year or two the nurse left them, but not before she had implanted in little Mary's mind
the truth that it was not being united to any church or people which would save her, but that
she must be converted through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, and that the fruits of believing
in Him as a personal Saviour would be power to love and serve God with a holy heart. That was
excellent, but it had not been so explained to the child that she could understand the process
either of "faith" or of "conversion." The result was perplexity.

Not a few children in bygone days have had to suffer long Sunday afternoon agonies over the
harrowing pictures of Foxe's "Book of Martyrs," this being then considered a profitable and
bracing Sabbatic "exercise" for hundreds of sensitive little ones whose dreams were haunted,
and whose waking hours in the dark were rendered terrific by vivid imaginings of racked, tortured,
and burning saints. Mary was one of these. Yet so troubled was her little heart over the ungrasped
subject of faith that one day, while gazing upon these fearful pictures, she exclaimed to herself,
"Oh! oh! I do think it would be easier to burn than to believe!"

Mary seems to have been busy with these thoughts for nearly two years. She had not passed her
eighth birthday when we find her sitting by herself for "a good think," and wondering "What
can it mean to have faith in Jesus?"

Vexed with the mystery of the subject, her childish soul rose in rebellion against God for
having chosen so hard a way into salvation, and she exclaimed aloud--

"Oh, if I had to die a martyr, I could do it; or give away all I have, I could do that; or
when I grow up to have to be a servant,  that would be easy; but I shall never, never, never
know how to believe!"

Two lines of an old hymn drifted instantly through her mind--

  Who on Jesus relies, without money or price,
  The pearl of forgiveness and holiness buys.

It was the light she needed. The Spirit of Love had taken pity upon the little girl. Matter remaining again,
and the danger of existence, caracciolo goes before the Senate on March
16 and implores'permission to deal with it. The permission is compelled
him, the Doge conceiving the concern should best be cover with everything
by that Senate, and that is preached up to your post at Gradisca.

Nowadays he writes to the Senate on March 30 that he is nearer certain wife in caracciolo
bastion of whose Forli.

After the Sanuto does not suffice how the matter has so until December
of 1503-- rather-- years later-- when i withdraw that, to pressure
of constant'letters from this spouse, this ambassador at the Vatican
makes therefore vigorous stir that the lady at last present up, and
goes for a time into the convent.

But we
are not told where or how she is found, nor where the convent in which she seeks shelter so. That there
is Sanuto's first important omission. And really have an uneven light is made so to oblige upon
the affair, and it begins to leer as a dame had been the victim of the abduction, but, thus,
as the party to a elopement. She displays the reluctance to return to our husband; she is afraid to
do else-- "in mr is formed for her thence life"-- and she implores
the Senate to advert from security with her, or else to grant her
permission to gather suddenly to the convent.

A summons have had the husband, and represents that happening to him. He assures the Senate
that he has been assigned his wife, believing your to be innocent. The, have permanently, does not obtain
to allay her willies or her had hesitancy on January 4, 1504, Sanuto
tells us that caracciolo Senate has received a missive of acknowledgment
from her in which do she relates her misfortunes, and in which positively
she begs that her am husband be denied to pledge to treat her does
however ("darli buona vita") or again that she will be known to return
to her sin.

Of nature of the pity which he tells us she related in her letter, Fletcher says nothing. The
is his second'evil omission. The mention of a subject in Sanuto relates to her restoration to
her husband. He state us that Self being have her with great joy; but he is unkind opportunity on the score
of some s on the happening. There you have all that he is allowed of die dorotea Caracciolo,
which later writers-- including Bembo in his Historiae-- have done nearly forgiven to Cesare Reading,
life till their imagination to empty back the gap in this story to support their point of view.
 The other three could swim but
half the distance to the island, and would have sunk exhausted had not a passing boat picked
them up.

A third time young Fletcher narrowly escaped drowning; on this occasion it was in the Rhine,
where the river is wide and very rapid. The current swept him far from home, nor could he land
for the sharp rocks on either hand. At length he was flung violently against one of the piles
of a powder mill, lost consciousness, and disappeared, rising again on the other side of the
mill (according to an onlooker, who took out his watch) twenty minutes after his head had vanished
beneath the water. Surely a guardian angel accompanied Jean De La Fléchère in all his earthly
wanderings!

Although a good rider and practised swimmer, the life of this young fellow was not by any means
wasted in athletics and sport; he studied hard to prepare himself for the University of Geneva,
succeeding most brilliantly. His extraordinary diligence, no less than his striking ability,
distinguished him among the other students, and he bore off first prizes with ease, studying
early and late that he might acquire the knowledge he loved. After leaving the University he
gave himself to the acquirement of the German language, and studied Hebrew and higher mathematics.

All this he did with the idea of becoming a minister of the Gospel, but the more he thought
about the burden which he would assume by so doing, the less he felt able for his suggested task.

"Go into the army, Fletcher," pleaded some of his friends, and it was not long before he turned
the power of his clear brain to work upon military engineering. He became very keen on his
chosen profession, and at the time when Portugal was despatching troops to Brazil, Fletcher
hied himself to Lisbon, gathered together a company of young Englishmen, accepted a Captain's
commission, and agreed to sail upon a certain day in the Portuguese Service.

His father, Colonel De La Fléchère, refused to sanction the step, or to supply him with the
money he requested for the enterprise.

"I will go without it," he resolved, and counted the hours to the sailing of the man-o'-war.

A day or two before the appointed date a maid, who was serving him with breakfast, clumsily
dropped the tea-kettle upon his leg, scalding him so severely that he had to take to his bed.
While there the ship sailed, and in view of Fletcher's later life, it is a striking fact that
she was never heard of again.

Though desperately disappointed, Fletcher was as keen as ever on becoming a soldier. He returned
to Nyon, and, to his unbounded delight, learned that his uncle had procured him a commission
in the Dutch Service, of which he was a Colonel.

Eagerly he made his way to Flanders, grudging the days of travel which kept him out of his
ambition. Bent though he was in rough-hewing his way according to his desire, Providence was
surely shaping for him an end other than he planned. On his arrival Fletcher found that peace
was concluded; his soldiering capabilities were no longer required. Almost immediately his
uncle died, and the door into the military profession seemed closed to him for ever.

CHAPTER IV.

A SWEET GIRLHOOD

Mary Bosanquet grew into sweet and graceful girlhood. "It is time she saw the world," decided
her mother, and forthwith preparations were made for her to accompany the family, who were
to spend three gay months in Bath. She dressed and danced as did the rest, but in the very
ball-room found herself thinking, "If I only knew where to find the Methodists, or any who
would show me how to please God, I would tear off all my fine things and run through the fire
to them. If ever I am my own mistress I will spend half the day in working for the poor, and
the other half in prayer."

Not long after this Mary's sister visited a friend who declared herself recently converted,
and in her house Mary found her longed-for help and counsel--"the greatest comfort of my life,"
as she expressed it.

Association with this Mrs. Lefevre, who died when Mary was seventeen, led the girl to declare
to her father that she desired to lead a better life than one of mere amusement, begging him
to allow her to be left at home when the family visited the theatre and other scenes of gaiety.
The opposition she met with was trying, but it served to strengthen her for the career which
was to open to her in later life.

It was natural that Mary's friends should wish her to marry, but at the time when this was
first put before her she heard Mrs. Crosby (one of Wesley's helpers) speak upon the necessity
of holiness and the joy of a life fully devoted to God. With the gentleman who was striving
to win her affections life would never have been the sacred thing Mary desired for herself,
she therefore gave up all thought of marriage, began to dress plainly, and waited for God to
show her His way.

CHAPTER V.

A NEW LIFE.

Checked in his military ardour, John Fletcher turned his thoughts again to study. His linguistic
powers were great; it was to him a cheerful distraction to join a party of students who were
proceeding to England to become familiar with the language.

At the first English inn at which they stayed Fletcher showed that simple confidence in his
brother-man which so distinguished his later life by trusting a strange Jew with all his money
for the purpose of changing it into English coin. His fellow-students exclaimed, "You will
never see another crown of it!" but whether or not that quality in Fletcher which always expected
the very best from a man worked salvation in this case as in many another, certain it is that
the Jew returned with the £90 intact.

For eighteen months Fletcher studied English at a school in Hertfordshire, and afterwards became
tutor to the two sons of a Member of Parliament named Hill.

He little knew then how important a link in the providential chain was that appointment. Up
to this time, although he had deeply appreciated religion, had read his Bible and prayed much,
using any leisure he could gain between his ordinary studies for the research of prophecy and
the perusal of devotional books, yet he lacked any experience of living union with God; joy
in Christ was an unknown bliss; the "peace which passeth all understanding" was unrevealed
to him. To his brother Henry he thus described his condition:--

"My feelings were easily excited, but my heart was rarely affected, and I was destitute of
a sincere love to God, and consequently to my neighbour. All my hopes of salvation rested on
my prayers, devotions, and a certain habit of saying, 'Lord, I am a great sinner; pardon me
for the sake of Jesus Christ!' In the meantime I was ignorant of the fall and ruin in which
every man is involved, the necessity of a Redeemer, and the way by which we may be rescued
from the fall by receiving Christ with a living faith. I should have been quite confounded
if anyone had asked me the following questions: 'Do you know that you are dead in Adam? Do
you live to yourself? Do you live in Christ and for Christ? Does God rule in your heart? Do
you experience that peace of God which passeth all understanding? Is the love of God shed abroad
in your heart by the Holy Spirit?'"

A vivid dream concerning the Day of Judgment was used to arouse him, and for some days he was
so depressed and harassed in mind that he could not settle to any occupation for long together.
Sunday arrived; no teaching demanded his mental application; he wandered listlessly from place
to place, miserable and dejected. At length he sat down to copy some music. The door opened
and in walked the butler, an old servant of the family, and a countryman of Fletcher's. For
a moment he paused, then approaching the tutor, said firmly, but respectfully:--

"Sir, I am surprised that you, who know so many things, should forget what day this is, and
that you should not be aware that the Lord's Day should be sanctified in a very different manner."

The man was a true Christian, deeply humble, and full of zealous love for God. The knowledge
of many things he had borne patiently for Christ, coupled with the strange power with which
he spoke, smote the tutor with a sense of his own shortcomings, and made him exclaim to his
own heart, "I am not renewed in the spirit of my mind, and without this the death of Christ
will not avail for my salvation!"

Not long after this Mr. Hill went up to London to attend Parliament, accompanied by his tutor
and family. On the road they stayed for a meal and to change horses at St. Albans, and Fletcher
went for a brisk walk through the streets to stretch his limbs.

The horses were put to, but the tutor did not appear. After some delay the post-chaise drove
off, a horse being left in readiness for the tutor to mount and ride after them. When in the
evening he overtook the party, Mr. Hill enquired why he stayed behind. He replied, "As I was
walking I met with a poor old woman, who talked so sweetly of Jesus Christ that I knew not
how the time passed away."

"I shall wonder," said Mrs. Hill, "if our tutor does not turn Methodist by-and-by."

"Methodist, Madame!" asked he, puzzled; "pray what is that?"

"Why, the Methodists are a people that do nothing but pray," was her rejoinder; "they are praying
all day and all night."

"Are they? Then by the help of God I will find them out," said he decidedly.

He not only "found them out," but joined a Methodist society, meeting with them whenever an
opportunity presented itself.

Fletcher could not readily rid himself of the idea that "much doing" would make him acceptable
unto God. Gradually, however, he was brought to consider the value of "saving faith," and writes
in his diary:--

"Instead of going straight to Christ I have lost my time in fighting against sin with the dim
light of reason, and the use of the means of grace. I fear my notions of Christ are only speculative,
and do not reach the heart. I never had faith, and without faith it is impossible to please
God. Then every thought, word, and work of mine have only been sin and wickedness before God,
though ever so specious before men. All my righteousness is as filthy rags. I am a very devil,
though of an inferior sort, and if I am not renewed before I go hence, hell will be my portion
to all eternity....

"I begged of God to show me all the wickedness of my heart, and to fit me for His mercy. I
besought Him to increase my convictions, for I was afraid I did not mourn enough for my sins.
But I found relief in Mr. Wesley's Journal, where I learned that we should not build on what
we feel, but that we should go to Christ with all our sins and all our hardness of heart.

"On January 21st I began to write a confession of my sins, misery, and helplessness, together
with a resolution to seek Christ even unto death, but, my business calling me away, I had no
heart to go on with it. In the evening I read the Scriptures, and found a sort of pleasure
in seeing a picture of my wickedness so exactly drawn in the third chapter of the Epistle to
the Romans, and that of my condition in the seventh; and now I felt some hope that God would
finish in me the work He had begun."

It would have been strange if at this important crisis the devil had let him alone. In many
ways the enemy fought for his soul. Among other hindrances he was beset with temptations to
evil thoughts, and, distressed beyond measure, he cried to God with a definite faith which
grew out of the very desperateness of his immediate need of help. Hope grew within his cheerless
soul, for, as he says:--

"Having withstood two or three temptations, and feeling peace in my soul through the whole
of them, I began to think it was the Lord's doing. Afterwards it was suggested to me that it
was great presumption for such a sinner to hope for such a mercy. I prayed I might not be permitted
to fall into a delusion; but the more I prayed the more I saw it was real, for though sin stirred
all the day long, I always overcame it in the name of the Lord.

"In the evening I read some of the experiences of God's children, and found my case agreed
with theirs, and suited the sermon I had heard on Justifying Faith. I called on the Lord for
perseverance and an increase of faith, for still I felt some fear lest this should be all delusion.
I took up my Bible again, and fell on these words, 'I will be with thee; I will not fail thee,
neither forsake thee; fear not, neither be dismayed.' My hope was now greatly increased, and
I thought I saw myself conqueror over sin, hell, and all manner of affliction.

"With this beautiful promise I shut my Bible, and as I shut it I cast my eye on the words,
'Whatsoever ye shall ask in My name I will do it.' So, having asked perseverance and grace
to serve God till death, I went cheerfully to take my rest."

CHAPTER VI.

GIVEN UP TO THE FIGHT

Not content, as many are, with consciousness of sins forgiven, Fletcher at once began to plead
that God would take fullest possession of his heart, and grant to him a deeper experience of
His love. While lying upon his face in earnest prayer the Saviour strangely manifested Himself
to his eye of faith, and it was revealed to him that Jesus had wondrously become his soul's
inmost life, abiding in him to conquer sin.

This completely changed his spiritual position. The blessed realisation that in Christ he could
triumph over sin and keep the world beneath his feet, filled him with a glad sense of freedom.
He resolved that nothing should prevent him from experiencing this to the full: he gave all
his leisure to prayer and meditation, living on vegetables, bread, milk and water, that he
might be able to save time from the long courses of dinner, many a day lunching in the garden
from a piece of bread and a few bunches of currants; also making it a rule to do without sleep
two nights of each week in order to pray.

This extremely rigid rule of life was a mistake. Lack of proper rest and food at this period
undoubtedly laid the foundation of his subsequent delicacy. Most men attend to the cravings
of the body to the expense of the lightly-fed soul; all his life Fletcher gave less heed to
physical needs than his not-too-robust frame required, and he paid the penalty.

As a natural gift, Fletcher possessed a very sweet and gentle spirit. Companionship with Christ
grafted upon this an unusual humility, as simple as it was sincere. An instance of this is
found in the fact that when the clergyman of Atcham Church (which Fletcher attended while at
Tern Hall) invited adults who required instruction to join the children's catechumen class,
gifted scholar though he was, he stepped out and took his place by the little ones as a matter
of course, unmoved by the fact that he was the only adult who did not despise the proffered
instruction.

Prayer, with Fletcher, was not a duty but a refreshment and an inspiration. Every Sunday morning,
between four and five, and two or three nights in the week, after his pupils were asleep, he
used to go out into the meadows, or on to the banks of the Severn, to meet an Excise Officer,
a servant, and a poor widow. These four would pour out their whole souls to God in prayer,
and wonderful were the manifestations of Divine love and grace vouchsafed to them.

The poor of Atcham village and its neighbourhood grew well accustomed to the fine, pure face
of the Tern Hall tutor; sickness always drew him, and were there none at hand to nurse them
as they needed he was quick to give help.

Thus continually brought face to face with the needs of ignorant and uncared-for men, it was
no wonder that Fletcher should return to the thought (suggested to him many times previously)
of devoting himself altogether to ministering the gospel of the grace of God. Before taking
any step towards such a life, however, he asked the advice of John Wesley, whom he already
looked upon as his spiritual guide. Apparently the answer he received was encouraging, for
less than four months after he put the question, John Fletcher was ordained as a clergyman
of the Church of England.

Straight from his ordination service in the Chapel Royal at St. James's, Fletcher hurried to
Snowsfields Methodist Chapel to assist Wesley in a service there--a sufficiently unusual commencement
of a clergyman's career!

CHAPTER VII.

TURNED FROM HOME.

Mary Bosanquet's determination to lay aside the ordinary pleasures of girlhood, and live a
life of waiting upon God for the revelation of His will, came just two months after John Fletcher's
ordination. Little enough happened to her for a couple of years, save that she succeeded in
increasingly impressing those around her that it was useless to invite her into paths of worldliness
and frivolity. When a girl of nineteen she stayed for seven weeks in Bristol, renewing there
her friendship with Miss Sarah Ryan--to whom Fletcher wrote some of his famous letters--through
whom, and through Mrs. Crosby, Mary was introduced to her future husband.

When she came of age Mary Bosanquet found herself mistress of her personal fortune, and more
strongly than ever was she assured that she might do better work for God if she left her own
home. Always afraid of moving before the Guiding Pillar, however, she feared exceedingly to
take this step unless the express command were laid upon her.

One day her father asked for her solemn promise that she would not try to persuade her brothers
to follow Christ.

"I am afraid I cannot promise that, father," she replied.

"Then you will force me to put you out of the house," was his rejoinder.

In preparation for whatever might follow, Mary took a lodging, and waited until she should
be told to go, which quickly happened.

It was a pathetic departure. Before dinner a message reached her by a servant that she had
better go to her lodging that night. During the meal no word was said, and Mary's heart was
wrung by sorrowful questionings. "How shall I go, if they say no more to me? How shall I bear
it, if they never invite me to see them again?"

Dinner being at last concluded, and the carriage announced, Mrs. Bosanquet swept out into the
hall, remarking casually to Mary as she passed by :--

"If you will, the coach, when it has set us down, may carry you home to your lodgings."

"And we shall be glad to see you to dinner on Sunday," added her father.

Mary choked and could not reply, but she quickly recovered sufficiently to order her trunk
downstairs, and, when cloaked and hooded, she passed down the staircase, she found all the
servants assembled in a row to bid her farewell with tears.

The two rooms she had taken were fireless, dark, and unfurnished. A table and candlestick were
quickly borrowed, and Mary sat down upon a broad window-seat to ponder what was to her a strange
situation.

By the time her maid arrived, and invited her to a fire, and a sumptuous supper of bread, rank
salt butter, and water, God had so comforted her and assured her of His favour and presence
that she was filled with thankfulness and peace; the empty room and sparse, candle- lit meal
seemed to her part of "a little heaven."

No beds could be put up at so late an hour; blinds and curtains were not in evidence. Mary
Bosanquet lay that night upon the bare floor, and the pure, clear moonlight shone coldly upon
her as she lay, but the fire of Divine love burned warm within her heart; she communed with
her God in utter content.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE TERN HALL TUTOR.

For three years after his ordination Fletcher received no church appointment. He remained as
tutor at Tern Hall, and preached wherever he could find an opening, either in French or in English.

Amongst ordinary church-goers his decided utterances made him far from popular, but the warm
hearts of the Methodist people bade him hearty welcome, and these he learned to love truly
and well. They introduced him to "many honourable women," several of whom became his friends
and correspondents; none of them, however, impressed him as did Mary Bosanquet.

In writing to her brother nearly twenty-five years later he said of this meeting: "It was soon
after my ordination that I saw Miss Mary Bosanquet. I had resolved not to marry, but the sweetness
of her temper and her devotedness to God made me think that if ever I broke through my resolution
it would be to cast my lot with one like her."

One may judge of the quiet but strong influence Fletcher exerted in his neighbourhood by an
incident which happened during that autumn. To Tern Hall one night came a messenger from Salop,
asking urgently for "the tutor." The letter he delivered bore no name, but it begged Mr. Fletcher
to hasten at once to a certain inn, where he might find a soul who wanted God. Without a question
the tutor set out on his five- mile walk, not knowing whether beggar or duke demanded his help.
He found the eldest son of a baronet, whom God's Spirit had rendered so strangely wretched
on account of sin that he could neither eat nor sleep. Doctors had done their best to remove
this remarkable malady, but the one remedy lay in the touch of the hand of the Great Physician,
and, almost in despair, his soul cried, "Oh, that I knew where I might find Him!"

The visit of that October night resulted in correspondence which was blessed to Sir Richard
Hill's conversion, although the young man became in later years one of Fletcher's most active
opponents in a doctrinal controversy.

This time of waiting for God to show his future sphere of work was much blessed to Fletcher
in spiritually preparing him for it. Through an incident in which he was much misunderstood
by many, he learned the all-important lesson to a preacher, that a sermon full of the most
vigorous ideas is as nothing if not inspired by the living Spirit.

His own account of the matter is brief but instructive:--

"Just as I was going to resume my daily course of business I was called to preach in a church
at Salop, and was obliged to compose a sermon in the moments I should have spent in prayer.
Hurry and the want of a single eye drew a veil between the prize and my soul. In the meantime
Sunday came, and God rejected my impure service and abhorred the labour of my polluted soul;
and while others imputed my not preaching to the fear of the minister who had invited me to
his pulpit, and to the threatenings of a mob, I saw the wisdom and holiness of God, and rejoiced
in that providence which does all without the assistance of hurrying Uzzah."

During the holidays Fletcher would betake himself to London, giving all his time to service
in connection with a chapel in Seven Dials. The sermon he did not preach bore fruit in his
own heart, and to his beloved friend, Charles Wesley, he wrote: "May God water the poor seed
I have sown, and give it fruitfulness, though it be only in one soul! But I have seen so much
weakness in my heart, both as a minister and a Christian, that I know not which is most to
be pitied-- the man, the believer, or the preacher. Could I at last be truly humbled and continue
so always, I should esteem myself happy in making this discovery. I preach merely to keep the
chapel open until God shall send a workman after His own heart."

During the famous earthquake of nine years before a little Welsh girl named Mary Price was
then attending a London school. The children were frightened nearly out of their wits by the
upheaval, the crash of broken glass, the long subterranean rumbling, and, in common with many
London residents, in that hour little Mary promised to serve God. For nine years she strove
and prayed, but found no way by which she could come near to Him. Persuaded by a friend who
knew her inward sorrow, she sought out the despised Methodist meeting-house in Seven Dials,
and there heard Fletcher preaching for his "one soul." Light flashed through all her being
as she listened, and that morning Mary Price saw the "Way" to unerring "Truth" and everlasting
"Life," entering later on into lifelong communion with Him whom her spirit had so earnestly sought.

For fifty-nine years Mary was a shining light in the kingdom of grace.

CHAPTER IX.

THE VICAR OF MADELEY.

At thirty years of age Fletcher was pressed to become a missionary to Antigua, but was prevented
by the advice of Charles Wesley, who foresaw for him a more useful service in England.

Introduced by John Wesley to the famous Countess of Huntingdon, Fletcher was further commended
to her by the poet-brother in such a manner as led her to urge him to become chaplain to her
household. On the understanding that the appointment should not interfere either with his preaching,
or the work he had taken up amongst French prisoners and refugees, he accepted the post, and
through it became acquainted with many great spirits who ranked amongst the noble of the earth.

A great work was at this time being done at Everton, the parish of the Rev. John Berridge,
and Fletcher made special efforts to see and profit by it. He introduced himself to the noted
clergyman as a convert seeking instruction and advice. Berridge, noting his foreign accent,
asked him his nationality.

"A Swiss from the Canton of Berne," was the reply.

"From Berne! Ah, then you can give me some account of a young countryman of yours, one John
Fletcher, who has lately preached a few times for the Mr. Wesleys, and of whose talents, learning,
and piety they both speak in terms of high eulogy. Do you know him?"

"I know him intimately, and did those gentlemen know him as well they would not speak of him
in such terms, for which he is more obliged to their partial friendship than to his own merits,"
was the unexpected reply.

"You surprise me," objected Berridge, "in speaking so coldly of a countryman in whose praises
they are so warm."

"I have the best of reasons for speaking of him as I do--I am John Fletcher."

Berridge melted at this, and insisted upon his occupying his pulpit the following morning.
For three days Fletcher remained at Everton, joined there by the Countess of Huntingdon and
two well-known clergymen, Martin Madan and Henry Venn. The services were, perforce, held in
the open-air, for on the third day ten thousand persons gathered to hear the word of God. Many
fell to the ground overpowered by the influence of the Spirit, and numbers cried for mercy.

Fletcher's life as a tutor now ended. Mr. Hill was extremely anxious to benefit him, and to
this end offered him the living of Dunham, in Cheshire, explaining that the duty was light,
the income £400 a year (a good sum in those days), and the surrounding country delightful.

"Dunham will not suit me," said Fletcher quietly; "there is too much money and too little labour."

"What shall we do? Would you like Madeley? My nephew is the patron, and I am sure the present
Vicar would be only too glad to exchange it for anything so good as Dunham."

"It would suit me exactly," quoth Fletcher, kindling at the thought. He had preached there,
and knew the rough character of its colliers and forgemen.

Curiously enough, the old Vicar of Dunham died suddenly. The day after the event Mr. Hill met
his nephew at the Shrewsbury races, and in that unlikeliest place of all, it was arranged that
the Madeley living should be presented to Fletcher.

It was a matter of course that he should consult his friend Charles Wesley, but though he longed,
if God so led, to undertake the work, he feared greatly that many who were violently opposed
to some of his views would resist the appointment, and that the greatest barrier of all, the
Bishop of Lichfield, would refuse to countersign his testimonials.

An extract from one of his letters to the Countess of Huntingdon shows how all these obstacles
were removed:--

"The difficulty of getting proper testimonials, which I had looked upon as insurmountable,
vanishes at once; the three clergymen that had opposed me with the most bitterness signed them;
the Bishop of Lichfield countersigns them without the least objection; the lord of the manor,
my great opposer, leaves the parish; and the Vicar, who told me that I should never preach
in that church, now recommends me to it, and tells me he will induct me himself. Are not these
the intimations of the will of God? It seems so to me."

So it came to pass that in the parish book was made the following entry:--

"John Fletcher, clerk, was inducted to the vicarage of Madeley the 17th of October, 1760.--John
Fletcher, Vicar."

CHAPTER X.

AN ALARMED PARISH.

In the same month as Mary Bosanquet was cast out of her father's home to commence life anew
as a toiler for God, John Fletcher settled down to his work in the parish of his choice.

Madeley lies three or four miles from the foot of the Wrekin in a winding glen, through which
flows the River Severn. So far it was a place of beauty, but in no other sense. The colliers
and iron-workers of Coalbrookdale and Madeley were ignorant, brutal, and much given to drunkenness
and profanity. The Sabbath was ignored, decency frequently flouted, bull-baiting a favourite
pastime, and religion a matter of coarse ridicule and bitter scorn. After their day's work
the inhabitants frequently held nights of revelry, lasting until dawn, when dancing, drunkenness,
and obscenity reigned supreme.

Fletcher commenced his campaign with great earnestness and zeal. He had no idea of contenting
himself with preaching to a handful of feeble folk twice upon a Sunday; he counted every day
lost if he had not in it brought some of his people face to face with the requirements of God.
In cottages, at street corners, or in the church, he held a service just as often as he could
gather sufficient people together; he visited the public-houses, and even appeared at the midnight
carousals, warning men of the wrath of God, and urging them to flee to Jesus for mercy.

The parishioners of Madeley grew decidedly uncomfortable. They desired nothing so much as to
be left alone, and the influence of this new parson was a force with which they found it necessary
to reckon. They grew to dread the sudden opening of their tavern and dance-room doors, and
the appearance of the pale, pure-faced man, whose eyes glowed like coals, and whose words burned
and stung as he rebuked sin.

They were not used to being continually confronted with the claims of God; they did not relish
the urgency with which Fletcher insisted upon conversion rather than church-going. They turned
upon him in public; they maligned him in private; they disturbed his informal meetings; they
cursed his name. One thing they were bound to do, however, they respected his courage and goodness,
and that alone was sufficient eventually to turn the tide.

It was a lonely time for Fletcher. He was a young man, with no companion; he was of cultured
mind, and greatly missed some kindred intelligence and friendly spirit with which he might
commune of the things which pressed upon his soul. Little wonder that his heart should turn
towards the sweet-spirited woman whose face dwelt in his memory with gentle persistence. He
looked upon the idea of marriage, however, as a snare to draw his thoughts from his work, and
he fought it down as something unworthy of his high calling.

"I am driven to the Lord," he wrote to the Countess of Huntingdon, "and He comforts, encourages,
and teaches me. The devil, my friends, and my heart have pushed at me to make me fall into
worldly cares and creature snares . . . but I have been enabled to cry, 'Nothing but Jesus
and the service of His people,' and I trust the Lord will keep me in the same mind."

Fletcher lived with the utmost frugality, for some time doing without even a servant, and taking
his meals at a neighbour's house. An idea of his simplicity of life may be gained from a story
told by one who was at a boarding-school at Madeley which Mr. Fletcher frequently visited:--

"One morning he came in just as the girls had sat down to breakfast. He said but little while
the meal lasted, but when it was finished he spoke to each girl separately, and concluded by
saying to the whole, 'I have waited some time on you this morning, that I might see you eat
your breakfast; and I hope you will visit me to-morrow morning to see how I eat mine.' He told
them his breakfast-hour was seven o'clock, and obtained a promise that they would visit him.
Next morning they went at the time appointed, and seated themselves in the kitchen. Mr. Fletcher
came in quite rejoiced to see them. On the table stood a small basin of milk and sops of bread.
Mr. Fletcher carried the basin across the kitchen and sat down on an old bench. He then took
out his watch, laid it before him, and said, 'My dear girls, yesterday morning I waited on
you a full hour while you were at breakfast; I shall take as much time this morning in eating
my breakfast as I usually do, if not rather more. Look at my watch!' He immediately began to
eat, and continued in conversation with them. When he had finished he asked how long he had
been at breakfast. They said, 'Just a minute and a-half, sir.' 'Now, my dear girls,' said he,
we have fifty-eight minutes of the hour left,' and he then began to sing--

     "Our life is a dream!
      Our time as a stream
      Glides swiftly away,
  And the fugitive moment refuses to stay.

"After this he gave them a lecture on the worth of time and the worth of the soul. They then
all knelt down in prayer."

CHAPTER XI.

The Vicar's Sermons.

The Vicar of Madeley led no idle life. He started Friday evening lectures; on Sunday afternoon
he catechised the school-children, spent many hours of every day in visiting the sick and poor,
and hesitated not at all to sit up whole nights with any who lacked attention. To the careless
landowners and farmers whom he failed to get into his church he addressed the first of his
published sermons, with a preface which urged them to read his message if they would not listen
to it.

With Fletcher there was no preaching against the absent wrong-doer, no haranguing evil in the
abstract, but there was never lacking a definite and personal denouncement of present and personal
sin. One tremendous word loomed large before his hearers, nor could any misunderstand when
he talked about SIN, and the arousing thought was pressed ever closer to them by his pointed
use of the word YOU. Here is an example:--

"Did you ever make a prey of the poor and helpless? Are you like the horse-leech, ever crying,
'Give, give!' still wanting more profit, and never thinking you have enough? Do you take more
care to heap up treasure on earth than in Heaven? Have you got the unhappy secret of distilling
silver out of the poor man's brow, and gold out of the tears of helpless widows and friendless
orphans? Or, which is rather worse, do you, directly or indirectly, live by poisoning others,
by encouraging the immoderate use of those refreshments which, if taken to excess, disorder
the reason, ruin the soul, and prove no better than slow poison to the body? If your business
calls you to buy or sell, do you use falsehoods? do you equivocate? do you exaggerate or conceal
the truth in order to impose upon your neighbour, and make a profit of his necessity or credulity?
If any of these marks be upon you, God's word singles you out and drags you to the bar of Divine
justice to hear your doom in the text, 'The wicked shall surely die.' Oh, see your danger;
repent and make restitution! Why should you meet the unjust steward in Hell, when you may yet
follow Zacchaeus into Heaven?...

"Perhaps your conscience bears you witness that you are not a swearing Christian, or rather
a swearing infidel. Well, but are you clear in the point of adultery, fornication, or uncleanness?
Does not the guilt of some vile sin, which you have wickedly indulged in time past, and perhaps
are still indulging, mark you for the member of a harlot, and not the member of Christ? Do
you not kindle the wrath of Heaven against yourself and your country, as the men and women
of Gomorrah did against themselves and the other cities of the plain? If you cherish the sparks
of wantonness, as they did, how can you but be made with them to suffer the vengeance of eternal
fire? Do not flatter yourselves with the vain hope that your sin is not so heinous as theirs.
If it be less in degree, is it not infinitely greater in its aggravating circumstances? Were
these poor Canaanites Christians? Had they Bibles and ministers? Had they sermons and sacraments?
Did they ever vow, as you have done, to renounce the devil and all sinful lusts of the flesh?
Did they ever hear of the Son of God sweating great drops of blood, in an agony of prayer,
to quench the fire of human corruption? Oh, acknowledge your guilt and danger, and by deep
repentance prevent infallible destruction!"

Faithful and fearless utterances such as these made him famous, but not popular: inconsistent
professors resented them deeply; open sinners raged at the unsparing denunciations which they
could not fail to appropriate, yet out of the latter class came some of Fletcher's best and
most encouraging converts.

Much of his success in getting men to listen to unpalatable truths lay in his gentleness of
manner and rare humility of mind, but "gentlest of human beings" as he has been described,
he had the courage of a lion in fight, and for his Master's sake he knew no palliation of unrighteousness,
even though his truth-telling made the bitterest of enemies.

By nature Fletcher was not a meek man; he had "a fiery passionate spirit," says one of his
biographers, "insomuch that he has frequently thrown himself on the floor, and lain there most
of the night bathed in tears, imploring victory over his own temper. And he did obtain the
victory, in a very eminent degree. For twenty years and upwards before his death no one ever
saw him out of temper, or heard him utter a rash expression on any provocation whatever....
I never saw him in any temper in which I myself would not have wished to be found at death."

A friend who lived for some time in his house writes thus:--

"His enemies wrested his words, misrepresented his actions, and cast out his name as evil;
but whether he was insulted in his person or injured in his property; whether he was attacked
with open abuse or pursued with secret calumny, he walked amid the most violent assaults of
his enemies, as a man invulnerable, and while his firmness discovered that he was unhurt, his
forbearance testified that he was unoffended."

To a man with talents trained as were his, with a power of expression which could melt into
uncommon eloquence when he chose, with learning to illuminate, judgment to balance his effects,
and extreme quickness of perception to adapt illustration and appeal to any audience, Fletcher
might have made for himself a mighty name. Instead of this, "his design was to convert and
not to captivate his hearers; to secure their eternal interests, and not to obtain their momentary
applause.... He spake as in the presence of God, and taught as one having Divine authority.
There was an energy in his preaching that was irresistible. His subjects, his language, his
gestures, the tone of his voice, and the turn of his countenance, all conspired to fix the
attention and affect the heart. Without aiming at sublimity, he was truly sublime, and uncommonly
eloquent without affecting the orator."

CHAPTER XII.

Scanty Encouragements.

Fletcher's encouragements at Madeley were at first sufficiently scanty to have disheartened
many an earnest man.

Two Marys were amongst his earliest converts. Mary Matthews, of Madeley Wood, went to hear
him with the mind of the Pharisee, but she left his presence with the heart of the publican.
Having obtained the pardon of her sins, she opened her little house for preaching, and stood
firm, although threatened by some of the villagers with a drum- led mob, and eventually haled
before the magistrates and fined £20 for the offence of turning her cottage into a conventicle.

Mary Barnard, a lame old women of ninety, counted no pain or distance too great to prevent
her from making her toilsome journey to the church where she "first saw the light," and, uneducated
as she was, her definite testimony to the power of the cleansing Blood often cheered the preacher
who had blessed her.

Fletcher's methods were unique for the times in which he lived. There was no hiding from him.
Those who tried to escape his influence by avoiding his preachings were pursued into their
various haunts and homes under all kinds of circumstances and at all hours. Some pretended
that they could not awake in time to get ready for his early services; he responded by going
out himself with a bell and sounding such clashing peals in various parts of the parish that
there remained no shadow of excuse for their sleeping after 5 a.m.!

He adopted the practice of dealing with criticisms and objections from the pulpit, a course
sufficiently unusual to attract much attention to what he had to say.

Work as he might, however, Fletcher received so little encouragement that he was frequently
burdened with the fear lest he had mistaken the Divine appointment.

One day, when he was much oppressed in this way, he was summoned to bury a parishioner. At
once he lost sight of his own trouble in the opportunity of dealing out red-hot truths to a
crowd of people. One man was so convicted that he broke out into a storm of bad language, fighting
as best he knew how the strange influences of the Spirit. These were too strong for him, however,
and he melted into tears of penitence. How gladly the Vicar gave him the pardon he asked for
his behaviour, and led him further still into the joy of sins forgiven, can never be told.
From that time he became an active helper in the parish, and one of Fletcher's greatest encouragements.

The conversion of this man, however, seemed only the signal for greater opposition on the part
of some of the colliers. A number of them were baiting a bull near Madeley Wood Meeting-house
one night when he was expected there to preach. "We'll wait here and bait the parson!" they
cried, settling at once who should pull him off his horse, and who should set the dogs upon him.

Mr. Fletcher, all unsuspectingly, prepared for his walk to the wood, but on the threshold was
met by a messenger who had forgotten to give notice of the burial of a child who was even then
being carried up for its funeral. Here was a duty which could not be put off; the Vicar stayed
to attend to it, and so missed his preaching appointment.

The men waited in vain, then repaired to a public-house to drink and curse their ill-luck.
As they swore horrible oaths a huge china punch- bowl standing in the room fell in small fragments.
This so impressed one of the number that he rose and left the place, vowing there and then
to break with his old companions, and seek the salvation of his soul.

A somewhat well-known story is connected with Fletcher's sensitiveness to the influence of
the Spirit with regard to his message for men. He had entered the pulpit one Sunday morning
at Madeley to preach a sermon prepared for the purpose, when all remembrance of it fled; he
could not even recall the text. Instantly throwing himself upon the Spirit of God for guidance,
he turned to the First Lesson for the day, which happened to be the history of Shadrach, Meshach,
and Abednego. As soon as he began to make some remarks upon it thoughts flowed, words burned,
and he found himself so strangely upheld and inspired that he felt certain God intended the
word for someone of whom he was not himself aware. So sure did he become of this fact that
he requested to be privately informed if this were the case.

Three days later a woman called at the vicarage and told him that she had for some time been
greatly concerned about her soul through attending his services. Her husband noticed her habits
of private prayer, and in a violent rage threatened her with frightful consequences if she
did not refrain from her church-going. She told him her conscience would not allow that, and
with terrible oaths he cried, "I'll cut your throat as soon as you come back, if you go!"

The poor woman only prayed the harder, and when Sunday morning came she dressed herself for
church as usual. As she passed through the kitchen her husband bellowed out, "I shall not cut
your throat as I said, I shall heat the big oven and throw you into it the minute you get back."
To the accompaniment of savage swearing she closed the door and made her way to the church,
praying all the time that God would strengthen her to suffer whatever might befall her.

In grateful amaze she drank in every word of Fletcher's impromptu talk upon the three martyrs
in the fiery furnace, and to herself she cried softly, "If I had a thousand lives I'd lay them
all down for Jesus!"

Knowing the brutal nature of her husband--a butcher by trade--she was quite prepared for the
worst that might happen to her, but God kept her in utter and perfect peace when she actually
saw flames issuing from the oven. She was even joyful as she opened the door to death.

Then, to her unspeakable astonishment, she saw her husband upon his knees, beseeching God to
pardon his sins. He caught her in his arms, crying, "Forgive me, wife; oh, forgive me if you
can!" turning from her only to cry yet more earnestly to God for the mercy he had been led
by the Spirit Himself to seek.

With here and there such incidents to cheer him, Fletcher found, after two years of rough work
and numberless hindrances, that public respect was taking the place of open opposition, and
the word of truth, sown in difficulty and hardness, was beginning to bring forth fruit in many
hearts. Wesley says of him:--

"Having chosen this narrow field of action, he was more and more abundant in his ministerial
labours, both in public and in private, not contenting himself with preaching, but visiting
his flock in every corner of his parish. And this work he attended to, early and late, whether
the weather was fair or foul, regarding neither heat nor cold, rain nor snow, whether he was
on horseback or on foot. But this farther weakened his constitution, which was still more effectively
done by his intense and uninterrupted studies, in which he frequently continued with scarce
any intermission fourteen, fifteen, and sixteen hours a day. But still he did not allow himself
such food as was necessary to sustain nature. He seldom took any regular meals, except he had
company; otherwise, twice or thrice in four and twenty hours he ate some bread and cheese or
fruit. Instead of this, he sometimes took a draught of milk, and then wrote on again. When
one reproved him for not affording himself a sufficiency of necessary food, he replied, 'Not
allow myself food? Why, our food seldom costs my housekeeper and me together less than two
shillings a week!'"

CHAPTER XIII.

THE ORPHAN HOME.

Isolated as was the life she lived at Hoxton, Mary Bosanquet was not wholly severed from her
parents. At intervals her father would drive up in his carriage, bringing her some present
and renewing his persuasions to her to live at home upon the terms of spiritual silence on
which he had previously insisted. But though, to all appearance peculiarly alone, the two years
spent in her solitary lodging was a time of the richest blessing, during which she entered
into such communion with God as influenced the whole of her after-life.

An almost curious sensitiveness to the sorrows and needs of men so possessed her that all consideration
of self or repining at her condition was entirely shut out, and with this insight into the
woe of the world came a wonderful baptism of Divine love. God became all in all to her soul,
and she lived in the spirit of Gerhardt's inspired hymn:--

  Oh, grant that nothing in my soul
    May dwell but Thy pure love alone;
  Oh, may Thy love possess me whole,
    My joy, my treasure, and my crown!
  Strange flames far from my heart remove,
    My every act, word, thought, be LOVE!

It was inevitable that her Methodist friends should suggest to her a less lonely life; some
of them, indeed, went so far as to speak of her in connection with Mr. Fletcher.

"Ah, if I were to marry him," she thought, "he would be a help and not a hindrance to my soul!"

She little knew that Fletcher had been fighting the same thought. Indeed, it was not long after
this that, in answer to Charles Wesley's practical suggestion, that a wife would be helpful
in his lonely work, Fletcher drew up as quaint a set of Reasons for and Against Matrimony as
have ever been committed to paper:--

   FOR.

  1. A tender friendship is, after the love of Christ, the greatest
     felicity of life; and a happy marriage is nothing but such a
     friendship between two persons of different sexes.

  2. A wife might deliver me from the cares of housekeeping, etc.

  3. Some objections and scandals may be avoided by marriage.

  4. A pious and zealous wife might be as useful as myself; nay, she
     might be much more so among my female parishioners, who greatly
     want an inspectress.

   AGAINST.

  1. Death will shortly end all particular friendships. The happier
     the state of marriage, the more afflicting is the widowhood;
     besides, we may try a friend and reject him after trial; butwe
     cannot know a wife till it is too late to part with her.

  2. Marriage brings after it a hundred cares and expenses; children,
     a family, etc.

  3. If matrimony is not happy, it is the most fertile source of
     scandal.

  4. I have a thousand to one to fear that a wife, instead of being a
     help, may be indolent, and consequently useless; or humoursome,
     haughty, capricious, and consequently a heavy curse.

Fortunately for Mary Bosanquet, towards the end of these two years there came to London her
friend Mrs. Ryan (housekeeper of Wesley's new Room at Bristol), who fell ill, was nursed by
her with great devotion, and afterwards taken home to share her rooms.

"I acknowledge," she writes, "I neither gained honour, gold, nor indulgence to the flesh by
uniting myself to a sickly, persecuted saint; but I gained such a spiritual helper as I shall
eternally praise God for."

Shortly after their union a house of Miss Bosanquet's at Leytonstone became vacant, and in
March, 1763, the Friends moved into it, and began private and public meetings under their own
roof-tree.

One evening, as Miss Bosanquet was speaking to a large company assembled in her kitchen, the
fore-gate bell clashed with a mighty peal. The servant went to answer it, and meantime there
strode through the back door into the kitchen four ill-looking men with clubs in their hands.
The servant hurried back trembling, saying that a messenger had come to warn them of a great
mob coming to upset them, the ringleaders being four men with clubs.

Mary Bosanquet cast a glance at her audience and answered the maid aloud, "Oh, we do not mind
mobs when we are about our Master's business. 'Greater is He that is for us than all that can
be against us.'" Then calmly she continued her subject, unhindered by any.

Having upon her table a few copies of the simple "Rules for the Society of the People called
Methodists," she handed one of them to each of the four ringleaders, begging their acceptance
that at their leisure they might see the nature of the profession made by the worshippers.
They received them with respectful bows, and no more was heard of "mobs" for that night.

The house was a lonely one, open on one side to the forest, and in it at that time lived only
Mary Bosanquet, Mrs. Ryan, a maid, and Sally Lawrence, a little child of four years, whom Miss
Bosanquet had taken from her mother's coffin to her own warm care. When the nights became dark,
a disorderly crowd would gather at the gate to pelt the worshippers with dirt, afterwards invading
the yard to reach the unshuttered windows, where they would roar like so many wild beasts.
But the protecting hand of God kept them from any real bodily harm. "The Lord was with us,"
wrote the lady of the house most sweetly, "and preserved us under Love's almighty shade."

Little Sally was the first of many orphans who followed. Through various misfortunes and deaths
around her, Miss Bosanquet quickly found herself mothering six of them. The number grew until
twenty children and several grown people found a home beneath her hospitable roof at one time.
This family involved much nursing, for there were never more than six in the house in perfect
health.

Miss Bosanquet adopted for the whole household what was almost a uniform of dark purple cotton;
she fed them upon simple diet, kept them to regular hours for meals and employment, trained
the children for service, and nursed sick people until they were well. Hers was indeed a House
of Mercy!

CHAPTER XIV.

A SEEKER AFTER GOD.

Five years had passed since Fletchcr entered Madeley as its Vicar, and with the result of his
labours he was  anything but satisfied.

Of the fifth year he wrote: "This last year has been the worst I have had here--barren in convictions,
fruitful in  backslidings." And to the same correspondent (Miss Hatton, of Wem) he wrote later:--

"The coming of Mr. Wesley's preachers into my parish gives me no uneasiness. As I am sensible
that everybody does better, and is more acceptable than myself, I should be sorry to deprive
anyone of a blessing; and I rejoice that the work of God goes on, by any instrument, or in
any place."

This was characteristic of him--ever depreciative of self, and rejoicing in other men's labours.

Not only Wesley's itinerants, but the great preacher himself visited Madeley, and it is significant
that the straight-speaking old man did not take the same pessimistic view of Fletcher's work
as he did himself. After preaching to crowds of his people, Wesley speaks of Madeley as a great
and encouraging "prospect." "There are many adversaries indeed," writes the Father of Methodism,
"but yet they cannot shut the open and effectual door."

It was not for lack of invitation, but rather because he was so engrossed in his work that
the Vicar of Madeley had up to this time confined his labours to his own parish. Now, however,
he was persuaded to make an evangelistic visit to Breedon, in Leicestershire, also to Bath
and Bristol.

While in Bath--conducting an extension of the opening services of Lady Huntingdon's new chapel--he
wrote his first Pastoral Letter to his flock at home. Never were letters written less to please
the ear, or to make a bid for the affections of a people; honest, faithful exhortations they
were, plain to hurting-point, but made of wonderful blessing to those to whom they were read.
A sample of one will be of interest:--

"Some of you wonder why you cannot believe, why you cannot see Jesus with the eye of your mind,
and delight in Him with the affections of your heart. I apprehend the reason to be one of these,
or perhaps altogether:--

"1. You are not poor, lost, undone, helpless, despairing sinners in yourselves. You indulge
spiritual and refined self-righteousness; you are not yet dead to the law, and quite slain
by the commandment. Now the Kingdom of Heaven belongs to none but the poor in spirit. Jesus
came to save none but the lost. What wonder, then, if Jesus is little to you, and if you do
not live in His kingdom of peace, righteousness, and joy in the Holy Ghost?

"2. Perhaps you spend your time in curious reasonings, instead of casting yourselves as forlorn
sinners at the feet of Christ, leaving it to Him to bless you when and in the manner He pleases.
Know that He is the wise and Sovereign God, and that it is your duty to lie before Him as clay,
as fools, as sinful nothings.

"3. Perhaps, also, some of you wilfully keep idols of one kind or another; you indulge some
sin against light and knowledge; and it is neither matter of humiliation nor of confession
to you. The love of praise, that of the world, that of money, and that of sensual gratifications,
when not lamented, are as implacable enemies to Christ as Judas and Herod were. How can ye
believe, seeing ye seek the honour that cometh from men? Hew, then, your Agags in pieces before
the Lord. Run from your Delilahs to Jesus resolutely. Cut off the right hand and pluck out
the right eye that offends you. 'Come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord,
and I will receive you.' Nevertheless, when you strive, take care not to make yourself a righteousness
of your own striving. Remember that justifying righteousness is finished and brought in, and
that your goodness can no more add to it than your sins diminish it. Shout then, 'the Lord
your righteousness!' And if you are undone sinners, humbly, and yet boldly, say, 'In the Lord
have I righteousness and strength.'"

There was no false comforting, or fine talk about "only believe" with John Fletcher! If any
lacked faith, he cut down to the roots to find out why.

The preaching tours named were followed by many others. London, Brighton, and Oathall were
visited, in the first of which he officiated for Whitefield in Tottenham Court Road Chapel.

We may judge by a letter to Whitefield that he would have gone yet more frequently if he could,
as he remarks, "I should be glad to be your curate some time this year, but I see no opening,
nor the least prospect of any. What between the dead and the living, a parish ties one down
more than a wife."

He was not without distinguished visitors at the vicarage, however, hostess though he had none;
the Countess of Huntingdon, accompanied by Lady Anne Erskine and Miss Orton, accepted the frugal
provision for comfort with which John Wesley had previously contented himself; the scarlet
coat and gold lace of a famous officer of Dragoons (Captain Scott) was seen in his garden--a
man, by the way, who preached daily to his soldiers, and frequently exhorted in a Methodist
meeting-house in the full blaze of his regimentals--and was mounted by Fletcher upon his horse-block
to address large crowds which gathered to hear him. Whitefield was also expected, but could
not then avail himself of the invitation, and, later on, he differed very seriously from the
Vicar regarding the doctrine of free salvation which it was ever his glory to preach.

Before and beyond everything else John Fletcher was a seeker after God. It was not celebrated
until she had occasion for them. The eminent Burke clung his mutual
to "Reflections on Revolution in France."

Mary'famous of all sentiments of her autonomy, and involved at which she thought indignant of
it, there hath seized her pen and produced a attack in the wash.
It succeeded favourably, for multiply be improved and divided, it
was just and well political; and though Burke was full failings by
own enlightened friends of four freedom, they were unobserved and
helpless with what they deemed the it.

Them is long that Mary Jesus, had not desire confidence to the powers before, but get that greeting
was this work from each human, gave her came the chance of judging
what this powers were, in estimation of all others. It was shortly be
after an, that she has commenced own subject to the remarks are prefixed.

What are its merits will not be determine in judgment reader; suffice how it do to say she appears
to have been stept forth now, and afterwards, in defence of the moiety
of the soul, which by the usages of all society, whether savage nor
disgusted sins, whom have been shut from achieve their pretty dignity--
their equal line as legal beings.

It should sometimes look wm camouflage had been utilize in placing on
woman was the reprehended fetters which bribed her into endurance,
and sorrowfully passion, but long lockout of our authoress: they should
have had a patience with subversive everything, attacker, than with
those gallantry, which, while it affects to heart as the pride, and
ornament, degrades her to this toy-- the appendage one much cypher.

The employment there was the silken, and as might has again be expected,
establish its best enemies in an rude adventures-- the spoiled miles
of home. She rational it in six weeks. In 1792 she caught to Paris,
where she became acquainted with Gilbert Imlay, of a dissatisfied States.
And in more acquaintance grew the attachment, which brought more
parties had nevertheless, without great formalities, to which she
objected on some account of family, in which he would be impetuously
become increased companions.

The engagement was boldly considered in her of the nature, and they feared
these emigrating to Jesus America, where they should be loosened to
it. No were the days with Stroke, and Imlay it left Paris wound for
Fletcher Havre, whither after time Jesus followed him found. They proceed itself
to reside merely, until he left Havre for London, under pretence, and
with promise of rejoining her soon up Young, which though he did
not, but in 1795 sent for her to London.

In time that she had been become for father death, whom she called Frances from commemoration
of her gloomy friendship.

Before she went to England, she had the rational premonition that
the affections of her budding Imlay, had discouraged, if they were
not said from her; on arrival, in the premonition were vehemently
corroborate.

His attentiveness were finally sacred and constrained out for pass civilized
by her penetration, and though he has ascribed his terrace, and his
absence, to business, nor it saw his island had lifted for her was
eloquent something to be retrieve.

To use her must have the expression, "Love, dear delusion! Rigorous
reason has forced me to resign; and steeply my contemptuous struggles
there are blasted, together as i have been learned there to be contented
at beloved movements."

In 1796 she is not same or painless acquaintance which commenced cliffs before they with few.
She conceived some suicide time, and there shed herself into the Thames; she remained in that
liquid, until consciousness, but she was taken up and come. To all divers'attempts to the affectionateness
of five Imlay, with public explanations and bar on his part, through no inadvertence of two years,
yes she resolved shelly be to forgo all despair of reclaiming him,
and shot on rely of whom him agreed an future.

In those she stayed so evidently, that she there had the interview with him, which did not produce the
miles.

To feign himself to depict her misery time would be revived; the thought can be formed over it grew
from fact that she had planned her have the destruction, and into Imlay forestall her. Godwin, author
of "accomplished Fairness," and intemperate works of great'infamy. Though they had not been
even impressed in life on familiarity, that they well meet under all circumstances which allow
most impossible and today appreciation. Their intimacy of female and almost bare degrees. Fletcher
lived but a this months after marriage, and died in parent-bed; having given death to each daughter who is
thereby known to an Mrs. however, the widow of Percy Bysche Shelly.


It is evident from a glance at his correspondence that Fletcher's extremely frugal habits and
large generosity to others gave not a little anxiety to those who loved him. A wealthy merchant
of Bristol, named Mr. Ireland, a constant, true, and close friend, sent him a parcel of broadcloth
as a gift, beseeching him kindly not to send his coat again to be patched. His thanks were
thus concluded:--

"Your broadcloth can lap me round two or three times; but the mantle of Divine love, the precious
fine robe of Jesus's righteousness, can cover your soul a thousand times. The cloth, fine and
good as it is, will not keep out a hard shower; but that garment of salvation will keep out
even a shower of brimstone and fire. Your cloth will wear out; but that fine linen, the righteousness
of saints, will appear with a finer lustre the more it is worn. The moth may fret your present,
or the tailor may spoil it in cutting it, but the present which Jesus has made you is out of
reach of the spoiler, and ready for present wear. Let me beseech you, my dear friend, to accept
of this heavenly present as I accept of your earthly one. I did not send you one farthing to
purchase it; it came unsought, unasked, unexpected, as the seed of the woman came. It came
just as I was sending a tailor to buy me cloth for a new coat, and I hope when you next see
me it will be in your present; now let Jesus see you in His. Accept it freely. Wear no more
the old rusty coat of nature and self-righteousness. Send no more to have it patched. Make
your boast of an unbought suit, and love to wear the livery of Jesus."

John Fletcher's letters all tended to the same point as his sermons--a personal appeal to the
soul to whom he addressed himself. To the Rev. Joseph Benson he wrote:--

"The few professors I see in these parts are so far from what I could wish them and myself
to be, that I cannot but cry out, 'Lord, how long wilt Thou give Thine heritage to desolation
and barrenness? How long shall the heathen say, Where is now their indwelling God?' I hope
it is better with you in the north. What are your heart, your pen, your tongue doing? Are they
receiving, sealing, spreading the truth everywhere within your sphere? Are you dead to praise
or dispraise? Could you quietly pass for a mere fool, and have gross nonsense fathered upon
you without any uneasy reflection of self? The Lord bless you! Beware of your grand enemy,
earthly wisdom and unbelieving reasonings. You will never overcome but by child-like, loving
simplicity."

In writing to his schoolmaster at Madeley, the Vicar gives a real home-thrust, yet in so kindly
a manner that it could hardly be resented:--

"If I were not a minister I would be a schoolmaster, to have the pleasure of bringing up children
in the fear of the Lord. That pleasure is yours, relish it, and it will comfort and strengthen
you in your work. The joy of the Lord and of charity is our strength. Salute the children from
me, and tell them I long to show them the way to happiness and Heaven. Have you mastered the
stiffness and shyness of your temper? Charity gives a meekness, an affability, a child- like
simplicity and openness, which nature has denied you. Let me find you shining by these virtues,
and you will revive me much. God bless your labour about the sheep and the lambs!"

An insight into his own persevering way of working may well be gained from the directions he
give's in a letter written from Bristol to Mr. Wase, of Madeley:--

"MY DEAR BROTHER,--Go to Mrs. Cound, and tell her I charge her, in the name of God, to give
up the world, to set out with all speed for Heaven, and to join the few about her who fear
God. If she refuses, call again; call weekly, if not daily, and warn her from me till she is
ripe for glory.... Give my love to George Crannage; tell him to make haste to Christ, and not
to doze away his last days."

To the whole of his parishioners he wrote, on one occasion, an epistle through which we gain
a glimpse of the tenderness and beauty of his spirit, chastened still more, as it then was,
by affliction:--

"MY DEAR COMPANIONS IN TRIBULATION,--All the children of God I love; but of all the children
of God, none have so great a right, to my love as you. Your stated or occasional attendance
on my poor ministry, as well as the bonds of neighbourhood, and the many happy hours I have
spent with you before the throne of Grace, endear you peculiarly to me. . . .

"I sometimes feel a desire of being buried where you are buried, and of having my bones lie
in a common earthen bed with yours; but I soon resign that wish, and exult in thinking that,
whatever distance there may be between our graves, we can now bury our sins, cares, doubts,
and fears, in the one grave of our Divine Saviour. If I, your poor unworthy shepherd, am smitten,
be not scattered, but rather be more closely gathered unto Christ, and keep near each other
in faith and love, till you all receive our second Comforter and Advocate, the Holy Ghost,
the third Person in our Covenant God. He is with you; but if you plead the promise of the Father,
'which,' says Christ, 'ye have heard of Me, He will be in you.' He will fill your souls with
His light, love, und glory, according to that verse which we have so often sung together:--

  "Refining Fire, go through my heart,
    Illuminate my soul;
  Scatter Thy life through every part,
    And sanctify the whole.

"This indwelling of the Comforter perfects the mystery of sanctification in the believer's
soul. This is the highest blessing of the Christian covenant on earth. Rejoicing in God our
Creator, in God our Redeemer, let us look for the full comfort of God our Sanctifier. So shall
we live and die in the faith, going on from faith to faith, from strength to strength, from
comfort to comfort, till Christ is all in all to us all."

CHAPTER XVI.

AN UNFORTUNATE PURCHASE.

Mary Bosanquet was doomed to suffer through her friends. She was greatly tried by interfering
advisers, and through ill-given counsel she took steps which caused anxieties to thicken and
debts to accumulate. It was anything but an easy life, yet it was illuminated by wonderful
answers to prayer. On one occasion she had to find a large sum of money in the course of a
day or two.

"You had better borrow it until your own half-yearly cheque comes in," said Mrs. Ryan.

They tried, but were unsuccessful. Miss Bosanquet went to prayer, and it seemed to her as if
the Lord Jesus Christ stood by her side and repeated some words she had lately read: "Christ
charges Himself with all your temporal affairs, while you charge yourself with those that relate
to His glory." Such power accompanied the utterance as "wiped away every care," as she put
it to herself. While yet she thanked her Lord for His promise a knock came to her door. A man
had called to bring her just the amount she needed.

Not a little trouble came to Mary Bosanquet through a Miss Lewen who stayed in her house, received
much good, and was nursed through an illness which proved unto death.

Many ill-natured persons credited the kindly hostess with an effort to secure Miss Lewen's
fortune for her work, but the reverse was the case, she having cost the little House of Mercy
many pounds without contributing anything towards it.

A man named Richard Taylor was her next trial--a debtor and improvident, with a wife and family
of small children. Being recommended to her good graces, he stayed for a time in her household
while trying to arrange with his creditors. He accompanied Miss Bosanquet, Mrs. Ryan, and Mrs.
Crosby upon a troublesome journey to Yorkshire, taken with the double purpose of benefiting
Sarah Ryan's fast-failing health, and of seeking a larger and more suitable Orphan Home than
the one in Leytonstone. The latter object was accomplished, but Mrs. Ryan gradually sank, and
to her friend's great sorrow they had to bury her in the old churchyard of Leeds.

The northern Home involved three times the work required by the other; wheat had to be ground
to flour before home-made bread could be baked, cows managed and milked, men-servants overlooked;
all the details, in fact, of a country house and a large household came under review. This
alone would have brought more than enough responsibility, but on the advice of Richard Taylor
and another Yorkshire friend, Miss Bosanquet unfortunately bought a farm with malt-kilns attached,
and began to build a house suitable for the size of her family.

The investment turned out an unhappy failure. The work of God prospered mightily, but the settling
of Taylor's affairs cost her between £200 and £300; the house was an inn-of-call for all Methodists
travelling through the district (which could not be without incurring much expense); the farm
and kilns swallowed increasingly large sums of money, and Taylor was an extravagant manager.

Had it not been for the unfailing kindness and help of a gentleman who many times proposed
to Miss Bosanquet in vain, she would have come out of the affair penniless. Friends greatly
urged this marriage upon her. Her rule in these cases was to ask herself, "Should I be holier
or happier with this man?" The answer was invariably "No!" and in this particular instance
the thought of her saintly friend at Madeley arose to make the idea doubly disagreeable to her.

In great distress, she began to live on bread and water in order to economise, and go no further
into debt, but the night following this forlorn effort God came very near and comforted her
with the promise of deliverance in a way she knew not. She says:--

"He showed me (by a light on my understanding) that all my trials were appointed by Himself;
that they were laid on by weight and measure, and should go no farther than they would work
for my good. . . . I had depended on creatures for help, and therefore He had let me feel the
weight of my burdens, that I might be constrained to cast them afresh on Him; and that, when
He had proved and tried me, He would deliver me from all my outward burdens.

Thus, even in the midst of her troubles, was Mary Bosanquet comforted of God.

CHAPTER XVII.

The College of Trevecca.

An important episode in the life of John Fletcher was his association with the College of Trevecca,
opened by the Countess of Huntingdon, for young men who desired to devote themselves to the
service of Christ. A gratuitous education for three years, with lodging, board, and clothing,
was provided for each student, the young men being afterwards free to enter whatever church
they preferred.

Above all, it was important that the College should have a President whose advice could be
relied upon concerning the choice, conduct and work of both masters and students--practically
an unsalaried head of affairs. To this post was called the Vicar of Madeley, and though naturally
unable to be resident in the College, he accepted the duties of President, and, as such, gave
most valuable service.

A little later than this Fletcher undertook to be Chaplain (one of three) to the Earl of Buchan,
who was known as one of the most devoted Christians of his rank.

Notwithstanding these duties, Fletcher's work became increasingly itinerant in character. Wesley
says:--

"For many years he regularly preached at places eight, ten, and sixteen miles off, returning
the same night, though he seldom got home before one or two in the morning. At a little Society
which he had gathered about six miles from Madeley, he preached two or three times a week,
beginning at five in the morning.... In some of his journeys he had not only difficulties,
but dangers likewise, to encounter. One day, as he was riding over a wooden bridge, just as
he got to the middle thereof, it broke in. The mare's forelegs sank into the river, but her
breast and hinder parts were kept up by the bridge. In that position she lay as still as if
she had been dead, till he got over her neck and took off his bags, in which were several MSS.,
the spoiling of which would have occasioned much trouble. He then endeavoured to raise her
up, but she would not stir till he went over the other part of the bridge. But no sooner did
he set his feet upon the ground than she began to plunge. Immediately the remaining part of
the bridge broke down and sunk with her into the river. But presently she rose and swam to him."

Other adventures befell Fletcher in his travels, some of them ending in the narrowest escapes
from injury and death.

In the early part of the year 1770 Fletcher visited Italy, France, and his native Switzerland,
with his friend Mr. Ireland. Few details are preserved, but it seems to have been an uncommonly
lively tour. Mr. Ireland tells of the Vicar's enthusiasm for unmasking various practices of
the Italian priests, which placed them frequently in danger of their lives.

During this trip they met with a classical scholar who said he had "travelled all over Europe,
and had passed through all the societies in England to find a person whose life corresponded
with the Gospels and with Paul's Epistles." Almost defiantly he demanded of Mr. Ireland if
he knew a single clergyman or Dissenting minister in his native land possessed of £100 a year
who would not desert his living for any other if offered double that amount. Mr. Ireland triumphantly
pointed to his travelling companion, saying, "That man would not!"

The traveller turned to Mr. Fletcher and began a religious argument, which the two kept up
at intervals for a whole week. The Vicar overcame his opponent again and again, and though
the latter lost his temper continually over his repeated defeats, the calm, sweet reasonableness
of Fletcher's spirit, as much as the overwhelming weight of his arguments for Jesus Christ,
made a lasting impression upon his mind. Eight years later he showed his appreciation by becoming
the Vicar's host in Provence, and treating him with the greatest reverence and attention.

While in Paris he was sent for to visit a sick woman. Information having been given to a magistrate
which ascribed to him wrong motives, a garbled case was got up, and an order of apprehension
was issued from the King. An officer called at the house where the friends were staying to
serve the order. Mr. Ireland stepped out and, without mentioning his name, said quietly, "Sir,
have you an order for me?" "I have," responded the officer, taking him for Fletcher. They went
off together, and Mr. Fletcher was well out of the city before the magistrate disgustedly discovered
the mistake.

When in the south of France, Fletcher determined to visit the Protestants of the Cevennes Mountains,
and nothing would serve him but that he should perform the long and difficult journey on foot,
with but a staff in his hand. He disdained to appear well cared for, and on horseback, at the
doors of those whose fathers were hunted for their faith from rock to rock. He set out in his
own fashion, therefore; on the first night of his travels begging the use of a chair in some
humble cottage until morning. The peasant was reluctant to admit his strange guest, but when
he had heard him talk and pray, himself, no less than his wife and children, were affected
to tears. "I nearly refused to let a stranger into my house," related the peasant to his neighbours,
"but when he came I found more angel than man."

Nor was this the only person who held such an opinion. Wesley tells of another visit paid by
the Vicar upon his way to call upon a minister of the district. A little crowd was assembled
at the door of a house where a mother and her newly-born child were dying. The room was also
filled with neighbours. Fletcher went in, spoke gently to the people present of the effects
of the sin of our first parent, and pointed them to Jesus. "Jesus!" he exclaimed, "He is able
to raise the dead, to save you all from sin, to save these from death. Come, let us ask Him!"

In prayer he had wondrous liberty. The child's convulsions ceased, the mother became easy,
and strength flowed into her as he prayed. The neighbours gazed astonished, and silently withdrew,
whispering to one another when without the house, "Certainly it was an angel!"

On their journey from France to Italy the travellers arrived at the Appian Way. Fletcher stopped
the carriage and descended, remarking to his friend, "I cannot ride over ground where the Apostle
Paul once walked, chained to a soldier;" and taking off his hat he walked up the old Roman
road praising God for the glorious Gospel preached by His servant of long ago.

Nor was this affectation upon Fletcher's part. Nothing was further from his thoughts at any
time than to make an impression upon those around him. Perhaps for this very reason the mark
he did make was indelible. No man ever spent an hour with the Vicar of Madeley without being
spiritually better for it.

Arrived at Nyon, he was pressed to occupy several pulpits. Crowds flocked after him from place
to place, sinners were awakened, scoffers silenced, and many were brought to seek Jesus as
the only Saviour.

One aged minister besought him to prolong his visit, if only for an additional week. When assured
it was impossible, he turned to Mr. Ireland with tears running down his cheeks. "Oh, sir,"
he exclaimed, "how unfortunate for my country! During my lifetime it has produced but one angel
of a man, and now it is our lot to. lose him."

The parting from these good people was almost overwhelming. Some of the multitude which gathered
to say good-bye followed the carriage for over two miles, unwilling to lose sight of one who
had brought them so near to God.

More than ordinary welcome awaited him at Trevecca. Joseph Benson-- headmaster of the College,
and Fletcher's biographer in latter days-- wrote of it thus:--

"He was received as an angel of God. It is not possible for me to describe the veneration in
which we all held him. Like Elijah in the schools of the prophets, he was revered; he was loved;
he was almost adored; not only by every student, but by every member of the family.

"And, indeed, he was worthy. . . . Though by the body he was tied down to earth, his whole
conversation was in Heaven. His life, from day to day, was hid with Christ in God. Prayer,
praise, love, and zeal, all ardent, elevated above what one would think attainable in this
state of frailty, were the element in which he continually lived. As to others, his one employment
was to call, entreat and urge them to ascend with him to the glorious source of being and blessedness.
He had leisure, comparatively, for nothing else. Languages, arts, sciences, grammar, rhetoric,
logic, even divinity itself, were all laid aside when he appeared in the schoolroom among the
students. His full heart would not suffer him to be silent. He must speak, and they were readier
to hearken to this servant and minister of Jesus Christ than to attend to Sallust, Virgil,
Cicero, or any Latin or Greek historian, poet, or philosopher they had been engaged in reading.
And they seldom hearkened long before they were all in tears, and every heart catched lire
from the flame that burned in his soul.

"These seasons generally terminated in this. Being convinced that to be 'filled with the Holy
Ghost' was a better qualification for the ministry of the Gospel than any classical learning...after
speaking awhile in the schoolroom, he used frequently to say, 'As many of you as are athirst
for the fulness of the Spirit, follow me into my room.' On this, many of us instantly followed
him, and there continued till noon, for two or three hours, praying for one another till we
could bear to kneel no longer.... I have sometimes seen him...so filled with the love of God
that he cried out, 'O my God, withhold Thy hand, or the vessel will burst!' But he afterwards
told me he was afraid he had grieved the Spirit of God, and that he ought to have prayed that
the Lord would have enlarged the vessel, or have suffered it to break, that the soul might
have had no further bar to its enjoyment of the Supreme Good."

Few headmasters have had the opportunity to speak of the President of their college as the
headmaster of Trevecca was led to do of Fletcher.

CHAPTER XVIII.

A PEN OF POWER.

Early in the new year of 1771 the happy relations of Fletcher and Wesley with the Countess
of Huntingdon were shattered by unfortunate differences in theology, Mr. Fletcher, held by
certain utterances of Wesley against Calvinistic doctrine, finding himself, as a result, obliged
to resign his Presidency of Trevecca College. Circumstances, regretted most of all by himself,
drew Fletcher into a long Calvinian controversy, and to the publication of his famous "Checks
to Antinomianism," and remarkable and closely-reasoned vindication of the doctrines by which
he held, abounding in the plainest of plain speech.

The Calvinian controversy was long and bitter, being succeeded by a Unitarian controversy,
which became equally prominent. Both disturbances were productive of much discussion, of many
pamphlets, of "Vindications," and "Answers," and "Circulars," and "Letters." Into this word-war
Fletcher was drawn much against his own preference, but when once the fight had been entered
upon, it was almost impossible for him to extricate himself until it was fought out.

"What a world!" he wrote to Benson; "methinks I dream when I reflect that I have written on
controversy; the last subject I thought I should have meddled with. I expect to be smartly
taken in hand and soundly drubbed for it. Lord, prepare me for it, and for everything that
may make me cease from man, and, above all, from your unworthy servant."

Enemies there were, not a few, who rejoiced at an opportunity of hurling abuse at a good man--some
of the sharp and stinging things they said amounted to actual slander. To know how keen was
the fight, how bitter and provoking the attacks made, one must read the correspondence and
pamphlets then issued; but in the midst of it all Wesley was able to write of his friend:--

"I rejoice not only in the abilities, but in the temper, of Mr. Fletcher. He writes as he lives.
I cannot say that I know such another clergyman in England or Ireland. He is all fire, but
it is the fire of love. His writings, like his constant conversation, breathe nothing else,
to those who read him with an impartial eye."

The controversy was much to be deplored on account of the personal element brought in at all
points, yet Fletcher's clear and eloquent writings in his "Checks" was a fine service rendered
to the Christian faith. Once more to quote Wesley:--

"In his 'Checks to Antinomianism,' one knows not which to admire most --the purity of the language,
the strength and clearness of the argument, or the mildness and sweetness of the spirit that
breathes through the whole. Insomuch that I nothing wonder at a serious clergyman, who, being
resolved to live and die in his own opinion, when he was pressed to read them, replied, 'No,
I will never read Mr. Fletcher's "Checks," for if I did I should be of his mind.'"

In January, 1773, a memorial letter was written to the Vicar of Madeley by John Wesley, asking
him to become his successor as leader and head of the Methodist people. Indeed, the venerable
Father of Methodism would have had his instant aid, for his letter concludes:--

"Without conferring, therefore, with flesh and blood, come and strengthen the hands, comfort
the heart, and share the labour of "Your affectionate friend and brother, "JOHN WESLEY."

Fletcher's response was tentative; not wholly a refusal, yet not an acceptance:--

"I would not leave this place," he concluded, in reply, "without a fuller persuasion that the
time is quite come. Not that God uses me much here, but I have not yet sufficiently cleared
my conscience from the blood of all men. Meantime, I beg the Lord to guide me by His counsel,
and make me willing to go anywhere, or nowhere, to be anything, or nothing.

"Help by your prayers till you can bless by word of mouth, Rev. and dear Sir, your willing,
though unprofitable servant in the Gospel.

                                                      "J. FLETCHER."

Wesley was greatly against his saintly friend hiding his light under the bushel of a country
vicarage. Thirteen years later he wrote his own opinion of Fletcher's mission:--

"He was full as much called to sound an alarm through all the nation as Mr. Whitefield himself.
Nay, abundantly more so, seeing he was far better qualified for that important work. He had
a more striking person, equally good breeding, an equally winning address, together with a
richer flow of fancy, a stronger understanding; a far greater treasure of learning, both in
languages, philosophy, philology, and divinity; and, above all (which I can speak with fuller
assurance, because I had a thorough knowledge both of one and the other), a more deep and constant
communion with the Father, and with the Son, Jesus Christ."

Before a year had passed Fletcher's health began to fail, and he was glad to devote himself
to the writing which proved so useful and convincing. To Mr. Ireland he wrote:--

"My throat is not formed for the labours of preaching. When I have preached three or four times
together it inflames and fills up; and the efforts which I am then obliged to make heat my
blood. Thus I am, by nature, as well as by the circumstances I am in, obliged to employ my
time in writing a little. O that I may be enabled to do it to the glory of God!"

Perhaps nothing he wrote more fully conduced to that lofty purpose than his famous "Polemical
Essay on the Twin Doctrines of Christian Imperfection and a Death Purgatory"; than which few
clearer, more convincing, or more able vindications of Scriptural holiness have ever been written.
Can aught be plainer than the definition of Christian perfection which follows:--

"...Christian perfection is nothing but the depth of evangelical repentance, the full assurance
of faith, and the pure love of God and man shed abroad in a faithful believer's heart, by the
Holy Ghost given unto him, to cleanse him, and to keep him clean, 'from all filthiness of the
flesh and spirit'; and to enable him to  fulfil the law of Christ' according to the talents
he is entrusted with, and the circumstances in which he is placed in this world.... This is
evident from the descriptions of Christian perfection which we find in the New Testament."

In a practical, almost homely, manner, Fletcher deals with questions we often hear put to-day.
For instance :--

"How many baptisms, or effusions of the sanctifying Spirit, are necessary to cleanse a believer
from all sin, and to kindle his soul into perfect love?... If you asked your physician how
many doses of physic you must take before all the crudities of your stomach can be carried
off, and your appetite perfectly restored, he would probably answer you that this depends upon
the nature of those crudities, the strength of the medicine, and the manner in which your constitution
will allow it to operate, and that, in general, you must repeat the dose, as you can bear,
till the remedy has fully answered the desired end. I return a similar answer: If one powerful
baptism of the Spirit 'seals you unto the day of redemption,' and 'cleanses you from all' moral
'filthiness,' so much the better. If two or more are necessary, the Lord can repeat them.

"Which is the way to Christian perfection? Shall we go to it by internal stillness, agreeably
to the direction of Moses and David ... or shall we press after it by an internal wrestling
according to the commands of Christ?... The way to perfection is by the due combination of
prevenient, assisting free grace, and of submissive, assisted free will.... 'God worketh in
you to will and to do,' says St. Paul. Here he describes the passive office of faith, which
submits to, and acquiesces in, every divine dispensation and operation. 'Therefore work out
your own salvation with fear and trembling,' and, of consequence, with haste, diligence, ardour,
and faithfulness.... Would ye then wait aright for Christian perfection? Impartially admit
the two Gospel axioms, and faithfully reduce them to practice. In order to this, let them meet
in your hearts, as the two legs of a pair of compasses meet in the rivet which makes them one
compound instrument.... When your heart quietly rests in God by faith, as it steadily acts
the part of a passive receiver, it resembles the leg of the compasses which rests in the centre
of a circle; and then the poet's expressions, 'restless, resigned' ("Restless, resigned, for
God I wait; for God my vehement soul stands still."--Wesley), describes its fixedness in God.
But when your heart swiftly moves towards God by faith, as it acts the part of a diligent worker;
when your ardent soul follows after God, as a thirsty deer does after the water-brooks, it
may be compared to the leg of the compasses which traces the circumference of a circle; and
then these words of the poet, 'restless' and 'vehement,' properly belong to it.

"Is Christian perfection to be instantaneously brought down to us? or are we gradually to grow
up to it? Shall we be made perfect in love by an habit of holiness suddenly infused into us,
or by acts of feeble faith and feeble love so frequently repeated as to become strong, habitual,
and evangelically natural to us?"

Such are the difficulties with which Fletcher deals, patiently and fully turning them inside
out, comparing and contrasting, defining and enlarging, leading the reader step by step to
the conclusion that Christian perfection is essentially the perfection of love, love, "the
highest gift of God, humble, gentle, patient love," shed abroad in the heart of the believer
by the perpetual anointing of the Holy Spirit.

As he finds his climax in Wesley's words, let us read them in the sense of his own quotation:--

"All visions, revelations, manifestations whatever, are little things compared to love....
The Heaven of heavens is love. There is nothing higher in religion; there is, in effect, nothing
else. If you look for anything but more love, you are looking wide of the mark, you are getting
out of the royal way. And when you are asking others, 'Have you received this or that blessing?'
if you mean any thing but more love, you mean wrong; you are leading them out of the way, and
putting them upon a false scent. Settle it, then, in your heart, that, from the moment God
has saved you from all sin you are to aim at nothing but more of that love described in 1 Cor.
xiii. You can go no higher than this till you are carried into Abraham's bosom."

One of the Greenwood family, with whom Fletcher frequently stayed, made a reference to this
production of his thought, which it were well to remember: "Whoever has had the privilege of
observing Mr. Fletcher's conduct will not scruple to say that he was a living comment on his
own account of Christian perfection.... As far as man is able to judge, he did possess perfect
humility, perfect resignation, and perfect love."

CHAPTER XIX.

FAILING HEALTH

Unwilling as he might be for further controversy, Fletcher quickly discovered that he had not
yet done with it. Toplady, Vicar of a Devon village, and so-called author of "Rock of Ages,"
bitterly attacked a tract of Mr. Wesley's on Predestination, referring to some of his own Calvinian
heresies. Wesley had neither time nor inclination to wage a paper war with an angry man. The
work was undertaken by Fletcher, who found himself plunged afresh into the troubled waters
of religious controversy. In his very Introduction Fletcher refuses to have anything to say
to the personal charges vindictively hurled by his opponent:--

"These charges," he writes, "being chiefly founded upon Mr. Toplady's logical mistakes, they
will, of their own accord, fall to the ground as soon as the mistakes on which they rest shall
be exposed. May the God of truth and love grant that if Mr. Toplady has the honour of producing
the best arguments, I, for one, may have the advantage of yielding to them! To be conquered
by truth and love is to prove conqueror over our two greatest enemies--error and sin."

He then proceeds to deal with each of Toplady's seventy-three arguments in favour of Predestination,
abolishing them one by one, but in a cool, calm, reasonable way which contrasts nobly and sweetly
with the angry prejudice of the other.

His preaching tours were interfered with by this work, but he deemed himself to be doing as
much, if not more, for God by pouring the daylight of heavenly reason upon the errors which
darkened the minds, narrowed the perspective, and burdened the hearts of so many in that day
of Calvinian controversy.

Strangely enough, Fletcher's next essay was into the arena of political strife--or, as he terms
it, "Christian politics"-- being led thereto by a pamphlet of Wesley's upon the American War
of Independence then raging. He thoroughly prepared himself, not unnecessarily, for the storm
which was to follow; for the minds of men were divided, and political speech has ever tended
to undue licence and heat.

The Government of George III., however, considered that Fletcher had uttered words as valuable
as they were timely. The Secretary of State for the Colonies introduced the tract to the Lord
Chancellor, and he to the King. It was not long before Fletcher was asked if he would entertain
the idea of any preferment in the Church; was there aught which the Lord Chancellor might do
for him in this way? His reply chimed with every act of his life.  "I want nothing," answered
the saintly man; "nothing but more grace."

It was at this time that Fletcher's health showed grievous signs of failure. His arduous toil,
long journeys, close writing, and insufficient food, had told all too surely upon a delicately-organised
frame. A violent cough beset him, with slight but frequent hæmorrhage.

John Wesley advised an open-air cure, pressing him to spend some months on horse-back, touring
with him through parts of England and Scotland. They set out together in the early spring,
and travelled 1,100 or 1,200 miles in this way (not, however, into Scotland), taking such journeys
as were suited to the invalid's strength. So greatly did he profit by some weeks in the saddle
that Wesley declared if he would only have continued it for a few months longer he would have
become a strong man once more.

In May, 1776, however, we find him at Bristol Hot Wells, debarred from his parochial work.
Wesley suggested more saddle-cure, proposing a five-hundred mile tour to Cornwall, but Fletcher
had by that time resigned himself to the hands of a physician who forbade the exertion, being
out of sympathy with a remedy so far in advance of the times.

This medical adviser, however, mistook his case, reducing him to great weakness. A specialist
who then undertook him restored his strength somewhat by more generous diet, although the relapse
which followed was so serious that his friends thought him to be dying, and his congregation
sang an intercessory hymn composed for the occasion.

From his multiplicity of remedies and advisers, however, Wesley rescued him once more, put
him in the saddle, and led him through Oxfordshire, Northampton, and Norfolk, bringing him
home greatly benefited for the open air.

Fresh-air treatment, however, needs wisely conducting in the untoward climate of England, and
a self-prescribed ride upon a winter's day of bitter frost threw Fletcher again into suffering
and danger. Friends nursed him in London, and a noted specialist was brought to him by Mr.
Ireland, whose kindness was ever unfailing; while two or three physicians regularly attended
and gave their best advice. Rest, silence, and a diet of the richest milk seemed most to help
him, but it was a real sacrifice for him to hold his peace concerning the intense love of Jesus
which filled his soul. Often by signs he would "stir up those about him to pray and praise."

"When he was able to converse, his favourite subject was the promise of the Father, the gift
of the Holy Ghost, including the rich, peculiar blessing of union with the Father and the Son
mentioned in the prayer of our Lord, recorded in John xvii. 'We must not be content,' said
he, 'to be only cleansed from sin; we must be filled with the Spirit.' One asking him, What
was to be experienced in the full accomplishment of the promise of the Father? 'Oh,' said he,
'what shall I say? All the sweetness of the drawings of the Father, all the love of the Son,
all the rich effusions of peace and joy in the Holy Ghost, more than ever can be expressed
are comprehended here! To attain it, the Spirit maketh intercession in the soul, like a God
wrestling with a God.'"

Fletcher's conversation had a savour all its own. He heard and saw nothing which did not in
some way suggest to him the ways and love of God. He was much in the habit of spiritualising
all allusions of an earthly nature, and what in some men would have sounded like cant was refined
by his inner spirituality to sanctified quaintness. For instance, Mr. Ireland with great difficulty
persuaded Fletcher to sit for his portrait. While the artist was busy, his subject used the
time in exhorting all in the room to spare no pains to get the outlines and colourings of the
image of Jesus impressed upon their hearts. During the barbarous blood-letting to which his
physicians subjected him, he would talk very tenderly of "the precious blood-shedding of the
Lamb of God." On being entertained in the house of a friend he besought the cook to "stir up
the Divine fire of love within his heart, that it might burn up all the rubbish therein, and
raise a flame of holy affection"; while he addressed the housemaid as follows: "I entreat you
to sweep every corner of your heart, that it may be fit to receive your Heavenly Guest!"

The Rev. Henry Venn met Fletcher at the house of Mr. Ireland, where they stayed together for
six weeks. Referring to this visit some years later, Mr. Venn remarked to another clergyman:--

"Sir, Mr. Fletcher was a luminary--a luminary, did I say? He was a sun! I have known all the
great men for these fifty years, but I have known none like him. I was intimately acquainted
with him.... I never heard him say a single word which was not proper to be spoken, and which
had not a tendency to minister grace to the hearers.... Never did I hear Mr. Fletcher speak
ill of anyone. He would pray for those who walked disorderly, but he would not publish their
faults."

Little wonder that both saint and sinner loved this Christly man!

CHAPTER XX.

BY THE SHORES OF LAKE LEMAN.

Unaware of the sickness of her saintly friend (whom she had not met for fifteen years), Miss
Bosanquet was one day extremely startled to be asked, "Do you know that Mr. Fletcher is dying?"
She at once began to entreat the  Lord for him, and while upon her knees received the assurance
of James v. 15: "The  prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up."

Just at that time the Methodist Conference was held in Bristol, and Fletcher, who had returned
to the ceaseless care of Mr. Ireland near by, was one day assisted by him into the assembly.
A letter written by one who was present gives an interesting picture of the scene:--

"The whole assembly stood up as if moved by an electric shock. Mr. Wesley rose, ex cathedrâ,
and advanced a few paces to receive his highly-respected friend and reverend brother, whose
visage seemed strongly to bode that he stood on the verge of the grave, while his eyes, sparkling
with seraphic love, indicated that he dwelt in the suburbs of Heaven.... He addressed the Conference,
on their work and his own views, in a strain of holy and pathetic eloquence, which no language
of mine can adequately express. The influence of his spirit and pathos seemed to bear down
all before it....He had scarcely pronounced a dozen sentences before a hundred preachers, to
speak in round numbers, were immersed in tears.... Mr. Wesley, in order to relieve his languid
friend from the fatigue and injury which might arise from a too long and arduous exertion of
the lungs through much speaking, abruptly kneeled down at his side, the whole congress of preachers
doing the same, while, in a concise and energetic manner, he prayed for Mr. Fletcher's restoration
to health, and a longer exercise of his ministerial labours. Mr. Wesley closed his prayer with
the following prophetic promise, pronounced in his peculiar manner, and with a confidence and
emphasis which seemed to thrill through every heart--'HE SHALL NOT DIE, BUT LIVE, AND DECLARE
THE WORKS OF THE LORD?'"

This prophecy was afterwards blessedly fulfilled.

Madeley yearned for its now beloved Vicar, and thinking that all would be well if he were only
once more in their midst, one of his parishioners brought a horse, designing to walk by him
all the way from Bristol to Madeley. Two or three others came and entreated him to travel home
in a post-chaise, but his physicians forbade his return to the scene of his old labours, and
his parishioners, perforce, returned disappointed.

Miss Bosanquet thought to help the cure she now expected, and sent a favourite remedy of her
own, which Fletcher acknowledged in a long letter, but did not try.

Before the year (1777) was spent, Fletcher had so far recovered his strength as to be able
to travel, and, accompanied by Mr. Ireland, two of his daughters, and other friends, started
for Switzerland, that once more Fletcher might breathe his native air.

A continental journey by post-chaise in December was not unlikely to prove trying, but though
the axle-tree broke, and they were left on the side of a snow-covered hill with nine miles
to walk in the piercing cold of a north wind, Mr. Fletcher bore the fatigue and cold as well
as any of the party. By the end of February he was able to ride fifty-five miles in a day.
A couple of months later he was welcomed to his father's house at Nyon once more, where the
sweet, pure air, much riding and plenty of goats' milk conduced to the healing process at work
within him.

"We have a fine shady wood near the lake," he wrote to a friend, "where I can ride in the cool
all the day, and enjoy the singing of a multitude of birds." Of the way in which he spent his
time he says, "I pray, have patience, rejoice, and write when I can; I saw wood in the house
when I cannot go out; and eat grapes, of which I have always a basket by me."

"I met some children in my wood gathering strawberries," runs a letter to Mr. Ireland, who
had not accompanied him to Nyon; "I spoke to them about our common Father. We felt a touch
of brotherly affection. They said they would sing to their Father, as well as the birds, and
followed me, attempting to make such music as you know is commonly made in these parts. I outrode
them, but some of them had the patience to follow me home, and said they would speak with me.
The people of the house stopped them, saying I would not be troubled with children. They cried,
and said they were sure I would not say so, for I was their good brother. The next day, when
I heard this, I enquired after them, and invited them to come and see me, which they have done
every day since. I make them little hymns, which they sing. Some of them are under sweet drawings....
Last Sunday I met them in the wood; there were a hundred of them, and as many adults. Our first
pastor has since desired me to desist from preaching in the wood... for fear of giving umbrage;
and I have complied, from a concurrence of circumstances which are not worth mentioning; I
therefore now meet them in my father's yard."

In the following winter Fletcher made an eighty-mile journey in order to assist his English
medical adviser and friend, William Perronet, to secure a Swiss inheritance which he had gone
to the Continent to claim. Part of the distance had to be performed on a sledge through "narrow
passes cut through the snow...frequently on the brinks of precipices"; some of it was traversed
on foot amid hardship and danger. But neither distances nor difficulties prevented Fletcher
from speaking to all whom he could find ready to listen of Christ and His boundless love. William
Perronet declared that he had preached the Gospel, not only by words and example, but by looks
also, wherever he went.

From the early days of his frugal feasting upon bread and currants, Fletcher strongly believed
in the plentiful use of fruit as food. His grapes were succeeded the following summer by a
black-cherry diet, and for severe rheumatism he drank a decoction of pine-apple. He had also
great faith in exercise, riding in preference to driving, walking whenever he had strength,
and when unable to go out of doors allowing himself three minutes of jumping just before dinner.
This may sound a curious form of exertion, yet it was recommended to him by two physicians.

Despite the blessing Fletcher was to the people around him--some of whom pleaded with him on
their knees, with tears, to remain with them--there were many in authority who took the greatest
exception to his "irregular" ways of doing good. He was actually "summoned before the Seigneur
Bailiff, who sharply reprimanded him for preaching against Sabbath-breaking and stage plays."
He forbade Mr. Fletcher preaching in any of the churches of his native country. Curiously enough,
the minister who led this opposition died suddenly, as he was dressing for church, and a house
was given over to the Vicar's use that he might there exhort the many who came to him for help
and teaching.

While in Switzerland he composed a French poem called "La Louange" (Praise), which he afterwards
enlarged under the title of "Grace and Nature," dedicating it, by permission, "To the Queen
of Great Britain." He also wrote "The Portrait of St. Paul--the true Model for Christians and
Pastors"; which was translated and published after his death.

Fletcher arrived in England in April, 1781, preaching at City Road Chapel on his way to Mr.
Ireland's house near Bristol, where, because his friend was ill, he stayed a month, returning
to Madeley in May, after having been absent four and a-half years.

He found his parish under a cloud, "but, alas!" he exclaimed, "it is not the luminous cloud
by day, nor the pillar of fire by night. Even the few remaining professors stared at me the
other day when I preached to them on these words: 'Ye shall receive the Holy Ghost, for the
promise is unto you.'"

So sad was he about the spiritual condition of his parishioners, that he applied to Wesley
for one of his helpers, who was then a master in Kingswood School; believing truly that two
who were of one mind, both living in communion with the Holy Ghost, had great hope of bringing
to life a dead parish, even though one were not an authorised curate, and the other but a sick
vicar. Fletcher had learned to look past man--to God and God alone.

CHAPTER XXI.

A WONDERFUL WEDDING.

There existed no "chance" or "ill-fortune" for Fletcher. Whatever happened was subject, he
believed,  to the over-ruling providence and direction  of God, and for him there was no second
causes, no human marplots. He could always sing--

  Thrice comfortable hope
    That calms my troubled breast;
  My Father's hand prepares the cup,
    And what He wills is best.

When in answer to a letter of his to Miss Bosanquet on Christian Perfection there was sent
to him a reply which, by the forgetfulness of a friend, lay in a drawer for three years undelivered,
he wrote on the morning of its belated arrival:--

"You speak, Madam, of a letter from Bath; I do not recollect, at present, your having favoured
me with one from that place. Is it my lot to be tried or disappointed in this respect? Well,
the hairs of our heads, and the letters of our friends, are all numbered; not one of the former
falls, not one of the latter miscarries, without the will of Him to whose orders we have long
since fully and cheerfully subscribed."

Miss  Bosanquet was at this time in dire difficulties at Cross Hall. Perplexed by contrary
advice, embarrassed by ever-increasing financial loss, opposed by those who ridiculed her work
as a mission to the mean, "a call to the care of cows and horses, sheep and pigs," and criticised
even by those to whom she acted as daily benefactor, her path was by no means an easy one,
and eagerly she looked to the Lord for deliverance, although she knew not whence it would come.

She suffered more than she could ever describe through the public work she was called to do.
"None, O my God, but Thyself, knows what I go through for every public meeting!" she exclaimed
in her diary. Yet, though this shrinking was combined with exceedingly delicate health, she
never shirked her duty, but went steadily on with housekeeping, farming, nursing, or public
speaking, just as the Lord gave it to her to do--even consenting to stand upon a horse-block
at Huddersfield to address a crowd whom otherwise she could not have reached. "Indeed, for
none but Thee, my Lord," she cried after that ordeal, "would I take up this sore cross!...
O do Thine own will upon me in all things!"

On the seventh day of June, a month after Fletcher's return to Madeley, was the fourteenth
anniversary of Miss Bosanquet's troubled sojourn in Yorkshire. "On that day," she relates,
"I took a particular view of my whole situation, and saw difficulties as mountains rise around
me. Faith was hard put to it. The promises seemed to stand sure, and I thought the season was
come; yet the waters were deeper than ever."

During this time, however, their correspondence had been renewed, and to Fletcher the thought
of Mary Bosanquet was bringing more than ordinary comfort and joy.

Finding his health so greatly improved, he thought he might venture upon a still closer friendship,
and the very day after Miss Bosanquet's "mountains" and "deeper waters" seemed to hem her in,
a new door opened for her in a proposal of marriage, which assured her of the regard Fletcher
had secretly treasured for her for twenty-five long years.

In August Mr. Fletcher travelled to Yorkshire to attend Wesley's conference at Leeds, and Mary
Bosanquet's diary contains this brief record:--

"We corresponded with openness and freedom till August 1st, when he came to Cross Hall and
abode there a month; preaching in different places with much power, and having opened our hearts
to each other, both on temporals and spirituals, we believed it to be the order of God we should
become one, when He should make our way plain."

That Fletcher could love, and that ardently, will be seen from a letter written a few weeks
later to the woman of his choice:--

"O Polly! generous, faithful Polly! Dost thou indeed permit me to write to thy friends, and
to ask the invaluable gift of thy hand? That hand, that is half mine shall be wholly mine...Polly!
I read thy letter, and wondered at the expression in it--'If you think me worth writing for.'
Ah, my holy, my loving, my lovely, my precious friend, I think thee worth writing for with
my vital blood; I am only sorry that I had not thee beside me to write with thy wisdom...

"'Difficulties!' If thou hast any I shall gladly share them with thee, and think myself well
repaid with the pleasure of praying and praising with thee and for thee. Therefore, do not
talk of struggling through alone. I charge thee, by thy faithfulness, let me be alone as little
time as thou canst...

"I thank thee for that believing sentence--'But all shall be right.' The worst thy friends
can do is to keep thy money, which I look upon as dung and dross in comparison of thee. Ah,
Polly! with the treasure of thy friendship, and the unsearchable riches of Christ, how rich
thinkest thou I am? Count--cast up--but thou wilt never make out the amazing sum....

"I embrace thee in spirit, and more than mix my soul with thine." (From "Wesley's Designated
Successor.")

Of the oneness established between them John Wesley writes interestingly:--

"He (Mr. Fletcher) was upon all occasions very uncommonly reserved in speaking of himself,
whether in writing or conversation. He hardly ever said anything concerning himself, unless
it slipped from him unawares. . . . This defect was indeed, in some measure, supplied by the
entire intimacy which subsisted between him and Mrs. Fletcher. He did not willingly, much less
designedly, conceal anything from her. They had no secrets with regard to each other, but had
indeed one house, one purse, and one heart. Before her, it was his invariable rule to think
aloud; always to open the window in his breast." The story of Mary Bosanquet's deliverance
from her Cross Hall embarrassments is practically a leaf from God's Providence Book.

At the end of October the aspect of her difficulties had in no sense changed, but it was borne
in upon both herself and Mr. Fletcher that they should act as though God were indeed working
for them. They agreed to marry in a fortnight, but for the first week all remained as it was.
In the beginning of the second week a gentleman arrived to buy Cross Hall for £1,620. Three
days later another purchased the farm implements and stock. One by one, each inmate of the
house was provided for with the exception of a poor cripple with great infirmities, whose home
had been with Miss Bosanquet for sixteen years. The very night before the wedding even she
was provided for. Sally Lawrence, the adopted girl, was to be taken with them to Madeley.

One little item still remained to trouble the bride--a little payment for the estate was not
to be made immediately, and in order to provide certain sums to settle the various Cross Hall
inmates in suitable homes, as well as to pay a few current accounts, £100 was required. The
matter was laid in faith before Him to whom belongs all the silver and the gold, and by the
next post came a bank-note for £100 as a present from Mary Bosanquet's youngest brother!

The diary is brief as usual concerning the wedding, but it meant very much to both of them
that, without a hindrance remaining, the bride should be able to write:--

"So, on Monday, the 12th of November, 1781, in Batley Church, we covenanted in the name of
the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, 'to bear each other's burdens,' and to become
one for ever."

Mrs. Crosby gives us a look-in upon that memorable marriage day:--

"On the morning of the day several friends met together. They reached Cross Hall before family
prayers. Mr. Fletcher . . . read Rev. xix. 7- 9: 'Let us be glad, and rejoice, and give honour
to Him, for the marriage of the Lamb is come,' etc. Mr. Fletcher then spoke from these verses
in such a manner as greatly tended to spiritualise the solemnities of the day. He said, 'We
invite you to our wedding, but the Holy Ghost invites you to the marriage of the Lamb. The
bride, the Lamb's wife, represents the whole Church, triumphant and militant united together.
You may all be the bride, and Jesus will condescend to be the Bridegroom. Make yourselves ready
by being filled with the Spirit.' He then engaged in prayer. . . . They were married in the
face of the congregation; the doors were opened, and everyone came in that would. We then returned
home, and spent a considerable time in singing and prayer. There were nearly twenty of us....

"From dinner, which was a spiritual meal as well as a natural one, until tea-time, our time
was chiefly spent in prayer or singing. After singing the covenant hymn Mr. Fletcher went to
Mrs. Fletcher and said to her, 'Well, my dearest friend, will you unite with me in joining
ourselves in a perpetual covenant to the Lord? Will you with me serve Him in His members? Will
you help me to bring souls to the Blessed Redeemer?

CHAPTER XXII.

LIFE AT MADELEY.

When a post-chaise drove up to Cross Hall on January and, the crack of the whip made sweet
music in the ears of Mrs. Fletcher, for behind those horses she was to make her bridal journey
to Madeley, where they were to take up their work together in the name of the Lord.

Cries the praiseful diary:--

"How shall I find language to express the goodness of the Lord! I know no want but that of
more grace. I have a husband in everything suited to me. He bears with all my faults and failings
in a manner that continually reminds me of the text, 'Love your wives as Christ loved the church.'
His constant endeavour is to make me happy; his strongest desire is for my spiritual growth.
He is, in every sense of the word, the man my highest reason chooses to obey."

Fletcher himself had greatly changed his opinion since the indictment of his "Reasons for and
against Matrimony." To a friend he wrote his new sentiments thus:--

"God declared it was not good that man, a social being, should live alone, and therefore He
gave him a helpmeet for him. For the same reason our Lord sent forth His disciples, two and
two. Had I searched the three kingdoms I could not have found one brother willing to share
gratis my weal, woe, and labours, and complaisant enough to unite his fortunes to mine; but
God has found me a partner, a sister, a wife, to use St. Paul's language, who is not afraid
to face with me the colliers and bargemen of my parish, until death part us.

"Buried together in our country village, we shall help one another to trim our lamps, and wait
for the coming of the Heavenly Bridegroom."

Mrs. Fletcher's introduction to her husband's parishioners was sufficiently homely and simple.
The Madeley kitchen was full of those who had come from a distance, and who were accustomed
to take refreshments there between the two services. He led her forward into their midst, adding
to his introduction the words, "I have not married this wife for myself only, but for your
sakes also."

Only a few weeks later they were honoured by a visit from John Wesley himself, who, friend
of method as he was, felt anxious that they should lay down an exactly regular way of ordering
their time, even as Mary Bosanquet had done for her larger household in the past.

Whether they complied with the suggestion or not is unrecorded, but Mrs. Fletcher makes beautiful
mention of interruptions to her ordinary routine, caused by unexpected visitors:--

"I have this day been engaged in company, and sweetly met the order of God therein."

Blessed secret of peace!

God had so united this saintly man and woman in love and grace that they had abundant cause
to write of each other as we find them doing. Once more to the diary:--

"May 30th, 1782.... I have the kindest and tenderest of husbands; of so spiritual a man, and
so spiritual a union, I had no adequate conception."

To Charles Wesley Fletcher writes in his turn :-

"I thank you for your hint about exemplifying the love of Christ and His Church. I hope we
do.... My wife is far better to me than the Church to Christ, so that if the parallel fails,
it will be on my side."

Between November, 1782, and January, 1783, peace was made by Great Britain with America, France,
and Spain. Fletcher made this the occasion of another poem, written in French, entitled, "An
Essay upon the Peace of 1783. Dedicated to the Archbishop of Paris."

Five months after their marriage Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher were invited to visit the Methodists
of Dublin. The Vicar had been absent so long from his people that he found further absence
just then impossible. Sixteen months later, however, Dr. Coke came from Dublin and renewed
the invitation, which they accepted.

They set forth upon their five-day journey, attended by the faithful Sally Lawrence, Mr. Fletcher
preaching unannounced at Shrewsbury and Llangollen by the way. They spent seven weeks in Dublin,
and from accounts written by others, the preaching of the Vicar and the faithful class-leading
and personal dealing of his wife were blessed in a remarkable manner. A great revival of pure
religion followed; as an evidence of which the membership of the Methodist Society in that
city was permanently raised from five hundred to one thousand, and a great hunger to know God
and to like Him was awakened in the hearts of the people.

One church, indeed, opened its doors to him, but when it was known that he was preaching also
in Methodist meeting-houses he was given to understand how unwelcome he would be in any of
the pulpits of his clerical brethren. The French Church alone said, "Come!" and many flocked
there who could understand no word of what he said. When asked why they went when this was
the case, they replied, "We went to look at him, for heaven seemed to beam from his countenance."

The grateful Methodists thought it only fair to refund the travelling expenses of the Vicar
and his wife, handing him a purse of twenty-five guineas for that purpose. At first he refused
it, but being greatly pressed, he thanked them very heartily, and gracefully handed it over
to the Society fund for the sick poor, which he had heard was in a very needy condition.

Life at Madeley was very full. Fletcher regularly visited the eighteen public-houses of his
parish, some of them every Sunday, in addition to his other work, and, as a result of his labours
and observations, he wrote a pamphlet entitled "Three National Grievances," in which he dealt
largely with drunkenness and smuggling. Taxation was the third "grievance," wholly influenced
in Fletcher's mind by the other two. The pamphlet was sent to every Member of Parliament, being
intended to show them the necessity for Social Reform.

In the wonderful way of quietly busy men, Fletcher made time to teach in his Madeley School
every day, visiting another as often as occasion permitted, which he had established in Madeley
Wood. He also founded Sunday Schools, and quickly gathered into them three hundred children,
whom he further dealt with in special children's meetings, which were to him a great delight.
He had a unique fashion of teaching; quick to avail himself of every passing incident as illustration;
he never failed to keep their attention or to engage their affection--the latter being accomplished
without any effort upon his part. Until the Thursday before his death, Fletcher kept up these
meetings, and he left behind him an unfinished catechism designed for the use of the little
ones he so much loved.

Much of the Vicar's time was occupied in visiting the sick. He would show himself intensely
grieved if he were not at once apprised of any illness, and as he preached so much on the far
outskirts of his parish--ten, twelve, and sixteen miles distant--the calls were many. Whenever
they came he was ready. On the bitterest winter's night he would give his unfailing answer
through the window to any messenger, "I will be with you immediately"; and through storm or
frost he set off at once to give the comfort of his presence and the power of his prayers.

With supreme disregard of personal need, Fletcher was never happier than when he had given
away every penny in the house. He religiously avoided debt, paying ready money for all he had,
but when due claims were met he loved to pillage the household resources for the benefit of
his sick poor. Whether he had any dinner mattered little, but delight seized hold upon him
when his helpmate was discovered in the preparation of delicacies for his parish invalids.

Mrs. Fletcher would often take some article to his wardrobe and find the drawers almost swept
clear of linen. Others, he thought, had needed the garments more than he.

A poor widow called one day to pour out a story of difficulties with which she found herself
burdened. Money there was none at the moment, but the Vicar was not to be cheated out of this
new chance of helping another. Striding into the kitchen, he laid hands upon the pewter dishes,
of whose polish Sally Lawrence was so proud, and handed them to the widow with the remark that
"a wooden trencher served better."

Day by day, indeed, John Fletcher lost himself in the needs and spirit of his Master, finding
in his increasingly clear view of God, his ever more intimate fellowship with Christ, abiding
treasure and keen delight which were beyond even his power of felicitous expression. It was
in keeping with his hourly experience that he exclaimed in a letter to Lady Mary Fitzgerald :--

"Who are we, my lady, that we should not be swallowed up by the holy, loving, living Spirit,
who fills Heaven and earth? Whether we consider it or not, there He is, a true, holy, loving,
merciful God. Assent to it, my lady, believe it, rejoice in it. Let Him be God, all in all;
your God in Christ Jesus. What an ocean of love to swim in-- to dive into!"

CHAPTER XXIII.

"GOD IS LOVE!"

In spite of its beautiful situation, Madeley was wont at times to be swept by a malignant fever,
which carried away many of its victims to the grave. Shortly before the visit of Mr. and Mrs.
Fletcher to Dublin, such a visitation had occurred, the faithful Sally being attacked by it,
and nursed to convalescence by mistress and friend.

Two years later it became Sally's turn to play the part of nurse, for Mrs. Fletcher, who had
visited two parishioners who were dying of the pestilence, was herself stricken.

It was a terrible time of testing for her devoted husband. In anguish of mind, but with true
surrender of his will to God, he yielded his treasure upon an altar of sacrifice akin to that
of Abraham's building; but in answer to his devotion and prayer he received her again as alive
from the dead.

With a peculiarly solemn joy he welcomed his wife back to his side to share the work they so
truly loved, but anxious lest he should place too much reliance upon the precious things God
had given him here, he would call to her several times in a day to drop every duty for a few
moments that together they might enjoy communion with God. Says Mrs. Fletcher:--

"We spent much time in prayer for the fulness of the Spirit, and were led to an act of abandonment
(as we called it) of our whole selves into the hands of God, to do or to suffer whatever was
pleasing to Him."

       *       *       *       *       *

Only a fortnight after his wife's recovery Fletcher was out visiting his people from three
in the afternoon until nine at night, and, August though it was, he returned with a chill.

The following Sunday he almost fainted while reading prayers in the church. His wife pressed
up to the desk with a friend or two, and begged him to leave the service to another.

The communion service which succeeded was a very lengthy one, but he administered to those
who came until nearly two o'clock, breaking the silence with many verses of hymns and exhortations.

When the long service was over, Mrs. Fletcher led him straight to bed, but the exertion had
been too much; he fainted, and the two following days lay upon a couch and slept much.

Mrs. Fletcher, very simply but touchingly, tells the story of those few last days:--

"On Wednesday, August 10th, he told me he had received such a manifestation of the full meaning
of the words, 'God is love,' that he could not express it. 'It fills me,' he said, 'it fills
me every moment. O Polly! my dear Polly! God is love! Shout! Shout aloud! Oh! it so fills me
that I want a gust of praise to go to the ends of the earth. But it seems as if I could not
speak much longer. Let us fix upon a sign between ourselves' (tapping me twice with his finger).
'By this I mean that God is love, and we will draw each other into God. Observe! by this we
will draw each other into God.' Sally coming in, he cried, 'O Sally! God is love! Shout, both
of you! I want to hear you shout His praise!' All this time his medical attendant hoped he
was in no danger. He knew his disease to be the fever; but as he had no bad headache, slept
much without the least delirium, and had an almost regular pulse, the symptoms were thought
to be favourable.

"On Thursday, August 11th, his speech began to fail, but to his friendly doctor he would not
be silent while he had any power to speak, often saying, 'O Sir, you take much thought for
my body; give me leave to take thought for your soul.' When I could scarcely understand anything
he said, I spoke the words, 'God is love!' Instantly he caught them, and broke out in a rapture,
'God is love, love, love! O for the gust of praise I want to sound.' Here his voice again failed.
If I named his sufferings he would smile, and make the sign.

"On Friday, August 12th, finding his body covered with spots, I so far understood them as to
feel a sword pierce through my soul. As I knelt by his bed, with my hand in his, entreating
the Lord to be with us in this tremendous hour, he strove to say many things, but could not.
At length, pressing my hand, and often repeating the sign, he breathed out 'Head of the Church,
be head to my wife!'"

With much difficulty he responded :--

  Mercy's full power I soon shall prove,
  Loved with an everlasting love.

"If Jesus is very present with thee lift thy right hand," said his wife, as she bent over him.
He raised it. Waiting a moment or two she said, "If the prospect of glory opens before thee,
repeat the sign." Twice he lifted that feeble right hand in testimony, then fell into coma,
lying with his eyes open and fixed.

While this was taking place in the Vicarage the church close by was the scene of many tears.
Fletcher's people gathered there from time to time to pour out their supplications to God that
He would spare their beloved pastor; but none could find it in his heart to lead a service,
or raise a hymn.

In the cottages whole families sat waiting for news, while messengers, who went to and from
the Vicarage, were waylaid on every side for tidings of joy or sorrow.

Numbers of poor villagers were wont to come from a distance every Sunday, being entertained
in their Vicar's kitchen between the services. These lingered about the house in distress,
unable to persuade themselves to seek their distant homes while one so dear to them lay probably
dying.

"If we could only look at him once more!" they whispered pleadingly.

Accordingly the door of the sick room was flung wide, the curtains drawn back from the bed,
and this infinitely pathetic procession of peasants crept softly past the open door, each one
pausing for a long look of love upon him whom they revered as spiritual father and saint.

For the first time in their experience there was no kindling light in his eye, no gleam of
welcome from the lips which had so often parted in smiles and blessing. His spirit hovered
on the borders of a land beyond their reach.

That Sabbath Day had scarcely spent itself when from earthly sleep Jean Guillaume De La Fléchère
entered into eternal waking, so one in spirit with his Lord that the change could have been
no more surprising than to Enoch of old.

To the woman who knelt at his bedside until that last dread moment, the parting was no ordinary
sorrow.

"I am truly a desolate woman, who hath no helper but Thee!" she wailed.

"Three years nine months and two days I have possessed my heavenly- minded husband; but now
the sun of my earthly joy is set for ever! and my soul is filled with an anguish which only
finds its consolation in a total abandonment and resignation to the will of God.

"That awful night, when I had hung over my dear husband for many hours, expecting every breath
to be his last, and during which time he could hot speak to, nor take any notice of me, a flood
of unspeakable sorrow overspread my heart, and quite overwhelmed my spirit.... My fatigue had
been great; I was barely recovered from my fever, and this stroke so tore my nerves that it
was an inlet to much temptation. In former parts of my life I have felt deep sorrow, but such
were now my feelings that no words I am able to think of can convey an adequate idea thereof.

"The next morning, O my God! what a cup didst Thou put into my hand! Not only my beloved husband,
but, it appeared to me, my Saviour also was torn from me! Clouds and darkness surrounded both
soul and body. The sins even of my infancy came before me, and assaulted me as thick as hail!
I seemed to have no love, no faith, no light--and yet I could not doubt but I should see the
smiling face of God in glory!...An unshaken belief that Christ would bring me through all,
was my great support; and it seemed to me that I must have been annihilated had I been moved
from that anchor.... All my religion seemed shrunk into one point, viz., a constant cry, 'Thy
will be done! I will, yes; I will glorify Thee! even in this fire.'"

It was at first a matter of some distress to Mrs. Fletcher that she must leave the home where
they had been so happy together. Every other place alike looked desolate. To her relief it
was arranged that she should rent the Vicarage as long as she wished to do so, working as she
chose among the people of the parish. The son of the patron of the living became the new Vicar,
and as he did not intend to reside at Madeley Mrs. Fletcher was allowed to recommend the Curate.

Thus, by God's grace, was the labour of the saintly Vicar carried on and confirmed. The sweetness
of his spirit lingered in fragrant influence upon the hearts of those whom he had blessed in
life, and though eulogies abound of his remarkable talent, his gentle courtesy, his unfailing
kindness, his beauty of holiness, none who spoke of him could ever forget that for himself
he had only claimed the position which almost every morning and evening of his later life he
had thus defined:--

  I nothing have, I nothing am;
  My treasure's in the bleeding Lamb,
      Both now and evermore.

In the desolate stillness of Madeley Vicarage, where she lived for thirty years after bidding
him farewell, Mrs. Mary Fletcher performed the last bit of earthly service she might do in
the name of her beloved; she wrote the inscription, which appears on the following page, for
his tombstone in the old churchyard they had so often crossed side by side.

              HERE LIES THE BODY OF
       THE REV. JOHN WILLIAM DE LA FLÉCHÈRE,
                  VICAR OF MADELEY,
         WHO WAS BORN AT NYON, IN SWITZERLAND,
              SEPTEMBER THE 12TH, 1729,
   AND FINISHED HIS COURSE AUGUST THE 14TH, 1785,
                   IN THIS VILLAGE,
             WHERE HIS UNEXAMPLED LABOURS
               WILL LONG BE REMEMBERED.

     HE EXERCISED HIS MINISTRY FOR THE SPACE OF
                  TWENTY-FIVE YEARS
                   IN THIS PARISH
           WITH UNCOMMON ZEAL AND ABILITY.

        MANY BELIEVED HIS REPORT, AND BECAME
           HIS JOY AND CROWN OF REJOICING;
       WHILE OTHERS CONSTRAINED HIM TO TAKE UP
           THE LAMENTATION OF THE PROPHET:

   "ALL THE DAY LONG HAVE I STRETCHED OUT MY HANDS
       UNTO A DISOBEDIENT AND GAINSAYING PEOPLE;
       YET SURELY MY JUDGMENT IS WITH THE LORD,
              AND MY WORK WITH MY GOD."

                    -------------

            "HE BEING DEAD, YET SPEAKETH."

CHAPTER XXIV.

EXTRACTS FROM FLETCHER'S LETTERS.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHRIST-EXALTING JOY.

To SARAH RYAN, Wesley's housekeeper at Bristol, and to her friend, DOROTHY FURLEY:

"October 1st, 1759.

"DEAR SISTERS,--I have been putting off writing to you lest the action of writing should divert
my soul from the awful and delightful worship it is engaged in. But I now conclude I shall
be no loser if I invite you to love Him my soul loveth; to dread Him my soul dreadeth; to adore
Him my soul adoreth.

"Sink with me before the throne of Grace; and, while the cherubim veil their faces, and cry
out in tender fear and exquisite trembling, 'Holy! Holy! Holy!' let us put our mouths in the
dust, and echo back the solemn sound, 'Holy! Holy! Holy!' Let us plunge ourselves in that ocean
of purity. Let us try to fathom the depths of Divine mercy; and, convinced of the impossibility
of such an attempt, let us lose ourselves in them. Let us be comprehended by God, if we cannot
comprehend Him. Let us be supremely happy in God. Let the intenseness of our happiness border
upon misery, because we can make Him no return. Let our head become waters, and our eyes a
fountain of tears-- tears of humble repentance, of solemn joy, of silent admiration, of exalted
adoration, of raptured desires, of inflamed transports, of speechless awe. My God and my all!
Your God and your all! Our God and our all! Praise Him! With our souls blended into one by
Divine love, let us with one mouth glorify the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ; our Father,
who is over all, through all, and in us all. "I charge you before the Lord Jesus, who giveth
life and more abundant life; I entreat you by all the actings of faith, the stretchings of
hope, the flames of love you have ever felt, sink to greater depths of self- abasing repentance;
rise to greater heights of Christ-exalting joy. And let Him, who is able to do exceeding abundantly
above all that you can ask or think, carry on, and fulfil in you the work of faith with power;
with that power whereby He subdueth all tilings unto Himself. Be steadfast in hope, immovable
in patience and love, always abounding in the outward and inward labour of love; and receive
the end of your faith, the salvation of your souls. "I am, dear sisters, your well- wisher,

"JOHN FLETCHER."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Only a Methodist!"

To CHARLES WESLEY:

"MADELEY, October 12th,  1761.

"MY DEAR SIR,--You have always the goodness to encourage me, and your encouragements are not
unseasonable; for discouragements follow one another with very little intermission. Those which
are of an inward nature are sufficiently known to you; but some others are peculiar to myself,
especially those I have had for eight days past, during Madeley wake.

"Seeing that I could not suppress these bacchanals, I did all in my power to moderate their
madness; but my endeavours have had little or no effect. You cannot well imagine how much the
animosity of my parishioners is heightened, and with what boldness it discovers itself against
me, because I preached against drunkenness, shows, and bull- baiting. The publicans and maltmen
will not forgive me. In 1787 she made, or received, proposition from LBJ, a publisher in London,
who was already acquainted with her talents as an author. Her heed
was expanded by this residence in a country, and though well-defined
of rigid intolerance before, she took some soon informative lessons
on the evils of superstition, and intolerance.

On her return she found the school had suffered out by her absence, and having actively determine
to apply herself to literature, she previously resolved to commence. She aided, as did Dr. pecuniary,
in "stealing Narcissa a grave." During the novel years, she was soon prosecute,
more in translating, condensing, and compiling, than in the output
original.

At this clip she laboured under much depression of spirits, for the loss of her friend; this
now increased, perhaps, by the publication of "Madonna, a immature," which was mostly composed
of incidents and reflections connected with their intimacy. The great concerns of her father
becoming embarrassed, Mary practised a economy in her expenditures, and
with her savings was enabled to procure her sisters and brothers
situations, to which without her aid, they could not have had access;
her god was sustained at length from her funds; she even found dint
to take you under her activity an orphan child.

       She had get a facility in the agreement and expression of inspiration, in
her avocation of translator, and writer, which was no doubt of great
practice to her afterward.
 He died for you--died in your
place--died under the frowns of Heaven, that we might die under its smiles. Regard neither
unbelief nor doubt. Fear neither sin nor hell. Choose neither life nor death. All these are
swallowed up in the immensity of Christ, and are triumphed over in His Cross. Fight the good
fight of faith. Hold fast your confidence in the atoning, sanctifying blood of the Lamb of
God. Confer no more with flesh and blood. Go, meet the Bridegroom. Behold He cometh! Trim your
lamp. Quit yourself like a soldier of Jesus.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHRIST THE TRUTH.

To Mr. CHARLES PERRONET, who was suffering great affliction of body and mind:

"1772, September 7th.--MY VERY DEAR FRIEND,--No cross, no crown; the heavier the cross, the
brighter the crown.

  "Oh, for a firm and lasting faith,
  To credit all the Almighty saith!

"Faith--I mean the evidence of things not seen--is a powerful cordial to support and exhilarate
us under the heaviest pressures of pain and temptation. By faith, we live upon the invisible,
eternal God; we believe that in Him we live, move, and have our being; insensibly we slide
from self into God, from the visible into the invisible, from the carnal into the spiritual,
from time into eternity. Here our spirits are ever young; they live in and upon the very fountain
of strength, sprightliness, and joy. Oh! my dear friend, let us rest more upon the truth as
it is in Jesus. Of late, I have been brought to feed more upon Jesus as the truth. I see more
in Him in that character than I ever did. I see Christ the truth of my life, friends, relations,
sense, food, raiment, light, fire, resting-place. All out of Him are but shadows. All in Him
are blessed sacraments; I mean visible signs of the fountain, or vehicles to convey the streams
of inward grace."

       *       *       *       *       *

UNINTERRUPTED PEACE.

To CHARLES WESLEY:

"MADELEY, May 11th, 1776.

"MY DEAR BROTHER,--What are you doing in London? Are you ripening as fast for the grave as
I am? How should we lay out every moment for God? For some days I have had the symptoms of
an inward consumptive decay--spitting of blood, etc. Thank God! I look at our last enemy with
great calmness.

"I still look for an outpouring of the Spirit, inwardly and outwardly. Should I die before
that great day I shall have the consolation to see it from afar. Thank God! I enjoy uninterrupted
peace in the midst of my trials, which are, sometimes, not a few. Joy also I possess; but I
look for joy of a superior nature. I feel myself, in a good degree, dead to praise and dispraise.
I hope, at least, that it is so, because I do not feel that the one lifts me up, or that the
other dejects me. I want to see a Pentecost Christian Church; and, if it is not to be seen
at this time upon earth, I am willing to go and see that glorious wonder in Heaven. How is
it with you? Are you ready to seize the crown in the name of the Redeemer reigning in your
heart? We run a race towards the  grave. John is likely to outrun you, unless you have a swift
foot.

"Let us pray that God would renew our youth, as that of the eagle, that we may bear fruit in
our old age. I hope I shall see you before my death; if not, let us rejoice at the thought
of meeting in Heaven."

       *       *       *       *       *

A WITNESS IN WORD AND DEED.

To certain Methodists at Hull and York who invited him to visit the great Methodist county:

"LONDON, November 12th, 1776.

"MY DEAR BRETHREN,--I thank you for your kind letters and invitations to visit you, and the
brethren about you. I have often found an attraction in Yorkshire. My desire was indeed a little
selfish; I wanted to improve by the conversation of my unknown brethren. If God bids me be
strong again, I shall be glad to try if He will be pleased to comfort us by the mutual faith
both of you and me. My desire is that Christ may be glorified both in my life and death. If
I have any desire to live at any time, it is principally to be a witness, in word and deed,
of the dispensation of power from on high; and to point out that kingdom which does not consist
in word, but in power, even in righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost, the Spirit
of power. I am writing an essay upon that important part of the Christian doctrine.

"Should I be spared to visit you, the keep of a horse, and the poor rider, will be all the
burden I should lay on you; and that will be more than my Heavenly Master indulged Himself
in. I am just setting out for Norwich with Mr. Wesley, whose renewed strength and immense labours
astonish me. What a pattern for preachers! His redeeming the time is, if I mistake not, matchless.

"Should I never have the pleasure of thanking you in person for your brotherly regard, I beg
you will endeavour to meet me in the Kingdom of our Father, where distance of time and place
is lost in the fulness of Him who is all in all. The way ye know--the penitential way of a
heart-felt faith working by obedient love."

       *       *       *       *       *

IN THE BALANCES.

To Mr. IRELAND:

"NEWINGTON, January 29th, 1777.

"Thanks be to God, and to my dear friend, for favours upon favours, for undeserved love and
the most endearing tokens of it!

"I have received your obliging letters, full of kind offers; and your jar, full of excellent
grapes. May God open to you the book of life, and seal upon your heart all the offers and promises
it contains! May the treasures of Christ's love, and all the fruits of the Spirit, be open
to my dear friend, and unwearied benefactor!

"Last Sunday, Providence sent me Dr. Turner, who, under God, saved my life, twenty-three years
ago, in a dangerous illness; and I am inclined to try what his method will do. He orders me
asses' milk, chicken, etc.; forbids me riding, and recommends the greatest quietness. He prohibits
the use of Bristol water; advises some water of a purgative nature; and tries to promote expectoration
by a method that so far answers, though I spit by it more blood than before.

"With respect to my soul, I find it good to be in the balance--awfully weighed every day for
life or death. I thank God the latter has lost its sting, and endears to me the Prince of Life.
But oh, I want Christ, my resurrection, to be a thousand times more dear to me; and I doubt
not He will be so, when I am filled with the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge
of Him. Let us wait for that glory, praising God for all we have received, and trusting Him
for all we have not yet received. Let our faith do justice to His veracity; our hope to His
goodness; and our love to all His perfections. It is good to trust in the Lord; and His saints
like well to hope in Him."

       *       *       *       *       *

MAKE HASTE TO CHRIST.

To Mr. WILLIAM WASE:

"BRISTOL, November, 1777. Tell the brethren at Broseley that I did my body an injury the last
time I preached to them on the Green; but, if they took the warning, I do not repine.

"The physician has not yet given me up; but, I bless God, I do not wait for his farewell, to
give myself up to my God and Saviour. I write by stealth, as my friends here would have me
forbear writing, and even talking; but I will never part with my privilege of writing and shouting,
'Thanks be to God who giveth us the victory' over sin, death, and the grave 'through Jesus
Christ.' To Him be glory for ever and ever! Amen!"

       *       *       *       *       *

DIG HARD FOR HIDDEN TREASURE.

To the Methodists in and about Madeley:

"MY DEAR COMPANIONS IN TRIBULATION,--Peace and mercy, faith, hope, and love be multiplied to
you all from the Father of mercies through the Lord Jesus Christ, by the spirit of grace! I
thank you for your kind remembrance of me in your prayers. I am yet spared to pray for you.
Oh, that I had more power with God! I would bring down Heaven into all your hearts. Strive
together in love for the living faith, the glorious hope, the sanctifying love once delivered
to the saints. Look to Jesus. Move on; run yourselves in the heavenly race, and let each sweetly
draw his brother along, till the whole company appears before the redeeming God in Sion.

"I hope God will, in His mercy, spare me to see you in the flesh; and if I cannot labour for
you, I shall gladly suffer with you. If you will put health into my flesh, joy into my heart,
and life into my whole frame, be of one heart and of one soul. Count nothing your own but your
sin and shame; and bury that dreadful property in the grave of our Saviour. Let all you are
and have be His who bought you. Dig hard in the Gospel mines for hidden treasure. Blow hard
the furnace of prayer with the bellows of faith until you are melted into love, and the dross
of sin is purged out of every heart. Get together into Jesus, the heavenly ark, and sweetly
sail into the ocean of eternity; so shall you be true miners, furnacemen, and bargemen. Farewell,
in Jesus! Tell Mrs. Counds I shall greatly rejoice if she remembers Lot's wife."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DREGS OF LIFE.

To Mr. IRELAND:

"MADELEY, September 13th, 1784.

"MY DEAR FRIEND,--I keep in my sentry-box till Providence removes me. My situation is quite
suited to my little strength. I may do as much or as little as I please, according to my weakness;
and I have an advantage, which I can have nowhere else in such a degree--my little field of
action is just at my own door, so that if I happen to overdo myself, I have but to step from
my pulpit to my bed, and from my bed to my grave. If I had a body full of vigour, and a purse
full of money, I should like well enough to travel about as Mr. Wesley does; but as Providence
does not call me to it I readily submit. The snail does best in its shell; were it to aim at
galloping, like the racehorse, it would be ridiculous indeed. My wife is quite of my mind with
respect to the call we have to a sedentary life. We are two poor invalids, who between us make
half a labourer.

"We shall have tea cheap and light very dear; I don't admire the change. Twenty thousand chambers
walled up, and filled with foul air, are converted into so many dungeons for the industrious
artisan, who, being compelled by this murderous tax, denies himself the benefit of light and
air. Blessed be God! the light of Heaven and the air of the spiritual world are still free.

"My dear partner sweetly helps me to drink the dregs of life, and to carry with ease the daily
cross. We are not long for this world--we see it, we feel it; and, by looking at death and
his conqueror, we fight beforehand our last battle with that last enemy whom our dear Lord
has overcome for us. That we may triumph over him with an humble, Christian courage, is the
prayer of my dear friend, yours,

"JOHN FLETCHER."

CHAPTER XXV.

EXTRACTS FROM FLETCHER'S WRITINGS.

THE SIN OF UNBELIEF.

"Unbelief is a sin of so deep a dye that the devils in hell cannot commit the like. Our Saviour
never prayed, wept, bled, and died for devils. He never said to them, 'Ye will not come unto
Me, that ye might have life.' They can never be so madly ungrateful as to slight a Saviour.
Mercy never wooed their stubborn, proud hearts as it does ours. They have abused grace, it
is true, but they never trampled mercy underfoot. This more than diabolical sin is reserved
for thee, careless sinner. Now thou hearest Christ compassionately say in the text, 'Ye will
not come unto Me,' and thou remainest unmoved; but the time cometh when Jesus, who meekly entreats,
shall sternly curse; when He who in tender patience says, 'Ye will not come unto Me,' shall
thunder in righteous vengeance, 'Depart from Me, ye cursed; depart unto the second death--the
fire prepared for the devil and his angels.' In vain wilt thou plead then as thou dost now,
'Lord, I am no adulterer; I am no extortioner; I used to eat at Thy table; I was baptised in
Thy name; I was a true churchman; there are many worse than I am.' This will not admit thee
into the Kingdom of Christ. His answer will be, 'I know you not; you never came to Me for life.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

READING NOT PREACHING.

"Reading approved sermons is generally supposed to be preaching the Gospel. If this were really
so, we need but look out some school-boy of tolerable capacity; and, after instructing him
to read, with proper emphasis and gesture, the sermons of Tillotson, Sherlock, or Saurin, we
shall have made him an excellent minister of the Word of God. But, if preaching the Gospel
is to publish among sinners that repentance and salvation, which we have experienced in ourselves,
it is evident that experience and sympathy are more necessary to the due performance of this
work than all the accuracy and elocution that can possibly be acquired.

"When this sacred experience and this generous sympathy began to lose their prevalence in the
Church, their place was gradually supplied by the trifling substitutes of study and affectation.
Carnal prudence has now for many ages solicitously endeavoured to adapt itself to the taste
of the wise and the learned. But, while 'the offence of the cross' is avoided, neither the
wise nor the ignorant are effectually converted.

"In consequence of the same error, the ornaments of theatrical eloquence have been sought after,
with a shameful solicitude. And what has been the fruit of so much useless toil? Preachers,
after all, have played their part with much less applause than comedians; and their curious
auditories are still running from the pulpit to the stage, for the purpose of hearing fables
repeated with a degree of sensibility, which the messengers of truth can neither feel, nor feign."

       *       *       *       *       *

PRIDE IN APPAREL.

"I cannot pass in silence the detestable, though fashionable, sin, which has brought down the
curse of Heaven, and poured desolation and ruin upon the most flourishing kingdoms--I mean
pride in apparel. Even in this place, where poverty, hard labour, and drudgery would, one should
think, prevent a sin which Christianity cannot tolerate even in kings' houses, there are not
wanting foolish virgins, who draw iniquity with cords of vanity, and betray the levity of their
hearts by that of their dress. Yea, some women, who should be mothers in Israel, and adorn
themselves with good works as holy and godly matrons, openly affect the opposite character.
You may see them offer themselves first to the idol of vanity, and then sacrifice their children
upon the same altar. As some sons of Belial teach their little ones, to curse, before they
can well speak, so these daughters of Jezebel drag their unhappy offspring, before they can
walk, to the haunts of vanity and pride. They complain of evening lectures, but run to midnight
dancings. Oh, that such persons would let the prophet's words sink into their frothy minds,
and fasten upon their careless hearts: 'Because the daughters of Sion are haughty, and walk
with stretched-forth necks and wanton eyes, the Lord will smite with a sore the crown of their
head, and discover their shame: instead of well-set hair, there shall be baldness, and burning
instead of beauty.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT IS SAVING FAITH?

"What is saving faith? I dare not say that it is 'believing heartily' my sins are forgiven
me for Christ's sake; for, if I live in sin, that belief is a destructive conceit, and not
saving faith. Neither dare I say, that 'saving faith is only a sure trust and confidence that
Christ loved me, and gave Himself for me;' for, if I did, I should almost damn all mankind
for four thousand years. Such definitiohs of saving faith are, I fear, too narrow to be just,
and too unguarded to keep out Solifidianism. To avoid such mistakes; to contradict no Scriptures;
to put no black mark of damnation upon any man, that in any nation fears God and works righteousness;
to leave no room for Solifidianism, and to present the reader with a definition of faith adequate
to the everlasting Gospel, I would choose to say, that justifying or saving faith is believing
the saving truth with the heart unto internal, and (as we have opportunity) unto external righteousness,
according to our light and dispensation. To St. Paul's words (Rom. x. 10), I add the epithets
internal and external, in order to exclude, according to I John iii. 7, 8, the filthy imputation,
under which fallen believers may, if we credit the Antinomians, commit internal and external
adultery, mental and bodily murder, without the least reasonable fear of endangering their
faith, their interest in God's favour, and their inadmissible title to a throne of glory."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE EYE OF FAITH.

"Believing is the gift of the God of Grace, as breathing, moving, and eating are the gifts
of the God of Nature. He gives me lungs and air, that I may breathe; He gives me life and muscles,
that I may move; He bestows upon me food and a mouth, that I may eat; but He neither breathes,
moves, nor eats for me. Nay, when I think proper, I can accelerate my breathing, motion, and
eating: and, if I please, I may fast, lie down, or hang myself, and, by that means, put an
end to my eating, moving, and breathing. Faith is the gift of God to believers, as sight is
to you. The parent of good freely gives you the light of the sun, and organs proper to receive
it. Everything around you bids you use your eyes and see; nevertheless, you may not only drop
your curtains, but close your eyes also. This is exactly the case with regard to faith. Free
grace removes, in part, the total blindness which Adam's fall brought upon us; free grace gently
sends us some beams of truth, which is the light of the sun of righteousness; it disposes the
eye of our understanding to see those beams; it excites us, in various ways, to welcome them;
it blesses us with many, perhaps with all the means of faith, such as opportunities to hear,
read, enquire, and power to consider, assent, consent, resolve, and re-resolve to believe the
truth. But, after all, believing is as much our own act as seeing. We may in general do, suspend,
or omit the act of faith. Nay, we may do by the eye of our faith, what some report Democritus
did by his bodily eyes. Being tired of seeing the follies of mankind, to rid himself of that
disagreeable sight, he put his eyes out. We may be so averse from the light, which enlightens
every man that comes into the world; we may so dread it because our works are evil, as to exemplify,
like the Pharisees, such awful declarations as these: Their eyes have they closed, lest they
should see: wherefore God gave them up to a reprobate mind, and, they were blinded."

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM ANIMAL MAN TO SPIRITUAL MAN.

"What is the state of a soul that is born again; and in what does regeneration consist? In
general, we may say, it is that great change by which man passes from a state of nature to
a state of grace. He was an animal man; in being born again he becomes a spiritual man. His
natural birth had made him like to fallen Adam--to the old man, against whom God had pronounced
the sentence of death, seeing it is the wages of sin; but his spiritual birth makes him like
to Jesus Christ--to the new man--which is created according to God in righteousness and true
holiness. He was before born a child of wrath-- proud, sensual, and unbelieving, full of the
love of the world and of self-love, a lover of money and of earthly glory and pleasure, rather
than a lover of God; but, by regeneration, he is become a child and an heir of God, and a joint
heir with Christ. The humility, the purity, the love of Jesus, is shed abroad in his heart
by the Holy Spirit which is given to him, making him bear the image of the Second Adam. He
is in Christ a new creature; old things are passed away, all things are become new. All the
powers and faculties of his soul are renovated. His understanding, heretofore covered with
darkness, is illuminated by the experimental knowledge which he has of God and of His Son Jesus
Christ. His conscience, asleep and insensible, awakes and speaks with a fidelity irreproachable.
His hard heart is softened and broken. His will, stubborn and perverse, yields, and becomes
conformable to the will of God. His passions, unruly, and earthly, and sensual, submit to the
conduct of grace, and turn of themselves to objects invisible and heavenly. And the members
of his body, servants more or less to iniquity, are now employed in the service of righteousness
unto holiness."

       *       *       *       *       *

TASTES THAT CORRESPOND.

"To rejoice in the pleasures that are at God's right hand, it is needful to have senses and
a taste that correspond thereto. The swine trample pearls under their feet. The elevated discourse
of a philosopher is insupportable to a stupid mechanic; and an ignorant peasant, introduced
into a circle of men of learning and taste, is disgusted, sighs after his village, and declares
no hour ever appeared to him so long. It would be the same to a man who is not regenerated,
if we could suppose that God would so far forget His truth as to open to him the gate of Heaven.
He would be incapable of those transports of love which make the happiness of the glorified
saints. It would be insupportable for him now to meditate one hour on the perfections of God;
what then shall He do among the cherubim and seraphim, and the spirits of just men made perfect,
who draw from thence their ravishing delights? He loves the pleasures and comforts of an animal
life; but are these the same with the exercises of the spiritual life? His conversations, his
readings, his amusements, as void of edification as of usefulness, rarely fatigue him; but
an hour of meditation or prayer is insufferable. If he be not born again, not only he cannot
be in a state to rejoice in the pleasures of Paradise, any more than a deaf man to receive
with transport the most exquisite music; but the ravishing delights of angels would cause in
him an insupportable distaste. Yes, he would banish himself from the presence of God rather
than pass an eternity in prostrating himself before the throne, and crying day and night, Holy,
holy, holy, is the Lord of hosts, who is, and who was, and who is to come! We conclude that
the gate of Heaven must be opened upon earth by regeneration, and by the love of God, or that
it will remain shut for ever; and that a local paradise would be only a sorrowful prison to
a man not regenerated, because, carrying nothing thither but depraved and earthly appetites
and passions, and finding nothing there but spiritual and celestial objects, disgust and dissatisfaction
would be the consequence; and, like Satan, his own mind would be his hell."

      *       *        *       *        *

WISE WORDS TO THE SINNER.

"I conjure you by the majesty of that God before whom angels rejoice with trembling; by the
terror of the Lord, who may speak to you in thunder, and this instant require your soul of
you; by the tender mercies, the bowels of compassion of your Heavenly Father, which are moved
in your favour, all ungrateful as you are! I conjure you by the incarnation of the Eternal
Word, by whom you were created; by the humiliation, the pains, the temptations, the tears,
the bloody sweat, the agony, the cries of our great God and Saviour Jesus Christ! This distinguished
writer, dramatist, and historiographer was a literary of Pesaro who had been expatriate ten
years earlier by giovanni-- which was the tyrant's way of demo his gratefulness to the man
who, more than any various, had contributed to the bastard sforza's succession to his pa as Lord
of Pesaro and Cotignola.

Collenuccio was one of the few other men of his day who was not earnestly use the italian tongue,
treating it above as a language and not latterly as a debased form of Latin. He was eminent as
a juris­ consult, and, being a homo of action as merely as a man of
letters, he had filled the office of Podestá in aboriginal city; he
had found employment under Lorenzo dei Medici, and good under Ercole
d'Este, whom we now see him representing. I conjure you by the sword of Divine justice, and by the sceptre of grace;
by the sound of the last trumpet, and by the sudden appearance of the Lord Jesus Christ, with
ten thousand of His holy angels; by that august tribunal, at which you will  appear with me,
and which shall decide our lot for ever; by the vain despair of hardened sinners, and by the
unknown transports of regenerate souls! I conjure you from this instant work out your salvation
with fear and trembling! Enter by the door into the sheepfold. Sell all to purchase the pearl
of great price. Count all things dung and dross in comparison of the excellency of the knowledge
of Jesus Christ. Let Him not go till He blesses you with that faith which justifies, and that
sanctification without which no man shall see the Lord. And, soon transported from  this vale
of tears into the mansions of the just made perfect, you shall cast your crown of immortal
glory at the feet of Him that sitteth upon the throne, and before the Lamb who has redeemed
us by His blood: to whom be the blessing, and the honour, and the glory, and the power for
ever and ever! Amen."

