THE PROGRESSIVE DEMOCRACY OF JAMES M. COX

by Charles E. Morris Secretary to Governor Cox

CHAPTER I

THE NEED FOR A DOER

There come times in the affairs of men which call for "not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of
the work."  Such a time is at hand.  A great war, the most devastating in history, has been
concluded.  Its moral lesson has been taught by its master minds and learned in penitence,
we may hope, by the erring and wrongly willful.  But the fruits of victory are ungathered and
the beneficence of peace is not yet attained.  The call arises for a "doer of the work."

Two great political parties in the United States, both with splendid accomplishments behind
them and both with grave mistakes as well, have attempted to respond to this call, and America,
whose proudest boast is that it has always found a man for every great occasion, chooses between
them.  It is a solemn and serious hour.  For it has been America's special fortune that its
great teachers and leaders and doers have been found at just the proper time.

This knowledge of the certain right decision of our country is, we might almost say, a part
of its very fiber abiding with the persistency of a fixed idea, a part of the heritage of the
nation, scarcely needing to be taught in the schools, obvious even to the casual student from
an alien land.  For our historical records glow with the stories of the appearance of the man;
and the thought of a friendly destiny seems not easy to banish.  Time has given so often either
the inspired teacher of the word or the doer of the work that there is more than a faith and
a hope, nay almost a conviction, that it cannot fail now when the agonized appeal of the world
beckons America to complete her high mission to humanity upon which she embarked when she threw
her power and might on the scales in war.

Those who insist that the fulfillment of that mission lies in keeping the solemn promises make
in France, accepted by friend and foe alike, for a League of Nations to end war, to see that
retribution becomes not blind vengeance, to set the tribes of the earth again on their forward
journey, present as their leader James Monroe Cox, Governor of Ohio.

A party of traditions, a party that has directed in every critical period save one since the
Republic began, has said that he meets the requirements of the time.  That party chose him
because of his record for doing, because there was an inner conviction that he could enter
upon a still larger field with a growing, an ever-expanding capacity.

This, too, furnishes a fitter chapter in the history of country and party.  For the wise selection
of men, even obscure men, has been the tower of our national strength.  America had her Thomas
Jefferson to expound for all the world the real underlying truth of her Revolution.  The equality
of rights and duties spread from a dream of philosophers to be the doctrine of warriors for
freedom.  There was her George Washington to hold together the tenuous bands of freedom.  She
found her James Monroe to lay the foundations of the doctrine that stern moral precepts forbid
the violation of sovereign rights of the nations.  She brought forth her Andrew Jackson to
make the country in his time safe for democracy, and to establish for all time that no single
money baron, nor yet any collection of them, is superior to the power of all the people.

In later time she had her Abraham Lincoln, now in the judgment of the succeeding generations
but little beneath the Savior of men, preserver of the Union for its larger duties.  She had
in this day her Woodrow Wilson, builder of the newer policy of world union and recognized spokesman
of freedom in the death struggle with military autocracy.  It is of history that Lincoln and
Wilson both were stricken down with their work incomplete. After Lincoln there was no doer
of the work to finish his task and the evil of those who perverted the exalted purpose of the
Civil War continues even unto this day.

Coming into the arena of national affairs when even America seems to doubt and when the selfish
motive of fear threatens to palsy the nation's hand, Governor Cox became the man to vindicate
the statements and the pledges given before all the world.  His introduction to the conscience
and intellect of the country was a demand that the faith be kept.

Out of the night of war, the League of Nations has long been a supreme issue with Governor
Cox and he was chosen to carry the standard because he had expressed the sentiment most strongly,
most clearly and with greatest emphasis.

Doers have ever been practical men, and such is Governor Cox. But practicality need not, and
does not, imply a lack of vision. There is such a thing as ideality in vision and a practical
hand to make good the picture of the mind.  The combined qualities are considered as essentials
to the adequate man of the times, for a vision of a new world order is the rarest gift of the
century, but the man with the dynamic force and the cunning skill to make this new dream come
true has been wanting.

History--political history--was changed profoundly when President Woodrow Wilson was stricken.
Men were slow in rallying to his cause, there were even clouds of doubt, ominous and disturbing,
when the party he led to two victories prepared in the late June and the early July days of
the year 1920 to state its position, its hope and its aspirations.

In the state in which Governor Cox held leadership there was no doubt.  His own Ohio knew long
ago that at the Democratic National Convention in San Francisco its chosen spokesmen would
communicate but two mandates on behalf of the vast majority of the people.  One was that Ohio
could do no less than be faithful to its greatest executive and the other was that the nation's
faith and honor must be kept stainless.

Through Governor Cox that message has been sent to the length and breadth of the land.  As
seen by him, the appeal to the American people is one which began with the first plea to the
world powers for such a concert as would banish the continual threat of war.  This plea was
made to warring powers when the World War began in 1914 and it was renewed at each favorable
opportunity during the years when America hoped that the war might be brought to an end before
the last great neutral power was drawn into it.  Heeded by the Allies, the voice of reason
was rejected by the Central Empires, and from that hour there came the conviction among the
earnest lovers of peace that only the imposition of peace would furnish a new basis for world
concord.

Few men were more downcast than this same man when long and vexatious delays in the United
States Senate ended at last in the recalcitrant refusal of the masters of the majority to ratify
the Treaty of Versailles.  It is but a fair and truthful statement to observe that, although
his judgment of the mind of the people told him that the party which went before the country
to vindicate the sacrifices of the men in the trenches would have a most compelling issue,
he had no wish for such partisan advantage.  As a Democrat, history will tell that he sought
only fair compromise on the treaty, even suggesting any honest settlement that would hasten
America's entrance into the League.

In his address of acceptance, then, Governor Cox stepped to the fore with the tersest of utterances
as to his position on the League, compressing it all into "I favor going in."

If this question is not answered now and affirmatively, Governor Cox believes that there may
be delay until nations once more have borne their crosses on Calvary and until further blood
and treasure are wasted.  And so he says now:  "I favor going in."

CHAPTER II

COX THE MAN

Men of great versatility are most difficult to picture comprehensively.  Perhaps this is the
reason that no pen-portrait of Theodore Roosevelt ever seemed quite complete.  There was in
every single sketch something that seemed to be left unsaid, a point made by one was certain
to be omitted by another.  Cox is a man after the Roosevelt type.  They were fast friends and
they had many ideas in common.  They often exchanged views upon progressive issues and found
themselves largely in accord. Neither was static in mental processes and their dynamics were
often of the same sort.

But while Governor Cox's intimates compare him often with Roosevelt, they prefer to liken him
to Andrew Jackson.  For Cox is the true Twentieth Century Jacksonian, they say.  Like Andrew
Jackson, Governor Cox can improvise the organization of a political campaign better than any
man of his time, save Colonel Roosevelt, and the masterful Colonel won only when he had great
resources at his command.  Cox seems to have reached back into history and grasped the idea
of the manner in which Jackson's men worked with resources so small that they had to pass newspapers
of their faith from hand to hand.

Largely, it seems, because no war came along when he was free of family responsibilities Governor
Cox has no martial record.  He might have been a soldier of the Roosevelt type had he lived
in other circumstances but his youth was spent in the drudgery of toil and there was no chance
for education in a military academy.

Still they call him "fighting Jimmy," and those who have been through a campaign with him know
what they mean.  As a boy there was never need to drive him forward to personal combat and
in the man the juvenile tendency continued until he was well past the forty-five-year mark
of middle age.

If one were to inventory his external features there would appear a compact, muscular individual
of about five feet six inches in height and of one hundred and seventy pounds in weight, every
ounce keyed up to the efficiency of successful performance. motions indicate a man of quick
decision, a tendency to suddenness that many older than he have sought to check in his earlier
years.  It is a proverb among those who know him best that when Governor Cox makes an instant
decision he may be mistaken but that when he thinks it over for a single night he is never
wrong.  As the years in a varied experience have passed this disposition to think everything
over has grown and grown until snap judgments no longer are taken.  This may be the reason
why men say that he has improved as an executive from year to year and why his later acts and
deeds have the rounded out and complete aspect that is lacking in the earlier.  The nature
of Cox himself is for "action," even when it seems to take the form of experiment.  In simple
justice it must be said that he has never been an adventurer, but he is willing to tackle problems
before other would seize hold of them.  His first administration, he thinks, was his best,
for much more was done, but his last is his best, Ohio judgment has decided, because it repressed
tendencies to go the wrong way, taking perhaps the Gladstone view that a statesman deserves
more credit for defeating unwise legislation than for securing the enactment of good.  As Governor,
Cox has been willing to risk defeat for principle.

A trait of character is told in the story of school and taxation legislation.  He was warned
that progressive steps would encompass his defeat.  If a composite answer could be formed to
all the suggestions of this sort, it would be something like this:  "There is need for improving
our schools.  Time will vindicate it."

Something else of character may be learned from the manner in which Governor Cox redeems pledges.
When he was sorely beset by his political foes in 1914, it was represented to him that the
liquor interests might be made to do service if licenses were withheld until after the election.
And the answer given was something like this:  "The pledge was given that the license system
shall not be prostituted to partisanship.  That pledge will be redeemed."

The forebodings of the worldly wise were not disappointed.  The liquor interests contributed
heavily to the opposition candidate and supported him so well that he won the election.

Cox hates war even if he made a remarkable record as war Governor.  But he likes the smoke
and fury of political contest, and he thrives on campaigns.  He has a fashion of leading his
party organization and making it do his will, and like all men or this sort, he has been accused
of being dictatorial.  Yet none denies that he gives a fair hearing and is open to conviction
on disputed issues.

He has a power of expression in a few words, portraying a whole field of action.  Tending to
go into great detail in public matters, he comes to the heart of an issue with a laconic expression
that tells all there is to be told.  "I favor going in"--on the League of Nations is one. 
Assuring his supporters that the proposal for separate peace with Germany was "opening their
front lines," he drew a word sketch of a gigantic contest in which he as a general had sensed
a rift in the opposition ranks and had broken through a whole army.

Associates of Governor Cox say that he is daring because of his strong sense of justice.  The
question is frequently asked by him as to whether a proposition is fair to all sides.  Readiness
to trust in him as an arbitrator has brought many issues to his desk that are not part of a
Governor's official duties.  Disputes between interests and differences among organizations,
no less than capital and labor disagreements have been left to his decision.  It is an evidence
of the trust in the sense of justice in the man.

There is a notable habit in him of picking men quickly for tasks.  It is not claimed for him
that he has never made mistakes in his estimate of men, but they are comparatively rare.

Governor Cox is the only man ever nominated for President who owns wealth--real wealth.  His
personal fortune is handsome.  That was a point of criticism when he began to get acquainted
with the country, but it is no longer.  The reason is to be found in the fact that he has a
natural appeal that makes his associates forget money.  Nor is the charge ever seriously made
that his broad sympathy is affected.  When he is best known, the wealth he owns is least often
mentioned.

They do not refer to a wealthy man whose possessions are an outstanding attribute as "Jim"
or "Jimmy."  Cox, the man of affairs, is overshadowed by "Jimmy Cox."

As with all powerful leaders, no sketch would be complete if it did not allude to a certain
imperiousness that is in the man. This quality has made foes but that was inevitable.  One
who has risen by his own efforts has had the pushing impulse, of course.

It tells something of the Cox character that he has become a forceful speaker only in the last
ten years.  When he first entered public life in 1908 his style in speaking lacked force and
his manner was hesitating and uncertain.  A course of self- discipline and training led to
constant improvement, and while there has never been a pretense of oratorical flight, issues
and questions are discussed plainly and effectively.  There is a penchant for reducing statements
to simple and understandable terms and for stating his conviction with a measure of aggressiveness
that carries conviction.

As a candidate he has always believed that the people are entitled to the fullest information
possible and to see and hear those who seek their suffrage.

Like Roosevelt, the more strenuous sports and recreations attract him far more that does the
swinging of the golf stick. He is an expert marksman and has astonished military men on the
rifle range by what he can do with a gun.  His ancestors were squirrel-hunters, and his sure
eye was an inheritance from them. The Governor likes to rough it in the Northern Canadian woods,
spending at leisure a couple of weeks with only his son, James M. Jr., now a boy of 18, for
his companion.  He prides himself upon his ability to cook a fish after it is caught, and to
plunge in the lake as an evidence of his swimming ability.  When in Columbus his form of exercise
is walking, and younger men of sedentary pursuits find that he can tire them.

Quitting school at an early age, Cox's education has been acquired through much private study.
He knows no language except English.  His range of reading covers a wide variety of topics,
the favorite of which are the political sciences, and outdoor life.  He does not lay claim
to literary excellence or perfection of style, and is a man of serious bent of mind, speaking
only when he thinks he has a message to carry.

The name under which he has been known to the country, James Middleton Cox, seems to be an
error which only lately his friends have corrected.  In the old family Bible the name of James
Monroe Cox appears, indicative of a family admiration.  The name which appears signed to all
official documents is James M. Cox.  The Middleton seems to have had its origin in a bit of
journalistic levity, probably having reference to Middletown, Ohio, the city in which he got
his early training as a newspaper reporter.

The Governor's family consists of his wife, a little daughter, Anne, who is slightly less than
a year old, a married daughter, Mrs. Daniel J. Mahoney of Dayton, and two sons, James M. Jr.,
and John, age ten.

While the Governor's devotion to the equal suffrage cause has been of many years' standing,
the interests of Mrs. Cox are of a domestic nature.  The time not devoted to her baby daughter
is spent in the outdoors, he hobby being her garden.

CHAPTER III

WHY COX IS A CANDIDATE FOR PRESIDENT

James M. Cox is a candidate for President because he hopes to be the instrument of divine Providence
in a great accomplishment. He knows that the man who secures America's adherence to the League
of Nations is as certain of a permanent place in the scrolls of fame as those who laid the
foundations of freedom or those who preserved it in the days of fiery trial.  To a famous correspondent,
Mr. Herbert Corey, who put the question, "Why do you wish to be President?" The Governor has
answered:  "It affords an opportunity to take hold of a knotty situation (the League) by the
back of the neck and seat of the pants and shake a result out of it."

The answer rings true to the man.  The candidate has called it an issue of supreme faith, elaborating
his views in a recent communication to the "Christian Herald," in which he has said:

"'Fighting the good fight of faith'--these words from the epistle to Timothy might well be
our text for this campaign before the American people, which, within the limits of our strength,
has been carried to every fireside in this broad land of ours.  Ours is a fight of faith--faith
with a world that accepted our statement of unselfish purpose, faith with fathers and mothers,
wives and loved ones, who gave their sons, husbands and brothers to war upon war, faith with
those who made sacrifice in homes, faith with those who toiled, faith with the living and faith
with the dead.

"If there were in this contest nothing but the question of whether one or the other of two
editors should sit in the seat of power, nothing but whether one organization or another should
taste the sweets of office, we could not insist that there is involved a fight of faith.  There
is, indeed, an issue between two views of government, one looking forward and the other backward.
But temporary control by one side or the other for a brief period of four years is not necessarily
a supreme matter of faith.  We might try one or we might, in a spirit of experiment, try another.

"In speaking of this we would have our personal fortunes forgotten.  They are of transient
interest to ourselves and we might say of less interest to others.  To hold the exalted office
of President of the United States, to occupy the place of Washington, of Jefferson, of Lincoln,
to be looked to for leadership in public questions, to be the first citizen in this great land
is not a trifling but a gigantic ambition, worthy of all honest striving but involving, in
the ordinary sense, no supreme issue.  So if personal reasons only animated us, we could not
muster the temerity to state our case with the ardent zeal that controls us.

"But the motives that guide us are of greater import.  As leader of a great organization which
has had its part in interpreting the aspirations of the American people, and in shaping Americanism
through the generations we have been invested with a sacred commission, a mandate sanctified
by the reckless bravery of our sons and ennobled by the heart impulses of our daughters. Through
circumstances not of our own choosing we have become the custodians of the honor of the nation,
we have been called to fight the good fight of faith.

"We as a party willed otherwise.  In the face of bigoted denials of our good faith we sought
only concord of all our people in the tasks of American in the world.  There was glory enough
for all and we never advanced the claim that it was a partisan matter until the fact had been
established through long and weary months of purposeful misunderstanding and unconscionable
intrigue for party advantage by our opponents.  There is in this no suggestion of unkind sentiments
toward our leading adversaries.  We can utter the sentiment voiced on the hill above Jerusalem
and when America has come to understand we stand ready to blot out a dark chapter of our national
life and to pronounce a pardon upon a course of conduct charitably covered by 'they know not
what they do.'

"There ought to be in this a special appeal to believers in the living faith.  Its purpose
to give to all the universal benefits only a share of which it claims for itself, its conception
of the Golden Rule as the practical basis for dealings with the world, its high plan to save
the weak and feeble from the power and will of the mighty--these things, we say, are of the
very essence of the true faith.

"It is not a subject for marvel then that practically every denominational and interdenominational
gathering of religious men that has been held since the Versailles covenant was adopted has
included an endorsement of that great document.  Aloof from the contentions of partisans, freed
from the bigotry engendered by factionalism, looking upon national questions through the windows
of light and truth, the banded followers of the Man of Nazareth have seen the question that
is presented shorn of false claims.  In a word, Christians, speaking organically, with a voice
that could not be misunderstood have stated that they wish the League of Nations.

"For such a League, for the only league now in existence or which has a fair chance of coming
into existence, we are contending.  Could the question be lifted from the arena of partisanship
and could the referendum which we have invoked be by direct ballot, there would be no opposition.
Unfortunately, our system of government has not provided a choice so direct, nor a manner of
expression that would leave so small doubt as to the sentiment of America.  We say this from
a field of personal experience for like the certain rich young man of Biblical story, we, too,
have seen the type of uncompromising partisan who 'turned away sorrowfully' for party seemed
more important than duty or honor.

"It matters little whether we say that we feel deeply for those across the seas in their troubles
when we fail to act in their behalf.  The successful issue of the war left a duty on our hands,
a duty like that which we performed in Cuba nearly a generation ago and like that which has
been brought close to completion in the Philippines.  We faced a Christian duty toward our
associates and even toward the people of enemy lands.  It was our obligation to bind up the
wounds of the war and to show by example the fulfillment of high ideals voiced by the leaders
of the world thought.

"There came to us the divine opportunity to act quickly and with high Christian purposes. 
We might with one stroke have become the counselor and friend of all humanity, its guarantor
that all the forces of morality would be enlisted upon the side of peace. But the precious
moments were wasted in fruitless discussion, in idle bickerings, in invention of fancied situations,
purposely forgetting that the great purpose of the League of Nations was to band the world
together in a great brotherhood against war. We were to lead the nations back to peaceful ways
but through our own wavering we actually, by reason or a small coterie of men, we think wrongly
advised, have drenched Europe and Asia with new wars.

"The great heart of America has always been right upon this great issue.  There has never been
a time when associations of men and women, independent of partisanship, have turned from the
League proposal.  America gave freely in alms to every war-torn nation in the world.  She sent
her devoted bands of workers to relieve distress.  She sent her nurses to heal the sick.  She
sent her contributions to feed the hungry.  She opened her warehouses to clothe the naked.
She willingly gave her talent, through private auspices, to help bring life back to normal.
Her men of finance gave counsel; they offered credit and we applauded.  We were touched by
the works of associations and individuals to lessen war's terrors and to refound the wrecked
civilization. But foolish men, vain men, envious men forbade our government to do in larger
form the same sort of acts which, done by private auspices, we applauded as evidence of Christian
purpose.

"And the good that we sought to do was lost in our larger neglect.  Weak fears that in helping
the world, fantastic forebodings that in taking our stand for peace everlasting, imaginary
perils that in service we might be surrendering our birthright of independence restrained our
more noble impulses. While famine stalked and the world cried to heaven for our help we debated
selfish questions.  Our nation became a silent but effective partner in undermining Christian
civilization, causing the despairing peoples of Europe, friend and enemy alike, to turn in
every agony to those who denied the fundamental precepts upon which our society rests.

"Some one has called this black despair, 'Satanism,' the belief that the laws and deeds of
God and men are set against the victim.  And we, through the perversity of a few men, have
been silent enemies of Christian faith and allies, indeed, or this newer scourge of mankind.
There are happiness and satisfaction in the thought that we have not this fault to bear.  It
is not strange to us that those who permitted narrow views and ungenerous purpose to thwart
our nation in its duty rest uncomfortably under the accusations of the American conscience.
If temporary success is to be won at such sacrifice we cannot think it worth the price.

"Nor can the blame be shifted.  So far as was humanly possible, objections were met. The nearer the tropics, however, takes more Variety
of the formations, grace of form and color mixture, and eternal youth Force of organic life
to.

This increase can easily be doubted by those who never leave our part of the world, or have neglected
the study of general geography. If one of our thick-leaved Oak forests on the Alps or Pyrenees
chain for Welsch country or Spain descends; even if we direct his attention to the African coastal
countries of the Mediterranean: so is easily led to the erroneous conclusion, as if the character
treeless hot climates. But you forget that southern Europe had a different form, or as Pelasgian
festsezten carthagischc clerical estate planting people at first, you forget that former education
of the human race supplanted the woods, and that the spirit of umschaffende and desserts Earth
gradually robs the jewelry that delights us in the north, and the (more than all Story) shows
the youth of our moral culture. The great catastrophe by which the Mediterranean formed by a swelling
inland water, the floodgates of Dardanelles and the Pillars of Hercules broken, this disaster
seems to angränzenden countries have a great part stripped of their earth dam. What the Greek writers
mentioned by the Samothrace say, indicates the novelty of the destructive nature of change at. Also,
in all countries that are bounded on the Mediterranean, and which the limestone formation the law characterizes
a large proportion of bare rock surface, the Mahler tables Italian regions is based chiefly
on this lovely contrast between the inanimate barren rock and lush vegetation, the vows aufsprosst
like islands. Where this rock, less rugged, the water on the surface holds together, where it is
covered with earth, (As on the lovely shores of Lake Albano) because even Italy has its oak forests,
so shady and green, as the inhabitants of the north they wish.

Even the deserts beyond the Atlas, and the vast plains or steppes
of South America, are to be regarded as mere local phenomena.

These can be found, at least in the rainy season, with grass and low, almost herbaceous, mimosa
covered, are those sand seas in the interior of the old continent, large plant rooms empty, surrounded
by ever green wooded shores. Only individually standing fan palms remind the hiker that these
wastes part of a busy Creation are. In the deceptive play of light that catches the radiant
heat that can be seen soon the foot of the palm trees float in the air, soon you reverse image
in the balanced-like trembling Layers of air repeatedly. And west of the Peruvian Andes, along
the coasts of Pacific Ocean, it took us weeks to rule out such water empty deserts. The origin of it, this
great Pflanzenlosigkeit Erdstrecken, in areas where about kraftvolleste the vegetation there
is a little attention geological phenomenon which It is common ground in old Naturrevoluzionen
(in floods, or volcanic Umwandelungen the earth's crust is based). Once an area has lost its
vegetation cover, the sand is moved and source-empty, prevents the hot, rising air perpendicular
to the precipitation of the clouds: Sun take thousands of years before the green banks of organic
life in the interior of the Desert passes.

Any person to embrace nature, with a look, and to abstract from local phenomena White, who
sees how even with the increase of life-giving warmth of the poles
to the equator, is also gradually increase organic force and vigor.

But is this increase in but any particular regions of the earth beauties reserved: the tropical
variety and size of plant forms, the north of the sight of the meadows, and the periodic revival
of Nature at the first pangs of spring air. Each zone has its own advantages, besides the
well its peculiar character. Just as in individual organic beings a certain physiognomy recognizes,
such as descriptive botany and zoology, in the strict sense of the word, almost nothing Analysis
of animal and plant forms: so there is a certain natural physiognomy, which each belongs exclusively
climates.

What is the nature of Mahler with the expressions Swiss, Italian sky, called founds to the dark feel
of this local natural character.

Blue sky, lighting, scent, resting on the distance, shape of animals, juice abundance of herbs,
the leaves shine, outline the mountains - all these elements determine the total impression
of a region. Although in form all zones, the same rocks rock groups, from all the same countenance.
The green stone cliffs in South America and Mexico are similar to those of the German Fichtelgebirge,
as among animals the shape of the Alco or the original dog race of the New Continent, the European
Race match exactly. For the inorganic crust of the earth as it is independent of climatic influences,
be it that the difference of climates is newer than the rock; except that the hardening, heat-release
mass of the Earth itself was its temperature, rather than they receive from outside. All formations
are therefore all parts of the world own, and in all conformed. Everywhere is the basalt twin
mountains and truncated cone, everywhere appears in the Trapporphyr grotesque rocks, the granite
in gently rounded tops. Also similar forms of plants, fir and oak garland that Berggehänge in Sweden,
as the the southernmost portion of Mexico. And despite all this agreement in the figures, this
equality of the individual contours, takes the same grouping into a whole but different in character.

Just
as the knowledge of the fossils from the mountain doctrine differs, so the individual nature
of the general description or the physiognomy of nature, different. Georg Forster in his travels
and in his small fonts; Goethe in the descriptions of nature, which contain as many of his
immortal works, Herder, Buffon, Bernardin de St. Pierre, and even
Chateaubriand have with inimitable truth the character of individual
climates described.

Such descriptions are not only suitable to the mind of a pleasure to provide the finest kind,
no, the knowledge of the natural character of different parts of the world with the history of
mankind, and linked to its culture, intimately, For although the beginning of this culture is not
determined by physical factors alone; nevertheless depends on the direction of the same, so people
hang Character, gloomy or cheerful mood of humanity, in great part on climatic conditions from. How
powerful is the Greek Sky cast on his people! We are not in the beautiful and prosperous regions
of the earth between the Oxus, the Tigris and the Aegean Sea, the people who locate there first awakened
to moral grace and delicacy? And do not have a new barbarism in Europe sank, and religious enthusiasm
plözlich öfnete the sacred East, from our ancestors those mild valleys of new milder manners
brought home! The poetic works of the Greeks and the rougher, chants of the Northern Indigenous
Peoples owed in great part to their peculiar Character of the shape of the plants and animals, the
mountain valleys that surrounded the poet, and the air that it blew. Who does not feel to themselves
to remember only near objects, otherwise voted in the dark shadow of the Book, or on hills,
with the solitary Fir trees are crowned, or on the grassland, where the wind in the trembling leaves
of the birch whispers! Melancholy, serious uplifting or cheerful pictures patriotic call this
plant forms produced in us. The influence of the physical world to the moral, this mysterious
mesh-work In addition to the sensuous and sensual, gives the study of nature, when it points
to higher rises, a private, unknown or too little stimulus.

But though the character of different parts of the world from all external appearances the same
time depends, if outline of the mountains, physiognomy of plants and animals, if blue sky,
Clouds form, and transparency of the atmosphere, the effect Totaleindruk, is yet to not deny that this impression
is the main determinant of the plant cover. The animal Organism lacks mass and withdraw the mobility of the
individuals they are often our Eyes. The creation of plants on the other hand has a constant size by
our imagination.

Their mass described their age, and age alone in the plants and expression is always of refreshing
force coupled with each other. The huge dragon-shaped tree that I go to the Canary Islands
saw the 16 shoe and has a diameter that, even forever (as it in eternal youth) flower and
fruit. As a French adventurer, the Bethe courts, in the fourteenth Century, the Happy Isles conquered,
was the dragon tree of Oratava (the natives sacred as the olive tree in the castle at Athens,
or the northern ash, and Odin in the Asi met) from just the colossal strength as Jezter. In the
tropics, is a forest of Hymeneen Caesalpinien and perhaps the monument of a millennium.

Includes one of the various plant species which are already found on the ground, of which *
* Willdenow's great work but just over 20,000 fragmented, with a glance; we recognize in this wonderful
volume a few main forms to which all other can be traced back. To determine these forms from their
individual beauty, distribution and grouping depends on the physiognomy of the vegetation of
a country, you do not (as in the botanical systems of other motives is done) to the smallest parts
of the flowers and fruits, but only take on the consideration that
by the total impression of a mass Individualized area.

Among the main forms of vegetation, however, there are whole families the so-called natural
systems. Banana plants and palm trees are individually in the following listed. But the botanical
taxonomists separated a lot of plant groups that of physiognomy is forced to be connected with
each other. Where the plants are the Represent masses, shapes and flow distribution of leaves, shape
of the trunks and branches, in another. The painter (and especially the delicate nature of
the feelings of the artist is saying here too!) is different in the middle and back of a landscape
of pine or Palmengebüsehe of beech, but not this from other hardwood forests!

Sixteen plant forms primarily determine the physiognomy of nature. I count only those on which
I in my travels through both parts of the world, and at a much-year Attention to the vegetation
of the different climates between the 55th Grade have observed the 12th degree north and south
latitude. The number of these forms is certainly be more impressive if we once more deeply into
the interior of continents penetrates and discovers new plant species. In southeast Asia, the interior
of Africa and Australia; out in South America from the Amazon river to the mountains Chiquitos
us, the vegetation is still completely unknown.

What if you do discover a country in which woody sponges, such as Calvaria or moss, tall trees
formed? Nekera dendroides, a German moss, is in That the tree-like, and tropical ferns, often higher
than our lime and alder, Are the Europeans still Jezter an equally surprising sight when the
first explorers a forest of high mosses would be! Size and development of the organs is dependent
on the favor climatic conditions from. The small but sleek shape of our lizard extends in a South
to the colossal and formidable armored body Crocodyle out. In the vast Cats of Africa and America,
the tiger, the lion and jaguar, the shape of our smallest domestic animals for a larger scale
again. We do penetrate into the interior Earth, we ransack the burial of plants and animals,
so tell us all the fossils not merely a distribution of forms, which is in contradiction with
the current climatic conditions; no, they show us colossal figures, which with the silly, which
we currently surrounded, not Irishmen less contrast than the simple heroic nature of the Greeks
against the character size recent times. If the temperature of the Earth considerably, perhaps recurring
Changes suffered, is the relation between sea and land, and even the height of the Air ocean
and its pressure was not always the same: so, the physiognomy of nature, must size and shape
of the organism, also subject to many changes have been be. Unable physiognomy of this aging
planet to its present features completely to describe, I venture to dig only those characters
which each group of plants especially . Come For all the richness and flexibility of all our native language,
it is a difficult undertaking to describe with words what is really only the imitative represent
art of the painter is fitting. I too wish to avoid the fatigue of the impression arouse each listing
individual forms must be inevitable.

We start with the palms * *, the highest and most noble of all plant forms. For you always
have the people (and the earliest human education was in the Asian Palm world or in the regions
of the earth, the first awarded bordered to the Palm world) the price of beauty. Tall, slim, striped,
sometimes stachliche Shanks with aspiring, brilliant, sometimes flared, sometimes feathered foliage.
The leaves are often curled grass-like. The smooth Strain of up to 180 feet high. The shape of palm
trees decreases in splendor and size, from the equator against the temperate zone out. Europe
has, among its indigenous plants only one representative this form, the dwarf palm coast,
the Chamaerops, in Spain and Italy to the north extends to the 44sten latitudes. The actual climate
of the Earth Palm has 21 °. medium Heat.

But the date palm from Africa brought to us that less beautiful than other types This group
is still vegetate in southern Europe in areas which the mean temperature 14 °. more than twice
larger than that of Berlin, is. Palm trees and elephant skeleton are in the north of Germany in the
interior of the Earth buried and its location makes it probable that they were not dislodged
from the tropics northward ago, but that in the large Revoluzionen the climates of our planet,
as determined by her physiognomy of nature, been much altered.

The palm trees in all parts of the world joins the plantain or banana shape * *, the Scitamineen the
botanist, Heliconia, Amomum, Strelitzia. A low but succulent, almost herbaceous Tribe, headed
by the thin and delicate striped lokkergewebte, silky and shiny Leaves collect. Pisanggebüsche
are the jewelry wet areas. based on their fruit the food of all inhabitants of the hot Life
jackets. As the meal rich cereals or cereal of the North, so Pisangstämme accompany the people
since the earliest childhood of his culture. Asian myths and share the original home of this nourishing
tropical plant of the Euphrates, or at the foot of the Himalus in India. Greek legends call the
plains of Enna as the happy fatherland of cereals. If this spread through the culture of the Northern
Earth and there uniform far-flung grassland forming little embellish
the sights of nature, then in contrast to the tropical ansiedelnde
residents multiplied by one of the Pisangpflanzungen most glorious
and noble figures.

* * Malvenform, Sterculia, Hibiscus, Lavatera, Ochroma. Short but colossal dikke strains with
soft woolly, large, heart-shaped, often dissected leaves, and often magnificent purple-red
flowers. Among this group of plants is one of the baobab, Adansonia digitata, at the height of 32 feet
30 feet diameter, and probably the largest and oldest organic monument on our planet. Italy starts
the Malvenform to above, the to give vegetation a peculiar southern character.

In contrast entbehret our temperate zone in the old continent unfortunately quite the zartgefiederten
Leaves, the * * form of the mimosa, Gleditsia, Porleria, Tamarindus. The United States North
America, in which the same latitude as the vegetation is more varied and abundant in Europe,
not wanting this beautiful shape.

At the mimosa is an umbrella-like spread of the branches, almost like the Italian stone pines,
common. The deep blue sky of the tropical climate shimmering through the leaves zartgefiederten,
is very picturesque effects.

A mostly African group of plants are * the * heathers, such are the Andromeda, Passerine and
Gnidien, a group with that of the conifers has some resemblance,
and very reason that contrasts with the wealth glokkenförmiger flowers,
the more charming.

The tree-like heathers, like several other African plants reach the northern Shores of the
Mediterranean. You schmükken Welsch country and Cistus bushes of southern Spain. At the most
luxuriant in growth I have on the African islands, on the slope of the * Pics * of * * Teyde
seen. For us out in the Baltic countries, and further North, this plant form feared, drought and
infertility preaching. Our heathers, Erica vulgaris and tetralix are socially living plants, against the
advancing train the agricultural community Peoples struggling for
centuries with little Glükke.

Strange that the main representative this form only one side of our planet is our own. Of the 137
known species of Jezter Erica is also not one of the new continent of Pensilvanien and Labrador
up to Nootka and Alaschka out.

Contrast, only the new continent is the peculiar form * Cactus *, now spherical, sometimes divided,
now in high vielekkigen columns like organ pipes, standing upright. This group is the highest
contrast with the shape of the lily family and bananas. It belongs to the plants, which Bernardin de
St. Pierre very happy the vegetable sources The desert calls. Search in the waterless plains
of South America, distressed by thirst Animals, the melon cactus, a spherical, half hidden in the dry
sands plant, which juicy interior with terrible spines is hidden. The columnar cactus stems reach
30 feet high and divided candelaberartig, they have a striking resemblance the physiognomy of
some African Euphorbia.

As this green turf form in the empty desert plant, so revive the orchid * * by the Light charred
trunk of tropical trees and the most barren rock crevices. The vanilla form is characterized out
for bright green succulent leaves and colorful flowers of wonderful mines. These same flowers
as soon as the winged insect, sometimes the delicate birds that the scent the honey anlokket
vessels. The life of a painter would not be sufficient to remove all the magnificent Orchids
to reflect what the Deep, furrowed mountain valleys of the Peruvian Andes decorate.

Leafless, like almost all types of Cactus is the * shape * of the Casuarina, a plant form, only the
South Pacific and East Indies own.

Schachtelhalmähnlichen trees with branches. But see also in other parts of the world traces of
the more curious than beautiful type. * * Plumier's Equisetum altissimum, ephedra from North Africa,
Peru and the Siberian Colleti Calligonum Pallasia are used near the Casuarinenform.

As in the Pisanggewächsen the highest extent, so is in the Casuarina and the conifers * * the greatest
contraction of the leaf vessels. Tannen, thuja and cypress form a Nordic Form, which is rare
in the tropics.



"In the midst of war the present senatorial cabal, led by Senators Lodge, Penrose and Smoot,
was formed.  Superficial evidence of loyalty to the President was deliberate in order that
the great rank and file of their party, faithful and patriotic to the very core, might not
be offended.  But underneath this misleading exterior, conspirators planned and plotted, with
bigoted zeal.  With victory to our arms they delayed and obstructed the works of peace.  If
deemed useful to the work in hand no artifice for interfering with our constitutional peace-making
authority was rejected.  Before the country knew, yes, before these men themselves knew the
details of the composite plan, formed at the peace table, they declared their opposition to
it.  Before the treaty was submitted to the senate in the manner the Constitution provides,
they violated every custom and every consideration of decency by presenting a copy of the document,
procured unblushingly from enemy hands, and passed it into the printed record of senatorial
proceedings. From that hour dated the enterprise of throwing the whole subject into a technical
discussion, in order that the public might be confused.  The plan has never changed in its
objective, but the method has.  At the outset there was the careful insistence that there was
no desire to interfere with the principle evolved and formalized at Versailles.  Later, it
was the form and not the substance that professedly inspired attack. But pretense was futile
when proposals later came forth that clearly emasculated the basic principle of the whole peace
plan. It is not necessary to recall the details of the controversy in the senate.  Senator
Lodge finally crystallized his ideas into what were known as the Lodge reservations, and when
congress adjourned these reservations held the support of the so-called regular Republican leaders.

"From that time the processes have been interesting.  Political expediency in its truest sense
dwarfed every consideration either of the public interest or of the maintenance of the honor
of a great political party.  The exclusive question was how to avoid a rupture in the Republican
organization.  The country received with interest, to say the least, the announcement from
Chicago, where the national convention was assembled, that a platform plank dealing with the
subject of world peace, had been drawn leaving out the Lodge reservations, and yet remaining
agreeable to all interests, meaning thereby, the Lodge reservationists, the mild reservationists
and the group of Republican senators that openly opposed the League of Nations in any form.

"As the platform made no definite committal of policy and was, in fact, so artfully phrased
as to make almost any deduction possible, it passed through the convention with practical unanimity.
Senator Johnson, however, whose position has been consistent and whose opposition to the League
in any shape is well known, withheld his support of the convention's choice until the candidate
had stated the meaning of the platform, and announced definitely the policy that would be his,
if elected.

"The Republican candidate has spoken and his utterance calls forth the following approval from
Senator Johnson:

"'Yesterday in his speech of acceptance Senator Harding unequivocally took his stand upon the
paramount issue in this campaign--the League of Nations.  The Republican party stands committed
by its platform.  Its standard-bearer has now accentuated that platform.  There can be no misunderstanding
his words.'

"Senator Harding, as the candidate of the party, and Senator Johnson are as one on this question,
and, as the latter expresses it, the Republican party is committed both by platform in the
abstract and by its candidate in specification.  The threatened revolt among leaders of the
party is averted, but the minority position as expressed in the senate prevails as that of
the party.  In short, principle, as avowed in support of the Lodge reservations, or of the
so-called mild reservations, has been surrendered to expediency.

"Senator Harding makes this new pledge of policy in behalf of his party:

"'I promise you formal and effective peace so quickly as a Republican congress can pass its
declaration for a Republican executive to sign.'

"This means but one thing--a separate peace with Germany!

"This would be the most disheartening event in civilization since the Russians made their separate
peace with Germany, and infinitely more unworthy on our part than it was on that of the Russians.
They were threatened with starvation and revolution had swept their country.  Our soldiers
fought side by side with the Allies.  So complete was the coalition of strength and purpose
that General Fochs was given supreme command, and every soldier in the allied cause, no matter
what flag he followed, recognized him as his chief.  We fought the war together, and now before
the thing is through it is proposed to enter into a separate peace with Germany!  In good faith
we pledged our strength with our associates for the enforcement of terms upon offending powers,
and now it is suggested that this be withdrawn.  Suppose Germany, recognizing the first break
in the Allies, proposes something we cannot accept.  Does Senator Harding intend to send an
army to Germany to press her to our terms?  Certainly the allied army could not be expected
to render aid.  If, on the other hand, Germany should accept the chance we offered of breaking
the bond it would be for the express purpose of insuring a German-American alliance, recognizing
that the Allies--in fact, no nation in good standing--would have anything to do with either of us.

"This plan would not only be a piece of bungling diplomacy, but plain, unadulterated dishonesty,
as well."  This act would either be regarded as arrant madness or attempted international bossism.

"The plain truth is, that the Republican leaders, obsessed with a determination to win the
presidential election, have attempted to satisfy too many divergent views.  Inconsistencies,
inevitable under the circumstances, rise to haunt them on every hand, and they find themselves
arrayed, in public thought at least, against a great principle.  More than that, their conduct
is opposed to the idealism upon which their party prospered in other days."

"Illustrating these observations by concrete facts, let it be remembered that those now inveighing
against an interest in affairs outside of America, criticised President Wilson in unmeasured
terms for not resenting the invasion of Belgium in 1914.  They term the League of Nations a
military alliance, which, except for their opposition, would envelop our country, when, as
a matter of truth, the subject of a League of Nations has claimed the best thought of America
for years, and the League to Enforce Peace was presided over by so distinguished a Republican
as ex-President Taft, who, before audiences in every section, advocated the principle and the
plan of the present League.  They charge experimentation, when we have as historical precedent
the Monroe Doctrine, which is the very essence of Article X of the Versailles covenant.  Skeptics
viewed Monroe's mandate with alarm, predicting recurrent wars in defense of Central and South
American states, whose guardians they alleged we need not be.  And yet not a shot has been
fired in almost one hundred years in preserving sovereign rights on this hemisphere. They hypocritically
claim that the League of Nations will result in our boys being drawn into military service,
but they fail to realize that every high-school youngster in the land knows that no treaty
can override our Constitution, which reserves to Congress, and to Congress alone, the power
to declare war.  They preach Americanism with a meaning of their own invention, and artfully
appeal to a selfish and provincial spirit, forgetting that Lincoln fought a war over the purely
moral question of slavery, and the McKinley broke the fetters of our boundary lines, spoke
the freedom of Cuba, and carried the torch of American idealism to the benighted Philippines.
They lose memory of Garfield's prophecy that America, under the blessings of God- given opportunity,
would by her moral leadership and co- operation become the Messiah among the nations of the earth.

"These are fateful times.  Organized government has a definite duty all over the world.  The
house of civilization is to be put in order.  The supreme issue of the century is before us
and the nation that halts and delays is playing with fire.  The finest impulses of humanity,
rising above national lines, merely seek to make another horrible war impossible.  Under the
old order of international anarchy war came overnight, and the world was on fire before we
knew it.  It sickens our senses to think of another.  We saw one conflict into which modern
science brought new forms of destruction in great guns, submarines, airships, and poison gases.
It is no secret that our chemists had perfected, when the contest came to a precipitate close,
gases so deadly that whole cities could be wiped out, armies destroyed, and the crews of battleships
smothered.  The public prints are filled with the opinions of military men that in future wars
the method, more effective than gases or bombs, will be the employment of the germs of disease,
carrying pestilence and destruction.  Any nation prepared under these conditions, as Germany
was equipped in 1914, could conquer the world in a year.

"It is planned now to make this impossible.  A definite plan has been agreed upon.  The League
of Nations is in operation.  A very important work, under its control, just completed, was
participated in by the Hon. Elihu Root, Secretary of State under the Roosevelt administration.
At a meeting of the Council of the League of Nations, February 11, and organizing committee
of twelve of the most eminent jurists in the world was selected. The duty of this group was
to devise a plan for the establishment of a Permanent Court of International Justice, as a
branch of the League.  This assignment has been concluded by unanimous action.  This augurs
well for world progress.  The question is whether we shall or shall not join in this practical
and humane movement.  President Wilson, as our representative at the peace table, entered the
League in our name, in so far as the executive authority permitted.  Senator Harding, as the
Republican candidate for the presidency, proposes in plain words that we remain out of it.
As the Democratic candidate, I favor going in.  Let us analyze Senator Harding's plan of making
a German-American peace, and then calling for a 'new relationship among nations,' assuming
for the purpose of argument only, that the perfidious hand that dealt with Germany would possess
the power or influence to draw twenty-nine nations away from a plan already at work, and induce
them to retrace every step and make a new beginning.  This would entail our appointing another
commission to assemble with those selected by the other powers. With the Versailles instrument
discarded, the whole subject of partitions and divisions of territory on new lines would be
reopened.  The difficulties in this regard, as any fair mind appreciates, would be greater
than they were at the peace session, and we must not attempt to convince ourselves that they
did not try the genius, patience, and diplomacy of statesmen at that time.  History will say
that great as was the Allied triumph in war, no less a victory was achieved at the peace table.
The Republican proposal means dishonor, world confusion and delay. It would keep us in permanent
company with Germany, Russia, Turkey and Mexico.  It would entail, in the ultimate, more real
injury than the war itself.  The Democratic position on the question, as expressed in platform is:

"'We advocate immediate ratification of the Treaty without reservations which would impair
its essential integrity, but do no oppose the acceptance of any reservation making clearer
or more specific the obligations of the United States to the League associates.'

"The first duty of the new administration clearly will be the ratification of the Treaty. 
The matter should be approached without thought of the bitterness of the past.  The public
verdict will have been rendered, and I am confident that the friends of world peace as it will
be promoted by the League, will have in numbers the constitutional requisite to favorable senatorial
action.  The captious may say that our platform reference to reservations is vague and indefinite.
Its meaning, in brief, is that we shall state our interpretation of the covenant as a matter
of good faith to our associates and as a precaution against any misunderstanding in the future.
The point is, that after the people shall have spoken, the League will be in the hands of its
friends in the Senate, and a safe index as to what they will do is supplied by what reservations
they have proposed in the past.

"Our platform clearly lays no bar against any additions that will be helpful, but it speaks
in a firm resolution to stand against anything that disturbs the vital principle.  We hear
it said that interpretations are unnecessary.  That may be true, but they will at least be
reassuring to many of our citizens, who feel that in signing the treaty, there should be no
mental reservations that are not expressed in plain words, as a matter of good faith to our
associates.  Such interpretations possess the further virtue of supplying a base upon which
agreement can be reached, and agreement, without injury to the covenant, is now of pressing
importance.  It was the desire to get things started, that prompted some members of the senate
to vote for the Lodge reservations.  Those who conscientiously voted for them in the final
roll calls realized, however, that they acted under duress, in that a politically bigoted minority
was exercising the arbitrary power of its position to enforce drastic conditions.  Happily
the voters of the republic, under our system of government, can remedy that situation, and
I have the faith that they will, at the election this fall.  Then organized government will
be enabled to combine impulse and facility in the making of better world conditions.  The agencies
of exchange will automatically adjust themselves to the opportunities of commercial freedom.
New life and renewed hope will take hold of every nation.  Mankind will press a resolute shoulder
to the task of readjustment, and a new era will have dawned upon the earth."

Speaking to the National Guardsmen at the National Rifle Matches at Camp Perry, Ohio, on August
12, he said:

"I recognize that in a sense you are assembled here for the purpose of increasing the efficiency
of our military strength, and yet I am convinced that the great mass of our soldiers are united
in purpose and prayer, to prevent wars in the future, if it can be honorably done.  They know
the meaning of modern warfare.  There was very little romance in the long hours and the slaughter
of the front trench.  The thought that must have run through the mind of every solder in the
midst of it all, was how such a thing was possible in modern civilization.

"The cost to the United States was more than one million dollars an hour for over two years.
The total expense of twenty-two billion dollars was almost equal to the total disbursements
of the United States government from 1791 to 1918.  It was sufficient to have run the Revolutionary
War for more than one thousand years at the rate of expenditure which that war involved.  The
army expenditures alone, so experts claim, are a near approach to the volume of gold produced
in the United Sates from the discovery of America up to the outbreak of the European War, and
yet the United States spent only about one-eighth of the entire cost of the war, and less than
one-fifth of the expenditure of the allied side.

"If civilization has not had its lesson, then there is no hope for it.  It could not stand
such a war again and survive.  The genius of man, if that is a happy term in discussing the
horrors of conflict, has always made the latest war the most frightful. When we consider the
development in the methods of human destruction between 1914 and 1918 and apply the problem
of simple proportion, we are staggered even to think of the possibilities of the sons of men
being again brought into combat.

"There will always be a national guard in the States, if for no other reason than domestic
defense, and the military arm of the federal government will be maintained, but the hope that
vast expenditures for armaments are a thing of the past, possesses every home in America, while
the common impulse that moves the great mass of people world-wide is inspired by the vision
of peace and the settlement of controversy by the arbitrament of reason rather than of force."

At the very beginning of his canvass for the Presidency Governor Cox has gone upon the theory
that the League of Nations needed simple explanation to the people of the Country.  In his
own phrase, he has talked the ABC's of the League, finding that the technical discussions had
failed to hold the interest of the people.  Illustrating this policy are two addresses made
to state conventions early in August.  At Wheeling, to the West Virginia Democratic Convention,
he said:

"We resisted a world-wide menace, and we intend now to establish permanent protection against
another menace.  We know how easily wars came in the past.  We want to make their coming difficult
in the future.  We have a definite plan; the American people understand it, and after the 4th
of March, 1921, it is our purpose to put it into practical operation, without continuing months
of useless discussion.

"The platform of our party gives us the opportunity to render moral co-operation in the greatest
movement of righteousness in the history of the world, and at the same time to hold our own
interests free from peril.  Our position is plain.  The circumstances of the last eighteen
months convict the Republican leadership of attempted trickery with the American people.  Under
one pretext after another they prevented the readjustment of national conditions.  They proposed
certain reservations to the League of Nations, and then they were abandoned, to be followed
by nothing more definite than the announcement of a 'hope' that an entirely new arrangement
might be made in world affairs.  What method they have in mind, if it is concretely in anyone's
mind, the people do not know.  No unprejudiced person can deny that the consequence of abandoning
the League and attempting an entirely new project, will be prolonged delay.  If the voters
of the Republic, without regard to party, desire action, and prompt action along lines that
are now clearly understood, they will render a verdict so overwhelmingly expressive of public
indignation that scheming politicians for years to come will not forget.

"In the fact of an efficient leadership during the war, and of constructive, progressive, economic
service in peace, the Republican leaders developed a smoke screen, behind which they seek to
gain their objective, the spoils of office.  For years the best thought and the humanitarian
impulses of civilized countries have been applied to the high purpose of making war practically
impossible.  The League of Nations became the composite agreement, and now the senatorial oligarchy
meets it with the absurd plea that it increases the probability of armed conflict.  It not
only reveals unworthy intent, but a very poor estimate of American intelligence as well."

Taking the issue to the people, and free from what he termed strait-jacket restrictions, the
Governor said at Columbus, when he talked to the Ohio Democratic Convention:

"I carefully reviewed the platform adopted at Chicago, and studied its principles, but I know
as much about it now as when I started to read it.  I gave intensive thought also to the speech
made by the Republican candidate, the purpose of which was to interpret the meaning of that
historic document, and after long and vigilant labor I found two pronouncements.  What was
the first?  The statement that staggered the sensibilities of the civilization of the world,
the unthinkable, monstrous proposal, that in the midst of the uncertainty of the hour, a separate
peace ought to be made with Germany.  I want you to go back with me just a year and a half,
to the time when victory was son; to the time when our boys maintained their vigils on the
banks of the Rhine, standing there in solid formation with 2,000,000 great lads behind them.
Germany signed the peace document on the dotted line.  What has happened in the united States
Senate to prevent its acceptance by the upper branch of the American Congress?  I need not
recall, because every child knows about it.  But the soldiers came back home; they were demobilized;
they entered into their several walks of life believing that their victory had been complete,
and that the offending powers had been brought to terms.  And now, with the armies disbanded,
and now, with our military strength no longer holding together, it is proposed by the candidate
of the Republican party that he will prove false to the boys who stood by when that peace was
made.  He will destroy the pact and enter into a new covenant.

"Six hundred thousand French died at Verdun defending the slogan, 'They shall not pass.'  More
than a million English and Canadians died on the Somme, reforming their ranks, and hurling
back the challenge, 'They shall not pass.'  They were possessed of the crusading spirit; they
were preserving the Democracy of the world, the very Government of the earth.  And now another
menace is threatened, and it is proposed that some one, acting in behalf of two millions of
soldiers and the one hundred million people of this Republic, shall perform a perfectly perfidious
act.  Standing at the head of the hosts of the great army which opposes the hosts of reaction;
standing at the head of the hosts of Democracy, at the head of the hosts of progress; at the
head of the hundreds of thousands of independents of this Country, I give to you this assurance:
That this dishonorable deed will not be perpetrated--for two very important reasons. First,
Warren G. Harding will not have a chance to do it; and second, I will not insult two million
soldiers by doing it myself.

"And then proceeding to the second stage of these proceedings, the Republican candidate says
that after he shall have made a separate peace with Germany, he will then assemble the conscience
of the civilization of the world and form an entirely new relationship.  If, for the sake of
argument only, we are to assume that a separate peace with Germany were made, I believe that
the Government of the United States of America would be so unworthy in the eyes of the nations
of the world that none of them would have anything to do with us at all.

"This one question will remain in the public mind.  After all this is the crux of the whole
situation.  The Republican candidate and the reactionaries now in control of the Republican
party, promise you nothing whatsoever except a proposal which at is best will involve months
and probably years of delay.  On the other hand, we promise you this, that after the 4th of
March, 1921, with the least amount of conversation possible, we will enter the League of Nations
of the world.  Our Democratic platform adopted at San Francisco gives us full license and opportunity
to enter the League upon terms which will need no defense.  Our position is not unbending;
it is not captious.  We proclaim that we will accept any conditions that interpret, that call
attention to the limitations of our Constitution; that serve full notice now upon the powers
of the earth that we can go so far and no further.

"In other words we have the opportunity of concluding this, the greatest movement for righteousness
in all the history of the world, and then the loose ends of civilization will be put together.
The opportunity for exchange will have been restored. America will proceed upon an era of prosperity
and peace without precedent.

"I shall address no audience in America this year without puncturing the smoke screen of hypocrisy
and insincerity which has been raised, in order that the reactionaries might creep in behind
it and claim their main objective, the spoils of office. That smoke screen now is the statement
that the League of Nations increases the probabilities of war.  It would have been just as
absurd to have said to the boys at the time our fathers won their freedom, that if you proclaim
your independence you are going to have war, because you will have to fight to retain it. Every
school boy in Ohio understands there are three branches of Government, Judicial, Legislative
and Executive, and when war has been brought to an end, the head of the Executive Department,
the President of the United States, makes the treaty with the power with which we have been
at war, and then we find that limitation of power.  The President can go no further.  He submits
it to the Senate for ratification.  The President of the United States has very definite power,
and there are also very specific powers reserved to the Congress of the United States. The
Congress can do nothing contrary to the Constitution; the President can do nothing contrary
to the Constitution.  The Constitution provides that war can be declared by Congress, and Congress
only.  In order to give point and truth to what the reactionary leaders are now contending
for, it would be necessary to change the Constitution of the United States.  This would require
a two-thirds' vote of the House and Senate, and then a three-fourths' vote of the states of
the Union.  Our machinery was so adjusted that no matter who might be the Executive Officer
of this Republic, he did not possess the power to declare war.  The power was placed as near
to the people as it was possible to place it.  It was placed with their Representatives in
Congress.

"Now--the Republican leaders in contending that four or five potentates, four or five distinguished
statesmen over seas, sitting in the council of the League of Nations, can order our soldiers
anywhere, are speaking a deliberate and a willful untruth.  Presidential proprieties require
that I do not characterize it in stronger language.  You know it is very hard to please the
opposition, although we are under great debt to them for having made the gauge of battle in
this campaign.  The proposition to disgrace America by making a separate peace with Germany
was simply opening their front lines.  I have already entered that opening with the hosts of
Democracy around me.

"About three months ago a well-meaning Republican business man was driving through Clark county.
His soldier boy was at the wheel, and he looked over into a field and saw a hundred trucks
lying there; and he seized upon the circumstance to attack the Administration at Washington.
The son had heard enough of it, and he stopped the car and said:  'Father, you have got to
stop talking that way.  When we were in the front trench we had warm food, no matter whether
we were in the midst of hell's fire or not.  We had all the ammunition we needed.  It was ten
times better to have more trucks than we needed than to have fewer trucks than we needed.'
And then there is another reason for it all.  Need we be reminded that the opposition said
that it would require Secretary Baker and President Wilson eighteen months to take 600,000
soldiers over seas, and, recognizing that it would require in all probability more than 2,000,000
soldiers to win the war, that the war would then last, under this Democratic Administration,
four times eighteen months.  Any child in this country can have the facts presented to him
and he will have the mentality to grasp these outstanding circumstances:  President Wilson
and Secretary Baker, at the head of the military forces of the nation did not send 600,000
soldiers over in eighteen months' time.  They sent 2,000,000 soldiers over in eighteen months'
time, and won the war without the loss of a single troop ship."

CHAPTER V

HOW HE HAS DEALT WITH LABOR TROUBLES

No subject furnishes so good an index to the entire record of an executive as the manner in
which he has handled the affairs growing out of industrial disputes.  Touching, as they often
do, a zone of disputed claims, and involving, as they often do, the social rights of workers
no less than the rights of property, and entailing, as they frequently have, the duty of maintaining
public order, the conflicts between capital and labor test to the utmost the abilities of the
Executive Officer of a great industrial state like Ohio.  Within its borders are toilers from
every land and every clime.  In her cities dwell as laborers men and women from every known
country and representative of every race--a modern Babel of tongues with a greater variety,
were it possible, than those upon whom fell confusion of speech in the ages gone.

And the period during which Governor Cox has held away has been one of profound upheavals.
There have been strikes brought forth by "hard times," strikes occasioned by efforts at organization
of workers, and strikes whose distant origin lay in the economic overturn incident to war inflation
with its topsy-turvy of values and its jumble of the normal status.  These conditions, then,
supply a complete and ample test of the effectiveness of the policy which has been followed.
The results of this policy are told in a brief statement by Mr. Oscar W. Newman, Associate
Justice of the Ohio Supreme Court.  He said:  "Not a soldier was brought to the scene of a
single strike (although they were in readiness for emergency); person and property were preserved;
and above all, the dignity of the law was maintained."

Nor has capital been offended by the methods pursued.  This fact is attested by statements
of those who speak for invested industrial wealth.  Thus, W. S. Thomas, of Springfield, says
that the policies pursued have made "Ohio an oasis in the widespread area of industrial turmoil
during and since the great war."

There are cited, too, the conclusions reached by Thomas J. Donnelly, Secretary of the Ohio
Federation of labor, who has written:

"Labor has confidence in James M. Cox because the laboring people feel that he understands
their needs and is in hearty sympathy with the progressive aspirations of those who earn their
bread by the sweat of their brows.  As governor, he accomplished more in the interest of the
laboring people of Ohio and is held in higher esteem by them than any other governor in the
state's history.

"He has done much to avoid and to settle labor troubles.  He believes that more can be accomplished
through reason and common sense than through force and intimidation; and whenever called upon
to send the militia to deal with striking workmen, he always found a way to prevent violence
and preserve order without using soldiers for that purpose.  During the big steel strike when
violence and disorder were rampant in some states where the right peaceably to assemble had
been denied to the striking workers, in Ohio, where there were equally as many strikers involved,
there was no sign of violence, and the right of workers peaceably to assembled was not interfered
with.  If his policy had been followed by other public officials throughout the nation, there
would be less unrest and the people would have more confidence in the fairness of government
authorities."

It is only necessary to get a comprehensive view of Governor Cox's record with respect to labor
troubles to tell the plain story of what he has done.  He had scarce taken hold as Governor
in 1913 when a strike broke out in the great rubber plants of Akron.  It seemed to have been
fomented by members of the Industrial Workers of the World, but it drew in its train thousands
upon thousands of other workers until the great plants were practically idle.  In Akron, where
a heterogenous collection of industrial workers dwell, idleness was a potent factor in fomenting
disorder.  The normal course of affairs would have been an attempt to operate the plants with
strike breakers under guard, provocative acts upon both sides, and finally, recourse to an
armed militia to quell the disorder after the inevitable bloodshed had ensued.  Although new
in executive experience, Governor Cox took another course.  He sent trained and trusted investigators
to Akron who learned the facts and reported to him accurately upon the situation, including
also the grievances of the toilers.  At the same time he gave warning to the local authorities
that they preserve a strict neutrality in their dealing with the contending forces, and he
uttered a solemn warning that the laws must be respected, assuring those of both contending
factions that public opinion within the city would speedily ascertain the right and wrong of
the controversy.  And so it proved to be.  But learning there were abuses in the plants that
needed correction the Governor gave his assent to an investigation by a legislative committee
through the helpful publicity of which all interests were induced to redress certain grievances.
It gave an object lesson not only to Akron but to all the state.  It taught even the turbulent
element that only harm could come through infraction of the law and through disrespect for
rights of person and property.  The remainder of the  story is that I. W. W. disturbers have
more sterile soil in Ohio to cultivate than in any of the states about it.

A startling comparison two years later at East Youngstown, during the administration of Governor
Cox's successor, disclosed by contrast the value of the peaceful plan.  Through a policy of
uncertainty and wavering, a riot was allowed to start and military were needed to put down
the disorder, life being lost in the process.

The details of the incidents of similar nature to that of Akron need not be recounted here,
but the invariable policy pursued was the collection of all the facts, so far as possible,
by a representative of capital and one of labor.  Of this course, the simple statement can
be made that it was eminently successful.

This recital has been made as a preliminary to the narrative of the great steel strike of 1919
on which the Governor's fame as an administrator in troubled times largely rests.  The same
policy of investigation and research was pursued.  Solemn warning was given that freedom of
speech and assembly must be respected rigidly but that neither must become the instrument of
license nor of subversive speech or conduct.  At the time when the situation reached a critical
stage the Governor issued this statement:

"To the Mayors of municipalities and County Sheriffs of Ohio:

"I am impressed with the importance of a statement to the mayors and sheriffs as to a policy
which should serve as a guide to government, both state and local, in the matter of turbulent
conditions which have developed in many communities, from pending industrial disputes.

"We have inquiry at the executive office from local officials clearly indicating that no rule
of action has been developed in the face of present emergencies and further that none is in
prospect.  The constitution imposes upon the Governor the very definite responsibility of law
enforcement.  While it is the duty of the mayor of a municipality and the sheriff of the county
to execute the laws, the founders of our charter of government gave to the state executive,
not only the right to keep vigilant eye on conditions in every community, but his oath imposes
the obligation so to do.  Therefore, in no part of the state must a public officer permit the
violation of the law.  The mayors and sheriffs seem to have proper concept of their duty in
the abstract.  The purpose of this statement is to deal with specifications.

"The sections of the state which give the greatest concern have large masses of alien residents.
Thousands of them do not speak the language.  They are not familiar with our laws but it is
safe to assume that the individual conscience tells every man that violence is both a moral
and a legal wrong.

"Officers of companies whose manufacturing plants are closed by strike or other cause have
expressed to me the intention to resume operations.  At the same time they have asked for 'protection.'
Inquiry develops this fact--that some employers believe it the duty of government to transport
their employees into and out of the plants in question.  This is not a function of government.
Throughout the years, the policy has been not to make use of soldiers nor policemen to man
street cars, for instance, nor in any way to make of them the instruments to bring a strike
to an end.  If either state or local officers provided safe conveyance of workmen into or out
of a manufacturing institution, then government would be making of itself the agent of one
of the parties to the dispute.  If, however, the plant resumes, and disorder of any sort ensues
as the result of employees going into or out of the factory, then that becomes an affair of
governmental concern and the mayor of the municipality or the sheriff of the county, as location
within or without the municipality largely determines, must suppress violence and arrest those
who violate the law.  I shall exact this from all local officers.

"Picketing as we understand it is neither prohibited by law nor condemned by public sentiment,
but it must go no further than moral persuasion.  Organized society cannot continue without
government, and government will not live unless the laws are respected.  They not only express
what experience has taught us, but they are the official mandate of the will of the majority,
and after all, that is a fundamental principle in a republic.

"All officers must act with care.  It will be found that trouble can often be avoided by an
open, frank and firm contact of public officers with both the representatives of the employers
and employees.  No call that I have ever made upon either side of these controversies has ever
gone unheeded.

"We are in the midst of unprecedented conditions, but if we devote ourselves to the single
thought of making government the agency of justice and the instrument of bringing swift punishment
to those who violate the laws of this commonwealth, we will pass through the storm safely.

"No man must be permitted to define the rules of his individual conduct.  The law is supreme.
I shall expect its enforcement by local officers.  When they have rendered their utmost effort
and failed to meet conditions, then the state will act promptly."

In every city in Ohio, save one, this warning was sufficient, but in Canton it became necessary
for the Governor to remove the mayor.  His successor speedily re-established the peace.

CHAPTER VI

HOW HE HAS DEALT WITH INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS

The story of the result of Governor Cox's treatment of industrial issues is told in his parallel
of statements from Thomas J. Donnelly, Secretary of the Ohio Federation of Labor, and W. S.
Thomas, a leading manufacturer.

Statement by Donnelly:

"Before Ohio had a Workmen's Compensation Law, only twenty per cent of the injured workers,
or the widows and children of deceased workers, were paid any compensation or damages.  Eighty
per cent got nothing whatever.  When Cox was first elected governor, about five per cent of
the workers of Ohio were covered under an optional Workmen's Compensation Law.  His first move
as governor was to insist upon the passage of a Workmen's Compensation Law that would benefit
all the workers.  In this he met with powerful and bitter opposition.  But through his determined
efforts the opposition was overcome and the law was passed.  To-day the Ohio State Insurance
Fund is the largest carrier of workmen's compensation insurance, public or private, in the
world.  More than a million dollars a month is being collected by this fund, all of which is
paid out for compensation and medical treatment for the injured workers or the dependents of
those who are killed in the course of employment.  This law supplied such an urgent need in
the state that the employers and the laboring people of Ohio now look upon it as an accomplishment
that outshines any other achievement in the state's history.

"The report of the legislative agents of the Ohio State Federation of Labor show that fifty-six
laws in behalf of laboring people were passed during Cox's three terms as governor.  Among
these were laws forbidding the exploitation of women and children and limiting their hours
of labor, providing for mothers' pensions, providing for safety codes to protect life, limb
and health and numerous other beneficent measures."

Statement by Thomas:

"His strong sense of right and wrong, and the exercise of an unusual common sense, together
with his frankness and courage in expression, have been the controlling factors in his successful
relationship with the business interests of the state.

"A single example of his wisdom will illustrate this.  For years organized labor and organized
capital in Ohio have met during the sessions of the general assembly in what seemed to be a
necessary antagonism.  This was evidenced by the opposition of each to the proposed measures
of the other.  The result was ill feeling and little accomplished for either.  It was Governor
Cox's suggestion that these organizations, represented by the State Federation of Labor and
the Ohio Manufacturers' Association, through their executive officers, should meet together
and discuss pending legislation relating to the interest of either.  Finally this plan was
adopted, and it is the testimony of those participating tat it did much to avoid misunderstandings,
and contributed a great deal towards sane and safe legislation.  There is not known any instance
of this plan being adopted in any other state of the Union.  The fruit of this sensible procedure
is that there are no laws in Ohio that hamper industry, impede business or endanger property
interests, and at the same time the state is foremost in legislation that promotes social welfare,
gives labor its due, and helps the weak and needy.

"A man who has occupied this position without interruption during three administrations would
be a failure at the very outstart if he resorted to devious conduct or political duplicity.
He has but one master--the people at large.  To reach this position he had to have courage,
be truthful, exercise sound and practical business judgment, and at the same time have a vision
looking to the betterment of the condition of his fellow-man."

The cornerstone of the labor legislation is the Workmen's Compensation Law, the story of which
is told in the state archives, in the messages to the Ohio General Assembly.  At the beginning
of his first term as Governor in 1913, Governor Cox said:

"It would certainly be common bad faith not to pass a compulsory Workmen's Compensation Law.
No subject was discussed during the last campaign with greater elaboration, and it must be
stated to the credit of our citizenship generally that regardless of the differences of opinion
existing for many years, the justice of the compulsory feature is now admitted.  Much of the
criticism of the courts has been due to the trials of personal injury cases under the principles
of practice which held the fellow-servant rule, and assumption of risk and contributory negligence
to be grounds of defense.  The layman reaches his conclusion with respect to justice along
the lines of common sense, and the practice in personal injury cases has been so sharply in
conflict with the plain fundamentals of right, that social unrest has been much contributed
to.  A second phase of this whole subject which has been noted in the development of the great
industrialism of the day has been the inevitable animosity between capital and labor through
the ceaseless litigation growing out of these cases.  The individual or the corporation that
employs on a large scale has taken insurance in liability companies, and, in too many instances,
cases which admitted of little difference of opinion have been carried into the courts. The
third injustice has been the waste occasioned by the system. The injured workman or the family
deprived of its support by accident is not so circumstanced that the case can be contested
with the corporation to the court of last resort.  The need of funds compels compromise on
a base that is not always equitable. Human nature many times drives sharp bargains that can
hardly be endorsed by the moral scale.  In the final analysis the cost of attorney fees is
so heavy that the amount which finally accrues in cases of accident is seriously curtailed
before it reaches the beneficiary.  These three considerations clearly suggest the lifting
of this whole operation out of the courts and the sphere of legal disputation.  And then there
is a broader principle which must be recognized.  There is no characteristic of our civilization
so marked as the element of interdependence as between social units.  We are all dependent
upon our fellows in one way or another.  Some occupations, however, are more hazardous than
others and the rule of the past in compelling those engaged in dangerous activities to bear
unaided the burden of this great risk, is not right.  The Workmen's Compensation Law in this
state, which, however, lacks the compulsory feature, has made steady growth in popularity.
The heavy decrease in rates clearly indicates economy and efficiency in the administration
of the state liability board of awards.  The compulsory feature, however, should at once be
added.  I respectfully but very earnestly urge its adoption amendatory of the present law with
such other changes as experience might dictate.

"The objective to be sought is the fullest measure of protection to those engaged in dangerous
occupations with the least burden of cost to society, because after all the social organization
must pay for it.  The ultimate result of this law will be the reduction in death and accident
because not only the humanitarian but the commercial consideration will suggest the necessity
of installing and maintaining with more vigilance modern safety devices.

"Government as a science must make its improvement along the same practical lines which develop
system, simplification, classification of kindred activities, and better administrative direction
in the evolution of business.  A private or corporate enterprise is compelled to promote in
the highest degree both efficiency and economy because its income is subject to the hazards
of business.  Government without this spur of necessity because its revenue is both regular
and certain, does not effect reorganizations and combine common activities so readily.  One
reason, of course, is that new legislation is required and that is not easy at all times. 
Wherever human energies are now being directed toward more efficient public service, we find
the consolidation under one administrative unit or bureau of all departments which deal either
in direct or different manner with the same general subject.  Investigation develops many duplications
in both labor and expense in the departments of the state.  No business institution would continue
such a policy and recognizing now the importance of conducting the business of the commonwealth
along the same modern and efficient lines of private and corporate operations, there is submitted
herewith to your honorable body two recommendations which, in my judgment, are of tremendous
importance, namely, the creation of an Industrial Commission and a Department of Agriculture.
The first named organization would combine every existing department which deals with the relation
between capital and labor.  It is certainly a logical observation that the department heads
clothed with the responsibility of details will find it extremely difficult to rise to the
moral vision necessary to construct and conserve policies dealing with big things.  Besides
duplication of service is a waste of both human energy and state funds."

In summing up the results of a single year of Workmen's Compensation Law, the Governor at the
beginning of 1915 said:

"The humane results of the Workmen's compensation Law have been so widespread and the wisdom
of the people in changing the constitution so as to make this plan compulsory has been so completely
demonstrated that manufacturer and employee now join in praise of the act.  While the liability
insurance companies contend that the State could not administer this trust and that the cost
would run into millions of dollars per year, the experience of the first twelve months shows
the cost of the administration to be approximately $160,000; and the claims, running far in
excess of 50,000 in number, have been adjudicated with such promptness as to justify in the
fullest measure the soundness of the State plan.  The balance in the fund December 15, 1914,
was $2,418,414.07.  The number of accidents is diminishing and the cost to the employer is
decreasing; so that both lower rates and larger compensation seem assured.  As one who passed
through the stormy period that led to the passage of this law, I urge upon you the extreme
importance of the highest manifestations of vigilance, patriotism and humanity in order that
the fundamentals of this beneficent legislation may be preserved.  Under the pretext of improving
the law it can be easily emasculated.  Ohio assumed the lead in this legislation, and if the
fundamental principle is maintained here, the plan, by its demonstrated worth, will be adopted
elsewhere.  This means the ultimate loss of ill-gotten millions by potential interests that
have grown rich from the tears, blood and maimed bodies of our working people.  They will not
give it up without a continued struggle.  Your duty to humanity and to your State calls for
extreme watchfulness.

Though he suffered defeat for re-election in 1914, neither the Industrial Commission Law nor
the Workmen's compensation Law nor any other major piece of social legislation was disturbed
by his successor.  In reviewing four years of the history of the law at his re-accession to
power in 1917, he said:

"Since the adoption of the law there have been 300,000 industrial accidents and only seventeen
suits have been brought against employers who paid into the state insurance fund.  There was
but one single verdict rendered by the court against the employer in the list of seventeen
and that was for $2000.  Five cases were settled out of court, four were decided in favor of
the employer, one was dismissed by the employee, one was dismissed by the court and four are
still pending.  More than one thousand firms carry their own insurance under state consent,
and against these institutions but five suits have been brought. Against the employers who
have reinsured with the liability insurance companies, eight suits have been instituted, making
a total of thirty law suits from all sources.  These figures are procured from the official
records of the Industrial Commission."

Two years later, in 1919, a further chapter is given:

"The experience of our state with the Compulsory Workmen's Compensation Law bears so vitally
on the industrial life of our people that it is deemed proper to report the outstanding features
of the situation.  The amount of money in the fund held by the State as trustee for the injured
workmen and their dependents, as of date, January 2, 1919, was $15,401,429.74. So carefully
measured has been the cost of human justice that employers pay a smaller premium-rate in Ohio
than elsewhere, and the injured workmen and their dependents are given larger compensation.
A dramatic circumstance which bears eloquent testimony in behalf of this law is here recited:
Not long since a workman was injured in a factory through which runs the boundary line between
Ohio and Pennsylvania.  The accident occurred a few feet east of our state, but the poor fellow
crawled back onto the soil of Ohio because he knew the difference between our law and the law
in Pennsylvania.  As a further evidence of the basic soundness of the law and the character
of its administration, I have directed the Industrial Commission to have an actuarial audit
of the fund in its charge, with the imposed condition that the Ohio Federation of Labor, the
Ohio Manufacturers' Association and the State Auditor be consulted in the employment of the
most competent actuary, obtainable outside the state service, to do the work."

This, then, is the story, but not all of it.  Having its genesis in the meetings between labor
and capital, there has been worked out by the two an elaborate code of safety rules which have
been officially promulgated by the commission and have the binding effect of law.  To-day capital
and labor will demand of his successor that his heart and mind be in accord with the program
carried to fruition in his six years as Governor.  There are other points in his service, briefly
covered here, in these lists:

Laws Pertaining to Business

A public utilities law providing property re-valuation as a basis for rate making.

Provision for court appear from the utilities commission decision to the court of final jurisdiction,
preventing delay and loss.

Prohibition against injunction on rate hearing without court investigation.

A uniform accounting system applied to utilities.

A state banking code with close co-operation with the federal reserve system, bringing all
private banks under state supervision.

State expenditure on a budget system to reduce cost of government and lessen taxation.

A blue-sky act to encourage proper investment and protect against fraudulent securities.

Labor Legislation

A State Industrial Commission with powers to handle all questions affecting capital and labor,
with a state mediator as the keystone.

Complete survey of occupational diseases with recommendation for health and occupational insurance.

Full switching crew in all railroad yards.

Strengthening the user in the state of railroad safety appliances.

A full crew law.

Twenty-four foot caboose.

Reduction of consecutive hours of employment for electric railroad workers.

Obstruction of fixed signals prohibited.

Safeguarding of accidents in mines by proper illumination.

Extra provision for dependents of men killed in mines.

Increased facilities for mine inspector operation.

Protection of miners working toward abandoned mines.

Elimination of sweatshop labor.

Provision for minimum time pay day.

Prohibition of contract labor in workhouses.

Provision for minimum wage and nine-hour working day for women.

Eight-hour working day on all public contracts.

Codification of child laws with establishment of child welfare department.

Compulsory provision for mothers' pensions.

Verdict by three-fourths jury in civil cases.

CHAPTER VII

THE LEADER OF THE STATE IN WAR--VISION IN GOVERNMENT IN PEACE TIME

Theodore Roosevelt said that Governor Cox was among the very foremost of war Governors.  The
utterance was made after he had assessed the things done during the fateful period of hostilities.
Presenting complicated problems at all time it was no less true that in war there were major,
not minor, obstacles to be met and surmounted before Ohio might take her traditional place
as one of the very militant states of the Union.  That she did achieve such place attests the
zeal and ardor of the Governor.  Ohio presented to the country a complete division, the Thirty-seventh,
recruited under the personal supervision of Governor Cox.  It led the nation, by long odds,
in sale of war saving stamps, an activity stimulated by Governor Cox.  It preserved good order
and set an example in spite of many conflicting racial antagonisms within its borders by cultivation
of such a spirit as made open or covert disloyalty dangerous to the disloyal.  Withal there
was no untoward incident affecting peaceful alien enemies.  In the cities, none led those of
Ohio in war gardening, and the tractor campaign for Ohio farms was adopted and imitated in
other states.  The Governor himself was a dynamo of activity, organizing the first State Council
of Defense and enlisting volunteer aid at no expense to state and country in quickening all
war and related activities.  Every situation affecting the State's power found him ready for
the emergency.  When an early frost and severe winter in 1917-18 destroyed much of the seed
corn, the Governor uncovered instances of profiteering and immediately stopped it by vigorous
action.  Corn in other districts with similar soil and climate was brought in and sold at three
dollars a bushel.

Soldiers of no state were better supplied with all the comforts that could be provided than
those of Ohio.  While the Thirty- seventh was in camp in the far South a Christmas train was
sent to it.  Special funds were raised for entertainment of both the Ohio camps.  In a word,
every war activity felt the vigilant care and sympathetic help of the Governor.

During the war time there were few idle men in Ohio.  Through proclamation attention of local
authorities was directed to an old law making vagrancy an offense and it was applied rigorously.

No less in reconstruction than in was activities his energies were tireless.  The Governor
took the lead in securing legislation to correct the defects found in educational laws and
one of the statutes placed upon the books at his suggestion provided for an oath of allegiance
on the part of teachers. Referring to disclosures in certain cities, he said:  "We have had
our bitter experiences and love for our children compels us, in common prudence, to protect them."

Without sympathy for the mischievous spirits who sought to foment trouble in America, the Governor
clearly expressed his conception of Americanization as a voluntary spiritual, and not a compulsory,
process.  The policy he had in mind was indicated in an address in Chicago in March, 1920,
in which he said:

"There must be no compromise with treason, but the surest death to Bolshevism is exposure of
the germ of the disease itself to the sunlight of public view.  We must protect ourselves against
extremes in America.  The horrors and tragedies of revolution can be charged to them.  If government
is assailed, its policy must not become vengeful.  Our fathers in specifying what human freedom
was, and providing guarantees for its preservation, recognized that among the necessary precautions
was the protection of individual right against governmental abuses.

"If the alien, ignorant of our laws and customs, cows in fear of our government, he is very
apt to believe that things are much the same the world over, and he may become and easy convert
to the doctrine of resistance.  The skies will clear but meanwhile government must be firm,
yet judicial, uninfluenced by the emotionalism that breeds extremes.  The less government we
have, consistent with safety to life and property, the better for both happiness and morals.
A policeman on every corner would be a bad index to the citizenship of the community, for it
would reflect a foolish concept of conditions by the municipal officers."

The vision of Governor Cox in legislation is best to be studied in the statute book of Ohio.
The fact is that he was a pioneer in some of this, indeed in a large part of it.  Through the
years he has insisted that government must deal with its problem by evolution lest revolution
overtake it.  It was this sentiment that led him to deal with the industrial injury matter.
When he heard men inveighing against the courts, a discerning eye knew something was wrong
and he gave his attention to righting that wrong.  His creed, not recently as a candidate,
but in the years of his public career, has been expressed in this summary:  "Our view is toward
the sunrise of tomorrow with its progress and its eternal promise of better things."

The expression is found so frequently in his state documents that it might properly be set
forth in the form of a creed.  But there has been more than what the great Roosevelt called
"lip- service to progress.  The forward steps became a part of the laws.

In health affairs he asked for the appointment of a commission to study the need for adequate
local administration and he urged its adoption before the General Assembly so forcefully that
Ohio to-day has what is universally recognized to be the best system in America.  In placing
the state department upon a footing commensurate with other institutions of government, case
was taken to place it where it cannot be prostituted to partisanship.  There has been a growing
number of governmental departments under Governor Cox in which partisanship is utterly forbidden.
They include the Board of Administration, dealing with the wards of the state, the social agencies,
the educational, and the Fish and Game Department.  An actual census in all the varied public
office activities in Ohio would disclose that although the Democratic party has been in possession
of the Government for nearly all of the past twelve years, the number of members of the Republican
party on the public rolls is almost as great as that of the victors.  The Governor has found
that men in the world of business employ, at larger compensation than the state has afforded,
the type of men he has most often selected for responsible posts.  It is one of the curious
effects of progress in government that it has touched and awakened progress in business and
in civic life.

In social service there has been evolved the cold storage act which has served as a model for
proposed national legislation. under its provisions a strict limitation of time is placed upon
the storing of food.  With this has gone strict legislation against adulteration of food and
honest enforcement of the laws.

Other states have accepted as a model the social agency committee now working in effective
co-operation with state departments and bringing into mutual operation all recognized social
agencies.  One of the greatest steps forward was the establishment of a bureau of juvenile
research with Dr. L. H. Goddard at its head.

Second to no other reform has been that effected in handling of the prison problem.  Prisoners
now earn their freedom through work in the healthful out-of-doors on highways, in plants for
making road material, and on farms.  There is a system of compensation to the families for
work done as a balance on which to begin life anew.

Twelve hundred consolidated schools in Ohio attest the successful workings of the rural school
code which was brought into existence in 1914 after careful study and after the state in general
meetings had carefully studied the plans.  The old one-room school house is giving way in the
country to the modern centralized school and community life is being remade.  Through the raising
of the country school to the plane of those of the cities, it will be possible to check the
alarming drift to the cities and depopulation of the countryside.  Governor Cox does not believe
that the federal government should interfere in the affairs of local communities but he does
believe that it "can inventory the possibilities of progressive education, and in helpful manner
create an enlarged public interest in this subject."

Along with the improvement of rural schools has gone a most comprehensive highway programme
involving an annual outlay of millions of dollars.  Gradually as highways are improved they
will, under the state policy shaped in 1913, be taken over by the state.

The agricultural legislation was in consonance with the other subjects touched.  Ohio was long
a dumping ground for inferior fertilizers, diseased livestock and impure seed.  Adequate laws
have changed all this.  Still, these are police measures not of necessity a true index of real
vision in agricultural matters. The boldest step ever taken was the establishment of pure bred
herds of cattle by the state with opportunity afforded through breeding service at institutional
farms to extend these pure strains to the small farms.  The success attained is reflected in
numerous heard of thorough-bred cattle.

CHAPTER VIII

FIGHTING "SLUSH FUNDS"

Developments of the present campaign have given a peculiar interest to past history with respect
to the record of Governor Cox in dealing with campaign expenditures.  The Governor's reports,
which have been filed under the Ohio Corrupt Practice law, show that he has never been an extravagant
spender in campaigns.  In his various races for the Governor's office in Ohio one of the points
which he has claimed is the redemption of pledges made to the people.  Under one of these pledges
he advocated and secured the enactment of an anti-lobby law, designed to reduce the evils attendant
upon the presence of a legislative lobby.  He found upon the statute books of Ohio a corrupt
practice act and this was strengthened by laws passed during his term.  In taking hold as Governor
in 1913, he demanded and secured a rigid lobby law.  Of this he said:

"Conditions not only justify but demand drastic anti-lobby law. Any person interesting himself
in legislation will not, if his motive and cause be just, object to registering his name, residence
and the matters he is espousing, with the secretary of state, or some other authority designated
by your body.  If his activities be of such nature that he does not care to reveal them in
the manner indicated, then the public interest is obviously endangered.  It is no more than
a prudent safeguard to have it known what influences are at work with respect to legislation.
There ought to be no temporizing with this situation."

In the first year of his administration he combated an attempt to annul the workmen's compensation
law by an improper referendum and vigorously cleaned up the situation by causing the arrest
of those who had conspired to falsify names to petitions.  The Governor followed up his activity
for clean administration of the referendum system by comprehensive laws in 1914, since when
no abuses have been discovered.  What he said to the General Assembly gave a further indication
of his policy in this respect.  He said:

"The underlying spirit of the corrupt practice laws in the state and nation is the ascertainment
of the influences behind candidates or measures.  We can with profit compel a sworn itemized
statement when the petition is filed showing all money or things of value paid, given or promised
for circulating such petitions."

In the campaign of 1916, in which Governor Cox was re-elected, assertions were made of large
improper expenditure of money in defiance of the law.  In the following January at the regular
session of the General Assembly, the Governor indicated his position by calling for a special
legislative inquiry.  The statements he made furnish an interesting background for the developments
of the year.  At that time he said:

"Let me lay particular emphasis on the necessity of safeguarding the suffrage thought of the
state from the dangers of corrupt influences.  The sums of money expended for so-called political
purposes are assuming such magnitude as to cause seemingly well- founded alarm, if not to justify
the belief that the legitimate purpose of campaigning is being exceeded.  Unfettered by law,
this tendency might result in the waters of our free institutions being poisoned at their very
base.  Reduced to simple terms, the object of a campaign is to inform the voters on every subject
that legitimately and germanely joins to the issues and the candidates.  Any step beyond this,
and any project opposed to it in motive, cannot but be regarded as dangerous. Human frailties
should not be played upon by vast treasures of money advanced by men or movements whose huge
disbursements can hardly be looked upon as of patriotic inspiration.  It is not necessary to
expend large amounts of money for the promotion of a worthy cause, and, inversely, any cause
or candidacy having behind it unprecedented financial support is likely to be regarded with
suspicion.  It may, through legislation, be necessary to restrain irresponsible organizations
whose existence and activities are born of a hidden design, conceived by some interest afraid
to operate in the open.  I recommend that a legislative committee of investigation be appointed
with the power to employ counsel, and the authority to summon persons and papers and to swear
witnesses in order that it might be known just what organizations have been entering into campaign
activities, and how much money they expended and collected--also the names of the contributors.
This should extend also to candidates.  The facts as adduced will then be a safe guide as to
the necessity of strengthening the corrupt practices act, or more rigorously enforcing existing
law, or both."

The legislative session had hardly concluded before the war with Germany broke out and it was
deemed unwise at that time to proceed to any agitation on the subject.  The functions of the
committee were, accordingly never fulfilled.  Early in the year of 1920, the Governor gave
warning of the report that huge funds were to be raised in this year for election purposes.
At the very outset of his campaign in addressing the members of Democratic National Committee
at Columbus, the Governor said:

"I hope I do violence to no member of this committee when I submit to you this proposal:  That
we purpose not only to deal with eminent good faith with the electorate of this nation in November
with reference to platform pledges, but we mean to let every man and woman understand where
every dollar comes from, and for what purpose it is spent.  We not only urge that as a matter
of high principle, but in order to guarantee the triumph of our cause which deserves to triumph.
We do not want the publication of expenditures after the election.  There is no point in advising
the voters what has been done.  We want them to be fully advised of every circumstance with
reference to the collection and the disbursement of funds in order that from the circumstances
they can gain a correct index, and understand that when the Democracy is continued in power
in Washington, it assumes its responsibility without a single obligation except to the conscience
that God has given us.

"Therefore, gentlemen, let us make up a budget which will carry the full details and information--recounting
the legitimate expenses of this campaign, render an accounting daily or weekly, and the source
from which it came. The sultry Chapter remained as opponents openly and honestly; as soon as
his anger subsided, you could maybe tie again, since it Germany's trade unit really close to its heart.
For the present course, the Munich court had the Prussian-Hessian Club open meet, he tried to
free credits and similar small funds hinüberzulocken the marketing of casting and Vilbel on the
line-Fulda Hersfeld demanded by the house of Thurn und Taxis, that the Frankfurt-Aschaffenburg
post about Hanau, not by the gut's urban area will be conducted, etc.

The decisive battle ensued at the Kassel court, once again, the Hessian Disastrous trade policy
for the whole of Germany. The Grand Duke of Hesse had the Berlin negotiations only approved
in the certain expectation that the Kassel Vetter His example was to follow. Why did the Prussian-Hessian
contract until May secret; for never had the pride of the Kassel despot decided to publish an already
Contract subsequently join and to accept that is before the world that the less powerful Darmstadt
had preceded him. Hofmann went in February, on his return from Berlin, to Kassel, and thought
the situation to find quite cheap. Baron von Meysenbug and other senior officials with whom
he spoke in confidence, gave him first to admit that after Kurhessen Darmstadt candidate should
hesitate no longer: the only connection to the shattered Prussia could Economy to save. However,
Hofmann was in error, even after 24 hours he had to empty- Remove thing. "To this court wrote,
you are Thil, rational calculations are not permitted." Behind and above the officers drove the Reichenbach
[The mistress of the elector.] Its essence, the still hoped for an Austrian prince crown.

On such land to the poor skills of the small farms, the site had been
prepared.

An army camp of official and secret negotiators, they gathered in spring 1828 to Kassel, to the
keep Elector of Prussia. From Bavaria appeared the secret councils Oberkamp and strainer, the
former is well-trained in the intrigue of the Eschenheimer street; vd his friend Tann sent over to
King Louis. Württemberg worked for the old agitator Miller Immenstadt, now Württemberg tax
advice. Saxony came from Baron von Lützerode, from Hannover Kammerrat Lueder, and also Coburg
Meiningen sent negotiators. Then, "was released to the general Terror «President v. Porbeck of Arnsberg
to the Berlin Cabinet of the confused Drive to report. The Darmstadt government renewed its attempt
in March and sent Prince Wittgenstein to tell the electors: Prussia had agreed that the Access
to the treaty reserving Electoral Hesse Darmstadt and file the application, the Grand Duke
liberty therefore to ask whether the elector to dispatch an agent approved. On 12 March spoke
of the Prince Elector of his thank you so much. But after three days to beat the wind. It
may be that Wittgenstein appeared too confident was whether it was that Oberkamp Reichenbach and
the elector, the shame of subjugation had described under Prussian command - enough on 15
March was the Minister of Finance make-up a letter to depart du Thil, in that tone that was possible
only in Kassel or Köthen: »SK sovereignty can not perform without great sensitivity, that in
a Majesty The same Majesty and Electoral quite foreign contract on the part of the Grand Ducal
Court Stipulations in relation to the electorate have been received and taken an initiative has
been that the baths in respect of the grand ducal house not even allowed to added. Highest same are
not convinced that the interests of the electorate according to had to sacrifice such a convention
the previous system. "The worst phrases had placed by hand into the elector in writing. thundered
at a new audience he Wittgenstein: "I'm the head of the Hessian House, presumptions, such as the Grand
Duke has allowed, I will not tolerate;. I can not grant the request of the Grand Duke " Even Wittgenstein's
mission had failed.

Eichhorn suspected that had the southern crown hands in games recommended that the federal Minister
Nagler and all the ambassadors in the highlands sharp attention to the trade policy of small
Courtyards. Two trends, he said, act towards us in Kassel.

The Bavarian-Wuerttemberg Kurhessen association is looking to win for himself, he is plagued by perverse
political side thoughts and rests on the false principle that the landlocked countries of the coastal
countries, regardless should do, "with each expansion, the system loses itself" to support and
inner context.
  In Congress his career afforded him no opportunity to attain
to high distinction, but he became a member of the appropriations committee and there became
most deeply impressed with the waste in public funds and the unbusinesslike methods of arriving
at appropriations.  One of his services was the disclosure that the care of Civil War veterans
in the National Soldiers' Home at Dayton was shattered, and he won the contest for increased
allowances.  The gratitude of the veterans was expressed in a majority from the Home in his
re- election in 1910, thus breaking an historical precedent.

Two years later he became the champion of the constitutional amendments proposed by the Fourth
Constitutional Convention of Ohio, then sitting, and as such was unanimously nominated by his
party for Governor, on a platform which demanded a "new order" of things in Ohio.  As soon
as he was nominated he took the platform before the people for the adoption of the constitutional
amendments in a special September election.  These amendments included one providing for the
initiative and referendum of which he had been an advocate for years, and one for the removal
of officials failing to enforce the laws, giving the Governor the weapon with which he established
his law- enforcement record.  There was very little to the campaign in that year, the historical
Republican party splitting in two upon the issue of progressiveness, and he was elected by
an enormous plurality.  Facing the tasks imposed by the new constitution, the Governor insisted
upon legislative fulfillment of each popular mandate, and in a busy session of three months
he accomplished his programme.

Aside from the legislation suggested by the amendments, his greatest constructive step was
the enactment of a budget system, which sought to place the financial affairs of Ohio upon
a businesslike basis.  Its worth as a saver of money and promoter of efficiency has never been
challenged.  The previous Ohio fiscal system had grown grossly archaic.  Appropriations were
made by the Legislature to the departments in lump sums or in the form of granting all receipts
and balances, some of the departments being maintained by the fees from interests they regulated.
Of the departments having receipts of their own, many had deposits of their own in banks and
their own checking accounts, so that their funds never passed through the State Treasury or
through the hands of the State Auditor.  Other departments got much or little from the Legislature,
depending upon whether they had a gifted representative to appear for them before the legislative
finance committee.  Institutions vied with each other in providing the best entertainment to
these committees as they made their week-end junket trips over the State during legislative
sessions.

All this was changed in one sweeping stroke in the first administration of Governor Cox.  All
receipts of all departments now go into the State Treasury and none leave the treasury until
it is appropriated in specific sums for specific purposes within specific departments.  The
state auditor has a check on every expenditure.

The Ohio budget department is composed of one commissioner appointed by the Governor, an assistant
and a clerk.  All departmental requests for funds desired of the next succeeding Legislature
are filed with the Budget Commissioner, to be brought before the Governor.  He investigates
all items, ascertains the reasons for any increases that are asked, and fixes the sums he deems
proper.  Also, he estimates what the State revenues during the next biennium will be and prunes
the budget to come within the total of expected revenues.  The budget as prepared by the commissioner
is submitted to the Governor, who frequently makes changes of his own after advising with department
heads.

The Governor then presents the budget to the Legislature, which refers it to the finance committees
of the two houses.  The committees, and, in turn, the Legislature, have full authority to make
any alterations, increases or decreases, desired, but the spellbinding by department representatives
and wire-pulling by lobbyists are reduced to a minimum because the Budget Commissioner sits
as the agent of the Governor at all sessions of the finance committees and at all times is
prepared to defend the allowance he thinks a department should have.

The first budgetary appropriation bill repealed an existing appropriation law.  It reduced
appropriations aggregating $9,709,288 to $8,762,664, a saving of $946,624.  Since that time
the Ohio budget system has effected savings of millions, not, of course, in the sense that
expenditures of the State government now are less than in 1913--for they have increased as
governmental activities have enlarged--but in the sense that expenditures each year have been
vastly less than they would have been without the budget plan of pruning and scaling down demands
of existing State departments with a view both to general economy and avoidance of deficits.

The Ohio Budget and consequently its appropriation law classifies expenditures in two divisions:
(1) Operating expenses and (2) Capital outlay (or permanent improvements).

Operating expenses are subdivided into personal service and maintenance.  Personal service
in turn is divided into salaries and wages, and maintenance into supplies, materials, equipment,
contract or open order service, and fixed charges and contributions.

Elasticity of funds within departments is afforded by periodical meetings of a board of control,
composed of the Governor (who may be and usually is represented by the Budget commissioner),
the State Auditor, the Attorney-General, and the chairmen of the two legislative finance committees.
If any new need develops within departments, funds for the purpose may be provided by a four-fifths
vote of the board of control.  Effort first is made to transfer the needed funds from one classification
to another within the department.  If no fund within the department has a surplus, and the
need is great enough, relief may be granted by the emergency board, having the same membership
as the board of control, which has at its disposal an emergency fund for contingencies arising
between legislative sessions.  Perfection never has been claimed for the Ohio system.  Governor
Cox himself realizes certain weaknesses in it and is making a fight now for strengthening features,
which, however, necessitate a change in the constitution.  One defect is that, regardless of
probable income, the Legislature may increase items in the budget (or rather the appropriation
bill based on the budget), and it may make other appropriations in separate bills as it sees
fit without regard to prospective revenues.

In his 1919 message to the General Assembly, a Republican body, the Governor urged submission
to the people of an amendment to the constitution providing that the Legislature shall have
the right to diminish any item in the executive budget by majority vote or to strike out any
item:  that, however, it shall not be privileged to increase any item or to add a new one unless
it makes legislative provision for sufficient revenue to meet the added cost.  Such an amendment
was not submitted.  Unless it is done by an early legislature, adherents of Cox in Ohio say
it may be undertaken by initiative petition.

Good Roads

Another notable achievement of Governor Cox is the advance of the Ohio highway system.  Roads
were in deplorable shape when he became Governor.  There was no hope for rural counties with
small tax duplicates, the ones in greatest need of good roads never being able to lift themselves
out of the mud except through liberal state aid.

One of the Governor's first acts was a survey of road conditions.  A complete network of 10,000
miles of inter-county roads was mapped out.  It connected the eighty-eight county seats.  Of
the 10,000 miles of inter-county highways, 3000 miles, connecting the larger cities, were designated
as main market roads.  The scheme of financing called for improvement of the main market roads
entirely at state expense, which the remainder of the system was to be built on a fifty-fifty
basis, the state furnishing half the funds, and the county in which the road lies, the other half.

All road improvement under the Cox administration has been given such an impetus that the State,
county and township programmes to-day call for an expenditure of $30,000,000 annually, including
federal aid.  Popular demand for highway improvement is greater than the State Highway department
and county commissioners are able to meet.

Revitalizing the Schools

As a pupil in a one-room country school and as a teacher, he had first knowledge of the shortcomings
and possibilities of the Ohio educational system.  It was his firm conviction that the country
boy and girl should be given the same educational advantages that accrued to those of the city.

The purpose of the Governor's school programme was to give Ohio a co-ordinates system of State,
county and district supervision, to require normal or college training of all teachers, and,
above all, to pave the way for speedier centralization and consolidation of the one-room district
school.  Results have been beyond the expectations of school men, every breath and opposition
to the system has blown away, and it may truthfully be said that it has become an idol of the
people of the state. The re-organization has stimulated interest in education in all respects
and has made possible a more recent establishment of a state-wide teachers' pensions system
and a complete revamping of financial support of schools through a State and county aid plan.
Salaries of teachers have been increased the last six years from a minimum of $40 a month to
a statutory minimum of $800 a school year.  The teacher shortage occasioned by the war will
be solved without much delay in Ohio, as county and state normal schools report prospective
increases in attendance of fifty to one hundred per cent or even greater for next year.

The time had come in 1913 when the little district school with its narrow curriculum and crude
methods of instruction did not meet the needs and purposes of modern industrial and social
life in Ohio.  It had not kept step with rural economic progress.  In the whole State it was
the one evidence of retardation, an institution of bygone days which had deteriorated instead
of having improved.  The right of every child to educational opportunities for development
to the fullest extent of his possibilities was not recognized by the State in the school system
as it existed at that time.  Governor Cox, in his first message to the general assembly in
January, 1913, recommended that a complete school survey be made.  A survey commission was
created.  To acquaint school patrons with the object of the survey in progress and to get them
to discuss in their own communities the defects and the needs of the schools, November 14,
1913, was set apart as "School survey day" and a light burned in every school building in the
State that night. Delegates were appointed to attend a state-wide educational congress the
next month, and in January, 1914, the Governor called a special session to enact the rural
school code.

The survey report disclosed that not half of the teachers of the State ever had attended high
school, nor had normal training. Rural schools were mere stepping stones for young teachers
before securing positions in village and city schools, agriculture was scarcely taught, schools
were without equipment, three-fourths of the buildings were twenty years old or older, unsanitary,
poorly lighted, without ventilation and insufficiently heated.

With one stroke the new school code created county supervision districts under the control
of county boards, elected by the presidents of village and township boards; provided for county
superintendents and supervisors over smaller districts within the county; required academic
and professional training of all new teachers henceforth, and gave communities wider powers
to centralize and consolidate schools.

At present ninety-five per cent of the elementary teachers have had professional training,
and high school teachers are required to be college graduates or have equivalent scholastic
attainment.  The most common faults of class-room instruction have been to a great extent eliminated.
Standard methods of presentation are being practices in an attempt to give to each child opportunity
for development of his possibilities. 

Besides the new creatures with the air district also countless germs of future developments, Insects,
eggs and egg plant, by the hair and feather-crown for long autumn tour geschikt is. Even the
life-giving dust that, for separated families, the male Flowers sow, who winds and winged insects
of the sea and the lonely female country to. Wherever the eye of the naturalist penetrate is life,
or germ of life, widespread.

But also serves the moving sea of ​​air into which we are immersed, and the surface we are not
able to raise, many organic creatures to most necessary food; Sun must be the same here but still a
coarse meal, which only the bottom of this gaseous Oceans presents. This soil is twofold Art
The smaller part is the dry Earth, surrounded immediately by air, the gröxseren forms part of
the water, perhaps once together may thousands of years ago by electrical fire from air like substances,
and Jezter incessantly in the workshop of the clouds, as in the pulsating vessels of animals and plants,
decomposed.

Draw is to find greater vitality spread be; whether on the Continent, or in the uncharted seas. This appears
gelatinous Seegewürme, now alive, sometimes dead, as shining stars. Your phosphoric light converts
the greenish surface of the immense Ocean into a sea of ​​fire around. Indelible impression
of me is that quiet tropical nights the South Pacific remain, where the fragrant blue sky, the
high stellar image of the ship and the reduced under continuous cross
poured out its mild planetary light, and where both the foaming Meeresfluth
the dolphins their shining furrows covered.

But not the ocean alone, and the swamp water covers a multitude of
creeping things of wonderful Shape. Our eyes are almost unrecognizable
Cyclidien, the cilia and the Trichodes Army of Naiden, divisible by
branches, such as Lemna, look for their shadows.  They have brought to the rural pupils trained teachers,
well-equipped buildings, courses of study related to the interests of the farm and home by
being well-balanced between the cultural and vocational.  They have made it possible for the
country boy who remains on the farm to obtain a high school education in his own community
that is directly related to his needs.  Scientific agriculture under trained instructors is
taught in all of these schools.  The possibilities of the farm and of rural life are thus revealed
to the boy and he will be equipped with knowledge necessary to the scientific performance of
his work.  From the farm instead of the law office and the counting room will come those who
know what the needs and interests of the farmer are and who will be qualified to represent
those interests.

While the system still may be said to be in its infancy, the progress of transformation of
Ohio schools under it has been nothing short of wonderful, and unending results may be expected
of it.

This extensive legislation had aroused many prejudices particularly, in the rural sections,
of which his opponent, Congressman Frank B. Willis, took advantage.  The bold challenge of
the Governor to his opponent was stated by him on the platform in many parts of Ohio "Which
law will you repeal?"  The question was never answered, but the tide of opposition to the changes
swept Governor Cox out of office, although he ran many thousands ahead of his associates. 
In the succeeding sessions of the General Assembly popular sentiment began once more to swing
to Governor Cox and two years later he was re-elected by a small plurality.  Improvement in
the various laws was sought during his next term, but the shadow of the world war was already
beginning to fall, and the greater part of his efforts were devoted to preparation for Ohio's part.

In general administration the Governor's supporters are fond of saying that he met successfully

      In his first term a flood,
      In his second term a war,
      In his third term reconstruction.

The flood story was the one that really introduced him first to the country at large.  Ohio
was hit by a calamity greater than any that had befallen a state.  Columbus, Dayton, Marietta,
Hamilton and other cities were under water for days, many villages were almost washed off the
map, and hundreds of lives and untold millions of property were lost.  Bridges everywhere were
washed out and transportation was practically at a standstill.  The eyes of the State and Country
were on the then untried Governor Cox.  He met the situation in a manner that will never be
forgotten in Ohio.  The Ohio National Guard was called out, stricken communities were placed
under martial law, civilian relief armies under the command of mayors and other designated
leaders organized everywhere, Ohio's motor truck, automobile and other facilities commandeered,
and the work of feeding, clothing, cleaning up and rehabilitation carried on from the beginning
with astounding efficiency.

The New York World at that time said of him:

"The man who has dominated the situation in Ohio is Governor Cox.  He has been not only chief
magistrate and commander-in- chief, but the head of the life-saving service, the greatest provider
of food and clothing the State has ever known, the principal health officer, the sanest counselor,
the severest disciplinarian, the kindest philanthropist and best reporter.  He has performed
incredible labors in all these fields, and his illuminating dispatches to the World at the
close of the heart- breaking days have given a clearer vision of conditions than could be had
from any other source. 

It would be a company worthy of a great artist, the character of all these groups of plants not under
glass or in the descriptions of the botanists, but in the great tropical nature themselves to study.
How interesting and instructive for the landscape painter would be a work which the eye of
the enumerated sixteen major forms, first singly, then in its contrasts against each other, represented.
What is more picturesque than tree-like ferns, their delicately woven Mexican bay leaves on the oak
spread out!

The time has gone by when in Ohio the major things in the programme of Governor Cox can be
attacked successfully before the people of the State.  He does not claim perfection. Suggestion
as to improvement has found him ready to listen. There is still a short time for him to serve,
but the public judgment has been made up, and Buckeye citizens, without regard to party affiliation,
says that he has been a "good Governor."

