The Nazim's agent at Court, on the 18th of November, submitted to the minister his master's
report of this affair, in which it was stated, that the banker was a defaulter on account of
his own estate, and those of the other landholders for whom he had given security--that he,
the Nazim, had earnestly urged him to some adjustment of his accounts, but all in vain--that
the banker had disregarded all his demands and remonstrances, and had with him five hundred
armed followers, one of whom had fired his pistol at him, the Nazim, and killed one of his
men--that they had all then joined in an attack upon the Nazim and his men, and that, in defending
themselves, they had killed the banker. On the 19th, another report, dated the 16th, reached
the minister from the Nazim's camp, stating, that the banker had come to his tent at ten at
night, with his armed followers, and had an interview [with] him--that as the banker rose to
depart, the Nazim told him that he must not go without some settlement of his accounts; and
a dispute followed, in which the banker was killed, and two of the Nazim's followers were severely
wounded-that so great was the confusion that the Durbar news-reporters could not approach to
get information.

On the 20th, a third report reached the minister, stating, that the Rajah of Bulrampoor had
come with the banker to visit the Nazim, but had taken leave and departed before the collision
took place--that the Nazim urged the necessity of an immediate settlement of accounts, but
the banker refused to make any, grossly abused the Nazim, and, at last, presented his pistol
and fired at him; and thereby wounded two of his people--that he was, in consequence, killed
by the Nazim's people, who joined the banker's own people in the plunder of his camp.

On receiving this last report, the minister, by order of his Majesty, presented to the agent
of the Nazim a dress of honour of fourteen pieces, such as is given to the highest officers
for the most important services; and ordered him to send it to his master, to mark the sense
his sovereign entertained of his gallant conduct and valuable services, in crushing so great
a rebel and oppressor, and to assure him of a long-continued tenure of office.

By the interposition of the British Resident and the aid of the magistrate of Goruckpoor, Mr.
Chester, the real truth was elicited, the Nazim was dismissed from office, and committed for
trial, before the highest judicial Court at Lucknow. He at first ran off to Goruckpoor, taking
with him, besides his own, two elephants belonging to the Rajah of Gonda, with property on
them to the value of fifty thousand rupees, which he overtook in his flight. The Rajah had
sent off these elephants with his valuables, on hearing of the assassination of the banker,
thinking that the Nazim would secure impunity for this murder, as Hakeem Mehndee had for that
of Amur Sing, and be tempted to extend his operations. Finding the district of Goruckpoor unsafe,
the Nazim came back and surrendered himself at Lucknow. Jafir Allee was afterwards seized in
Lucknow. There is, however, no chance of either being punished, since many influential persons
about the Court have shared in the booty, and become accessaries interested in their escape.
Moreover, the Nazim is a Mahommedan, a Syud, and a Sheeah. No Sheeah could be sentenced to
death, for the murder, even of a Soonnee, at Lucknow, much less for that of a Hindoo. If a
Hindoo murders a Hindoo, and consents to become a Mussulman, he cannot be so sentenced; and
if he consents to become so after sentence has been passed, it cannot be carried into execution.
Such is the law, and such the every-day practice.

The elephants were recovered and restored through the interposition of the Resident, but none
of the property of the Rajah or the banker has been recovered. May 18, 1851.--The family of
the banker has obtained a renewal of the lease of their, two estates, on agreeing to pay an
increase of forty thousand rupees a-year.

Sirgha Chunda  .  .  .  . 1,20,729  11  0
    Increase   .  .  .  .   30,000   0  0
                           1,50,729  11  0

Akberpoor   .  .  .  .  .   46,015   2  3
    Increase.  .  .  .  .   10,000   0  0
                             56,015   2  3

Total annual demand  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  2,06,744  13  3

They bold the Nazim's bond for the eighty thousand rupees, borrowed only eight days before
his murder.

December 17, 1849.--Five miles to the left bank of the Ghagra, whence crossed over to Fyzabad,
on platformed boats, prepared for the purpose by the Oude authorities. Our tents are in one
of the large mango-groves, which are numerous on the right bank of the river, but scanty on
the opposite bank. From the time we crossed this river at Byram-ghaut on the 5th, till we recrossed
it this morning, we were moving in the jurisdiction of the Nazim of the Gonda and Bahraetch
district. After recrossing the Ghagra we came within that of the Nazim of Sultanpoor, Aga Allee,
who was appointed to it this year, not as a contractor, but manager, under the Durbar. The
districts under contractors are called ijara, or farmed districts; those under the management
of non-contracting servants of Government are called amanee, or districts under the amanut,
or trust of Government officers. The morning was fine, the sky clear, and the ground covered
with hoar frost. It was, pleasing to see so large a camp, passing without noise, inconvenience,
or disorder of any kind in so large a river.

The platformed boats were numerous, and so were the pier-heads prepared on both sides, for
the convenience of embarking and landing. Carriages, horses, palankeens, camels and troops,
all passed without the slightest difficulty. The elephants were preparing to cross, some in
boats and some by swimming, as might seem to them best. Some refuse to swim, and others to
enter boats, and some refuse to do either; but the fault is generally with their drivers. On
the present occasion, two or three remained behind, one plunged into the stream from his boat,
in the middle of the river, with his driver on his back, and both disappeared for a time, but
neither was hurt. Those that remained on the left bank, got tired of their solitude, and were
at last coaxed over, either in boats or in the water.

The Sarjoo rejoins the Ghagra a little above Fyzabad, and the united stream takes the old name
of the Sarjoo. This is the name the river bears, till it emerges from the Tarae forest, when
the large body takes that of the Ghagra, and the small stream, which it throws off, or which
perhaps flows in the old bed, retains that of the Sarjoo. The large branch absorbs the Kooreeala,
Chouka, and other small streams, on its way to rejoin the smaller. Some distance below Fyzabad,
the river takes the name of Dewa; and uniting, afterwards, with the Gunduck, flows into the
Ganges. Fyzabad is three miles above Ajoodheea, on the same bank of the river. It was founded
by the first rulers of the reigning family, and called for some time Bungalow, from a bungalow
which they built on the verge of the stream. Asuf-od Dowlah disliked living near his mother,
after he came to the throne, and he settled at Lucknow, then a small village on the right bank
of the Goomtee river. This village, in the course of eighty years, grown into a city, containing
nearly a million of souls. Fyzabad has declined almost in the same proportion.

The Nazim has six regiments, and part of a seventh, on duty under him, making, nominally, six
thousand fighting men, but that he cannot, he tells me, muster two thousand; and out of the
two thousand, not five hundred would, he says be ready to fight on emergency. All the commandants
of corps reside at Court, knowing nothing whatever of their duties, and never seeing their
regiments. They are mere children, or Court favourites, worse than children. He has, nominally,
forty-two guns, of various calibre; but he, with great difficulty, collected bullocks enough
to draw the three small guns he brought with him from Sultanpoor, to salute the Resident, on
his entering his district. I looked at them in the evening. They were seventy-four in number,
but none of them were in a serviceable condition, and the greater part were small, merely skin
and bone. He was obliged to purchase powder in the bazaar for the salutes; and said, that when
he entered his charge two months ago, the usual salute of seven guns, for himself, could not
be fired for want of powder, and he was obliged to send to the bazaar to purchase what was
required. The bazaar-powder used by the Oude troops is about one- third of the strength of
the powder used by our troops. His authority is despised by all the tallookdars of the district,
many of whom refuse to pay any rent, defy the Government, and plunder the country, as all their
rents are insufficient to pay the armed bands which they keep up. All his numerous applications
to Court, for more and better troops and establishments, are disregarded, and he is helpless.
He cannot collect the revenue, or coerce the refractory landholders and robbers, who prey upon
the country.*

[* The Nazim for 1850-51, got both Captain Magness's and Captain Banbury's regiments.]

He says that the two companies and two guns, which were sent out at the Resident's urgent recommendation,
to take possession of Shahgunge, and prevent the two brothers, Maun Sing and Rughbur Sing,
from disturbing the peace of the country, in their contests with each other, joined Maun Sing,
as partisan; to oppose his brother; and that Maun Sing has taken for himself all the bynamah
lands, from which his brother, Rughbur Sing, has been ousted, under the favour of the minister.
He tells me also, that Beebee Sogura, the lady who holds the estate of Muneearpoor, and pays
fifty thousand rupees a-year to the Government, was seized by Wajid Allee, his predecessor,
before he made over charge of the district to him, and made over to a body of troops, on condition,
that she should enter into engagement to pay to them the ten months' arrears of pay due to
them, out of the rents of the ensuing year; and that they should give him receipts for the
full amount of these arrears of pay at once, to be forwarded to the Durbar, that he might get
credit for the amount in his accounts for last year--that she has paid them fifteen thousand
rupees, but can collect no more from her tenants, as the crops are all being cut or destroyed
by the troops, and she is in close confinement, and treated with cruel indignity. The rent-roll
of her estate is, it is said, equal to one hundred thousand rupees a year.

This was a common practice among governors of districts at the close of last year; and thus
they got credit, on account, for large sums, pretended to have been paid out of the revenues
of last year; but, in reality, to be paid out of the revenues of the ensuing year. But the
collections are left to be made by the troops, for whose arrears of pay the revenue has been
assigned, and they generally destroy or extort double what they are entitled to from their
unhappy debtors. This practice of assigning revenues due, or to be due, by landholders, for
the arrears of pay due to the troops, is the source of much evil; and is had recourse to only
when contractors and other collectors of revenue are unable to enforce payment in any other
way; or require to make it appear that they have collected more than they really have; and
to saddle the revenue of the ensuing year with the burthens properly incident upon those of
the past. The commandant of the troops commonly takes possession of the lands, upon the rents,
or revenues, of which the payments have been assigned, and appropriates the whole produce to
himself and his soldiers, without regard to the rights of landholders, farmers, cultivators,
capitalists, or any other class of persons, who may have invested their capital and labour
in the lands, or depend upon the crops for their subsistence. The troops, too, are rendered
unfit for service by such arrangements, since all their time is taken up in the more congenial
duty of looking after the estate, till they have desolated it. The officers and soldiers are
converted into manorial under-stewards of the worst possible description. They are available
for no other duty till they have paid themselves all that may have been due or may become due
to them during the time of their stay, and credit to Government but a small portion of what
they exact from the landholders and cultivators, or consume or destroy as food, fodder, and fuel.

This system, injurious alike to the sovereign, the troops, and the people, is becoming every
season more and more common in Oude; and must, in a few years, embrace nearly the whole of
the land-revenue of the country. It is denominated kubz, or contract, and is of two kinds,
the "lakulame kubz," or pledge to collect and pay a certain sum, for which the estate is held
to be liable; and "wuslee kubz," or pledge to pay to the collector or troops the precise sum
which the commandant may be able to collect from the estate put under him. In the first, the
commandant who takes the kubz must pay to the Government collector or the troops the full sum
for which the estate is held to be liable, whether he be able to collect it or not, and his
kubz is valid at the Treasury, as so much money paid to the troops. In the second, it is valid
only as a pledge, to collect as much as he can, and to pay what he collects to the Government
collector, or the troops he commands. The collector, however, commonly understands that he
has shifted off the burthen of payment to the troops--to the extent of the sum named--from
his own shoulders to those of the commandant of the troops; and the troops understand, that
unless they collect this sum they will never get it, or be obliged to screw it out of their
commandant; and they go to the work con amore. If they can't collect it from the sale of all
the crops of the season, they seize and sell all the stock and property of all kinds to be
found on the estate; and if this will not suffice, they will not scruple to seize and sell
the women and children. The collector, whose tenure of office seldom extends beyond the season,
cares little as to the mode as long as he gets the money, and feels quite sure that the sovereign
and his Court will care just as little, and ask no questions, should the troops sell every
living thing to be found on the estate.

The history, for the last few years, of the estate of Muneearpoor, involves that of the estate
of Kupragow and Seheepoor, held by the family of the late Hurpaul Sing, and may be interesting
as illustrative of the state of society in Oude. Hurpaul Sing's family is shown in the accompanying
note.*

[* Purotee Sing had two sons, Gunga Persaud and Nihal Sing. Gunga Persaud had one son, Seosewak,
who had three sons, Seoumber Sing, Hobdar Sing, and Hurpaul Sing. Seoumber Sing had one son,
Ramsurroop Sing, the present head of the family, who holds the fort and estate of Kupradehee.
Hobdar Sing had one son, who died young. Hurpaul Sing died young, Nihal Sing had no son, but
left a widow, who holds his share of one-half of the estate, and resides at Seheepoor.]

In the year A.D. 1821, after the death of Purotee Sing, his second son, Nihal Sing, held one-half
of the estate, and resided in Seheepoor, and the family of his eldest son, Gunga Persaud, held
the other half, and resided in Kupragow. The whole paid a revenue to Government of between
six and seven hundred rupees a-year, and yielded a rent-roll of something more than double
that sum. The neighbouring estate of Muneearpoor, yielding a rent-roll of about three hundred
and fifty thousand rupees a-year, was held by Roshun Zuman Khan, in whose family it had been
for many generations. He had an only brother, Busawan Khan, who died, leaving a widow, Bussoo,
and a daughter, the Beebee, or Lady, Sogura. Roshun Zuman Khan also died, leaving a widow Rahamanee,
who succeeded to the estate, but soon died, and left it to the Lady Sogura and her mother.
They made Nihal Sing, Gurgbunsee, of Seheepoor, manager of their affairs. From the time that
he entered upon the management, Nihil Sing began to increase the number of his followers from
his own clan, the Gurgbunsies; and, having now become powerful enough, he turned out his mistress,
and took possession of her estate, in collusion with the local authorities.

Rajah Dursun Sing, who then, 1836, held the contract for the district, wished to take advantage
of the occasion, to seize upon the estate for himself, and a quarrel, in consequence, took
place between him and Nihal Sing. Unable, as a public servant of the State, to lead his own
troops against him, Dursun Sing instigated Baboo Bureear Sing, of Bhetee, a powerful tallookdar,
to attack Nihal Sing at night, with all the armed followers he could muster, and, in the fight,
Nihal Sing was killed. Hurpaul Sing, his nephew, applied for aid to the Durbar, and Seodeen
Sing was sent, with a considerable force, to aid him against Bureear Sing. When they were ready
for the attack, Dursun Sing sent a reinforcement of troops, secretly, to Bureear Sing, which
so frightened Seodeen Sing, that he retired from the conflict.

The Gurgbunsee family had, however, by this time added a great part of the Muneearpoor estate
to their own, and many other estates belonging to their weaker neighbours; and, by the plunder
of villages, and robbery on the highways, become very powerful. Dursun Sing was superseded
in the contract, in 1837, by the widow of Hadee Allee Khan; and Hurpaul recovered possession
of the Muneearpoor estate, which he still held in the name of the Lady Sogura. In 1843, she
managed to get the estate transferred from the jurisdiction of the contractor for Sultanpoor,
to that of the Hozoor Tehseel, and held it till 1845, when Maun Sing, who had succeeded to
the contract for the district, on the death of his father, Dursun Sing, in 1844, managed through
his uncle, Bukhtawar Sing, to get the estate restored to his jurisdiction. Knowing that his
object was to absorb her estate, as he and his father had done so many others, she went off
to Lucknow to seek protection; but Maun Sing seized upon all her nankar and seer lands, and
put the estate under the management of his own officers. The Lady Sogura, unable to get any
one to plead her cause at Court, in opposition to the powerful influence, of Bukhtawur Sing,
returned to Muneearpoor. Maun Sing, after he had collected the greater part of the revenue
for 1846, made over the estate to Hurpaul and Seoumber Sing, who put the lady into confinement,
and plundered her of all she had left.

Feeling now secure in the possession of the Muneearpoor estate, Hurpaul and Seoumber Sing left
a small guard to secure the lady, and went off, with the rest of their forces, to seize upon
the estate of Birsingpoor, in the purgunnah of Dehra, belonging to the widow of Mahdoo Sing,
the tallookdar. She summoned to her aid Roostum Sa and other Rajkomar landholders, friends
of her late husband. A fight ensued, in which Seoumber Sing and his brother, Hobdar Sing were
killed. Hurpaul Sing fled and returned to his fort of Kupragow. The Lady Sogura escaped, and
presented herself again to the Court of Lucknow, under better auspices; and orders were sent
to Maun Sing, and all the military authorities, to restore her to the possession of her estate,
and seize or destroy Hurpaul Sing. In alarm Hurpaul Sing then released the mother of the Lady
Sogura, and prepared to fly.

Maun Sing sent confidential persons to him to say, that he had been ordered by the Court of
Lucknow to confer upon him a dress of honour or condolence, on the death of his two lamented
brothers, and should do so in person the next day. Hurpaul Sing was considered one of the bravest
men in Oude, but he was then sick on his bed, and unable to move. He received the message without
suspicion, being anxious for some small interval of repose; and willing to believe that common
interests and pursuits had united him and Maun Sing in something like bonds of friendship.

Maun Sing came in the afternoon, and rested under a banyan-tree, which stood opposite the gateway
of the fort. He apologized for not entering the fort, on the ground, that it might lead to
some collision between their followers, or that his friend might not wish any of the King's
servants, who attended with the dress of honour, to enter his fortress. Hurpaul Sing left all
his followers inside the gate, and was brought out to Maun Sing in a litter, unable to sit
up without support. The two friends embraced and conversed together with seeming cordiality
till long after sunset, when Maun Sing, after investing his friend with the dress of honour,
took leave and mounted his horse. This was the concerted signal for his followers to despatch
his sick friend, Hurpaul. As he cantered off, at the sound of his kettle-drum and the other
instruments of music, used by the Nazims of districts, his armed followers, who had by degrees
gathered round the tree, without awakening any suspicion, seized the sick man, dragged him
on the ground, a distance of about thirty paces, and then put him to death. He was first shot
through the chest, and then stabbed with spears, cut to pieces with swords, and left on the
ground. They were fired upon from the fort, while engaged in this foul murder, but all escaped
unhurt. Maun Sing had sworn by the holy Ganges, and still more holy head of Mahadeo, that his
friend should suffer no personal hurt in this interview; and the credulous and no less cruel
and rapacious Gurgbunsies were lulled into security. The three persons who murdered Hurpaul,
were Nujeeb Khan, who has left Mann Sing's service, Benee Sing, who still serves him, and Jeskurun
Sing, who has since died. Sadik Hoseyn and many others aided them in dragging their victim
to the place where he was murdered, but the wounds which killed him were inflicted by the above-named
persons.

The family fled, the fort was seized and plundered of all that could be found, and the estate
seized and put under the management of Government officers. Maun Sing had collected half the
revenues of 1847, when he was superseded in the contract by Wajid Allee Khan, who re-established
the Lady Sogura in the possession of all that remained of her estate. He, at the same time,
reinstated the family of Hurpaul Sing, in the possession of their now large estate--that is,
the widow of Nihal Sing, to Seheepoor, comprising one-half; and Ramsurroop Sing, the son of
Seoumber Sing, to Kupragow, comprising the other half.* The rent-roll of the whole is now estimated
at 1,29,000 a- year; and the nankar, or recognized allowance for the holders, is 73,000, leaving
the Government demand at 56,000, of which they hardly ever pay one-half, or one-quarter, being
inveterate robbers and rebels. Wajid Allee Khan had been commissioned, by the Durbar, to restore
the Lady Sogura to her patrimonial estate, and he brought her with him from Lucknow for the
purpose; but he soon after made over a part of the estate to his friend, Bakir Allee, of Esoulee,
and another part to Ramsurroop, the son of Seoumber Sing, for a suitable consideration, and
left only one-half to the Lady Sogura. This she at first refused to take, but he promised to
restore the whole the next year, when he saw she was resolved to return again to her friends
at Lucknow, and she consented to take the offered half on condition of a large remission of
the Government demand upon it. When the season of collections came, however, he would make
no remission for the half he had permitted her to retain, or give her any share in the perquisites
of the half he had made over to others; nor would he give her credit for any portion of the
collections, which had been anticipated by Maun Sing. He made her pledge the whole rents of
her estate to Hoseyn Allee Khan, the commandant of a squadron of cavalry, on detached duty,
under him. Unable to conduct the management under all these outrages and exactions, she begged
to have the estate put under Government officers. Her friends at Court got an order issued
for her being restored to the possession of the whole estate, having credit for the whole amount
collected by Maun Sing, and a remission in the revenue equal to all that Government allowed
to the proprietors of such estates.

[* In May 1851, the Nazim besieged Ramsurroop, in Kupragow, with a very large force, including
Bunbury's and Magness's Regiments and Artillery. After the loss of many lives from fighting,
and more from cholera, on both sides, Ramsurroop marched out with all his garrison and guns
at night, and passed, unmolested, through that part of the line where the non-fighting corps
were posted.]

Wajid Allee Khan disregarded the order, and made over or sold Naraenpoor and other villages
belonging to the estate, to Rughbur Sing, the atrocious brother of Maun Sing, who sent his
myrmidons to take possession. They killed the Lady Sogura's two agents in the management, plundered
her of all she had of property, and all the rents which she had up to that time collected,
for payment to Government; and took possession of Naraenpoor and the other villages, sold to
their master by Wajid Allee. Wajid Allee soon after came with a large force, seized the lady
and carried her off to his camp, put all her officers and attendants into confinement, and
refused all access to her. When she became ill, and appeared likely to sink under the treatment
she received, he made her enter into written engagements to pay to the troops, in liquidation
of their arrears of pay, all that he pretended that she owed to the State. He prevailed upon
Ghuffoor Beg, who commanded the artillery, to take these her pledges, and give him, Wajid Allee,
corresponding receipts for the amount, for transmission to the Treasury; and then made her
over a prisoner to him. Ghuffoor Beg took possession of the lady and the estate, kept her in
close confinement, and employed his artillery-men in making the collections in their own way,
by appropriating all the harvests to themselves.

Wajid Allee was superseded in October 1849, by Aga Allee, who, on entering on his charge, directed
that martial-law should cease in Muneearpoor; but Ghuffoor Beg and his artillery-men were too
strong for the governor, and refused to give up the possession of so nice an estate. When I
approached the estate in my tour, Ghuffoor Beg took the lady off to Chundoly, where she was
treated with all manner of indignity and cruelty by the artillery. The estate was going to
utter ruin under their ignorant and reckless management, and the Nazim, Aga Allee, prayed me
to interpose and save it, and protect the poor Lady Sogura. I represented the hardship of the
case to the Durbar, but with little hope of any success, under the present government, who
say, that if the troops are not allowed to pay themselves in this way, they shall have to pay
them all the arrears for which the estate is pledged, not one rupee of which is reduced by
the collections they make. If they were to hold the estate for twenty years, they would not
allow it to appear that any portion of the arrears had been paid off. The estate is a noble
one, and, in spite of all the usurpations and disorders from which it has lately suffered,
was capable last year of yielding to Government a revenue of fifty thousand rupees a- year,
after providing liberally for all the requirements of the poor Lady Sogura and her family,
or a rent-roll of one hundred thousand rupees a-year.

December 19, 1849.--Shahgunge, distance twelve miles. This town is surrounded by a mud wall,
forty feet thick, and a ditch three miles round, built thirty years ago, and now much out of
repair. It belongs to the family of Rajah Bukhtawar Sing. The wall, thirty feet high, was built
of the mud taken from the ditch, in which there is now some six or seven feet of water. The
wall has twenty-four bastions for guns, but there is no platform, or road for guns, round it
on the inside. A number of respectable merchants and tradesmen reside in this town, where they
are better protected than in any other town in Oude. It contains a population of between twenty
and thirty thousand persons. They put thatch over the mud walls during the rains to preserve
them. The fortifications and dwelling-houses together are said to have cost the family above
ten lacs of rupees. There are some fourteen old guns in the fort. Though it would be difficult
to shell a garrison out of a fort of this extent, it would not be difficult to take it. No
garrison, sufficient to defend all parts of so extended a wall, could be maintained by the
holder; and it would be easy to fill the ditch and scale the walls. Besides, the family is
so very unpopular among the military classes around, whose lands they have seized upon, that
thousands would come to the aid of any government force brought to crush them, and overwhelm
the garrison. They keep their position only by the purchase of Court favour, and have the respect
and attachment of only the better sort of cultivators, who are not of the military classes,
and could be of little use to them in a collision with their sovereign. The family by which
it is held has long been very influential at Court, where it has been represented by Bukhtawar
Sing, whose brother, Dursun Sing, was the most powerful subject that Oude has had since the
time of Almas Allee Khan. They live, however, in the midst of hundreds of sturdy Rajpoots,
whom they have deprived of their lands, and who would, as I have said, rise against them were
they to be at any time opposed to the Government The country over which we have passed this
morning is well studded with groves, and well cultivated; and the peasantry seemed contented
and prosperous. The greater part of the road lay through the lands acquired, as already described,
by this family. Though they have acquired the property in the land by abuse of authority, collusion
and violence, from its rightful owners, they keep their faith with the cultivators, effectually
protect them from thieves, robbers, the violence of their neighbours, and, above all, from
the ravages of the King's troops; and they encourage the settlement of the better or more skilful
and industrious classes of cultivators in their villages, such as Kachies, Koormies, and Lodhies.
They came out from numerous villages, and in considerable bodies, to salute me, and expressed
themselves well satisfied with their condition, and the security they enjoyed under their present
landholders. We came through the village of Puleea, and Rajah Bukhtawar Sing seemed to have
great pleasure in showing me the house in which he was born, seventy-five years ago, under
a fine tamarind- tree that is still in vigour. The history of this family is that of many others
in the Oude territory.

The father of Bukhtawar Sing, Porunder, was the son of Mungul, a Brahmin, who resided in Bhojpoor,
on the right bank of the Ganges, a little below Buxar. The son, Porunder, was united in marriage
to the daughter of Sudhae Misser, a respectable Brahmin, who resided in Puleea, and held a
share of the lands. He persuaded his son-in-law to take up his residence in the same village.
Prouder had five sons born to him in this village:-- 1. Rajah Bukhtawar Sing, my Quartermaster-
General. 2. Pursun Sing, died without issue. 3. Rajah Dursun Sing, died 1844, leaving three
sons. 4. Incha Sing lives, and has two sons. 5. Davey Sing died, leaving two sons.

The eldest son was a trooper in the Honourable Company's 8th Regiment of Light Cavalry; and
while still a very young man, and home on furlough, he attracted the attention of Saadnt Allee
Khan, the sovereign of Oude, whom he attended on a sporting excursion. He was very tall, and
exceedingly handsome; and, on one occasion, saved his sovereign's life from the sword of an
assassin. He became one of Saadut Alee's favourite orderlies, and rose to the command of a
squadron. In a fine picture of Saadut Allee and his Court on the occasion of a Durbar, at which
the Resident, Colonel Scott, and his suite were present, Bukhtawar Sing is represented in the
dress he wore as an orderly cavalry officer. This picture is still preserved at Lucknow. His
brothers, Dursun, Incha, and Davey Sing became, one after the other, orderlies in the same
manner, under the influence of Bukhtawar Sing, during the reign of Saadnt Allee, and his son,
Ghazee-od Deen. Dursan Sing got the command of a regiment of Nujeebs in 1814, and Incha Sing
and Davey Sing rose in favour and rank, both civil and military.

Bhudursa and five other villages were held in proprietary right by the members of a family
of Syuds. They enjoyed Bhudursa rent free, and still hold it; but the other five villages (Kyl,
Mahdono, Tindooa, Teroo, and Pursun) were bestowed, in jagheer, upon another Syud, a Court
favourite, Khoda Buksh, in 1814. He fell into disfavour in 1816, and all these and other villages
were let, in 1817, to Dursun Sing, in farm, at 60,000 rupees a-year. The bestowal of an estate
in jagheer, or farm, ought not to interfere with the rights of the proprietors of the lands
comprised in it, as the sovereign transfers merely his own territorial rights, not theirs;
but Dursun Sing, before the year 1820, had, by rack-renting, lending on mortgage, and other
fraudulent or violent means, deprived all the Syud proprietors of their lands in the other
five villages. They were, however, still left in possession of Bhudursa. He pursued the same
system, as far as possible, in the other districts, which were, from time to time, placed under
him, as contractor for the revenue. He held the contract for Sultanpoor and other districts,
altogether yielding fifty-nine lacs of rupees a-year, in 1827; and it was then that he first
bethought himself of securing his family permanently in the possession of the lands he had
seized, or might seize upon, by bynamahs, or deeds of sale, from the old proprietors.

He imposed upon the lands he coveted, rates which he knew they could never pay; took all the
property of the proprietors for rent, or for the wages of the mounted and foot soldiers, whom
he placed over them, or quartered upon their villages, to enforce his demands; seized any neighbouring
banker or capitalist whom he could lay hold of, and by confinement and harsh treatment, made
him stand security for the suffering proprietors, for sums they never owed; and when these
proprietors were made to appear to be irretrievably involved in debt to the State and to individuals,
and had no hope of release from prison by any other means, they consented to sign the bynamahs,
or sale deeds for lands, which their families had possessed for centuries. Those of the capitalists
who had no friends at Court were made to pay the money, for which they had been forced to pledge
themselves; and those who had such friends, got the sums which they had engaged to pay, represented
as irrecoverable balances due by proprietors, and struck off. The proprietors themselves, plundered
of all they had in the world, and without any hope of redress, left the country, or took service
under our Government, or that of Oude, or descended to the rank of day-labourers or cultivators
in other estates.*

[* Estates held by the family under bynamahs or sale deeds:

   1. Puchumrath .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1,13,000
   2. Howelee .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   45,000
   3. Mogulsee, including Hindoo Sing's
      estate of Shapoor, obtained by
      fraud and violence  .  .  .  .  .  .   28,000
   4. Bhurteepoor and Laltapoor .  .  .  .   30,000
   5. Rudowlee   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   12,000
      Turolee in Huldeemow.  .  .  .  .  .   17,000
   6. Bahraetch in Sagonputtee  .  .  .  .    4,000
   7. Gosaengunge   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    3,000

            Total Company's Rupees .  .  . 2,52,000

Dursun Sing's contracts, for the land revenue, of districts, amounted from 1827 to 1830, to
59,00,000 rupees a year. From 1830 to 1836, to 58,00,000. In 1836 to 46,100,000. In 1837 to
47,00,000. He continued to hold the whole or greater part of these districts up to September 1843.]

There were four brothers, the sons of a Canoongo, of Fyzabad; first, Birj Lal; second, Lala;
third, Humeer Sing, a corporal in one of our Regiments of Native Infantry; fourth, Hunooman
Persaud; fifth, Gunga Persaud. The family held-eight villages, in hereditary right, with a
rent-roll of 6,000, of which they paid 3,000 to Government, and took 3,000 for themselves.
While Dursun Sing was dying, in 1844, his eldest son, Ramadeen, tried to get possession of
this estate. He seized and confined, in the usual way, Gunga Persaud, the Canoongo, and kept
him with harsh treatment, for 1844; and when his brother the corporal complained, in the usual
way, through the Resident, Gunga Persaud was released, and he attended the Residents Court,
as his brother's attorney, till 1847, when the family recovered possession of the estate. But
in 1846, when Dursun Sing's son saw that the case was going against him, he made their local
agent, Davey Persaud, plunder all the eight villages of all the stock in cattle, grain, &c.,
that they contained, and all the people, of whatever property they possessed.

Dursun Sing's family now pay to the Oude Government, a revenue of 1,88,000 rupees a-year, for
their bynamah estates, which were acquired by them in the manner described. The rent-roll,
recognized in the Exchequer, is 2,56,000; and the nankar 68,000; but the real rent-roll is
much greater-perhaps double. The village of Tendooa, in Mehdona, belonged, in hereditary right,
to Soorujbulee Sing and Rugonauth Sing, Rajpoots, whom the family of Dursun Sing wished to
coerce, in the usual mode, into signing a bynamah, or deed of sale. They refused, and some
of the family are said to have been in confinement in consequence, since the year A.D. 1844.
When Gunga Persaud, the Canoongo, was confined by Dursun Sing's family, on account of his own
estate, they extorted from him, on the pretence of his being security for the punctual payment
of what might be demanded from these two men, Soorujbulee' and Rugonauth, the sum of 4,000
rupees. One of the eight villages, held by the Canoongoes, named Aboo Surae, Ghalib Jung, alias
Dursun Sing, another Court favourite, is now trying to take by violence, for himself, following
the practice of his namesake. He has possessed himself of many by the same means, keeping the
troops he commands upon them at exercise and target- practice, till he drives both cultivators
and proprietors out, or shoots them.

