It is the same with architecture. The classic Greek runs into the excessive elaboration of
the Roman period, the Gothic into the flamboyant, and so on. We, have had several attacks of
architectural measles in this country, which have left the land spotted all over with houses
in bad taste. Instead of developing the colonial simplicity on lines of dignity and harmony
to modern use, we stuck on the pseudo-classic, we broke out in the Mansard, we broke all up
into the whimsicalities of the so-called Queen Anne, without regard to climate or comfort.
The eye speedily tires of all these things. It is a positive relief to look at an old colonial
mansion, even if it is as plain as a barn. What the eye demands is simple lines, proportion,
harmony in mass, dignity; above all, adaptation to use. And what we must have also is individuality
in house and in furniture; that makes the city, the village, picturesque and interesting. The
highest thing in architecture, as in literature, is the development of individuality in simplicity.

Dress is a dangerous topic to meddle with. I myself like the attire of the maidens of Scheria,
though Nausicaa, we must note, was "clad royally." But climate cannot be disregarded, and the
vestment that was so fitting on a Greek girl whom I saw at the Second Cataract of the Nile
would scarcely be appropriate in New York. If the maidens of one of our colleges for girls,
say Vassar for illustration, habited like the Phaeacian girls of Scheria, went down to the
Hudson to cleanse the rich robes of the house, and were surprised by the advent of a stranger
from the city, landing from a steamboat--a wandering broker, let us say, clad in wide trousers,
long topcoat, and a tall hat--I fancy that he would be more astonished than Ulysses was at
the bevy of girls that scattered at his approach. It is not that women must be all things to
all men, but that their simplicity must conform to time and circumstance. What I do not understand
is that simplicity gets banished altogether, and that fashion, on a dictation that no one can
trace the origin of, makes that lovely in the eyes of women today which will seem utterly abhorrent
to them tomorrow. There appears to be no line of taste running through the changes. The only
consolation to you, the woman of the moment, is that while the costume your grandmother wore
makes her, in the painting, a guy in your eyes, the costume you wear will give your grandchildren
the same impression of you. And the satisfaction for you is the thought that the latter raiment
will be worse than the other two--that is to say, less well suited to display the shape, station,
and noble air which brought Ulysses to his knees on the sands of Corfu.

Another reason why I say that I do not know whether simplicity belongs to nature or art is
that fashion is as strong to pervert and disfigure in savage nations as it is in civilized.
It runs to as much eccentricity in hair-dressing and ornament in the costume of the jingling
belles of Nootka and the maidens of Nubia as in any court or coterie which we aspire to imitate.
The only difference is that remote and unsophisticated communities are more constant to a style
they once adopt. There are isolated peasant communities in Europe who have kept for centuries
the most uncouth and inconvenient attire, while we have run through a dozen variations in the
art of attraction by dress, from the most puffed and bulbous ballooning to the extreme of limpness
and lankness. I can only conclude that the civilized human being is a restless creature, whose
motives in regard to costumes are utterly unfathomable.

We need, however, to go a little further in this question of simplicity. Nausicaa was "clad
royally." There was a distinction, then, between her and her handmaidens. She was clad simply,
according to her condition. Taste does not by any means lead to uniformity. I have read of
a commune in which all the women dressed alike and unbecomingly, so as to discourage all attempt
to please or attract, or to give value to the different accents of beauty. The end of those
women was worse than the beginning. Simplicity is not ugliness, nor poverty, nor barrenness,
nor necessarily plainness. What is simplicity for another may not be for you, for your condition,
your tastes, especially for your wants. It is a personal question. You go beyond simplicity
when you attempt to appropriate more than your wants, your aspirations, whatever they are,
demand--that is, to appropriate for show, for ostentation, more than your life can assimilate,
can make thoroughly yours. There is no limit to what you may have, if it is necessary for you,
if it is not a superfluity to you. What would be simplicity to you may be superfluity to another.
The rich robes that Nausicaa wore she wore like a goddess. The moment your dress, your house,
your house-grounds, your furniture, your scale of living, are beyond the rational satisfaction
of your own desires--that is, are for ostentation, for imposition upon the public--they are
superfluous, the line of simplicity is passed. Every human being has a right to whatever can
best feed his life, satisfy his legitimate desires, contribute to the growth of his soul. It
is not for me to judge whether this is luxury or want. There is no merit in riches nor in poverty.
There is merit in that simplicity of life which seeks to grasp no more than is necessary for
the development and enjoyment of the individual. Most of us, in all conditions; are weighted
down with superfluities or worried to acquire them. Simplicity is making the journey of this
life with just baggage enough.

The needs of every person differ from the needs of every other; we can make no standard for
wants or possessions. But the world would be greatly transformed and much more easy to live
in if everybody limited his acquisitions to his ability to assimilate them to his life. The
destruction of simplicity is a craving for things, not because we need them, but because others
have them. Because one man who lives in a plain little house, in all the restrictions of mean
surroundings, would be happier in a mansion suited to his taste and his wants, is no argument
that another man, living in a palace, in useless ostentation, would not be better off in a
dwelling which conforms to his cultivation and habits. It is so hard to learn the lesson that
there is no satisfaction in gaining more than we personally want.

The matter of simplicity, then, comes into literary style, into building, into dress, into
life, individualized always by one's personality. In each we aim at the expression of the best
that is in us, not at imitation or ostentation.

The women in history, in legend, in poetry, whom we love, we do not love because they are "clad
royally." In our day, to be clad royally is scarcely a distinction. To have a superfluity is
not a distinction. But in those moments when we have a clear vision of life, that which seems
to us most admirable and desirable is the simplicity that endears to us the idyl of Nausicaa.

THE ENGLISH VOLUNTEERS DURING THE LATE INVASION

