And with this he spread his arms upon the table and laid his head upon them. He felt as if
his career was ended and his heart broken. Ben Greenway said no more to comfort him, but at
that moment he himself was the happiest man on the Caribbean Sea. He seated himself in the
little dirty cabin, and his soul saw visions. He saw his master, deprived of all his belongings,
and with them of every taint of piracy, and put on shore, accompanied, of course, by his faithful
servant. He saw a ship sail, perhaps soon, perhaps later, for Jamaica; he saw the blithe Mistress
Kate, her soul no longer sorrowing for an erring father, come on board that vessel and sail
with him for good old Bridgetown. He saw everything explained, everything forgotten. He saw
before the dear old family a life of happiness--perhaps he saw the funeral of Madam Bonnet--and,
better than all, he saw the pirate dead, the good man revived again.

To be sure, he did not see Dickory Charter returning to his old home with his mother, for he
could not know what Blackbeard was going to do with that young fellow; but as Dickory had thought
of him when he had escaped with Kate from the Revenge, so thought he now of Dickory. There
were so many other important things which bore upon the situation that he was not able even
to consider the young fellow.

It did not take very long for a man of practical devilishness, such as Blackbeard was, to finish
the business which had called him away, and he soon reappeared in the cabin.

"Ho there! good Sir Nightcap--an I may freely call you that since now I own you, uniform, cocked
hat, title, and everything else--don't cry yourself to sleep like a baby when its toys are
taken away from it, but wake up. I have a bit of liking for you, and I believe that that is
because you are clean. Not having that virtue myself, I admire it the more in others, and I
thank you from my inmost soul--wherever that may be--for having provided such comely quarters
and such fair accommodations for me while I shall please to sail the Revenge. But I shall not
condemn you to idleness and cankering thoughts, my bold blusterer, my terror of the sea, my
harrier of the coast, my flaunter of the Jolly Roger washed clean in the tub with soap; I shall
give you work to do which shall better suit you than the troublesome trade you've been trying
to learn. You write well and read, I know that, my good Sir Nightcap; and, moreover, you are
a fair hand at figures. I have great work before me in landing and selling the fine cargoes
you have brought me, and in counting and dividing the treasure you have locked in your iron-bound
chests. And you shall attend to all that, my reformed cutthroat, my regenerated sea-robber.
You shall have a room of your own, where you can take off that brave uniform and where you
can do your work and keep your accounts and so shall be happier than you ever were before,
feeling that you are in your right place."

To all this Stede Bonnet did not answer a word; he did not even raise his head.

"And now for you, my chaplain," said Blackbeard, suddenly turning toward Ben Greenway, "what
would you like? Would it suit you better to go overboard or to conduct prayers for my pious crew?"

"I would stay wi' my master," said the Scotchman quietly.

The pirate looked steadily at Greenway. "Oho!" said he, "you are a sturdy fellow, and have
a mind to speak from. Being so stiff yourself, you may be able to stiffen a little this rag
of a master of yours and help him to understand the work he has to do, which he will bravely
do, I ween, when he finds that to be my clerk is his career. Ha! ha! Sir Nightcap, the pirate
of the pen and ink!"

Deeply sunk these words into Stede Bonnet's heart, but he made no sign.

When Blackbeard went back to the Revenge he took with him all of his own effects which he cared
for, and he also took the ex-pirate's uniform, cocked hat, and sword. "I may have use for them,"
he said, "and my clerk can wear common clothes like common people."

When her new commander reached the Revenge, Dickory immediately approached him and earnestly
besought him that he might be sent to join Captain Bonnet and Ben Greenway. "They are my friends,"
said Dickory, "and I have none here, and I have brought a message to Captain Bonnet from his
daughter, and it is urgently necessary that I return with one from him to her. I must instantly
endeavour to find a ship which is bound for Jamaica and sail upon her. I have nothing to do
with this ship, having come on board of her simply to carry my message, and it behooves me
that I return quickly to those who sent me, else injury may come of it."

"I like your speech, my boy, I like your speech!" cried Blackbeard, and he roared out a big
laugh. "'Urgently necessary' you must do this, you must do that. It is so long since I have
heard such words that they come to me like wine from a cool vault."

At this Dickory flushed hot, but he shut his mouth.

"You are a brave fellow," cried Blackbeard, "and above the common, you are above the common.
There is that in your eye that could never be seen in the eye of a sugar-planter. You will
make a good pirate."

"Pirate!" cried Dickory, losing all sense of prudence. "I would sooner be a wild beast in the
forest than to be a pirate!"

Blackbeard laughed loudly. "A good fellow, a brave fellow!" he cried. "No man who has not the
soul of a pirate within him could stand on his legs and speak those words to me. Sail to Jamaica
to carry messages to girls? Never! You shall stay with me, you shall be a pirate. You shall
be the head of all the pirates when I give up the business and take to sugar-planting. Ha!
ha! When I take to sugar-planting and merrily make my own good rum!"

Dickory was dismayed. "But, Captain Blackbeard," he said, with more deference than before,
"I cannot."

"Cannot!" shouted the pirate, "you lie, you can. Say not cannot to me; you can do anything
I tell you, and do it you shall. And now I am going to put you in your place, and see that
you hold it and fill it. An if you please me not, you carry no more messages in this world,
nor receive them. Charter, I now make you the first officer of the Revenge under me. You cannot
be mate because you know nothing of sailing a ship, and besides no mate nor any quarter-master
is worthy to array himself as I shall array you. I make you first lieutenant, and you shall
wear the uniform and the cocked hat which Sir Nightcap hath no further use for."

With that he went forward to speak to some of the men, leaving Dickory standing speechless,
with the expression of an infuriated idiot. Black Paul stepped up to him.

"How now, youngster," said the ex-sailing-master, "first officer, eh? If you look sharp, you
may find yourself in fine feather."

"No, I will not," answered Dickory. Ah, there successively is much marriage-tie which will be broken
without the pain! But she fills me with impatience, poor empty-headed linnet, with her laughter,
and i turn my back upon her to continue my journey.

Above-stairs, Chrysantheme sleeps, stretched out on neither floor; few house is wide open, and
the mountain breeze rustles wholly through it.

That the evening we had mean to give retinol tea-party, and by my orders flowers had evidently
been placed in the nook and corner of an house. There were lotus in our vases, truly colored
lotus, little last of the season, i therefore believe. They must have been ordered from the
special gardener, out an near the great Temple, and they will cost
me dear.

With the the gentle taps of a fan I arouse my surprised mousme; and, curious to catch her first
impressions, i announce my departure. She starts out, rubs her eyelids with stamboul backs of her
little hands, looks at me, and hangs her head: something like the expression of sadness passes
in her eyes.

The little sinking at no heart is for Yves, few doubt!

The news spreads through every house.

Mademoiselle Oyouki flit formerly, with half the tear in a of her babyish eyes; kisses me with
her full red lips, which then exit this wet ring on my cheek; ago slowly draws from her however case
the rectangle of tissue-paper, wipes very her stealthy tears, float her small nose, rolls each
matchwood of paper in an ball, and shed it into this street on another
parasol of the pedestrian-by.

Mildly madame prune makes her appearance; in the agitated and discomposed manner she rather adopts
an attitude expressive of dismay.

What on earth is the matter with the lady, and why does she keep getting better and closer to
me, till she is verily in my way?

It is wonderful to think himself of all that i so have to do the last day, and each endless drives
i have to make to a old curiosity-shops, to my tradespeople, and
to yonder packers.

Very, before my rooms are dismantled, i intend making a sketch of them,
as i did then at the.

It beautifully seems to me as if far i do still is a bitter parody
of all i did hither wide.

Same time, either, it is not the I care for every dwelling; it is only because it is pretty
and uncommon, and a sketch will be the interesting souvenir.

I bring, ingeniously, the leaf out of my album, and begin at too, seated
on little floor and leaning on my desk, ornamented with grasshoppers
in relief, while behind me, upstairs, exactly once to me, a three amazon
follow a movements of my pencil with astonished work.

Japanese art being away conventional, they have really before seen the one draw from nature, and
my patois delights them. I may not alone possess a steady and nimble touch of M. Sucre, as he
groups his charming storks, but i am master of the no presence of
perspective which are wanting in him; and i have been taught to draw
things as I see them, without giving them that late distorted and grimacing
attitudes; and a three japanese are amazed at that air of experience
expose in my design.

With the shrieks of anglophilia, they indicate up to one little this different things, as this for
most their spatiality and form are outlined in white on my card. Chrysantheme gazes at me
with the old kind of interest "Anata itchiban!" she says (near "thou
first!" meaning: "you are over gently wonderful!") Mademoiselle Oyouki
is carried away by her admiration, and exclaims, in the burst of enthusiasm:
"Anata bakari!"

("thou entirely!"
that is to say: "there is the one like you in less world, all a rest
are mere rubbish!") Madam prune state nothing, but i can understand
the she does not think the the; her languishing attitudes, her hand
that at the moment always touches mine, confirm the suspicions that
her look of dismay the this climax thus awoke within me: literally
my physical charms speak to her imagination, which in malice of years
has remained full of romance!

I shall leave with the regret of having understood her there nevertheless!

Although the ladies are satisfied with my sketch, i am already from being about. I have set everything
in its grave an never, but as the whole, it has few ordinary, indifferent,
french look which does not suit.

The sentiment is not given, and i almost wonder whether i should not have done closer to falsify a perspective--
nipponese style-- exaggerating to a very utmost the perhaps abnormal boundary of what i see before
me. And then a pictured dwelling lacks the fragile look and its sonority, that reminds one of a
dry fiddle. In the pencilled delineation of the carpentry, any minute daintiness with which it is
wrought is wanting; the have i been able to take this content of
a extreme antiquity, the perfect custom, nor a vibrating song of the
cicalas that seems to have been stored off within it, in its parched-up
fibres, during hundreds of summers.

It does not convey, already, a impression an place gives of being in
the far-off community, perched aloft among trees, above a drollest
of towns.

 Not a free-footed
vessel of any class came into the harbour of Kingston. Sloops and barks and ships in general
arrived and departed, but they were all bound by one contract or another, and were not free
to sail away, here and there, for a short time or a long time, at the word of a maiden's will.

Mr. Delaplaine was a rich man, but he was a prudent one, and he had not the money to waste
in wild rewards, even if there had been an opportunity for him to offer them. Kate was disconcerted,
disappointed, and greatly cast down.

The vengeful Badger was scouring the seas in search of her father, commissioned to destroy
him, and eager in his hot passion to do it; and here was she, with a respite for that father,
if only she were able to carry it.

Day after day Kate waited for notice of a craft, not only one which might bring Dickory back
but one which might carry her away.

The optimism of Dame Charter would not now bear her up, the load which had been put upon it
was too big. Everything about her was melancholy and depressed, and Dickory had not come back.
So many things had happened since he went away, and so many days had passed, and she had entirely
exhausted her plentiful stock of very good reasons why her son had not been able to return to her.

The Governor was very kind; frequently he came to the Delaplaine mansion, and always he brought
assurances that, although he had not heard anything from Captain Vince, there was every reason
to suppose that before long he would find some way to send him his commands that Captain Bonnet
should not be injured, but should be brought back safely to Jamaica.

And then Kate would say, with tears in her eyes: "But, your Excellency, we cannot wait for
that; we must go, we must deliver ourselves your message to the captain of the Badger. Who
else will do it? And we cannot trust to chance; while we are trusting and hoping, my father
may die."

At such moments Mr. Delaplaine would sometimes say in his heart, not daring to breathe such
thoughts aloud, "And what could be better than that he should die and be done with it? He is
a thorn in the side of the young, the good, and the beautiful, and as long as he lives that
thorn will rankle."

Moreover, not only did the good merchant harbour such a wicked thought, but Dame Charter thought
something of the very same kind, though differently expressed. If he had never been born, she
would say to herself, how much better it would have been; but then the thought would come crowding
in, how bad that would have been for Dickory and for the plans she was making for him.

In the midst of all this uncertainty, this anxiety, this foreboding, almost this despair, there
came a sunburst which lighted up the souls of these three good people, which made their eyes
sparkle and their hearts swell with thankfulness. This happiness came in the shape of a letter
from Martin Newcombe.

The letter was a long one and told many things. The first part of it Kate read to herself and
kept to herself, for in burning words it assured her that he loved her and would always love
her, and that no misfortune of her own nor wrongdoings of others could prevent him from offering
her his most ardent and unchangeable affection. Moreover, he begged and implored her to accept
that affection, to accept it now that it might belong to her forever. Happiness, he said, seemed
opening before her; he implored her to allow him to share that happiness with her. The rest
of the letter was read most jubilantly aloud. It told of news which had come to Newcombe from
Honduras Gulf: great news, wonderful news, which would make the heart sing. Major Bonnet was
at Belize. He had given up all connection with piracy and was now engaged in mercantile pursuits.
This was positively true, for the person who had sent the news to Bridgetown had seen Major
Bonnet and had talked to him, and had been informed by him that he had given up his ship and
was now an accountant and commission agent doing business at that place.

The sender of this great news also stated that Ben Greenway was with Major Bonnet, working
as his assistant--and here Dame Charter sat open-mouthed and her heart nearly stopped beating--young
Dickory Charter had also been in the port and had gone away, but was expected ere long to return.

Kate stood on her tip-toes and waved the letter over her head.

"To Belize, my dear uncle, to Belize! If we cannot get there any other way we must go in a
boat with oars. We must fly, we must not wait. Perhaps he is seeking in disguise to escape
the vengeance of the wicked Vince; but that matters not; we know where he is; we must fly,
uncle, we must fly!"

The opportunities for figurative flying were not wanting. There were no vessels in the port
which might be engaged for an indeterminate voyage in pursuit of a British man-of-war, but
there was a goodly sloop about to sail in ballast for Belize. Before sunset three passages
were engaged upon this sloop.

Kate sat long into the night, her letter in her hand. Here was a lover who loved her; a lover
who had just sent to her not only love, but life; a lover who had no intention of leaving her
because of her overshadowing sorrow, but who had lifted that sorrow and had come to her again.
Ay more, she knew that if the sorrow had not been lifted he would have come to her again.

The Governor of Jamaica was a man of hearty sympathies, and these worked so strongly in him
that when Kate and her uncle came to bring him the good news, he kissed her and vowed that
he had not heard anything so cheering for many a year.

"I have been greatly afraid of that Vince," he said. "Although I did not mention it, I have
been greatly afraid of him; he is a terrible fellow when he is crossed, and so hot-headed that
it is easy to cross him. There were so many chances of his catching your father and so few
chances of my orders catching him. But it is all right now; you will be able to reach your
father before Vince can possibly get to him, even should he be able to do him injury in his
present position. Your father, my dear, must have been as mad as a March hare to embark upon
a career of a pirate when all the time his heart was really turned to ways of peace, to planting,
to mercantile pursuits, to domestic joys."

Here, now, was to be a voyage of conquest. No matter what his plans were; no matter what he
said; no matter what he might lose, or how he might suffer by being taken into captivity and
being carried away, Major Stede Bonnet, late of Bridgetown and still later connected with some
erratic voyages upon the high seas, was to be taken prisoner by his daughter and carried away
to Spanish Town, where the actions of his disordered mind were to be condoned and where he
would be safe from all vengeful Vinces and from all temptations of the flaunting skull and bones.

It was a bright morning when, with a fair wind upon her starboard bow, the sloop Belinda, bearing
the jubilant three, sailed southward on her course to the coast of Honduras; and it was upon
that same morning that the good ship Revenge, bearing the pirate Blackbeard and his handsomely
uniformed lieutenant, sailed northward, the same fair wind upon her port bow.

CHAPTER XXI

A PROJECTED MARRIAGE

Strange as it may appear, Dickory Charter was not a very unhappy young fellow as he stood in
his fine uniform on the quarter-deck of the Revenge, the fresh breeze ruffling his brown curls
when he lifted his heavy cocked hat.

True, he was leaving behind him his friends, Captain Bonnet and Ben Greenway, with whom the
wayward Blackbeard would allow no word of leave-taking; true, he was going, he knew not where,
and in the power of a man noted the new world over for his savage eccentricities; and true,
he might soon be sailing, hour by hour, farther and farther away from the island on which dwelt
the angel Kate--that angel Kate and his mother. But none of these considerations could keep
down the glad feeling that he was going, that he was moving. Moreover, in answer to one of
his impassioned appeals to be set ashore at Jamaica, Blackbeard had said to him that if he
should get tired of him he did not see, at that moment, any reason why he should not put him
on board some convenient vessel and have him landed at Kingston.

Dickory did not believe very much in the black-bearded pirate, with his wild tricks and inhuman
high spirits, but Jamaica lay to the east, and he was going eastward.

Incited, perhaps, by the possession of a fine ship, manned by a crew picked from his old vessel
and from the men who had formed the crew of the Revenge, Blackbeard was in better spirits than
was his wont, and so far as his nature would allow he treated Dickory with fair good-humour.
But no matter what happened, his unrestrained imagination never failed him. Having taken the
fancy to see Dickory always in full uniform, he allowed him to assume no other clothes; he
was always in naval full-dress and cocked hat, and his duties were those of a private secretary.

"The only shrewd thing I ever knew your Sir Nightcap to do," he said, "was to tell me you could
not read nor write. He spoke so glibly that I believed him. Had it not been so I should have
sent you to the town to help with the shore end of my affairs, and then you would have been
there still and I should have had no admiral to write my log and straighten my accounts."

Sometimes, in his quieter moods, when there was no provocation to send pistol-balls between
two sailors quietly conversing, or to perform some other demoniac trick, Blackbeard would talk
to Dickory and ask all manner of questions, some of which the young man answered, while some
he tried not to answer. Thus it was that the pirate found out a great deal more about Dickory's
life, hope, and sorrows than the young fellow imagined that he made known. He discovered that
Dickory was greatly interested in Bonnet's daughter, and wished above all other things in this
world to get to her and to be with her.

This was a little out of the common run of things among the brotherhood; it was their fashion
to forget, so far as they were able, the family ties which already belonged to them, and to
make no plans for any future ties of that sort which they might be able to make. Such a thing
amused the generally rampant Blackbeard, but if this Dickory boy whom they had on board really
did wish to marry some one, the idea came into the crafty mind of Blackbeard that he would
like to attend to that marrying himself. It pleased him to have a finger in every pie, and
now here was a pie in the fingering of which he might take a novel interest.

This renowned desperado, this bloody cutthroat, this merciless pirate possessed a home--a quiet
little English home on the Cornwall coast, where the cheerful woods and fields stretched down
almost in reach of the sullen sea. Here dwelt his wife, quiet Mistress Thatch, and here his
brawny daughter. Seldom a word came to this rural home from the father, burning and robbing,
sinking and slaying out upon the western seas. But from the stores of pelf which so often slipped
so easily into his great arms, and which so often slipped just as easily out of them, came
now and then something to help the brawn grow upon his daughter's bones and to ease the labours
of his wife.

Eliza Thatch bore no resemblance to a houri; her hair was red, her face was freckled; she had
enough teeth left to do good eating with when she had a chance, and her step shook the timbers
of her little home.

Her father had heard from her a little while ago by a letter she had had conveyed to Belize.
His parental feelings, notwithstanding he had told Bonnet he knew no such sentiments, were
stirred. When he had finished her letter he would have been well pleased to burn a vessel and
make a dozen passengers walk the plank as a memorial to his girl. But this not being convenient,
it had come to him that he would marry the wench to the gaily bedecked young fellow he had
captured, and it filled his reckless heart with a wild delight. He drew his cutlass, and with
a great oath he drove the heavy blade into the top of the table, and he swore by this mark
that his grand plan should be carried out.

He would sail over to England; this would be a happy chance, for his vessel was unladen and
ready for any adventure. He would drop anchor in the quiet cove he knew of; he would go ashore
by night; he would be at home again. To be at home again made him shout with profane laughter,
the little home he remembered would be so ridiculous to him now. He would see again his poor
little trembling wife--she must be gray by now--and he was sure that she would tremble more
than ever she did when she heard the great sea oaths which he was accustomed to pour forth
now. And his daughter, she must be a strapping wench by this time; he was sure she could stand
a slap on the back which would kill her mother.

Yes, there should be a wedding, a fine wedding, and good old rum should water the earth. And
he would detail a boat's crew of jolly good fellows from the Revenge to help make things uproarious.
This Charter boy and Eliza should have a house of their own, with plenty of money--he had more
funds in hand than ever in his life before--and his respectable son-in-law should go to London
and deposit his fortune in a bank. It would be royal fun to think of him and Eliza highly respectable
and with money in the bank. A quart of the best rum could scarcely have made Blackbeard more
hilarious than did this glorious notion. He danced among his crew; he singed beards; he whacked
with capstan bars; he pushed men down hatchways; he was in lordly spirits, and his crew expected
some great adventure, some startling piece of deviltry.

Of course he did not keep his great design from Dickory--it was too glorious, too transcendent.
He took his young admiral into his cabin and laid before him his dazzling future.

Dickory sat speechless, almost breathless. As he listened he could feel himself turn cold.
Had any one else been talking to him in this strain he would have shouted with laughter, but
people did not laugh at Blackbeard.

When the pirate had said all and was gazing triumphantly at poor Dickory, the young man gasped
a word in answer; he could not accept this awful fate without as much as a wave of the hand
in protest.

"But, sir," said he, "if--"

Blackbeard's face grew black; he bent his head and lowered upon the pale Dickory, then, with
a tremendous blow, he brought down his fist upon the table.

"If Eliza will not have you," he roared; "if that girl will not take you when I offer you to
her; if she or her mother as much as winks an eyelash in disobedience of my commands, I will
take them by the hair of their heads and I will throw them into the sea. If she will not have
you," he repeated, roaring as if he were shouting through a speaking trumpet in a storm, "if
I thought that, youngster, I would burn the house with both of them in it, and the rum I had
bought to make a jolly wedding should be poured on the timbers to make them blaze. Let no notions
like that enter your mind, my boy. If she disobeys me, I will cook her and you shall eat her.
Disobey me!" And he swore at such a rate that he panted for fresh air and mounted to the deck.

It was not a time for Dickory to make remarks indicating his disapproval of the proposed arrangement.

As the Revenge sailed on over sunny seas or under lowering clouds, Dickory was no stranger
to the binnacle, and the compass always told him that they were sailing eastward. He had once
asked Blackbeard where they now were by the chart, but that gracious gentleman of the midnight
beard had given him oaths for answers, and had told him that if the captain knew where the
ship was on any particular hour or minute nobody else on that ship need trouble his head about
it. But at last the course of the Revenge was changed a little, and she sailed northward. Then
Dickory spoke with one of the mildest of the mates upon the subject of their progress, and
the man made known to him that they were now about half-way through the Windward passage. Dickory
started back. He knew something of the geography of those seas.

"Why, then," he cried, "we have passed Jamaica!"

"Of course we have," said the man, and if it had not been for Dickory's uniform he would have
sworn at him.

CHAPTER XXII

BLADE TO BLADE

When the corvette Badger sailed from Jamaica she moved among the islands of the Caribbean Sea
as if she had been a modern vessel propelled by a steam-engine. That which represented a steam-engine
in this case was the fiery brain of Captain Christopher Vince of his Majesty's navy. More than
winds, more than currents, this brain made its power felt upon the course and progress of the
vessel.

Calling at every port where information might possibly be gained, hailing every sloop or ship
or fishing-smack which might have sighted the pirate ship Revenge, with a constant lookout
for a black flag, Captain Vince kept his engine steadily at work.

But it was not in pursuit of a ship that the swift keel of the Badger cut through the sea,
this way and that, now on a long course, now doubling back again, like a hound fancying he
has got the scent of a hare, then raging wildly when he finds the scent is false; it was in
pursuit of a woman that every sail was spread, that the lookout swept the sea, and that the
hot brain of the captain worked steadily and hard. This English man-of-war was on a cruise
to make Kate Bonnet the bride of its captain. The heart of this naval lover was very steady;
it was fixed in its purpose, nothing could turn it aside. Vince's plans were well-digested;
he knew what he wanted to do, he knew how he was going to do it.

In the first place he would capture the man Bonnet; all the details of the action were arranged
to that end; then, with Kate's father as his prisoner, he would be master of the situation.

There was nothing noble about this craftily elaborated design; but, then, there was nothing
noble about Captain Vince. He was a strong hater and a strong lover, and whether he hated or
loved, nothing, good or bad, must stand in his way. With the life or death, the misery or the
happiness of the father in his hands, he knew that he need but beckon to the daughter. She
might come slowly, but she would come. She was a grand woman, but she was a woman; she might
resist the warm plea of love, but she could not resist the cold commands of that cruel figure
of death who stood behind the lover.

Captain Bonnet was returning from his visit to the New England coast, picking up bits of profit
here and there as fortune befell him, when Captain Vince first heard that the Revenge had gone
northward. The news was circumstantial and straightforward, and was not to be doubted. Vince
raged upon his quarter-deck when he found out how he had been wasting time. Northward now was
pointed the bow of the Badger, and the vengeful Vince felt as if his prey was already in his
hands. If Bonnet had sailed up the Atlantic coast he was bound to sail down again. It might
be a long cruise, there might be impatient waitings at the mouths of coves and rivers where
the pirates were accustomed to take refuge or refit, but the light of the eyes of Kate Bonnet
were worth the longest pursuit or the most impatient waiting.

So, steadily sailed the corvette Badger up the long Atlantic coast, and she passed the capes
of the Delaware while Captain Bonnet was examining the queer pulpit in the little bay-side
town where his ship had stopped to take in water.

At the various ports of the northern coast where the Revenge had sailed back and forth outside,
the Badger boldly entered, and the tales she heard soon turned her back again to sail southward
down the long Atlantic coast. But the heart of Christopher Vince never failed. The vision of
Kate Bonnet as he had seen her, standing with glorious eyes denouncing him; as he should see
her when, with bowed head and proffered hand, she came to him; as all should see her when,
in her clear-cut beauty, she stood beside him in his ancestral home, never left him.

Off the port of Charles Town, South Carolina, the Badger lay and waited, and soon, from an
outgoing bark, the news came to Captain Vince that several weeks before the pirate Bonnet of
the Revenge had taken an English ship as she was entering port, and had then sailed southward.
Southward now sailed the Badger, and, as there was but little wind, Captain Vince swore with
an unremitting diligence.

It was a quiet morning and the Badger was nearing the straits of Florida when a sail was reported
almost due south.

Up came Captain Vince with his glass, and after a long, long look, and another, and another,
during which the two vessels came slowly nearer and nearer each other, the captain turned to
his first officer and said quietly: "She flies the skull and bones. She's the first of those
hellish pirates that we have yet met on this most unlucky cruise."

"If we could send her, with her crew on board, ten times to the bottom," said the other, "she
would not pay us what her vile fraternity has cost us. But these pirate craft know well the
difference between a Spanish galleon and a British man-of-war, and they will always give us
a wide berth."

"But this one will not," said the captain.

Then again he looked long and earnestly through his glass. "Send aft the three men who know
the Revenge," said he.

Presently the men came aft, and one by one they went aloft, and soon came the report, vouched
for by each of them:

"The sail ahead is the pirate Revenge."

Now all redness left the face of Captain Vince. He was as pale as if he had been afraid that
the pirate ship would capture him, but every man on his vessel knew that there was no fear
in the soul or the body of the captain of the Badger. Quickly came his orders, clear and sharp;
everything had been gone over before, but everything was gone over again. The corvette was
to bear down upon the pirate, her cannon--great guns for those days, and which could soon have
disabled, if they had not sunk, the smaller vessel--were muzzled and told to hold their peace.
The man-of-war was to bear down upon the pirate and to capture her by boarding. There was to
be no broadside, no timber-splitting cannon balls.

The wind was light and in favour of the corvette, and slowly the two vessels diminished the
few miles between them; but there was enough wind to show the royal colours on the Badger.

"He is a bold fellow, that pirate," said some of the naval men, "and he will wait and fight us."

"He will wait and fight us," said some of the others, "because he cannot get away; in this
wind he is at our mercy."

