A CONNECTICUT YANKEE IN KING ARTHUR'S COURT

                             by

                         MARK TWAIN
                     (Samuel L. Clemens)

                           Part 1. "Believe me, if I had found it, I would have said nothing and taken it
all in like the rest of you." Those were his last words, but his eyes were fixed, and were no longer proud
and persuasive.  It is not pretended that these laws and customs
existed in England in the sixth century; no, it is only pretended that inasmuch as they existed
in the English and other civilizations of far later times, it is safe to consider that it is
no libel upon the sixth century to suppose them to have been in practice in that day also.
One is quite justified in inferring that whatever one of these laws or customs was lacking
in that remote time, its place was competently filled by a worse one.

The question as to whether there is such a thing as divine right of kings is not settled in
this book.  It was found too difficult. That the executive head of a nation should be a person
of lofty character and extraordinary ability, was manifest and indisputable; that none but
the Deity could select that head unerringly, was also manifest and indisputable; that the Deity
ought to make that selection, then, was likewise manifest and indisputable; consequently, that
He does make it, as claimed, was an unavoidable deduction. I mean, until the author of this
book encountered the Pompadour, and Lady Castlemaine, and some other executive heads of that
kind; these were found so difficult to work into the scheme, that it was judged better to take
the other tack in this book (which must be issued this fall), and then go into training and
settle the question in another book.  It is, of course, a thing which ought to be settled,
and I am not going to have anything particular to do next winter anyway.

MARK TWAIN

HARTFORD, July 21, 1889

A CONNECTICUT YANKEE IN KING ARTHUR'S COURT

A WORD OF EXPLANATION

It was in Warwick Castle that I came across the curious stranger whom I am going to talk about.
He attracted me by three things: his candid simplicity, his marvelous familiarity with ancient
armor, and the restfulness of his company--for he did all the talking. We fell together, as
modest people will, in the tail of the herd that was being shown through, and he at once began
to say things which interested me.  As he talked along, softly, pleasantly, flowingly, he seemed
to drift away imperceptibly out of this world and time, and into some remote era and old forgotten
country; and so he gradually wove such a spell about me that I seemed to move among the specters
and shadows and dust and mold of a gray antiquity, holding speech with a relic of it!  Exactly
as I would speak of my nearest personal friends or enemies, or my most familiar neighbors,
he spoke of Sir Bedivere, Sir Bors de Ganis, Sir Launcelot of the Lake, Sir Galahad, and all
the other great names of the Table Round--and how old, old, unspeakably old and faded and dry
and musty and ancient he came to look as he went on!  Presently he turned to me and said, just
as one might speak of the weather, or any other common matter--

"You know about transmigration of souls; do you know about transposition of epochs--and bodies?"

I said I had not heard of it.  He was so little interested--just as when people speak of the
weather--that he did not notice whether I made him any answer or not. There was half a moment
of silence, immediately interrupted by the droning voice of the salaried cicerone:

"Ancient hauberk, date of the sixth century, time of King Arthur and the Round Table; said
to have belonged to the knight Sir Sagramor le Desirous; observe the round hole through the
chain-mail in the left breast; can't be accounted for; supposed to have been done with a bullet
since invention of firearms--perhaps maliciously by Cromwell's soldiers."

My acquaintance smiled--not a modern smile, but one that must have gone out of general use
many, many centuries ago--and muttered apparently to himself:

"Wit ye well, I saw it done." The manager was lifted, silent - the music did the talking impossible -
The arms of the hunger artist, as if inviting the sky, his work here on the straw to look at
again, this unfortunate martyr, who, however, the hunger artist was only in a very different sense,
took the hunger artists around the thin waist, passing through wanted to make an excess of
caution satisfaction with how frail he thing is here do have, and gave him - not without him
in secret to shake a little so that the Hunger artist with his legs and upper body uncontrolled
swaying back and forth - the meanwhile had become deathly pale ladies. Well tolerated all
the hunger artist, the head was on the chest, it was as if he was executed rolls and think
there inexplicable, and the body was hollowed out and the legs are pressed firmly in self-preservation
in the knees together, scraped the floor but, as if it was not the real, the real they sought
first, and the whole, however, very small weight of the body was on one of the ladies who for
help, with panting - as they had not presented this voluntary - First the neck stretched out
as possible, at least the face from contact with the hunger artist preserve, but because it
did not succeed and her more fortunate companion you do not to help came, but is content with shaking
the hand of the hunger artist, this small herzutragen bundle of bones, the right, under the
delighted laughter in the hall broke out in tears and had to be replaced by a long-provided services.
Then came the food, of the impresario of the hunger artist during a similar half-unconscious sleep
a little inspired, in a funny talk, the attention of the state of hunger artist to distract,
then a toast was drunk to the audience, which the Impresario was allegedly whispered the hunger
artist, the orchestra confirmed all through a big fanfare, we broke up and no one had the
right, with what is seen Unhappy to be, no one except the hunger artist, only he.

* * * * *

                   He lived with regular small breaks for many years, in apparent gloss
of the World honored for all that, but mostly in gloomy mood, which
was still troubled by the fact that no one knew how to take it seriously.

What you should comfort him, too?


When I came to again, I was sitting under an oak tree, on the grass, with a whole beautiful
and broad country landscape all to myself--nearly.  Not entirely; for there was a fellow on
a horse, looking down at me--a fellow fresh out of a picture-book.  He was in old-time iron
armor from head to heel, with a helmet on his head the shape of a nail-keg with slits in it;
and he had a shield, and a sword, and a prodigious spear; and his horse had armor on, too,
and a steel horn projecting from his forehead, and gorgeous red and green silk trappings that
hung down all around him like a bedquilt, nearly to the ground. The straw mixure was pushed to one side with long poles and the hungry
artist was able to be seen. "Still on your hunger strike?" asked the overseer. "When will you
give this up?" "Sorry," replied the artist in a whisper and only the overseer, with his ear close
to the grid, was able to hear him clearly.

Now what does this man do but fall back a couple of hundred yards and then come rushing at
me as hard as he could tear, with his nail-keg bent down nearly to his horse's neck and his
long spear pointed straight ahead.  I saw he meant business, so I was up the tree when he arrived.

