The surrender of Prague, which was quickly followed by that of most of the other towns, effected
a great and sudden change in Bohemia.  Many of the Protestant nobility, who had hitherto been
wandering about in misery, now returned to their native country; and Count Thurn, the famous
author of the Bohemian insurrection, enjoyed the triumph of returning as a conqueror to the
scene of his crime and his condemnation. Over the very bridge where the heads of his adherents,
exposed to view, held out a fearful picture of the fate which had threatened himself, he now
made his triumphal entry; and to remove these ghastly objects was his first care.  The exiles
again took possession of their properties, without thinking of recompensing for the purchase
money the present possessors, who had mostly taken to flight.  Even though they had received
a price for their estates, they seized on every thing which had once been their own; and many
had reason to rejoice at the economy of the late possessors.  The lands and cattle had greatly
improved in their hands; the apartments were now decorated with the most costly furniture;
the cellars, which had been left empty, were richly filled; the stables supplied; the magazines
stored with provisions.  But distrusting the constancy of that good fortune, which had so unexpectedly
smiled upon them, they hastened to get quit of these insecure possessions, and to convert their
immoveable into transferable property.

The presence of the Saxons inspired all the Protestants of the kingdom with courage; and, both
in the country and the capital, crowds flocked to the newly opened Protestant churches.  Many,
whom fear alone had retained in their adherence to Popery, now openly professed the new doctrine;
and many of the late converts to Roman Catholicism gladly renounced a compulsory persuasion,
to follow the earlier conviction of their conscience.  All the moderation of the new regency,
could not restrain the manifestation of that just displeasure, which this persecuted people
felt against their oppressors.  They made a fearful and cruel use of their newly recovered
rights; and, in many parts of the kingdom, their hatred of the religion which they had been
compelled to profess, could be satiated only by the blood of its adherents.

Meantime the succours which the imperial generals, Goetz and Tiefenbach, were conducting from
Silesia, had entered Bohemia, where they were joined by some of Tilly's regiments, from the
Upper Palatinate.  In order to disperse them before they should receive any further reinforcement,
Arnheim advanced with part of his army from Prague, and made a vigorous attack on their entrenchments
near Limburg, on the Elbe. After a severe action, not without great loss, he drove the enemy
from their fortified camp, and forced them, by his heavy fire, to recross the Elbe, and to
destroy the bridge which they had built over that river. Nevertheless, the Imperialists obtained
the advantage in several skirmishes, and the Croats pushed their incursions to the very gates
of Prague.  Brilliant and promising as the opening of the Bohemian campaign had been, the issue
by no means satisfied the expectations of Gustavus Adolphus.  Instead of vigorously following
up their advantages, by forcing a passage to the Swedish army through the conquered country,
and then, with it, attacking the imperial power in its centre, the Saxons weakened themselves
in a war of skirmishes, in which they were not always successful, while they lost the time
which should have been devoted to greater undertakings.  But the Elector's subsequent conduct
betrayed the motives which had prevented him from pushing his advantage over the Emperor, and
by consistent measures promoting the plans of the King of Sweden.

The Emperor had now lost the greater part of Bohemia, and the Saxons were advancing against
Austria, while the Swedish monarch was rapidly moving to the same point through Franconia,
Swabia, and Bavaria.  A long war had exhausted the strength of the Austrian monarchy, wasted
the country, and diminished its armies.  The renown of its victories was no more, as well as
the confidence inspired by constant success; its troops had lost the obedience and discipline
to which those of the Swedish monarch owed all their superiority in the field.  The confederates
of the Emperor were disarmed, or their fidelity shaken by the danger which threatened themselves.
Even Maximilian of Bavaria, Austria's most powerful ally, seemed disposed to yield to the seductive
proposition of neutrality; while his suspicious alliance with France had long been a subject
of apprehension to the Emperor.  The bishops of Wurtzburg and Bamberg, the Elector of Mentz,
and the Duke of Lorraine, were either expelled from their territories, or threatened with immediate
attack; Treves had placed itself under the protection of France.  The bravery of the Hollanders
gave full employment to the Spanish arms in the Netherlands; while Gustavus had driven them
from the Rhine.  Poland was still fettered by the truce which subsisted between that country
and Sweden.  The Hungarian frontier was threatened by the Transylvanian Prince, Ragotsky, a
successor of Bethlen Gabor, and the inheritor of his restless mind; while the Porte was making
great preparation to profit by the favourable conjuncture for aggression.  Most of the Protestant
states, encouraged by their protector's success, were openly and actively declaring against
the Emperor.  All the resources which had been obtained by the violent and oppressive extortions
of Tilly and Wallenstein were exhausted; all these depots, magazines, and rallying-points,
were now lost to the Emperor; and the war could no longer be carried on as before at the cost
of others.  To complete his embarrassment, a dangerous insurrection broke out in the territory
of the Ens, where the ill-timed religious zeal of the government had provoked the Protestants
to resistance; and thus fanaticism lit its torch within the empire, while a foreign enemy was
already on its frontier.  After so long a continuance of good fortune, such brilliant victories
and extensive conquests, such fruitless effusion of blood, the Emperor saw himself a second
time on the brink of that abyss, into which he was so near falling at the commencement of his
reign.  If Bavaria should embrace the neutrality; if Saxony should resist the tempting offers
he had held out; and France resolve to attack the Spanish power at the same time in the Netherlands,
in Italy and in Catalonia, the ruin of Austria would be complete; the allied powers would divide
its spoils, and the political system of Germany would undergo a total change.

The chain of these disasters began with the battle of Breitenfeld, the unfortunate issue of
which plainly revealed the long decided decline of the Austrian power, whose weakness had hitherto
been concealed under the dazzling glitter of a grand name.  The chief cause of the Swedes'
superiority in the field, was evidently to be ascribed to the unlimited power of their leader,
who concentrated in himself the whole strength of his party; and, unfettered in his enterprises
by any higher authority, was complete master of every favourable opportunity, could control
all his means to the accomplishment of his ends, and was responsible to none but himself. 
But since Wallenstein's dismissal, and Tilly's defeat, the very reverse of this course was
pursued by the Emperor and the League. The generals wanted authority over their troops, and
liberty of acting at their discretion; the soldiers were deficient in discipline and obedience;
the scattered corps in combined operation; the states in attachment to the cause; the leaders
in harmony among themselves, in quickness to resolve, and firmness to execute.  What gave the
Emperor's enemy so decided an advantage over him, was not so much their superior power, as
their manner of using it.  The League and the Emperor did not want means, but a mind capable
of directing them with energy and effect. Even had Count Tilly not lost his old renown, distrust
of Bavaria would not allow the Emperor to place the fate of Austria in the hands of one who
had never concealed his attachment to the Bavarian Elector.  The urgent want which Ferdinand
felt, was for a general possessed of sufficient experience to form and to command an army,
and willing at the same time to dedicate his services, with blind devotion, to the Austrian
monarchy.

This choice now occupied the attention of the Emperor's privy council, and divided the opinions
of its members.  In order to oppose one monarch to another, and by the presence of their sovereign
to animate the courage of the troops, Ferdinand, in the ardour of the moment, had offered himself
to be the leader of his army; but little trouble was required to overturn a resolution which
was the offspring of despair alone, and which yielded at once to calm reflection.  But the
situation which his dignity, and the duties of administration, prevented the Emperor from holding,
might be filled by his son, a youth of talents and bravery, and of whom the subjects of Austria
had already formed great expectations.  Called by his birth to the defence of a monarchy, of
whose crowns he wore two already, Ferdinand III., King of Hungary and Bohemia, united, with
the natural dignity of heir to the throne, the respect of the army, and the attachment of the
people, whose co-operation was indispensable to him in the conduct of the war.  None but the
beloved heir to the crown could venture to impose new burdens on a people already severely
oppressed; his personal presence with the army could alone suppress the pernicious jealousies
of the several leaders, and by the influence of his name, restore the neglected discipline
of the troops to its former rigour.  If so young a leader was devoid of the maturity of judgment,
prudence, and military experience which practice alone could impart, this deficiency might
be supplied by a judicious choice of counsellors and assistants, who, under the cover of his
name, might be vested with supreme authority.

But plausible as were the arguments with which a part of the ministry supported this plan,
it was met by difficulties not less serious, arising from the distrust, perhaps even the jealousy,
of the Emperor, and also from the desperate state of affairs.  How dangerous was it to entrust
the fate of the monarchy to a youth, who was himself in need of counsel and support!  How hazardous
to oppose to the greatest general of his age, a tyro, whose fitness for so important a post
had never yet been tested by experience; whose name, as yet unknown to fame, was far too powerless
to inspire a dispirited army with the assurance of future victory!  What a new burden on the
country, to support the state a royal leader was required to maintain, and which the prejudices
of the age considered as inseparable from his presence with the army! How serious a consideration
for the prince himself, to commence his political career, with an office which must make him
the scourge of his people, and the oppressor of the territories which he was hereafter to rule.

But not only was a general to be found for the army; an army must also be found for the general.
Since the compulsory resignation of Wallenstein, the Emperor had defended himself more by the
assistance of Bavaria and the League, than by his own armies; and it was this dependence on
equivocal allies, which he was endeavouring to escape, by the appointment of a general of his
own.  But what possibility was there of raising an army out of nothing, without the all-powerful
aid of gold, and the inspiriting name of a victorious commander; above all, an army which,
by its discipline, warlike spirit, and activity, should be fit to cope with the experienced
troops of the northern conqueror? In all Europe, there was but one man equal to this, and that
one had been mortally affronted.

The moment had at last arrived, when more than ordinary satisfaction was to be done to the
wounded pride of the Duke of Friedland.  Fate itself had been his avenger, and an unbroken
chain of disasters, which had assailed Austria from the day of his dismissal, had wrung from
the Emperor the humiliating confession, that with this general he had lost his right arm. 
Every defeat of his troops opened afresh this wound; every town which he lost, revived in the
mind of the deceived monarch the memory of his own weakness and ingratitude.  It would have
been well for him, if, in the offended general, he had only lost a leader of his troops, and
a defender of his dominions; but he was destined to find in him an enemy, and the most dangerous
of all, since he was least armed against the stroke of treason.

Removed from the theatre of war, and condemned to irksome inaction, while his rivals gathered
laurels on the field of glory, the haughty duke had beheld these changes of fortune with affected
composure, and concealed, under a glittering and theatrical pomp, the dark designs of his restless
genius.  Torn by burning passions within, while all without bespoke calmness and indifference,
he brooded over projects of ambition and revenge, and slowly, but surely, advanced towards
his end.  All that he owed to the Emperor was effaced from his mind; what he himself had done
for the Emperor was imprinted in burning characters on his memory. To his insatiable thirst
for power, the Emperor's ingratitude was welcome, as it seemed to tear in pieces the record
of past favours, to absolve him from every obligation towards his former benefactor.  In the
disguise of a righteous retaliation, the projects dictated by his ambition now appeared to
him just and pure.  In proportion as the external circle of his operations was narrowed, the
world of hope expanded before him, and his dreamy imagination revelled in boundless projects,
which, in any mind but such as his, madness alone could have given birth to.  His services
had raised him to the proudest height which it was possible for a man, by his own efforts,
to attain.  Fortune had denied him nothing which the subject and the citizen could lawfully
enjoy.  Till the moment of his dismissal, his demands had met with no refusal, his ambition
had met with no check; but the blow which, at the diet of Ratisbon, humbled him, showed him
the difference between ORIGINAL and DEPUTED power, the distance between the subject and his
sovereign.  Roused from the intoxication of his own greatness by this sudden reverse of fortune,
he compared the authority which he had possessed, with that which had deprived him of it; and
his ambition marked the steps which it had yet to surmount upon the ladder of fortune.  From
the moment he had so bitterly experienced the weight of sovereign power, his efforts were directed
to attain it for himself; the wrong which he himself had suffered made him a robber.  Had he
not been outraged by injustice, he might have obediently moved in his orbit round the majesty
of the throne, satisfied with the glory of being the brightest of its satellites.  It was only
when violently forced from its sphere, that his wandering star threw in disorder the system
to which it belonged, and came in destructive collision with its sun.

Gustavus Adolphus had overrun the north of Germany; one place after another was lost; and at
Leipzig, the flower of the Austrian army had fallen.  The intelligence of this defeat soon
reached the ears of Wallenstein, who, in the retired obscurity of a private station in Prague,
contemplated from a calm distance the tumult of war.  The news, which filled the breasts of
the Roman Catholics with dismay, announced to him the return of greatness and good fortune.
For him was Gustavus Adolphus labouring.  Scarce had the king begun to gain reputation by his
exploits, when Wallenstein lost not a moment to court his friendship, and to make common cause
with this successful enemy of Austria.  The banished Count Thurn, who had long entered the
service of Sweden, undertook to convey Wallenstein's congratulations to the king, and to invite
him to a close alliance with the duke.  Wallenstein required 15,000 men from the king; and
with these, and the troops he himself engaged to raise, he undertook to conquer Bohemia and
Moravia, to surprise Vienna, and drive his master, the Emperor, before him into Italy.  Welcome
as was this unexpected proposition, its extravagant promises were naturally calculated to excite
suspicion.  Gustavus Adolphus was too good a judge of merit to reject with coldness the offers
of one who might be so important a friend.  But when Wallenstein, encouraged by the favourable
reception of his first message, renewed it after the battle of Breitenfeld, and pressed for
a decisive answer, the prudent monarch hesitated to trust his reputation to the chimerical
projects of so daring an adventurer, and to commit so large a force to the honesty of a man
who felt no shame in openly avowing himself a traitor.  He excused himself, therefore, on the
plea of the weakness of his army which, if diminished by so large a detachment, would certainly
suffer in its march through the empire; and thus, perhaps, by excess of caution, lost an opportunity
of putting an immediate end to the war.  He afterwards endeavoured to renew the negociation;
but the favourable moment was past, and Wallenstein's offended pride never forgave the first
neglect.

