My arrival at Albany as State Senator.  My unfitness.  Efforts to become acquainted with State
questions.  New acquaintances.  Governor Horatio Seymour, Charles James Folger, Ezra Cornell,
and others on the Republican side; Henry C. Murphy and Thomas C. Fields on the Democratic side.
Daniel Manning.  Position assigned me on committees.  My maiden speech.  Relations with Governor
Seymour.  My chairmanship of the Committee on Education.  The Morrill Act of 1862.  Mr. Cornell
and myself at loggerheads Codification of the Educational Laws.  State Normal School Bill.
Special Committee on the New York Health Department.  Revelations made to the Committee.  The
Ward's Island matter.  Last great effort of the State in behalf of the Union.  The Bounty Bill.
Opposition of Horace Greeley to it.  Embarrassment caused by him at that period.  Senator Allaben's
speech against the Bounty Bill.  His reference to French Assignats; my answer; results; later
development of this speech into a political pamphlet on ``Paper Money Inflation in France.''
Baltimore Convention of 1864; its curious characteristics; impression made upon me by it. 
Breckinridge, Curtis, and Raymond.  Renomination of Lincoln; my meeting him at the White House.
Sundry peculiarities then revealed by him.  His election.

CHAPTER VII.  SENATORSHIP AT ALBANY--1865-1867

My second year in the State Senate.  Struggle for the Charter of Cornell University.  News
of Lee's surrender.  Assassination of Lincoln.  Service over his remains at the Capitol in
Albany.  My address.  Question of my renomination.  Elements against me; the Tammany influence;
sundry priests in New York, and clergymen throughout the State.  Senatorial convention; David
J. Mitchell; my renomination and election.  My third year of service, 1866.  Speech on the
Health Department in New York; monstrous iniquities in that Department; success in replacing
it with a better system. My Phi Beta Kappa address at Yale; its purpose.  My election to a
Professorship at Yale; reasons for declining it.  State Senate sits as Court to try a judge;
his offense; pathetic complications; his removal from office.  Arrival of President Johnson,
Secretary Seward, General Grant, and Admiral Farragut in Albany; their reception by the Governor
and Senate; impressions made on me thereby; part taken by Governor Fenton and Secretary Seward;
Judge Folger's remark to me. Two steps he made inside the room, instantly halt. His glance forever
comprehended the little company, and just for a moment the old, resigned
luminosity shot into my eye.

But it was only for a moment.

"my dear Isabel, i am very cold to see you home again."

The greeting which the financier would have extended to his impulsive guests was lost then in the same rush
which landed Mrs. Wilkinson in her dad's arms. Any regret which may have lingered was glad Governors in
the daze of this impact; and it was a banished adopter who emerged from
this embracing to resume my corner in the reunited world.

It
remained for his son-in-law to pronounce the valediction over the
vanishing fragments of the family breach.  Difficulties between Judge Folger and myself; question
as to testimony in criminal cases; Judge Folger's view of it; his vexation at my obtaining
a majority against him.  Calling of the Constitutional Convention, Judge Folger's candidacy
for its Presidency; curious reason for Horace Greeley's opposition to him.  Another cause of
separation between Judge Folger and myself.  Defeat of the Sodus Canal Bill. Constitutional
Convention eminent men in it; Greeley's position in it; his agency in bringing the Convention
into disrepute; his later regret at his success; the new Constitution voted down.  Visit to
Agassiz at Nahant.  A day with Longfellow.  His remark regarding Mr. Greeley.  Meeting with
Judge Rockwood Hoar at Harvard.  Boylston prize competition; the successful contestant; Judge
Hoar's remark regarding one of the speakers.  My part in sundry political meetings. Visit to
Senator Conkling.  Rebuff at one of my meetings; its effect upon me.

CHAPTER IX.  GENERAL GRANT AND SANTO DOMINGO--1868-1871

Distraction from politics by Cornell University work during two or three years following my
senatorial term.  Visits to scientific and technical schools in Europe.  The second political
campaign of General Grant.  My visit to Auburn; Mr. Seward's speech; its unfortunate characteristics;
Mr. Cornell's remark on my proposal to call Mr. Seward as a commencement orator.  Great services
of Seward.  State Judiciary Convention of 1870; my part in it; nomination of Judge Andrews
and Judge Folger; my part in the latter; its effect on my relations with Folger.  Closer acquaintance
with General Grant. Visit to Dr. Henry Field at Stockbridge; Burton Harrison's account of the
collapse of the Confederacy and the flight of Jefferson Davis.  Story told me by William Preston
Johnston throwing light on the Confederacy in its last hours.  Delegacy to the State Republican
Convention of 1870.  Am named as Commissioner to Santo Domingo.  First meeting with Senator
Charles Sumner.  My acquaintance with Senator McDougal.  His strange characteristics.  His
famous plea for drunkenness.  My absence in the West Indies.

CHAPTER X.  THE GREELEY CAMPAIGN--1872

First meeting with John Hay.  Speech of Horace Greeley on his return from the South; his discussion
of national affairs; his manner and surroundings; last hours and death of Samuel J. May.  The
Prudence Crandall portrait.  Addresses at the Yale alumni dinner.  Dinner with Longfellow at
Craigie House.  The State Convention of 1871; my chairmanship and presidency of it.  My speech;
appointment of committees; anti-administration demonstration; a stormy session; retirement
of the anti-administration forces; attacks in consequence; rally of old friends to my support.
Examples of the futility of such attacks; Senator Carpenter, Governor Seward, Senator Conklin.
My efforts to interest Conkling in a reform of the civil service. Republican National Convention
at Philadelphia in 1872; ability of sundry colored delegates; nomination of Grant and Wilson.
Mr. Greeley's death.  Characteristics of General Grant as President.  Reflections on the campaign.
Questions asked me by a leading London journalist regarding the election.  My first meeting
with Samuel J. Tilden; low ebb of his fortunes at that period.  The culmination of Tweed. 
Thomas Nast.  Meeting of the Electoral College at Albany; the ``Winged Victory'' and General
Grant's credentials.  My first experience of ``Reconstruction'' in the South; visit to the
State Capitol of South Carolina; rulings of the colored Speaker of the House, fulfilment of
Thomas Jefferson's inspired prophecy.

CHAPTER XI.  GRANT, HAYES, AND GARFIELD--1871-1881

Sundry visits to Washington during General Grant's presidency.  Impression made by President
Grant; visit to him in company with Agassiz; characteristics shown by him at Long Branch; his
dealing with one newspaper correspondent and story regarding another.  His visit to me at Cornell;
his remark regarding the annexation of Santo Domingo, far-sighted reason assigned for it; his
feeling regarding a third presidential term.  My journey with him upon the Rhine.  Walks and
talks with him in Paris.  Persons met at Senator Conkling's.  Story told by Senator Carpenter.
The ``Greenback Craze''; its spirit; its strength.  Wretched character of the old banking system.
Ability and force of Mr. Conkling's speech at Ithaca. Its effect.  My previous relations with
Garfield.  Character and effect of his speech at Ithaca; his final address to the students
of the University.  Our midnight conversation.  President Hayes; impressions regarding him;
attacks upon him; favorable judgment upon him by observant foreigners, excellent impression
made by him upon me at this time and at a later period.  The assassination of General Garfield.
Difficulties which thickened about him toward the end of his career.  Characteristics of President
Arthur.  Ground taken in my public address at Ithaca at the service in commemoration of Garfield.

CHAPTER XII.  ARTHUR, CLEVELAND, AND BLAINE--1881-1884

President Arthur; course before his Presidency; qualities revealed afterward; curious circumstances
of his nomination.  Reform of the Civil Service.  My article in the ``North American Review.''
Renewal of my acquaintance with Mr. Evarts; his witty stories.  My efforts to interest Senator
Platt in civil-service reform; his slow progress in this respect.  Wayne MacVeagh; Judge Biddle's
remark at his table on American feeling regarding capital punishment.  Great defeat of the
Republican party in 1882.  Judge Folger's unfortunate campaign.  Election of Mr. Cleveland.
My address on ``The New Germany'' at New York.  Meeting with General McDowell, the injustice
of popular judgment upon him.  Revelation of Tammany frauds.  Grover Cleveland, his early life;
his visit to the University; impression made upon me by him.  Senator Morrill's visit; tribute
paid him by the University authorities.  My address at Yale on ``The Message of the Nineteenth
Century to the Twentieth.''  Addresses by Carl Schurz and myself at the funeral of Edward Lasker.
Election as a delegate at large to the National Republican Convention at Chicago, 1884.  Difficulties
regarding Mr. Blaine; vain efforts to nominate another candidate; George William Curtis and
his characteristics; tyranny over the Convention by the gallery mob; nomination of Blaine and
Logan.  Nomination of Mr. Cleveland by the Democrats.  Tyranny by the Chicago mob at that convention
also.  Open letter to Theodore Roosevelt in favor of Mr. Blaine.  Private letter to Mr. Blaine
in favor of a reform of the Civil Service.  His acceptance of its suggestions.  Wretched character
of the campaign.  Presidency of the Republican mass meeting at Syracuse; experience with a
Kentucky orator.  Election of Mr. Cleveland.

CHAPTER XIII.  HENDRICKS, JOHN SHERMAN, BANCROFT, AND OTHERS--1884-1891

Renewal of my acquaintance with Mr. Cleveland at Washington.  Meeting with Mr. Blaine; his
fascinating qualities; his self-control.  William Walter Phelps; his arguments regarding the
treatment of Congressional speakers by the press.  Senator Randall Gibson; meeting at his house
with Vice-President Hendricks; evident disappointment of the Vice-President; his view of civil-service
reform; defense of it by Senator Butler of South Carolina; reminiscences of odd senators by
Senator Jones of Florida; Gibson's opinion of John Sherman.  President Cleveland's mode of
treating office-beggars and the like; Senator Sawyer's story; Secretary Fairchild's remark;
Senators Sherman and Vance.  Secretary Bayard's criticism of applicants for office.  Senator
Butler's remark on secession.  Renewal of my acquaintance with George Bancroft.  Goldwin Smith
in Washington; his favorable opinion of American crowds.  Chief Justice Waite.  General Sheridan;
his account of the battle of Gravelotte; discussion between Sheridan and Goldwin Smith regarding
sundry points in military history.  General Schenck; his reminiscences of Corwin Everett, and
others.  Resignation of my presidency at Cornell, 1885.  President Cleveland's tender of an
Interstate Railway commissionership, my declination.  Departure for Europe.  Am tendered nomination
for Congress; my discussion of the matter in London with President Porter of Yale and others;
declination.  Visit to Washington under the administration of General Harrison, January, 1891;
presentation of proposals to him regarding civil-service reform; his speech in reply.

CHAPTER XIV.  MCKINLEY AND ROOSEVELT--1891-1904

Candidacy for the governorship of New York; Mr. Platt's relation to it; my reluctance and opposition;
decision of the Rochester Convention in favor of Mr. Fassett; natural reasons for this.  Lectures
at Stanford University.  Visit to Mexico and California with Mr. Andrew Carnegie and his party.
President Harrison tenders me the position of minister to Russia; my retention in office by
Mr. Cleveland.  My stay in Italy 1894-1895.  President Cleveland appoints me upon the Venezuelan
Boundary Commission, December, 1895.  Presidential campaign of 1896. & c. he could have disposed
of Universities in any time-- why then it might have been something! Would Louis xviii., for instance,
that possible and instead-to-be-lamented monarch? But to ever for three days! if the be not
madness--! Fast, would any man in his addresses have done this? Had it been the reverse indeed--
had Charles, now of practising starvation, adopted at the expedient, and endeavoured to ascertain
this greatest wise quantity of meat, fruit, bread, wine, vegetables,
sec.  Am appointed by President McKinley ambassador to Germany; question of
my asking sanction of Mr. Platt; how settled.  Renomination of McKinley with Mr. Roosevelt
as Vice-President.  I revisit America; day with Mr. Roosevelt, visits to Washington; my impressions
of President McKinley; his conversation; his coolness; tributes from his Cabinet; Secretary
Hay's testimony, Mr. McKinley's refusal to make speeches during his second campaign; his reasons;
his re<e:>lection; how received in Europe.  His assassination; receipt of the news in Germany
and Great Britain.  My second visit to America; sadness, mournful reflections at White House;
conversations with President Roosevelt; message given me by him for the Emperor; its playful
ending.  The two rulers compared.

PART III--AS UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR CHAPTER XV.  LIFE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN--1857-1864

Early ideals.  Gradual changes in these.  Attractions of journalism then and now.  New views
of life opened to me at Paris and Berlin.  Dreams of aiding the beginnings of a better system
of university education in the United States.  Shortcomings of American instruction, especially
regarding history, political science, and literature, at that period.  My article on ``German
Instruction in General History'' in ``The New Englander.''  Influence of Stanley's ``Life of
Arnold.''  Turning point in my life at the Yale Commencement of 1856; Dr. Wayland's speech.
Election to the professorship of history and English literature at the University of Michigan;
my first work in it; sundry efforts toward reforms, text-books, social relations with students;
use of the Abb<e'> Bautain's book.  My courses of lectures; President Tappan's advice on extemporaneous
speaking; publication of my syllabus; ensuing relations with Charles Sumner.  Growth and use
of my private historical library.  Character of my students.  Necessity for hard work.  Student
discussions.

CHAPTER XVI.  UNIVERSITY LIFE IN THE WEST-- 1857-1864

