GEORGE LEATRIM;

OR,

THE MOTHER'S TEST

BY

SUSANNA MOODIE

CHAPTER I.

'One of the most terrible instances of dishonesty I ever knew,' said a lady friend to me, 'happened
in my own family, or, I should say, in one of its relative branches. You were staying last
summer at Westcliff; did you hear Dr. Leatrim preach?'

'Yes; my friends resided about a mile from the parsonage, and were constant in their attendance
at his church. The Doctor was one of the principal attractions of the place--one of the most
eloquent men I ever heard in the pulpit.'

'Did you ever meet him in company?'

'Never. I was told that he seldom went into society, and lived quite a solitary life; that
some great domestic calamity had weaned him entirely from the world; that his visits were confined
to the poor of his parish, or to those who stood in need of his spiritual advice; that since
the death of his wife and only son, he had never been seen with a smile upon his face. To tell
you the truth, I was surprised to hear sermons so full of heavenly benevolence and love breathed
from the lips of such an austere and melancholy-looking man.'

'Ah, my poor uncle!' sighed my friend; 'he has had sorrows and trials enough to sour his temper
and break his heart. He was not always the gentle, earnest Christian you now see him, but a
severe, uncompromising theologian of the old school, and looked upon all other sects who opposed
his particular dogmas as enemies to the true faith. A strict disciplinarian, he suffered nothing
to interfere with his religious duties, and exercised a despotic sway in the church and in
his family. He married, early in life, my father's only sister, and made her an excellent husband;
and if a certain degree of fear mingled with her love, it originated in the deep reverence
she felt for his character.

'He was forty years of age when the Earl of B----, who was a near relation, conferred upon
him the living of Westcliff. The last incumbent had been a kind, easy-going old man, who loved
his rubber of whist and a social chat with his neighbours over a glass of punch, and left them
to take care of their souls in the best manner they could, considering that he well earned
his 700 pounds per annum by preaching a dull, plethoric sermon once a week, christening all
the infants, marrying the adults, and burying the dead. "Oh, God," she cried, as
she stroked her face on the apron.

"Well, lass," Harm said as he nudged her on the shoulder in an effort to calm her down, "It's all
right to make a transition but, you are right, those who have lost nothing should not stay
on."

He paid for the two pitchers of beer by giving the money to the her and then went to the stables.
It was still the same as before at the house. The seventh Rosknechte was even worse looking than
the others. Junky Jews who were of the sort that the best of them spit into their hands to
wash them were there.

The one Jew threw him his goods and then tried to get him to eat pork sausage.

Three of the others stood before a sow, one of them was almost twelve years old, he was supervising
a Taternmadchen pig while another one of the animals was swaying from the stench of the manure.
The final boy was twisting the neck from a chicken. "God's miracle,"
thought the peasant, "that's what you see in a disciplined economy!"

He sped past the drunken people there and went to the stables.

His dinner was there, it was a grand dish and he had went there with two knapsacks strapped to his
back. The harness was a halter that he had made from one end of a
rope.

He took it and led the horse from the stable.

Riding with a red beard that hung and pulled on his collar he got almost
to the court, which was where he was wanting to go with the horse.
There a farmer said to him, "That was always my Falbe."

"The man
with the red beard cried," Ferdl, Tonio, Pitter, Wladslaw and so on,
I am who brought this horse here. Is Corporal Tillman Anspack here?
Huh? Call him out! I want to see this man whose word is no longer
good. This comes from an honest soldier who fights for pure doctrine
and fights so precious farmers who come on foot and horseback can
continue on!"

So Harm (with his red beard) reached for the knife
he had hidden at his sides, but changed his mind before pulling the
knife, since he would be solo against a half dozen enemies. The corporal
also showed up then, a thin as a bean pole man who wore boots and
had a scar from one eye to his chin. Behind him were another dozen
riders who all looked the same. They looked like his old cousin Nick.
She never thwarted his wishes in word or deed, and was ever at his side to assist him in his
ministrations among the poor, in teaching the children, and reading to the sick and inquiring.
She had been the mother of several children, but only one, and that the youngest-born, survived
the three first years of infancy. It is this son, named after his father, George Leatrim, who
forms the subject of my present story, which, though a painful one in its general details,
is strictly true.

'If the good Doctor had an idol in the world, it was his son George. The lad possessed the
most amiable disposition, uniting to the talent and earnestness of the father, the gentle,
endearing qualities of his mother. He was handsome, frank, and graceful; the expression of
his face so truthful and unaffected, that it created an interest in his favour at first sight.
Religious without cant, and clever without pretence, it is no wonder that his father, who was
his sole instructor, reposed in the fine lad the utmost confidence, treating him more like
an equal than a son, over whom he held the authority of both pastor and parent.

'There was none of the nervous timidity that marked Mrs. Leatrim's intercourse with her husband
in the conduct of her son. His love for his stern father was without fear, it almost amounted
to worship; and the hope of deserving his esteem was the motive power that influenced his studies,
and gave a colouring to every act of his life.

'The father, on his part, regarded his son as superior being--one whom the Lord had called
from his birth to be His servant.

'There was another person in the house, whom, next to his wife and son, Doctor Leatrim held
in the greatest esteem and veneration, not only on account of his having saved him, when a
boy, from drowning, at the imminent peril of his own life, but from his having persuaded him,
when a youth, to abandon a career of reckless folly and become a Christian. Ralph Wilson was
an old and faithful servant, who had been born in his father's house, and had nursed the Doctor
when a little child upon his knees. When his master died, Ralph was confided to the care of
his son; and as he had never married, he had grown grey in the Doctor's service, and his love
for him and his family was the sole aim and object of his life.

'Everything about the parsonage was entrusted to Ralph's care, and he was consulted on all
business matters of importance. All the money transactions of the family went through his hands;
and, like most old servants, his sway over the household was despotic. The Doctor gave him
his own way in everything, for it saved him a great deal of trouble. His mind was too much
engrossed with his ministerial duties to attend to these minor concerns. Ralph was a better
business man, he said; he could manage such matters more skilfully and economically than he could.

'If Mrs. Leatrim came to consult him about any domestic arrangements, it was always put a stop
to. "Don't trouble me, Mary; go to Ralph, he can advise you what to do." Poor Mrs. Leatrim
did not like Ralph as well as her husband did, and would much rather have had the sanction
of the legitimate master of the house.

'By his fellow-servants the old grey-headed factotum was almost detested. They could receive
orders from the rector, and yield to him cheerful and hearty obedience; but to be under the
control of a stingy, canting old hypocrite like Ralph Wilson was hard to be borne. The Bible,
that was so often in his mouth, might have taught him 'that no man can serve two masters.'
This fact was fully illustrated in their case, for they loved the one and hated the other.
There was always trouble in the household--a perpetual changing of domestics, greatly to the
annoyance of Mrs. Leatrim; but the matter was one of small importance to the rector, provided
he was left in peace to pursue his studies.

'Amiable and gentle as George was, he could not force himself to feel any affection for Ralph
Wilson. He treated him with respect for his father's sake, more than from any personal regard,
though the old man was servile in his protestations of love and devotion. Some minds are surrounded
by a moral and intellectual atmosphere, into which other minds cannot enter without feeling
a certain degree of repulsion. Such an insensible but powerfully acknowledged antagonism existed
between the faithful old servant and his young master. They did not hate one another--that
would have been too strong a term--but Doctor Leatrim often remarked with pain that there was
no love lost between them, and often blamed George for the indifference he manifested towards
his humble friend.

'You remember the beautiful old church at Westcliff, surrounded by its venerable screen of
oaks and elms, and the pretty white parsonage on the other side of the road, facing the principal
entrance to the church? The house occupies an elevation some feet above the churchyard. The
front windows command a fine view of the sacred edifice, particularly of the carved porch within
the iron gates at the entrance, and the massive oak door through which you enter into the body
of the building. A person standing at one of these windows at sunset, and looking towards the
porch, can see everything there as distinctly as if he were in it. Recollect this circumstance,
for it is connected with my story.

'In the porch Dr. Leatrim had placed a box against the wall, on the right-hand side as you
went in, for receiving contributions for the poor. It was only unlocked twice a year, at Christmas
and Easter, and its contents distributed to the most needy among his parishioners. There were
many wealthy people in the neighbourhood, and the poor-box generally yielded a plentiful harvest
for the destitute.

'The key of the box was always kept in the rector's study, and occupied the same hook with
the key of the church. The windows of this room were directly opposite to the church. No person
had access to this apartment but Dr. Leatrim, his wife and son, and old Ralph. The latter kept
it in order, for fear the women folk should disarrange his master's papers. He performed all
the dusting and cleaning, and never was there a room kept more scrupulously neat. He had a
private desk for his own use under one of the windows, in which he kept all the accounts that
passed through his hands; and it was not an unusual sight to see the Doctor composing his startling,
soul-awakening sermons at the large table in the centre of the room, and the little shrewd-looking,
grey-haired house-steward dotting down figures quietly at the desk below the window. His presence
never disturbed his master, who often read to him portions of the discourse he was writing,
for his approval. Ralph's applause gave him confidence; he considered his judgment in spiritual
matters more correct than his own.

'On opening the poor-box at Christmas, the rector was surprised to find that an unusually small
sum had been deposited. He could not account for the falling off, but made up the deficiency
from his own purse, and thought no more about it.

'At Easter, the Earl and Countess of B---- always gave liberally, and their example was followed
by all the wealthy landholders in the parish. There was always a good sprinkling of silver
and gold to set against the weekly donations of coppers and small coin, to make glad the widows
and orphans of Westcliff, to comfort the lame, the halt, and the blind.

'The Sunday after Easter was the day Dr. Leatrim had always appointed for the distribution
of these alms to the poor. The box was opened the morning previous, and the different sums
allotted according to the necessities of the recipients; and, to avoid all confusion, the portion
of each individual was enclosed in a sealed packet, and addressed to the respective parties.
After the morning service was over, the Rector met his poor in the vestry, and George delivered
to each claimant the packet inscribed for him. This was always followed by a short address,
and an earnest prayer from Dr. Leatrim. But for now, Lisa, "and he grabbed it and gave her a kiss,
"are you my wife, and so far it's up to me, it will not repent you, that you have become it. "Then
the young woman had only cried so much that he quite frightened was, but when he made her hands
from her face, he saw that the sun was rain, and his Woman laughed and threw her arms around his
neck.

It was good that it had at the wedding of the Wulf farmers merely given a table trunk, because in
the morning, half the young men were retrieved from the Peerhobstberge; loose pile of Sweden,
settled in the neighborhood look and people lived worse than animals. Since then, their king
had fallen, they knew no more breeding, and Frauenschänden children and Flay, to them was nothing
more than a little fun. But one cluster, bounded by the fracture wanted to move, soon learned
that there also was Gnitten winter day. When she nags her laboriously through snow and mud
covered the leaden Gnitten began to bite, that the Blood was then. "Well," said Viekenludolf,
"who do not know what is the country custom, which runs often stupidly.

"

On Sunday, the three kings Peerhobstler again had sung: "And if the world is full of devils
I wish this "being in that what they got to the ears, was murder and arson. Once a week no
red glow in the sky after the sun had set, then missed the people
almost anything, and after a dead body on road board had looked no
more than before after a cat croaked.

'The Earl told him at once that he had given five sovereigns in gold, and that he believed
the Duke of A----, who was a guest at the castle, had done the same; that a maiden aunt of
the Earl's, who was very rich, had put in ten; and all the members of his household, not excluding
the servants, who were constant attendants upon Dr. Leatrim's ministry, had given liberally;
that the box must have been robbed, and that to a considerable amount. My uncle returned home
a miserable man. A great and heinous sin had been committed. To suspect any of the members
of his household was a sin almost as great. What was to be done?

CHAPTER II.

'Dr. Leatrim's was not a spirit to brook delay. As stern as Brutus, like Brutus he could be
as unflinching in the performance of his duty. He called Ralph into the study, and after carefully
closing the door, addressed him in a voice hoarse with emotion:

'"Ralph, the church has been entered, the poor's box opened, and money to the amount of twenty
pounds been abstracted. My dear old friend," he continued, grasping his hand, "can you throw
any light upon this dreadful transaction?"

'The old man was as much agitated as his master. A deadly pallor overspread his face, and tears
came into his eyes. "The church entered! money stolen to such a large amount! My dear sir,
can it be possible?"

'"Only too true. But the thief, Ralph; who can be the thief? It must be some one well acquainted
with the premises, who could gain access to the key, and must have known the secret of the
lock. It is this which distresses me--that fills my mind with the keenest anguish." He looked
hard at the old man--not a look of suspicion, but one of intense inquiry, as if he depended
upon his answer to solve his doubts.

'Ralph trembled visibly. His voice became a broken sob. "Oh, my dear, my honoured master, you
cannot surely suspect me, your old and faithful servant?"

'"I would as soon suspect myself!"

'The old man continued, in a deprecating tone: "You know, your reverence, that money is no
object to me. I have neither wife, nor child, and my wants are liberally supplied by you. I
shall have to leave you the money saved in your service, for the want of an heir; and I generally
give half my wages to the poor through that very box, being more anxious to lay up for myself
treasures in heaven than upon earth."

'"Yes, yes, I know all this, my good Ralph," cried the Doctor impatiently; "your character
is above suspicion. I want you to give me some clue by which the real culprit could be brought
to justice."

'The old man cast a hasty glance at his master, as if he could do so if he pleased, but remained
silent.

'The look did not escape Doctor Leatrim's keen eye. "Speak, Ralph! Speak out like a man. I
feel certain that you know something about it."

'"And suppose I do,"--he came a step nearer to his master, and spoke in low, mysterious tones,--"that
something had better remain unsaid. You are a rich man; twenty or thirty pounds are nothing
to you. You gave twice that sum last week to get Hall out of jail; replace the money, and depend
upon my word that the felony will never be repeated."

'"And let the culprit escape without the punishment due to his crime-- and such a crime! Would
that be just, old man?"

'"It would be merciful," returned Ralph, drily. "A knowledge of the truth would do no good;
it would only make your reverence unhappy."

'"I must not consult my own feelings on the subject," said the Rector, greatly excited. "No;
though the felon were my son, who is dearer to me than my own life, and I could effectually
conceal his guilt, he should pay the penalty due to his crime."

'The old man shuddered and drew back a few paces. "Your reverence has made a pretty shrewd
guess. It was Master George!"

'"George? my George?" The Doctor sank into his study chair. He grasped at the arms convulsively.
His broad chest heaved and panted, his breath came in hoarse gasps. He was too much stunned
to speak. Ralph poured out a glass of water, and held it to his white and rigid lips.

'"'Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy.' The Lord help and comfort you, my
dear master, under this heavy affliction. We are all liable to temptation. Try and forgive
your son."

'"My son! Never call him my son again. I disown him--cast him off for ever. George, George,
this will kill me! I loved and trusted you so much--would have given my life to save yours
any day--and you have disgraced my name and calling, and broken my heart.--But are you sure,
old man?" he cried, clutching Ralph by the shoulder; "sure that my George did this horrible thing?"

'"For God's sake, sir, moderate your anger. Master George is very young; he may never do the
like again."

'"That is no answer to my question," cried the wretched father, tightening his grasp upon the
old man's arm. "I do not ask you to palliate his guilt. It admits of no excuse. Did you see
him do it? Tell me that--tell me quickly. I am in no humour for trifling."

'"Ay, seeing is believing," said the old man, sullenly. "As your reverence knows the worst,
it is of no use hiding the details. I saw Master George take the money."

'The Doctor groaned in anguish of spirit.

'"How--when--where did you see him do it? May you not have been mistaken?"

'"Impossible, sir. I would not advance a thing of this nature without I had positive proof.
I repeat to you again, on my word of honour, on the faith of a Christian, that I saw him do
it. What more do you require?"

'"It is enough," sighed the miserable father, covering his face with his hands. "George, George!
my son, my only son; have I deserved this at your hands? The trial is too great for flesh and
blood to bear. O my God! my just and righteous God! Thou hast shattered my idol of clay to
pieces, and my heart lies broken and trampled in the dust. Ralph, tell the wretched boy to
come to me directly."

'The old man hesitated. "Not while you are in this excited state, my dear master. Wait a while,
until your passion calms down; it is apt to betray you into sin. I implore you to deal leniently
with the lad. Remember it is his first offence. He may repent, and you may save your son."

'"Yes; if I could believe that it was his first offence. The same thing happened at Christmas.
He has become hardened in successful villany. The crime is not against me alone; it is against
the Church, and must be punished accordingly. Don't raise your hands in that deprecating manner,
Ralph, or attempt to plead for him," and he stamped his foot impatiently; "I must and will
be obeyed. Why do you loiter, old man? Go for him directly."

'Just then a rap came to the door.

'Ralph opened it, for he knew the step, and the accused stood before them, smiling and serene,
unconscious of the thunder-clouds that lowered above his head. He advanced a few paces into
the room, then stood still. His eyes wandered from his father's death-pale face to the downcast
countenance of the old serving-man. Surprised and distressed, he wondered what it could mean.
His mother had been confined to her chamber for some days with a serious attack of lung disease.
The doctor had just seen her, and pronounced her out of danger; he came to bring the glad tidings
to his father. The first thought that struck him was, that anxiety about her had produced the
dreadful agitation that his father, with all his stoical philosophy, found it impossible to
restrain, and which was so painful for him to witness. He hurried to his side. "Don't be alarmed,
my dear father, mamma is better. She sent me to tell you so, and that she wishes to see you
for a few minutes."

'He met the stern severity of Dr. Leatrim's glance; it chilled him to the heart He drew back,
regarding him in wondering surprise.

'"What is the matter, my father? Something dreadful has happened. Are you ill?"

'"Yes, sir, I am ill--sick at heart--sick of a malady that will bring my grey hairs in sorrow
to the grave. My wound is incurable, and the hand of a wicked son has dealt the blow."

'"Father! what do you mean? I do not understand these terrible words;" and the boy raised the
calm, inquiring glance of his clear, candid eyes to the father's clouded brow and rigid face.
"In what manner can I have offended you?"

'"Miserable boy, if you had only offended me, I could bear it and forgive you; but you have
committed a crime against God--a crime so great, that the felon who will be hung next week
at N---- for murder is innocent in comparison."

'George gazed steadily into his father's face as he said slowly, and with blanched and quivering
lips, "What have I done?"

'"Robbed the poor! Stolen thirty pounds in gold from that box" (pointing to the poor's box
on the table before him); "and you dare to ask me what you have done, and, knowing your guilt,
to raise your hardened eyes to mine!"

'The hot blood rushed in a crimson tide into the face of the accused; he drew up his slight
figure to its full height, and looked a man in the strength of his indignation. "The guilty
alone are cowards," he said, softening the vehemence of his manner; "it is only truth that
dare look at justice without quailing. If I am guilty of the crime of which you accuse me,
father, I am no longer worthy to be your son. Who, then, is my accuser? Who charges me with
the guilt of a crime so base? Who dares to tell me to my face that I did this foul wrong?"

'"One who saw you do it."

'"The man does not live who saw me do it. The spirit does not live who read in my heart a thought
so vile. The God to whom the secrets of all hearts are open knows my innocence, knows that
I am belied. O father! dear, honoured father! do not look so sternly upon me. I have thought
at times that you could read my heart with that searching gaze. Oh, read it now! It is bared
for your inspection. I do not shrink from the investigation. Do not pronounce me guilty until
you have sifted the matter thoroughly. Innocence is stronger than guilt. I never took the money.
I know nothing about it, so help me God!"

'Dr. Leatrim's heart was touched. His eyes were full of tears. He made a motion to Ralph Wilson
to speak.

'"Master George," said the old man, coming close up to the agitated youth, and laying his hand
upon his shoulder. The lad shuddered, and shrank from his touch as if he had suddenly come
in contact with a viper. "How can you speak in that hardened manner to your father? Are not
you ashamed of what you have done? Will you add falsehood to theft?"

'"Peace, old man! This is no business of yours. I appeal to my father, not to you." Then, looking
sternly in the old man's face, he added in a bitter tone: "Perhaps you are the traitor who
has poisoned his mind against me. At that time the red glow became a bush and balls flew a preacher, but when
I heard a gunshot and a man screaming and when he saw that the other anchored on the coast, and rode
over the hill, and he returns , he heard a shot and the guy who was just yourself on short-time,
Gerd Mertens had been shot.

When they were naked heath, the preacher went on: "We thank the Lord for his goodness," he said, when
the plug. "Let us pray, 'Lord, Lord, my head How strong do you cover the time when the dispute
was covered again, said, "'wrote:" Whoever sheds man's blood, his blood was shed for us, not the
one who wants his brother out of the ambush is a life that is like a wolf, and his blood was infected
with killing him our hands are clean before the Lord ... " The next day Thedel searched, and Klaus
Mertens, Gerd Brehloh by Rennie.

The wolves were clean working environment, a handful of coins, but they had a holiday, and best Pistols.
I have to say, "I," said Wulf Thedel farmers that "the preacher, because it suits us. I thought,
that can only shoot paper, but what I do not believe everything the man before he has not eaten
for three types of salt with him. I say it enough: we need a preacher man "who would first
have to look back Who would have thought when he day behind the Mach Angel Busch sat and sang
loudly." Ever since I was still Puttfarken different because, as before, and when he offered himself
to go to a guard, and he did! often as the series about him was because
he needed not only at their request, and had a chapel built over the
house because it is sent and what was in it, all came to himsel"Now
I only lack of a soft woman," said Burvogt, "so you have the whole
series"

But Puttfarken eyes. And he said. 'S "So there's still time, Wulfsbur As he sat in his book, but at
night had to think about the Dreweshofe waitress. The next day, when he met with farmers and then
to the grave with him Vespertine, she began:" Burvogt, Yesterday, he told me that my house is
missing woman, and said it was still time. But now I want to say something to him in his house,
not a woman. He let me speak first to the end! I say this not because I think now you can forget
his late wife and set eyes on another, I know, but once that is because
children and then, because you do not know a girl there, is from
the first day, and where he saw his children and his second is the
best father you can imagine.

"The farmer shook his head as the preacher spoke, but when the woman was transfigured told him to
keep his promise Wiescher, he simply said:" The child is too young soft good for me. Look here!
And he took off his hat, "Halbig gray I was, because I have all kinds aufhucken these years, and
the best we had to offer, half of what is under the ashes driven and half to the church on the
lawn.
 I returned to the study and replaced the large iron key.
Ralph was no longer there. This is the truth--the whole truth; so help me God!"

'The lad, before so calm, now flung himself in an agony of tears at his father's feet, and
clasping his knees, cried out in piteous tones, "Father, do you believe me?"

'The Doctor pushed him aside. "The evidence is too strong against you. I wish I could."

'"Father, did I ever deceive you?"

'"Never, that I am conscious of, until now."

'"Did you ever detect me in an act of dishonesty?"

'"Never."

'"Then how can you condemn me? You will say, upon the evidence of this honest man. Am I not
as worthy of belief as Ralph Wilson?"

'"His character is above suspicion."

'"So ought mine to be," said the lad proudly.

'"Ralph is incapable of falsehood. How dare you to insinuate that he could be capable of such
a crime? What inducement could that pious, grey-headed old man have for slandering the son
of his friend and benefactor? I am so certain of his fidelity, that I know he would rather
bear the brand of shame than bring dishonour upon me and mine."

'"It is strange," mused George, unconsciously uttering his thoughts aloud, and half repenting
the harsh language he had used to the old servant. "If he has not plotted this accusation against
me to hide his own guilt, he has made a grievous mistake."

'"It is no mistake!" cried Ralph indignantly. "I saw you take the money. You can't persuade
me out of my senses. I have borne an honest character all my life. It is not a beardless boy
that can rob me of it in my old age."

'"It may be possible, Ralph, that you were mistaken," said Dr. Leatrim, after a long and painful
silence, in which he had been summing up the evidence on both sides. "The boy's account of
himself is very clear. George, I will give you one trial more. If I find that crown piece in
the box, I will believe that Ralph is in error, that some villain unknown to us has been the
robber."

'"Most joyfully, dear father!" exclaimed George, springing from his knees beside the Rector,
and bringing him the box. "God will attest my innocence, and prove to you that I have spoken
the truth."

'A gleam of hope shot through the thick gloom that had gathered round Dr. Leatrim. With a steady
hand he unlocked the box. The crown piece was not there!

'"Liar!" he cried, in a tone of mingled contempt and horror. "What have you to say for yourself
now?"

'George uttered a sharp and bitter cry of disappointment. He pressed his hands tightly over
his breast, as he murmured in a hollow, broken voice, "Nothing."

'"You plead guilty?"

'"I should prove myself a liar, sir, if I did."

'"Liar and thief! Base hypocrite! Kneel down and ask pardon of that worthy man for the injurious
language you have used towards him."

'"Never!" George Leatrim fixed his brow like iron. "I will die first."

'"You deserve death, sir," cried his father, rising in great anger; "and I would inflict upon
you the utmost penalty of the law were it not for your poor mother."

'"Oh, my mother!" said George, in a low, heart-broken voice; "this disgrace will kill her."

'Dr. Leatrim was too much overcome by passion to hear that despairing moan, his pride too deeply
wounded to pity and forgive; and he continued, with the utmost severity of look and manner:
"Ay, wretched boy, you should have thought of that before; but not even to spare her feelings
can I neglect my duty. I cannot demean myself by touching a thing so vile. Ralph, whom you
have calumniated, shall inflict upon you a punishment suited to the baseness of your crime.
Wilson, you will find a light cane in that corner; bring it here."

'"You do not mean to chastise me like a dog, father?"

'"Never address me by that title again, sir, until deep repentance and a long-continued course
of well-doing restore you once more to my love and favour--though never, never can you again
occupy the place you once held in my heart. You have acted like a felon, and shall receive
a felon's reward."

'"Beware what you do, sir," cried George, frowning in his turn. "Get your menial to punish
me in this degrading manner, and you will repent it to the last day of your life."

'"Oh, monstrous depravity! Do you dare to threaten me? Take off your jacket, sir.--Ralph, give
him twenty lashes, and don't spare the whip."

'The man drew back. "I cannot strike my master's son."

'"Do as I bid you."

'The boy stood firm as a rock, his lips compressed, his brow rigid, and his face livid in its
ghastly pallor. Turning from his stern parent to the old man, he said, with an air of calm
indifference:

'"I am ready; perform your task. I am not the first victim who has suffered wrongfully. My
Saviour endured a harder scourge; I will learn patience from His cross."

'"What barefaced wickedness!" groaned the Doctor. "God grant him repentance, and save his miserable
soul."

'"Amen," said Ralph, as he turned to his abhorrent task with an energy equal to the guilt of
the criminal.

'George bore the severe castigation without a murmur. When it was over, Doctor Leatrim told
him to go to his own room, and pray to God to soften his hard and impenitent heart.

'As the boy passed his father on his way out, he gave him a look full of love and compassion,
and said, in a firm voice:

'"Sir, I pity and forgive you. It also had a lot
of strange characters given. It had grown roses, roses from which again came the bread was bleeding
on the coupling paths were shooting stars, three days in a row in July came from vast quantities
Schillebolden flown over the heath and well behind many Butter birds, there were more abortions
in cattle, than ever before, the mice concocted immoderately, Plague and dying birds were seen
to be in the sky were fiery men and a star looked like a sword fell down.

It said some people are war, famine, fire and plague on. It was not long enough As for a big death,
especially in the cities, where people sat close to each other and met all sorts of strange
people. To the Lord again to ask for good weather, attracted whole bunch of half naked men and
women with chains around their necks behind a cross ago, howled and screamed as unwise, fought
with knitting the back, that the blood only and splashed and sang to the God of mercy.

As Harm Wulf, Anerbe of Wulfshof, peat went to the city, he was such a course met and become
very wrong, because he had young horses to the wagon, and they wanted yelled at by force from
the road, when the people were crazy.

Afterwards he had to laugh about it, had looked too silly, as all at once threw his arms in the
air and loss lengths: "Hui hold it on your hands, so that God dying
turn, hui stretches out your arms, that God is EUR 'mercy!

"

"What a stupid way of term song," he thought, and whistled the Brummelbeerlied.
The Mansfeld

When he left the next morning by the heath, he was
laughing to himself, but no more the Geissler, because he had long
forgotten.

'He remembered how his father had spurned him from his feet, had called him a thief and a liar,
and witnessed unmoved the infliction of a cruel punishment, administered by the hand of the
menial who had accused him of the crime; and had ordered him from his presence without one
word of pity or affection.

'These after-thoughts were terrible. George felt that he had not deserved this severity, and
the tears which pride had restrained while under the weight of Ralph Wilson's unsparing hand
now burst forth in a torrent, and he wept until the lamp of life flickered to extinction in
his panting breast.

'The mother whom he wished to save from the knowledge of his degradation awoke suddenly from
a short and disturbed sleep. She heard the sobs and moans in the adjoining room, and recognised
the voice of her son. The next moment saw her seated upon his bed, her arms around the weeping
boy. All sense of her own sickness, of her weak state, was gone. She was only conscious of
his intense mental agony.

'He placed his aching head upon her faithful breast, he wound his trembling arms around her
slender neck, and poured into her sympathizing ear the terrible tale of his wrongs,--how he
had been falsely accused of the commission of a heinous crime, his protestations of innocence
disregarded, and had been sentenced by his father to receive a punishment more galling to him
than death; that he had been tempted to rebel against his father's authority, and curse the
hand that smote him--to hate where he had loved with such fond idolatry.

'The good mother listened attentively, and weighed every circumstance. The frankness of his
unreserved confession convinced her of its truth. When all the sad tale was told, she took
him in her pitying arms, and told him that, though all the world should believe him guilty,
she felt that he was innocent from her very soul.

'"God bless you, dearest, best mother," sobbed the poor boy, covering her hand with kisses.
"I knew you would not condemn me. I never have, nor ever will give you cause to be ashamed
of me. But my father--it seems unnatural, monstrous that he should believe me guilty at once.
I shall never get over it. It crushes my heart; it presses out my life. If I could only convince
him of my innocence I could die in peace."

'"Don't talk of dying, George. Leave your cause to God. He can bring to light the hidden things
of darkness, and make the black cloud that now envelopes you as clear as the noonday. Let me
go to your father, George; I think I can convince him of your innocence, and that he has acted
too hastily." There are all kinds of stones on the spot. But two of the Schandkerlen still Life and they
should get lost here, a very inhuman hours with white hair, but still a young guy and a wise
little head and he has a voice as like a Child, and then another, as short and thick, like a
barrel with a foxy beard and two scars on his face, as wide as a finger and very red, the other
from the front in the mouth and the other from ear to ear, that it looks like a cross, and therefore
the guy is also the Holy Cross and the other of the infant. If the look here let, which should
not kill her, alive I will have hear thou


'They prayed long and earnestly, that sorrowful mother and son. At length a light broke over
the pallid countenance of the youth; he raised his head slowly and with difficulty from that
dear mother's supporting arms, and gazed into her tearful eyes with a look of unutterable love.
"Mother, blessed mother," he whispered, "the agony is over; I feel calm and happy now. Our
prayers are accepted; the divine peace which Christ bestowed upon His disciples, His last,
best gift, is filling my heart, and the anger I felt at my dear father's unjust suspicions
is lost in pity and love. My sorrows are over; his, alas! are to come. To you, dearest mother,
I leave the task of reconciliation. You will vindicate my memory, and teach him to respect
me in death. And that miserable old man--tell him to deal gently with him for my sake. Tell
him that I forgive him, that he must forgive him also, and lead the sinner back to God." He
paused, and panted for breath. "George," cried the terrified mother, "you are ill; let me send
for Dr. Aldis, and call your father."

'"Too late! who can heal a broken heart? It will soon be over. God is dealing very gently with
me, beloved mother. Let the thought console you that you have a son in heaven. But my father,
my dear, unhappy father, may God comfort him! It grows very dark; I cannot see your sweet face,
mother, but all around is joy and peace."

'A shade passed over the noble young face, a tremor shook the slight frame of the dying boy,
and the enfranchized spirit, throwing off the last coil of clay, followed the unseen messenger
to the land of the hereafter.

'A shriek, a loud, piercing shriek, rang through the silent house. Dr. Leatrim started from
his knees and rushed up-stairs. The next moment he was standing beside the bed of his son,
upon which his wife was sitting with the head of the dead boy in her lap.

'The Doctor staggered like a drunken man, and held to the bed-post for support. He comprehended
the awful truth at a glance, but the conviction was too terrible to receive at once. And to whom a horse
taken at this time, comes first. For let me remain a good gun, cash money I do not want. "

He looked at all that there were standing around: "Are you all still healing," one shouted,
"Yes, only Viekenludolf is a bit bled. Well, yes, more blood has, as he may need a bachelor,
"going all laughed loudly.

They had sixty-six horses, a cart full of cured meat and eleven cars with oats, Flour and bread,
not counting the cash, the clothes and the weapons captured. A young guy screaming going on: "Children,
who are on business from an" all laughed and cried Harm? "Drewes
and I, you know, Drew? "The did so, laughing as if he wanted. "The seal of God is on that brow. Your severity could only destroy the body; God has
claimed the soul. I cannot weep for him; he is happier than his parents. Can you now look in
that pure face and believe him guilty?"

'"O woman, great is your faith. But the proof--how can I do away with the proof of his crime?"

'"Leave that to me. I have a solemn duty to perform for my murdered son. May God give me strength
for the task. Call Ralph Wilson, but do not tell him what has happened."

'Humbled and subdued, but still unconvinced of his son's innocence, the Doctor left the room,
and shortly returned, followed by the old man.

'Mrs. Leatrim motioned to him to approach the bed.

'Rigid and immoveable, the Doctor resumed his place, still grasping the bed-post to support
him from falling. Mrs. Leatrim spoke slowly and with some effort, but every word fell distinctly
upon his ear.

'"Ralph Wilson, this is your work!"

'"I, my lady? I did not kill him! I did not strike him hard enough for that. It was the Doctor
that ordered me to do it. I begged him to have mercy on the lad. O Lord! who would have thought
of his taking a little beating so to heart?"

'The old man turned from the bed, and cried aloud.

'"A slanderous tongue is sharper than a two-edged sword; to noble natures like his, it strikes
home to the heart. Ralph Wilson, you are an old man standing on the very verge of the grave.
You accused my son of theft, and declared on your word of honour as a Christian that you saw
him commit the robbery!"

'"Yes, my lady. A dreadful business, my lady, but too true." It
Schummert already when they arrived there, the owl flew over them and when he in the forest
, he shouted hollow. The fog was thick behind the cutting of turf, ringing in the air Ducks
and frightened the deer in the meadows.

No one said a word, now and then they stopped and listened to where the old castle wall, was
and then she looked back before him on the path that it noted that people and livestock had
gone out fresh. In the Wohld it was so gloomy, that they had to descend. Hin and forth it went,
now to the right, then straight, then bear left and so continue in one. From and rattled off a dove
in front of them, or a deer broke through the wood. Then remained
they stand and listened.

'"You, Ralph?" and the Doctor tried to shake himself free from the grasp of the withered hands
that clutched his garments. "Oh, my poor injured boy!"

'"Yes, I did it," continued Ralph, in a tone of despair. "The devil tempted me, as he did Judas
to betray his Master. I have been a hypocrite all my life. I loved gold--I worshipped it--I
lost no opportunity of obtaining it when I could escape detection; but it has destroyed my
miserable soul."

'"But why lay the robbery of the box on George?" asked Dr. Leatrim. "You were safe from detection;
I never suspected you."

'"But he did," returned the old man bitterly. "He never loved me. I saw it in his eye. I knew
it by his manner. He believed me to be a rogue, though he dared not express his opinion in
words. I hated him because he knew my character; and to ensure my own safety, I denounced him."

'"And what do you think of your work?" and the Doctor turned Ralph's face towards the dead.

'"Mercy! mercy!" shrieked the felon. "I would rather die upon the gallows than look in that
face again."

'"You will have to meet it once more, and that before long, Ralph Wilson, to answer for this
foul murder at the judgment-seat of Christ."

'With a heavy groan the old man fell down in a swoon at his master's feet.

'"Deal gently with Ralph," said a low voice from the bed. "George made it his dying request.
He not only forgave him his sin against himself, but charged you to do so for his sake. My
dear afflicted husband," continued Mrs. Leatrim, "let us be thankful to the heavenly Father
that He has cleared the stain of guilt from the memory of a beloved son, and placed him beyond
the power of sin and temptation for ever."'

'And what became of the wicked old man?' said I eagerly.

'That night Mrs. Leatrim died. Her son's tragic end brought on a fatal return of her dangerous
malady. When Ralph heard of her death, he went out and hung himself. What Dr. Leatrim's feelings
were at this unlooked-for desolation of all his earthly hopes, one can only imagine, it is
impossible to describe. One grave contained the mortal remains of the mother and son, and the
sad story created for the bereaved husband and father a world-wide sympathy.

'It was some years after the occurrence of this domestic tragedy before I visited Westcliff.
Time had softened the anguish of the wound, but it was still unclosed, and left the traces
of a deep, incurable grief in my uncle's face. He had become a drooping, white-haired man,
but was still at his post, a faithful and zealous minister of the gospel.

'Sorrow had worn smooth all the harsh angles in his character, and made him simple and affectionate
as a little child. He had borne the cross and worn the crown of thorns, and, purified by self-denial
and suffering, had found love a more powerful weapon than fear in bringing souls to Christ.
His calamities had endeared him to his people, and he had become their pastor in the truest
sense of the word.

'On the anniversary of the day when George and his mother died, Dr. Leatrim holds a solemn
fast, and excludes himself from every eye, spending the long day in meditation and prayer.

'One fine summer evening last July, I was strolling through Westcliff churchyard, and found
the dear old man lying on the turf that covered the remains of his wife and son. He called
me to him.

'"This little hillock of green sod," he said, "contains all that was once dearest to me on
earth. My heart rebelled against God when my treasures were taken from me; but the Judge of
all the earth knew what was best for my eternal peace. It was not until these idols were shattered
in the dust that I discovered that I was poor, and blind, and naked, and not a righteous man,
wiser and better than my neighbours. In my deep sorrow and humiliation I was taught the knowledge
of myself; that I was still in my sins, a proud, unregenerated man. Yes; I can now acknowledge
with the deepest gratitude, that, heavy and maddening as the blow was, it was necessary to
bring me to God, and make me a true Christian." Small beer was, and Met, and two barrels and a Mumm Tobacco,
as he had smoked any yet, and it was not surprising, because the had Drewes and accepted his Haidgänger
a column some time ago and twelve barrels Spanish Wine to which was as sweet as honey, and
it got all the old men and women of all one or two glasses of cordial. "I am now all in ninetieth
years or so around," said the man of the house Bollenhofe, "but as much as I do not have any
day in my life not gone, "and he nodded very happy to his great-grandchildren, all jaws fully
of the sweet raisin bread had that was intended for the dissolute womenfolk, the Wallenstein's
officers to carry around.
und.


'"Ah," he said, rising from his recumbent posture, and speaking in a cheerful, hopeful voice,
"How little we 'know of the spirit of which we are made.' I have reason to rejoice--ay! and
I do rejoice--that God gave me such a son, and that he died a true Christian martyr, forgiving
and praying for the wretched sinners that caused his death."'

