"I have to thank you that I could do either. It was really you who spoke."

"No, Mr. Gregory," she said, gently, "my work for you reached its limit. God is leading you now."

"I try to hope so," he said; "but it was your hand that placed in mine that by which He is
leading me. He surely must have put it into your heart to give me that Bible. When I reached
my cheerless rooms in New York I felt so lonely and low-spirited that I had not the courage
to go a single step further. But your Bible became a living, comforting presence from that
night. What exquisite tact you showed in giving me that little worn companion of your childhood,
instead of a new gilt- leaved one, with no associations. I first hoped that you might with
it give me also something of your childhood's faith. But that does not come yet. That does
not come."

"It will," said she, earnestly, and with moistened eyes.

"That, now, is one of my dearest hopes. But after what I have been, I am not worthy that it
should come soon. But if I perish myself I want to try to help others."

Then he asked, in honest distrustfulness, "Do you think it right for one who is not a Christian
to try to teach others?"

"Before I answer that question I wish to ask a little more about yourself;" and she skilfully
drew him out, he speaking more openly in view of the question to be decided than he would otherwise
have done. He told of the long evenings spent over her Bible; of his mission work, and of his
honest effort to deal justly with all; at the same time dwelling strongly on his doubts and
spiritual darkness, and the unspent influences of his old evil life.

The answer was different from what he expected; for she said: "Mr. Gregory, why do you say
that you are not a Christian?"

"Because I feel that I am not."

"Does feeling merely make a Christian?" she asked. "Is not action more than feeling? Do not
trusting, following, serving, and seeking to obey, make a Christian? But suppose that even
with your present feeling you were living at the time of Christ's visible presence on earth,
would you be hostile or indifferent, or would you join His band even though small and despised?"

"I think I would do the latter, if permitted."

"I know you would, from your course last night. And do you think Jesus would say, 'Because
you are not an emotional man like Peter, you are no friend of mine'? Why, Mr. Gregory, He let
even Judas Iscariot, though with unworthy motive, follow Him as long as he would, giving him
a chance to become true."

"Miss Walton, do not mislead me in this matter. You know how implicitly I trust you."

"And I would rather cast myself over into those waves than deceive you," she said; "and if
I saw them swallowing you up I should as confidently expect to meet you again, as my father.
How strange it is you can believe that Jesus died for you and yet will not receive you when
you are doing just that which He died to accomplish."

He took a few rapid turns up and down the deck and then leaned over the railing. She saw that
he brushed more than one tear into the waves. At last he turned and gave his hand in warm pressure,
saying, "I cannot doubt you, and I will doubt Him no longer. I see that I have wronged Him,
and the thought causes me sorrow even in my joy."

"Now you are my brother in very truth," she said, gently, with glad tears in her own eyes.
"All that we have passed through has not been in vain. How wonderfully God has led us!"

It was a long time before either spoke again.

At last he said, with a strange, wondering smile, "To think that such as I should ever reach
heaven! As Daddy Tuggar says, 'there will be good neighbors there.'"

She answered him by a happy smile, and then both were busy with their own thoughts again. Annie
was thinking how best to introduce the subject so near her heart, his reconciliation with Hunting.

But that gentleman had become so tortured with jealousy and so alarmed at the thought of any
prolonged conference between Annie and Gregory, that he dragged himself on deck. As he watched
them a moment before they saw him, he was quite reassured. Gregory was merely standing near
Annie, and both were looking away to sea, as if they had nothing special to say to each other.
Annie was pained to see that Gregory's manner did not change toward Hunting. He was perfectly
polite, but nothing more; soon he excused himself, thinking they would like to be alone.

In the afternoon she found a moment to say, "Mr. Gregory, will you never become reconciled
to Mr. Hunting? You surely cannot hate him now?"

He replied, gravely, "I do not hate him any longer. I would do him any kindness in my power,
and that is a great deal for me to say. But Mr. Hunting has no real wish for reconciliation."

In bitter sorrow she was compelled to admit to herself the truth of his words. After a moment
he added, "If he does he knows the exact terms on which it can be effected."

She could not understand it, and reproached herself bitterly that so many doubts in regard
to her affianced would come unbidden, and force themselves on her mind. The feeling grew stronger
that there was wrong on both sides, and perhaps the more on Hunting's.

That was a memorable day to Gregory. It seemed to him that Annie's hand had drawn aside the
sombre curtain of his unbelief, and shown the path of light shining more and more unto the
perfect day. Though comparatively lonely, he felt that his pilgrimage could not now be unhappy,
and that every sorrow would at last find its cure. In regard to her earthly future he could
only hope and trust. It would be a terrible trial to his faith if she were permitted to marry
Hunting, and yet he was sure it would all be well at last; for was it not said that God's people
would come to their rest out of "great tribulation"? She had given him the impression that,
under any circumstances, her love for him could only be sisterly in its character.

But he was too happy in his new-born hope to think of much else that day; and, finding a secluded
nook, he searched Annie's Bible for truths confirmatory of her words. On every side they glowed
as in letters of light. Then late that night he went on deck, and in his strong excitement
felt as if walking on air in his long, glad vigil.

At last, growing wearied, he leaned upon the railing and looked out upon the dark waves--not
dark to him, for the wanderer at last had seen the light of his heavenly home, and felt that
it would cheer his way till the portals opened and received him into rest.

Suddenly, upon the top of a distant wave, something large and white appeared, and then sank
into an ocean valley. Again it rose--a sail, then the dark hull of a ship.

In dreamy musing he began, wondering how, in mid-ocean, with so many leagues of space, two
vessels should cross each other's track so near. "It's just the same with human lives," he
thought. "A few months or years ago, people that I never knew, and might have passed on the
wider ocean of life, unknowing and uncaring, have now come so near! Why is it? Why does that
ship, with the whole Atlantic before it, come so steadily toward us?"

It did come so steadily and so near that a feeling of uneasiness troubled him, but he thought
that those in charge knew their business better than he.

A moment later he started forward. The ship that had come so silently and phantom-like across
the waves seemed right in the path of the steamer.

Was it not a phantom?

No; there's a white face at the wheel--the man is making a sudden, desperate effort--it's too late.

With a crash like thunder the seeming phantom ship plows into the steamer's side.

For a moment Gregory was appalled, stunned; and stared at the fatal intruder that fell back
in strong rebound, and dropped astern.

Then he became conscious of the confusion, and awakening uproar on both vessels. Cries of agony,
shouts of alarm, and hoarse orders pierced the midnight air. He ran forward and saw the yawning
cavern which the blow had made in the ship's side, and heard the rush of water into the hold.
Across the chasm he saw the captain's pale face looking down with a dismay like his own.

"The ship will sink, and soon," Gregory shouted.

There was no denial.

Down to the startled passengers he rushed, crying, "Awake! Escape for your lives!"

His words were taken up and echoed in every part of the ship.

He struck a heavy blow upon the door of Annie's stateroom. "Miss Walton!"

"Oh, what has happened?" she asked.

"You and Miss Morton come on deck, instantly; don't stop to dress; snatch a shawl--anything.
Lose not a moment. What is Hunting's number?"

"Forty, on the opposite side."

"I will be back in a moment; be ready."

Hunting's state-room was so near where the steamer had been struck that its door was jammed
and could not be opened.

"Help! help! I can't get out," shrieked the terrified man.

Gregory wrenched a leaf from a dining-room table and pried the door open.

"Come," he said, "you've no time to dress."

Hunting wrapped his trembling form in a blanket and gasped, as he followed, "I'll pay you back
every cent of that money with interest."

"Make your peace with God. We may soon be before Him," was the awful response.

Miss Eulie and Annie stood waiting, draped in heavy shawls.

"I'm sorry for the delay; Hunting's door was jammed and had to be broken open. Come;" and putting
his arm around Miss Eulie and taking Annie's hand, he forced them rapidly through the increasing
throng of terror-stricken passengers that were rushing in all directions.

Even then, with a strange thrill at heart, Annie thought, "He has saved his enemy's life."

He took them well aft, and said, "Don't move; stand just here until I return," and then pushed
his way to the point where a frantic crowd were snatching for the life preservers which were
being given out. The officer, knowing him, tossed him four as requested.

Coming back, he said to Hunting, "Fasten that one on Miss Morton and keep the other." Throwing
down his own for a moment, he proceeded to fasten Annie's. He would not trust the demoralized
Hunting to do anything for her, and he was right, for Hunting's hands so trembled that he was
helpless. Having seen that Annie's was secured beyond a doubt, Gregory also tied on Miss Eulie's.

In the meantime a passenger snatched his own preserving-belt, which he had been trying to keep
by placing his foot upon it.

"Stop," Annie cried. "O Mr. Gregory! he has taken it and you have none. You shall have mine;"
and she was about to unfasten it.

He laid a strong grasp upon her hands. "Stop such folly," he said, sternly. "Come to where
they are launching that boat. You have no choice;" and he forced her forward while Hunting
followed with Miss Eulie.

They stood waiting where the lantern's glare fell upon their faces, with many others more pale
and agonized.

Annie clung to him as her only hope (for Hunting seemed almost paralyzed with fear), and whispered,
"Will you the same as die for me again?"

"Yes, God bless you! a thousand times if there were need," he said, in tones whose gentleness
equalled the harshness of his former words.

She looked at him wonderingly. There was no fear upon his face, only unspeakable love for her.

"Are you not afraid?" she asked.

"You said I was a Christian to-day, and your Bible and God's voice in my heart have confirmed
your words. No, I am at peace in all this uproar, save anxiety for you."

She buried her face upon his shoulder.

"My darling sister!" he murmured in her ear. "How can I ever thank you enough?"

Then he started suddenly, and tearing off the cape of his coat, said to Hunting, "Fasten that
around Miss Morton;" and before Annie quite knew what he was doing he had taken off the body
part and incased her in it.

"Here, Hunting, your belt is not secure"; and he tightened the straps.

"Pass the women forward," shouted the captain.

Of course those nearest were embarked first. The ladies in Gregory's charge had to take their
turn, and the boat was about full when Miss Eulie was lowered over the side.

At that moment the increasing throng, with a deeper realization of danger, as the truth of
their situation grew plainer, felt the first mad impulse of panic, and there was a rush toward
the boat. Hunting felt the awful contagion. His face had the look of a hunted wild beast. Annie
gazed wonderingly at him, but as he half-started with the others for the boat she understood
him. Laying a restraining hand upon his arm, she said, in a low tone, "If you leave my side
now, you leave it forever."

He cowered back in shame.

The officer in charge of the boat had shouted, "This boat is for women and children; as you
are men and not brutes, stand back."

This checked the desperate mob for a moment, and Gregory was about to pass Annie down when
there was another mad rush led by the blatant individual who had scouted the idea of Providence.

"Cut away all," shouted the captain from the bridge, and the boat dropped astern.

It was only by fierce effort that Gregory kept himself and Annie from being carried over the
side by the surging mass, many of whom leaped blindly over, supposing the boat to be still there.

Pressing their way out they went where another boat was being launched. Hunting followed them
like a child, and was as helpless. He now commenced moaning, "O God! what shall I do? what
shall I do?"

"Trust Him, and be a man. What else should you do?" said Gregory, sternly, for he was deeply
disgusted at Hunting's behavior.

Around this boat the officer in charge had placed a cordon of men to keep the crowd away, and
stood pistol in hand to enforce his orders. But the boat was scarcely lowered before there
was the same wild rush, mostly on the part of the crew and steerage passengers. The officer
fired and brought down the foremost, but the frenzied wretches trampled him down with those
helping, together with women and children, as a herd of buffaloes might have done. They poured
over into the boat, swamped it, and as the steamer moved slowly ahead, were left struggling
and perishing in the waves.

Gregory had put his arm around Annie and drawn her out of the crush. Fortunately they had been
at one side, so that this was possible.

"The boats are useless," he said, sadly. "There will be the same suicidal folly at every one,
even if they have time to lower any more. Come aft. That part will sink last, and there will
be less suction there when the ship goes down. We may find something that will keep us afloat."

Annie clung to his arm and said, quietly, "I will do just as you say," while Hunting followed
in the same maze of terror.

They had hardly got well away before a mast, with its rigging, fell where they had stood, crushing
many and maiming others, rendering them helpless.

"Awful! awful" shuddered Hunting, and Annie put her hands before her eyes.

An officer, with some men, now came toward them with axes, and commenced breaking up the after
wheelhouse.

"Here is our best chance," said Gregory. "Let us calmly await the final moment and then do
the best we can. All this broken timber will float, and we can cling to it."

The ship was settling fast, and had become like a log upon the water, responding slowly and
heavily to the action of the waves. But under the cold, pitiless starlight of that winter night,
what heartrending scenes were witnessed upon her sinking deck! Death had already laid its icy
finger on many, and many more were grouped near in despairing expectation of the same fate.

