The power of declaring measures to be "of urgence" lies with the Grand Council, the body passing
the measures. Small wonder, then, that in its eyes many bills are of too much and too immediate
importance to go to the people. "The habit," protested Grand Councilor M. Putet, on one occasion,
"tends more and more to introduce itself here of decreeing urgence unnecessarily, thus taking
away from the Referendum expenses which have nothing of urgence. This is contrary to the spirit
of the constitutional law. Public necessity alone can authorize the Grand Council to take away
any of its acts from the public control."

Another defect in the optional Referendum is that it can be transformed into a partisan weapon--politicians
being ready, in Geneva, as in San Francisco, to take advantage of the law for party purposes.
For example, the representatives of a minority party, seeking a concession from a majority
which has just passed a bill, will threaten, if their demands are not granted, to agitate for
the Referendum on the bill; this, though the minority itself may favor the measure, some of
its members, perhaps, having voted for it. As the majority may be uncertain of the outcome
of a struggle at the polls, it will probably be inclined to make peace on the terms dictated
by the minority.

But the most serious objections to the optional form arise in connection with the petitioning.
Easy though it be for a rich and strong party to bear the expense of printing, mailing, and
distributing petitions and circulars, in case of opposition from the poorer classes the cost
may prove an insurmountable obstacle. Especially is it difficult to get up a petition after
several successive appeals coming close together, the constant agitation growing tiresome as
well as financially burdensome. Hence, measures have sometimes become law simply because the
people have not had time to recover from the prolonged agitation in connection with preceding
propositions. Besides, each measure submitted to the optional Referendum brings with it two
separate waves of popular discussion--one on the petition and one on the subsequent vote. On
this point ex-President Numa Droz has said: "The agitation which takes place while collecting
the necessary signatures, nearly always attended with strong feeling, diverts the mind from
the object of the law, perverts in advance public opinion, and, not permitting later the calm
discussion of the measure proposed, establishes an almost irresistible current toward rejection."
Finally, a fact as notorious in Switzerland as vote-buying in America, a large number of citizens
who are hostile to a proposed law may fear to record an adverse opinion by signing a Referendum
list. Their signatures may be seen and the unveiling of their sentiments imperil their means
of livelihood.

Zurich furnishes the example of the cantons having the obligatory Referendum. There the law
provides: 1. That all laws, decrees, and changes in the constitution must be submitted to the
people. 2. That all decisions of the Grand Council on existing law must be voted on. 3. That
the Grand Council may submit decisions which it itself proposes to make, and that, besides
the voting on the whole law, the Council may ask a vote on a special point. The Grand Council
cannot put in force provisionally any law or decree. The propositions must be sent to the voters
at least thirty days before voting. The regular referendary ballotings take place twice a year,
spring and autumn, but in urgent cases the Grand Council may call for a special election. The
law in this canton assists the lawmakers--the voters--in their task; when a citizen is casting
his own vote he may also deposit that of one or two relatives and friends, upon presenting
their electoral card or a certificate of authorization.

In effect, the obligatory Referendum makes of the entire citizenship a deliberative body in
perpetual session--this end being accomplished in Zurich in the face of every form of opposing
argument. Formerly, its adversaries made much of the fact that it was ever calling the voters
to the urns; but this is now avoided by the semi-annual elections. It was once feared that
party tickets would be voted without regard to the merits of the various measures submitted;
but it has been proved beyond doubt that the fate of one proposition has no effect whatever
on that of another decided at the same time. Zurich has pronounced on ninety-one laws in twenty-eight
elections, the votes indicating surprising independence of judgment. When the obligatory form
was proposed for Zurich, its supporters declared it a sure instrument, but that it might prove
a costly one they were not prepared by experiment to deny. Now, however, they have the data
to show that taxes--unfailing reflexes of public expenditure--are lower than ever, those for
police, for example, being only about half those of optional Geneva, a less populous canton.
To the prophets who foresaw endless partisan strife in case the Referendum was to be called
in force on every measure, Zurich has replied by reducing partisanship to its feeblest point,
the people indifferent to parties since an honest vote of the whole body of citizens must be
the final issue of every question.

The people of Zurich have proved that the science of politics is simple. By refusing special
legislation, they evade a flood of bills. By deeming appropriations once revised as in most
part necessary, they pay attention chiefly to new items. By establishing principles in law,
they forbid violations. Thus there remain no profound problems of state, no abstruse questions
as to authorities, no conflict as to what is the law. Word fresh from the people is law.

The Federal Referendum.

The Federal Referendum, first established by the constitution of 1874, is optional. The demand
for it must be made by 30,000 citizens or by eight cantons. The petition for a vote under it
must be made within ninety days after the publication of the proposed law. It is operative
with respect either to a statute as passed by the Federal Assembly (congress), or a decree
of the executive power. Of 149 Federal laws and decrees subject to the Referendum passed up
to the close of 1891 under the constitution of 1874, twenty-seven were challenged by the necessary
30,000 petitioners, fifteen being rejected and twelve accepted. The Federal Initiative was
established by a vote taken on Sunday, July 5, 1891. It requires 50,000 petitioners, whose
proposal must be discussed by the Federal assembly and then sent within a prescribed delay
to the whole citizenship for a vote. The Initiative is not a petition to the legislative body;
it is a demand made on the entire citizenship.

Where the cantonal Referendum is optional, a successful petition for it frequently secures
a rejection of the law called in question. In 1862 and again in 1878, the canton of Geneva
rejected proposed changes in its constitution, on the latter occasion by a majority of 6,000
in a vote of 11,000. Twice since 1847 the same canton has decided against an increase of official
salaries, and lately it has declined to reduce the number of its executive councilors from
seven to five. The experience of the Confederation has been similar. Between 1874 and 1880
five measures recommended by the Federal Executive and passed by the Federal Assembly were
vetoed by a national vote.

Revision of Constitutions.

