It took a great deal of teasing to overcome the scruples of the farmer, but he gruffly consented
to receive the young man until his hurt should heal. Ruth attended him faithfully, and the
cheerful, manly nature of the officer so won the farmer's heart that he soon forgot the color
of Howell's coat. Nor was he surprised when Howell told him that he loved his daughter and
asked for her hand; indeed, it had been easy to guess their affection, and the old man declared
that but for his allegiance to a tyrant he would gladly own him as a son-in-law. It was a long
struggle between love and duty that ensued in Howell's breast, and love was victor. If he might
marry Ruth he would leave the army. The old man gave prompt consent, and a secret marriage
was arranged. Howell had been ordered to rejoin his regiment; he could not honorably resign
on the eve of an impending battle, and, even had he done so, a long delay must have preceded
his release. He would marry the girl, go to the country, live there quietly until the British
evacuated Philadelphia, when he would return and cast his lot with the Jarrett household.

Howell donned citizen's dress, and the wedding took place in the spacious best room of the
mansion, but as he slipped the ring on the finger of his bride the roll of a drum was heard
advancing up the steps into the room, then on and away until all was still again. The young
colonel was pale; Ruth clung to him in terror; clergymen and guests looked at each other in
amazement. Now there were voices at the porch, the door was flung open, armed men entered,
and the bridegroom was a prisoner. He was borne to his quarters, and afterward tried for desertion,
for a servant in the Jarrett household, hating all English and wishing them to suffer, even
at each other's hands, had betrayed the plan of his master's guest. The court-martial found
him guilty and condemned him to be shot. When the execution took place, Ruth, praying and sobbing
in her chamber, knew that her husband was no more. The distant sound of musketry reverberated
like the roll of a drum.

THE MISSING SOLDIER OF VALLEY FORGE

During the dreadful winter of the American encampment at Valley Forge six or eight soldiers
went out to forage for provisions. Knowing that little was to be hoped for near the camp of
their starving comrades, they set off in the direction of French Creek. At this stream the
party separated, and a little later two of the men were attacked by Tory farmers. Flying along
the creek for some distance they came to a small cave in a bluff, and one of them, a young
Southerner named Carrington, scrambled into it. His companion was not far behind, and was hurrying
toward the cave, when he was arrested by a rumble and a crash: a block of granite, tons in
weight, that had hung poised overhead, slid from its place and completely blocked the entrance.
The stifled cry of despair from the living occupant of the tomb struck to his heart. He hid
in a neighboring wood until the Tories had dispersed, then, returning to the cave, he strove
with might and main to stir the boulder from its place, but without avail.

When he reached camp, as he did next day, he told of this disaster, but the time for rescue
was believed to be past, or the work was thought to be too exhausting and dangerous for a body
of men who had much ado to keep life in their own weak frames. It was a double tragedy, for
the young man's sweetheart never recovered from the shock that the news occasioned, and on
her tomb, near Richmond, Virginia, these words are chiselled: "Died, of a broken heart, on
the 1st of March, 1780, Virginia Randolph, aged 21 years, 9 days. Faithful unto death." In
the summer of 1889 some workmen, blasting rock near the falls on French Creek, uncovered the
long-concealed cavern and found there a skeleton with a few rags of a Continental uniform.
In a bottle beside it was an account, signed by Arthur L. Carrington, of the accident that
had befallen him, and a letter declaring undying love for his sweetheart.

He had starved to death. The bones were neatly coffined, and were sent to Richmond to be buried
beside those of the faithful Miss Randolph.

THE LAST SHOT AT GERMANTOWN

Many are the tales of prophecy that have been preserved to us from war times. In the beginning
of King Philip's war in Connecticut, in 1675, it was reported that the firing of the first
gun was heard all over the State, while the drumbeats calling settlers to defence were audible
eight miles away. Braddock's defeat and the salvation of Washington were foretold by a Miami
chief at a council held in Fort Ponchartrain, on Detroit River, the ambush and the slaughter
having been revealed to him in a dream. The victims of that battle, too, had been apprised,
for one or two nights before the disaster a young lieutenant in Braddock's command saw his
fellow-officers pass through his tent, bloody and torn, and when the first gun sounded he knew
that it spoke the doom of nearly all his comrades. At Killingly, Connecticut, in the autumn
before the outbreak of the Revolution, a distant roar of artillery was heard for a whole day
and night in the direction of Boston, mingled with a rattle of musketry, and so strong was
the belief that war had begun and the British were advancing, that the minute men mustered
to await orders. It was afterward argued that these noises came from an explosion of meteors,
a shower of these missiles being then in progress, invisible, of course, in the day-time. Just
after the signing of the Declaration of Independence the royal arms on the spire of the Episcopal
church at Hampton, Virginia, were struck off by lightning. Shortly before the surrender of
Cornwallis a display of northern lights was seen in New England, the rays taking the form of
cannon, facing southward. In Connecticut sixty-four of these guns were counted.

At the battle of Germantown the Americans were enraged by the killing of one of their men who
had gone out with a flag of truce. He was shot from the windows of Judge Chew's house, which
was crowded with British soldiers, and as he fell to the lawn, dyeing the peaceful emblem with
his blood, at least one of the Continentals swore that his death should be well avenged. The
British reinforcements, sixteen thousand strong, came hurrying through the street, their officers
but half-dressed, so urgent had been the summons for their aid. Except for their steady tramp
the place was silent; doors were locked and shutters bolted, and if people were within doors
no sign of them was visible. General Agnew alone of all the troop seemed depressed and anxious.
Turning to an aide as they passed the Mennonist graveyard, he said, "This field is the last
I shall fight on."

An eerie face peered over the cemetery wall, a scarred, unshaven face framed in long hair and
surmounting a body clothed in skins, with the question, "Is that the brave General Gray who
beat the rebels at Paoli?" One of the soldiers, with a careless toss of the hand, seemed to
indicate General Agnew. A moment later there was a report, a puff of smoke from the cemetery
wall, and a bullet whizzed by the head of the general, who smiled wanly, to encourage his men.
Summary execution would have been done upon the stranger had not a body of American cavalry
dashed against the red-coats at that moment, and a fierce contest was begun. When the day was
over, General Agnew, who had been separated from his command in the confusion of battle, came
past the graves again. Tired and depressed, he drew rein for a moment to breathe the sweet
air, so lately fouled with dust and smoke, and to watch the gorgeous light of sunset. Again,
like a malignant genius of the place, the savage-looking stranger arose from behind the wall.
A sharp report broke the quiet of evening and awoke clattering echoes from the distant houses.
A horse plunged and General Agnew rolled from his saddle, dead: the last victim in the strife
at Germantown.

A BLOW IN THE DARK

The Tory Manheim sits brooding in his farmhouse near Valley Forge, and his daughter, with a
hectic flush on her cheek, looks out into the twilight at the falling snow. She is worn and
ill; she has brought on a fever by exposure incurred that very day in a secret journey to the
American camp, made to warn her lover of another attempt on the life of Washington, who must
pass her father's house on his return from a distant settlement. The Tory knows nothing of
this; but he starts whenever the men in the next room rattle the dice or break into a ribald
song, and a frown of apprehension crosses his face as the foragers crunch by, half-barefoot,
through the snow. The hours go on, and the noise in the next room increases; but it hushes
suddenly when a knock at the door is heard. The Tory opens it, and trembles as a tall, grave
man, with the figure of an athlete, steps into the fire-light and calmly removes his gloves.
"I have been riding far," said he. "Can you give me some food and the chance to sleep for an
hour, until the storm clears up?"

Manheim says that he can, and shuffling into the next room, he whispers, "Washington!" The
girl is sent out to get refreshments. It is in vain that she seeks to sign or speak to the
man who sits there so calmly before the fire, for her father is never out of sight or hearing.
After Washington has finished his modest repast he asks to be left to himself for a while,
but the girl is told to conduct him to the room on the left of the landing on the next floor.

Her father holds the candle at the foot of the stairs until he sees his guest enter; then he
bids his daughter go to her own bed, which is in the chamber on the right of the landing. There
is busy whispering in the room below after that, and the dice box is shaken to see to whose
lot it shall fall to steal up those stairs and stab Washington in his sleep. An hour passes
and all in the house appear to be at rest, but the stairs creak slightly as Manheim creeps
upon his prey. He blows his candle out and softly enters the chamber on the left. The men,
who listen in the dark at the foot of the stair, hear a moan, and the Tory hurries back with
a shout of gladness, for the rebel chief is no more and Howe's reward will enrich them for life.

Glasses are filled, and in the midst of the rejoicing a step is heard on the stair. Washington
stands before them. In calm, deep tones he thanks the farmer for his shelter, and asks that
his horse be brought to the door and his reckoning be made out. The Tory stares as one bereft.
Then he rushes aloft, flings open the door of the room on the left, and gazes at the face that
rests on the pillow,--a pillow that is dabbled with red. The face is that of his daughter.
The name of father is one that he will never hear again in this world. The candle falls from
his hand; he sinks to the floor; be his sin forgiven! Outside is heard the tramp of a horse.
It is that of Washington, who rides away, ignorant of the peril he has passed and the sacrifice
that averted it.

THE TORY'S CONVERSION

In his firelit parlor, in his little house at Valley Forge, old Michael Kuch sits talking with
his daughter. But though it is Christmas eve the talk has little cheer in it. The hours drag
on until the clock strikes twelve, and the old man is about to offer his evening prayer for
the safety of his son, who is one of Washington's troopers, when hurried steps are heard in
the snow, there is a fumbling at the latch, then the door flies open and admits a haggard,
panting man who hastily closes it again, falls into a seat, and shakes from head to foot. The
girl goes to him. "John!" she says. But he only averts his face. "What is wrong with thee,
John Blake?" asks the farmer. But he has to ask again and again ere he gets an answer. Then,
in a broken voice, the trembling man confesses that he has tried to shoot Washington, but the
bullet struck and killed his only attendant, a dragoon. He has come for shelter, for men are
on his track already. "Thou know'st I am neutral in this war, John Blake," answered the farmer,--"although
I have a boy down yonder in the camp. It was a cowardly thing to do, and I hate you Tories
that you do not fight like men; yet, since you ask me for a hiding-place, you shall have it,
though, mind you, 'tis more on the girl's account than yours. The men are coming. Out--this
way--to the spring-house. So!"

Before old Michael has time to return to his chair the door is again thrust open, this time
by men in blue and buff. They demand the assassin, whose footsteps they have tracked there
through the snow. Michael does not answer. They are about to use violence when, through the
open door, comes Washington, who checks them with a word. The general bears a drooping form
with a blood splash on its breast, and deposits it on the hearth as gently as a mother puts
a babe into its cradle. As the firelight falls on the still face the farmer's eyes grow round
and big; then he shrieks and drops upon his knees, for it is his son who is lying there. Beside
him is a pistol; it was dropped by the Tory when he entered. Grasping it eagerly the farmer
leaps to his feet. His years have fallen from him. With a tiger-like bound he gains the door,
rushes to the spring-house where John Blake is crouching, his eyes sunk and shining, gnawing
his fingers in a craze of dismay. But though hate is swift, love is swifter, and the girl is
there as soon as he. She strikes his arm aside, and the bullet he has fired lodges in the wood.
He draws out his knife, and the murderer, to whom has now come the calmness of despair, kneels
and offers his breast to the blade. Before he can strike, the soldiers hasten up, and seizing
Blake, they drag him to the house--the little room--where all had been so peaceful but a few
minutes before.

The culprit is brought face to face with Washington, who asks him what harm he has ever suffered
from his fellow countrymen that he should turn against them thus. Blake hangs his head and
owns his willingness to die. His eyes rest on the form extended on the floor, and he shudders;
but his features undergo an almost joyous change, for the figure lifts itself, and in a faint
voice calls, "Father!" The young man lives. With a cry of delight both father and sister raise
him in their arms. "You are not yet prepared to die," says Washington to the captive. "I will
put you under guard until you are wanted. Take him into custody, my dear young lady, and try
to make an American of him. See, it is one o'clock, and this is Christmas morning. May all
be happy here. Come." And beckoning to his men he rides away, though Blake and his affianced
would have gone on their knees before him. Revulsion of feeling, love, thankfulness and a latent
patriotism wrought a quick change in Blake. When young Kuch recovered Blake joined his regiment,
and no soldier served the flag more honorably.

LORD PERCY'S DREAM

