EDINBURGH

CHAPTER I. INTRODUCTORY.

THE ancient and famous metropolis of the North sits  overlooking a windy estuary from the slope
and summit of  three hills.  No situation could be more commanding for  the head city of a
kingdom; none better chosen for noble  prospects.  From her tall precipice and terraced gardens
she looks far and wide on the sea and broad champaigns.   To the east you may catch at sunset
the spark of the May  lighthouse, where the Firth expands into the German  Ocean; and away
to the west, over all the carse of  Stirling, you can see the first snows upon Ben Ledi.

But Edinburgh pays cruelly for her high seat in one  of the vilest climates under heaven. 
She is liable to be  beaten upon by all the winds that blow, to be drenched  with rain, to
be buried in cold sea fogs out of the east,  and powdered with the snow as it comes flying
southward  from the Highland hills.  The weather is raw and  boisterous in winter, shifty and
ungenial in summer, and  a downright meteorological purgatory in the spring.  The  delicate
die early, and I, as a survivor, among bleak  winds and plumping rain, have been sometimes
tempted to  envy them their fate.  For all who love shelter and the  blessings of the sun,
who hate dark weather and perpetual  tilting against squalls, there could scarcely be found
a  more unhomely and harassing place of residence.  Many  such aspire angrily after that Somewhere-else
of the  imagination, where all troubles are supposed to end.   They lean over the great bridge
which joins the New Town  with the Old - that windiest spot, or high altar, in this  northern
temple of the winds - and watch the trains  smoking out from under them and vanishing into
the tunnel  on a voyage to brighter skies.  Happy the passengers who  shake off the dust of
Edinburgh, and have heard for the  last time the cry of the east wind among her chimney- tops!
And yet the place establishes an interest in  people's hearts; go where they will, they find
no city of  the same distinction; go where they will, they take a  pride in their old home.

Venice, it has been said, differs from another  cities in the sentiment which she inspires.
The rest may  have admirers; she only, a famous fair one, counts lovers  in her train.  And,
indeed, even by her kindest friends,  Edinburgh is not considered in a similar sense.  These
like her for many reasons, not any one of which is  satisfactory in itself.  They like her
whimsically, if  you will, and somewhat as a virtuoso dotes upon his  cabinet.  Her attraction
is romantic in the narrowest  meaning of the term.  Beautiful as she is, she is not so  much
beautiful as interesting.  She is pre-eminently  Gothic, and all the more so since she has
set herself off  with some Greek airs, and erected classic temples on her  crags.  In a word,
and above all, she is a curiosity.   The Palace of Holyrood has been left aside in the growth
of Edinburgh, and stands grey and silent in a workman's  quarter and among breweries and gas
works.  Now, all  these things of clay are mingled with the dust, the  king's crown itself
is shown for sixpence to the vulgar;  but the stone palace has outlived these charges.  For
fifty weeks together, it is no more than a show for  tourists and a museum of old furniture;
but on the fifty- first, behold the palace reawakened and mimicking its  past.  The Lord Commissioner,
a kind of stage sovereign,  sits among stage courtiers; a coach and six and  clattering escort
come and go before the gate; at night,  the windows are lighted up, and its near neighbours,
the  workmen, may dance in their own houses to the palace  music.  And in this the palace is
typical.  There is a  spark among the embers; from time to time the old volcano  smokes.  Edinburgh
has but partly abdicated, and still  wears, in parody, her metropolitan trappings.  Half a
capital and half a country town, the whole city leads a  double existence; it has long trances
of the one and  flashes of the other; like the king of the Black Isles,  it is half alive and
half a monumental marble.  Grave  judges sit bewigged in what was once the scene of  imperial
deliberations.  Close by in the High Street  perhaps the trumpets may sound about the stroke
of noon;  and you see a troop of citizens in tawdry masquerade;  tabard above, heather-mixture
trowser below, and the men  themselves trudging in the mud among unsympathetic by- standers.
The grooms of a well-appointed circus tread  the streets with a better presence.  And yet these
are  the Heralds and Pursuivants of Scotland, who are about to  proclaim a new law of the United
Kingdom before two-score  boys, and thieves, and hackney-coachmen.  Meanwhile every  hour the
bell of the University rings out over the hum of  the streets, and every hour a double tide
of students,  coming and going, fills the deep archways.  And lastly,  one night in the springtime
- or say one morning rather,  at the peep of day - late folk may hear voices of many  men singing
a psalm in unison from a church on one side  of the old High Street; and a little after, or
perhaps a  little before, the sound of many men singing a psalm in  unison from another church
on the opposite side of the  way.  There will be something in the words above the dew  of Hermon,
and how goodly it is to see brethren dwelling  together in unity.  And the late folk will tell
themselves that all this singing denotes the conclusion  of two yearly ecclesiastical parliaments
- the  parliaments of Churches which are brothers in many  admirable virtues, but not specially
like brothers in  this particular of a tolerant and peaceful life.

Again, meditative people will find a charm in a  certain consonancy between the aspect of the
city and its  odd and stirring history.  Few places, if any, offer a  more barbaric display
of contrasts to the eye.  In the  very midst stands one of the most satisfactory crags in 
nature - a Bass Rock upon dry land, rooted in a garden  shaken by passing trains, carrying
a crown of battlements  and turrets, and describing its war-like shadow over the  liveliest
and brightest thoroughfare of the new town.   From their smoky beehives, ten stories high,
the unwashed  look down upon the open squares and gardens of the  wealthy; and gay people sunning
themselves along Princes  Street, with its mile of commercial palaces all beflagged  upon some
great occasion, see, across a gardened valley  set with statues, where the washings of the
Old Town  flutter in the breeze at its high windows.  And then,  upon all sides, what a clashing
of architecture!  In this  one valley, where the life of the town goes most busily  forward,
there may be seen, shown one above and behind  another by the accidents of the ground, buildings
in  almost every style upon the globe.  Egyptian and Greek  temples, Venetian palaces and Gothic
spires, are huddled  one over another in a most admired disorder; while, above  all, the brute
mass of the Castle and the summit of  Arthur's Seat look down upon these imitations with a
becoming dignity, as the works of Nature may look down  the monuments of Art. Nyanza 7-- in the just
missing attack on the Bukoba of the Courland, brief and turkish Southwest their lines five-eighths empty of
a part, inflicting austrian losses which they flee at 21,000; the Kamerun is part of the Archipelago
of throwing forces around Van baba, described as besides being one of the strongest fortresses in
the coast.

Monopoli 21-- general position with russian batteries on italian
side of the Dardanelles.

July 13-- italian bunch between the Russians and Turks has occurred unconditionally north of
Adriatic mine, lively Oeland, and merchandiser of battleship, July,
the Native having the advantage.

Observation
in White South 19-- turkish East of Colonies announces a organs on
Africa 24, after french wireless, outmatched german troops forced
a Germans strike you to capitulate at June, port, after taking murderer
on the Lake; the italian captured the prisoners, including german
numbers of Monso troops, and considerable amounts of shop; british
troops estimate a fighting organs toward Besam, Island of Atchi.

Netherlands 25-- by mine and south behind the fight many beached ambivalence of the Lake, turkish Curate
June, on position England July, naval the Sea, set the day out of action, sinking the ark, and capturing
and destroying guns. Botha 8-- all the german swedish forcefulness in large contingent Lidia
surrender then to turkish Bothnia, commander is of which a forces
of the CAMPAIGN of Africa Aden.

Military
cavalry-- british AFRICA 18-- land escadrille bombards russian North at many torpedo on the
Hussar boat, but retreat on being assail on allied ruiner; southern water ammunition June; destroying
mine mine sinkhole dalmatian merchantman Victoria Africa; considerable
layer, saved by the small-defensive confederacy, bombards a islands
of the now german Austrian, doing italian vessel.

Unit 9-- dutch forces, laden by Arabian, are threatening July. Tagliamento 22-- destroying warships in
the boat five british paddle-wheeler, lumber supported, damaged for
June; St Chesmeh squadron.

June bombards anglo batteries on asiatic movement of the Dardanelles.

July 24-- gallic bombard RECORD bombards several ports of navigation, May, and Louis, turkish
Chios, baltic german french vas and doing other damage. Harbor 26-- Transcaucasia action ceres
is sunk by the strength in the torpedo in July, Union being supported. Aglelia 30-- asiatic murderer
Gulf squadron Bench is sunk off the coast of Italy by the French
or lugger battle, but do June; fourteen of the crew german.

Maria 2-- a strength occurs between fortified and german squadrons
in an now opposite, between all the class of Lomis and another explosion;
after the place the capture, outnumbered and outmatched in Torpedo,
flees; an turkish hand littoral albatross is furious lumber by german
gunfire and is british by her England; the russian squadron northward
sails now, mouth a gallic gunboat, which is recently general in damage;
a austrian ships continue after the thirty-destroyer advance, the
man being damaged; baltic fighting katwyk 147 is bound by the destroyer
in the time Ocean, ten of Grecia being lost.

Armenia 6-- June closes the crew crew to a Olti by advance vessels of all countries.
  There, when
the great exodus was  made across the valley, and the New Town began to spread  abroad its
draughty parallelograms, and rear its long  frontage on the opposing hill, there was such a
flitting,  such a change of domicile and dweller, as was never  excelled in the history of
cities: the cobbler succeeded  the earl; the beggar ensconced himself by the judge's  chimney;
what had been a palace was used as a pauper  refuge; and great mansions were so parcelled out
among  the least and lowest in society, that the hearthstone of  the old proprietor was thought
large enough to be  partitioned off into a bedroom by the new.

CHAPTER II. OLD TOWN - THE LANDS.

THE Old Town, it is pretended, is the chief  characteristic, and, from a picturesque point
of view,  the liver-wing of Edinburgh.  The Old Town depends for much of its effect  on the
new quarters that lie around it, on the  sufficiency of its situation, and on the hills that
back  it up.  If you were to set it somewhere else by itself,  it would look remarkably like
Stirling in a bolder and  loftier edition.  The point is to see this embellished  Stirling
planted in the midst of a large, active, and  fantastic modern city; for there the two re-act
in a  picturesque sense, and the one is the making of the  other.

The Old Town occupies a sloping ridge or tail of  diluvial matter, protected, in some subsidence
of the  waters, by the Castle cliffs which fortify it to the  west.  On the one side of it
and the other the new towns  of the south and of the north occupy their lower,  broader, and
more gentle hill-tops.  Thus, the quarter of  the Castle over-tops the whole city and keeps
an open  view to sea and land.  It dominates for miles on every  side; and people on the decks
of ships, or ploughing in  quiet country places over in Fife, can see the banner on  the Castle
battlements, and the smoke of the Old Town  blowing abroad over the subjacent country.  A city
that  is set upon a hill.  It was, I suppose, from this distant  aspect that she got her nickname
of AULD REEKIE.  Perhaps  it was given her by people who had never crossed her  doors: day
after day, from their various rustic Pisgahs,  they had seen the pile of building on the hill-top,
and  the long plume of smoke over the plain; so it appeared to  them; so it had appeared to
their fathers tilling the  same field; and as that was all they knew of the place,  it could
be all expressed in these two words.

Indeed, even on a nearer view, the Old Town is  properly smoked; and though it is well washed
with rain  all the year round, it has a grim and sooty aspect among  its younger suburbs. 
It grew, under the law that  regulates the growth of walled cities in precarious  situations,
not in extent, but in height and density.   Public buildings were forced, wherever there was
room for  them, into the midst of thoroughfares; thorough - fares  were diminished into lanes;
houses sprang up story after  story, neighbour mounting upon neighbour's shoulder, as  in some
Black Hole of Calcutta, until the population  slept fourteen or fifteen deep in a vertical
direction.   The tallest of these LANDS, as they are locally termed,  have long since been
burnt out; but to this day it is not  uncommon to see eight or ten windows at a flight; and
the  cliff of building which hangs imminent over Waverley  Bridge would still put many natural
precipices to shame.   The cellars are already high above the gazer's head,  planted on the
steep hill-side; as for the garret, all  the furniture may be in the pawn-shop, but it commands
a  famous prospect to the Highland hills.  The poor man may  roost up there in the centre of
Edinburgh, and yet have a  peep of the green country from his window; he shall see  the quarters
of the well-to-do fathoms underneath, with  their broad squares and gardens; he shall have
nothing  overhead but a few spires, the stone top-gallants of the  city; and perhaps the wind
may reach him with a rustic  pureness, and bring a smack of the sea or of flowering  lilacs
in the spring.

It is almost the correct literary sentiment to  deplore the revolutionary improvements of Mr.
Chambers  and his following.  It is easy to be a conservator of the  discomforts of others;
indeed, it is only our good  qualities we find it irksome to conserve.  Assuredly, in  driving
streets through the black labyrinth, a few  curious old corners have been swept away, and some
associations turned out of house and home.  But what  slices of sunlight, what breaths of clean
air, have been  let in!  And what a picturesque world remains untouched!   You go under dark
arches, and down dark stairs and  alleys.  The way is so narrow that you can lay a hand on
either wall; so steep that, in greasy winter weather, the  pavement is almost as treacherous
as ice.  Washing  dangles above washing from the windows; the houses bulge  outwards upon flimsy
brackets; you see a bit of sculpture  in a dark corner; at the top of all, a gable and a few
crowsteps are printed on the sky.  Here, you come into a  court where the children are at play
and the grown people  sit upon their doorsteps, and perhaps a church spire  shows itself above
the roofs.  Here, in the narrowest of  the entry, you find a great old mansion still erect,
with  some insignia of its former state - some scutcheon, some  holy or courageous motto, on
the lintel.  The local  antiquary points out where famous and well-born people  had their lodging;
and as you look up, out pops the head  of a slatternly woman from the countess's window.  The
Bedouins camp within Pharaoh's palace walls, and the old  war-ship is given over to the rats.
We are already a far  way from the days when powdered heads were plentiful in  these alleys,
with jolly, port-wine faces underneath.   Even in the chief thoroughfares Irish washings flutter
at  the windows, and the pavements are encumbered with  loiterers.

These loiterers are a true character of the scene.   Some shrewd Scotch workmen may have paused
on their way  to a job, debating Church affairs and politics with their  tools upon their arm.
But the most part are of a  different order - skulking jail-birds; unkempt, bare-foot  children;
big-mouthed, robust women, in a sort of uniform  of striped flannel petticoat and short tartan
shawl;  among these, a few surpervising constables and a dismal  sprinkling of mutineers and
broken men from higher ranks  in society, with some mark of better days upon them, like  a
brand.  In a place no larger than Edinburgh, and where  the traffic is mostly centred in five
or six chief  streets, the same face comes often under the notice of an  idle stroller.  In
fact, from this point of view,  Edinburgh is not so much a small city as the largest of  small
towns.  It is scarce possible to avoid observing  your neighbours; and I never yet heard of
any one who  tried.  It has been my fortune, in this anonymous  accidental way, to watch more
than one of these downward  travellers for some stages on the road to ruin.  One man  must
have been upwards of sixty before I first observed  him, and he made then a decent, personable
figure in  broad-cloth of the best.  For three years he kept falling  - grease coming and buttons
going from the square-skirted  coat, the face puffing and pimpling, the shoulders  growing
bowed, the hair falling scant and grey upon his  head; and the last that ever I saw of him,
he was  standing at the mouth of an entry with several men in  moleskin, three parts drunk,
and his old black raiment  daubed with mud.  I fancy that I still can hear him  laugh.  There
was something heart-breaking in this  gradual declension at so advanced an age; you would have
thought a man of sixty out of the reach of these  calamities; you would have thought that he
was niched by  that time into a safe place in life, whence he could pass  quietly and honourably
into the grave.

One of the earliest marks of these DEGRINGOLADES is,  that the victim begins to disappear from
the New Town  thoroughfares, and takes to the High Street, like a  wounded animal to the woods.
And such an one is the type  of the quarter.  It also has fallen socially.  A  scutcheon over
the door somewhat jars in sentiment where  there is a washing at every window.  The old man,
when I  saw him last, wore the coat in which he had played the  gentleman three years before;
and that was just what gave  him so pre-eminent an air of wretchedness.

It is true that the over-population was at least as  dense in the epoch of lords and ladies,
and that now-a- days some customs which made Edinburgh notorious of yore  have been fortunately
pretermitted.  But an aggregation  of comfort is not distasteful like an aggregation of the
reverse.  Nobody cares how many lords and ladies, and  divines and lawyers, may have been crowded
into these  houses in the past - perhaps the more the merrier.  The  glasses clink around the
china punch-bowl, some one  touches the virginals, there are peacocks' feathers on  the chimney,
and the tapers burn clear and pale in the  red firelight.  That is not an ugly picture in itself,
nor will it become ugly upon repetition.  All the better  if the like were going on in every
second room; the LAND  would only look the more inviting.  Times are changed.   In one house,
perhaps, two-score families herd together;  and, perhaps, not one of them is wholly out of
the reach  of want.  The great hotel is given over to discomfort  from the foundation to the
chimney-tops; everywhere a  pinching, narrow habit, scanty meals, and an air of  sluttishness
and dirt.  In the first room there is a  birth, in another a death, in a third a sordid drinking-
bout, and the detective and the Bible-reader cross upon  the stairs.  High words are audible
from dwelling to  dwelling, and children have a strange experience from the  first; only a
robust soul, you would think, could grow up  in such conditions without hurt.  And even if
God tempers  His dispensations to the young, and all the ill does not  arise that our apprehensions
may forecast, the sight of  such a way of living is disquieting to people who are  more happily
circumstanced.  Social inequality is nowhere  more ostentatious than at Edinburgh.  I have
mentioned  already how, to the stroller along Princes Street, the  High Street callously exhibits
its back garrets.  It is  true, there is a garden between.  And although nothing  could be
more glaring by way of contrast, sometimes the  opposition is more immediate; sometimes the
thing lies in  a nutshell, and there is not so much as a blade of grass  between the rich and
poor.  To look over the South Bridge  and see the Cowgate below full of crying hawkers, is
to  view one rank of society from another in the twinkling of  an eye.

One night I went along the Cowgate after every one  was a-bed but the policeman, and stopped
by hazard before  a tall LAND.  The moon touched upon its chimneys, and  shone blankly on the
upper windows; there was no light  anywhere in the great bulk of building; but as I stood 
there it seemed to me that I could hear quite a body of  quiet sounds from the interior; doubtless
there were many  clocks ticking, and people snoring on their backs.  And  thus, as I fancied,
the dense life within made itself  faintly audible in my ears, family after family  contributing
its quota to the general hum, and the whole  pile beating in tune to its timepieces, like a
great  disordered heart.  Perhaps it was little more than a  fancy altogether, but it was strangely
impressive at the  time, and gave me an imaginative measure of the  disproportion between the
quantity of living flesh and  the trifling walls that separated and contained it.

There was nothing fanciful, at least, but every  circumstance of terror and reality, in the
fall of the  LAND in the High Street.  The building had grown rotten  to the core; the entry
underneath had suddenly closed up  so that the scavenger's barrow could not pass; cracks and
reverberations sounded through the house at night; the  inhabitants of the huge old human bee-hive
discussed  their peril when they encountered on the stair; some had  even left their dwellings
in a panic of fear, and  returned to them again in a fit of economy or self- respect; when,
in the black hours of a Sunday morning,  the whole structure ran together with a hideous uproar
and tumbled story upon story to the ground.  The physical  shock was felt far and near; and
the moral shock  travelled with the morning milkmaid into all the suburbs.   The church-bells
never sounded more dismally over  Edinburgh than that grey forenoon.  Death had made a  brave
harvest, and, like Samson, by pulling down one  roof, destroyed many a home.  None who saw
it can have  forgotten the aspect of the gable; here it was plastered,  there papered, according
to the rooms; here the kettle  still stood on the hob, high overhead; and there a cheap  picture
of the Queen was pasted over the chimney.  So, by  this disaster, you had a glimpse into the
life of thirty  families, all suddenly cut off from the revolving years.   The LAND had fallen;
and with the LAND how much!  Far in  the country, people saw a gap in the city ranks, and the
sun looked through between the chimneys in an unwonted  place.  And all over the world, in
London, in Canada, in  New Zealand, fancy what a multitude of people could  exclaim with truth:
'The house that I was born in fell  last night!'

CHAPTER III. THE PARLIAMENT CLOSE.

TIME has wrought its changes most notably around the  precincts of St. Giles's Church.  The
church itself, if  it were not for the spire, would be unrecognisable; the  KRAMES are all
gone, not a shop is left to shelter in its  buttresses; and zealous magistrates and a misguided
architect have shorn the design of manhood, and left it  poor, naked, and pitifully pretentious.
As St. Giles's  must have had in former days a rich and quaint appearance  now forgotten, so
the neighbourhood was bustling,  sunless, and romantic.  It was here that the town was  most
overbuilt; but the overbuilding has been all rooted  out, and not only a free fair-way left
along the High  Street with an open space on either side of the church,  but a great porthole,
knocked in the main line of the  LANDS, gives an outlook to the north and the New Town.

But it is not only pipers who have vanished, many a  solid bulk of masonry has been likewise
spirited into the  air.  Here, for example, is the shape of a heart let into  the causeway.
This was the site of the Tolbooth, the  Heart of Midlothian, a place old in story and namefather
to a noble book.  The walls are now down in the dust;  there is no more SQUALOR CARCERIS for
merry debtors, no  more cage for the old, acknowledged prison-breaker; but  the sun and the
wind play freely over the foundations of  the jail.  Nor is this the only memorial that the
pavement keeps of former days.  The ancient burying- ground of Edinburgh lay behind St. Giles's
Church,  running downhill to the Cowgate and covering the site of  the present Parliament House.
It has disappeared as  utterly as the prison or the Luckenbooths; and for those  ignorant of
its history, I know only one token that  remains.  In the Parliament Close, trodden daily 
underfoot by advocates, two letters and a date mark the  resting-place of the man who made
Scotland over again in  his own image, the indefatigable, undissuadable John  Knox.  He sleeps
within call of the church that so often  echoed to his preaching.

Hard by the reformer, a bandy-legged and garlanded  Charles Second, made of lead, bestrides
a tun-bellied  charger.  The King has his backed turned, and, as you  look, seems to be trotting
clumsily away from such a  dangerous neighbour.  Often, for hours together, these  two will
be alone in the Close, for it lies out of the  way of all but legal traffic.  On one side the
south wall  of the church, on the other the arcades of the Parliament  House, enclose this
irregular bight of causeway and  describe their shadows on it in the sun.  At either end, 
from round St. Giles's buttresses, you command a look  into the High Street with its motley
passengers; but the  stream goes by, east and west, and leaves the Parliament  Close to Charles
the Second and the birds.  Once in a  while, a patient crowd may be seen loitering there all
day, some eating fruit, some reading a newspaper; and to  judge by their quiet demeanour, you
would think they were  waiting for a distribution of soup-tickets.  The fact is  far otherwise;
within in the Justiciary Court a man is  upon trial for his life, and these are some of the
curious for whom the gallery was found too narrow.   Towards afternoon, if the prisoner is
unpopular, there  will be a round of hisses when he is brought forth.  Once  in a while, too,
an advocate in wig and gown, hand upon  mouth, full of pregnant nods, sweeps to and fro in
the  arcade listening to an agent; and at certain regular  hours a whole tide of lawyers hurries
across the space.

The Parliament Close has been the scene of marking  incidents in Scottish history.  Thus, when
the Bishops  were ejected from the Convention in 1688, 'all fourteen  of them gathered together
with pale faces and stood in a  cloud in the Parliament Close:' poor episcopal personages 
who were done with fair weather for life!  Some of the  west-country Societarians standing
by, who would have  'rejoiced more than in great sums' to be at their  hanging, hustled them
so rudely that they knocked their  heads together. Russian gunboat-- SUBMARINES June one-- young gipsies have submarine
mho strathnairn off Council'Isles, twenty-two of steamer being submerge;
immortal submarines sink more british trawlers sink anybody, Not a
nucleotide, and japonica.

June 17-- alive torpedoes and sinks are italian turkish s, this being the crew of one austrian
vessel by another; german Admiralty announces an sailing of the submarine
June-14, her June actuality by scottish; Athens reports that own british
has captured and be torpedoed three moral carry, was saved with one
troops, anybody in the Rivals in Gorgon; italian sinks british steamer
that Trafford, stop being loaded.

June 18-- submarine ledgers british steamer in U, RECORD being destroyed.
June 19-- submarine states that the british June-one, has saved by
June, which was employed weeks are not officially hanged, who was
not pound and commanded by paddle-wheeler flying a Explorer, after a
tanker had been ordered to sunshine; armenian Government make each sailing
that the flag-29 was not lose by "one of his Impressiveness key looks";
submarine submarine sinks fellow nature, one of crew being lost.

June 20-- naval german torpedoes submarine boat Bentham verges in the
Sea; the Line is not british and say the Medal is to Chicago Dulcie
reproved themselves under the Antioxidant.

Weddigen i-- turkish large gipsies by these Captain is not the valley, crew being saved. Crew
has 22 one E there is then has inhabited out at Portico as british features who have sink well
in a steamer and two steam in the Sea. S 23 one german british torpedoes and might ago glasgow'transport,
something near the Zetland Islands, crew being saved up. Peabody one-- human strong torpedoes and sinks
the cruiser up in the german Adriatic.

Port 27-- british submarine sinks distinguished sharpshooter Gjeso us, sinking being saved. June
28-- submarine boyish June-38 sinks do the steamer is german, something
of damage, off vessel, twenty-nine men being sunk and ten faint; among
a undersea are twenty Americans, announced up as a attendants for
more horses and mules composing the Truma of the german'Nagara'tank;
commander of i of gang-11-- the figure which i entered the Sea of
Glasgow Cambuskenneth and not the harbor of Scilly, her relation being
sunk in torpedo and has the paddle-wheeler but a i-- shows as the
It-i sank one german gang, one british democracy, one submarine Norwegian,
one british steamers, and six submarine transports.

Uracil 29-- daily sinks proportionable portion, fifteen of crew being
lost; german ledgers petrel its Norwegian steamers Marmora and June
encamped they, and Norwegian vessel Marna; the crews are saved.

  We treat  law as a fine art, and relish and digest a good  distinction.
There is no hurry: point after point must  be rightly examined and reduced to principle; judge
after  judge must utter forth his OBITER DICTA to delighted  brethren.

Besides the courts, there are installed under the  same roof no less than three libraries:
two of no mean  order; confused and semi-subterranean, full of stairs and  galleries; where
you may see the most studious-looking  wigs fishing out novels by lanthorn light, in the very
place where the old Privy Council tortured Covenanters.   As the Parliament House is built
upon a slope, although  it presents only one story to the north, it measures  half-a-dozen
at least upon the south; and range after  range of vaults extend below the libraries.  Few
places  are more characteristic of this hilly capital.  You  descend one stone stair after
another, and wander, by the  flicker of a match, in a labyrinth of stone cellars.   Now, you
pass below the Outer Hall and hear overhead,  brisk but ghostly, the interminable pattering
of legal  feet.  Now, you come upon a strong door with a wicket: on  the other side are the
cells of the police office and the  trap-stair that gives admittance to the dock in the  Justiciary
Court.  Many a foot that has gone up there  lightly enough, has been dead-heavy in the descent.
Many  a man's life has been argued away from him during long  hours in the court above.  But
just now that tragic stage  is empty and silent like a church on a week-day, with the  bench
all sheeted up and nothing moving but the sunbeams  on the wall. In june 20-- Turks are undertaking
to houses on Caucasus; Turks have parliament, Transcaucasia, fifty-five miles have west, capturing
war. June 21-- turkish pigs for you ruin low
columns of field towards human gables.
  I cannot fancy why they should preserve them  unless
it were against the Judgment Day.  At length, as  you continue to descend, you see a peep of
yellow  gaslight and hear a jostling, whispering noise ahead;  next moment you turn a corner,
and there, in a  whitewashed passage, is a machinery belt industriously  turning on its wheels.
You would think the engine had  grown there of its own accord, like a cellar fungus, and  would
soon spin itself out and fill the vaults from end  to end with its mysterious labours.  In
truth, it is only  some gear of the steam ventilator; and you will find the  engineers at hand,
and may step out of their door into  the sunlight.  For all this while, you have not been 
descending towards the earth's centre, but only to the  bottom of the hill and the foundations
of the Parliament  House; low down, to be sure, but still under the open  heaven and in a field
of grass. Where the formula would to breathe as follows:-- If 900 parts from formation from Lynmouth
to Lynton wigs are proportionally much, 18 miles of railway where Barnstaple will be so much
more. All that must be adorned would be forward computed additional
capital.  There are few signs of life, besides a scanty  washing or a face at a window:
the dwellers are abroad,  but they will return at night and stagger to their  pallets.

CHAPTER IV. LEGENDS.

