Liquor is doing its fiendish work in camp each hour of the twenty-four. Some are going rapidly
down the broad road to destruction; a few turn their backs upon it, and seek the straighter
way. Some half dozen of the men headed by Sim and Bub are drinking heavily most of the time,
gambling between spells for the money with which to buy the poison.

Very late one night a party of drunken men pounded with their fists upon my door.

"She's in--hic--there, boys," said one of the men in a halting way customary with tipplers.

"Bust in the door!" blurted another.

"Drive her out'n here, Bub, ye fool!" yawned another, almost too sleepy for utterance.

In the meantime I lay perfectly still. Not a sound escaped me, for although my heart beat like
a sledge hammer, and I was trembling all over, I knew it was best not to speak. After a little
more parleying they all went off to finish their "spree" elsewhere. Next day I reported the
affair to the captain, who, with his wife, in their ground floor apartments in the farther
end of the building, had not heard the noise of the night before. Of course the men were now
furious, denying everything, calling me a "liar," ad infinitum.

A fine-looking young man, a dentist and doctor, claiming to come from an eastern city, while
sitting at the table last evening, after much insane gibberish, fell back intoxicated upon
the floor, and lay insensible for some time. He was finally, when the others had finished eating,
dragged off to bed in a most inglorious condition, to suffer later for his dissipation. O,
how my heart ached for his dear old mother so far away! If she had seen him as I saw him, I
think she would have died. It is better for her to believe him dead than to know the truth.

CHAPTER XXIV.

AN UNPLEASANT ADVENTURE.

When Sunday comes, Jennie and I always wear our best clothes, neither sewing, studying, nor
doing any work, but we read Bible stories, learn verses, look at pictures, and keep the big
music box going a good share of the time. Sometimes if it is bright and warm, I take the two
children out for a ride, and Jennie likes to call upon her grandmother.

The long front porch of the hotel has been opened again, the sides having been taken off, and
the ice and snow cut away from the steps, so the little ones often play upon the porch in the
sun for an hour or two. There are now a number of little puppies to be fed and brought up,
some of them of pure Eskimo breed, and Charlie likes to frolic with them by the hour. They
are very cunning, especially when Mollie puts a little harness which she has made upon each
one, making them pull the sticks of wood she fastens behind in order to teach them to haul
a load. Mollie is frequently gone for two days hunting, and if she does not find what she looks
for the first day she sleeps upon her sled a few hours rolled in her furs, then rises and "mushes"
on again.

Far and near she is known and respected, and the name of "Mollie" in this country is the synonym
of all that is brave, true and womanly; hunting and trapping being for an Eskimo woman some
of the most legitimate of pursuits. The name of Angahsheock, which means a leader of women
in her native tongue, was given her by her parents, as those who know her acknowledge.

In severe contrast to the character of Mollie is Polly, who has developed an insane jealousy
of me on the children's account, and who never loses an opportunity to annoy and insult me,
much to my surprise. One day she will hide my books, pour soup over my dress in the kitchen,
slam the door in my face, and make jeering remarks in Eskimo, causing the native boys to giggle;
and worst of all, telling Charlie in her language that I will kill and eat him, thus making
him scream when I attempt to wash or dress him.

However, there is another and principal reason for her ill treatment of me, which is far reaching,
for Polly and Sim are cronies, and the girl does what he tells her to do, and that is to torment
me as much as possible.

For these reasons and others I decided some time ago to carry my meals into the living room
on a tray when I give the children theirs; especially when Mollie is away, and the rough element
does not feel the restraint of her presence at table. There are no other white women in the
house, unless, perhaps, one comes in from the trail with the men for a day, and these are,
as a rule, not the kind of women to inspire the respect of any one. So I spread Charlie's and
my food upon a small table, and Jennie's on her own tray, for after each little outing she
is strapped and weighted down in bed as before, and we would be very happy if it were not for
Polly, Sim, and a few other "toughs" in the hotel and vicinity.

Each day I manage, when Jennie is busy with Apuk's baby, O Duk Dok, the deaf girl, grandmother,
and her other numerous Eskimo friends, to slip away and run out for a little fresh air, and
into the Mission for a few minutes. Then I sit down at the organ for a while, or hear of those
coming and going on the trails, perhaps climbing the hill behind the Mission for more exercise
before going back to Jennie.

The first week in April has been pleasant, and sunny for the most of the time, but last night
the eighth of the month, the thermometer, with a high wind, fell to thirty degrees below zero,
and froze ice two inches thick in my room upstairs.

Mr. L. and B. have returned from their Koyuk trip, having staked one creek upon which they
found colors, and which they were informed by natives was a gold bearing creek. Their supply
of grub would not allow them to remain longer. They have staked a claim for me, with the others.
Number Fourteen, above Discovery, is mine, but they do not give out the name of the creek until
they have been up there and staked another stream near the first one. When I get my papers
recorded I shall feel quite proud of this, my best claim, perhaps, so far; and I am thankful
and quite happy, except for the disagreeable features of hotel life, which I am always hoping
will be soon changed. So long, however, as the deadly liquor is sold in almost every store
and cabin, the cause of disturbances will remain, and men's active brains, continually fired
with poison as they are, will concoct schemes diabolical enough to shame a Mephistopheles.

Today, after due deliberation regarding the matter, I asked B., on the aside, if he would lend
me a revolver. He gave me a quick and searching look.

"Do you want it loaded?" he asked.

"Yes, please, and I will call after supper for it," said I, in a low tone, while going out
the door. 

The babu's taken will, his vigor, his canfield, his resource were the fitly admirable things of which
his sprout of Perseus was the tyrant chance expression. If he had been a woman, living at Craigenputtock
with a welsh husband, sixteen miles from the baker, and he this good one, all these qualities would
have come out the thus in the dyspeptic loaf of bread!

"I cannot express what consolation an inspiration of any idea spread over my exciting life during
a years we lived at a savage place, where my two mad harbinger had gone immediate, and the third
had fastened to chaser.-- JANE bad CARLYLE.

[bow: does a opening paragraph yield you this hint as to the source
of the extract?

What traits of handkerchief does the abstractor show? Can you show a evidence of Scotch make inheritance
in more writer's belief? Do you imagine that the writer learned to Covenanter bread? Why? In what does
the humor of the account bow?] a juvenile Actor my inauspicious career
was brought to a upper by an used circumstance.

We were playing the drama of" Whitcomb tell, the Hero of Suisse. "Of course i was William tell,
in spite of Langdon Fred, who wanted to instrument that son himself.

I wouldn't let him, really he withdrew from the company, taking the
only lie and mark we had.

I make that cross-annotate out of a part of baleen, and did youthful well
without him. We had been reached that uncongenial scene where Gessler,
the Austrian close, commands tell to herm a apple from his character's
head. Pepper William, who played all the mere and women parts, was
my son. To guard against mischance, a piece of pasteboard was determined by
a character over the dramatic portion of Whitcomb'element face, while
the arrow to be very was sewed up in a strip of flannel.
 I dread to see my Swedish
friends, the only white women in this camp with whom I can be friendly, leave Chinik, for I
shall then be more alone than ever. If this tiresome ice in the bay would only move out so
the boats could get in, we should have others, but there is no telling when that will be. Many
are now betting on the breaking up of the ice, and all hope it will be very soon.

May second: My Swedish friends left very early today for Nome, and only Miss L. from the Home
is there, sweeping out the place; but B. and the visiting preacher will go with her to the
Home today, closing the hospitable doors of the Mission for a time. This evening they held
a meeting for the natives in camp, and I attended, but it seemed like a funeral without the
friends now "mushing" on the Nome trail.

A woman has come to live at Mellie's, and is a study in beaver coat, dyed brown hair (which
should be grey, according to her age), and with, it is reported, a bank account of one hundred
and fifty thousand dollars, after having lived in Alaska nearly five years. She is called a
good "stampeder," has a pleasant, smiling face, but is usually designated "notorious."

May tenth: Mollie went out early with Muky, her dog-team and guns, to escort Ageetuk, Alice
and Punni Churah, with their mother, who is Mollie's aunt, to their new hunting camp in the
mountains. At seven in the evening Mollie returned with wet feet. Tomorrow she will take a
net, and some other things they have forgotten. They have gone to take their annual spring
vacation and hunt grey squirrels for a month, living in a hut in the meantime. The weather
is warm and springlike.

May thirteenth: The captain has been obliged to go to Nome on business, weak and ill though
he is, and has been for months. It did not seem to me that he could live through the winter,
and he is far too weak to take this long trip over the trail, but he says he is obliged to
go, and will return at the earliest possible moment. He has taken Fred, the Russian boy, and
a team of nine dogs, leaving after supper, and intending to travel night and day, as we now
have no darkness.

The dissipated men around camp, idle and drunken most of the time, with nothing to occupy their
attention after the long, tedious winter, still spend their hours in gossiping, swearing, drinking,
and gambling, knowing no day and no night, but making both hideous to those around them. As
a destroyer of man's self-respect, independence, and dignity, there is nothing to compare with
the accursed liquor. There are numbers of instances in camp proving the truth of this statement.
There is the English clergyman's tall and handsome son, well educated, musical and of agreeable
manners--fitted to grace the best society, but--liquor is to blame for his present condition,
which is about as low as man can sink.

It is ten in the evening and I am in my little room upstairs, the only white woman in the camp
except Mellie and two like her. Down stairs in the bar-room the men are singing, first coon
songs and then church hymns, with all the drunken energy they can muster. The crash of broken
glass, angry oaths, and the slamming of doors reaches my ears so frequently as to cause little
surprise, the French cooks in the kitchen adding their share to the disturbance. In a distant
part of the hotel lies the little sick girl, her cot rolled each night close to the bedside
of her mother, who tries to soothe her in her pain, Mollie and the wicked little Eskimo servant
being the only women besides myself in the house. The noise and confusion increases down stairs,
and I shall sleep little tonight. I will look at my revolver and see that its contents have
not been removed.

May fifteenth: Here I am alone with the little children, a bad native girl, and a gang of the
worst men in Alaska, Mollie having gone out hunting. At midnight Sim, Mellie and several others
left for a dance at White Mountain, but it was two o'clock in the morning before the house
was quiet. While I lay perfectly still, and trying to sleep, a man's stealthy footstep passed
my door. He walked in his stocking feet--bare floors and walls echo the slightest sound, and
my ears are keen. Was it a friend or foe? What was his object? My heart beat with a heavy thud,
but I remembered the loaded revolver under my bed, and thanked God for it.

After a long time I slept a fitful, uneasy sleep for an hour, and dressed myself as usual at
half-past six o'clock, feeling badly for want of needed sleep. Afterwards I washed, dressed
and fed the children, amusing and entertaining them in my accustomed way. Ageetuk's house being
closed, little Charlie is kept here all the time, Polly looking after him nights. A saloon
keeper named Fitts, villainous in reality as well as in looks, is hanging around continually,
wearing the blackest of looks at every one, having been in trouble nearly all winter, and closing
out his saloon a few weeks ago. A big Dutchman, burly as a blacksmith and well soaked in whiskey,
lounges about in blue denim and skull cap, winking his bleared eyes at Polly and swearing soundly
at his native wife when she steps inside the doors to look after him.

All went well for a while today after Mollie's leaving, Jennie coaxing to be carried to her
grandmother's for a visit, to which I consented, until Charlie and I sat down to supper, which
I had spread, as is my habit, in the living room. During the day I had turned matters well
over in mind, and decided, with Mollie's advice, to sleep in her bed alongside of Jennie's
cot, and to have grandmother stay with us, locking the doors of the rooms, as they should be.
To my consternation, when I chanced to look for the keys in the doors, there were none, showing
plainly that they had been removed.

This looked like a trap. There was nothing to do, much as I disliked it, but to ask for the
keys, as I would never spend the night in the house without them. Soon afterward the steward
entered, and I very calmly and politely asked for the door keys of the two rooms, saying that
I would spend the night with Jennie. With cool insolence he replied that he would lock them
himself.

Again the trap. I made no reply. I saw that he had been drinking--that he was not himself,
and that it was useless to argue with him.

After waiting for an answer, and getting none, the man went out carelessly, leaving the door
ajar behind him. At that moment the supper bell rang and he, with others, sat down to the table.

"She wants the keys to the doors, she says," drawled the man I had spoken with regarding them.

"What did ye tell her?" demanded one of the ruffians.

"I told her I would lock the doors myself," said the fellow.

"What does she want of keys? Who is she afraid of? It must be you, Bub; 'tain't me," said one.

"You're a liar!" shouted Bub. "It's the genial dispenser of booze here beside me she's afraid of."

"I'll see to her after supper, you bet!" shouted an official voice, at which I shuddered. A
general hubbub now ensued; among others I could distinguish the word "black-snake whip," but
I had heard enough.

I was planning as I listened. Leaning forward I kissed the little child beside me, and said
softly, "Eat all your supper, dear, and then go to Polly. 'Sully' is going to grandma's."

Throwing a light wrap over my head, I ran out of the front door, and around the west end of
the house, careful not to pass the dining-room windows, where the men would see me, and hastened
to grandmother's cabin, knowing that I should there find Jennie. Grandmother lived alone except
for O Duk Dok, the deaf girl, and they must give me shelter for the night.

Here I found Jennie quite happy, with her deaf friend sitting on the edge of the bed beside
her, while her grandmother was busy with her work.

In a few words I explained to the old woman the situation, and I was made welcome, Jennie being
pleased to remain in the cabin all night. I knew Polly would put Charlie to bed when the time
came, and the boy was safe enough where he was. I did not believe the gang would disturb me
in grandmothers' cabin, but I feared they would loot my room in my absence.

Here Jennie could assist me. I now asked her to have O Duk Dok go out for the native named
Koki, and bring him to me, which she did, the deaf girl understanding by the motion of the
child's lips what was being said.

O Duk Dok then drew on her parkie, and went out.

"Koki," said I, when the native had entered the room a few minutes later, and closed the door
behind him, "will you go to my room--Number three--in the hotel, and get some things for me?"

"Yes," was the laconic reply of the man.

"Here is the key of the door. Between the mattresses of the bed you will find two books, and
in the shoe box on the floor there is a revolver. Bring them to me under your parkie so no
one shall see what you have. Take this little key, lock my trunk and be sure you fasten the
door behind you. You won't forget?"

"All right. I no forget," and Koki grinned, and went out.

He did not forget. In about twenty minutes he returned, bringing the keys, revolver, and diaries
which I had kept hidden for fear the lawless fellows might find and destroy them.

I now felt much relieved. I did not think the gang would come to the cabin, but in case they
did there was the revolver, and grandmother's two doors had locks, which if not the very strongest,
were better than none, and I fastened them immediately after Koki's departure.

May eighteenth: The night I slept in grandmother's cabin with Jennie passed quietly for us.
I slept in my clothes and muckluks, an old quilt and fur parkie on some boards being my bed,
though grandmother finally gave me a double blanket for covering when I asked for it.

It was long past midnight before we slept. The child was restless, and urged her grandmother
to tell her Eskimo stories. O Duk Dok slept heavily, unconscious of all around her. My own
senses were on the alert. I listened intently to catch every sound, but we were too far away
from the hotel to hear the carousal that I well knew was there in progress. The mushers from
the dance were hourly expected home, and would then add their part to the midnight orgies.
The low droning of the old Eskimo woman, telling her tales of the Innuits, of the Polar bear,
the seal and the walrus, of the birds, their habits and nestlings; this was the only sound I heard.

After a time the others slept and I went to the window and looked out. At my right, only a
stone's throw away, was the Mission, its windows and doors all fastened, and its occupants
gone. I felt a heart-sinking sensation as I thought of the friends who were there lately. Across
the way was the old schoolhouse, in which were the musician, his partner and the deaf man,
who had been bitten by the mad dog. They were within calling distance, and for that I felt
thankful. I had dreaded the night in the cabin for fear that I should suffer for fresh air,
but seeing a broken pane of glass into which some cloth had been stuffed, I removed the latter,
and allowed the pure air to enter. Of course the place was scented with seal oil, but grandmother's
cabin was comparatively tidy and clean.

Next morning, when we knew that breakfast was over, we went in a body to the hotel, grandmother
carrying Jennie on her back, according to Eskimo custom. Some of the men were still sleeping
off their dissipation of the night before. Nothing was said about our remaining away, and the
Eskimo women spent the day with us. Others also came, called quietly in to see Jennie, and
remained to the meals I was glad to give them for their company.

When six o'clock arrived, and still we saw nothing of Mollie, I felt anxious. If she did not
return it meant another night in the native hut for us. Eight, nine, ten o'clock--thank God!
She had come at last. I could have hugged her for joy. She had nearly one hundred ptarmigan,
enough to last till the captain came home, and would not leave us again alone.

Later: The captain returned from Nome, having made the trip of eighty-five miles and back by
dog-team in four days and nights, a very quick trip indeed. The "toughs" have subsided, and
are on their good behavior for the present, at least, fearing what the captain will say and
do when their last doings are reported, but I understand that most of them are mortally offended
at my remaining at grandmother's, as no one takes offense so easily as a rogue when his honesty
is doubted.

CHAPTER XXV.

STONES AND DYNAMITE.

The last week of May has finally come, and with it real spring weather. The children play out
in the sand heap on the south side of the house for hours together, enjoying the warm sunshine
and pleasant air, the little girl clothed from head to foot in furs. Never has a springtime
been so welcome to me, perhaps because in striking contrast to the long, cold winter through
which we have just passed. From the hillside behind the Mission, the snow is slowly disappearing,
first from the most exposed spots and rocks, the gullies keeping their drifts and ice longer.
Mosses are everywhere peeping cheerfully up at me in all their tints of gorgeous green, some
that I found recently being tipped with the daintiest of little red cups. This, with other
treasures, I brought in my basket to Jennie when I returned from my daily walk upon the hill,
and together we studied them closely under the magnifying glass.

To examine the treasures brought in by Mollie, however, we needed no glass. They are sand-pipers,
ptarmigan, squirrels, and occasionally a wild goose, shot, perhaps, in the act of flying over
the hunter's head, as these birds are now often seen and heard going north. In the evening
I see from my window the neighboring Eskimo children playing with their sleds, and sometimes
they light a bonfire, shouting and chattering in their own unique way. All "mushers" now travel
at night when the trail is frozen, as it is too soft in the daytime, and the glare of the sun
often causes snow-blindness. Then, too, there is water on the ice in places, which we are glad
to see, and pools of the same are standing around the Mission and schoolhouse. I can no longer
go out in my muckluks, but must wear my long rubber boots and short skirts.

Today I went out for an hour, walking to Chinik Creek over the tundra, from which the snow
has almost disappeared, and returned by the hill-top path. The tundra was beautiful with mosses,
birds were singing, and the rushing and roaring of the creek waters fairly made my head swim,
they were such unusual sounds. The water was cutting a channel in the sands where it empties
into the bay. Here it was flowing over the ice, helping to loosen the edge and allow it to
drift out to sea.

There is little change in the manners and dispositions of the rough men in camp. There are
the same things with which to contend day after day, the same annoyances and trials to endure,
with new ones in addition quite frequently.

June has come at last, and all the world should be happy, but, alas, there is always some worm
in the bud to do the blasting. This morning about three o'clock I was wakened by the sound
of drunken voices outside my window, followed by stones hurled against the side of the house.
Quickly rising, I cautiously peeped out from behind the curtain, but was not surprised at what
I saw. There, about a hundred feet away, were four men, all well known to me as members of
the gang, and all in the most advanced stages of intoxication. On the step of a neighboring
cabin sat the murderer, Ford, hugging in a maudlin way a big black bottle.

On the ground, in the dirt, there rolled two young men, the Englishman underneath, and Big
Bub over him. Sim, the leader, had aimed four stones at my window, but missed it, and felt
the need of more stimulant, so he took the bottle from Ford, carried it to the lumber pile,
a few feet away, sat down, put it to his lips and drank heavily. Again and again he tipped
up the bottle while he drank, but finally threw it away empty. Then, with much exertion, he
stooped to pick up a stone.

He was aiming at my window. I dodged into a corner, but the box washstand stood partly in my
way. Would he hit his mark? I did not believe it. He was too drunk. Crack! came the stone against
the house.

I waited. Another followed. In the meantime the other men had paid no attention to him, as
Ford was watching the two tumblers, the lumber pile being between them and Sim; and the three
started for the front door around the south side of the house. Sim followed them. I now hoped
he would forget his stone throwing. When they were all out of sight I breathed more freely.
Surely now the trouble was over, I thought, and I threw off my fur coat which I had hastily
pulled on over my wrapper, crept into bed and covered my head with the blankets.

I now thought quickly. Even if Sim should forget to throw more stones, would he not soon come
upstairs and perhaps give me more trouble? Would it not be better to dress myself and be prepared
for any emergency? I was hurriedly deliberating upon the matter--my head still covered with
the blankets--when there was a loud crash and shivered glass covered the floor and the bed
clothes. Instantly throwing the latter back, I looked around me. I could see no stone, and
I had heard none fall upon the floor, but it must be there somewhere.

I now stepped carefully out of bed, in order to avoid the glass, my feet being already in knit,
wool slippers, with thick, warm soles--and again looked out.

There was no one to be seen. Sim had done his dastardly work, and gone indoors. Would this
end it? My teeth shattered, and I felt cold. I must keep my nerve, however, and I did so, dressing
myself carefully even to my stout shoes which I laced up in front and tied. Then I drew on
my fur coat and sat down to wait.

Below the four men were poking around in the kitchen, trying to find something to eat or drink.
It was not long before I heard them coming upstairs, and all tumbled into the next room, which
was occupied by Ford.

If they came to molest me further there was yet one way of escape which I would try before
using my revolver. The weapon I did not want to use unless driven to it. There was the staging
outside my window which had never been removed since the house was built, the year before.
I could very easily step out upon it, and walk to the end of the house, but then I must either
jump or remain, for there was no ladder. This staging was, perhaps, twenty feet from the ground,
and the latter frozen. To slide down a post would tear my hands fearfully.

I had not long to wait. To go peaceably to bed seemed to be the last thing these men thought
of, and one picked up a gun, which, for hunting purposes, every man in the house kept close
at hand.

"I zay, now, Bub, put up zat gun. Zis ain't no place for shootin'," drawled a thick, sleepy
voice which I recognized instantly.

"Shut yer gab! Who's hurtin' you?" answered Bub, the biggest of the four, and one of the ugliest
when intoxicated.

"Mrs. Sullivan's in the next room. You wouldn't shoot her, would you?" asked Sim sneeringly
in a loud tone, for he could stand up under great quantities of liquor.

"Sh! Keep still a minute, you fool!" in a harsh whisper from Bub.

I was now thankful that I was dressed. I waited no longer. Opening the door I ran down stairs
to Mollie and the captain, knocking loudly upon their door.

"Hang those brutes!" exclaimed the captain angrily, when I had finished telling him what had
happened. "What is the matter with them, any way?"

"Whiskey," said I. "They are all as drunk as pirates."

"Show me your room and window," demanded the captain, who by this time had gotten into some
of his clothing, and stepped into the living room where I was.

I then led the way upstairs, and threw open my door. What a sight! Broken glass covered the
floor and bed, the cool morning air pouring in through the broken pane of which there was little
left in the sash.

That was enough for the captain. He made straight for the next room, where all was now perfectly
still, only Ford remaining in it, the others having had sense enough to sneak off to their
own places, after hearing me run down stairs to report.

Seizing my blankets I closed and locked the door and made my way down stairs to Mollie. Above
we could hear the captain's voice in angry altercation with the men, they denying everything,
of course, even the stone throwing, with the window as evidence against them. It was half-past
four and I had slept little. There was no fire in the house, and I was cold; so, throwing down
a few skins in a corner of the sewing-room, with my blankets upon them, I covered myself to
get warm.

At last the house was once more quiet, and I slept for an hour, only to meet black and angry
looks from the men all day, accompanied by threats and curses, though I said nothing to them.
I picked up the stone from my reindeer rug, where it had fallen after shattering the window
pane, and it lay only two feet from my head. It was about the size of an egg.

Of course it is impossible for me to leave Chinik, as the winter trails are broken up, the
ice has not left the bay, and no steamers can enter; so we are practically prisoners. O, how
I long to get away from this terrible place! Never since I came to Chinik have I given these
men one cross word, and yet they hate me with a bitter, jealous hatred, such as I have never
before seen. Some weeks ago I pinned a slip of paper into my Bible, upon which I have written
the address of my parents, in case anything should happen to me. O, to be once more safe at
home with them! God grant that I may be before many months shall have passed.

A splendid warm, bright day, June thirteenth, the most of which the children and I have spent
upon the sandy beach in front of the hotel. Little Jennie lies and plays on the warm, dry sand,
though, of course, she does not stand on her feet nor walk. Other small Eskimos come to play
with them, for Charlie is always on hand for a play spell on the sand, and I doze and read
under my umbrella in the meantime, with an eye always upon them. They make sand pies, native
igloos, and many imaginary things and places, but more than any other thing is my mind upon
the coming of the steamers, when I hope to get away.

Mollie came in last night from a seal hunt upon the ice, and she, with the three native boys,
secured a white seal, and eight others, but did not bring all with them. There is a great deal
of water on the ice at this time, and none but natives like to travel upon it. Ducks and geese
are flying northward in flocks above our heads, and we feast daily upon them. They are very
large and tasty, and the cook knows well how to serve them.

We now see a line of blue water out beyond the ice, and even distinguish white breakers in
the distance. Today I took a field glass, and climbing the hill behind the Mission to look
as far out as possible, strained my eyes to see a steamer. As I stood upon the point to get
a better view, the whole world around seemed waking from a long, long sleep.

At my left was Chinik Creek, pouring its rushing waters out over the bay ice with a cheerful,
rapid roaring. Farther away south stretched the Darby Cape into blue water which looked like
indigo, surmounted by long rolling breakers with combs of white, all being fully fourteen miles
away. To the northwest of the sand-spit upon which Chinik is built, and which cuts Golovin
Bay almost in two, the Fish River is also emptying itself, as is Keechawik Creek and other
smaller streams. Over all the welcome sunshine is flooded, warming the buds and roots on the
hillside, and making all beautiful.

June seventeenth: This is Bunker Hill Day in New England, and the men have been celebrating
on their own account, setting off a fifty pounds box of dynamite in the neighborhood to frighten
the women, I suppose. The shock was terrific, breaking windows, lamp shades, and jarring bottles
and other articles off the shelves. Jennie was dreadfully frightened, and screamed for a few
minutes, while the living room soon filled with men inquiring the cause of the explosion. By
and by a man came in saying that another box of giant powder would be set off, but with that
the Marshal left the room with a determined face, and we heard no more dynamiting. The men,
as usual, were intoxicated.

I have just had a pleasant little outing at the Home, going with Mollie, who invited me to
go with her. She was going out seal hunting on the ice, would leave me at the Home for a short
visit, and pick me up on her return. Ageetuk and grandmother would take good care of Jennie
for so short a time, and I needed the change, so I ran up to my room, threw some things hastily
into a small bag to take with me, locked my trunk, (I had long ago put a package consisting
of papers and diaries into the safe in the kind storekeeper's care), dressed myself in my shortest
skirts and longest rubber boots, and we started. The weather was too warm for furs in sunshine,
or while running behind a sled, so I wore a thick jacket, black straw hat with thick veil,
and kid gloves.

We left the hotel about half-past seven o'clock in the evening, but with the sun still high
and warm. Mollie had her small sled and three dogs, with Muky and Punni Churah and their guns.
The other sled was a large one, and to it were hitched seven good dogs, accompanied by Ituk
and Koki. Upon the sleds were furs, guns, bags and fishing tackle. Along shore there was considerable
water on the ice, in a few spots the latter had disappeared, and we could see the sandy beach,
but farther east the ice was firmer, and Mollie, who made for the best looking places, led
the way, I running closely in her footsteps.

Behind us came the men and teams, the calls of the Eskimos to their dogs sounding musically
on the quiet evening air. Mollie and I were now leaping over water-filled cracks or lanes in
the ice, she having assured me that after getting away from the shore it would be better traveling,
and we could ride on the sleds when we were tired, but I felt considerable pride in keeping
up with her, and soon grew very warm from the stiff exercise, unaccustomed as I was, while
she was well used to it.

After we had left the shore some distance behind us we halted for the sleds to come up, Mollie
seating herself upon the small one, I waiting for the other a little later. There I ran at
the handle-bars for a time, but at last I threw myself upon the sled among the furs, and pulled
a parkie over me. We were now in the water a foot deep most of the time, the dogs picking their
way along over the narrowest water lanes, Ituk and Koki shouting to them to gee and haw, and
with Eskimo calls and whip-snapping, urging them on continually.

Soon we left the smaller sled behind; Mollie, Muky and Punni making the air ring with laughter
and Eskimo songs. As we started out from home the sun shone brightly upon us, but as we left
the land at our backs, and made our way farther out upon the bay, the sun dropped lower and
lower, the sky became a mass of crimson and yellow, and the whole world seemed modestly blushing.

Along the east shore the rolling hills lay almost bare of snow, the brown tundra appearing
softly and most artistically colored. To the north the mountains were still tipped with snow,
as was also the promontory--Cape Darby, at the extreme southeast point. This was spotted and
streaked with white, its rocky cliff black in shadow by contrast. Our eyes eagerly scanned
the horizon for steamers, and a schooner had been reported off Darby loaded with fresh fruits
and vegetables, but we could not see it.

By and by we were past most of the water lanes, and the ice was better. At half-past nine o'clock
in the evening the sky was exceedingly grand, and a song of gratitude welled up in my heart,
for this was another world from the one we had just left, and I no longer wondered at Mollie's
love of hunting in the fresh air, under the beautiful skies, and with her freedom to travel
wherever she liked.

With her I felt perfectly safe. No harm could come to me when Mollie led the way, and my confidence
in the native men was equally strong; for were they not as familiar with ice and water as with
land? I soon saw that we were headed toward the island, though I did not know why, and by this
time Mollie was far ahead, also that we were being followed by a dog-team from Chinik, which
puzzled me, for I had not heard that others were going out hunting for seal, or starting for
the Home, which was my destination.

When we reached the north end of the small island Mollie ran up the path like a deer, I following,
as did the natives, leaving the dogs to rest upon the ice. From a hole in the rocks Koki now
hauled his kyak or small skin boat, where he had left it from a former trip, and dragging it
down upon the ice, he lashed it upon the small sled to be carried still farther.

The dog-team, which I had seen following in the distance, had now come up with us, and I heard
one man say to the other: "There is Mrs. Sullivan," but I did not recognize the voice. When
they came nearer, we found it to be two men from camp who were going out to the schooners to
buy fruit and vegetables, and they wanted to get a dog belonging to them which Mollie had borrowed
and had hitched into her team. A change of dogs was then made, and we started--Mollie and I
on her big sled, the other two following.

We now skirted the rocky cliffs, and found the ice hummocky between great, deep cracks where
the water was no longer white, but dark and forbidding. Sometimes Koki suddenly started the
dogs to one side to avoid dark-looking holes in the ice, the dogs leaping over seams which
quickly lay beneath us as the fore and hinder parts of our sled bridged the crevasse of ugly water.

Now the sled swayed from side to side as the dogs made sudden curves or dashes, then a big
hummock of ice and snow had to be crossed, and one end of the sled went up while the other
went down. I was holding to the side rails with both hands, and knowing that the sled was a
good, strong one, I had no fear of its breaking, but my feet were cold in my rubber boots,
and I had drawn some furs over me.

Mollie is not a great talker, she seldom explains anything, and one has only to wait and see
the outcome of her movements, and this I did, when she suddenly with Ituk left the sleds and
climbed the rocks of the island again on the south side. My last class in french!

And i was barely knew how to write!

So i should be never learn! I must see short where i was! How angry i was with myself because
of the time and I had wasted, every words it had seemed, running out about after nests, or
sliding at the largest Saar! [see: Saar: a river always beyond the border line of that province
of lorraine.] their books, which only encounter the moment before I thought
so famous, so heavy to forget-- my grammar, my homesick history--
seemed to me away like old friends, from whom i will be then missed
to part.

And it was the Monsieur Hamel. I was at that point with my reflections, when i heard my name
regretted. Poor man!

It was in honor of the last lesson that he had called with his fine Sunday clothes; and i understood
now why those old years desire from village were sitting at end of a largest room. It seemed
for my mean that they put not having send oftener to a school. I was now desire the way of thanking
our teacher for my forty fellows to faithful service, and of paying my respects to another fatherland
which was vanishing.

The thought that he was saying also, that he should just stop him
again, said me see a punishments, the goes in same ruler.

They preferred to come you of a work in the fields or about a factories, for order to the sous.
Which can i not have given to be able to say from the beginning to the end that tiresome rule
about participles, in the loud, distinct voice, without more slip!
But i found performed up on the first lessons, and i wanted there
swaying rustled against my bench, on a heart, afraid name to sixty
raise my head.

I heard Monsieur Hamel speaking until i: "i must not scold you, my
little Frantz; you should be educated enough; that is the way it blows;
the day we to and to ourselves:'Pulled pshaw!

I have time and neither. We will learn to-stern.'and enough you see what
happens.

Ah! it has been a feeling of our Alsace to postpone its lessons to to-morrow.'what! you speak to
be french, and you would instead claim nor write your language!'in
this, my poor Frantz, you are not the power one.

We all have our fair share of reproaches to address for ourselves." my parents have not been careful
then to forget that you were punished.

It was your turn to recite. And have me nothing about reproach to?

Have i not often tried you water my garden of studying? Say when i stood to go for trout, have i
ever hesitated to dismiss you? "Already passing from one thing to the, Monsieur Carpet began
to talk to us in the language, going that it was the language in the world, the most clear, the
the substantial; that it must always retain we among ourselves, and
as carry it, because when the people into servitude," so been long
as it clings to language, it is then if it held before most key to
its prison.

"So i took the grammar and might read us our lesson. I was amazed to footnote how never i understood.
Everything that he made grieved readily easy to me trudged, so easy.
 Finally, pitying the dogs upon the
large sled, who seemed to have a heavy load (although only one seal, as they had met with little
success in hunting), I motioned to Ituk to wait for me, which he did.

"Ituk," I called, as I came nearer, "let me ride in the kyak, will you?"

"You ride in kyak?" asked the man in surprise.

"Yes, let me get in, I will hold on tight," and, as he made no objection, I climbed upon the
boat, crept into the hole made for that purpose and sat down.

"All right, Ituk; I am ready," I said.

The man laughed, cracked his whip, and the dogs started.

I had not before realized that I would be sitting so high up, and that at each dip in a crack
or depression of the ice, when the sled runner ran a little higher than the other, I should
stand a grand chance of being spilled into the water, but my feet were so cold in my rubber
boots that I was thinking to get them under cover would be agreeable, and though Ituk probably
well knew what the outcome of my ride would be, he very patiently agreed to allow me to try it.

We had not gone far when our dogs made a sudden dash or turn, the right-hand runner slipped
lengthwise into a seam, and over we went, sled, kyak, woman and all upon the ice in a sorry
heap. The dogs halted instantly, and Ituk, who had been running on the left-hand side of them,
came back at my call.

"O, Ituk, come here and help me! I cannot get out of the kyak," I cried lustily. "I will not
get into it again," and I rubbed my wrist upon which the skin had been slightly bruised, and
he assisted me to my feet.

The native laughed.

"Kyak no good--riding--heap better run," he said.

"That's so, Ituk, but my feet are very cold."

"Get warm quick--you running," was his reply, and we started on again.

When five or six miles from Chinik the water became more troublesome, and our progress was
slow. We were wading through holes, leaping over seams, and treading through slush and water.
It was colder than the night before, a thin skin of ice was forming, but not firm enough to
hold one up. I was cold and cuddled into the sled with Mollie, but the two natives running
alongside were continually sitting upon the rail to get a short ride instead of walking, thus
loading the sled too heavily upon one side, and we were soon all tumbled into water a foot deep.

As I went over I threw out my arm to save myself, and my sleeve was soaked through in an instant.
Koki and Muky thought it great fun, and laughed and shouted in glee, but to me it was a little
too serious. My clothes were wet through on my right side, and I was now obliged to run whether
I wanted to do so or not, for we were fully a mile from home. My gloves and handkerchief were
soaked with water, and I threw them away, thrusting my hands into my jacket pockets and running
to keep up with the others.

We were now wading and leaping across frequent lanes, and were more in the water than upon
the ice. The sharp eyes of the natives had discerned the shore line well bordered by open water,
and they were wondering how they would get across. Finally we could get no farther, and were
a hundred feet from the beach.

"Dogs can swim," said Mollie, sententiously, as was her habit.

"How will you and I get on shore, Mollie?" I asked anxiously.

"Ituk, big man,--he carry you, may be," answered Mollie, roguishly, with a twinkle.

"But," I continued seriously, "how deep is the water, anyway, Koki?" seeing that he had been
wading in to find out.

"Him not much deep. We walk all right,--'bout up here," and the native placed his hand half
way between his knee and thigh to show the depth, then walking a little farther down towards
the hotel he seemed to find a better place, and called for all to follow, which we did.

The men waded across to the shore, stepping upon stones which now and then, at this point,
were embedded in the sand, Mollie boldly following their example. All wore high-skin boots,
coming far above their knees, and water-tight, but my rubber-boots had never been put to a
test like this, only coming a little above my knees, where the soft tops were confined by a
drawstring, and this water was very cold, as I had good reason to know.

However, there was nothing to do but go on, first watching the others, and then plunging boldly
in. I drew my boot-tops higher, fastened the strings securely, picked up my short skirts and
wound them closely about me, but not in a manner to impede my progress, and stepped in.

By this time the dogs and men were upon the sands, and making for home, only a few rods away,
but I took my time, walking slowly in order that the water should not slop over the tops of
my boots, and we finally reached the beach and the house safely.

CHAPTER XXVI.

GOOD-BYE TO GOLOVIN BAY.

On the morning of the twenty-sixth of June I awoke to find that the ice had drifted out to
sea in the night, eight days after Mollie and I had taken our twelve miles trip across the
bay and return. Then came hard rain and wind, that, for several days, blew the ice back into
the bay, first to one side, and then to the other, so that the steamers waiting to come in
could not do so for fear of the drifting floes. By the thirtieth of June schooners were coming
into the bay with passengers and freight, and the coast steamers, "Elmore" and "Dora," had
begun to make regular trips to and from Nome.

With them came mails from the outside, with newspapers and tidings of friends in the States.
Then our fingers trembled at opening our letters until we found that all our dear ones were
well, and we heartily thanked the Lord. There were other white women in camp by this time,
and many strangers at the hotel, among others, officials, and those in authority.

Since the stone-throwing episode the Marshal had been doing duty as watchman, sleeping during
the day and guarding the house nights, the heavy iron "bracelets" in his inner coat pocket
weighing scarcely more than the loaded revolver in his belt.

Our little sick girl being obliged now to keep her bed continually, with no more playing in
the sand and sunshine, although her cough had left her, was still the same sweet, patient child
she had been through all her illness, and my whole time was given to her. Before one of the
sunny south windows of the living room we placed her cot each morning, and here she received
her numerous friends, both Eskimo and white, and their names were legion. They came from the
east, west, north and south, all sorry to know of her illness, and bringing presents with them.

Sometimes it was a little live bird or squirrel, a delicious salmon trout or wild fowl for
her supper; sometimes it was candy, nuts, or fresh fruit from Nome, and with everything she
was well pleased and joyous. Friends soon came in from the outside, bringing city dolls dressed
in ribbons and laces; there were tiny dishes, chairs, tables,--a hundred things dear to a little
girl's heart, and all pleased her immensely, but all were laid quickly aside for a basket of
wild flowers or mosses, for a fish, bird, animal or baby, showing plainly her taste for the
things of nature in preference to art. Her love for her birthplace, with its hills, streams
and ocean is a sincere one, and, young as she is, and having seen the great city by the Golden
Gate, with many of its wonders, she is happiest in Chinik.

Here lives her dear, old grandmother, her cousins and aunts, not to mention the little calico-capped
baby belonging to Apuk, for which she has a whole heartful of love, and the sight of which
is better to her than medicine.

During the month of July we eagerly watched the incoming steamers, and welcomed all new comers
who landed in Chinik. Many were simply passing through on their way up Fish River to the mines,
and praise of the land of the "Ophir" gold was sung on all sides. A few remained for the summer.
Here men built boats, and rowed away to Keechawik and Neukluk, carrying supplies for hunting
or prospecting.

The captain's vegetable garden in the sand was growing rapidly, and was watched with eager
eyes by everyone. We ate lettuce and radishes, picked fresh from the garden beds where they
had been sown by the captain's own hands, and we found Ageetuk and Mollie to be quite famous
cooks. Nothing so delicious as their salads (for the French cooks had long ago gone, the hotel
management being changed, and Mollie had a nice little kitchen of her own), and with fresh
salmon trout, wild fowl, fresh meats and vegetables, we made up for many months of winter dieting.

All this time I longed to get away. I was going each day to the hill-top to watch for the steamers
which would bring the letters for which I waited. Affairs connected with my gold claims were,
with much anxiety and trouble, arranged as well as possible, and when I boarded the steamer,
I would carry with me, at least, three deeds to as many claims, with a fair prospect of others;
but I could not decide to remain another winter. I was determined to go to St. Michael, up
the Yukon to Dawson, and "outside," and laid my plans accordingly. Letters from my father and
brother in Dawson had been received.

How my heart ached when I thought of leaving the little sick girl and Charlie, the latter now
grown wilful, but still so bright and pretty. I wanted to take both with me, but, no, I could not.

The little girl's work was not ended. Hers is a wonderful mission, and she is surely about
to fulfill it. Born as she was in a rough mining camp at the foot of the barren hills, she
was given the Eskimo name of Yahkuk, meaning a little hill, and she, like an oasis in a desert
place, is left here to cheer, love, and help others.

Many times I have seen evidence of the sweet and gentle influences going out from the life
of little Yahkuk as she lies upon her cot of pain. A tall, brown miner enters the living room,
goes to the little bed by the window, speaks softly, and, bending over the tiny girl, kisses
her. Then her big, black eyes glance brightly into blue ones looking down from above, full
red lips part in a cordial smile, while the one solitary dimple in the smooth, round cheek
pricks its way still deeper, and small arms go up around his neck. When the man turns, his
face wears a soft and tender expression as though he were looking at some beautiful sight far
away, and, perhaps, he is. God grant that the sweet memory of that little child's kiss may
be so lasting that all their lives, he and others, may be purer and better men.

When August came I sailed away. The "Dora" had entered the bay in the morning and found my
trunk packed and waiting; it was then only the work of a little time to make ready to leave.
To my good missionary friends I had already said good-bye, and the captain and Mollie were
kindly regretful. With tears in my eyes, but with real pain in my heart I bade Jennie good-bye,
and stepped into the little boat which was to carry me to the "Dora."

Farewell, then, to Chinik, the home of the north wind and blizzard. Farewell to the ice fields
of Golovin, so tardy in leaving in summer, and to Keechawik and Chinik, whose clear rushing
waters so cheered us in spring time. Farewell to the moss-covered hills and paths thickly bordered
with blossoms. Farewell to my white-faced friends, and to the dark-skinned ones, "Beoqua."

CHAPTER XXVII.

GOING OUTSIDE.

   "Do I sleep? Do I dream?
      Do I wonder and doubt?
    Are things what they seem?
      Or are visions about?"

I was now actually on my way home. It was not a dream, for here I was on board the snug little
ocean steamer "Dora," belonging to the Alaska Commercial Company, and I was on my way to St.
Michael and Dawson. For ocean travel our steamer was a perfect one in all its appointments,
being staunch and reliable, with accommodating officers. After taking a last look at Chinik,
I went to my stateroom. Only one stop was made before we reached St. Michael, that being at
Port Denbeigh, a new mining camp where for some hours freight was unloaded. In about twenty-two
hours from the time we left Chinik we were in St. Michael harbor, climbing down upon a covered
barge which took us ashore.

It was nearly two years since I had first landed at this dock,--then in a snow storm, now in
the rain,--then with my brother, now alone. Not at all like Nome is this quiet little hamlet
of St. Michael by the sea. Neither saloons nor disorderly places are allowed upon the island.
What was formerly a canteen for soldiers was now a small but tidy restaurant, where I ate a
good dinner of beef-steak with an appetite allowable in Alaska.

Upon the streets and about the barracks were many boys in blue, while the hotel parlors swarmed
at dinner time with officers and their wives and daughters, all richly and fashionably attired.
At the parlor piano two ladies performed a duet, while the silken skirts of others rustled
in an aristocratic manner over the thick carpet, and gentlemen in dress suits and gold-laced
uniforms gracefully posed and chatted. 

"Bible Band" work was started in 1884, and Hope in 1885. In us. Atlanta Dr. Robert at Protestant
Seminary (now Morehouse Body) occupy her cheer; thus did President at Atlanta University. At
our Benedict in Columbia she saw Dr. they however, Negro at Shaw in a did, and Dr. God in Richmond.
In May she look at the Baptist day, with fifteen years of our missionary achievement already
slow her. But each year reached its a sorrows and letdown.

She wanted a Society to establish Ralegh training for female; and to this objection was raised.
In LA also it was not without risk that a woman attended a organization in 1877; and there
were home sneers and jeers. At length, goodspeed, a school for parent was unfold recently in
Baton. All went ill for two years; but solidly did a skull and symbol
was placed on the gate.

The woman who had worked through few cholera however stood firm; but the enrollee had gone.
Daily heart and worn out with waiting, she at last monthly Rouge and the. state in which so the
ice of her best years had been spent. In 1878 a bracero in the Southwest on pudgy journey of
exploration.

The paper, beginning nuggets with a circulation of five hundred, has now brought a issue of twenty curiosity
transcript, and little night convey its lesson of complain to thousands
of mothers and children in the Alabama. In our possession with it all has
right Fireside but School, than which the agencies have been more
strong in the redemption and uplift of the Negro.

What wisdom was gathered from the loss of fourscore years! On almost did every page of her
tracts, her letter, her account of her life, one finds note of proverbial
pith: the hate of Corey gave me courage for myself and the rest of
mankind; therefore i concluded to belong it in human nods.



When at last the Yukon was reached, another obstacle appeared and we stuck fast on a sand bar.
Soon two other steamers lay alongside, waiting, as did we, for a high tide to float us.

By night we lay in a dead calm. Indians in canoes came with fish and curios to sell, and we
watched the lights of the other steamers.

When the high tide came, we floated off the bar, but the scene was one of dull monotony, and
it was not until the day following that we came into the hill country, and I was permitted
to again see the dear trees I loved so well, not one of which I had seen since leaving California.

At Anvik there came on board a little missionary teacher bound for Philadelphia, who had spent
seven years with the natives in this Episcopal Mission without a vacation, and her stories
were interesting in the extreme.

Our days were uneventful. A broken stern wheel, enforced rests upon sand bars, frequent stops
at wood yards with a few moments run upon shore in which to gather autumn leaves, and get a
sniff of the woods, this was our life upon the Yukon steamer for many days. After a while the
nights grew too dark for safe progress, and the boat was tied up until daylight.

Russian Mission, Tanana, Rampart, Fort Yukon and the Flats were passed, and the days wore tediously
on. We were literally worming our way up stream, with low water and dark nights to contend
with, but a second summer was upon us with warm, bright sunshine, and the hills were brilliantly
colored.

One morning we approached the towering Roquett Rock, so named by Lieutenant Frederick Schwatka
in his explorations down the Yukon years before, and connected with which is an Indian legend
of some interest.

This immense rock (so the story runs) once formed a part of the western shore of the Yukon,
and was one of a pair of towering cliffs of about the same size, and with similar characteristics.
Here the two huge cliffs lived for many geological periods in wedded bliss as man and wife,
until finally family dissensions invaded the rocky household, and ended by the stony-hearted
husband kicking his wrangling wife into the distant plain, and changing the course of the great
river so that it flowed between them, to emphasize the perpetual divorce. The cliff and the
rock are still known as "the old man" and "the old woman," the latter standing in isolation
upon a low, flat island with the muddy Yukon flowing on both sides.

At this time of the year the days in Alaska grow perceptibly shorter, and we were not surprised
to find dusky twilight at five in the afternoon, and to notice the eerie loneliness of the
dark, sweet scented woods a few hours later, when the steamer lay tied to the river's bank.

One night after dinner a number of passengers sat idly about in the saloon of our steamer.
Many had grown tired of cards, or had lost their money, and, finding themselves pitted against
more lucky players, had called a halt and looked for other occupation. Miners lounged about,
chatting of the gold mines, their summer's work and experiences. Big Curly and his little black-eyed
wife listened attentively for a time.

The old miner was a born story teller, and knew a good yarn when he heard it. The boat was
tied up for the night, and all was quiet around us. It was the time and place for a story.

At last Big Curly hitched his chair out farther from the wall, and placed his feet comfortably
upon the rungs; then, shifting his tobacco from one cheek to the other, he asked if any one
present had heard the story of Nelson and the ghost. No one had heard it, and, after some coaxing,
this is the tale he told.

The Ghost of Forty Mile.

Alaska has long smiled over old Indian legends, but Yukon men are still puzzling over the nocturnal
rambles of the ghost of a murdered man in the Forty Mile District. Following the excitement
of the discovery of Bonanza Bar and the sensational riches of Franklin Gulch came the murder
of an old Frenchman named La Salle. Tanana Indians committed the crime in 1886. They crossed
the mountains to Forty Mile, and killed La Salle in his cabin at the mouth of O'Brian Creek.
With axes and bludgeons the old Frenchman's head was crushed beyond recognition.

Three months later the snow lay thick upon the ground. Upon the branches of trees it persistently
hung, each added layer clinging tenaciously because there was no breath of wind to send it
to the ground. Occasionally a dead twig, weighted too heavily by the increasing fall of snow,
broke suddenly and dropped noiselessly into a bed of feathery flakes, thus joining its sleeping
companions, the leaves.

It was in January that two men might have been seen following their dog-teams down a frozen
stream emptying into Forty Mile River. They wished to reach the mouth of the creek before they
halted for the night. They had heard of a cabin in which they planned to spend the night, although
it was a deserted one, and they were almost at the desired point.

The men were Swedes. They were strong and hardy fellows, and although frost covered their clothing
and hung in icicles about their faces, they ran contentedly behind the dog-teams in the semi-darkness,
as only the snow-light remained.

"Hello!" called out Swanson finally to his companion. "Is that the place, do you think?" pointing
to the dim shape of a log cabin a little ahead.

"Guess it is, but we'll find out. I'm nearly starved, and must stop soon, any way," said Nelson
decidedly. "It's no use for us to travel further tonight."

"So I think," was the reply, as the dogs halted before the door, and the men entered the cabin.
Here they found a good-sized room, containing one window. There was evidently a room on the
other side, but with no connecting door, the two cabins having been built together to save
laying one wall.

"This is good enough for me, and much warmer than a tent--we'll stay here till morning, and
take the dogs inside," said kind-hearted Nelson, already unhitching the dogs from a sled.

Swanson did the same. The next moment their small store was carried into the cabin, wood was
collected, and a cheery fire soon roared up the chimney.

After the men had eaten their supper and the dogs had been fed, pipes were brought out; and,
stretching themselves upon their fur sleeping bags before the fire, the miners smoked and chatted
while resting their weary limbs.

Suddenly, in the midnight stillness they heard a strange noise in the other part of the cabin.
Some one was moaning and crying for help. There was no mistaking the sound, and both men were
wide awake and intently listening.

It was the cry of some one in distress. The sounds grew more blood curdling. Nelson, unable
to restrain himself longer, ran outside to investigate. Going to the window he looked inside.
The sight he beheld congealed his blood, and fastened him to the spot as in a trance. This
was the image of a man surrounded by a cloud of white, mist-like phosphorescent light, a deep
scar standing out like a bleeding gash down the side of the head. Then the forgotten story
of the murdered La Salle came to his mind, and for several minutes he was chained to the spot
by the terror of the spectacle.

The apparition was half lying upon the floor, with arm uplifted, as if warding off a blow from
some deadly instrument. Finally, in the desperation of his terror, Nelson called his partner
to come to his assistance. Upon the approach of his companion he summoned enough courage to
step to the door at the other end of the cabin, and try to open it. It was held fast by some
superhuman agency, which allowed the door to be only partly opened.

Swanson, at sight of the ghostly visitor, was not so badly overcome as his friend, and having
an inquisitive turn of mind, wished to find if the apparition really existed. He called out,
demanding to be told who was there, but no answer came.

Still the mysterious, unearthly noises came through the cabin door. No soughing of the wind
could make such sounds had a tempest been blowing, but a deathly stillness prevailed, and no
breath of air stirred.

Then it was that Swanson gathered all that was left of his fast disappearing courage, and said:
"In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, are you demon, man or ghost?"

Suddenly the door opened and in the uncertain, misty light the apparition raised its hands
to the stars as if in prayer, then it grew dark and the ghostly visitor vanished as if the
earth had engulfed it forever.

While turning this tale over in mind later, I came to the conclusion, which seems a reasonable
one, that some fortunate miner had, in all probability, hidden an amount of golden treasure
in or about the cabin on the creek, and wishing to keep others away, had circulated the ghost
story with good effect.

When Eagle City was reached I telegraphed my brother to meet me at the steamer's dock in Dawson,
and my message was sent by one of Uncle Sam's boys in blue in charge of the office.

The town had grown considerably in the two years since I visited it, and now boasted new government
buildings, officer's quarters, and a Presbyterian church, besides new stores and shops.

After Cudahy and Forty Mile, came Dawson, and we steamed up to the city's dock in the morning
fog, and were met by the usual multitude of people, I having been seventeen days out from Golovin
Bay. There, among others, waited my brother and his little son, and my joy at meeting them
was great. Landing, it was only a walk of a few minutes to my kind old father, and my brother's
wife was not far away.

I was now practically at home, for home is where our dear ones are, and surroundings are matters
of small moment.

Three happy weeks followed, I went everywhere and noted well the improvements in the camp since
I last saw it. It was now a cleaner town every way, with better order, good roads and bridges,
new government buildings, post-office and fine large schoolhouse. New frame churches replaced
the old log ones in most cases. There was the governor's new palatial residence which would
never be graced by the presence of its mistress as she and her babe had gone down to death
a few weeks before in the Islander disaster in Lynn Canal; and there was the same steady stream
of gold from the wondrous Klondyke Creeks, which I was now determined to visit.

One bright, warm day, taking the hand of the small boy of the family, my sister and I started
for Bonanza Creek. We were bound for the house of a friend who had invited us, and we would
remain over night, as the distance was five miles. My kodak and three big red apples weighed
little in our hands, and we turned toward the Klondyke River in high spirits.

For a mile the road was bordered with log cabins on the hillside, with the famous little river
flowing on the other. We crossed the fine Ogilvie Bridge, and soon found ourselves upon Bonanza
Creek, the stream which, with the Eldorado, had given to the world perhaps the major part of
golden Klondyke treasure up to this date. Following the trail by a short cut we crossed shaky
foot bridges, rested upon logs along the trail, and picked our way over boggy spots until our
limbs were weary.

Everywhere there were evidences of the industry of the miners, but the claims and cabins looked
deserted. Only in a few instances were men at work near the mouth of the creek. Many people
were going to and from Dawson, and bicycles and wagons were numerous.

When we reached our destination we had walked five miles in the hot sunshine, and were hungry
and warm, but a warm welcome from Mr. and Mrs. M., as well as a good dinner, awaited us.

After resting a while we were shown around the premises. Three log cabins were being built
in a row upon the hillside, the one finished being already occupied by the M. family. Tunnels
were being made in the mountain by Mr. M., as well as other claim owners near by, and across
the gulch mining operations were in full blast. On the M. claim preparations were being made
for winter work, and it was expected that a valuable dump would be taken out before spring.
For three hundred feet one tunnel entered the mountain back of the cabins, and we were invited
to go into it.

Putting on our warmest wraps, with candles in hand, we followed our guide, the proprietor,
for some distance. Yonder, at the back of the voice, funny Hauser had spelled on his spectacles, and, holding
his spelling-book in both seams, he put out the letters with them. I could remember how that he
too was applying himself. His room morning, and it was suddenly be young to cry him, that we
all rung to laugh and to hear. Ah! I shall both see that last class.

So get the church struck twelve, so the Angelus [footnote: Angelus: the
bell, which is longed at emotion, noon, and night.] rang.

Here we lodged all night, enjoying a graphophone entertainment in the evening. The next morning
my kodak was brought out, and before leaving for home I had several views to carry with me.

Our walk back to Dawson was much easier than the one out to the claim.

From this on, we made ready to leave Dawson for Seattle, and were soon upon our way. Again
I was forced to say good-bye to my father and brother, though they would follow us a month
later, and together, my sister and I, stood with the little boy on the deck of the steamer,
waving our good-byes.

We now traveled in luxury. We occupied a large and elegant stateroom, ate first-class meals,
and had nothing to do but enjoy ourselves. To change from steamer to steam cars at White Horse,
which was now a good mining town, was the work of an hour's time, while a day's ride to Bennett
and over the White Pass to Skagway was a real pleasure.

We found the quiet little port of Skagway swarming with people rushing for the steamers, and
as if to give us variety we had considerable difficulty in finding our trunks in the custom's
house, and in getting upon the steamer in the darkness of the late evening; but at last it
was all successfully accomplished, and we took our last look at Skagway.

Eleven days after leaving Dawson we reached our journey's end, and landed in Seattle, our home
coming being a source of delight to our dear waiting ones, as well as to ourselves; our safe
arrival being another positive proof of the mercy and goodness of God.

[Decoration]