Not long after Cæsar's death Cicero left Rome, and spent the ensuing month travelling about
among his different villas. On the 14th of April he writes to Atticus, declaring that whatever
evil might befall him he would find comfort in the ides of March. In the same letter he calls
Brutus and the others "our heroes," and begs his friend to send him news--or if not news, then
a letter without news.[180] In the next he again calls them his heroes, but adds that he can
take no pleasure in anything but in the deed that had been done. Men are still praising the
work of Cæsar, and he laments that they should be so inconsistent. "Though they laud those
who had destroyed Cæsar, at the same time they praise his deeds."[181] In the same letter he
tells Atticus that the people in all the villages are full of joy. "It cannot be told how eager
they are--how they run out to meet me, and to hear my accounts of what was done. But the Senate
passes no decree!"[182] He speaks of going into Greece to see his son--whom he never lived
to see again--telling him of letters from the lad from Athens, which, he thinks, however, may
be hypocritical, though he is comforted by finding their language to be clear. He has recovered
his good-humor, and can be jocose. One Cluvius has left him a property at Puteoli, and the
house has tumbled down; but he has sent for Chrysippus, an architect. But what are houses falling
to him? He can thank Socrates and all his followers that they have taught him to disregard
such worldly things. Nevertheless, he has deemed it expedient to take the advice of a certain
friend as to turning the tumble-down house into profitable shape.[183] A little later he expresses
his great disgust that Cæsar, in the public speeches in Rome, should be spoken of as that "great
and most excellent man."[184] And yet he had said, but a few months since, in his oration for
King Deiotarus, in the presence of Cæsar, "that he looked only into his eyes, only into his
face--that he regarded only him." The flattery and the indignant reprobation do, in truth,
come very near upon each other, and induce us to ask whether the fact of having to live in
the presence of royalty be not injurious to the moral man. Could any of us have refused to
speak to Cæsar with adulation--any of us whom circumstances compelled to speak to him? Power
had made Cæsar desirous of a mode of address hardly becoming a man to give or a man to receive.
Does not the etiquette of to-day require from us certain courtesies of conversation, which
I would call abject were it not that etiquette requires them? Nevertheless, making the best
allowance that I can for Cicero, the difference of his language within a month or two is very
painful. In the letter above quoted Octavius comes to him, and we can see how willing was the
young aspirant to flatter him.

He sees already that, in spite of the promised amnesty, there must be internecine feud. "I
shall have to go into the camp with young Sextus"--Sextus Pompeius--"or perhaps with Brutus,
a prospect at my years most odious." Then he quotes two lines of Homer, altering a word: "To
you, my child, is not given the glory of war; eloquence, charming eloquence, must be the weapon
with which you will fight." We hear of his contemplated journey into Greece, under the protection
of a free legation. He was going for the sake of his son; but would not people say that he
went to avoid the present danger? and might it not be the case that he should be of service
if he remained?[185] We see that the old state of doubt is again falling upon him. [Greek:
Aideomai Trôas.] Otherwise he could go and make himself safe in Athens. There is a correspondence
between him and Antony, of which he sends copies to Atticus. Antony writes to him, begging
him to allow Sextus Clodius to return from his banishment. This Sextus had been condemned because
of the riot on the death of his uncle in Milo's affair, and Antony wishes to have him back.
Cicero replies that he will certainly accede to Antony's views. It had always been a law with
him, he says, not to maintain a feeling of hatred against his humbler enemies. But in both
these letters we see the subtilty and caution of the writers. Antony could have brought back
Sextus without Cicero, and Cicero knew that he could do so. Cicero had no power over the law.
But it suited Antony to write courteously a letter which might elicit an uncivil reply. Cicero,
however, knew better, and answered it civilly.

He writes to Tiro telling him that he has not the slightest intention of quarrelling with his
old friend Antony, and will write to Antony, but not till he shall have seen him, Tiro; showing
on what terms of friendship he stands with his former slave, for Tiro had by this time been
manumitted.[186] He writes to Tiro quite as he might have written to a younger Atticus, and
speaks to him of Atticus with all the familiarity of confirmed friendship. There must have
been something very sweet in the nature of the intercourse which bound such a man as Cicero
to such another as Tiro.

Atticus applies to him, desiring him to use his influence respecting a certain question of
importance as to Buthrotum. Buthrotum was a town in Epirus opposite to the island of Corcyra,
in which Atticus had an important interest. The lands about the place were to be divided, and
to be distributed to Roman soldiers--much, as we may suppose to the injury of Atticus. He has
earnestly begged the interference of Cicero for the protection of the Buthrotians, and Cicero
tells him that he wishes he could have seen Antony on the subject, but that Antony is too much
busied looking after the soldiers in the Campagna. Cicero fails to have the wishes of Atticus
carried out, and shortly the subject becomes lost in the general confusion. But the discussion
shows of how much importance at the present moment Cicero's interference with Antony is considered.
It shows also that up to this period, a few months previous to the envenomed hatred of the
second Philippic, Antony and Cicero were presumed to be on terms of intimate friendship.

The worship of Cæsar had been commenced in Rome, and an altar had been set up to him in the
Forum as to a god. Had Cæsar, when he perished, been said to have usurped the sovereign authority,
his body would have been thrown out as unworthy of noble treatment. Such treatment the custom
of the Republic required. It had been allowed to be buried, and had been honored, not disgraced.
Now, on the spot where the funeral pile had been made, the altar was erected, and crowds of
men clamored round it, worshipping. That this was the work of Antony we cannot doubt. But Dolabella,
Cicero's repudiated son-in-law, who in furtherance of a promise from Cæsar had seized the Consulship,
was jealous of Antony and caused the altar to be thrown down and the worshippers to be dispersed.
Many were killed in the struggle--for, though the Republic was so jealous of the lives of the
citizens as not to allow a criminal to be executed without an expression of the voice of the
entire people, any number might fall in a street tumult, and but little would be thought about
it. Dolabella destroyed the altar, and Cicero was profuse in his thanks.[187] For though Tullia
had been divorced, and had since died, there was no cause for a quarrel. Divorces were so common
that no family odium was necessarily created. Cicero was at this moment most anxious to get
back from Dolabella his daughter's dowry. It was never repaid. Indeed, a time was quickly coming
in which such payments were out of the question, and Dolabella soon took a side altogether
opposed to the Republic--for which he cared nothing. He was bought by Antony, having been ready
to be bought by any one. He went to Syria as governor before the end of the year, and at Smyrna,
on his road, he committed one of those acts of horror on Trebonius, an adverse governor, in
which the Romans of the day would revel when liberated from control. Cassius came to avenge
his friend Trebonius, and Dolabella, finding himself worsted, destroyed himself. He had not
progressed so far in corruption as Verres, because time had not permitted it--but that was
the direction in which he was travelling. At the present moment, however, no praise was too
fervid to be bestowed upon him by Cicero's pen. That turning of Cæsar into a god was opposed
to every feeling of his heart, both, as to men and as to gods.

A little farther on[188] we find him complaining of the state of things very grievously: "That
we should have feared this thing, and not have feared the other!"--meaning Cæsar and Antony.
He declares that he must often read, for his own consolation, his treatise on old age, then
just written and addressed to Atticus. "Old age is making me bitter," he says; "I am annoyed
at everything. But my life has been lived. Let the young look to the future." We here meet
the name of Cærellia in a letter to his friend. She had probably been sent to make up the quarrel
between him and his young wife Publilia. Nothing came of it, and it is mentioned only because
Cærellia's name has been joined so often with that of Cicero by subsequent writers. In the
whole course of his correspondence with Atticus I do not remember it to occur, except in one
or two letters at this period. I imagine that some story respecting the lady was handed down,
and was published by Dio Cassius when the Greek historian found that it served his purpose
to abuse Cicero.

On June 22nd he sent news to Atticus of his nephew. Young Quintus had written home to his father
to declare his repentance. He had been in receipt of money from Antony, and had done Antony's
dirty work. He had been "Antoni dextella"--"Antony's right hand"--according to Cicero, and
had quarrelled absolutely with his father and his uncle. He now expresses his sorrow, and declares
that he would come himself at once, but that there might be danger to his father. And there
is money to be expected if he will only wait. "Did you ever hear of a worse knave?" Cicero
adds. Probably not; but yet he was able to convince his father and his uncle, and some time
afterward absolutely offered to prosecute Antony for stealing the public money out of the treasury.
He thought, as did some others, that the course of things was going against Antony. As a consequence
of this he was named in the proscriptions, and killed, with his father. In the same letter
Cicero consults Atticus as to the best mode of going to Greece. Brundisium is the usual way,
but he has been told by Tiro that there are soldiers in the town.[189] He is now at Arpinum,
on his journey, and receives a letter from Brutus inviting him back to Rome, to see the games
given by Brutus. He is annoyed to think that Brutus should expect this. "These shows are now
only honorable to him who is bound to give them," he says; "I am not bound to see them, and
to be present would be dishonorable."[190] Then comes his parting with Atticus, showing a demonstrative
tenderness foreign to the sternness of our northern nature. "That you should have wept when
you had parted from me, has grieved me greatly. Had you done it in my presence, I should not
have gone at all."[191] "Nonis Juliis!"[192] he exclaims. The name of July had already come
into use--the name which has been in use ever since--the name of the man who had now been destroyed!
The idea distresses him. "Shall Brutus talk of July?" It seems that some advertisement had
been published as to his games in which the month was so called.

Writing from one of his villas in the south, he tells Atticus that his nephew has again been
with him, and has repented him of all his sins. I think that Cicero never wrote anything vainer
than this: "He has been so changed," he says, "by reading some of my writings which I happened
to have by me, and by my words and precepts, that he is just such a citizen as I would have
him."[193] Could it be that he should suppose that one whom he had a few days since described
as the biggest knave he knew should be so changed by a few words well written and well pronounced?
Young Quintus must in truth have been a clever knave. In the same letter Cicero tells us that
Tiro had collected about seventy of his letters with a view to publication. We have at present
over seven hundred written before that day.

Just as he is starting he gives his friend a very wide commission: "By your love for me, do
manage my matters for me. I have left enough to pay everything that I owe. But it will happen,
as it often does, that they who owe me will not be punctual. If anything of that kind should
happen, only think of my character. Put me right before the world by borrowing, or even by
selling, if it be necessary."[194] This is not the language of a man in distress, but of one
anxious that none should lose a shilling by him. He again thinks of starting from Brundisium,
and promises, when he has arrived there, instantly to begin a new work. He has sent his De
Gloria to Atticus; a treatise which we have lost. We should be glad to know how he treated
this most difficult subject. We are astonished at his fecundity and readiness. He was now nearly
sixty-three, and, as he travels about the country, he takes with him all the adjuncts necessary
for the writing of treatises such as he composed at this period of his life! His Topica, containing
Aristotelian instructions as to a lawyer's work, he put together on board ship, immediately
after this, for the benefit of Trebatius, to whom it had been promised.

July had come, and at last he resolved to sail from Pompeii and to coast round to Sicily. He
lands for a night at Velia, where he finds Brutus, with whom he has an interview. Then he writes
a letter to Trebatius, who had there a charming villa, bought no doubt with Gallic spoils.
He is reminded of his promise, and going on to Rhegium writes his Topica, which he sends to
Trebatius from that place. Thence he went across to Syracuse, but was afraid to stay there,
fearing that his motions might be watched, and that Antony would think that he had objects
of State in his journey. He had already been told that some attributed his going to a desire
to be present at the Olympian games; but the first notion seems to have been that he had given
the Republic up as lost, and was seeking safety elsewhere. From this we are made to perceive
how closely his motions were watched, and how much men thought of them. From Syracuse he started
for Athens--which place, however, he was doomed never to see again. He was carried back to
Leucopetra on the continent; and though he made another effort, he was, he says, again brought
back. There, at the villa of his friend Valerius, he learned tidings which induced him to change
his purpose, and hurry off to Rome. Brutus and Cassius had published a decree of the Senate,
calling all the Senators, and especially the Consulares, to Rome. There was reason to suppose
that Antony was willing to relax his pretensions. They had strenuously demanded his attendance,
and whispers were heard that he had fled from the difficulties of the times. "When I heard
this, I at once abandoned my journey, with which, indeed, I had never been well pleased."[195]
Then he enters into a long disquisition with Atticus as to the advice which had been given
to him, both by Atticus and by Brutus, and he says some hard words to Atticus. But he leaves
an impression on the reader's mind that Brutus had so disturbed him by what had passed between
them at Velia, that from that moment his doubts as to going, which had been always strong,
had overmastered him. It was not the winds at Leucopetra that hindered his journey, but the
taunting words which Brutus had spoken. It was suggested to him that he was deserting his country.
The reproach had been felt by him to be heavy, for he had promised to Atticus that he would
return by the first of January; yet he could not but feel that there was something in it of
truth. The very months during which he would be absent would be the months of danger. Indeed,
looking out upon the political horizon then, it seemed as though the nearest months, those
they were then passing, would be the most dangerous. If Antony could be got rid of, be made
to leave Italy, there might be something for an honest Senator to do--a man with consular authority--a
something which might not jeopardize his life. When men now call a politician of those days
a coward for wishing to avoid the heat of the battle, they hardly think what it is for an old
man to leave his retreat and rush into the Forum, and there encounter such a one as Antony,
and such soldiers as were his soldiers. Cicero, who had been brave enough in the emergencies
of his career, and had gone about his work sometimes regardless of his life, no doubt thought
of all this. It would be pleasant to him again to see his son, and to look upon the rough doings
of Rome from amid the safety of Athens; but when his countrymen told him that he had not as
yet done enough--when Brutus, with his cold, bitter words, rebuked him for going--then his
thoughts turned round on the quick pivot on which they were balanced, and he hurried back to
the fight.

He travelled at once up to Rome, which he reached on the last of August, and there received
a message from Antony demanding his presence in the Senate on the next day. He had been greeted
on his journey once again by the enthusiastic welcome of his countrymen, who looked to receive
some especial advantage from his honesty and patriotism. Once again he was made proud by the
clamors of a trusting people. But he had not come to Rome to be Antony's puppet. Antony had
some measure to bring before the Senate in honor of Cæsar which it would not suit Cicero to
support or to oppose. He sent to say that he was tired after his journey and would not come.
Upon this the critics deal hardly with him, and call him a coward. "With an incredible pusillanimity,"
says M. Du Rozoir, "Cicero excused himself, alleging his health and the fatigue of his voyage."
"He pretended that he was too tired to be present," says Mr Long. It appears to me that they
who have read Cicero's works with the greatest care have become so enveloped by the power of
his words as to expect from them an unnatural weight. If a politician of to-day, finding that
it did not suit him to appear in the House of Commons on a certain evening, and that it would
best become him to allow a debate to pass without his presence, were to make such an excuse,
would he be treated after the same fashion? Pusillanimity, and pretence, in regard to those
Philippics in which he seems to have courted death by every harsh word that he uttered! The
reader who has begun to think so must change his mind, and be prepared, as he progresses, to
find quite another fault with Cicero. Impetuous, self-confident, rash; throwing down the gage
with internecine fury; striving to crush with his words the man who had the command of the
legions of Rome; sticking at nothing which could inflict a blow; forcing men by his descriptions
to such contempt of Antony that they should be induced to leave the stronger party, lest they
too should incur something of the wrath of the orator--that they will find to be the line which
Cicero adopted, and the demeanor he put on during the next twelve months! He thundered with
his Philippics through Rome, addressing now the Senate and now the people with a hardihood
which you may condemn as being unbecoming one so old, who should have been taught equanimity
by experience; but pusillanimity and pretence will not be the offences you will bring against him.

Antony, not finding that Cicero had come at his call, declared in the Senate that he would
send his workmen to dig him out from his house. Cicero alludes to this on the next day without
passion.[196] Antony was not present, and in this speech he expresses no bitterness of anger.
It should hardly have been named one of the Philippics, which title might well have been commenced
with the second. The name, it should be understood, has been adopted from a jocular allusion
by Cicero to the Philippics of Demosthenes, made in a letter to Brutus. We have at least the
reply of Brutus, if indeed the letter be genuine, which is much to be doubted.[197] But he
had no purpose of affixing his name to them. For many years afterward they were called Antonianæ,
and the first general use of the term by which we know them has probably been comparatively
modern. The one name does as well as another, but it is odd that speeches from Demosthenes
should have given a name to others so well known as these made by Cicero against Antony. Plutarch,
however, mentions the name, saying that it had been given to the speeches by Cicero himself.

In this, the first, he is ironically reticent as to Antony's violence and unpatriotic conduct.
Antony was not present, and Cicero tells his hearers with a pleasant joke that to Antony it
may be allowed to be absent on the score of ill-health, though the indulgence had been refused
to him. Antony is his friend, and why had Antony treated him so roughly? Was it unusual for
Senators to be absent? Was Hannibal at the gate, or were they dealing for peace with Pyrrhus,
as was the case when they brought the old blind Appius down to the House? Then he comes to
the question of the hour, which was, nominally, the sanctioning as law those acts of Cæsar's
which he had decreed by his own will before his death. When a tyrant usurps power for a while
and is then deposed, no more difficult question can be debated. Is it not better to take the
law as he leaves it, even though the law has become a law illegally, than encounter all the
confusion of retrograde action? Nothing could have been more iniquitous than some of Sulla's
laws, but Cicero had opposed their abrogation. But here the question was one not of Cæsar's
laws, but of decrees subsequently made by Antony and palmed off upon the people as having been
found among Cæsar's papers. Soon after Cæsar's death a decision had been obtained by Antony
in favor of Cæsar's laws or acts, and hence had come these impudent forgeries under the guise
of which Antony could cause what writings he chose to be made public. "I think that Cæsar's
acts should be maintained," says Cicero, "not as being in themselves good, for that no one
can assert. I wish that Antony were present here without his usual friends," he adds, alluding
to his armed satellites. "He would tell us after what manner he would maintain those acts of
Cæsar's. Are they to be found in notes and scraps and small documents brought forward by one
witness, or not brought forward at all but only told to us? And shall those which he engraved
in bronze, and which he wished to be known as the will of the people and as perpetual laws--shall
they go for nothing?"[198] Here was the point in dispute. The decree had been voted soon after
Cæsar's death, giving the sanction of the Senate to his laws. For peace this had been done,
as the best way out of the difficulty which oppressed the State. But it was intolerable that,
under this sanction, Antony should have the power of bringing forth new edicts day after day,
while the very laws which Cæsar had passed were not maintained. "What better law was there,
or more often demanded in the best days of the Republic, than that law," passed by Cæsar, "under
which the provinces were to be held by the Prætors only for one year, and by the Consuls for
not more than two? But this law is abolished. So it is thus that Cæsar's acts are to be maintained?"[199]
Antony, no doubt, and his friends, having an eye to the fruition of the provinces, had found
among Cæsar's papers--or said they had found--some writing to suit their purpose. All things
to be desired were to be found among Cæsar's papers. "The banished are brought back from banishment,
the right of citizenship is given not only to individuals but to whole nations and provinces,
exceptions from taxations are granted, by the dead man's voice."[200] Antony had begun, probably,
with some one or two more modest forgeries, and had gone on, strengthened in impudence by his
own success, till Cæsar dead was like to be worse to them than Cæsar living. The whole speech
is dignified, patriotic, and bold, asserting with truth that which he believed to be right,
but never carried into invective or dealing with expressions of anger. It is very short, but
I know no speech of his more closely to its purpose. I can see him now, with his toga round
him, as he utters the final words: "I have lived perhaps long enough--both as to length of
years and the glory I have won. What little may be added, shall be, not for myself, but for
you and for the Republic." The words thus spoken became absolutely true.

CHAPTER IX.

THE PHILIPPICS.

[Sidenote: B.C. 44, ætat. 63.]

Cicero was soon driven by the violence of Antony's conduct to relinquish the idea of moderate
language, and was ready enough to pick up the gauntlet thrown down for him. From this moment
to the last scene of his life it was all the fury of battle and the shout of victory, and then
the scream of despair. Antony, when he read Cicero's speech, the first Philippic, the language
of which was no doubt instantly sent to him, seems to have understood at once that he must
either vanquish Cicero or be vanquished by him. He appreciated to the letter the ironically
cautious language in which his conduct was exposed. He had not chosen to listen to Cicero,
but was most anxious to get Cicero to listen to him. Those "advocates" of whom Cicero had spoken
would be around him, and at a nod, or perhaps without a nod, would do to Cicero as Brutus and
Cassius had done to Cæsar. The last meeting of the Senate had been on the 2d of September.
When it was over, Antony, we are told, went down to his villa at Tivoli, and there devoted
himself for above a fortnight to the getting up of a speech by which he might silence, or at
any rate answer Cicero. Nor did he leave himself to his own devices, but took to himself a
master of eloquence who might teach him when to make use of his arms, where to stamp his feet,
and in what way to throw his toga about with a graceful passion. He was about forty at this
time,[201] and in the full flower of his manhood, yet, for such a purpose, he did not suppose
himself to know all that lessons would teach him in the art of invective. There he remained,
mouthing out his phrases in the presence of his preceptor, till he had learned by heart all
that the preceptor knew. Then he summoned Cicero to meet him in the Senate on the 19th. This
Cicero was desirous of doing, but was prevented by his friends, who were afraid of the "advocates."
There is extant a letter from Cicero to Cassius in which he states it to be well known in Rome
that Antony had declared that he, Cicero, had been the author of Cæsar's death, in order that
Cæsar's old soldiers might slay him.[202] There were other Senators, he says, who did not dare
to show themselves in the Senate-house--Piso, and Servilius, and Cotta. Antony came down and
made his practised oration against Cicero. The words of his speech have not been preserved,
but Cicero has told us the manner of it, and some of the phrases which he used. The authority
is not very good, but we may imagine from the results that his story is not far from the truth.
From first to last it was one violent tirade of abuse which he seemed to vomit forth from his
jaws, rather than to "speak after the manner of a Roman Consular." Such is Cicero's description.

It has been said of Antony that we hear of him only from his enemies. He left behind him no
friend to speak for him, and we have heard of him certainly from one enemy; but the tidings
are of a nature to force upon us belief in the evil which Cicero spoke of him. Had he been
a man of decent habits of life, and of an honest purpose, would Cicero have dared to say to
the Romans respecting him the words which he produced, not only in the second Philippic, which
was unspoken, but also in the twelve which followed? The record of him, as far as it goes,
is altogether bad. Plutarch tells us that he was handsome, and a good soldier, but altogether
vicious. Plutarch is not a biographer whose word is to be taken as to details, but he is generally
correct in his estimate of character. Tacitus tells us but little about him as direct history,
but mentions him ever in the same tone. Tacitus knew the feeling of Rome regarding him. Paterculus
speaks specially of his fraud, and breaks out into strong repudiation of the murder of Cicero.[203]
Valerius Maximus, in his anecdotes, mentions him slightingly, as an evil man is spoken of who
has forced himself into notice. Virgil has stamped his name with everlasting ignominy. "Sequiturque
nefas Egyptia conjux." I can think of no Roman writer who has named him with honor. He was
a Roman of the day--what Rome had made him--brave, greedy, treacherous, and unpatriotic.

Cicero again was absent from the Senate, but was in Rome when Antony attacked him. We learn
from a letter to Cornificius that Antony left the city shortly afterward, and went down to
Brundisium to look after the legions which had come across from Macedonia, with which Cicero
asserts that he intends to tyrannize over them all in Rome.[204] He then tells his correspondent
that young Octavius has just been discovered in an attempt to have Antony murdered, but that
Antony, having found the murderer in his house, had not dared to complain. He seems to think
that Octavius had been right! The state of things was such that men were used to murder; but
this story was probably not true. He passes on to declare in the next sentence that he receives
such consolation from philosophy as to be able to bear all the ills of fortune. He himself
goes to Puteoli, and there he writes the second Philippic. It is supposed to be the most violent
piece of invective ever produced by human ingenuity and human anger. The readers of it must,
however, remember that it was not made to be spoken--was not even written, as far as we are
aware, to be shown to Antony, or to be published to the world. We do not even know that Antony
ever saw it. There has been an idea prevalent that Antony's anger was caused by it, and that
Cicero owed to it his death; but the surmise is based on probability--not at all on evidence.
Cicero, when he heard what Antony had said of him, appears to have written all the evil he
could say of his enemy, in order that he might send it to Atticus. It contained rather what
he could have published than what he did intend to publish. He does, indeed, suggest, in the
letter which accompanied the treatise when sent to Atticus, in some only half-intelligible
words, that he hopes the time may come when the speech "shall find its way freely even into
Sica's house;"[205] but we gather even from that his intention that it should have no absolutely
public circulation. He had struggled to be as severe as he knew how, but had done it, as it
were, with a halter round his neck; and for Antony's anger--the anger which afterward produced
the proscription--there came to be cause enough beyond this. Before that day he had endeavored
to stir up the whole Empire against Antony, and had all but succeeded.

It has been alleged that Cicero again shows his cowardice by writing and not speaking his oration,
and also by writing it only for private distribution. If he were a coward, why did he write
it at all? If he were a coward, why did he hurry into this contest with Antony? If he be blamed
because his Philippic was anonymous, how do the anonymous writers of to-day escape? If because
he wrote it, and did not speak it, what shall be said of the party writers of to-day? He was
a coward, say his accusers, because he avoided a danger. Have they thought of the danger which
he did run when they bring those charges against him? of what was the nature of the fight?
Do they remember how many Romans in public life had been murdered during the last dozen years?
We are well aware how far custom goes, and that men became used to the fear of violent death.
Cicero was now habituated to that fear, and was willing to face it. But not on that account
are we to imagine that, with his eyes open, he was to be supposed always ready to rush into
immediate destruction. To write a scurrilous attack, such as the second Philippic, is a bad
exercise for the ingenuity of a great man; but so is any anonymous satire. It is so in regard
to our own times, which have received the benefit of all antecedent civilization. Cicero, being
in the midst of those heartless Romans, is expected to have the polished manners and high feelings
of a modern politician! I have hardly a right to be angry with his critics because by his life
he went so near to justify the expectation.

He begins by asking his supposed hearers how it has come to pass that during the last twenty
years the Republic had had no enemy who was not also his enemy. "And you, Antony, whom I have
never injured by a word, why is it that, more brazen-faced than Catiline, more fierce than
Clodius, you should attack me with your maledictions? Will your enmity against me be a recommendation
for you to every evil citizen in Rome? * * * Why does not Antony come down among us to-day?"
he says, as though he were in the Senate and Antony were away. "He gives a birthday fête in
his garden: to whom, I wonder? I will name no one. To Phormio, perhaps, or Gnatho, or Ballion?
Oh, incredible baseness; lust and impudence not to be borne!" These were the vile knaves of
the Roman comedy--the Nyms. Pistols, and Bobadils. "Your Consulship no doubt will be salutary;
but mine did only evil! You talk of my verses," he says--Antony having twitted him with the
"cedant arma togæ." "I will only say that you do not understand them or any other. Clodius
was killed by my counsels--was he? What would men have said had they seen him running from
you through the Forum--you with your drawn sword, and him escaping up the stairs of the bookseller's
shop?[206] * * * It was by my advice that Cæsar was killed! I fear, O conscript fathers, lest
I should seem to have employed some false witness to flatter me with praises which do not belong
to me. Who has ever heard me mentioned as having been conversant with that glorious affair?
Among those who did do the deed, whose name has been hidden--or, indeed, is not most widely
known? Some had been inclined to boast that they were there, though they were absent; but not
one who was present has ever endeavored to conceal his name."

"You deny that I have had legacies? I wish it were true, for then my friends might still be
living. But where have you learned that, seeing that I have inherited twenty million sesterces?[207]
I am happier in this than you. No one but a friend has made me his heir. Lucius Rubrius Cassinas,
whom you never even saw, has named you." He here refers to a man over whose property Antony
was supposed to have obtained control fraudulently. "Did he know of you whether you were a
white man or a negro? * * * Would you mind telling me what height Turselius stood?" Here he
names another of whose property Antony is supposed to have obtained possession illegally. "I
believe all you know of him is what farms he had. * * * Do you bear in mind," he says, "that
you were a bankrupt as soon as you had become a man? Do you remember your early friendship
with Curio, and the injuries you did his father?" Here it is impossible to translate literally,
but after speaking as he had done very openly, he goes on: "But I must omit the iniquities
of your private life. There are things I cannot repeat here. You are safe, because the deeds
you have done are too bad to be mentioned. But let us look at the affairs of your public life.
I will just go through them;" which he does, laying bare as he well knew how to do, every past
act. "When you had been made Quæstor you flew at once to Cæsar. You knew that he was the only
refuge for poverty, debt, wickedness, and vice. Then, when you had gorged upon his generosity
and your plunderings--which indeed you spent faster than you got it--you betook yourself instantly
to the Tribunate. * * * It is you, Antony, you who supplied Cæsar with an excuse for invading
his country." Cæsar had declared at the Rubicon that the Tribunate had been violated in the
person of Antony. "I will say nothing here against Cæsar, though nothing can excuse a man for
taking up arms against his country. But of you it has to be confessed that you were the cause.
* * * He has been a very Helen to us Trojans. * * * He has brought back many a wretched exile,
but has forgotten altogether his own uncle"--Cicero's colleague in the Consulship, who had
been banished for plundering his province. "We have seen this Tribune of the people carried
through the town on a British war-chariot. His lictors with their laurels went before him.
In the midst, on an open litter, was carried an actress. When you come back from Thessaly with
your legions to Brundisium you did not kill me! Oh, what a kindness! * * * You with those jaws
of yours, with that huge chest, with that body like a gladiator, drank so much wine at Hippea's
marriage that in the sight of all Rome you were forced to vomit.* * * When he had seized Pompey's
property he rejoiced like some stage-actor who in a play is as poor as Poverty, and then suddenly
becomes rich. All his wine, the great weight of silver, the costly furniture and rich dresses,
in a few days where were they all? A Charybdis do I call him? He swallowed them all like an
entire ocean!" Then he accuses him of cowardice and cruelty in the Pharsalian wars, and compares
him most injuriously with Dolabella. "Do you remember how Dolabella fought for you in Spain,
when you were getting drunk at Narbo? And how did you get back from Narbo? He has asked as
to my return to the city. I have explained to you, O conscript fathers, how I had intended
to be here in January, so as to be of some service to the Republic. You inquire how I got back.
In daylight--not in the dark, as you did; with Roman shoes on and a Roman toga--not in barbaric
boots and an old cloak.* * * When Cæsar returned from Spain you again pushed yourself into
his intimacy--not a brave man, we should say, but still strong enough for his purposes. Cæsar
did always this--that if there were a man ruined, steeped in debt, up to his ears in poverty--a
base, needy, bold man--that was the man whom he could receive into his friendship." This as
to Cæsar was undoubtedly true. "Recommended in this way, you were told to declare yourself
Consul." Then he describes the way in which he endeavored to prevent the nomination of Dolabella
to the same office. Cæsar had said that Dolabella should be Consul, but when Cæsar was dead
this did not suit Antony. When the tribes had been called in their centuries to vote, Antony,
not understanding what form of words he ought to have used as augur to stop the ceremony, had
blundered. "Would you not call him a very Lælius?" says Cicero. Lælius had made for himself
a name among augurs for excellence.

"Miserable that you are, you throw yourself at Cæsar's feet asking only permission to be his
slave. You sought for yourself that state of slavery which it has ever been easy for you to
endure. Had you any command from the Roman people to ask the same for them? Oh, that eloquence
of yours; when naked you stood up to harangue the people! Who ever saw a fouler deed than that,
or one more worthy scourges?" "Has Tarquin suffered for this; have Spurius Cassius, Melius,
and Marcus Manlius suffered, that after many ages a king should be set up in Rome by Marc Antony?"
With abuse of a similar kind he goes on to the end of his declamation, when he again professes
himself ready to die at his post in defence of the Republic. That he now made up his mind so
to die, should it become necessary, we may take for granted, but we cannot bring ourselves
to approve of the storm of abuse under which he attempted to drown the memory and name of his
antagonist. So virulent a torrent of words, all seeming, as we read them, to have been poured
out in rapid utterances by the keen energy of the moment, astonish us, when we reflect that
it was the work of his quiet moments. That he should have prepared such a task in the seclusion
of his closet is marvellous. It has about it the very ring of sudden passion; but it must be
acknowledged that it is not palatable. It is more Roman and less English than anything we have
from Cicero--except his abuse of Piso, with whom he was again now half reconciled.

But it was solely on behalf of his country that he did it. He had grieved when Cæsar had usurped
the functions of the government; but in his grief he had respected Cæsar, and had felt that
he might best carry on the contest by submission. But, when Cæsar was dead, and Antony was
playing tyrant, his very soul rebelled. Then he sat down to prepare his first instalment of
keen personal abuse, adding word to word and phrase to phrase till he had built up this unsavory
monument of vituperation. It is by this that Antony is now known to the world. Plutarch makes
no special mention of the second Philippic. In his life of Antony he does not allude to these
orations at all, but in that of Cicero he tells us how Antony had ordered that right hand to
be brought to him with which Cicero had written his Philippics.

The "young Octavius" of Shakespeare had now taken the name of Octavianus--Caius Julius Cæsar
Octavianus--and had quarrelled to the knife with Antony. He had assumed that he had been adopted
by Cæsar, and now demanded all the treasures his uncle had collected as his own. Antony, who
had already stolen them, declared that they belonged to the State. At any rate there was cause
enough for quarrelling among them, and they were enemies. Each seems to have brought charges
of murder against the other, and each was anxious to obtain possession of the soldiery. Seen
as we see now the period in Rome of which we are writing--every safeguard of the Republic gone,
all law trampled under foot, Consuls, Prætors, and Tribunes not elected but forced upon the
State, all things in disorder, the provinces becoming the open prey of the greediest plunderer--it
is apparent enough that there could be no longer any hope for a Cicero. The marvel is that
the every-day affairs of life should have been carried on with any reference to the law. When
we are told that Antony stole Cæsar's treasures and paid his debts with them, we are inclined
to ask why he had paid his debts at all. But Cicero did hope. In his whole life there is nothing
more remarkable than the final vitality with which he endeavored to withstand the coming deluge
of military despotism. Nor in all history is there anything more wonderful than the capacity
of power to re-establish itself, as is shown by the orderly Empire of Augustus growing out
of the disorder left by Cæsar. One is reminded by it of the impotency of a reckless heir to
bring to absolute ruin the princely property of a great nobleman brought together by the skill
of many careful progenitors. A thing will grow to be so big as to be all but indestructible.
It is like that tower of Cæcilia Metella against which the storms of twenty centuries have
beaten in vain. Looking at the state of the Roman Empire when Cicero died, who would not declare
its doom? But it did "retrick its beams," not so much by the hand of one man, Augustus, as
by the force of the concrete power collected within it--"Quod non imber edax non aquilo impotens
Possit diruere."[208] Cicero with patriotic gallantry thought that even yet there might be
a chance for the old Republic--thought that by his eloquence, by his vehemence of words, he
could turn men from fraud to truth, and from the lust of plundering a province to a desire
to preserve their country. Of Antony now he despaired, but he still hoped that his words might
act upon this young Cæsar's heart. The youth was as callous as though he had already ruled
a province for three years. No Roman was ever more cautious, more wise, more heartless, more
able to pick his way through blood to a throne, than the young Augustus. Cicero fears Octavian--as
we must now call him--and knows that he can only be restrained by the keeping of power out
of his hands. Writing to Atticus from Arpinum, he says, "I agree altogether with you. If Octavian
gets power into his hands he will insist upon the tyrant's decrees much more thoroughly than
he did when the Senate sat in the temple of Tellus. Everything then will be done in opposition
to Brutus. But if he be conquered, then see how intolerable would be the dominion of Antony."[209]
In the same letter he speaks of the De Officiis, which he has just written. In his next and
last epistle to his old friend he congratulates himself on having been able at last to quarrel
with Dolabella. Dolabella had turned upon him in the end, bought by Antony's money. He then
returns to the subject of Octavian, and his doubts as to his loyalty. He has been asked to
pledge himself to Octavian, but has declined till he shall see how the young man will behave
when Casea becomes candidate for the Tribunate. If he show himself to be Casea's enemy, Casea
having been one of the conspirators, Cicero will know that he is not to be trusted. Then he
falls into a despairing mood, and declares that there is no hope. "Even Hippocrates was unwilling
to bestow medicine on those to whom it could avail nothing." But he will go to Rome, into the
very jaws of the danger. "It is less base for such as I am to fall publicly than privately."
With these words, almost the last written by him to Atticus, this correspondence is brought
to an end: the most affectionate, the most trusting, and the most open ever published to the
world as having come from one man to another. No letters more useful to the elucidation of
character were ever written; but when read for that purpose they should be read with care,
and should hardly be quoted till they have been understood.

[Sidenote: B.C. 44, ætat. 63.]

The struggles for the provinces were open and acknowledged. Under Cæsar, Decimus Brutus had
been nominated for Cisalpine Gaul, Marcus Brutus for Macedonia, and Cassius for Syria. It will
be observed that these three men were the most prominent among the conspirators. Since that
time Antony and Dolabella had obtained votes of the people to alter the arrangement. Antony
was to go to Macedonia, and Dolabella to Syria. This was again changed when Antony found that
Decimus had left Rome to take up his command. He sent his brother Caius to Macedonia, and himself
claimed to be Governor of Cisalpine Gaul. Hence there were two Roman governors for each province;
and in each case each governor was determined to fight for the possession. Antony hurried out
of Rome before the end of the year with the purpose of hindering Decimus from the occupation
of the north of Italy, and Cicero went up to Rome, determined to take a part in the struggle
which was imminent. The Senate had been summoned for the 19th of December, and attended in
great numbers. Then it was that he spoke the third Philippic, and in the evening of the same
day he spoke the fourth to the people. It should be understood that none of these speeches
were heard by Antony. Cicero had at this time become the acknowledged chief of the Republican
party, having drifted into the position which Pompey had so long filled. Many of Cæsar's friends,
frightened by his death, or rather cowed by the absence of his genius, had found it safer to
retreat from the Cæsarean party, of which the Antonys, with Dolabella, the cutthroats and gladiators
of the empire, had the command. Hirtius and Pansa, with Balbus and Oppius, were among them.
They, at this moment, were powerful in Rome. The legions were divided--some with Antony, some
with Octavian, and some with Decimus Brutus. The greater number were with Antony, whom they
hated for his cruelty; but were with him because the mantle of Cæsar's power had fallen on
to his shoulders. It was felt by Cicero that if he could induce Octavian to act with him the
Republic might be again established. He would surely have influence enough to keep the lad
from hankering after his great uncle's pernicious power. He was aware that the dominion did
in fact belong to the owner of the soldiers, but he thought that he could control this boy-officer,
and thus have his legions at the command of the Republic.

The Senate had been called together, nominally for the purpose of desiring the Consuls of the
year to provide a guard for its own safety. Cicero makes it an occasion for perpetuating the
feeling against Antony, which had already become strong in Rome. He breaks out into praise
of Octavian, whom he calls "this young Cæsar--almost a boy;" tells them what divine things
the boy had already done, and how he had drawn away from the rebels those two indomitable legions,
the Martia and the Fourth. Then he proceeds to abuse Antony. Tarquinius, the man whose name
was most odious to Romans, had been unendurable as a tyrant, though himself not a bad man;
but Antony's only object is to sell the Empire, and to spend the price. Antony had convoked
the Senate for November, threatening the Senators with awful punishments should they absent
themselves; but, when the day came, Antony, the Consul, had himself fled. He not only pours
out the vials of his wrath but of his ridicule upon Antony's head, and quotes his bungling
words. He gives instances of his imprudence, and his impotence, and of his greed. Then he again
praises the young Cæsar, and the two Consuls for the next year, and the two legions, and Decimus
Brutus, who is about to fight the battle of the Republic for them in the north of Italy, and
votes that the necessary guard be supplied. In the same evening he addresses the people in
his fourth Philippic. He again praises the lad and the two legions, and again abuses Antony.
No one can say after this day that he hid his anger, or was silent from fear. He congratulates
the Romans on their patriotism--vain congratulations--and encourages them to make new efforts.
He bids them rejoice that they have a hero such as Decimus Brutus to protect their liberties,
and, almost, that they have such an enemy as Antony to conquer. It seems that his words, few
as they were--perhaps because they were so few--took hold of the people's imaginations; so
that they shouted to him that he had on that day a second time saved his country, as he reminds
them afterward.[210]

From this time forward we are without those intimate and friendly letters which we have had
with us as our guide through the last twenty-one years of Cicero's life. For though we have
a large body of correspondence written during the last year of his life, which are genuine,
they are written in altogether a different style from those which have gone before. They are
for the most part urgent appeals to those of his political friends to whom he can look for
support in his views--often to those to whom he looked in vain. They are passionate prayers
for the performance of a public duty, and as such are altogether to the writer's credit. His
letters to Plancus are beautiful in their patriotism, as are also those to Decimus Brutus.
When we think of his age, of his zeal, of his earnestness, and of the dangers which he ran,
we hardly know how sufficiently to admire the public spirit with which at such a crisis he
had taken on himself to lead the party. But our guide to his inner feelings is gone. There
are no further letters to tell us of every doubt at his heart. We think of him as of some stalwart
commander left at home to arrange the affairs of the war, while the less experienced men were
sent to the van.

There is also a book of letters published as having passed between Cicero and Junius Brutus.
The critics have generally united in condemning them as spurious. They are at, any rate, if
genuine, cold and formal in their language.

[Sidenote: B.C. 43, ætat. 64.]

Antony had proceeded into Cisalpine Gaul to drive out of the province the Consul named by the
people to govern it. The nomination of Decimus had in truth been Cæsar's nomination; but the
right of Decimus to rule was at any rate better than that of any other claimant. He had been
appointed in accordance with the power then in existence, and his appointment had been confirmed
by the decree of the Senate sanctioning all Cæsar's acts. It was, after all, a question of
simple power, for Cæsar had overridden every legal form. It became necessary, however, that
they who were in power in Rome should decide. The Consuls Hirtius and Pansa had been Cæsar's
friends, and had also been the friends of Antony. They had not the trust in Antony which Cæsar
had inspired; but they were anxious to befriend him--or rather not to break with him. When
the Senate met, they called on one Fufius Calenus--who was Antony's friend and Pansa's father-in-law--first
to offer his opinion. He had been one of Cæsar's Consuls, appointed for a month or two, and
was now chosen for the honorable part of first spokesman, as being a Consular Senator. He was
for making terms with Antony, and suggested that a deputation of three Senators should be sent
to him with a message calling upon him to retire. The object probably was to give Antony time,
or rather to give Octavian time, to join with Antony if it suited him. Others spoke in the
same sense, and then Cicero was desired to give his opinion. This was the fifth Philippic.
He is all for war with Antony--or rather he will not call it war, but a public breach of the
peace which Antony has made. He begins mildly enough, but warms with his subject as he goes
on: "Should they send ambassadors to a traitor to his country? * * * Let him return from Mutina."
I keep the old Latin name, which is preserved for us in that of Modena. "Let him cease to contend
with Decimus. Let him depart out of Gaul. It is not fit that we should send to implore him
to do so. We should by force compel him. * * * We are not sending messengers to Hannibal, who,
if Hannibal would not obey, might be desired to go on to Carthage. Whither shall the men go
if Antony refuses to obey them?" But it is of no use. With eloquent words he praises Octavian
and the two legions and Decimus. He praises even the coward Lepidus, who was in command of
legions, and was now Governor of Gaul beyond the Alps and of Northern Spain, and proposes that
the people should put up to him a gilt statue on horseback--so important was it to obtain,
if possible, his services. Alas! it was impossible that such a man should be moved by patriotic
motives. Lepidus was soon to go with the winning side, and became one of the second triumvirate
with Antony and Octavian.

Cicero's eloquence was on this occasion futile. At this sitting the Senate came to no decision,
but on the third day afterward they decreed that the Senators, Servius Sulpicius, Lucius Piso,
and Lucius Philippus, should be sent to Antony. The honors which he had demanded for Lepidus
and the others were granted, but he was outvoted in regard to the ambassadors. On the 4th of
January Cicero again addressed the people in the Forum. His task was very difficult. He wished
to give no offence to the Senate, and yet was anxious to stir the citizens and to excite them
to a desire for immediate war. The Senate, he told them, had not behaved disgracefully, but
had--temporized. The war, unfortunately, must be delayed for those twenty days necessary for
the going and coming of the ambassadors. The ambassadors could do nothing. But still they must
wait. In the mean time he will not be idle. For them, the Roman people, he will work and watch
with all his experience, with diligence almost above his strength, to repay them for their
faith in him. When Cæsar was with them they had had no choice but obedience--so much the times
were out of joint. If they submit themselves to be slaves now, it will be their own fault.
Then in general language he pronounces an opinion--which was the general Roman feeling of the
day: "It is not permitted to the Roman people to become slaves--that people whom the immortal
gods have willed to rule all nations of the earth."[211] So he ended the sixth Philippic, which,
like the fourth, was addressed to the people. All the others were spoken in the Senate.

He writes to Decimus at Mutina about this time a letter full of hope--of hope which we can
see to be genuine. "Recruits are being raised in all Italy--if that can be called recruiting
which is in truth a spontaneous rushing into arms of the entire population."[212] He expects
letters telling him what "our Hirtius" is doing, and what "my young Cæsar." Hirtius and Pansa,
the Consuls of the year, though they had been Cæsar's party, and made Consuls by Cæsar, were
forced to fight for the Republic. They had been on friendly terms with Cicero, and they doubted
Antony. Hirtius had now followed the army, and Pansa was about to do so. They both fell in
the battle that was fought at Mutina, and no one can now accuse them of want of loyalty. But
"my Cæsar," on whose behalf Cicero made so many sweet speeches, for whose glory he was so careful,
whose early republican principles he was so anxious to direct, made his terms with Antony on
the first occasion. At that time Cicero wrote to Plancus. Consul elect for the next year, and
places before his eyes a picture of all that he can do for the Republic. "Lay yourself out--yes,
I pray you, by the immortal gods--for that which will bring you to the height of glory and
renown."[213]

At the end of January or beginning of February he again addressed the Senate on the subject
of the embassy--a matter altogether foreign from that which it had been convoked to discuss.
To Cicero's mind there was no other subject at the present moment fit to occupy the thoughts
of a Roman Senator. "We have met together to settle something about the Appian Way, and something
about the coinage. The mind revolts from such little cares, torn by greater matters." The ambassadors
are expected back--two of them at least, for Sulpicius had died on his road. He cautions the
Senate against receiving with quiet composure such an answer as Antony will probably send them.
"Why do I--I who am a man of peace--refuse peace? Because it is base, because it is full of
danger--because peace is impossible." Then he proceeds to explain that it is so. "What a disgrace
would it be that Antony, after so many robberies, after bringing back banished comrades, after
selling the taxes of the State, putting up kingdoms to auction, shall rise up on the consular
bench and address a free Senate! * * * Can you have an assured peace while there is an Antony
in the State--or many Antonys? Or how can you be at peace with one who hates you as does he;
or how can he be at peace with those who hate him as do you? * * * You have such an opportunity,"
he says at last, "as never fell to the lot of any. You are able, with all senatorial dignity,
with all the zeal of the knights, with all the favor of the Roman people, now to make the Republic
free from fear and danger, once and forever." Then he thus ends his speech. "About those things
which have been brought before us, I agree with Servilius." That is the seventh Philippic.

