It would not have surprised me had she shown some signs of consciousness, and perhaps betrayed
that she recognised the purse.  But she contented herself with thanking me prettily, and almost
before I had done speaking had her slender fingers among the coins.  Turning, I found that
Vallon had disappeared; so that all came to a sudden stop; and with the one and the other,
I retired completely puzzled, and less able than before to make even a guess at the secret
of the young man's generosity.

However, the King summoning me to him, there, for the time, was an end of the matter:  and
between fatigue and the duties of my position, I did not give a second thought to it that evening.
Next morning, too, I was taken up with the gifts which it was my privilege as Master of the
Mint to present to the King on New Year's Day, and which consisted this year of medals of gold,
silver, and copper, bearing inscriptions of my own composition, together with small bags of
new coins for the King, the Queen, and their attendants.

These I always made it a point to offer before the King rose; nor was this year an exception,
for I found his Majesty still in bed, the Queen occupying a couch in the same chamber.  But
whereas it generally fell to me to arouse them from sleep, and be the first to offer those
compliments which befitted the day, I found them on this occasion fully roused, the King lazily
toying with his watch, the Queen talking fast and angrily, and at the edge of the carpet beside
her bed Mademoiselle D'Oyley in deep disgrace.  The Queen, indeed, was so taken up with scolding
her that she had forgotten what day it was; and even after my entrance, continued to rate the
poor girl so fiercely that I thought her present violence little less unseemly than her condescension
of the night before.

Perhaps some trace of this feeling appeared in my countenance; for, presently, the King, who
seldom failed to read my thoughts, tried to check her in a good-natured fashion.  "Come, my
dear," he said; "let that trembling mouse go.  And do you hear what our good friend Sully has
brought you?  I'll be bound--"

"How your Majesty talks!"  the Queen answered, pettishly.  "As if a few paltry coins could
make up for my jar!  I'll be bound, for my part, that this idle wench was romping and playing
with--"

"Come, come; you have made her cry enough!"  the King interrupted--and, indeed, the girl was
sobbing so passionately that a man could not listen without pain.  "Let her go, I say, and
do you attend to Sully. You have forgotten that it is New Year's Day--"

"A jar of majolica," the Queen cried, Utterly disregarding him, "worth your body and soul,
you little slut!"

"Pooh!  pooh!"  the King said.

"Do you think that I brought it from Florence, all the way in my own--"

"Nightcap," the King muttered.  "There, there, sweetheart," he continued, aloud, "let the girl go!"

"Of course!  She is a girl," the Queen cried, with a sneer. "That is enough for you!"

"Well, madam, she is not the only one in the room," I ventured.

"Oh, of course, you are the King's echo!"

"Run away, little one," Henry said, winking to me to be silent.

"And consider yourself lucky," the Queen cried, venomously.  "You ought to be whipped; and
if I had you in my country, I would have you whipped for all your airs!  San Giacomo, if you
cross me, I will see to it!"

This was a parting thrust; for the girl, catching at the King's permission, had turned and
was hurrying in a passion of tears to the door.  Still, the Queen had not done.  Mademoiselle
had broken a jar; and there were other misdemeanours which her Majesty continued to expound.
But in the end I had my say, and presented the medals, which were accepted by the King with
his usual kindness, and by the Queen, when her feelings had found expression, with sufficient
complaisance. Both were good enough to compliment me on my entertainment; but observing that
the Queen quickly buried herself again in her pillows and was inclined to be peevish, I cut
short my attendance on the plea of fatigue, and left them at liberty to receive the very numerous
company who on this day pay their court.

Of these, the greater number came on afterwards, to wait on me; so that for some hours the
large hall at the Arsenal was thronged with my friends, or those who called themselves by that
name. But towards noon the stream began to fail; and when I sat down to dinner at that hour,
I had reason to suppose that I should be left at peace.  I had not more than begun my meal,
however, when I was called from table by a messenger from the Queen.

"What is it?"  I said, when I had gone to him.  Had he come from the King, I could have understood
it more easily.

"Her Majesty desires to know, your excellency, whether you have seen anything of Mademoiselle
D'Oyley."

"I?"

"Yes, M. le Duc."

"No, certainly not.  How should I?"  I replied.

"And she is not here?"  the man persisted.

"No!"  I answered, angrily.  "God bless the Queen, I know nothing of her.  I am sitting at
meat, and--"

The man interrupted me with protestations of regret, and, hastening to express himself thoroughly
satisfied, retired with a crestfallen air. I wondered what the message meant, and what had
come over the Queen, and whither the girl had gone.  But as I made it a rule throughout my
term of office to avoid, as far as possible, all participation in bed-chamber intrigues, I
wasted little time on the matter, but returning to my dinner, took up the conversation where
I had left it. Before I rose, however, La Trape came to me and again interrupted me. He announced
that a messenger from his Majesty was waiting in the hall.

I went out, thinking it very probable that Henry had sent me a present; though it was his more
usual custom on this day to honour me with a visit, and declare his generous intentions by
word of mouth, when we had both retired to my library and the door was closed.  Still, on one
or two occasions he had sent me a horse from his stables, a brace of Indian fowl, a melon or
the like, as a foretaste; and this I supposed to be the errand on which the man had come.

His first words disabused me.  "May it please your excellency," he said, very civilly, "the
King desires to be remembered to you as usual, and would learn whether you know anything of
Mademoiselle D'Oyley."

"Of whom?"  I cried, astonished.

"Of Mademoiselle D'Oyley, her Majesty's maid of honour."

"Not I, i'faith!"  I said, drily.  "I am no squire of dames, to say nothing of maids!"

"But his Majesty--"

"If he has sent that message," I replied, "has yet something to learn--that I do not interest
myself in maids of honour or such frailties."

The man smiled.  "I do not think," he began, "that it was his Majesty--"

"Sent the message?"  I said.  "No, but the Queen, I suppose."

On this he gave me to understand, in the sly, secretive manner such men affect, that it was
so.  I asked him then what all this ferment was about.  "Has Mademoiselle D'Oyley disappeared?"
I said, peevishly.

"Yes, your excellency.  She was with the Queen at eight o'clock. At noon her Majesty desired
her services, and she was not to be found."

"What?"  I exclaimed.  "A maid of honour is missing for three hours in the morning, and there
is all this travelling!  Why, in my young days, three nights might have--"

But discerning that he was little more than a youth, and could not; restrain a smile, I broke
off discreetly, and contented myself with asking if there was reason to suppose that there
was more than appeared in the girl's absence.

"Her Majesty thinks so," he answered.

"Well, in any case, I know nothing about it," I replied.  "I am not hiding her.  You may tell
his Majesty that, with my service. Or I will write it."

He answered me, eagerly, that that was not necessary, and that the King had desired merely
a word from me; and with that and many other expressions of regret, he went away and left me
at leisure to go to the riding-school, where at this time of the year it was my wont to see
the young men practise those manly arts, which, so far as I can judge, are at a lower ebb in
these modern days of quips and quodlibets than in the stirring times of my youth.  Then, thank
God, it was held more necessary for a page to know his seven points of horsemanship than how
to tie a ribbon, or prank a gown, or read a primer.

But the first day of this year was destined to be a day of vexation.  I had scarcely entered
the school, when M. de Varennes was announced. Instead of going to meet him I bade them bring
him to me, and, on seeing him, bade him welcome to the sports. "Though," I said, politely overlooking
his past history and his origin, "we did better in our times; yet the young fellows should
be encouraged."

"Very true," he answered, suavely.  "And I wish I could stay with you. But it was not for pleasure
I came.  The King sent me.  He desires to know--"

"What?"  I said.

"If you know anything of Mademoiselle D'Oyley.  Between ourselves, M. le Duc--"

I looked at him in amazement.  "Why," I said, "what on earth has the girl done now?"

"Disappeared," he answered.

"But she had done that before."

"Yes," he said, "and the King had your message. But--"

"But what?"  I said sternly.

"He thought that you might wish to supplement it for his private use."

"To supplement it?"

"Yes.  The truth is," Varennes continued, looking at me doubtfully, "the King has information
which leads him to suppose that she may be here."

"She may be anywhere," I answered in a tone that closed his mouth, "but she is not here.  And
you may tell the King so from me!"

Though he had begun life as a cook, few could be more arrogant than Varennes on occasion; but
he possessed the valuable knack of knowing with whom he could presume, and never attempted
to impose on me. Apologising with the easy grace of a man who had risen in life by pleasing,
he sat with me awhile, recalling old days and feats, and then left, giving me to understand
that I might depend on him to disabuse the King's mind.

As a fact, Henry visited me that evening without raising the subject; nor had I any reason
to complain of his generosity, albeit he took care to exact from the Superintendent of the
Finances more than he gave his servant, and for one gift to Peter got two Pauls satisfied.
To obtain the money he needed in the most commodious manner, I spent the greater part of two
days in accounts, and had not yet settled the warrants to my liking, when La Trape coming in
with candles on the second evening disturbed my secretaries.  The men yawned discreetly; and
reflecting that we had had a long day I dismissed them, and stayed myself only for the purpose
of securing one or two papers of a private nature.  Then I bade La Trape light me to my closet.

Instead, he stood and craved leave to speak to me.  "About what, sirrah?"  I said.

"I have received an offer, your excellency," he answered with a crafty look.

"What!  To leave my service?"  I exclaimed, in surprise.

"No, your excellency," he answered.  "To do a service for another--M. Pimentel.  The Portuguese
gentleman stopped me in the street to-day, and offered me fifty crowns."

"To do what?"  I asked.

"To tell him where the young lady with Madame lies; and lend him the key of the garden gate
to-night."

I stared at the fellow.  "The young lady with Madame?"  I said.

He returned my look with a stupidity which I knew was assumed. "Yes, your excellency.  The
young lady who came this morning," he said.

Then I knew that I had been betrayed, and had given my enemies such a handle as they would
not be slow to seize; and I stood in the middle of the room in the utmost grief and consternation.
At last, "Stay here," I said to the man, as soon as I could speak. "Do not move from the spot
where you stand until I come back!"

It was my almost invariable custom to be announced when I visited my wife's closet; but I had
no mind now for such formalities, and swiftly passing two or three scared servants on the stairs,
I made straight for her room, tapped and entered.  Abrupt as were my movements, however, someone
had contrived to warn her; for though two of her women sat working on stools near her, I heard
a hasty foot flying, and caught the last flutter of a skirt as it disappeared through a second
door.  My wife rose from her seat, and looked at me guiltily.

"Madame," I said, "send these women away.  Now," I continued when they had gone, "who was that
with you?"  She looked away dumbly.

"You do well not to try to deceive me, Madame," I continued severely. "It was Mademoiselle
D'Oyley."

She muttered, not daring to meet my eye, that it was.

"Who has absented herself from the Queen's service," I answered bitterly, "and chosen to hide
herself here of all places! Madame," I continued, with a severity which the sense of my false
position amply justified, "are you aware that you have made me dishonour myself?  That you
have made me lie; not once, but three times?  That you have made me deceive my master?"

She cried out at that, being frightened, that "she had meant no harm; that the girl coming
to her in great grief and trouble--"

"Because the Queen had scolded her for breaking a china jar!"  I said, contemptuously.

"No, Monsieur; her trouble was of quite another kind," my wife answered with more spirit than
I had expected.

"Pshaw!" I exclaimed.

"It is plain that you do not yet understand the case," Madame persisted, facing me with trembling
hardihood.  "Mademoiselle D'Oyley has been persecuted for some time by the suit of a man for
whom I know you, Monsieur, have no respect:  a man whom no Frenchwoman of family should be
forced to marry."

"Who is it?"  I said curtly.

"M. Pimentel."

"Ah!  And the Queen?"

"Has made his suit her own.  Doubtless her Majesty," Madame de Sully continued with grimness,
"who plays with him so much, is under obligations to him, and has her reasons.  The King, too,
is on his side, so that Mademoiselle--"

"Who has another lover, I suppose?"  I said harshly.

My wife looked at me in trepidation.  "It may be so, Monsieur," she said hesitating.

"It is so, Madame; and you know it," I answered in the same tone. "M. Vallon is the man."

"Oh!"  she exclaimed with a gesture of alarm.  "You know!"

"I know, Madame," I replied, with vigour, "that to please this love-sick girl you have placed
me in a position of the utmost difficulty; that you have jeopardised the confidence which my
master, whom I have never willingly deceived, places in me; and that out of all this I see
only one way of escape, and that is by a full and frank confession, which you must make to
the Queen."

"Oh, Monsieur," she said faintly.

"The girl, of course, must be immediately given up."

My wife began to sob at that, as women will; but I had too keen a sense of the difficulties
into which she had plunged me by her deceit, to pity her over much.  And, doubtless, I should
have continued in the resolution I had formed, and which appeared to hold out the only hope
of avoiding the malice of those enemies whom every man in power possesses--and none can afford
to despise--if La Trape's words, when he betrayed the secret to me, had not recurred to my
mind and suggested other reflections.

Doubtless, Mademoiselle had been watched into my house, and my ill-wishers would take the earliest
opportunity of bringing the lie home to me.  My wife's confession, under such circumstances,
would have but a simple air, and believed by some would be ridiculed by more.  It might, and
probably would, save my credit with the King; but it would not exalt me in others' eyes, or
increase my reputation as a manager. If there were any other way--and so reflecting, I thought
of La Trape and his story.

Still I was half way to the door when I paused, and turned.  My wife was still weeping.  "It
is no good crying over spilled milk, Madame," I said severely.  "If the girl were not a fool,
she would have gone to the Ursulines.  The abbess has a stiff neck, and is as big a simpleton
to boot as you are.  It is only a step, too, from here to the Ursulines, if she had had the
sense to go on."

My wife lifted her head, and looked at me eagerly; but I avoided her gaze and went out without
more, and downstairs to my study, where I found La Trape awaiting me.  "Go to Madame la Duchesse,"
I said to him. "When you have done what she needs, come to me in my closet."

He obeyed, and after an interval of about half an hour, during which I had time to mature my
plan, presented himself again before me. "Pimentel had a notion that the young lady was here
then?"  I said carelessly.

"Yes, your excellency."

"Some of his people fancied that they saw her enter, perhaps?"

"Yes, your excellency."

"They were mistaken, of course?"

"Of course," he answered, dutifully.

"Or she may have come to the door and gone again?"  I suggested.

"Possibly, your excellency."

"Gone on without being seen, I mean?"

"If she went in the direction of the Rue St. Marcel," he answered stolidly, "she would not
be seen."

The convent of the Ursulines is in the Rue St. Marcel.  I knew, therefore, that Madame had
had the sense to act on my hint; and after reflecting a moment I continued, "So Pimentel wished
to know where she was lodged?"

"That, and to have the key, your excellency."

"To-night?"

"Yes, your excellency."

"Well, you are at liberty to accept the offer," I answered carelessly. "It will not clash with
my service."  And then, as he stood staring in astonishment, striving to read the riddle, I
continued, "By the way, are the rooms in the little Garden Pavilion aired?  They may be needed
next week; see that one of the women sleeps there to-night; a woman you can depend on."

"Ah, Monsieur!"

He said no more, but I saw that he understood; and bidding him be careful in following my instructions,
I dismissed him.  The line I had determined to take was attended by many uncertainties, however;
and more than once I repented that I had not followed my first; instinct, and avowed the truth.
A hundred things might fall out to frustrate my scheme and place me in a false position; from
which--since the confidence of his sovereign is the breath of a minister, and as easily destroyed
as a woman's reputation--I might find it impossible to extricate myself with credit.

I slept, therefore, but ill that night; and in conjunctures apparently more serious have felt
less trepidation.  But experience has long ago taught me that trifles, not great events, unseat
the statesman, and that of all intrigues those which revolve round a woman are the most dangerous.
I rose early, therefore, and repaired to Court before my usual hour, it being the essence of
my plan to attack, instead of waiting to be attacked.  Doubtless my early appearance was taken
to corroborate the rumour that I had made a false step, and was in difficulties; for scarcely
had I crossed the threshold of the ante-chamber before the attitude of the courtiers caught
my attention. Some who twenty-four hours earlier would have been only too glad to meet my eye
and obtain a word of recognition, appeared to be absorbed in conversation.  Others, less transparent
or better inclined to me, greeted me with unnatural effusion.  One who bore a grudge against
me, but had never before dared to do more than grin, now scowled openly; while a second, perhaps
the most foolish of all, came to me with advice, drew me with insistency into a niche near
the door, and adjured me to be cautious.

"You are too bold," he said; "and that way your enemies find their opening.  Do not go to the
King now.  He is incensed against you.  But we all know that he loves you; wait, therefore,
my friend, until he has had his day's hunting--he is just now booting himself and see him when
he has ridden off his annoyance."

"And when my friends, my dear Marquis, have had time to poison his mind against me?  No, no,"
I answered, wondering much whether he were as simple as he looked.

"But the Queen is with him now," he persisted, seizing the lappel of my coat to stay me, "and
she will be sure to put in a word against you."

"Therefore," I answered drily, "I had better see his Majesty before the one word becomes two."

"Be persuaded," he entreated me.  "See him now, and nothing but ill will come of it."

"Nothing but ill for some," I retorted, looking so keenly at him that his visage fell.  And
with that he let me go, and with a smile I passed through the door.  The rumour had not yet
gained such substance that the crowd had lost all respect for me; it rolled back, and I passed
through it towards the end of the chamber, where the King was stooping to draw on one of his
boots. The Queen stood not far from him, gazing into the fire with an air of ill-temper which
the circle, serious and silent, seemed to reflect, I looked everywhere for the Portuguese,
but he was not to be seen.

For a moment the King affected to be unaware of my presence, and even turned his shoulder to
me; but I observed that he reddened, and fidgeted nervously with the boot which he was drawing
on. Nothing daunted, therefore, I waited until he perforce discovered me, and was obliged to
greet me.  "You are early this morning," he said, at last, with a grudging air.

"For the best of reasons, sire," I answered hardily.  "I am ill placed at home, and come to
you for justice."

"What is it?"  he said churlishly and unwillingly.

I was about to answer, when the Queen interposed with a sneer. "I think that I can tell you,
sire," she said.  "M. de Sully is old enough to know the adage, 'Bite before you are bitten.'"

"Madame," I said, respectfully but with firmness.  "I know this only, that my house was last
night the scene of a gross outrage; and by all I can learn it was perpetrated by one who is
under your Majesty's protection."

"His name?"  she said, with a haughty gesture.

"M. Pimentel."

The Queen began to smile.  "What was this gross outrage?"  she asked drily.

"In the course of last night he broke into my house with a gang of wretches, and bore off one
of the inmates."

The Queen's smile grew broader; the King began to grin.  Some of the circle, watching them
closely, ventured to smile also. "Come, my friend," Henry said, almost with good humour, "this
is all very well. But this inmate of yours--was a very recent one."

"Was, in fact, I suppose, the rebellious little wench of whom you knew nothing yesterday!"
the Queen cried harshly, and with an air of open triumph.  "There can be no stealing of stolen
goods, sir; and if M. Pimentel, who had at least as much right as you to the girl--and more,
for I am her guardian--has carried her off, you have small ground to complain."

"But, Madame," I said, with an air of bewilderment, "I really do not--it must be my fault,
but I do not understand."

Two or three sniggered, seeing me apparently checkmated and at the end of my resources.  And
the King laughed out with kindly malice.  "Come, Grand Master," he said, "I think that you
do. However, if Pimentel has carried off the damsel, there, it seems to me, is an end of the
matter."

"But, sire," I answered, looking sternly round the grinning circle, "am I mad, or is there
some mystery here?  I assured your Majesty yesterday that Mademoiselle D'Oyley was not in my
house. I say the same to-day. She is not; your officers may search every room and closet. 
And for the woman whom M. Pimentel has carried off, she is no more Mademoiselle D'Oyley than
I am; she is one of my wife's waiting-maids.  If you doubt me," I continued, "you have only
to send and ask.  Ask the Portuguese himself."

The King stared at me.  "Nonsense!"  he said, sharply.  "If Pimentel has carried off anyone,
it must be Mademoiselle D'Oyley."

"But it is not, sire," I answered with persistence.  "He has broken into my house, and abducted
my servant.  For Mademoiselle, she is not there to be stolen."

"Let some one go for Pimentel," the King said curtly.

But the Portuguese, as it happened, was at the door even then, and being called, had no alternative
but to come forward.  His face and mien as he entered and reluctantly showed himself were more
than enough to dissipate any doubts which the courtiers had hitherto entertained; the former
being as gloomy and downcast as the latter was timid and cringing.  It is true he made some
attempt at first, and for a time, to face the matter out; stammering and stuttering, and looking
piteously to the Queen for help.  But he could not long delay the crisis, nor deny that the
person he had so cunningly abducted was one of my waiting-women; and the moment that this confession
was made his case was at an end, the statement being received with so universal a peal of laughter,
the King leading, as at one and the same time discomfited him, and must have persuaded any
indifferent listener that all, from the first, had been in the secret.

After that he would have spent himself in vain, had he contended that Mademoiselle D'Oyley
was at my house; and so clear was this that he made no second attempt to do so, but at once
admitting that his people had made a mistake, he proffered me a handsome apology, and desired
the King to speak to me in his behalf.

This I, on my side, was pleased to take in good part; and having let him off easily with a
mild rebuke, turned from him to the Queen, and informed her with much respect that I had learned
at length where Mademoiselle D'Oyley had taken refuge.

"Where, sir?"  she asked, eyeing me suspiciously and with no little disfavour.

"At the Ursulines, Madame," I answered,

She winced, for she had already quarrelled with the abbess without advantage.  And there for
the moment the matter ended. At a later period I took care to confess all to the King, and
he did not fail to laugh heartily at the clever manner in which I had outwitted Pimentel. But
this was not until the Portuguese had left the country and gone to Italy, the affair between
him and Mademoiselle D'Oyley (which resolved itself into a contest between the Queen and the
Ursulines) having come to a close under circumstances which it may be my duty to relate in
another place.

X.

FARMING THE TAXES.

In the summer of the year 1608, determining to take up my abode, when not in Paris, at Villebon,
where I had lately enlarged my property, I went thither from Rouen with my wife, to superintend
the building and mark out certain plantations which I projected. As the heat that month was
great, and the dust of the train annoying, I made each stage in the evening and on horseback,
leaving my wife to proceed at her leisure. In this way I was able, by taking rough paths, to
do in two or three hours a distance which her coaches had scarcely covered in the day; but
on the third evening, intending to make a short cut by a ford on the Vaucouleurs, I found,
to my chagrin, the advantage on the other side, the ford, when I reached it at sunset, proving
impracticable.  As there was every prospect, however, that the water would fall within a few
hours, I determined not to retrace my steps; but to wait where I was until morning, and complete
my journey to Houdan in the early hours.

There was a poor inn near the ford, a mere hovel of wood on a brick foundation, yet with two
storeys.  I made my way to this with Maignan and La Trape, who formed, with two grooms, my
only attendance; but on coming near the house, and looking about with a curious eye, I remarked
something which fixed my attention, and, for the moment, brought me to a halt.  This was the
spectacle of three horses, of fair quality, feeding in a field of growing corn, which was the
only enclosure near the inn.  They were trampling and spoiling more than they ate; and, supposing
that they had strayed into the place, and the house showing no signs of life, I bade my grooms
fetch them out.  The sun was about setting, and I stood a moment watching the long shadows
of the men as they plodded through the corn, and the attitudes of the horses as, with heads
raised, they looked doubtfully at the newcomers.

Suddenly a man came round the corner of the house, and seeing us, and what my men were doing,
began to gesticulate violently, but without sound.  The grooms saw him too, and stood; and
he ran up to my stirrup, his face flushed and sullen.

"Do you want to see us all ruined?"  he muttered.  And he begged me to call my men out of the corn.

"You are more likely to be ruined that way," I answered, looking down at him.  "Why, man, is
it the custom in your country to turn horses into the half-ripe corn?"

He shook his fist stealthily.  "God forbid!"  he said.  "But the devil is within doors, and
we must do his bidding."

"Ah!"  I replied, my curiosity aroused "I should like to see him."

The boor shaded his eyes, and looked at me sulkily from under his matted and tangled hair.
"You are not of his company?"  he said with suspicion.

"I hope not," I answered, smiling at his simplicity.  "But your corn is your own.  I will call
the men out."  On which I made a sign to them to return.  "Now," I said, as I walked my horse
slowly towards the house, while he tramped along beside me, "who is within?"

"M. Gringuet," he said, with another stealthy gesture.

"Ah!"  I said, "I am afraid that I am no wiser."

"The tax-gatherer."

"Oh!  And those are his horses?"  He nodded.

"Still, I do not see why they are in the corn?"

"I have no hay."

"But there is grass."

"Ay," the inn-keeper answered bitterly.

"And he said that I might eat it.  It was not good enough for his horses.  They must have hay
or corn; and if I had none, so much the worse for me."

Full of indignation, I made in my mind a note of M. Gringuet's name; but at the moment I said
no more, and we proceeded to the house, the exterior of which, though meagre, and even miserable,
gave me an impression of neatness.  From the inside, however, a hoarse, continuous noise was
issuing, which resolved itself as we crossed the threshold into a man's voice.  The speaker
was out of sight, in an upper room to which a ladder gave access, but his oaths, complaints,
and imprecations almost shook the house.  A middle-aged woman, scantily dressed, was busy on
the hearth; but perhaps that which, next to the perpetual scolding that was going on above,
most took my attention was a great lump of salt that stood on the table at the woman's elbow,
and seemed to be evidence of greater luxury--for the GABELLE had not at that time been reduced--than
I could easily associate with the place.

The roaring and blustering continuing upstairs, I stood a moment in sheer astonishment.  "Is
that M. Gringuet?"  I said at last.

The inn-keeper nodded sullenly, while his wife stared at me. "But what; is the matter with
him?"  I said.

"The gout.  But for that he would have been gone these two days to collect at Le Mesnil."

"Ah!"  I answered, beginning to understand.  "And the salt is for a bath for his feet, is it?"

The woman nodded.

"Well," I said, as Maignan came in with my saddlebags and laid them on the floor, "he will
swear still louder when he gets the bill, I should think."

"Bill?"  the housewife answered bitterly, looking up again from her pots.  "A tax-gatherer's
bill?  Go to the dead man and ask for the price of his coffin; or to the babe for a nurse-fee!
You will get paid as soon.  A tax-gatherer's bill?  Be thankful if he does not take the dish
with the sop!"

She spoke plainly; yet I found a clearer proof of the slavery in which the man held them in
the perfect indifference with which they regarded my arrival--though a guest with two servants
must have been a rarity in such a place--and the listless way in which they set about attending
to my wants.  Keenly remembering that not long before this my enemies had striven to prejudice
me in the King's eyes by alleging that, though I filled his coffers, I was grinding the poor
into the dust--and even, by my exactions, provoking a rebellion I was in no mood to look with
an indulgent eye on those who furnished such calumnies with a show of reason. But it has never
been my wont to act hastily; and while I stood in the middle of the kitchen, debating whether
I should order the servants to fling the fellow out, and bid him appear before me at Villebon,
or should instead have him brought up there and then, the man's coarse voice, which had never
ceased to growl and snarl above us, rose on a sudden still louder.  Something fell on the floor
over our heads and rolled across it; and immediately a young girl, barefoot and short-skirted,
scrambled hurriedly and blindly down the ladder and landed among us.

She was sobbing, and a little blood was flowing from a cut in her lip; and she trembled all
over.  At sight of the blood and her tears the woman seemed to be transported.  Snatching up
a saucepan, she sprang towards the ladder with a gesture of rage, and in a moment would have
ascended if her husband had not followed and dragged her back.  The girl also, as soon as she
could speak, added her entreaties to his, while Maignan and La Trape looked sharply at me,
as if they expected a signal.

All this while, the bully above continued his maledictions. "Send that slut back to me!"  he
roared.  "Do you think that I am going to be left alone in this hole?  Send her back, or--"
and he added half-a-dozen oaths of a kind to make an honest man's blood boil.  In the midst
of this, however, and while the woman was still contending with her husband, he suddenly stopped
and shrieked in anguish, crying out for the salt-bath.

But the woman, whom her husband had only half-pacified, shook her fist at the ceiling with
a laugh of defiance.  "Shriek; ay, you may shriek, you wretch!"  she cried.  "You must be waited
on by my girl, must you--no older face will do for you--and you beat her?  Your horses must
eat corn, must they, while we eat grass? And we buy salt for you, and wheaten bread for you,
and are beggars for you!  For you, you thieving wretch, who tax the poor and let the rich go
free; who--"

"Silence, woman!"  her husband cried, cutting her short, with a pale face.  "Hush, hush; he
will hear you!"

But the woman was too far gone in rage to obey.  "What!  and is it not true?"  she answered,
her eyes glittering.  "Will he not to-morrow go to Le Mesnil and squeeze the poor?  Ay, and
will not Lescauts the corn-dealer, and Philippon the silk-merchant, come to him with bribes,
and go free?  And de Fonvelle and de Curtin--they with a DE, forsooth!--plead their nobility,
and grease his hands, and go free? Ay, and--"

"Silence, woman!"  the man said again, looking apprehensively at me, and from me to my attendants,
who were grinning broadly. "You do not know that this gentleman is not--"

"A tax-gatherer?"  I said, smiling.  "No.  But how long has your friend upstairs been here?"

"Two days, Monsieur," she answered, wiping the perspiration from her brow, and speaking more
quietly.  "He is talking of sending on a deputy to Le Mesnil; but Heaven send he may recover,
and go from here himself!"

"Well," I answered, "at any rate, we have had enough of this noise.  My servant shall go up
and tell him that there is a gentleman here who cannot put up with a disturbance.  Maignan,"
I continued, "see the man, and tell him that the inn is not his private house, and that he
must groan more softly; but do not mention my name.  And let him have his brine bath, or there
will be no peace for anyone."

Maignan and La Trape, who knew me, and had counted on a very different order, stared at me,
wondering at my easiness and complaisance; for there is a species of tyranny, unassociated
with rank, that even the coarsest view with indignation.  But the woman's statement, which,
despite its wildness and her excitement, I saw no reason to doubt, had suggested to me a scheme
of punishment more refined; and which might, at one and the same time, be of profit to the
King's treasury and a lesson to Gringuet.  To carry it through I had to submit to some inconvenience,
and particularly to a night passed under the same roof with the rogue; but as the news that
a traveller of consequence was come had the effect, aided by a few sharp words from Maignan,
of lowering his tone, and forcing him to keep within bounds, I was able to endure this and
overlook the occasional outbursts of spleen which his disease and pampered temper still drew
from him.

His two men, who had been absent on an errand at the time of my arrival, presently returned,
and were doubtless surprised to find a second company in possession.  They tried my attendants
with a number of questions, but without success; while I, by listening while I had my supper,
learned more of their master's habits and intentions than they supposed.  They suspected nothing,
and at day-break we left them; and, the water having duly fallen in the night, we crossed the
river without mishap, and for a league pursued our proper road.  Then I halted, and despatching
the two grooms to Houdan with a letter for my wife, I took, myself, the road to Le Mesnil,
which lies about three leagues to the west.

At a little inn, a league short of Le Mesnil, I stopped, and instructing my two attendants
in the parts they were to play, prepared, with the help of the seals, which never left Maignan's
custody, the papers necessary to enable me to enact the role of Gringuet's deputy. Though I
had been two or three times to Villebon, I had never been within two leagues of Le Mesnil,
and had no reason to suppose that I should be recognised; but to lessen the probability of
this I put on a plain suit belonging to Maignan, with a black-hilted sword, and no ornaments.
I furthermore waited to enter the town until evening, so that my presence, being reported,
might be taken for granted before I was seen.

In a larger place my scheme must have miscarried, but in this little town on the hill, looking
over the plain of vineyards and cornfields, with inn, market-house, and church in the square,
and on the fourth side the open battlements, whence the towers of Chartres could be seen on
a clear day, I looked to have to do only with small men, and saw no reason why it should fail.

Accordingly, riding up to the inn about sunset, I called, with an air, for the landlord.  There
were half-a-dozen loungers seated in a row on a bench before the door, and one of these went
in to fetch him.  When the host came out, with his apron twisted round his waist, I asked him
if he had a room.

"Yes," he said, shading his eyes to look at me, "I have."

"Very well," I answered pompously, considering that I had just such an audience as I desired--by
which I mean one that, without being too critical, would spread the news.  "I am M. Gringuet's
deputy, and I am here with authority to collect and remit, receive and give receipts for, his
Majesty's taxes, tolls, and dues, now, or to be, due and owing.  Therefore, my friend, I will
trouble you to show me to my room."

I thought that this announcement would impress him as much as I desired; but, to my surprise,
he only stared at me.  "Eh!"  he exclaimed at last, in a faltering tone, "M. Gringuet's deputy?"

"Yes," I said, dismounting somewhat impatiently; "he is ill with the gout and cannot come."

"And you--are his deputy?"

"I have said so."

Still he did not move to do my bidding, but continued to rub his bald head and stare at me
as if I fascinated him.  "Well, I am--I mean--I think we are full," he stammered at last, with
his eyes like saucers.

I replied, with some impatience, that he had just said that he had a room; adding, that if
I was not in it and comfortably settled before five minutes were up I would know the reason.
I thought that this would settle the matter, whatever maggot had got into the man's head; and,
in a way, it did so, for he begged my pardon hastily, and made way for me to enter, calling,
at the same time, to a lad who was standing by, to attend to the horses. But when we were inside
the door, instead of showing me through the kitchen to my room, he muttered something, and
hurried away; leaving me to wonder what was amiss with him, and why the loungers outside, who
had listened with all their ears to our conversation, had come in after us as far as they dared,
and were regarding us with an odd mixture of suspicion and amusement.

The landlord remained long away, and seemed, from sounds that came to my ears, to be talking
with someone in a distant room. At length, however, he returned, bearing a candle and followed
by a serving-man. I asked him roughly why he had been so long, and began to rate him; but he
took the words out of my mouth by his humility, and going before me through the kitchen--where
his wife and two or three maids who were about the fire stopped to look at us, with the basting
spoons in their hands--he opened a door which led again into the outer air.

"It is across the yard," he said apologetically, as he went before, and opening a second door,
stood aside for us to enter. "But it is a good room, and, if you please, a fire shall be lighted.
The shutters are closed," he continued, as we passed him, Maignan and La Trape carrying my
baggage, "but they shall be opened.  Hallo!  Pierre!  Pierre, there! Open these shut--"

On the word his voice rose--and broke; and in a moment the door, through which we had all passed
unsuspecting, fell to with a crash behind us.  Before we could move we heard the bars drop
across it.  A little before, La Trape had taken a candle from someone's hand to light me the
better; and therefore we were not in darkness.  But the light this gave only served to impress
on us what the falling bars and the rising sound of voices outside had already told us--that
we were outwitted!  We were prisoners.

The room in which we stood, looking foolishly at one another, was a great barn-like chamber,
with small windows high in the unplaistered walls.  A long board set on trestles, and two or
three stools placed round it--on the occasion, perhaps, of some recent festivity--had for a
moment deceived us, and played the landlord's game.

In the first shock of the discovery, hearing the bars drop home, we stood gaping, and wondering
what it meant.  Then Maignan, with an oath, sprang to the door and tried it--fruitlessly.

I joined him more at my leisure, and raising my voice, asked angrily what this folly meant.
"Open the door there!  Do you hear, landlord?" I cried.

No one moved, though Maignan continued to rattle the door furiously.

"Do you hear?"  I repeated, between anger and amazement at the fix in which we had placed ourselves.
"Open!"

But, although the murmur of voices outside the door grew louder, no one answered, and I had
time to take in the full absurdity of the position; to measure the height; of the windows with
my eye and plumb the dark shadows under the rafters, where the feebler rays of our candle lost
themselves; to appreciate, in a word, the extent of our predicament. Maignan was furious, La
Trape vicious, while my own equanimity scarcely supported me against the thought that we should
probably be where we were until the arrival of my people, whom I had directed my wife to send
to Le Mesnil at noon next day.  Their coming would free us, indeed, but at the cost of ridicule
and laughter.  Never was man worse placed.

Wincing at the thought, I bade Maignan be silent; and, drumming on the door myself, I called
for the landlord.  Someone who had been giving directions in a tone of great, consequence ceased
speaking, and came close to the door.  After listening a moment, he struck it with his hand.

"Silence, rogues!"  he cried.  "Do you hear?  Silence there, unless you want your ears nailed
to the post."

"Fool!"  I answered.  "Open the door instantly!  Are you all mad here, that you shut up the
King's servants in this way?"

"The King's servants!" he cried, jeering at us.  "Where are they?"

"Here!"  I answered, swallowing my rage as well as I might.  "I am M. Gringuet's deputy, and
if you do not this instant--"

"M. Gringuet's deputy!  Ho!  ho!"  he said.  "Why, you fool, M. Gringuet's deputy arrived two
hours before you.  You must get up a little earlier another time.  They are poor tricksters
who are too late for the fair.  And now be silent, and it may save you a stripe or two to-morrow."

There are situations in which even the greatest find it hard to maintain their dignity, and
this was one.  I looked at Maignan and La Trape, and they at me, and by the light of the lanthorn
which the latter held I saw that they were smiling, doubtless at the dilemma in which we had
innocently placed ourselves.  But I found nothing to laugh at in the position; since the people
outside might at any moment leave us where we were to fast until morning; and, after a moment's
reflection, I called out to know who the speaker on the other side was.

"I am M. de Fonvelle," he answered.

"Well, M. de Fonvelle," I replied, "I advise you to have a care what you do.  I am M. Gringuet's
deputy.  The other man is an impostor."

He laughed.

"He has no papers," I cried.

"Oh, yes, he has!"  he answered, mocking me.  "M. Curtin has seen them, my fine fellow, and
he is not one to pay money without warrant."

At this several laughed, and a quavering voice chimed in with "Oh, yes, he has papers!  I have
seen them.  Still, in a case--"

"There!"  M. Fonvelle cried, drowning the other's words.  "Now are you satisfied--you in there?"

But M. Curtin had not done.  "He has papers," he piped again in his thin voice.

"Still, M. de Fonvelle, it is well to be cautious, and--"

"Tut, tut!  it is all right."

"He has papers, but he has no authority!"  I shouted.

"He has seals," Fonvelle answered.  "It is all right."

"It is all wrong!"  I retorted.  "Wrong, I say!  Go to your man, and you will find him gone--gone
with your money, M. Curtin."

Two or three laughed, but I heard the sound of feet hurrying away, and I guessed that Curtin
had retired to satisfy himself. Nevertheless, the moment which followed was an anxious one,
since, if my random shot missed, I knew that I should find myself in a worse position than
before.  But judging--from the fact that the deputy had not confronted us himself--that he
was an impostor, to whom Gringuet's illness had suggested the scheme on which I had myself
hit, I hoped for the best; and, to be sure, in a moment an outcry arose in the house and quickly
spread.  Of those at the door, some cried to their fellows to hearken, while others hastened
off to see.  Yet still a little time elapsed, during which I burned with impatience; and then
the crowd came trampling back, all wrangling and speaking at once.

At the door the chattering ceased, and, a hand being laid on the bar, in a moment the door
was thrown open, and I walked out with what dignity I might.  Outside, the scene which met
my eyes might have been, under other circumstances, diverting.  Before me stood the landlord
of the inn, bowing with a light in each hand, as if the more he bent his backbone the more
he must propitiate me; while a fat, middle-aged man at his elbow, whom I took to be Fonvelle,
smiled feebly at me with a chapfallen expression.  A little aside, Curtin, a shrivelled old
fellow, was wringing his hands over his loss; and behind and round these, peeping over their
shoulders and staring under their arms, clustered a curious crowd of busybodies, who, between
amusement at the joke and awe of the great men, had much ado to control their merriment.

The host began to mutter apologies, but I cut him short.  "I will talk to you to-morrow!" 
I said, in a voice which made him shake in his shoes.  "Now give me supper, lights, and a room--and
hurry.  For you, M. Fonvelle, you are an ass!  And for the gentleman there, who has filled
the rogue's purse, he will do well another time to pay the King his dues!"

With that I left the two--Fonvelle purple with indignation, and Curtin with eyes and mouth
agape and tears stayed--and followed my host to his best room, Maignan and La Trape attending
me with very grim faces. Here the landlord would have repeated his apologies, but my thoughts
beginning to revert to the purpose which had brought me hither, I affected to be offended,
that, by keeping all at a distance, I might the more easily preserve my character.

I succeeded so well that, though half the town, through which the news of my adventure had
spread, as fire spreads in tinder, were assembled outside the inn until a late hour, no one
was admitted to see me; and when I made my appearance next morning in the market-place and
took my seat, with my two attendants, at a table by the corn-measures, this reserve had so
far impressed the people that the smiles which greeted me scarcely exceeded those which commonly
welcome a tax-collector. Some had paid, and, foreseeing the necessity of paying again, found
little that was diverting in the jest.  Others thought it no laughing matter to pay once; and
a few had come as ill out of the adventure as I had.  Under these circumstances, we quickly
settled to work, no one entertaining the slightest suspicion; and La Trape, who could accommodate
himself to anything, playing the part of clerk, I was presently receiving money and hearing
excuses; the minute acquaintance with the routine of the finances, which I had made it my business
to acquire, rendering the work easy to me.

We had not been long engaged, however, when Fonvelle put in an appearance, and elbowing the
peasants aside, begged to speak with me apart.  I rose and stepped back with him two or three
paces; on which he winked at me in a very knowing fashion, "I am M. de Fonvelle," he said.
And he winked again.

"Ah!"  I said.

"My name is not in your list."

"I find it there," I replied, raising a hand to my ear.

"Tut, tut!  you do not understand," he muttered.  "Has not Gringuet told you?"

"What?"  I said, pretending to be a little deaf.

"Has not--"

I shook my head.

"Has not Gringuet told you?"  he repeated, reddening with anger; and this time speaking, on
compulsion, so loudly that the peasants could hear him.

I answered him in the same tone.  "Yes," I said roundly.  "He has told me; of course, that
every year you give him two hundred livres to omit your name."

He glanced behind him with an oath.  "Man, are you mad?"  he gasped, his jaw falling.  "They
will hear you."

"Yes," I said loudly, "I mean them to hear me."

I do not know what he thought of this--perhaps that I was mad--but he staggered back from me,
and looked wildly round.  Finding everyone laughing, he looked again at me, but still failed
to understand; on which, with another oath, he turned on his heel, and forcing his way through
the grinning crowd, was out of sight in a moment.

I was about to return to my seat, when a pursy, pale-faced man, with small eyes and a heavy
jowl, whom I had before noticed, pushed his way through the line, and came to me.  Though his
neighbours were all laughing he was sober, and in a moment I understood why.

"I am very deaf," he said in a whisper.  "My name, Monsieur, is Philippon.  I am a--"

I made a sign to him that I could not hear.

"I am the silk merchant," he continued pretty audibly, but with a suspicious glance behind
him.  "Probably you have--"

Again I signed to him that I could not hear.

"You have heard of me?"

"From M. Gringuet?"  I said very loudly.

"Yes," he answered in a similar tone; for, aware that deaf persons cannot hear their own voices
and are seldom able to judge how loudly they are speaking, I had led him to this.  "And I suppose
that you will do as he did?"

"How?"  I asked.  "In what way?"

He touched his pocket with a stealthy gesture, unseen by the people behind him.

Again I made a sign as if I could not hear.

"Take the usual little gift?"  he said, finding himself compelled to speak.

"I cannot hear a word," I bellowed.  By this time the crowd were shaking with laughter.

"Accept the usual gift?"  he said, his fat, pale face perspiring, and his little pig's eyes
regarding me balefully.

"And let you pay one quarter?"  I said.

"Yes," he answered.

But this, and the simplicity with which he said it, drew so loud a roar of laughter from the
crowd as penetrated even to his dulled senses. Turning abruptly, as if a bee had stung him,
he found the place convulsed with merriment; and perceiving, in an instant, that I had played
upon him, though he could not understand how or why, he glared about him a moment, muttered
something which I could not catch, and staggered away with the gait of a drunken man.

After this, it was useless to suppose that I could amuse myself with others.  The crowd, which
had never dreamed of such a tax-collector, and could scarcely believe either eyes or ears,
hesitated to come forward even to pay; and I was considering what I should do next, when a
commotion in one corner of the square drew my eyes to that quarter. I looked and saw at first
only Curtin.  Then, the crowd dividing and making way for him, I perceived that he had the
real Gringuet with him--Gringuet, who rode through the market with an air of grim majesty,
with one foot in a huge slipper and eyes glaring with ill-temper.

Doubtless Curtin, going to him on the chance of hearing something of the rogue who had cheated
him, had apprised the tax-collector of the whole matter; for on seeing me in my chair of state,
he merely grinned in a vicious way, and cried to the nearest not to let me escape.  "We have
lost one rogue, but we will hang the other," he said.  And while the townsfolk stood dumbfounded
round us, he slipped with a groan from his horse, and bade his two servants seize me.

"And do you," he called to the host, "see that you help, my man! You have harboured him, and
you shall pay for it if he escapes."

With that he hopped a step nearer; and then, not dreaming of resistance, sank with another
groan--for his foot was immensely swollen by the journey--into the chair from which I had risen.

A glance showed me that, if I would not be drawn into an unseemly brawl, I must act; and meeting
Maignan's eager eye fixed upon my face, I nodded.  In a second he seized the unsuspecting Gringuet
by the neck, snatched him up from the chair, and flung him half-a-dozen paces away. "Lie there,"
he cried, "you insolent rascal! Who told you to sit before your betters?"

The violence of the action, and Maignan's heat, were such that the nearest drew back affrighted;
and even Gringuet's servants recoiled, while the market people gasped with astonishment.  But
I knew that the respite would last a moment only, and I stood forward.  "Arrest that man,"
I said, pointing to the collector, who was grovelling on the ground, nursing his foot and shrieking
foul threats at us.

In a second my two men stood over him.  "In the King's name," La Trape cried; "let no man interfere."

"Raise him up," I continued, "and set him before me; and Curtin also, and Fonvelle, and Philippon;
and Lescaut, the corn-dealer, if he is here."

I spoke boldly, but I felt some misgiving.  So mighty, however, is the habit of command, that
the crowd, far from resisting, thrust forward the men I named.  Still, I could not count on
this obedience, and it was with pleasure that I saw at this moment, as I looked over the heads
of the crowd, a body of horsemen entering the square.  They halted an instant, looking at the
unusual concourse; while the townsfolk, interrupted in the middle of the drama, knew not which
way to stare. Then Boisrueil, seeing me, and that I was holding some sort of court, spurred
his horse through the press, and saluted me.

"Let half-a-dozen of your varlets dismount and guard these men," I said; "and do you, you rogue,"
I continued, addressing Gringuet, "answer me, and tell me the truth.  How much does each of
these knaves give you to cheat the King, and your master? Curtin first.  How much does he give
you?"

"My lord," he answered, pale and shaking, yet with a mutinous gleam in his eyes, "I have a
right to know first before whom I stand."

"Enough," I thundered, "that it is before one who has the right to question you!  answer me,
villain, and be quick.  What is the sum of Curtin's bribe?"

He stood white and mute.

"Fonvelle's?"

Still he stood silent, glaring with the devil in his eyes; while the other men whimpered and
protested their innocence, and the crowd stared as if they could never see enough.

"Philippon's?"

"I take no bribes," he muttered.

"Lescaut's?"

"Not a denier."

"Liar!"  I exclaimed.  "Liar, who devour widows' houses and poor men's corn!  Who grind the
weak and say it is the King; and let the rich go free.  Answer me, and answer the truth.  How
much do these men give you?"

"Nothing," he said defiantly.

"Very well," I answered; "then I will have the list.  It is in your shoe."

"I have no list," he said, beginning to tremble.

"It is in your shoe," I repeated, pointing to his gouty foot. "Maignan, off with his shoe,
and look in it."

Disregarding his shrieks of pain, they tore it off and looked in it. There was no list.

"Off with his stocking," I said roundly.

"It is there."

He flung himself down at that, cursing and protesting by turns. But I remembered the trampled
corn, and the girl's bleeding face, and I was inexorable.  The stocking was drawn off, not
too tenderly, and turned inside out.  Still no list was found.

"He has it," I persisted.  "We have tried the shoe and we have tried the stocking, now we must
try the foot.  Fetch a stirrup-leather, and do you hold him, and let one of the grooms give
him a dozen on that foot."

But at that he gave way; he flung himself on his knees, screaming for mercy.

"The list!"  I said,

"I have no list!  I have none!"  he wailed.

"Then give it me out of your head.  Curtin, how much?"

He glanced at the man I named, and shivered, and for a moment was silent.  But one of the grooms
approaching with the stirrup-leather, he found his voice.  "Forty crowns," he muttered.

"Fonvelle?"

"The same."

I made him confess also the sums which he had received from Lescaut and Philippon, and then
the names of seven others who had been in the habit of bribing him.  Satisfied that he had
so far told the truth, I bade him put on his stocking and shoe.  "And now," I said to Boisrueil,
when this was done, "take him to the whipping-post there, and tie him up; and see that each
man of the eleven gives him a stripe for every crown with which he has bribed him--and good
ones, or I will have them tied up in his place.  Do you hear, you rascals?"  I continued to
the trembling culprits.  "Off, and do your duty, or I will have your backs bare."

But the wretch, as cowardly as he had been cruel, flung himself down and crawled, sobbing and
crying, to my feet.  I had no mercy, however. "Take him away," I said, "It is such men as these
give kings a bad name.  Take him away, and see you flay him well."

He sprang up then, forgetting his gout, and made a frantic attempt to escape.  But in a moment
he was overcome, hauled away, and tied up; and though I did not wait to see the sentence carried
out, but entered the inn, the shrill screams he uttered under the punishment reached me, even
there, and satisfied me that Fonvelle and his fellows were not; holding their hands.

It is a sad reflection, however, that for one such sinner brought to justice ten, who commit
the same crimes, go free, and flourishing on iniquity, bring the King's service, and his officers,
into evil repute.

XI.

THE CAT AND THE KING.

It was in the spring of the year 1609 that at the King's instance I had a suite of apartments
fitted up for him at the Arsenal, that he might visit me, whenever it pleased him, without
putting my family to inconvenience; in another place will be found an account of the six thousand
crowns a year which he was so obliging as to allow me for this purpose.  He honoured me by
using these rooms, which consisted of a hall, a chamber, a wardrobe, and a closet, two or three
times in the course of that year, availing himself of my attendants and cook; and the free
opportunities of consulting me on the Great Undertaking, which this plan afforded, led me to
hope that notwithstanding the envy of my detractors, he would continue to adopt it.  That he
did not do so, nor ever visited me after the close of that year, was due not so much to the
lamentable event, soon to be related, which within a few months deprived France of her greatest
sovereign, as to a strange matter that attended his last stay with me.  I have since had cause
to think that this did not receive at the time as much attention as it deserved; and have even
imagined that had I groped a little deeper into the mystery I might have found a clue to the
future as well as the past, and averted one more, and the last, danger from my beloved master.
But Providence would not have it so; a slight indisposition under which I was suffering at
the time rendered me less able, both in mind and body; the result being that Henry, who was
always averse to the publication of these ominous episodes, and held that being known they
bred the like in mischievous minds, had his way, the case ending in no more than the punishment
of a careless rascal.

On the occasion of this last visit--the third, I think, that he paid me--the King, who had
been staying at Chantilly, came to me from Lusarche, where he lay the intervening night.  My
coaches went to meet him at the gates a little before noon, but he did not immediately arrive,
and being at leisure and having assured myself that the dinner of twelve covers, which he had
directed to be ready, was in course of preparation, I went with my wife to inspect his rooms
and satisfy myself that everything was in order.

They were in charge of La Trape, a man of address and intelligence, whom I have had cause to
mention more than once in the course of these memoirs.  He met me at the door and conducted
us through the rooms with an air of satisfaction; nor could I find the slightest fault, until
my wife, looking about her with a woman's eye for minute things, paused by the bed in the chamber,
and directed my attention to something on the floor.

She stooped over it.  "What is this?"  she asked.  "Has something been--"

"Upset here?"  I said, looking also.  There was a little pool of white liquid on the floor
beside the bed.

La Trape uttered an exclamation of annoyance, and explained that he had not seen it before;
that it had not been there five minutes earlier; and that he did not know how it came to be
there now.

"What is it?"  I said, looking about for some pitcher that might; have overflowed; but finding
none.  "Is it milk?"

"I don't know, your excellency," he answered.  "But it shall be removed at once."

"See that it is," I said.  "Are the boughs in the fire-place fresh?" For the weather was still
warm and we had not lit a fire.

"Yes, your excellency; quite fresh."

"Well, see to that, and remove it," I said, pointing to the mess. "It looks ill."

And with that the matter passed from my mind; the more completely as I heard at that moment
the sound of the King's approach, and went into the court-yard to receive him.  He brought
with him Roquelaure, de Vic, Erard the engineer, and some others, but none whom he did not
know that I should be glad to receive.  He dined well, and after dinner amused himself with
seeing the young men ride at the ring, and even rode a course himself with his usual skill;
that being, if I remember rightly, the last occasion on which I ever saw him take a lance.
Before supper he walked for a time in the hall, with Sillery, for whom he had sent; and after
supper, pronouncing himself tired, he dismissed all, and retired with me to his chamber.  Here
we had some talk on a subject that I greatly dreaded--I mean his infatuation for Madame de
Conde; but about eleven o'clock he yawned, and, after thanking me for a reception which he
said was quite to his mind, he bade me go to bed.

I was half way to the door when he called me back.  "Why, Grand Master," he said, pointing
to the little table by the head of the bed on which his night drinks stood, "you might be going
to drown me.  Do you expect me to drink all these in the night?"

"I think that there is only your posset, sire," I said, "and the lemon-water which you generally
drink."

"And two or three other things?"

"Perhaps they have given your majesty some of the Arbois wine that you were good enough to--"

"Tut-tut!" he said, lifting the cover of one of the cups.  "This is not wine.  It may be a
milk-posset."

"Yes, sire; very likely," I said drowsily.

"But it is not!" he answered, when he had smelled it.  "It is plain milk!  Come, my friend,"
he continued, looking drolly at me, "have you turned leech, or I babe is arms that you put
such strong liquors before me?  However, to show you that I have some childish tastes left,
and am not so depraved as you have been trying to make me out for the last hour--I will drink
your health in it.  It would serve you right if I made you pledge me in the same liquor!"

The cup was at his lips when I sprang forward and, heedless of ceremony, caught his arm.  "Pardon,
sire!" I cried, in sudden agitation.  "If that is milk, I gave no order that it should be placed
here; and I know nothing of its origin.  I beg that you will not drink it, until I have made
some inquiry."

"They have all been tasted?"  he asked, still holding the cup in his hand with the lid raised,
but looking at it gravely.

"They should have been!" I answered.  "But La Trape, whom I made answerable for that, is outside.
I will go and question him.  If you will wait, sire, a moment--"

"No," Henry said.  "Have him here."

I gave the order to the pages who were waiting outside, and in a moment La Trape appeared,
looking startled and uncomfortable. Naturally, his first glance was given to the King, who
had taken his seat on the edge of the bed, but still held the cup in his hand.  After asking
the King's permission, I said, "What drinks did you place on the table, here, sirrah?"

He looked more uncomfortable at this, but he answered boldly enough that he had served a posset,
some lemon water, and some milk.

"But orders were given only for the lemon-water and the posset," I said.

"True, your excellency," he answered.  "But when I went to the pantry hatch, to see the under-butler
carry up the tray, I found that the milk was on the tray; and I supposed that you had given
another order."

"Possibly Madame de Sully," the King said, looking at me, "gave the order to add it?"

"She would not presume to do so, sire," I answered, sternly. "Nor do I in the least understand
the matter.  But at one thing we can easily arrive.  You tasted all of these, man?"

La Trape said he had.

"You drank a quantity, a substantial quantity of each--according to the orders given to you?
I persisted.

"Yes, your excellency."

But I caught a guilty look in his eyes, and in a gust of rage I cried out that he lied.  "The
truth!" I thundered, in a terrible voice.  "The truth, you villain; you did not taste all?"

"I did, your excellency; as God is above, I did!" he answered. But he had grown pale, and he
looked at the King in a terrified way.

"You did?"

"Yes!"

Yet I did not believe him, and I was about to give him the lie again, when the King intervened.
"Quite so," he said to La Trape with a smile.  "You drank, my good fellow, of the posset and
the lemon water, and you tasted the milk, but you did not drink of it.  Is not that the whole
truth?"

"Yes, sire," he whimpered, breaking down.  "But I--I gave some to a cat."

"And the cat is no worse?"

"No, sire."

"There, Grand Master," the King said, turning to me, "that is the truth, I think.  What do
you say to it?"

"That the rest is simple," I answered, grimly.  "He did not drink it before; but he will drink
it now, sire."

The King, sitting on the bed, laughed and looked at La Trape; as if his good-nature almost
led him to interpose.  But after a moment's hesitation he thought better of it, and handed
me the cup.  "Very well," he said; "he is your man.  Have your way with him.  After all, he
should have drunk it."

"He shall drink it now, or be broken on the wheel!" I said.  "Do you hear, you?"  I continued,
turning to him in a white heat of rage at the thought of his negligence, and the price it might
have cost me.  "Take it, and beware that you do not drop or spill it.  For I swear that that
shall not save you!"

He took the cup with a pale face, and hands that shook so much that he needed both to support
the vessel.  He hesitated, too, so long that, had I not possessed the best of reasons for believing
in his fidelity, I should have suspected him of more than negligence.  The shadow of his tall
figure seemed to waver on the tapestry behind him; and with a little imagination I might have
thought that the lights in the room had sunk.  The soft whispering of the pages outside could
be heard, and a stifled laugh; but inside there was not a sound.  He carried the cup to his
lips; then he lowered it again.

I took a step forward.

He recoiled a pace, his face ghastly.  "Patience, excellency," he said, hoarsely.  "I shall
drink it.  But I want to speak first."

"Speak!" the King answered.

"If there is death in it, I take God to witness that I know nothing, and knew nothing!  There
is some witch's work here it is not the first time that I have come across this devil's milk
to-day!  But I take God to witness I know nothing!  Now it is here I will drink it, and--"

He did not finish the sentence, but drawing a deep breath raised the cup to his lips.  I saw
the apple in his throat rise and fall with the effort he made to swallow, but he drank so slowly
that it seemed to me that he would never drain the cap.  Nor did he, for when he had swallowed,
as far as I could judge from the tilting of the cup, about half of the milk, Henry rose suddenly
and, seizing it, took it from him with his own hand.

"That will do," the King said.  "Do you feel ill?"

La Trape drew a trembling hand across his brow, on which the sweat stood in beads; but instead
of answering he remained silent, gazing fixedly before him.  We waited and watched, and at
length, when I should think three minutes had elapsed, he changed his position for one of greater
ease, and I saw his face relax. The unnatural pallor faded, and the open lips closed.  A minute
later he spoke.  "I feel nothing, sire," he said.

The King looked at me drolly.  "Then take five minutes more," he said. "Go, and stare at Judith
there, cutting off the head of Holofernes"--for that was the story of the tapestry--"and come
when I call you."

La Trape went to the other end of the chamber.  "Well," the King said, inviting me by a sign
to sit down beside him, "is it a comedy or a tragedy, my friend?  Or, tell me, what was it
he meant when he said that about the other milk?"

I explained, the matter seeming so trivial now that I came to tell it--though it; had doubtless
contributed much to La Trape's fright--that I had to apologize.

"Still it is odd," the King said.  "These drinks were not here, at that time, of course?"

"No, sire; they have been brought up within the hour."

"Well, your butler must explain it."  And with that he raised his voice and called La Trape
back; who came, looking red and sheepish.

"Not dead yet?"  the King said.

"No, sire."

"Nor ill?"

"No, sire."

"Then begone.  Or, stay!" Henry continued.  "Throw the rest of this stuff into the fire-place.
It may be harmless, but I have no mind to drink it by mistake."

La Trape emptied the cup among the green boughs that filled the hearth, and hastened to withdraw.
It seemed to be too late to make further inquiries that night; so after listening to two or
three explanations which the King hazarded, but which had all too fanciful an air in my eyes,
I took my leave and retired.

Whether, however, the scene had raised too violent a commotion in my mind, or I was already
sickening for the illness I have mentioned, I found it impossible to sleep; and spent the greater
part of the night in a fever of fears and forebodings.  The responsibility which the King's
presence cast upon me lay so heavily upon my waking mind that I could not lie; and long before
the King's usual hour of rising I was at his door inquiring how he did.  No one knew, for the
page whose turn it was to sleep at his feet had not come out; but while I stood questioning,
the King's voice was heard, bidding me enter.  I went in, and found him sitting up with a haggard
face, which told me, before he spoke, that he had slept little better than I had.  The shutters
were thrown wide open, and the cold morning light poured into the room with an effect rather
sombre than bright; the huge figures on the tapestry looming huger from a drab and melancholy
background, and the chamber presenting all those features of disorder that in a sleeping-room
lie hid at night, only to show themselves in a more vivid shape in the morning.

The King sent his page out, and bade me sit by him.  "I have had a bad night," he said, with
a shudder.  "Grand Master, I doubt that astrologer was right, and I shall never see Germany,
nor carry out my designs."

Seeing the state in which he was, I could think of nothing better than to rally him, and even
laugh at him.  "You think so now, sire," I said. "It is the cold hour.  By and by, when you
have broken your fast, you will think differently."

"But, it may be, less correctly," he answered; and as he sat looking before him with gloomy
eyes, he heaved a deep sigh.  "My friend," he said, mournfully, "I want to live, and I am going
to die."

"Of what?"  I asked, gaily.

"I do not know; but I dreamed last night that a house fell on me in the Rue de la Ferronerie,
and I cannot help thinking that I shall die in that way."

"Very well," I said.  "It is well to know that."

He asked me peevishly what I meant.

"Only," I explained, "that, in that case, as your Majesty need never pass through that street,
you have it in your hands to live for ever."

"Perhaps it may not happen there--in that very street," he answered.

"And perhaps it may not happen yet," I rejoined.  And then, more seriously, "Come, sire," I
continued, "why this sudden weakness? I have known you face death a hundred times."

"But not after such a dream as I had last night," he said, with a grimace--yet I could see
that he was already comforted.  "I thought that I was passing along that street in my coach,
and on a sudden, between St. Innocent's church and the notary's--there is a notary's there?"

"Yes, sire," I said, somewhat surprised.

"I heard a great roar, and something struck me down, and I found myself pinned to the ground,
in darkness, with my mouth full of dust, and an immense beam on my chest.  I lay for a time
in agony, fighting for breath, and then my brain seemed to burst in my head, and I awoke."

"I have had such a dream, sire," I said, drily.

"Last night?"

"No," I said, "not last night."

He saw what I meant, and laughed; and being by this time quite himself, left that and passed
to discussing the strange affair of La Trape and the milk.  "Have you found, as yet, who was
good enough to supply it?" he asked.

"No, sire," I answered.  "But I will see La Trape, and as soon as I have learned anything,
your majesty shall know it."

"I suppose he is not far off now," he suggested.  "Send for him. Ten to one he will have made
inquiries, and it will amuse us."

I went to the door and, opening it a trifle, bade the page who waited send La Trape.  He passed
on the message to a crowd of sleepy attendants, and quickly, but not before I had gone back
to the King's bedside, La Trape entered.

Having my eyes turned the other way, I did not at once remark anything. But the King did; and
his look of astonishment, no less than the exclamation which accompanied it, arrested my attention.
"St. Gris, man!" he cried.  "What is the matter? Speak!"

La Trape, who had stopped just within the door, made an effort to do so, but no sound passed
his lips; while his pallor and the fixed glare of his eyes filled me with the worst apprehensions.
It was impossible to look at him and not share his fright, and I stepped forward and cried
out to him to speak.  "Answer the King, man," I said.  "What is it?"

He made an effort, and with a ghastly grimace, "The cat is dead!" he said.

For a moment we were all silent.  Then I looked at the King, and he at me, with gloomy meaning
in our eyes.  He was the first to speak.  "The cat to whom you gave the milk?"  he said.

"Yes, sire," La Trape answered, in a voice that seemed to come from his heart.

"But still, courage!" the King cried.  "Courage, man!  A dose that would kill a cat may not
kill a man.  Do you feel ill?"

"Oh, yes, sire," La Trape moaned.

"What do you feel?"

"I have a trembling in all my limbs, and ah--ah, my God, I am a dead man!  I have a burning
here--a pain like hot coals in my vitals!" And, leaning against the wall, the unfortunate man
clasped his arms round his body and bent himself up and down in a paroxysm of suffering.

"A doctor!  a doctor!" Henry cried, thrusting one leg out of bed. "Send for Du Laurens!" Then,
as I went to the door to do so, "Can you be sick, man?"  he asked.  "Try!"

"No, no; it is impossible!"

"But try, try!  when did this cat die?"

"It is outside," La Trape groaned.  He could say no more.

I had opened the door by this time, and found the attendants, whom the man's cries had alarmed,
in a cluster round it. Silencing them sternly, I bade one go for M. Du Laurens, the King's
physician, while another brought me the cat that was dead.

The page who had spent the night in the King's chamber, fetched it.  I told him to bring it
in, and ordering the others to let the doctor pass when he arrived, I closed the door upon
their curiosity, and went back to the King.  He had left his bed and was standing near La Trape,
endeavouring to hearten him; now telling him to tickle his throat with a feather, and now watching
his sufferings in silence, with a face of gloom and despondency that sufficiently betrayed
his reflections.  At sight of the page, however, carrying the dead cat, he turned briskly,
and we both examined the beast which, already rigid, with staring eyes and uncovered teeth,
was not a sight to cheer anyone, much less the stricken man.  La Trape, however, seemed to
be scarcely aware of its presence.  He had sunk upon a chest which stood against the wall,
and, with his body strangely twisted, was muttering prayers, while he rocked himself to and
fro unceasingly.

"It's stiff," the King said in a low voice.  "It has been dead some hours."

"Since midnight," I muttered.

"Pardon, sire," the page, who was holding the cat, said; "I saw it after midnight.  It was
alive then."

"You saw it!" I exclaimed.  "How?  Where?"

"Here, your excellency," the boy answered, quailing a little.

"What?  In this room?"

"Yes, excellency.  I heard a noise about--I think about two o'clock--and his Majesty breathing
very heavily, It was a noise like a cat spitting.  It frightened me, and I rose from my pallet
and went round the bed.  I was just in time to see the cat jump down."

"From the bed?"

"Yes, your excellency.  From his Majesty's chest, I think."

"And you are sure that it was this cat?"

"Yes, sire; for as soon as it was on the floor it began to writhe and roll and bite itself,
with all its fur on end, like a mad cat.  Then it flew to the door and tried to get out, and
again began to spit furiously.  I thought that it would awaken the King, and I let it out."

"And then the King did awake?"

"He was just awaking, your excellency."

"Well, sire," I said, smiling, "this accounts, I think, for your dream of the house that fell,
and the beam that lay on your chest."

It would have been difficult to say whether at this the King looked more foolish or more relieved.
Whichever the sentiment he entertained, however, it was quickly cut short by a lamentable cry
that drove the blood from our cheeks.  La Trape was in another paroxysm.  "Oh, the poor man!"
Henry cried.

"I suppose that the cat came in unseen," I said; "with him last night, and then stayed in the
room?"

"Doubtless."

"And was seized with a paroxysm here?"

"Such as he has now!" Henry answered; for La Trape had fallen to the floor.  "Such as he has
now!" he repeated, his eyes flaming, his face pale.  "Oh, my friend, this is too much.  Those
who do these things are devils, not men.  Where is Du Laurens?  Where is the doctor?  He will
perish before our eyes."

"Patience, sire," I said.  "He will come."

"But in the meantime the man dies."

"No, no," I said, going to La Trape, and touching his hand. "Yet, he is very cold."  And turning,
I sent the page to hasten the doctor.  Then I begged the King to allow me to have the man conveyed
into another room. "His sufferings distress you, sire, and you do him no good," I said.

"No, he shall not go!" he answered.  "Ventre Saint Gris!  man, he is dying for me!  He is dying
in my place.  He shall die here."

Still ill satisfied, I was about to press him farther, when La Trape raised his voice, and
feebly asked for me.  A page who had taken the other's place was supporting his head, and two
or three of my gentlemen, who had come in unbidden, were looking on with scared faces. I went
to the poor fellow's side, and asked what I could do for him.

"I am dying!" he muttered, turning up his eyes.  "The doctor! the doctor!"

I feared that he was passing, but I bade him have courage.  "In a moment he will be here,"
I said; while the King in distraction sent messenger on messenger.

"He will come too late," the sinking man answered.  "Excellency?"

"Yes, my good fellow," I said, stooping that I might hear him the better.

"I took ten pistoles yesterday from a man to get him a scullion's place; and there is none vacant."

"It is forgiven," I said, to soothe him.

"And your excellency's favourite hound, Diane," he gasped.  "She had three puppies, not two.
I sold the other."

"Well, it is forgiven, my friend.  It is forgiven.  Be easy," I said kindly.

"Ah, I have been a villain," he groaned.  "I have lived loosely. Only last night I kissed the
butler's wench, and--"

"Be easy, be easy," I said.  "Here is the doctor.  He will save you yet."

And I made way for M. Du Laurens, who, having saluted the King, knelt down by the sick man,
and felt his pulse; while we all stood round, looking down on the two with grave faces.  It
seemed to me that the man's eyes were growing dim, and I had little hope.  The King was the
first to break the silence.  "You have hope?"  he said.  "You can save him?"

"Pardon, sire, a moment," the physician answered, rising from his knees.  "Where is the cat?"

Someone brought it, and M. Du Laurens, after looking at it, said curtly, "It has been poisoned."

La Trape uttered a groan of despair.  "At what hour did it take the milk?"  the physician asked.

"A little before ten last evening," I said, seeing that La Trape was too far gone for speech.

"Ah!  And the man?"

"An hour later."

Du Laurens shook his head, and was preparing to lay down the cat, which he had taken in his
hands, when some appearance led him to examine it again and more closely.  "Why what is this?"
he exclaimed, in a tone of surprise, as he took the body to the window.  "There is a large
swelling under its chin."

No one answered.

"Give me a pair of scissors," he continued; and then, after a minute, when they had been handed
to him and he had removed the fur, "Ha!" he said gravely, "this is not so simple as I thought.
The cat has been poisoned, but by a prick with some sharp instrument."

The King uttered an exclamation of incredulity.  "But it drank the milk," he said.  "Some milk
that--"

"Pardon, sire," Du Laurens answered positively.  "A draught of milk, however drugged, does
not produce an external swelling with a small blue puncture in the middle."

"What does?"  the King asked, with something like a sneer.

"Ah, that is the question," the physician answered.  "A ring, perhaps, with a poison-chamber
and hollow dart."

"But there is no question of that here," I said.  "Let us be clear.  Do you say that the cat
did not die of the milk?"

"I see no proof that it did," he answered.  "And many things to show that it died of poison
administered by puncture."

"But then," I answered, in no little confusion of thought, "what of La Trape?"

He turned, and with him all eyes, to the unfortunate equerry, who still lay seemingly moribund,
with his head propped on some cushions.  M. Du Laurens advanced to him and again felt his pulse,
an operation which appeared to bring a slight tinge of colour to the fading cheeks.  "How much
milk did he drink?"  the physician asked after a pause.

"More than half a pint," I answered.

"And what besides?"

"A quantity of the King's posset, and a little lemonade."

"And for supper?  What did you have?"  the leech continued, addressing himself to his patient.

"I had some wine," he answered feebly.  "And a little Frontignac with the butler; and some
honey-mead that the gipsy-wench gave me.

"The gipsy-wench?"

"The butler's girl, of whom I spoke."

M. Du Laurens rose slowly to his feet, and, to my amazement, dealt the prostrate man a hearty
kick; bidding him at the same time to rise. "Get up, fool!  Get up," he continued harshly,
yet with a ring of triumph in his voice, "all you have got is the colic, and it is no more
than you deserve.  Get up, I say, and beg his Majesty's pardon!"

"But," the King remonstrated in a tone of anger, "the man is dying!"

"He is no more dying than you are, sire," the other answered. "Or, if he is, it is of fright.
There, he can stand as well as you or I!"

And to be sure, as he spoke, La Trape scrambled to his feet, and with a mien between shame
and doubt stood staring at us, the very picture of a simpleton.  It was no wonder that his
jaw fell and his impudent face burned; for the room shook with such a roar of laughter, at
first low, and then as the King joined in it, swelling louder and louder, as few of us had
ever heard, Though I was not a little mortified by the way in which we had deceived ourselves,
I could not help joining in the laugh; particularly as the more closely we reviewed the scene
in which we had taken part, the more absurd seemed the jest.  It was long before silence could
be obtained; but at length Henry, quite exhausted by the violence of his mirth held up his
hand.  I seized the opportunity.

"Why, you rascal!" I said, addressing La Trape, who did not know which way to look, "where
are the ten crowns of which you defrauded the scullion?"

"To be sure," the King said, going off into another roar.  "And the third puppy?"

"Yes," I said, "you scoundrel; and the third puppy?"

"Ay, and the gipsy girl?"  the King continued.  "The butler's wench, what of her?  And of your
evil living?  Begone, begone, rascal!" he continued, falling into a fresh paroxysm, "or you
will kill US in earnest.  Would nothing else do for you but to die in my chamber? Begone!"

I took this as a hint to clear the room, not only of La Trape himself but of all; and presently
only I and Du Laurens remained with the King. It then appeared that there was still a mystery,
and one which it behoved us to clear up; inasmuch as Du Laurens took the cat's death very seriously,
insisting that it had died of poison administered in a most sinister fashion, and one that
could not fail to recall to our minds the Borgian popes.  It needed no more than this to direct
my suspicions to the Florentines who swarmed about the Queen, and against whom the King had
let drop so many threats.  But the indisposition which excitement had for a time kept at bay
began to return upon me; and I was presently glad to drop the subject; and retire to my own
apartments, leaving the King to dress.

Consequently, I was not with him when the strange discovery which followed was made.  In the
ordinary course of dressing, one of the servants going to the fire-place to throw away a piece
of waste linen, thought that he heard a rat stir among the boughs. He moved them, and in a
moment a small snake crawled out, hissing and darting out its tongue.  It was killed, and then
it at once occurred to the King that he had the secret of the cat's death. He came to me hot-foot
with the news, and found me with Du Laurens who was in the act of ordering me to bed.

I confess that I heard the story almost with apathy, so ill was I.  Not so the physician. 
After examining the snake, which by the King's orders had been brought for my inspection, he
pronounced that it was not of French origin.  "It has escaped from some snake-charmer," he said.

The King seemed to be incredulous.

"I assure you that I speak the truth, sire," Du Laurens persisted.

"But how then did it come in my room?"

"That is what I should like to know, sire," the physician answered severely; "and yet I think
that I can guess.  It was put there, I fancy, by the person who sent up the milk to your chamber."

"Why do you say so?"  Henry asked

"Because, sire, all snakes are inordinately fond of milk."

"Ah!" the King said slowly, with a change of countenance and a shudder which he could not repress;
"and there was milk on the floor in the morning."

"Yes, sire; on the floor, and beside the head of your bed."

But at this stage I was attacked by a fit of illness so severe that I had to break in on the
discussion, and beg the King to withdraw.  The sickness increased on me during the day, and
by noon I was prostrate, neither taking interest in anything, nor allowing others, who began
to fear for my life, to divert their attention.  After twenty-four hours I began to mend, but
still several days elapsed before I was able to devote myself to business; and then I found
that, the master-mind being absent, and the King, as always, lukewarm in the pursuit, nothing
had been done to detect and punish the criminal.

I could not rest easy, however, with so abominable a suspicion attaching to my house; and as
soon as I could bend my mind to the matter I began an inquiry.  At the first stage, however,
I came to an IMPASSE; the butler, who had been long in my service, cleared himself without
difficulty, but a few questions discovered the fact that a person who had been in his department
on the evening in question was now to seek, having indeed disappeared from that time.  This
was the gipsy-girl, whom La Trape had mentioned, and whose presence in my household seemed
to need the more elucidation the farther I pushed the inquiry.  In the end I had the butler
punished, but though my agents sought the girl through Paris, and even traced her to Meaux,
she was never discovered.

The affair, at the King's instance, was not made public; nevertheless, it gave him so strong
a distaste for the Arsenal that he did not again visit me, nor use the rooms I had prepared.
That later, when the first impression wore off, he would have done so, is probable; but, alas,
within a few months the malice of his enemies prevailed over my utmost precautions, and robbed
me of the best of masters; strangely enough, as all the world now knows, at the corner of that
very Rue de la Feronnerie which he had seen in his dream.

XII. AT

FONTAINEBLEAU.

The passion which Henry still felt for Madame de Conde, and which her flight from the country
was far from assuaging, had a great share in putting him upon the immediate execution of the
designs we had so long prepared.  Looking to find in the stir and bustle of a German campaign
that relief of mind which the Court could no longer afford him, he discovered in the unhoped-for
wealth of his treasury an additional incitement; and now waited only for the opening of spring
and the Queen's coronation to remove the last obstacles that kept him from the field.

Nevertheless, relying on my assurances that all things were ready, and persuaded that the more
easy he showed himself the less prepared would he find the enemy, he made no change in his
habits; but in March, 1610, went, as usual, to Fontainebleau, where he diverted himself with
hunting.  It was during this visit that the Court credited him with seeing--I think, on the
Friday before the Feast of the Virgin--the Great Huntsman; and even went so far as to specify
the part of the forest in which he came upon it, and the form--that of a gigantic black horseman,
surrounded by hounds--which it assumed The spectre had not been seen since the year 1598; nevertheless,
the story spread widely, those who whispered it citing in its support not only the remarkable
agitation into which the Queen fell publicly on the evening of that day, but also some strange
particulars that attended the King's return from the forest; and, being taken up and repeated,
and confirmed, as many thought, by the unhappy sequence of his death, the fable found a little
later almost universal credence, so that it may now be found even in books.

As it happened, however, I was that day at Fontainebleau, and hunted with the King; and, favoured
both by chance and the confidence with which my master never failed to honour me, am able not
only to refute this story, but to narrate the actual facts from which it took its rise.  And
though there are some, I know, who boast that they had the tale from the King's own mouth,
I undertake to prove either that they are romancers who seek to add an inch to their stature,
or dull fellows who placed their own interpretation on the hasty words he vouchsafed such chatterers.

As a fact, the King, on that day wishing to discuss with me the preparations for the Queen's
entry, bade me keep close to him, since he had more inclination for my company than the chase.
But the crowd that attended him was so large, the day being fine and warm--and comprised, besides,
so many ladies, whose badinage and gaiety he could never forego--that I found him insensibly
drawn from me.  Far from being displeased, I was glad to see him forget the moodiness which
had of late oppressed him; and beyond keeping within sight of him, gave up, for the time, all
thought of affairs, and found in the beauty of the spectacle sufficient compensation.  The
bright dresses and waving feathers of the party showed to the greatest advantage, as the long
cavalcade wound through the heather and rocks of the valley below the Apremonts; and whether
I looked to front or rear--on the huntsmen, with their great horns, or the hounds straining
in the leashes--I was equally charmed with a sight at once joyous and gallant, and one to which
the calls of duty had of late made me a stranger.

On a sudden a quarry was started, and the company, galloping off pell-mell, with a merry burst
of music, were in a moment dispersed, some taking this track, and others that, through the
rocks and DEBRIS that make that part of the forest difficult. Singling out the King, I kept
as near him as possible until the chase led us into the Apremont coverts, where, the trees
growing thickly, and the rides cut through them being intricate, I lost him for a while.  Again,
however, I caught sight of him flying down a ride bordered by dark-green box-trees, against
which his white hunting coat showed vividly; but now he was alone, and riding in a direction
which each moment carried him farther from the line of the chase, and entangled him more deeply
in the forest.

Supposing that he had made a bad cast and was in error, I dashed the spurs into my horse, and
galloped after him; then, finding that he still held his own, and that I did not overtake him,
but that, on the contrary, he was riding at the top of his speed, I called to him.  "You are
in error, sire, I think!"  I cried. "The hounds are the other way!"

He heard, for he raised his hand, and, without turning his head, made me a sign; but whether
of assent or denial, I could not tell.  And he still held on his course.  Then, for a moment,
I fancied that his horse had got the better of him, and was running away; but no sooner had
the thought occurred to me than I saw that he was spurring it, and exciting it to its utmost
speed, so that we reached the end of that ride, and rushed through another and still another,
always making, I did not fail to note, for the most retired part of the forest.

We had proceeded in this way about a mile, and the sound of the hunt had quite died away behind
us, and I was beginning to chafe, as well as marvel, at conduct so singular, when at last I
saw that he was slackening his pace.  My horse, which was on the point of failing, began, in
turn, to overhaul his, while I looked out with sharpened curiosity for the object of pursuit.
I could see nothing, however, and no one; and had just satisfied myself that this was one of
the droll freaks in which he would sometimes indulge, and that in a second or two he would
turn and laugh at my discomfiture, when, on a sudden, with a final pull at the reins, he did
turn, and showed me a face flushed with passion and chagrin.

I was so taken aback that I cried out.  "MON DIEU!  sire," I said. "What is it?  What is the
matter?"

"Matter enough!"  he cried, with an oath.  And on that, halting his horse, he looked at me
as if he would read my heart.  "VENTRE DE SAINT GRIS!"  he said, in a voice that made me tremble,
"if I were sure that there was no mistake, I would--I would never see your face again!"

I uttered an exclamation.

"Have you not deceived me?"  quoth he.

"Oh, sire, I am weary of these suspicions!"  I answered, affecting an indifference I did not
feel.  "If your Majesty does not--"

But he cut me short.  "Answer me!"  he said harshly, his mouth working in his beard and his
eyes gleaming with excitement. "Have you not deceived me?"

"No, sire!"  I said.

"Yet you have told me day by day that Madame de Conde remained in Brussels?"

"Certainly!"

"And you still say so?"

"Most certainly!"  I answered firmly, beginning to think that his passion had turned his brain.
"I had despatches to that effect this morning."

"Of what date?"

"Three days gone.  The courier travelled night and day."

"They may be true, and still she may be here to-day?"  he said, staring at me.

"Impossible, sire!"

"But, man, I have just seen her!"  he cried impatiently.

"Madame de Conde?"

"Yes, Madame de Conde, or I am a madman!"  Henry answered, speaking a little more moderately.
"I saw her gallop out of the patch of rocks at the end of the Dormoir--where the trees begin.
She did not heed the line of the hounds, but turned straight down the boxwood ride; and, after
that, led as I followed.  Did you not see her?"

"No, sire," I said, inexpressibly alarmed--I could take it for nothing but fantasy--"I saw no one."

"And I saw her as clearly as I see you," he answered.  "She wore the yellow ostrich-feather
she wore last year, and rode her favourite chestnut horse with a white stocking.  But I could
have sworn to her by her figure alone; and she waved her hand to me."

"But, sire, out of the many ladies riding to-day--"

"There is no lady wearing a yellow feather," he answered passionately. "And the horse!  And
I knew her, man!  Besides, she waved to me!  And, for the others--why should they turn from
the hunt and take to the woods?"

I could not answer this, but I looked at him in fear; for, as it was impossible that the Princess
de Conde could be here, I saw no alternative but to think him smitten with madness.  The extravagance
of the passion which he had entertained for her, and the wrath into which the news of her flight
with her young husband had thrown him, to say nothing of the depression under which he had
since suffered, rendered the idea not so unlikely as it now seems.  At any rate, I was driven
for a moment to entertain it; and gazed at him in silence, a prey to the most dreadful apprehensions.

We stood in a narrow ride, bordered by evergreens, with which that part of the forest is planted;
and but for the songs of the birds the stillness would have been absolute.  On a sudden the
King removed his eyes from me, and, walking his horse a pace or two along the ride, uttered
a cry of joy.

He pointed to the ground.  "We are right!"  he said.  "There are her tracks!  Come!  We will
overtake her yet!"

I looked, and saw the fresh prints of a horse's shoes, and felt a great weight roll off my
mind, for at least he had seen someone. I no longer hesitated to fall in with his humour, but,
riding after him, kept at his elbow until he reached the end of the ride.  Here, a vista opening
right and left, and the ground being hard and free from tracks, we stood at a loss; until the
King, whose eyesight was always of the keenest, uttered an exclamation, and started from me
at a gallop.

I followed more slowly, and saw him dismount and pick up a glove, which, even at that distance,
he had discerned lying in the middle of one of the paths.  He cried, with a flushed face, that
it was Madame de Conde's; and added:  "It has her perfume--her perfume, which no one else uses!"

I confess that this so staggered me that I knew not what to think; but, between sorrow at seeing
my master so infatuated and bewilderment at a riddle that grew each moment more perplexing,
I sat gaping at Henry like a man without counsel.  However, at the moment, he needed none,
but, getting to his saddle as quickly as he could, he began again to follow the tracks of the
horse's feet, which here were visible, the path running through a beech wood.  The branches
were still bare, and the shining trunks stood up like pillars, the ground about them being
soft.  We followed the prints through this wood for a mile and a half or more, and then, with
a cry, the King darted from me, and, in an instant, was racing through the wood at break-neck
speed.

I had a glimpse of a woman flying far ahead of us; and now hidden from us by the trunks and
now disclosed; and could even see enough to determine that she wore a yellow feather drooping
from her hat, and was in figure not unlike the Princess.  But that was all; for, once started,
the inequalities of the ground drew my eyes from the flying form, and, losing it, I could not
again recover it.  On the contrary, it was all I could do to keep up with the King; and of
the speed at which the woman was riding, could best judge by the fact that in less than five
minutes he, too, pulled-up with a gesture of despair, and waited for me to come abreast of him.

"You saw her?"  he said, his face grim, and with something of suspicion lurking in it.

"Yes, sire," I answered, "I saw a woman, and a woman with a yellow feather; but whether it
was the Princess--"

"It was!"  he said.  "If not, why should she flee from us?"

To that, again, I had not a word to say, and for a moment we rode in silence.  Observing, however,
that this last turn had brought us far on the way home, I called the King's attention to this;
but he had sunk into a fit of gloomy abstraction, and rode along with his eyes on the ground.
We proceeded thus until the slender path we followed brought up into the great road that leads
through the forest to the kennels and the new canal.

Here I asked him if he would not return to the chase, as the day was still young.

"Mon Dieu, no!"  he answered passionately.  "I have other work to do. Hark ye, M. le Duc, do
you still think that she is in Brussels?"

"I swear that she was there three days ago, sire!"

"And you are not deceiving me?  If it be so, God forgive you, for I shall not!"

"It is no trick of mine, sire," I answered firmly.

"Trick?"  he cried, with a flash of his eyes.  "A trick, you say? No, VENTRE DE SAINT GRIS!
there is no man in France dare trick me so!"

I did not contradict him, the rather as we were now close to the kennels, and I was anxious
to allay his excitement; that it might not be detected by the keen eyes that lay in wait for
us, and so add to the gossip to which his early return must give rise.  I hoped that at that
hour he might enter unperceived, by way of the kennels and the little staircase; but in this
I was disappointed, the beauty of the day having tempted a number of ladies, and others who
had not hunted, to the terrace by the canal; whence, walking up and down, their fans and petticoats
fluttering in the sunshine, and their laughter and chatter filling the air, they were able
to watch our approach at their leisure.

Unfortunately, Henry had no longer the patience and self-control needful for such a RENCONTRE.
He dismounted with a dark and peevish air, and, heedless of the staring, bowing throng, strode
up the steps. Two or three, who stood high in favour, put themselves forward to catch a smile
or a word, but he vouchsafed neither.  He walked through them with a sour air, and entered
the chateau with a precipitation that left all tongues wagging.

To add to the misfortune, something--I forget what--detained me a moment, and that cost us
dear.  Before I could cross the terrace, Concini, the Italian, came up, and, saluting me, said
that the Queen desired to speak to me.

"The Queen?"  I said, doubtfully, foreseeing trouble.

"She is waiting at the gate of the farther court," he answered politely, his keen black eyes
reverting, with eager curiosity, to the door by which the King had disappeared.

I could not refuse, and went to her.  "The King has returned early, M. le Duc?"  she said.

"Yes, madame," I answered.  "He had a fancy to discuss affairs to-day, and we lost the hounds."

"Together?"

"I had the honour, Madame."

"You do not seem to have agreed very well?"  she said, smiling.

"Madame," I answered bluntly, "his Majesty has no more faithful servant; but we do not always
agree."

She raised her hand, and, with a slight gesture, bade her ladies stand back, while her face
lost its expression of good-temper, and grew sharp and dark.  "Was it about the Conde?"  she
said, in a low, grating voice.  "No, madame," I answered; "it was about certain provisions.
The King's ear had been grossly abused, and his Majesty led to believe--"

"Faugh!"  she cried, with a wave of contempt, "that is an old story!  I am sick of it.  Is
she still at Brussels?"

"Still, madame."

"Then see that she stops there!"  her Majesty retorted, with a meaning look.

And with that she dismissed me, and went into the chateau.  I proposed to rejoin the King;
but, to my chagrin, I found, when I reached the closet, that he had already sent for Varennes,
and was shut up with him.  I went back to my rooms therefore, and, after changing my hunting
suit and transacting some necessary business, sat down to dinner with Nicholas, the King's
secretary, a man fond of the table, whom I often entertained.  He kept me in talk until the
afternoon was well advanced, and we were still at table when Maignan appeared and told me that
the King had sent for me.

"I will go," I said, rising.

"He is with the Queen, your Excellency," he continued.

This somewhat surprised me, but I thought no evil; and, finding one of the Queen's Italian
pages at the door waiting to conduct me, I followed him across the court that lay between my
lodgings and her apartments. Two or three of the King's gentlemen were in the anteroom when
I arrived, and Varennes, who was standing by one of the fire-places toying with a hound, made
me a face of dismay; he could not speak, owing to the company.

Still this, in a degree, prepared me for the scene in the chamber, where I found the Queen
storming up and down the room, while the King, still in his hunting dress, sat on a low chair
by the fire, apparently drying his boots.  Mademoiselle Galigai, the Queen's waiting-woman,
stood in the background; but more than this I had not time to observe, for, before I had reached
the middle of the floor, the Queen turned on me, and began to abuse me with a vehemence which
fairly shocked me.

"And you!"  she cried, "who speak so slow, and look so solemn, and all the time do his dirty
work, like the meanest cook he has ennobled!  It is well you are here!  ENFIN, you are found
out--you and your provisions!  Your provisions, of which you talked in the wood!"

"MON DIEU!"  the King groaned; "give me patience!"

"He has given me patience these ten years, sire!"  she retorted passionately.  "Patience to
see myself flouted by your favourites, insulted and displaced, and set aside!  But this is
too much!  It was enough that you made yourself the laughing-stock of France once with this
madame!  I will not have it again--no:  though twenty of your counsellors frown at me!"

"Your Majesty seems displeased," I said.  "But as I am quite in the dark--"

"Liar!"  she cried, giving way to her fury.  "When you were with her this morning!  When you
saw her!  When you stooped to--"

"Madame!" the King said sternly, "if you forget yourself, be good enough to remember that you
are speaking to French gentlemen, not to traders of Florence!"

She sneered.  "You think to wound me by that!"  she cried, breathing quickly.  "But I have
my grandfather's blood in me, sire; and no King of France--"

"One King of France will presently make your uncle of that blood sing small!"  the King answered
viciously.  "So much for that; and for the rest, sweetheart, softly, softly!"

"Oh!"  she cried, "I will go:  I will not stay to be outraged by that woman's presence!"

I had now an inkling what was the matter; and discerning that the quarrel was a more serious
matter than their every-day bickerings, and threatened to go to lengths that might end in disaster,
I ignored the insult her Majesty had flung at me, and entreated her to be calm.  "If I understand
aright, madame," I said, "you have some grievance against his Majesty.  Of that I know nothing.
But I also understand that you allege something against me; and it is to speak to that, I presume,
that I am summoned.  If you will deign to put the matter into words--"

"Words!"  she cried.  "You have words enough!  But get out of this, Master Grave-Airs, if you
can!  Did you, or did you not, tell me this morning that the Princess of Conde was in Brussels?"

"I did, madame."

"Although half an hour before you had seen her, you had talked with her, you had been with
her in the forest?"

"But I had not, madame!"

"What?"  she cried, staring at me, surprised doubtless that I manifested no confusion.  "Do
you say that you did not see her?"

"I did not."

"Nor the King?"

"The King, Madame, cannot have seen her this morning," I said, "because he is here and she
is in Brussels."

"You persist in that?"

"Certainly!"  I said.  "Besides, madame," I continued, "I have no doubt that the King has given
you his word--"

"His word is good for everyone but his wife!"  she answered bitterly. "And for yours, M. le
Duc, I will show you what it is worth. Mademoiselle, call--"

"Nay, madame!"  I said, interrupting her with spirit, "if you are going to call your household
to contradict me--"

"But I am not!"  she cried in a voice of triumph that, for the moment, disconcerted me.  "Mademoiselle,
send to M. de Bassompierre's lodgings, and bid him come to me!"

The King whistled softly, while I, who knew Bassompierre to be devoted to him, and to be, in
spite of the levity to which his endless gallantries bore witness, a man of sense and judgment,
prepared myself for a serious struggle; judging that we were in the meshes of an intrigue,
wherein it was impossible to say whether the Queen figured as actor or dupe.  The passion she
evinced as she walked to and fro with clenched hands, or turned now and again to dart a fiery
glance at the Cordovan curtain that hid the door, was so natural to her character that I found
myself leaning to the latter supposition.  Still, in grave doubt what part Bassompierre was
to play, I looked for his coming as anxiously as anyone.  And probably the King shared this
feeling; but he affected indifference, and continued to sit over the fire with an air of mingled
scorn and peevishness.

At length Bassompierre entered, and, seeing the King, advanced with an open brow that persuaded
me, at least, of his innocence. Attacked on the instant, however, by the Queen, and taken by
surprise, as it were, between two fires--though the King kept silence, and merely shrugged
his shoulders--his countenance fell. He was at that time one of the handsomest gallants about
the Court, thirty years old, and the darling of women; but at this his APLOMB failed him, and
with it my heart sank also.

"Answer, sir!  answer!"  the Queen cried.  "And without subterfuge! Who was it, sir, whom you
saw come from the forest this morning?"

"Madame?"

"In one word!"

"If your Majesty will--"

"I will permit you to answer," the Queen exclaimed.

"I saw his Majesty return," he faltered--"and M. de Sully."

"Before them!  before them!"

"I may have been mistaken."

"Pooh, man!"  the Queen cried with biting contempt.  "You have told it to half-a-dozen.  Discretion
comes a little late."

"Well, if you will, madame," he said, striving to assert himself, but cutting a poor figure,
"I fancied that I saw Madame de Conde--"

"Come out of the wood ten minutes before the King?"

"It may have been twenty," he muttered.

But the Queen cared no more for him.  She turned, looking superb in her wrath, to the King.
"Now, sir!"  she said.  "Am I to bear this?"

"Sweet!"  the King said, governing his temper in a way that surprised me, "hear reason, and
you shall have it in a word.  How near was Bassompierre to the lady he saw?"

"I was not within fifty paces of her!"  the favourite cried eagerly.

"But others saw her!"  the Queen rejoined sharply.  "Madame Paleotti, who was with the gentleman,
saw her also, and knew her."

"At a distance of fifty paces?"  the King said drily.  "I don't attach much weight to that."
And then, rising, with a slight yawn.  "Madame," he continued, with the air of command which
he knew so well how to assume, "for the present, I am tired!  If Madame de Conde is here, it
will not be difficult to get further evidence of her presence.  If she is at Brussels, that
fact, too, you can ascertain.  Do the one or the other, as you please; but, for to-day, I beg
that you will excuse me."

"And that," the Queen cried shrilly--"that is to be--"

"All, madame!"  the King said sternly.  "Moreover, let me have no prating outside this room.
Grand-Master, I will trouble you."

And with these words, uttered in a voice and with an air that silenced even the angry woman
before us, he signed to me to follow him, and went from the room; the first glance of his eye
stilling the crowded ante-chamber, as if the shadow of death passed with him.  I followed him
to his closet; but, until he reached it, had no inkling of what was in his thoughts.  Then
he turned to me.

"Where is she?"  he said sharply.

I stared at him a moment.  "Pardon, sire?" I said.  "Do you think that it was Madame de Conde?"

"Why not?"

"She is in Brussels."

"I tell you I saw her this morning!"  he answered.  "Go, learn all you can!  Find her!  Find
her!  If she has returned, I will--God knows what I will do!"  he cried, in a voice shamefully
broken. "Go; and send Varennes to me.  I shall sup alone:  let no one wait."

I would have remonstrated with him, but he was in no mood to bear it; and, sad at heart, I
withdrew, feeling the perplexity, which the situation caused me, a less heavy burden than the
pain with which I viewed the change that had of late come over my master; converting him from
the gayest and most DEBONAIRE of men into this morose and solitary dreamer.  Here, had I felt
any temptation to moralise on the tyranny of passion, was the occasion; but, as the farther
I left the closet behind me the more instant became the crisis, the present soon reasserted
its power.  Reflecting that Henry, in this state of uncertainty, was capable of the wildest
acts, and that not less was to be feared from his imprudence than from the Queen's resentment,
I cudgelled my brains to explain the RENCONTRE of the morning; but as the courier, whom I questioned,
confirmed the report of my agents, and asseverated most confidently that he had left Madame
in Brussels, I was flung back on the alternative of an accidental resemblance.  This, however,
which stood for a time as the most probable solution, scarcely accounted for the woman's peculiar
conduct, and quite fell to the ground when La Trape, making cautious inquiries, ascertained
that no lady hunting that day had worn a yellow feather.  Again, therefore, I found myself
at a loss; and the dejection of the King and the Queen's ill-temper giving rise to the wildest
surmises, and threatening each hour to supply the gossips of the Court with a startling scandal,
the issue of which no one could foresee, I went so far as to take into my confidence MM. Epernon
and Montbazon; but with no result.

Such being my state of mind, and such the suspense I suffered during two days, it may be imagined
that M. Bassompierre was not more happy. Despairing of the King's favour unless he could clear
up the matter, and by the event justify his indiscretion, he became for those two days the
wonder, and almost the terror, of the Court.  Ignorant of what he wanted, the courtiers found
only insolence in his mysterious questions, and something prodigious in an activity which carried
him in one day to Paris and back, and on the following to every place in the vicinity where
news of the fleeting beauty might by any possibility be gained; so that he far outstripped
my agents, who were on the same quest.  But though I had no mean opinion of his abilities,
I hoped little from these exertions, and was proportionately pleased when, on the third day,
he came to me with a radiant face and invited me to attend the Queen that evening.

"The King will be there," he said, "and I shall surprise you. But I will not tell you more.
Come!  and I promise to satisfy you."

And that was all he would say; so that, finding my questions useless, and the man almost frantic
with joy, I had to be content with it; and at the Queen's hour that evening presented myself
in her gallery, which proved to be unusually full.

Making my way towards her in some doubt of my reception, I found my worst fears confirmed.
She greeted me with a sneering face, and was preparing, I was sure, to put some slight upon
me--a matter wherein she could always count on the applause of her Italian servants--when the
entrance of the King took her by surprise.  He advanced up the gallery with a listless air,
and, after saluting her, stood by one of the fireplaces talking to Epernon and La Force.  The
crowd was pretty dense by this time, and the hum of talk filled the room when, on a sudden,
a voice, which I recognised as Bassompierre's, was lifted above it.

"Very well!" he cried gaily, "then I appeal to her Majesty.  She shall decide, mademoiselle!
No, no; I am not satisfied with your claim!"

The King looked that way with a frown, but the Queen took the outburst in good part.  "What
is it, M. de Bassompierre?"  she said.  "What am I to decide?"

"To-day, in the forest, I found a ring, madame," he answered, coming forward.  "I told Mademoiselle
de la Force of my discovery, and she now claims the ring."

"I once had a ring like it," cried mademoiselle, blushing and laughing.

"A sapphire ring?"  Bassompierre answered, holding his hand aloft.

"Yes."

"With three stones?"

"Yes,"

"Precisely, mademoiselle!"  he answered, bowing.  "But the stones in this ring are not sapphires,
nor are there three of them."

There was a great laugh at this, and the Queen said, very wittily, that as neither of the claimants
could prove a right to the ring it must revert to the judge.

"In one moment your Majesty shall at least see it," he answered. "But, first, has anyone lost
a ring?  Oyez!  Oyez!  Oyez!  Lost, in the forest, within the last three days, a ring!"

Two or three, falling in with his humour, set up absurd claims to it; but none could describe
the ring, and in the end he handed it to the Queen.  As he did so his eyes met mine and challenged
my attention.  I was prepared, therefore, for the cry of surprise which broke from the Queen.

"Why, this is Caterina's!"  she cried.  "Where is the child?"

Someone pushed forward Mademoiselle Paleotti, sister-in-law to Madame Paleotti, the Queen's
first chamberwoman.  She was barely out of her teens, and, ordinarily, was a pretty girl; but
the moment I saw her dead-white face, framed in a circle of fluttering fans and pitiless, sparkling
eyes, I discerned tragedy in the farce; and that M. de Bassompierre was acting in a drama to
which only he and one other held the key.  The contrast between the girl's blanched face and
the beauty and glitter in the midst of which she stood struck others, so that, before another
word was said, I caught the gasp of surprise that passed through the room; nor was I the only
one who drew nearer.

"Why, girl," the Queen said, "this is the ring I gave you on my birthday!  When did you lose
it?  And why have you made a secret of it?"

Mademoiselle stood speechless; but madame her sister-in-law answered for her.  "Doubtless she
was afraid that your Majesty would think her careless," she answered.

"I did not ask you!"  the Queen rejoined.

She spoke harshly and suspiciously, looking from the ring to the trembling girl.  The silence
was such that the chatter of the pages in the anteroom could be heard.  Still Mademoiselle
stood dumb and confounded.

"Well, what is the mystery?"  the Queen said, looking round with a little wonder.  "What is
the matter?  It IS the ring.  Why do you not own it?"

"Perhaps mademoiselle is wondering where are the other things she left with it!"  Bassompierre
said in a silky tone.  "The things she left at Parlot the verderer's, when she dropped the
ring. But she may free her mind; I have them here."

"What do you mean?"  the Queen said.  "What things, monsieur? What has the girl been doing?"

"Only what many have done before her," Bassompierre answered, bowing to his unfortunate victim,
who seemed to be paralysed by terror: "masquerading in other people's clothes.  I propose,
madame, that, for punishment, you order her to dress in them, that we may see what her taste is."

"I do not understand?"  the Queen said.

"Your Majesty will, if Mademoiselle Paleotti will consent to humour us."

At that the girl uttered a cry, and looked round the circle as if for a way of escape; but
a Court is a cruel place, in which the ugly or helpless find scant pity.  A dozen voices begged
the Queen to insist; and, amid laughter and loud jests, Bassompierre hastened to the door,
and returned with an armful of women's gear, surmounted by a wig and a feathered hat.

"If the Queen will command mademoiselle to retire and put these on," he said, "I will undertake
to show her something that will please her."

"Go!"  said the Queen.

But the girl had flung herself on her knees before her, and, clinging to her skirts, burst,
into a flood of tears and prayers; while her sister-in-law stepped forward as if to second
her, and cried out, in great excitement, that her Majesty would not be so cruel as to--

"Hoity, toity!"  said the Queen, cutting her short, very grimly. "What is all this?  I tell
the girl to put on a masquerade--which it seems that she has been keeping at some cottage--and
you talk as if I were cutting off her head!  It seems to me that she escapes very lightly!
Go!  go!  and see, you, that you are arrayed in five minutes, or I will deal with you!"

"Perhaps Mademoiselle de la Force will go with her, and see that nothing is omitted," Bassompierre
said with malice.

The laughter and applause with which this proposal was received took me by surprise; but later
I learned that the two young women were rivals. "Yes, yes," the Queen said.  "Go, mademoiselle,
and see that she does not keep us waiting."

Knowing what I did, I had by this time a fair idea of the discovery which Bassompierre had
made; but the mass of courtiers and ladies round me, who had not this advantage, knew not what
to expect--nor, especially, what part M. Bassompierre had in the business--but made most diverting
suggestions, the majority favouring the opinion that Mademoiselle Paleotti had repulsed him,
and that this was his way of avenging himself.  A few of the ladies even taxed him with this,
and tried, by random reproaches, to put him at least on his defence; but, merrily refusing
to be inveigled, he made to all the same answer that when Mademoiselle Paleotti returned they
would see.  This served only to whet a curiosity already keen, insomuch that the door was watched
by as many eyes as if a miracle had been promised; and even MM. Epernon and Vendome, leaving
the King's side, pressed into the crowd that they might see the better.  I took the opportunity
of going to him, and, meeting his eyes as I did so, read in them a look of pain and distress.
As I advanced he drew back a pace, and signed to me to stand before him.

I had scarcely done so when the door opened and Mademoiselle Paleotti, pale, and supported
on one side by her rival, appeared at it; but so wondrously transformed by a wig, hat, and
redingote that I scarcely knew her.  At first, as she stood, looking with shamed eyes at the
staring crowd, the impression made was simply one of bewilderment, so complete was the disguise.
But Bassompierre did not long suffer her to stand so.  Advancing to her side, his hat under
his arm, he offered his hand.

"Mademoiselle," he said, "will you oblige me by walking as far as the end of the gallery with me?"

She complied involuntarily, being almost unable to stand alone. But the two had not proceeded
half-way down the gallery before a low murmur began to be heard, that, growing quickly louder,
culminated in an astonished cry of "Madame de Conde!  Madame de Conde!"

M. Bassompierre dropped her hand with a low bow, and turned to the Queen.  "Madame," he said,
"this, I find, is the lady whom I saw on the Terrace when Madame Paleotti was so good as to
invite me to walk on the Bois-le-Roi road.  For the rest, your Majesty may draw your conclusions."

It was easy to see that the Queen had already drawn them; but, for the moment, the unfortunate
girl was saved from her wrath. With a low cry, Mademoiselle Paleotti did that which she would
have done a little before, had she been wise, and swooned on the floor.

I turned to look at the King, and found him gone.  He had withdrawn unseen in the first confusion
of the surprise; nor did I dare at once to interrupt him, or intrude on the strange mixture
of regret and relief, wrath and longing, that probably possessed him in the silence of his
closet.  It was enough for me that the Italians' plot had failed, and that the danger of a
rupture between the King and Queen, which these miscreants desired, and I had felt to be so
great and imminent, was, for this time, overpast.

The Paleottis were punished, being sent home in disgrace, and a penury, which, doubtless, they
felt more keenly.  But, alas, the King could not banish with them all who hated him and France;
nor could I, with every precaution, and by the unsparing use of all the faculties that, during
a score of years, had been at the service of my master, preserve him for his country and the
world. Before two months had run he perished by a mean hand, leaving the world the poorer by
the greatest and most illustrious sovereign that ever ruled a nation.  And men who loved neither
France nor him entered into his labours, whose end also I have seen.