Dr. McGuffey left Cincinnati in 1839, and when the publisher, Mr. Winthrop B. Smith, found
it necessary to add to the four McGuffey's Readers another more advanced book, he employed
for its preparation, Mr. Alexander H. McGuffey, a younger brother of Dr. McGuffey. Mr. Alexander
H. McGuffey had, in 1837, prepared for Messrs. Truman & Smith the manuscript of McGuffey's
Eclectic Spelling Book, and although the nature of this task was very different from the preparation
of a reader for the highest grades in the elementary schools, the result showed that the publishers
judged wisely in selecting a man competent to prepare a selection from English literature.

Mr. Alexander Hamilton McGuffey was born August 13, 1816, in Trumbull County, Ohio. He was
sixteen years younger than his brother, William, and when only ten years of age was placed
under charge of his brother at Oxford, Ohio. There he studied Hebrew before he had any knowledge
of the grammar of his mother tongue. He was a brilliant student, and he graduated from Miami
University at the age of sixteen. Soon after graduation he was appointed Professor of Belles
Lettres at Woodward College. In this field of labor his knowledge of English literature was
broadened and he acquired a love for the classic English writers that lasted through life.
But Mr. McGuffey determined to become a lawyer and, while still teaching English literature
in Woodward College, he read law. He was admitted to the bar as soon as he reached his twenty-first
year, and became a noted and wise counsellor. His labor for his clients was in keeping them
out of the courts by clearly expressed contracts and prudent action. He was seldom engaged
in jury trials; but was expert in cases involving contracts and wills. In such suits his knowledge
of the principles of law and his power of close reasoning were valuable. He was often placed
in positions of trust, and was for more than fifty years the watchful guardian of the interests
of the Cincinnati College.

[The Rhetorical Guide]

He prepared the manuscript of the Rhetorical Guide after the close of his labor as a teacher.
The work probably occupied his leisure time in a law office before he acquired remunerative
practice in his profession.

[McGuffey's Sixth Reader]

The contract between Mr. A.H. McGuffey and W.B. Smith, dated September 30, 1841, provided for
the preparation within eighteen months, of the manuscript of a book to be called McGuffey's
Rhetorical Reader, or by any other appropriate name which Mr. Smith might select. It was to
contain not less than three hundred and twenty-four duodecimo pages nor more than four hundred
and eighty. Mr. Smith paid five hundred dollars for it, in three notes payable in three, twelve,
and eighteen months after the delivery of the manuscript. The book was issued in 1844 as McGuffey's
Rhetorical Guide. Its material, revised by its author, later became, in modified form, the
Fifth Reader in the five-book series, and again much of the same material was used in the Sixth
Reader published first in 1855.

Mr. A.H. McGuffey died at his home on Mt. Auburn, Cincinnati, on June 3, 1896. He was twice
married. His first wife, married in 1839, was Miss Elizabeth M. Drake, daughter of the eminent
Dr. Daniel Drake. After her death he married Miss Caroline V. Rich of Boston. He had a large
family. A son, Charles D. McGuffey. Esq., lives at Chattanooga, Tenn.

Mr. A.H. McGuffey was a noteworthy figure in any assemblage of men. He was tall, slender and
erect. His manner was urbane and reserved. He served on many charitable and educational boards
and was attentive to his trusts. He was an active member of the Episcopalian Church, being
many years a warden in his parish, and frequently a delegate to the Diocesan Convention, where
he was a recognized authority on Ecclesiastical Law.

In a life of nearly eighty years in which he was active in many educational and beneficent
enterprises his early work in the preparation of the Rhetorical Guide probably exercised the
widest, the best, and the most enduring influence. Many of the newspapers in all parts of the
country published notices of his death, recognizing in kindly terms the service that had been
rendered the writers by the schoolbook of which he was the author.

THE PUBLISHERS AND EDITORS.

Since the McGuffey Readers became at an early day the absolute property of their publishers,
they became responsible for all subsequent revisions and corrections of the books.

[Truman & Smith]

The firm of Truman & Smith was organized about 1834 by William B. Truman and Winthrop B. Smith.
Both had had some experience in the business of selling books. It is highly probable that this
firm became for a short time the Western agent for some schoolbooks made in the East. But Mr.
Smith soon perceived a distinct demand for a series adapted to the Western market and supplied
near at hand. He had the courage to follow his convictions.

Mr. Winthrop B. Smith was born in Stamford, Conn., September 28, 1808, the son of Anthony and
Rebecca (Clarke) Smith. He was, in his youth, an employee in a book-house in New Haven. At
the age of eighteen he went to Cincinnati, declaring that he would not return to his home until
he was independent. He labored there fourteen years before he returned, not rich, but established
in an independent career. He often declared that until 1840, he was "insolvent, but no one
knew it."

Before entering business, Mr. Smith received a sound common school education. This, grounded
on a nature well endowed with common sense, great energy, and strong determination, qualified
him for success in business. He became a man of great originality, clear-headed and far-sighted.
Toward his employees he was just, but exacting. He was a good judge of the character and qualities
of other men, and was thus able to bring to his aid competent assistants who were loyal and
effective.

Mr. Smith married in Cincinnati on November 4th, 1834, Mary Sargent. He died in Philadelphia,
December 5th, 1885, in his 78th year. Of his family, one son is a banker in Philadelphia.

[Their First Publications]

The firm of Truman & Smith published several miscellaneous books, mostly reprints of standard
works likely to have a steady sale. Their first venture in a copyrighted book was "The Child's
Bible with Plates; by a lady of Cincinnati," which was entered on June 2, 1834. On June 21st
of the same year the firm entered the titles of three books: "Mason's Sacred Harp," a collection
of church music by Lowell Mason of Boston, and Timothy B. Mason of Cincinnati; "Introduction
to Ray's Eclectic Arithmetic," by Dr. Joseph Ray; and "English Grammar on the Productive System,"
by Roswell C. Smith. Of these four books the arithmetic was issued on July 4, 1834. It was
the firm's first schoolbook. In revised and enlarged form it later became the first book in
the successful series of "Ray's Arithmetics."

But even in those early days, books would not sell themselves unless their qualities were made
known to the public. Agents had to be employed--and at first Mr. Smith was his own best agent.
There were expenses for travel and for sample books, for advertising, as well as for printing
and binding.

The Truman and Smith team did not always pull together. Mr. Truman was not versed in the schoolbook
business. Mr. Smith was.

[The Dissolution]

It is said that Mr. Smith went early one morning to their humble shop on the second floor of
No. 150 Main street, and made two piles of sample books. In one he put all the miscellaneous
publications of the firm, big and little--the Child's Bible and Sacred Harp among them--and
on top of the pile placed all the cash the firm possessed; in the other, were half a dozen
small text books, including the four McGuffey Readers. When Mr. Truman arrived, Mr. Smith expressed
the desire to dissolve the partnership, showed the two piles and offered Mr. Truman his choice.
He pounced on the cash and the larger pile and left the insignificant schoolbooks for Mr. Smith,
who thereupon became the sole owner of McGuffey's Readers.

This separation of the partnership took place in 1841 and although there is no documentary
evidence of the exact method in which it was brought about, the division of assets was in accord
with the spirit of the incident as handed down by tradition.

[A Lesson in Copyright Law]

Mr. Truman's apparent disgust with the schoolbook business may have come in part from a lawsuit
in which his firm was made a defendant. Sooner or later, publishers are quite likely to obtain
some elementary instructions as to the meaning and intent of the copyright law through action
taken in court. Messrs. Truman & Smith took a lesson in 1838.

On October 1st of that year Benjamin F. Copeland and Samuel Worcester brought suit in the court
of the United States against Truman & Smith and William H. McGuffey for infringement of copyright,
alleging that material had been copied from Worcester's Second, Third, and Fourth Readers and
that even the plan of the two latter readers had been pirated.

A temporary injunction was issued December 25, 1838; but before that date the McGuffey Readers
had been carefully compared with the Worcester Readers and every selection was removed that
seemed in the slightest degree an invasion of the previous copyright of the Worcester Readers.
As these McGuffey books were still not stereotyped, it cost no more to set up new matter than
to reset the old. On the title page of each book appeared the words, "Revised and Improved
Edition," and two pages in explanation and defense were inserted. In these the publishers stated
that certain compilers of schoolbooks, in New England, felt themselves aggrieved that the McGuffey
books contained a portion of matter similar to their own which was considered common property,
and had instituted legal proceedings against them with a view to the immediate suppression
of the McGuffey books and in the meantime had provided supplies of the Worcester books to meet
the demand of the West.

[Avoidance of Issue]

No objection was raised to meeting these compilers on their own grounds; but for both parties
there was another tribunal than the law. "The public never choose schoolbooks to please compilers."
They stated that to place themselves entirely in the right and remove every cause for cavil
or complaint they had expunged everything claimed as original, and substituted other matter,
which, both for its fitness and variety would add to the value of the Eclectic Readers. Throughout
this preface, after stating the facts regarding the suit, there was a strong claim for the
support of Western enterprise.

Although in this appeal the publishers stated that the correspondences between the two series
were "few and immaterial," a careful comparison of the early edition of the Second Reader with
the "Revised and Improved Edition" shows that Mr. Smith took out seventeen selections and inserted
in their places new matter. To an unprejudiced examiner it appears that the new matter was
better than the old. The old marked copy of Worcester's Second Reader, preserved for all these
years, shows ten pieces that were used in both books. It thus appears that the publisher took
this opportunity to improve the books as well as to make them unassailable under the copyright
law. In three months between the bringing of the suit and the granting of an injunction, Mr.
Smith had made his improved edition safe and rendered the injunction practically void.

[The Suit Settled]

The court proceeded in the usual manner and appointed a master to examine the books and make
report to ascertain what damage had been inflicted on the owners of the Worcester Readers.

When the master, in the leisurely execution of his duty, made his report nearly two years later,
the court found that the defendants had removed from their books the pirated parts and that
the suit had been settled by paying the plaintiffs two thousand dollars. There was no further
contest about the plan of the two books.

The Worcester Readers had a short and inconspicuous life. When this suit was brought, their
publishers were Richardson, Lord and Holbrook of Boston. In 1836 Charles J. Hendee published
them, and in 1854 they appeared with the name of Jenks, Hickling & Swan of Boston. These several
publishers were probably gobbled up by some imaginary Book Trust sixty years ago.

Dr. McGuffey undoubtedly inserted these selections innocent of any wrong intent and supposed
them to be in common use.

[Early Popular Schoolbooks]

As early as 1848 the success of the Eclectic Readers was sufficient to excite imitation and
in the First Reader of that year Mr. Smith printed four preliminary pages warning his patrons
not to be deceived by "Newman's Southern Eclectic Readers."

In the first century after the settlement of this country the New England Primer had a history
which in some respects resembles that of the McGuffey Readers. In that case, the settlers were
widely removed from the source of supply which had in past years served their needs. The Primer
was strongly religious and fully in accord with the faith of the people. It served as a first
book in reading and was followed by the Bible. This Primer was not protected by copyright and
any enterprising bookseller or printer in a remote town could manufacture an edition to supply
the local demand. The excessive cost of transportation was thus avoided.

[Changed Conditions]

Somewhat similar causes contributed to the widespread use and long-continued demands for Webster's
Spelling Book, which was copyrighted. This book had the support of the authority of Webster's
Dictionary--an original American work; and it soon became a staple article of merchandise which
was kept in stock in every country store. It supplanted the New England Primer and became the
first book in the hands of every pupil. Less marked in its religious instruction, the speller
spread through the South and into regions where the people were not trained in the Puritan
doctrines. The wonderful sales of Webster's Spelling Book remained for many years after the
War; but have now dropped to insignificance. It is not probable that other books will under
present conditions repeat the history of these books. There is now no wide region of fertile
country rapidly filling with settlers and separated from their former sources of supply by
great distance and by mountain ranges unprovided with passable roads. Even the more newly settled
regions of the country are reached by railroads and the parts early settled are covered by
a network of railroads, of telegraph and telephone wires which bring the consumer and the producer
near together.

In the manufacture of books as with most other articles, machinery has taken the place of hand
work. When W.B. Smith carried on his business in the second story over a small shop on Main
street, Cincinnati, nearly every process in the manufacture of a book was mere hand labor.
The tools employed were of the simplest character. Now a book-factory is filled with heavy
machines of the most complicated kind, which in many cases feed themselves from stocks of material
placed upon them. New machines are constantly being invented to cheapen and perfect the manufacture.
Thus a very large investment of capital is now required to set up and maintain a plant which
can produce books economically and with perfect finish in every part. Books are seldom manufactured
in places remote from the large cities and very few of the publishers of schoolbooks make the
books which they sell. They contract for them with printers and binders.

[Stereotyped Editions]

The first four editions of McGuffey's Readers were printed from the actual type, as all books
were once printed; but before 1840 the readers were produced from stereotyped plates. The use
of such plates enabled the publisher to secure greater accuracy in the work and also enabled
him to present books that in successive editions should be exactly the same in substance as
those already in use. Since that date electrotype plates have displaced stereotypes, as they
afford a sharper, clearer impression and endure more wear.

In a First Reader printed in the fall of 1841 there are two pages of advertising matter in
which Truman & Smith claimed to have sold 700,000 of the Eclectic Series. This book is bound
with board sides and a muslin back and a careful defense of this binding is made, claiming
that the muslin is "much more durable than the thin tender leather usually put upon books of
this class." This statement was unquestionably true. The leather referred to was of sheepskin
and of very little strength, but it took very many years to convince the public of the untruth
of the saying, "There is nothing like leather."

[Dr. Pinneo, Editor]

It is said that Mr. Smith, in the early days of his career as a publisher, himself made the
changes and corrections which experience showed were needed; but, about 1843, he employed Dr.
Timothy Stone Pinneo to act under his direction in literary matters.

[Dr. Pinneo's Work]

Dr. Pinneo was the eldest son of the Rev. Bezaleel Pinneo, an early graduate of Dartmouth College,
who was for more than half a century pastor of the First Congregational Church in Milford,
Conn. Dr. Pinneo was born at Milford in February, 1804. His mother was a woman of culture,
Mary, only daughter of the Rev. Timothy Stone of Lebanon, Conn., a graduate of Yale College.
Dr. Pinneo graduated at Yale in the class of 1824. A severe illness in the winter after his
graduation made it necessary for him to spend his winters in the South until his health was
sufficiently restored to enable him to pursue the study of medicine. He taught for a time in
the Charlotte Hall Institute, Maryland, and then removed to Ohio. He acted one year as professor
of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy in Marietta College. He studied medicine in Cincinnati
and received the degree of Doctor of Medicine from the Ohio Medical College in 1843. On June
1, 1848, he married Jeanette Linsley, daughter of Rev. Dr. Joel H. Linsley, at one time president
of Marietta College. Dr. Pinneo was for eighteen years a resident in Cincinnati. In 1862 he
went to Greenwich, Conn., where he was occupied in literary work and in the conduct of a boys'
boarding school. In 1885, after his wife's death, he removed to Norwalk, Conn., where he died
August 2, 1893. Two daughters and a son survived him. Dr. Pinneo contributed materially to
the revisions of McGuffey's Readers made in 1843 and in 1853; but both these revisions passed
through the hands of Dr. McGuffey, then at the University of Virginia, and were approved by
him. It does not appear that Dr. Pinneo exercised any personal authority over the readers.
He was employed, for moderate amounts, to prepare revisions which were satisfactory to both
publisher and author. In the revision of 1843, his work was confined to the Third and Fourth
readers. The First and Second readers were remade by Daniel G. Mason, then a teacher in the
schools of Cincinnati. In the revision of 1853 the entire series passed through Dr. Pinneo's
hands. He probably corrected the proof sheets. Dr. Pinneo's latest work on the McGuffey Readers
was done in 1856.

After leaving Cincinnati, Dr. Pinneo prepared, and Mr. Smith published, a series of grammars--the
Analytical, issued in 1850, and the Primary, in 1854. He was also the author of a High School
Reader and of Hemans's Young Ladies' Readers. These books had for some years a considerable sale.

[Obed J. Wilson]

As early as 1853 Mr. Obed J. Wilson was in the office of Mr. Smith as an employee. Mr. Wilson
was born in Bingham, Maine, in 1826, and earned his first money as an axman in the pine forests
which were in that day near his native town. He obtained, in the common schools, sufficient
education to become a teacher and he never ceased to be a student, thus acquiring a broad acquaintance
with English literature. He taught in the schools of Cincinnati when he first went West. There
his abilities soon attracted the attention of Mr. Smith, who employed him. For some years he
traveled as an agent, chiefly in Indiana and Wisconsin, introducing the books of the Eclectic
Series. He gradually became Mr. Smith's trusted assistant, particularly in the direction of
the work of agents and in the selection of new books, and their adaptation to the demands of
the field. He married Miss Amanda Landrum, who was also a skilled teacher in the Cincinnati
schools. Mrs. Wilson was responsible for a revision of the McGuffey First Reader made in 1863.
She also at that time corrected the plates of the higher numbers of the series. For many years
thereafter Mr. Wilson was the chief authority for Mr. Smith and his successors in literary
matters, and few men excelled him in breadth of reading and in discriminating taste.

Mr. Wilson lives in his home near Cincinnati which is filled with the choice books which he
has read and studied so faithfully, and he still has the companionship of the wife who has
been his constant helpmate for more than half a century.

Mr. Winthrop B. Smith was the sole proprietor of the McGuffey Readers and his other publications
from 1841 until about 1852. He then admitted as partners, Edward Sargent and Daniel Bartow
Sargent, his wife's brothers, and the firm name became W.B. Smith & Co.

[Eastern Publishers]

While books could be manufactured in the West even in the early years cheaper than they could
be delivered in the West from the better organized establishments in the older cities of the
East, it was not possible to deliver books in New York from Cincinnati so cheaply as the books
could be made in the East. The cost of transportation constituted a very considerable element
in the price of schoolbooks. Mr. Smith therefore made an arrangement with Clark, Austin & Smith,
of New York, to become the Eastern publishers of the McGuffey Readers and other books, and
a duplicate set of plates was sent to New York. From these plates, editions of the readers
were manufactured, largely at Claremont, N.H., bearing on the title page the imprint of Clark,
Austin & Smith, New York.

The Smith of this firm was Cornelius Smith, a brother of Winthrop B. Smith. Cornelius Smith
withdrew from this firm before 1861. In that year the war broke out, and this New York firm,
which as booksellers and stationers had a large trade in the South, lost not only their custom
in that section, but were unable to collect large amounts due them for goods. Clark, Austin,
Maynard & Co. failed and Mr. W.B. Smith bought, in 1862, all their assets for the sum of $6,000,
placed Mr. W.B. Thalheimer in charge of the business and resumed control of the duplicate plates
of the McGuffey Readers.

From the location of Cincinnati on the Ohio river, then affording the cheapest means of distributing
goods to all parts of the South, Mr. Smith had obtained, before 1860, a very considerable part
of the schoolbook trade in the Southern states of the Mississippi Valley. The opening of the
Civil War swept this trade away and left on the books of the firm in Cincinnati many accounts
not then collectible. The continuance of the war and the constant fluctuations in the price
of materials, due to the use of paper money, joined to advancing age and ill health, all combined
to lead Mr. Smith to withdraw from business.

[New Firm Formed]

A new firm, Sargent, Wilson & Hinkle, was organized April 20, 1863, with Edward Sargent, Obed
J. Wilson and Anthony H. Hinkle as general partners, and with W.B. Smith and D.B. Sargent as
special partners.

These active partners had long been in this business, Mr. Sargent as a partner and bookkeeper,
Mr. Wilson as literary editor of skill and judgment and also a forceful manager of agents,
Mr. Hinkle as a thoroughly skilled binder and manufacturer.

Winthrop B. Smith and D.B. Sargent remained as special partners, furnishing capital but taking
no part in the direction of the business.

[Southern Reprint]

The Confederate States, at the opening of the War, had within their limits no publisher of
schoolbooks which had extensive sales. Nearly all of the schoolbooks used in the South were
printed in the North. But there were printing offices and binderies in the South. The children
continued to go to school, and the demand for schoolbooks soon became urgent. To meet this
demand, a few new schoolbooks were made and copyrighted under the laws of the Confederacy;
but others were reprints of Northern books such as were in general use. The Methodist Book
Concern of Nashville, Tenn., reprinted the McGuffey Readers and supplied the region south and
west of Nashville until the Federal line swept past that city. This action on the part of the
Methodist Book Concern had the effect of preserving the market for these readers, so that as
soon as any part of the South was strongly occupied by the Federal forces, orders came to the
Cincinnati publishers for fresh supplies of the McGuffey Readers. This unexpected preservation
of trade was of great benefit to the firm of Sargent, Wilson & Hinkle.

[Wilson, Hinkle & Co.]

In 1866 the special interests were closed out, and Mr. Lewis Van Antwerp was admitted as a
partner. On April 20, 1868, the firm of Sargent, Wilson & Hinkle was dissolved. Mr. Sargent
retired and the new firm, Wilson, Hinkle & Co., bought all the assets. At this date Mr. Robert
Quincy Beer became a partner. Mr. Beer had long been a trusted and successful agent and he
was put in charge of the agency department. Under this partnership the business gradually became
systematized in departments. One partner had in charge the reading of manuscripts and the placing
of accepted works in book form, one had charge of the manufacture of books from plates provided
by the first, and one of finding a market for the books. At the first organization of the firm
of Wilson, Hinkle & Co., Mr. Wilson was the literary manager as well as the director of agency
work. Mr. Hinkle was the manufacturer, having control of the printing and binding, and Mr.
Van Antwerp had charge of the accounts. Mr. Beer was brought in to relieve Mr. Wilson in the
direction of agents. But Mr. Beer died suddenly, January 3, 1870, and the surviving partners
soon sought for another competent and experienced man to take his place.

[Van Antwerp, Bragg & Co.]

Mr. Caleb S. Bragg had for years acted as the agent for a list of books selected by him from
the publications of two or three publishers and was a partner in the firm of Ingham & Bragg,
booksellers of Cleveland, Ohio. Mr. Bragg sold his interest in the business in Cleveland and
became a partner in Wilson, Hinkle & Co., on April 20, 1871; and at the same time Henry H.
Vail and Robert F. Leaman, who had for some years been employees, were each given an interest
in the profits although not admitted as full partners until three years later. Mr. Hinkle's
eldest son, A. Howard Hinkle, was brought up in the business, and the contract for 1874 provided
that he should be admitted as a partner, with his father's interest and in his place, when
that contract expired in 1877. The contract of 1874 was preparatory to the voluntary retirement
of both Mr. Wilson and Mr. Hinkle. Consequently, on April 20, 1877, the firm of Wilson, Hinkle
& Co. was dissolved and the business was purchased by the new firm. Van Antwerp, Bragg & Co.,
of which Lewis Van Antwerp, Caleb S. Bragg, Henry H. Vail, Robert F. Leaman, A. Howard Hinkle,
and Harry T. Ambrose were the partners. This firm continued unchanged until January 1, 1892,
except for the untimely death of Mr. Leaman on December 12, 1887, and the retirement of Mr.
Van Antwerp, January 2, 1890, just previous to the sale of the copyrights and plates owned
by the firm to the American Book Company.

This sale, completed May 15, 1890, did not then include the printing office and bindery belonging
to the firm. These were used by the firm of Van Antwerp, Bragg & Co. until January 1, 1892,
in manufacturing books ordered by the American Book Company. The American Book Company became,
on May 15, 1890, the owners, by purchase, of all the copyrights and plates formerly owned by
Van Antwerp, Bragg & Co. The four active partners in that firm, each of whom had then been
in the schoolbook business some twenty-five or thirty years, entered the employ of the American
Book Company. Mr. Bragg and Mr. Hinkle remained in charge of the Cincinnati business, Mr. Vail
and Mr. Ambrose went to New York; the former as editor in chief, the latter was at first treasurer,
but later became the president.

[A Vigorous Firm]

Van Antwerp, Bragg & Co. issued many new and successful books and remade many, including the
McGuffey Readers and Speller, Ray's Arithmetics and Harvey's Grammars. Most of these met with
acceptance and this was so full and universal throughout the central West as to give opportunity
to the competing agents of other houses to honor Van Antwerp, Bragg & Co. with such titles
as "Octopus" and "Monopoly," names that were used before "Trusts" were invented. They also
called the firm in chosen companies, "Van Anteup, Grabb & Co." These were mere playful or humorous
titles in recognition of the fact that this firm had, by its industry, skill and energy, captured
a larger share of the patronage of the people than was agreeable to its competitors, and they,
in despair of success by fair means, resorted to the old-fashioned method of calling their
antagonist bad names. The best books, if pressed vigorously and intelligently, were sure to
win in the end, and the people who used the books cared little what name appeared at the foot
of the title-page.

In all important book contests the firm that holds possession of the field is much in the situation
of the tallest man in a Kilkenny Fair. His head sticks up above the crowd and therefore gets
the most knocks.

[Revisers and Editors]

The latest revision of the McGuffey Readers, five books, was prepared and published by the
American Book Company in 1901, under the same general direction as the revision of 1878; but
the actual work was done by Dr. James Baldwin who was the author of the Harper Readers and
of Baldwin's Readers. Even in this latest edition there are in the higher books many selections
that appeared in the earliest. Care was taken to maintain the high moral tone that so clearly
marked Dr. McGuffey's work and to bring in from later literature some valuable new material
to displace that which had proved less interesting and less instructive. These books acquired
at once a large sale, and the sales of the previous editions are still remunerative.

Of the men connected with these successive owners of these copyrights it seems proper to name
those who directed the revisions which took place. It is evident that none were undertaken
without long and anxious discussions as to the need of revision and of its nature. In such
decisions all partners would take part; but finally the actual direction must come into the
hands of some one partner whose experience and qualification best fitted him for literary work.

As has been seen, Mr. Winthrop B. Smith was for a few years, while the business was still in
its infancy, the sole owner and the manager of every part of his business. Mr. Pinneo contributed
aid from 1843 to 1856; but even before his work was finished Mr. O.J. Wilson's skill became
recognized and his mind was dominant in literary matters so long as he remained a partner--until
1877. But in the meantime he had carefully trained a successor in the editorial work, and from
1877 until 1907 the responsibility fell upon him.

[New Competitors]

The story of the revisions of 1843 and 1853 has been told. The books were apparently in satisfactory
use in a large part of the West; but about 1874 the firm thought it wise to exploit a new series.
At its request Mr. Thomas W. Harvey prepared a series consisting of five books. This series
was published in 1875; but the experience of a few years with the Harvey Readers showed that
the people still preferred the McGuffey Readers and after long discussion and hesitation it
was agreed that these should again be revised. This determination was hastened by the publication
of the Appleton Readers in 1877, and by the incoming of a number of skilled agents pushing
these books in the field that had for many years been held so strongly for the McGuffey Readers
as to baffle the best endeavors of two or three Eastern publishers who had tested the market.

The Appleton Readers were prepared by Mr. Andrew J. Rickoff, then superintendent of the Cleveland
schools; Mr. William T. Harris, then superintendent of the St. Louis schools, and Professor
Mark Bailey of Yale College. They were largely aided in the lower readers by Mrs. Rickoff.
These books, with this array of scholarly and well-known authors, illustrated with carefully
prepared engravings, well printed and well bound, became at once formidable competitors for
patronage and went into use in many places where the McGuffey Readers had served at least two
generations of pupils. The Harvey Readers stood no chance in this competition.

[The Revision of 1878]

On April 9, 1878, the firm of Van Antwerp, Bragg & Co. determined upon making a new series
of readers bearing the well-recognized title of McGuffey's Eclectic Readers and distinguished
as a "Revised Edition." Some details of the plan as presented by the partner having literary
matters in charge were agreed to. The method of teaching in the first reader was to be adjusted
to a phonic-word method, and the gradation was to be improved. The selections of the older
books were to be retained except where they could be improved.

In accordance with this resolution the editor invited four persons to aid, during the summer,
in this work. These were Thomas W. Harvey of Painesville, Ohio; Robert W. Stevenson, of Columbus;
Edwin C. Hewett, of Bloomington, Ill.; and Miss Amanda Funnelle, of Terre Haute, Indiana. Each
was a teacher of wide experience.

