We had nothing to do, now, but bridge the cellar and proceed on our way. With a cheer the men
went at their work. I attended to the engineering, myself. I appointed a strong detail to cut
down trees with ice-axes and trim them for piers to support the bridge. This was a slow business,
for ice-axes are not good to cut wood with. I caused my piers to be firmly set up in ranks
in the cellar, and upon them I laid six of my forty-foot ladders, side by side, and laid six
more on top of them. Upon this bridge I caused a bed of boughs to be spread, and on top of
the boughs a bed of earth six inches deep. I stretched ropes upon either side to serve as railings,
and then my bridge was complete. A train of elephants could have crossed it in safety and comfort.
By nightfall the caravan was on the other side and the ladders were taken up.

Next morning we went on in good spirits for a while, though our way was slow and difficult,
by reason of the steep and rocky nature of the ground and the thickness of the forest; but
at last a dull despondency crept into the men's faces and it was apparent that not only they,
but even the guides, were now convinced that we were lost. The fact that we still met no tourists
was a circumstance that was but too significant. Another thing seemed to suggest that we were
not only lost, but very badly lost; for there must surely be searching-parties on the road
before this time, yet we had seen no sign of them.

Demoralization was spreading; something must be done, and done quickly, too. Fortunately, I
am not unfertile in expedients. I contrived one now which commended itself to all, for it promised
well. I took three-quarters of a mile of rope and fastened one end of it around the waist of
a guide, and told him to go find the road, while the caravan waited. I instructed him to guide
himself back by the rope, in case of failure; in case of success, he was to give the rope a
series of violent jerks, whereupon the Expedition would go to him at once. He departed, and
in two minutes had disappeared among the trees. I payed out the rope myself, while everybody
watched the crawling thing with eager eyes. The rope crept away quite slowly, at times, at
other times with some briskness. Twice or thrice we seemed to get the signal, and a shout was
just ready to break from the men's lips when they perceived it was a false alarm. But at last,
when over half a mile of rope had slidden away, it stopped gliding and stood absolutely still--one
minute--two minutes--three--while we held our breath and watched.

Was the guide resting? Was he scanning the country from some high point? Was he inquiring of
a chance mountaineer? Stop,--had he fainted from excess of fatigue and anxiety?

This thought gave us a shock. I was in the very first act of detailing an Expedition to succor
him, when the cord was assailed with a series of such frantic jerks that I could hardly keep
hold of it. The huzza that went up, then, was good to hear. "Saved! saved!" was the word that
rang out, all down the long rank of the caravan.

We rose up and started at once. We found the route to be good enough for a while, but it began
to grow difficult, by and by, and this feature steadily increased. When we judged we had gone
half a mile, we momently expected to see the guide; but no, he was not visible anywhere; neither
was he waiting, for the rope was still moving, consequently he was doing the same. This argued
that he had not found the road, yet, but was marching to it with some peasant. There was nothing
for us to do but plod along--and this we did. At the end of three hours we were still plodding.
This was not only mysterious, but exasperating. And very fatiguing, too; for we had tried hard,
along at first, to catch up with the guide, but had only fagged ourselves, in vain; for although
he was traveling slowly he was yet able to go faster than the hampered caravan over such ground.

At three in the afternoon we were nearly dead with exhaustion--and still the rope was slowly
gliding out. The murmurs against the guide had been growing steadily, and at last they were
become loud and savage. A mutiny ensued. The men refused to proceed. They declared that we
had been traveling over and over the same ground all day, in a kind of circle. They demanded
that our end of the rope be made fast to a tree, so as to halt the guide until we could overtake
him and kill him. This was not an unreasonable requirement, so I gave the order.

As soon as the rope was tied, the Expedition moved forward with that alacrity which the thirst
for vengeance usually inspires. But after a tiresome march of almost half a mile, we came to
a hill covered thick with a crumbly rubbish of stones, and so steep that no man of us all was
now in a condition to climb it. Every attempt failed, and ended in crippling somebody. Within
twenty minutes I had five men on crutches.

Whenever a climber tried to assist himself by the rope, it yielded and let him tumble backward.
The frequency of this result suggested an idea to me. I ordered the caravan to 'bout face and
form in marching order; I then made the tow-rope fast to the rear mule, and gave the command:

"Mark time--by the right flank--forward--march!"

The procession began to move, to the impressive strains of a battle-chant, and I said to myself,
"Now, if the rope don't break I judge THIS will fetch that guide into the camp." I watched
the rope gliding down the hill, and presently when I was all fixed for triumph I was confronted
by a bitter disappointment; there was no guide tied to the rope, it was only a very indignant
old black ram. The fury of the baffled Expedition exceeded all bounds. They even wanted to
wreak their unreasoning vengeance on this innocent dumb brute. But I stood between them and
their prey, menaced by a bristling wall of ice-axes and alpenstocks, and proclaimed that there
was but one road to this murder, and it was directly over my corpse. Even as I spoke I saw
that my doom was sealed, except a miracle supervened to divert these madmen from their fell
purpose. I see the sickening wall of weapons now; I see that advancing host as I saw it then,
I see the hate in those cruel eyes; I remember how I drooped my head upon my breast, I feel
again the sudden earthquake shock in my rear, administered by the very ram I was sacrificing
myself to save; I hear once more the typhoon of laughter that burst from the assaulting column
as I clove it from van to rear like a Sepoy shot from a Rodman gun.

I was saved. Yes, I was saved, and by the merciful instinct of ingratitude which nature had
planted in the breast of that treacherous beast. The grace which eloquence had failed to work
in those men's hearts, had been wrought by a laugh. The ram was set free and my life was spared.

We lived to find out that that guide had deserted us as soon as he had placed a half-mile between
himself and us. To avert suspicion, he had judged it best that the line should continue to
move; so he caught that ram, and at the time that he was sitting on it making the rope fast
to it, we were imagining that he was lying in a swoon, overcome by fatigue and distress. When
he allowed the ram to get up it fell to plunging around, trying to rid itself of the rope,
and this was the signal which we had risen up with glad shouts to obey. We had followed this
ram round and round in a circle all day--a thing which was proven by the discovery that we
had watered the Expedition seven times at one and same spring in seven hours. As expert a woodman
as I am, I had somehow failed to notice this until my attention was called to it by a hog.
This hog was always wallowing there, and as he was the only hog we saw, his frequent repetition,
together with his unvarying similarity to himself, finally caused me to reflect that he must
be the same hog, and this led me to the deduction that this must be the same spring, also--which
indeed it was.

I made a note of this curious thing, as showing in a striking manner the relative difference
between glacial action and the action of the hog. It is now a well-established fact that glaciers
move; I consider that my observations go to show, with equal conclusiveness, that a hog in
a spring does not move. I shall be glad to receive the opinions of other observers upon this point.

To return, for an explanatory moment, to that guide, and then I shall be done with him. After
leaving the ram tied to the rope, he had wandered at large a while, and then happened to run
across a cow. Judging that a cow would naturally know more than a guide, he took her by the
tail, and the result justified his judgment. She nibbled her leisurely way downhill till it
was near milking-time, then she struck for home and towed him into Zermatt.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

[I Conquer the Gorner Grat]

We went into camp on that wild spot to which that ram had brought us. The men were greatly
fatigued. Their conviction that we were lost was forgotten in the cheer of a good supper, and
before the reaction had a chance to set in, I loaded them up with paregoric and put them to bed.

Next morning I was considering in my mind our desperate situation and trying to think of a
remedy, when Harris came to me with a Baedeker map which showed conclusively that the mountain
we were on was still in Switzerland--yes, every part of it was in Switzerland. So we were not
lost, after all. This was an immense relief; it lifted the weight of two such mountains from
my breast. I immediately had the news disseminated and the map was exhibited. The effect was
wonderful. As soon as the men saw with their own eyes that they knew where they were, and that
it was only the summit that was lost and not themselves, they cheered up instantly and said
with one accord, let the summit take care of itself.

Our distresses being at an end, I now determined to rest the men in camp and give the scientific
department of the Expedition a chance. First, I made a barometric observation, to get our altitude,
but I could not perceive that there was any result. I knew, by my scientific reading, that
either thermometers or barometers ought to be boiled, to make them accurate; I did not know
which it was, so I boiled them both. There was still no result; so I examined these instruments
and discovered that they possessed radical blemishes: the barometer had no hand but the brass
pointer and the ball of the thermometer was stuffed with tin-foil. I might have boiled those
things to rags, and never found out anything.

I hunted up another barometer; it was new and perfect. I boiled it half an hour in a pot of
bean soup which the cooks were making. The result was unexpected: the instrument was not affecting
at all, but there was such a strong barometer taste to the soup that the head cook, who was
a most conscientious person, changed its name in the bill of fare. The dish was so greatly
liked by all, that I ordered the cook to have barometer soup every day.

It was believed that the barometer might eventually be injured, but I did not care for that.
I had demonstrated to my satisfaction that it could not tell how high a mountain was, therefore
I had no real use for it. Changes in the weather I could take care of without it; I did not
wish to know when the weather was going to be good, what I wanted to know was when it was going
to be bad, and this I could find out from Harris's corns. Harris had had his corns tested and
regulated at the government observatory in Heidelberg, and one could depend upon them with
confidence. So I transferred the new barometer to the cooking department, to be used for the
official mess. It was found that even a pretty fair article of soup could be made from the
defective barometer; so I allowed that one to be transferred to the subordinate mess.

I next boiled the thermometer, and got a most excellent result; the mercury went up to about
200 degrees Fahrenheit. In the opinion of the other scientists of the Expedition, this seemed
to indicate that we had attained the extraordinary altitude of two hundred thousand feet above
sea-level. Science places the line of eternal snow at about ten thousand feet above sea-level.
There was no snow where we were, consequently it was proven that the eternal snow-line ceases
somewhere above the ten-thousand-foot level and does not begin any more. This was an interesting
fact, and one which had not been observed by any observer before. It was as valuable as interesting,
too, since it would open up the deserted summits of the highest Alps to population and agriculture.
It was a proud thing to be where we were, yet it caused us a pang to reflect that but for that
ram we might just as well have been two hundred thousand feet higher.

The success of my last experiment induced me to try an experiment with my photographic apparatus.
I got it out, and boiled one of my cameras, but the thing was a failure; it made the wood swell
up and burst, and I could not see that the lenses were any better than they were before.

I now concluded to boil a guide. It might improve him, it could not impair his usefulness.
But I was not allowed to proceed. Guides have no feeling for science, and this one would not
consent to be made uncomfortable in its interest.

In the midst of my scientific work, one of those needless accidents happened which are always
occurring among the ignorant and thoughtless. A porter shot at a chamois and missed it and
crippled the Latinist. This was not a serious matter to me, for a Latinist's duties are as
well performed on crutches as otherwise--but the fact remained that if the Latinist had not
happened to be in the way a mule would have got that load. That would have been quite another
matter, for when it comes down to a question of value there is a palpable difference between
a Latinist and a mule. I could not depend on having a Latinist in the right place every time;
so, to make things safe, I ordered that in the future the chamois must not be hunted within
limits of the camp with any other weapon than the forefinger.

My nerves had hardly grown quiet after this affair when they got another shake-up--one which
utterly unmanned me for a moment: a rumor swept suddenly through the camp that one of the barkeepers
had fallen over a precipice!

However, it turned out that it was only a chaplain. I had laid in an extra force of chaplains,
purposely to be prepared for emergencies like this, but by some unaccountable oversight had
come away rather short-handed in the matter of barkeepers.

On the following morning we moved on, well refreshed and in good spirits. I remember this day
with peculiar pleasure, because it saw our road restored to us. Yes, we found our road again,
and in quite an extraordinary way. We had plodded along some two hours and a half, when we
came up against a solid mass of rock about twenty feet high. I did not need to be instructed
by a mule this time. I was already beginning to know more than any mule in the Expedition.
I at once put in a blast of dynamite, and lifted that rock out of the way. But to my surprise
and mortification, I found that there had been a chalet on top of it.

I picked up such members of the family as fell in my vicinity, and subordinates of my corps
collected the rest. None of these poor people were injured, happily, but they were much annoyed.
I explained to the head chaleteer just how the thing happened, and that I was only searching
for the road, and would certainly have given him timely notice if I had known he was up there.
I said I had meant no harm, and hoped I had not lowered myself in his estimation by raising
him a few rods in the air. I said many other judicious things, and finally when I offered to
rebuild his chalet, and pay for the breakages, and throw in the cellar, he was mollified and
satisfied. He hadn't any cellar at all, before; he would not have as good a view, now, as formerly,
but what he had lost in view he had gained in cellar, by exact measurement. He said there wasn't
another hole like that in the mountains--and he would have been right if the late mule had
not tried to eat up the nitroglycerin.

I put a hundred and sixteen men at work, and they rebuilt the chalet from its own debris in
fifteen minutes. It was a good deal more picturesque than it was before, too. The man said
we were now on the Feil-Stutz, above the Schwegmatt--information which I was glad to get, since
it gave us our position to a degree of particularity which we had not been accustomed to for
a day or so. We also learned that we were standing at the foot of the Riffelberg proper, and
that the initial chapter of our work was completed.

We had a fine view, from here, of the energetic Visp, as it makes its first plunge into the
world from under a huge arch of solid ice, worn through the foot-wall of the great Gorner Glacier;
and we could also see the Furggenbach, which is the outlet of the Furggen Glacier.

The mule-road to the summit of the Riffelberg passed right in front of the chalet, a circumstance
which we almost immediately noticed, because a procession of tourists was filing along it pretty
much all the time.

"Pretty much" may not be elegant English, but it is high time it was. There is no elegant word
or phrase which means just what it means.--M.T.

The chaleteer's business consisted in furnishing refreshments to tourists. My blast had interrupted
this trade for a few minutes, by breaking all the bottles on the place; but I gave the man
a lot of whiskey to sell for Alpine champagne, and a lot of vinegar which would answer for
Rhine wine, consequently trade was soon as brisk as ever.

Leaving the Expedition outside to rest, I quartered myself in the chalet, with Harris, proposing
to correct my journals and scientific observations before continuing the ascent. I had hardly
begun my work when a tall, slender, vigorous American youth of about twenty-three, who was
on his way down the mountain, entered and came toward me with that breezy self-complacency
which is the adolescent's idea of the well-bred ease of the man of the world. His hair was
short and parted accurately in the middle, and he had all the look of an American person who
would be likely to begin his signature with an initial, and spell his middle name out. He introduced
himself, smiling a smirky smile borrowed from the courtiers of the stage, extended a fair-skinned
talon, and while he gripped my hand in it he bent his body forward three times at the hips,
as the stage courtier does, and said in the airiest and most condescending and patronizing
way--I quite remember his exact language:

"Very glad to make your acquaintance, 'm sure; very glad indeed, assure you. I've read all
your little efforts and greatly admired them, and when I heard you were here, I ..."

I indicated a chair, and he sat down. This grandee was the grandson of an American of considerable
note in his day, and not wholly forgotten yet--a man who came so near being a great man that
he was quite generally accounted one while he lived.

I slowly paced the floor, pondering scientific problems, and heard this conversation:

GRANDSON. First visit to Europe?

HARRIS. Mine? Yes.

G.S. (With a soft reminiscent sigh suggestive of bygone joys that may be tasted in their freshness
but once.) Ah, I know what it is to you. A first visit!--ah, the romance of it! I wish I could
feel it again.

H. Yes, I find it exceeds all my dreams. It is enchantment. I go...

G.S. (With a dainty gesture of the hand signifying "Spare me your callow enthusiasms, good
friend.") Yes, I know, I know; you go to cathedrals, and exclaim; and you drag through league-long
picture-galleries and exclaim; and you stand here, and there, and yonder, upon historic ground,
and continue to exclaim; and you are permeated with your first crude conceptions of Art, and
are proud and happy. Ah, yes, proud and happy--that expresses it. Yes-yes, enjoy it--it is
right--it is an innocent revel.

H. And you? Don't you do these things now?

G.S. I! Oh, that is VERY good! My dear sir, when you are as old a traveler as I am, you will
not ask such a question as that. I visit the regulation gallery, moon around the regulation
cathedral, do the worn round of the regulation sights, YET?--Excuse me!

H. Well, what DO you do, then?

G.S. Do? I flit--and flit--for I am ever on the wing--but I avoid the herd. Today I am in Paris,
tomorrow in Berlin, anon in Rome; but you would look for me in vain in the galleries of the
Louvre or the common resorts of the gazers in those other capitals. If you would find me, you
must look in the unvisited nooks and corners where others never think of going. One day you
will find me making myself at home in some obscure peasant's cabin, another day you will find
me in some forgotten castle worshiping some little gem or art which the careless eye has overlooked
and which the unexperienced would despise; again you will find me as guest in the inner sanctuaries
of palaces while the herd is content to get a hurried glimpse of the unused chambers by feeing
a servant.

H. You are a GUEST in such places?

G.S. And a welcoming one.

H. It is surprising. How does it come?

G.S. My grandfather's name is a passport to all the courts in Europe. I have only to utter
that name and every door is open to me. I flit from court to court at my own free will and
pleasure, and am always welcome. I am as much at home in the palaces of Europe as you are among
your relatives. I know every titled person in Europe, I think. I have my pockets full of invitations
all the time. I am under promise to go to Italy, where I am to be the guest of a succession
of the noblest houses in the land. In Berlin my life is a continued round of gaiety in the
imperial palace. It is the same, wherever I go.

H. It must be very pleasant. But it must make Boston seem a little slow when you are at home.

G.S. Yes, of course it does. But I don't go home much. There's no life there--little to feed
a man's higher nature. Boston's very narrow, you know. She doesn't know it, and you couldn't
convince her of it--so I say nothing when I'm there: where's the use? Yes, Boston is very narrow,
but she has such a good opinion of herself that she can't see it. A man who has traveled as
much as I have, and seen as much of the world, sees it plain enough, but he can't cure it,
you know, so the best is to leave it and seek a sphere which is more in harmony with his tastes
and culture. I run across there, once a year, perhaps, when I have nothing important on hand,
but I'm very soon back again. I spend my time in Europe.

H. I see. You map out your plans and ...

G.S. No, excuse me. I don't map out any plans. I simply follow the inclination of the day.
I am limited by no ties, no requirements, I am not bound in any way. I am too old a traveler
to hamper myself with deliberate purposes. I am simply a traveler--an inveterate traveler--a
man of the world, in a word--I can call myself by no other name. I do not say, "I am going
here, or I am going there"--I say nothing at all, I only act. For instance, next week you may
find me the guest of a grandee of Spain, or you may find me off for Venice, or flitting toward
Dresden. I shall probably go to Egypt presently; friends will say to friends, "He is at the
Nile cataracts"--and at that very moment they will be surprised to learn that I'm away off
yonder in India somewhere. I am a constant surprise to people. They are always saying, "Yes,
he was in Jerusalem when we heard of him last, but goodness knows where he is now."

Presently the Grandson rose to leave--discovered he had an appointment with some Emperor, perhaps.
He did his graces over again: gripped me with one talon, at arm's-length, pressed his hat against
his stomach with the other, bent his body in the middle three times, murmuring:

"Pleasure, 'm sure; great pleasure, 'm sure. Wish you much success."

Then he removed his gracious presence. It is a great and solemn thing to have a grandfather.

I have not purposed to misrepresent this boy in any way, for what little indignation he excited
in me soon passed and left nothing behind it but compassion. One cannot keep up a grudge against
a vacuum. I have tried to repeat this lad's very words; if I have failed anywhere I have at
least not failed to reproduce the marrow and meaning of what he said. He and the innocent chatterbox
whom I met on the Swiss lake are the most unique and interesting specimens of Young America
I came across during my foreign tramping. I have made honest portraits of them, not caricatures.

The Grandson of twenty-three referred to himself five or six times as an "old traveler," and
as many as three times (with a serene complacency which was maddening) as a "man of the world."
There was something very delicious about his leaving Boston to her "narrowness," unreproved
and uninstructed.

I formed the caravan in marching order, presently, and after riding down the line to see that
it was properly roped together, gave the command to proceed. In a little while the road carried
us to open, grassy land. We were above the troublesome forest, now, and had an uninterrupted
view, straight before us, of our summit--the summit of the Riffelberg.

We followed the mule-road, a zigzag course, now to the right, now to the left, but always up,
and always crowded and incommoded by going and coming files of reckless tourists who were never,
in a single instance, tied together. I was obliged to exert the utmost care and caution, for
in many places the road was not two yards wide, and often the lower side of it sloped away
in slanting precipices eight and even nine feet deep. I had to encourage the men constantly,
to keep them from giving way to their unmanly fears.

We might have made the summit before night, but for a delay caused by the loss of an umbrella.
I was allowing the umbrella to remain lost, but the men murmured, and with reason, for in this
exposed region we stood in peculiar need of protection against avalanches; so I went into camp
and detached a strong party to go after the missing article.

The difficulties of the next morning were severe, but our courage was high, for our goal was
near. At noon we conquered the last impediment--we stood at last upon the summit, and without
the loss of a single man except the mule that ate the glycerin. Our great achievement was achieved--the
possibility of the impossible was demonstrated, and Harris and I walked proudly into the great
dining-room of the Riffelberg Hotel and stood our alpenstocks up in the corner.

Yes, I had made the grand ascent; but it was a mistake to do it in evening dress. The plug
hats were battered, the swallow-tails were fluttering rags, mud added no grace, the general
effect was unpleasant and even disreputable.

There were about seventy-five tourists at the hotel--mainly ladies and little children--and
they gave us an admiring welcome which paid us for all our privations and sufferings. The ascent
had been made, and the names and dates now stand recorded on a stone monument there to prove
it to all future tourists.

