"What DID you hear?" Glennard asked; and his wife interposed: "Won't you have another bit of
cake, Julia? Or, Stephen, ring for some hot toast, please." Her tone betrayed a polite satiety
of the topic under discussion. Glennard turned to the bell, but Mrs. Armiger pursued him with
her lovely amazement.

"Why, the 'Aubyn Letters'--didn't you know about it? The girl read them so beautifully that
it was quite horrible--I should have fainted if there'd been a man near enough to carry me out."

Hartly's glee redoubled, and Dresham said, jovially, "How like you women to raise a shriek
over the book and then do all you can to encourage the blatant publicity of the readings!"

Mrs. Armiger met him more than half-way on a torrent of self-accusal. "It WAS horrid; it was
disgraceful. I told your wife we ought all to be ashamed of ourselves for going, and I think
Alexa was quite right to refuse to take any tickets--even if it was for a charity."

"Oh," her hostess murmured, indifferently, "with me charity begins at home. I can't afford
emotional luxuries."

"A charity? A charity?" Hartly exulted. "I hadn't seized the full beauty of it. Reading poor
Margaret Aubyn's love-letters at the Waldorf before five hundred people for a charity! WHAT
charity, dear Mrs. Armiger?"

"Why, the Home for Friendless Women--"

"It was well chosen," Dresham commented; and Hartly buried his mirth in the sofa-cushions.

When they were alone Glennard, still holding his untouched cup of tea, turned to his wife,
who sat silently behind the kettle. "Who asked you to take a ticket for that reading?"

"I don't know, really--Kate Dresham, I fancy. It was she who got it up."

"It's just the sort of damnable vulgarity she's capable of! It's loathsome--it's monstrous--"

His wife, without looking up, answered gravely, "I thought so too. It was for that reason I
didn't go. But you must remember that very few people feel about Mrs. Aubyn as you do--"

Glennard managed to set down his cup with a steady hand, but the room swung round with him
and he dropped into the nearest chair. "As I do?" he repeated.

"I mean that very few people knew her when she lived in New York. To most of the women who
went to the reading she was a mere name, too remote to have any personality. With me, of course,
it was different--"

Glennard gave her a startled look. "Different? Why different?"

"Since you were her friend--"

"Her friend!" He stood up impatiently. "You speak as if she had had only one--the most famous
woman of her day!" He moved vaguely about the room, bending down to look at some books on the
table. "I hope," he added, "you didn't give that as a reason, by the way?"

"A reason?"

"For not going. A woman who gives reasons for getting out of social obligations is sure to
make herself unpopular or ridiculous.

The words were uncalculated; but in an instant he saw that they had strangely bridged the distance
between his wife and himself. He felt her close on him, like a panting foe; and her answer
was a flash that showed the hand on the trigger.

"I seem," she said from the threshold, "to have done both in giving my reason to you."

The fact that they were dining out that evening made it easy for him to avoid Alexa till she
came downstairs in her opera-cloak. Mrs. Touchett, who was going to the same dinner, had offered
to call for her, and Glennard, refusing a precarious seat between the ladies' draperies, followed
on foot. The evening was interminable. The reading at the Waldorf, at which all the women had
been present, had revived the discussion of the "Aubyn Letters" and Glennard, hearing his wife
questioned as to her absence, felt himself miserably wishing that she had gone, rather than
that her staying away should have been remarked. He was rapidly losing all sense of proportion
where the "Letters" were concerned. He could no longer hear them mentioned without suspecting
a purpose in the allusion; he even yielded himself for a moment to the extravagance of imagining
that Mrs. Dresham, whom he disliked, had organized the reading in the hope of making him betray
himself--for he was already sure that Dresham had divined his share in the transaction.

The attempt to keep a smooth surface on this inner tumult was as endless and unavailing as
efforts made in a nightmare. He lost all sense of what he was saying to his neighbors and once
when he looked up his wife's glance struck him cold.

She sat nearly opposite him, at Flamel's side, and it appeared to Glennard that they had built
about themselves one of those airy barriers of talk behind which two people can say what they
please. While the reading was discussed they were silent. Their silence seemed to Glennard
almost cynical--it stripped the last disguise from their complicity. A throb of anger rose
in him, but suddenly it fell, and he felt, with a curious sense of relief, that at bottom he
no longer cared whether Flamel had told his wife or not. The assumption that Flamel knew about
the letters had become a fact to Glennard; and it now seemed to him better that Alexa should
know too.

He was frightened at first by the discovery of his own indifference. The last barriers of his
will seemed to be breaking down before a flood of moral lassitude. How could he continue to
play his part, to keep his front to the enemy, with this poison of indifference stealing through
his veins? He tried to brace himself with the remembrance of his wife's scorn. He had not forgotten
the note on which their conversation had closed. If he had ever wondered how she would receive
the truth he wondered no longer--she would despise him. But this lent a new insidiousness to
his temptation, since her contempt would be a refuge from his own. He said to himself that,
since he no longer cared for the consequences, he could at least acquit himself of speaking
in self-defence. What he wanted now was not immunity but castigation: his wife's indignation
might still reconcile him to himself. Therein lay his one hope of regeneration; her scorn was
the moral antiseptic that he needed, her comprehension the one balm that could heal him....

When they left the dinner he was so afraid of speaking that he let her drive home alone, and
went to the club with Flamel.

IX

HE rose next morning with the resolve to know what Alexa thought of him. It was not anchoring
in a haven, but lying to in a storm--he felt the need of a temporary lull in the turmoil of
his sensations.

He came home late, for they were dining alone and he knew that they would have the evening
together. When he followed her to the drawing-room after dinner he thought himself on the point
of speaking; but as she handed him his coffee he said, involuntarily: "I shall have to carry
this off to the study, I've got a lot of work to-night."

Alone in the study he cursed his cowardice. What was it that had withheld him? A certain bright
unapproachableness seemed to keep him at arm's length. She was not the kind of woman whose
compassion could be circumvented; there was no chance of slipping past the outposts; he would
never take her by surprise. Well--why not face her, then? What he shrank from could be no worse
than what he was enduring. He had pushed back his chair and turned to go upstairs when a new
expedient presented itself. What if, instead of telling her, he were to let her find out for
herself and watch the effect of the discovery before speaking? In this way he made over to
chance the burden of the revelation.

The idea had been suggested by the sight of the formula enclosing the publisher's check. He
had deposited the money, but the notice accompanying it dropped from his note-case as he cleared
his table for work. It was the formula usual in such cases and revealed clearly enough that
he was the recipient of a royalty on Margaret Aubyn's letters. It would be impossible for Alexa
to read it without understanding at once that the letters had been written to him and that
he had sold them....

He sat downstairs till he heard her ring for the parlor-maid to put out the lights; then he
went up to the drawing-room with a bundle of papers in his hand. Alexa was just rising from
her seat and the lamplight fell on the deep roll of hair that overhung her brow like the eaves
of a temple. Her face had often the high secluded look of a shrine; and it was this touch of
awe in her beauty that now made him feel himself on the brink of sacrilege.

Lest the feeling should dominate him, he spoke at once. "I've brought you a piece of work--a
lot of old bills and things that I want you to sort for me. Some are not worth keeping--but
you'll be able to judge of that. There may be a letter or two among them--nothing of much account,
but I don't like to throw away the whole lot without having them looked over and I haven't
time to do it myself."

He held out the papers and she took them with a smile that seemed to recognize in the service
he asked the tacit intention of making amends for the incident of the previous day.

"Are you sure I shall know which to keep?"

"Oh, quite sure," he answered, easily--"and besides, none are of much importance."

The next morning he invented an excuse for leaving the house without seeing her, and when he
returned, just before dinner, he found a visitor's hat and stick in the hall. The visitor was
Flamel, who was in the act of taking leave.

He had risen, but Alexa remained seated; and their attitude gave the impression of a colloquy
that had prolonged itself beyond the limits of speech. Both turned a surprised eye on Glennard
and he had the sense of walking into a room grown suddenly empty, as though their thoughts
were conspirators dispersed by his approach. He felt the clutch of his old fear. What if his
wife had already sorted the papers and had told Flamel of her discovery? Well, it was no news
to Flamel that Glennard was in receipt of a royalty on the "Aubyn Letters."...

A sudden resolve to know the worst made him lift his eyes to his wife as the door closed on
Flamel. But Alexa had risen also, and bending over her writing-table, with her back to Glennard,
was beginning to speak precipitately.

"I'm dining out to-night--you don't mind my deserting you? Julia Armiger sent me word just
now that she had an extra ticket for the last Ambrose concert. She told me to say how sorry
she was that she hadn't two--but I knew YOU wouldn't be sorry!" She ended with a laugh that
had the effect of being a strayed echo of Mrs. Armiger's; and before Glennard could speak she
had added, with her hand on the door, "Mr. Flamel stayed so late that I've hardly time to dress.
The concert begins ridiculously early, and Julia dines at half-past seven--"

Glennard stood alone in the empty room that seemed somehow full of an ironical consciousness
of what was happening. "She hates me," he murmured. "She hates me...."

The next day was Sunday, and Glennard purposely lingered late in his room. When he came downstairs
his wife was already seated at the breakfast-table. She lifted her usual smile to his entrance
and they took shelter in the nearest topic, like wayfarers overtaken by a storm. While he listened
to her account of the concert he began to think that, after all, she had not yet sorted the
papers, and that her agitation of the previous day must be ascribed to another cause, in which
perhaps he had but an indirect concern. He wondered it had never before occurred to him that
Flamel was the kind of man who might very well please a woman at his own expense, without need
of fortuitous assistance. If this possibility cleared the outlook it did not brighten it. Glennard
merely felt himself left alone with his baseness.

Alexa left the breakfast-table before him and when he went up to the drawing-room he found
her dressed to go out.

"Aren't you a little early for church?" he asked.

She replied that, on the way there, she meant to stop a moment at her mother's; and while she
drew on her gloves, he fumbled among the knick-knacks on the mantel-piece for a match to light
his cigarette.

"Well, good-by," she said, turning to go; and from the threshold she added: "By the way, I've
sorted the papers you gave me. Those that I thought you would like to keep are on your study-table."
She went downstairs and he heard the door close behind her.

She had sorted the papers--she knew, then--she MUST know--and she had made no sign!

Glennard, he hardly knew how, found himself once more in the study. On the table lay the packet
he had given her. It was much smaller--she had evidently gone over the papers with care, destroying
the greater number. He loosened the elastic band and spread the remaining envelopes on his
desk. The publisher's notice was among them.

X

His wife knew and she made no sign. Glennard found himself in the case of the seafarer who,
closing his eyes at nightfall on a scene he thinks to put leagues behind him before day, wakes
to a port-hole framing the same patch of shore. From the kind of exaltation to which his resolve
had lifted him he dropped to an unreasoning apathy. His impulse of confession had acted as
a drug to self-reproach. He had tried to shift a portion of his burden to his wife's shoulders
and now that she had tacitly refused to carry it, he felt the load too heavy to be taken up again.

A fortunate interval of hard work brought respite from this phase of sterile misery. He went
West to argue an important case, won it, and came back to fresh preoccupations. His own affairs
were thriving enough to engross him in the pauses of his professional work, and for over two
months he had little time to look himself in the face. Not unnaturally--for he was as yet unskilled
in the subtleties of introspection--he mistook his temporary insensibility for a gradual revival
of moral health.

He told himself that he was recovering his sense of proportion, getting to see things in their
true light; and if he now thought of his rash appeal to his wife's sympathy it was as an act
of folly from the consequences of which he had been saved by the providence that watches over
madmen. He had little leisure to observe Alexa; but he concluded that the common-sense momentarily
denied him had counselled her uncritical acceptance of the inevitable. If such a quality was
a poor substitute for the passionate justness that had once seemed to characterize her, he
accepted the alternative as a part of that general lowering of the key that seems needful to
the maintenance of the matrimonial duet. What woman ever retained her abstract sense of justice
where another woman was concerned? Possibly the thought that he had profited by Mrs. Aubyn's
tenderness was not wholly disagreeable to his wife.

When the pressure of work began to lessen, and he found himself, in the lengthening afternoons,
able to reach home somewhat earlier, he noticed that the little drawing-room was always full
and that he and his wife seldom had an evening alone together. When he was tired, as often
happened, she went out alone; the idea of giving up an engagement to remain with him seemed
not to occur to her. She had shown, as a girl, little fondness for society, nor had she seemed
to regret it during the year they had spent in the country. He reflected, however, that he
was sharing the common lot of husbands, who proverbially mistake the early ardors of housekeeping
for a sign of settled domesticity. Alexa, at any rate, was refuting his theory as inconsiderately
as a seedling defeats the gardener's expectations. An undefinable change had come over her.
In one sense it was a happy one, since she had grown, if not handsomer, at least more vivid
and expressive; her beauty had become more communicable: it was as though she had learned the
conscious exercise of intuitive attributes and now used her effects with the discrimination
of an artist skilled in values. To a dispassionate critic (as Glennard now rated himself) the
art may at times have been a little too obvious. Her attempts at lightness lacked spontaneity,
and she sometimes rasped him by laughing like Julia Armiger; but he had enough imagination
to perceive that, in respect of the wife's social arts, a husband necessarily sees the wrong
side of the tapestry.

In this ironical estimate of their relation Glennard found himself strangely relieved of all
concern as to his wife's feelings for Flamel. From an Olympian pinnacle of indifference he
calmly surveyed their inoffensive antics. It was surprising how his cheapening of his wife
put him at ease with himself. Far as he and she were from each other they yet had, in a sense,
the tacit nearness of complicity. Yes, they were accomplices; he could no more be jealous of
her than she could despise him. The jealousy that would once have seemed a blur on her whiteness
now appeared like a tribute to ideals in which he no longer believed....

Glennard was little given to exploring the outskirts of literature. He always skipped the "literary
notices" in the papers and he had small leisure for the intermittent pleasures of the periodical.
He had therefore no notion of the prolonged reverberations which the "Aubyn Letters" had awakened
in the precincts of criticism. When the book ceased to be talked about he supposed it had ceased
to be read; and this apparent subsidence of the agitation about it brought the reassuring sense
that he had exaggerated its vitality. The conviction, if it did not ease his conscience, at
least offered him the relative relief of obscurity: he felt like an offender taken down from
the pillory and thrust into the soothing darkness of a cell.

But one evening, when Alexa had left him to go to a dance, he chanced to turn over the magazines
on her table, and the copy of the Horoscope, to which he settled down with his cigar, confronted
him, on its first page, with a portrait of Margaret Aubyn. It was a reproduction of the photograph
that had stood so long on his desk. The desiccating air of memory had turned her into the mere
abstraction of a woman, and this unexpected evocation seemed to bring her nearer than she had
ever been in life. Was it because he understood her better? He looked long into her eyes; little
personal traits reached out to him like caresses--the tired droop of her lids, her quick way
of leaning forward as she spoke, the movements of her long expressive hands. All that was feminine
in her, the quality he had always missed, stole toward him from her unreproachful gaze; and
now that it was too late life had developed in him the subtler perceptions which could detect
it in even this poor semblance of herself. For a moment he found consolation in the thought
that, at any cost, they had thus been brought together; then a flood of shame rushed over him.
Face to face with her, he felt himself laid bare to the inmost fold of consciousness. The shame
was deep, but it was a renovating anguish; he was like a man whom intolerable pain has roused
from the creeping lethargy of death....

He rose next morning to as fresh a sense of life as though his hour of mute communion with
Margaret Aubyn had been a more exquisite renewal of their earlier meetings. His waking thought
was that he must see her again; and as consciousness affirmed itself he felt an intense fear
of losing the sense of her nearness. But she was still close to him; her presence remained
the sole reality in a world of shadows. All through his working hours he was re-living with
incredible minuteness every incident of their obliterated past; as a man who has mastered the
spirit of a foreign tongue turns with renewed wonder to the pages his youth has plodded over.
In this lucidity of retrospection the most trivial detail had its significance, and the rapture
of recovery was embittered to Glennard by the perception of all that he had missed. He had
been pitiably, grotesquely stupid; and there was irony in the thought that, but for the crisis
through which he was passing, he might have lived on in complacent ignorance of his loss. It
was as though she had bought him with her blood....

That evening he and Alexa dined alone. After dinner he followed her to the drawing-room. He
no longer felt the need of avoiding her; he was hardly conscious of her presence. After a few
words they lapsed into silence and he sat smoking with his eyes on the fire. It was not that
he was unwilling to talk to her; he felt a curious desire to be as kind as possible; but he
was always forgetting that she was there. Her full bright presence, through which the currents
of life flowed so warmly, had grown as tenuous as a shadow, and he saw so far beyond her--

Presently she rose and began to move about the room. She seemed to be looking for something
and he roused himself to ask what she wanted.

"Only the last number of the Horoscope. I thought I'd left it on this table." He said nothing,
and she went on: "You haven't seen it?"

"No," he returned coldly. The magazine was locked in his desk.

His wife had moved to the mantel-piece. She stood facing him and as he looked up he met her
tentative gaze. "I was reading an article in it--a review of Mrs. Aubyn's letters," she added,
slowly, with her deep, deliberate blush.

Glennard stooped to toss his cigar into the fire. He felt a savage wish that she would not
speak the other woman's name; nothing else seemed to matter. "You seem to do a lot of reading,"
he said.

She still earnestly confronted him. "I was keeping this for you--I thought it might interest
you," she said, with an air of gentle insistence.

He stood up and turned away. He was sure she knew that he had taken the review and he felt
that he was beginning to hate her again.

"I haven't time for such things," he said, indifferently. As he moved to the door he heard
her take a precipitate step forward; then she paused and sank without speaking into the chair
from which he had risen.

XI

As Glennard, in the raw February sunlight, mounted the road to the cemetery, he felt the beatitude
that comes with an abrupt cessation of physical pain. He had reached the point where self-analysis
ceases; the impulse that moved him was purely intuitive. He did not even seek a reason for
it, beyond the obvious one that his desire to stand by Margaret Aubyn's grave was prompted
by no attempt at a sentimental reparation, but rather by the vague need to affirm in some way
the reality of the tie between them.

