NATIVE NAMES.--Chowsingha, Chowka. Jerdon also gives Bherki, Bekra, and Jangli-bakra, but I
have also heard these names given by natives to the rib-faced deer (Cervulus aureus); Bhir-kura
(the male) and Bhir(female) Gondi; Bhirul of Bheels; Kotri, Bustar; Kond-guri, Canarese; Konda-gori,
Telegu (Jerdon). Kinloch also gives Doda, Hindi.

HABITAT.--Throughout India, but not in Ceylon or Burmah.

DESCRIPTION.--A small brownish-bay animal, slightly higher at the croup than at the shoulder,
which gives it a poky look, lighter beneath and whitish inside the limbs and in the middle
of the belly; fore-legs, muzzle, and edge of ears dark; fetlocks dark, sometimes ringed with
lighter colour. The colouring varies a good deal. The horns are situated as I have before described;
the anterior ones are subject to much variation; sometimes they are absent or represented merely
by a black callous skin; others are merely little knobs; the largest seldom exceed an inch
and a-half, and the posterior horns five inches.

SIZE.--Head and body, 40 to 42 inches; height at shoulder, 24 to 26 inches; at croup a little
higher.

This little antelope, the smallest of Indian hollow-horned ruminants, is very shy and difficult
to get, even in jungles where it abounds. It was plentiful in the Seonee district, yet I seldom
came across it, and was long before I secured a pair of live ones for my collection. It frequents,
according to my experience, bamboo jungle; but, according to Kinloch, Jerdon and other writers,
it is found in jungly hills and open glades, in the forests, and in bushy ground near dense
forests.

It is an awkward-looking creature in action, as it runs with its neck stuck out in a poky sort
of way, making short leaps; in walking it trips along on the tips of its toes like the little
mouse-deer (Meminna). The young are stated to be born in the cold season. General Hardwicke
created great confusion for a time by applying the name chikara, which is that of the Gazella
Bennetti, to this species. It is not good eating, but can be improved by being well larded
with mutton fat when roasted. McMaster believes in the individuality of Elliot's antelope (T.
sub-quadricornutus), but more evidence is required before it can be separated from quadricornis.
The mere variation in size, or the presence or absence of the anterior horns and the lighter
shade of colour, are not sufficient reasons for its separation as a species, for the quadricornis
is subject to variation in like manner.[39]

[Footnote 39: See notes in Appendix C.]

BOVINAE--CATTLE.

These comprise the oxen, and wind up the hollow-horned ruminants as far as India is concerned.
There are in the New World some other very interesting animals of this group, such as the musk-ox
(Ovibos), and the prong-horned antelope (Antilocapra), which last so far resembles the Cervidae
that the horns, which are bifurcate, are also annually shed. They come off the bony core, on
which the new horn is already beginning to form.

The Bovines are animals of large size, horned in both sexes, a very large and broad moist muffle,
massive bodies and stout legs. The horns, which are laterally wide spread, are supported on
cores of cellular bone, and are cylindrical or depressed at the base. The nose broad, with
the nostrils at the side. The skull has no sub-orbital pit or fissure, and the bony orbit is
prominent; grinders with a well-developed supplementary lobe; cannon bone short. In India,
the groups into which this sub-family may be divided, are oxen, the buffaloes, and the yaks.
There are no true bison in our limits, the commonly so-called bison being properly a wild ox.
The taurine or Ox group is divided into the Zebus, or humped domestic cattle; Taurus, humpless
cattle with cylindrical horns; and Gavaeus, humpless cattle with flattened horns.

