I confess to you, at the outset, that I do not like such a task as to- day seems to be imposed
upon me. I do not like to be put in the position of seeming to criticise my fellow- citizens,
my friends, and neighbors; but it seems to me that it is more than a task, that it is a duty,
and one that I cannot readily escape. I mean as little as possible even to seem to criticise
people; but I must look into the foundations of their beliefs, and see whether they are valid,
whether there is any reason why we should feel ourselves compelled to-day to accept them.

Let us take our place, then, at the outset of Christianity by the side of Jesus and the apostles.
Now let us note one strange fact. For the first two or three hundred years the belief of the
Church was chaotic, unconfirmed, unsettled. There was dispute and discussion of the most earnest
and most bitter kind concerning what are regarded to-day as the very fundamentals of the Christian
faith.

This would hardly seem possible, would it, if Jesus had made himself perfectly clear and explicit
in regard to these matters? If Jesus were really God, and if he came down on to this earth
for the one express purpose of telling humanity what kind of moral and spiritual condition
it was in, just what it needed in order to be saved, would you not suppose that he would have
been so clear that there could have been no honest question about it?

If, for example, Jesus knew he was God, ought not he to have told it so plainly that no honest
man could go astray about it? If he knew that the human race fell in Adam and was in a condition
of loss under the general wrath and curse of God, ought not he to have said something about
Adam, something about the Garden of Eden, something about the fall? Yet it never appears anywhere
that he did. If he knew it was absolutely necessary for us to hold certain ideas about the
Bible, ought not he to have told us? If he knew that the great majority of the human race was
going to endless and hopeless torment in the future unless they held certain beliefs, ought
not he to have made it plain?

But take that which I read as a part of our Scripture lesson this morning, that magnificent
picture of the judgment scene, where he divides the sheep on his right hand and the goats on
his left. Who are the sheep, and who are the goats? Those who are to be admitted with glad
welcome to the presence of the Father are simply those that have been morally good; and those
who are told they must be shut out are simply those who have bee morally bad. There is no hint
of the necessity of any belief at all. Nothing said about any Bible, about any Trinity, about
any faith, about anything that is supposed to be essential as a condition of salvation, not
a word. Only the good receive the welcome, and the bad are shut out. That is all.

If this is not true, ought he not to have told us something about it, and made it perfectly clear?

Now what was the condition of popular belief? Let me illustrate it by one or two points. Origen,
for example, one of the most famous of the Church Fathers, believed and preached the pre-existence
of the human soul and universal salvation. Now, if Jesus said anything contrary to this belief
of universal salvation, either Origen did not know anything about it or he did not regard it
as of any authority, one or the other. We cannot conceive of his holding a position of this
sort if he had known that Jesus had pronounced explicitly to the contrary.

Take another illustration. Two weeks ago this morning I had occasion to quote to you a few
words from another of the old Church Fathers, Justin Martyr, who taught explicitly that Jesus
was not the equal of the Father, but a subordinate and created being. Now, if Jesus had clearly
taught anything approaching the doctrine of the Trinity, is it conceivable that Justin Martyr
had not heard of it, or, having heard of it, had not accepted it?

At any rate, if these things were true and important, it is inconceivable that the Church Fathers,
the very founders of Christianity, should have been all at sea in regard to them, should have
held divergent opinions, and should have been discussing these questions one way and the other
for three hundred years.

Let us now see what we have as a basis for belief in regard to what Jesus really did say. The
Gospels grew up in a time when there was no shorthand writing, no reporting. Jesus does not
say one word about having any record made of his teaching, does not seem to have considered
it of the slightest importance. He simply talks and converses as friend with friend, preaches
to the crowds wherever they gather, but says nothing whatever about founding any system of
doctrine, says nothing about the importance of having a statement of his doctrine kept.

The Gospels, as a matter of fact, did not come into their present shape for many years after
his death. How long? The critics are not at one in regard to it. A book has recently been translated
from the German, by a professor in the Union Theological Seminary in this State, which says
that not a single one of the Gospels was known in its present shape until between the years
150 and 200 A.D. All scholars do not accept this; but they are all at one in the statement
that it was a great many years after the death of Jesus before they came into the shape in
which we know them to-day.

There was, then, no clear record at the first in regard to these matters of belief; and, as
I said a moment ago, for the first two or three hundred years the condition of the Church was
chaotic. It was a long time coming to a consciousness of itself.

Now let us note the time when a few of the creeds were formed, and what are some of their characteristics.

Although the Apostles' Creed would seem to take us back to the apostles, we are not to deal
with that first, because it was not the first one of the creeds to come into its present shape.

The oldest creed that we have to-day is the Nicene. When was that formed? It was agreed upon
at the Council of Nicaea, in the early part of the fourth century. Now note, if you please,
what influences shaped and determined it.

Did those who proposed that this particular clause or that should enter into it have any proof
of their belief? Did they even claim to have? Why, the idea of evidence, the thought of proof,
was absolutely unknown to the mind of Christendom at that time. Nobody thought of such a thing
as proposing to prove that this or that or the other was true.

The Nicene Creed came into existence very much, indeed, as does the platform of a political
party at the present time. One man fought for this proposition, another man for that one; and
at last it was a sort of compromise decided by a majority. And how was the majority reached?
Friends, there were bribes, there were threats, there were all kinds of intimidation, there
were blows, there was wrangling of every kind, there was banishment, there was murder. There
has not been a political platform in the modern world evolved out of such brutal, conflicting,
anti-religious conditions as those which prevailed before and in connection with the Council
of Nicaea.

Anything like evidence? Not heard of or thought of. Anything like quiet brooding of those who
supposed they were, under the influence of the Holy Ghost, receiving divine and sacred truth?
The farthest possible from any conditions that could be suggested by such a thought.

And at the last, though undoubtedly the majority of the Church at that time was Unitarian,
as I told you the other day it was the decisive influence of the Emperor Constantine which
settled the controversy. Thus came into existence in the fourth century the oldest of the church
Creeds which is recognized as authoritative in the Catholic, the Anglican, and the Episcopal
churches of the present time.

And this Nicene Creed, if I had time to go into it and analyze it, I could show you contains
elements which no intelligent man in any of these churches thinks of believing at the present
time; and yet nobody dares suggest a change, or the bringing it into accord with what the intelligence
of the modern world knows to be true.

Let us pass on, and consider for a moment the Apostles' Creed, so called. There was a time
in the Church when people really supposed that the apostles were its author. There are persons
to-day who have not discovered the contrary. I crossed the ocean a few years ago when on board
were a bishop of one of the Western States and a young candidate for orders who was travelling
with him as his pupil. I fell into conversation with this young man, and found that he really
believed that the twelve clauses of the Apostles' Creed were manufactured by the apostles themselves.
He had never discovered anything to the contrary.

A still more astonishing fact came to my knowledge last year. During that discussion over Ian
McLaren's creed, in which so many people were interested last winter, Chancellor McCracken,
of the University of New York, published a letter, in which he referred to the Apostles' Creed
as  written eighteen hundred years ago. It took my breath away when I read it. I wondered,
Could the chancellor of a great University possibly be ignorant of the facts? Would he state
that which he knew was not true? I could not explain it either way. I was compelled to think,
if he was thoughtless and careless about it, that he had no business to be about a matter of
such importance. But he said the Apostles' Creed was written eighteen hundred years ago.

Now what are the facts? The apostles had nothing whatever to do with the creed, as everybody
knows to-day who chooses to look into the matter. It grew, and was four or five hundred years
in growth, one phrase in one shape held in a certain part of the Church, another phrase in
another shape held in another part of the Church, people holding nothing so sacred about it
but that they were at perfect liberty to change it and add to it and take away from it, until,
as we get it to- day, it appeared for the first time in history at about the year 500. And
yet it stands in the Church to-day claiming to be the Apostles' Creed.

And this Apostles' Creed, if it were a part of the purpose I have in mind this morning, I could
analyze, and find that it contains elements which nobody accepts to-day; and yet nobody dares
to propose touching it, such is the reverence for that which is old. So much more reverence
does the world have for that which is old than for that which is true.

If you approach a Churchman in regard to his belief in the resurrection of the body, he will
say, Of course, we do not believe in the resurrection of the body: we believe in the resurrection
of the soul. But he does not believe in the resurrection of the soul, either.

Let me make two statements in regard to this. In the first place, if he does not believe in
the resurrection of the body, he has no right to say it, because the House of Bishops, representing
the whole Church of the United states, in an authoritative pastoral letter issued within three
years, declares that fixity of interpretation is of the essence of the creeds. No man, then,
is at liberty to change the interpretation to suit himself.

And then, again, nobody, as I say, believes in the resurrection of the soul. Why? Because that
statement, with the authority of the House of Bishops that nobody has any business to change
or reinterpret, carries with it a world underneath the surface of the earth to which the dead
go down; and resurrection means coming up again from that underground world. Nobody believes
in any underground world to-day. You cannot be resurrected. That is, you cannot rise again
unless you have first gone down. It is the ascent of the soul we believe in to-day, and not
its resurrection, much less the resurrection of the body.

Now a word in regard to another of the great historic creeds.

The third one to be shaped was the Athanasian Creed. Curiously named most of these are. There
was a tradition in the Church that Athanasius, who was one of the great antagonists of the
Council of Nicaea, wrote this creed called after his name; but, as a matter of fact, the creed
was not known in the Church in the shape in which we have it now until at least four or five
hundred years after Athanasius was dead.

The Athanasian Creed dates from the eighth or ninth century; and in this for the first time
there is a clear, explicit, definite formulation of the doctrine of the Trinity. It never had
been shaped in perfection until the time of the Athanasian Creed; and this creed contains among
other things those famous damnatory clauses? which the Episcopal Church in this country, to
their credit be it said, have left out of their Prayer Book. But this Athanasian Creed is obliged
to be sung thirteen times every year in the Church of England; and you can imagine with what
grace and joy they must sing the statement that, unless a man believes every single word and
sentence of it, he shall no doubt perish everlastingly.

The Athanasian Creed, then, takes us only to the eighth or ninth century. You see, do you not,
that, instead of there having been any clear, explicit, definite statement of church beliefs
on the part of Jesus and his apostles, they are long and slow growths, and not built up on
the basis of proof or evidence, simply opinions which people came to hold and fight for and
preach, until at last they got a majority to believe in them, and they were accepted by some
council.

I wish now to ask your attention for a few moments to one or two of the modern statements of
beliefs. We are face to face here in this modern world with a very strange condition of affairs.
I wish I could see the outcome of it. Here are churches printing, publishing, scattering all
over America and Europe, statements of belief which perhaps hardly one man in ten among their
pew-holders or vestrymen believes. They will tell you they do not believe them; they are almost
angry with you if you make the statement that these are church beliefs; and at the same time
we are in the curious position of finding that the man who proposes himself as a candidate
for the ministry in any of these churches dares not question or doubt these horrible statements.
And, if it is found that he does question them after he gets into the ministry, he is in danger
of a trial for heresy.

We have had a perfect storm here in New York in one of our greatest churches over Dr. Briggs.
And what was Dr. Briggs tried for? Simply for raising the question as to whether every part
of the Old Testament was infallible. That was all. Another professor in a theological seminary
in the West was turned out of his professorship for a similar offence. An Episcopal minister,
a friend of mine in Ohio, was turned out of his church for daring to entertain some of the
modern ideas which are in the air, and which intelligent people believe everywhere. One of
the best known Episcopal ministers in this city to-day has an indictment over his head. It
has been there for eight years; and it is only by the good will of his bishop that he is tolerated.
His crime is daring to think, and to believe what all the respectable text-books of the modern
world teach.

And people in the pews are indignant if you say that their Church holds these ideas! It is
a curious state of affairs. How long is it going to last? What is to be its outcome? I do not know.

But let us look for a moment at another. Let us note one or two points in the Presbyterian
Confession of Faith.

It teaches still, with what it claims to be absolute authority, that God, before the foundation
of the world, selected just the precise number of people that he was going to save; that he
did this, not in view of the fact that they were going to be good people at all, but arbitrarily
of his own will, not to be touched or changed by anything in their character or conduct. All
the rest he is to "pass by "; and they are to go to everlasting woe. The elect are very few:
those who are passed by are the many. And why does he do this? Just think for a moment. There
is no such colossal egotism, such extreme of selfishness, in all the world as that attributed
to God in this Confession of Faith. The one thing he lives for, cares for, thinks of, labors
after, is what? His own glory. He saves a few people to illustrate the glory of his grace and
mercy. He damns all the rest purely to illustrate the glory of some monstrous thing called
his justice.

This kind of doctrine we are expected to believe to-day.

And worse yet, if anything can be worse. I wonder how many loving, tender mothers in all these
churches know it, how many know that the little babe which they clasp to their bosoms with
such infinite tenderness and love, which they think of as a gift from the good God, right out
of heaven, is an enemy of God, is under the curse and wrath of God? How many of you know that
your creed teaches that God hates this blessed little babe, and that, if he does not happen
to be one of the elect, he must suffer torment in darkness forever and ever?

That is taught in your confession of faith, which I have right here at my hand. The only mitigation
of it that I have ever heard of on the part of consistent believers is the saying of Michael
Wigglesworth, a famous alleged poet of the Puritan time in New England, when he states explicitly
that none of these non-elect children can be saved, but since they are infants, and not such
bad sinners as the grown up ones, their punishment shall be mitigated by their having the easiest
room in hell.

Friends, you smile at this. This poem of Michael Wigglesworth's was a household treasure in
New England for a hundred years. No end of editions was sold. It was earnestly, verily believed;
and the doctrine is still taught every time that a new edition of the Presbyterian Confession
of Faith? is issued in this country or in Europe.

Shall we escape these things by going into other churches? Some of them, yes; but the essentials
are there in all of them.

Take for one moment the Episcopal Prayer Book. I have had friends in the old churches who have
become Episcopalians for no reason that I could imagine, except that it seemed to them they
were escaping some of the sharpest corners of the old beliefs; and yet, if you will read carefully
the form of service for the baptism of infants in the Episcopal Prayer Book as held to-day
and in constant use in every Episcopal Church in this country and England and throughout Europe,
you will find that it is taught there in the plainest and most forcible way that the unbaptized
infant is a child of wrath, is under the dominion of the devil, is destined to everlasting
death, and is regenerated only by having a little water placed on its forehead and by a priest
saying over him certain wonderful words.

Can you believe, friends, for one moment that a little child this minute belongs to the devil,
is under his dominion, hated of God, doomed to eternal death, then the priest puts his fingers
in some water, touches its forehead, and says, "I baptize thee," etc., and the child, after
this is said, five minutes later, God loves, has taken to his arms as one of his own little
children, and is going to receive him to eternal felicity forever?

Can we believe such things to-day? Do people believe them? If they do not, are they sincere
in saying they do, in supporting the institutions that proclaim to the world every hour of
every day of every week of every month of every year that they do believe them?

I have now said all I am going to about these creeds in any special way. I wish now to discuss
the general situation for a little.

I have heretofore said, I wish to say it again, to make it perfectly plain and emphasize it,
that all these old Creeds are based on the supposed ruin of the race. They have come into existence
for the express purpose of saving as many souls as possible from this ruin. They never would
have been heard of but for the belief in this ruin. And yet to-day there is not a intelligent
man in Christendom that does not know that the doctrine of man's fall and ruin is not only
doubtful, but demonstrably untrue. It is not a matter of question: it is settled; and yet these
churches go on just as though nothing had happened.

Is it sincere? Is it quite honest? Is this the way you use language in Wall Street, in your
banks and your stores? Is this the way you maintain your credit as business men?

Oh, let us purge these statements of outgrown crudities, cruelties, falsities, blasphemies,
infamies! Let us dare to believe that the light of God to-day is holier than the mistakes about
Him made by those who walked in darkness.

Now let me suggest to you. Every one of these creeds sprang out of a theory of the universe
that nobody any longer holds. They are Ptolemaic in their origin, not Copernican. They sprang
out of a time when it was believed that this was a little tiny world, and God was outside of
it, governing it by the arbitrary imposition of his law. Every one of these creeds is fitted
to that theory of things; and that theory of things has passed away absolutely and forever.

Consider for just a moment. Why should we pay such extravagant deference to the opinions of
men who lived in the dark ages, of the old Church Fathers, of Athanasius, of Arius, of Justin
Martyr, of Origen, of Tertullian? Why, friends, just think for a moment. There was hardly a
single point connected with this world that they knew anything about. How did it happen that
the whole modern world should get on its knees in their presence, as though they knew everything
about the Infinite, when they knew next to nothing about the finite? Is there any proof that
they knew anything about it? Not one single particle.

Think for a minute. We know to-day unspeakably more about the origin of the Bible, how it grew,
how it came into its present shape, than any man from the first century until a hundred years
ago could by any possibility know. We know a good deal more than Paul, though he was one of
the writers, unspeakably more. He had no means of knowing. We have sifted every particle of
evidence, every source of knowledge that the world has to show. We know unspeakably more about
this universe than any man of the olden time had any way of knowing. He had no way of knowing
anything.

I said something recently about the origin and nature of man. Very little was known about this
until within the present century. We know something about how religions grow. We have traced
them, studied them, not only Christianity and Judaism, but all the religions of the world back
to their origin, and seen them coming into shape. We can judge something about them to-day.
You want the antiquity of the world? People are bowing in the presence of what they suppose
to be the antiquity, that is, the hoary-headed wisdom, of the world. Why, friends, as you go
back, you are not going back to the old age of the world: you are going back to its childhood.
The world was never so old as it is this morning. Humanity was never so old, never had such
accumulated experience, such accumulated knowledge, as it has this morning.

If you want the results of the world's hoary-headed antiquity, its wisdom, its accumulated
experience, its knowledge, then get the very latest results of the very finest modern investigations;
for that is where you will find them.

Then let us note in just a word some other reasons why we cannot hold these old creeds. The
statements that are made about God are horrible. The statements that are made in regard to
the method by which God is going to deal with his creatures are horrible; and then what they
tell us in regard to the outcome of human history is pessimistic and hopeless in the extreme.

Where do they claim to get the authority for these old beliefs? They tell us they find them
on the one hand in the Bible. What do you find in the Bible? You find almost anything you look
for. Is it not perfectly natural you should? The Bible was written by ever so many different
writers during a period covering nearly a thousand years. Would you expect to find the same
ideas throughout it? The book of Ecclesiastes teaches that man dies like a dog. The Bible upholds
polygamy, slavery, cruelty of almost every kind. You might prove almost any kind of immorality
from the Bible if you wished to.

But take the highest and noblest conception of the Bible you can have. I was talking with an
eminent and widely known clergyman of the Presbyterian Church during the present year; and
we were speaking about the Bible. I tell you this to show how modern ideas are permeating the
thoughts of men. He said: I confess that, if God had ever given the world an infallible book,
I should be utterly appalled and disheartened; because it is perfectly clear that we have no
such book now. And, if God ever gave us such a book, then he has lost control of his universe,
and was not able to keep us in possession of it.

Here are Quakers and Methodists proving their beliefs, the Baptists proving theirs, the Episcopalians
proving theirs, the Presbyterians theirs, all of them different in some particular, and each
of them getting their proof from the Bible.

Let us remember that the Bible is simply a great body of national literature, and that you
can prove anything out of it. Then remember that it has been proved over and over again by
the facts of the handwriting of God himself to be mistaken and wrong in any number of directions.

God is writing his own book in the heavens, in the earth, in the human heart; and we are reading
the story there. No creed, then, particularly if it be infamous and unjust and horrible, can
prove itself to us so that we are bound to accept it to-day on the basis of an appeal to any
book. But the Catholic Church claims not only that the book is infallible, but that their church
tradition is infallible too. Is it? How can a church prove that its declarations are infallible?
Is there any way of proving it? Think for a moment. It can make the claim: the only conceivable
way of proving it is by never making a mistake. Try the Catholic Church by that test. It has
committed itself over and over and over again to things which have been demonstrated beyond
question to be mistakes. It has made grave mistakes, not only as to fact, but as to morals as well.

On what, then, shall we base any one of these "infallible" creeds? There is no basis for any
such claim; and thank God there is not. For now we are free to study, here, there, everywhere;
to read God's word in the stars; to read it in the rocks; to read it in the remains of old-time
civilizations; to read it in the development of education, the arts, science; to read it in
the light of the love we have for each other, the love for our children, and the growing philanthropy
and widening benevolence of mankind.

We have thus perfect freedom to listen when God speaks, to see when he holds a leaf of his
ever-growing book for our inspection, and to believe concerning him the grandest and noblest
and finest things that the mind can dream or the heart can love.

WHY HAVE UNITARIANS NO CREED?

FOR a Scripture suggestion touching the principle involved in my subject, I refer you to the
words found in the fifth chapter of the Gospel according to Matthew, the forty-third and the
forty-fourth verses, "Ye have heard that it hath been said; but I say unto you." I take these
phrases simply as containing the principle to which I wish to call your earnest attention at
the outset.

Jesus here recognizes the fact that the religious beliefs of one age are not necessarily adequate
to a succeeding age. So he says over and over in this chapter, Ye have heard that it hath been
said by the fathers, by the teachers, the religious leaders in old times, so and so: but I
say unto you something else, something in advance, something beyond.

If any one chooses to say that Jesus was infallible, inspired, and therefore had a right to
modify the teachings of the fathers, still this does not change the principle at all. In any
case he recognized the fact that the beliefs of the old time might not be sufficient to the
new time.

And, even if any one should take the position that Jesus was the second person in the Trinity,
that he was the one who revealed the old-time truth, and also revealed the new, still the principle
is not changed: it is conceded, whatever way we look at it. For, even if he were God, he is
represented as giving the people in the time of Moses, the time of David, certain precepts,
certain things to believe, certain things to do, and then, recognizing at a later time that
they were not adequate, changing those precepts, and giving them something larger, broader,
deeper, to accept and to practise.

Because this principle is here involved, I have taken these words as my Scripture point of
departure.

Now to come to the question as to why Unitarians have no creed. Of course, the answer, though
it sounds like an Hibernicism, is to say that they do have a creed. Not a creed in the sense
in which some of the older churches use the word. If by creed you mean a written or published
statement of belief, one that is supposed to be fixed and final, one that is a test of religious
fellowship, which is placed at the door of the church so that no one not accepting it is able
to enter, why, then, we have no creed. But, in the broader sense of the word, it means belief;
and Unitarians believe quite as much, and, in my judgment, things far nobler and grander, than
those which have been believed in the past.

We are ready, if any one wishes it, to write out our creed. We are perfectly willing that it
should be printed. We can put it into twelve clauses, like the Apostles' Creed; we can make
thirty-nine clauses or articles, like the Creed of the Anglican Church; we can arrange it any
way that is satisfactory to the questioner. Only we will not promise to believe all of it to-morrow;
we will not say that we will never learn anything new; we will not make it a test of fellowship;
we will admit not only to our meeting-house, but to our church organization, if they wish to
come, people who do not believe all the articles of the creed that we shall write. Perhaps
we will admit people who do not believe any of it; for our conception of a church is not the
old conception.

What was that? That it was a sort of ark in which the saved were taken, to be carried over
the stormy sea of this life and into the haven of eternal felicity beyond. As opposed to that,
our conception of the church is that it is a school, it is a place where souls are to be trained,
to be educated; and so we would as soon refuse to admit an ignorant pupil to a school as to
refuse to admit a person on account of his belief to our church. We welcome all who wish to
come and learn; and if, after they have studied with us for a year, they do not then accept
all the points which some of us believe, and hold to be very important, we do not turn them
out even on that account.

Unitarians, then, do have a creed, only it is not fixed, it is not final, and it is not the
condition of religious fellowship.

Now I wish to give you some of the reasons, as they lie in my mind, for the attitude which
we hold in regard to this matter.

I do not believe in having a fixed and final statement of belief which we are not at liberty
to criticise or question or change. Why? Because I love the truth, because I am anxious to
find the truth, because I wish to be perfectly free to seek for the truth.

Our first reason, then, is for the sake of the truth.

Now let me present this to you under three or four minor heads. The universe is infinite, God
is infinite, truth is infinite. If, then, on the background of the infinite you draw a circle,
no matter how large it may be, no matter how wide its diameter, do you not see that you necessarily
shut out more than you shut in? Do you not see that you limit the range of thought, set bounds
to investigation, and that you pledge yourselves beforehand that the larger part of truth,
of God, of the universe, you will never study, you will never investigate?

There is another point bearing on this matter. If a man pledges himself to accept and abide
by a fixed and final creed, he does it either for a reason or without a reason. If he does
it without a reason, then there is, of course, no reason why we should follow his example.
If he has a reason, then two things: either that reason is adequate, sound, conclusive, or
it is not. If it is not adequate, then we ought to study and criticise and find that out, and
be free to discover some reason that is adequate. If the reason for his holding the creed is
an adequate one, then, certainly, no harm can be done by investigation of it, by asking questions.

If the men who hold these old creeds and defend them can give in the court of reason a perfectly
good account of themselves, if they can bring satisfactory credentials, then all our questioning,
all our criticism, all our investigation, cannot possibly do the creeds any harm. It will only
mean that we shall end by being convinced ourselves, and shall accept the creeds freely and
rationally.

It has always seemed to me a very strange attitude of mind for a man to feel perfectly convinced
that a certain position is sound and true, and to be angry when anybody asks a question about
it. If there are good reasons for holding it, instead of calling names, why not show us the
reasons? He who is afraid to have his opinions questioned, he who is angry when you ask him
for evidence, to give a reason for the position that he holds, shows that he is not at all
certain of it. He admits by implication that it is weak. He shows an attitude of infidelity
instead of an attitude of faith, of trust.

There is no position which I hold to-day that I consider so sacred that people are not at liberty
to ask any questions about it they please; and, if they do not see a good reason for accepting
it, I am certainly not going to be angry with them for declining to accept. The attitude of
truth is that of welcome to all inquiry. It rejoices in daylight, it does not care to be protected
from investigation.

Then there is another reason still, another point to be made in regard to this matter. People
are not very likely to find the truth if they are frightened, if they are warned off, if they
are told that this or that or another thing is too sacred to be investigated. I have known
people over and over again in my past experience who long wished they might be free to accept
some grander, nobler, more helpful view of truth, and yet have been trained and taught so long
that it was wicked to doubt, that it was wicked to ask questions, that they did not dare to
open their minds freely to the incoming of any grander hope.

If you tell people that they may study just as widely as they please, but, when they get through,
they must come back and settle down within the limits of certain pre-determined opinions, what
is the use of their wider excursion? And, if you tell them that, unless they accept these final
conclusions, God is going to be angry with them, they are going to injure their own immortal
souls, they are threatening the welfare of the people on every hand whom they influence, how
can you expect them to study and come to conclusions which are entitled to the respect of thoughtful
people?

I venture the truth of the statement that, if you should inquire over this country to-day,
you would find that the large majority of people who have been trained in the old faith are
in an attitude of fear towards modern thought. Thousands of them would come to us to-day if
they were not kept back by this inherited and ingrained fear as to the danger of asking questions.

Do I not remember my own experience of three years' agonizing battle over the great problems
that were involved in these questions, afraid that I was being tempted of the devil, afraid
that I was risking the salvation of my soul, afraid that I might be endangering other people
whom I might influence, never free to study the Bible, to study religious questions as I would
study any other matter on the face of the earth on account of being haunted by this terrible dread?

And, then, there is one other point. I must touch on these very briefly. The acceptance of
these creeds on the part of those who do hold to them does not, after all, prevent the growth
of modern thought. It does hinder it, so far as they are concerned; but the point I wish to
make is this, that these creeds do not answer the purpose for which they were constructed.
They are supposed to be fixed and final statements of divine truth, which are not to be questioned
and not to be changed.

Dr. Richard S. Storrs, of Brooklyn, the famous Congregational minister, said a few years ago
that the idea of progress in theology was absurd, because the truth had once for all been given
to the saints in the past, and there was no possibility of progress, because progress implied
change. And yet, in spite of the effort that has been made to keep the faith of the world as
it was in the past, the change is coming, the change does come every day; and it puts the people
who are trying to prevent the change coming in an attitude of what shall I say I do not wish
to make a charge against my brethren, it puts them in a very curious attitude indeed towards
the truth. They must not accept a new idea if it conflicts with the old creed, however much
they may be convinced it is true. If they do accept it, then what? They must either leave the
Church or they must keep still about it, and remain in an attitude of appearing to believe
what they really do not believe. Or else they must do violence to the creed, reinterpreting
it in such a way as to make it to them what the framers of it had never dreamed of.

Do you not see the danger that there is here of a person's disingenuous attitude towards the
truth, danger to the moral fibre, danger to the progress of man? Take as a hint of it the way
the Bible has been treated. People have said that the Bible was absolutely infallible: they
have taken that as a foregone conclusion; and then, when they found out beyond question that
the world was not created in six days, what have they done? Frankly accepted the truth? No,
they have tried to twist the Bible into meaning something different from what it plainly says.
It expressly says days, bounded by morning and evening; but no, it must mean long periods of
time. Why? Because science and the Bible must somehow be reconciled, no matter if the Bible
is wrenched and twisted from its real meaning.

And so with regard to the creeds. The creeds say that Christ descended into hell; that is,
the underworld. People come to know that there is no underworld; and, instead of frankly admitting
that that statement in the creed is not correct, they must torture it out of its meaning, and
make it stand for something that the framers of it had never heard of. I think it would greatly
astonish the writers of the Bible and the Church Fathers if they could wake up to-day, and
find out that they meant something when they wrote those things which had never occurred to
them at the time.

Is this quite honest? Is it wise for us to put ourselves in this attitude?

I wish to speak a little further in this matter as to not preventing the coming in of modern
thought, and to take one illustration. Look at Andover Seminary to-day. The Andover Creed was
arranged for the express purpose of keeping fixed and unchangeable the belief of the Church..
Its founders declared that to be their purpose. They were going to establish the statement
of belief, so that it should not be open to this modern criticism, which had resulted in the
birth of Unitarianism in New England; and, in order to make perfectly certain of it, they said
that the professors who came there to teach the creed must not only be sound when they were
settled, but they must be re-examined every five years. This was to prevent their changing
their minds during the five years and remaining on there, teaching some false doctrine while
the overseers and managers were not aware of it. So every five years the professors and teachers
of Andover have to reaffirm solemnly their belief in the old creed.

It is not for me to make charges against them; but it is for me to make the statement that
so suspicious have the overseers and managers come to be of some of the professors in the seminary
that they have been tried more than once for heresy; and everybody knows that the leading professors
there to-day do not believe the creed in the sense in which it was framed.

And, to illustrate how this is looked upon by some of the students, let me tell you this. My
brother was a graduate of Andover; and not long ago he said to me that when the time came around
for the professors to reaffirm their allegiance to the creed, one of the other students came
into his room one day, and said, "Savage, let's go up and see the professors perjure themselves."

This was the attitude of mind of one of the students. This is the way he looked at it. I am
not responsible for his opinion; but is it quite wise, is it best for the truth, is it for
the interests of religion, to have theological students in this state of mind towards their
professor?

Modern thought does come into the minds of men: they cannot escape it. What does it mean? It
means simply a new, higher, grander revelation of God. Is it wise for us to put ourselves into
such a position that it shall seem criminal and evil for us to accept it? If we pledge ourselves
not to learn the things we can know, then we stunt ourselves intellectually. If, after we have
pledged ourselves, we accept these things and remain as we are, I leave somebody else to characterize
such action, action which, in my judgment, and so far as my observation goes, is not at all
uncommon.

We then propose to hold ourselves free so far as a fixed and final creed is concerned, because
we wish to be able to study, to find and accept the truth. There is another reason. For the
sake of God, because we wish to find and come into sympathy with him, and love him and serve
him, we refuse to be bound by the thoughts of the past.

What do we mean by coming into a knowledge of God? Let me illustrate a moment by the relation
which we may sustain to another man. You do not necessarily come close to a man because you
touch his elbow on the street. The people who lived in Shakspere's London might not have been
so near to Shakspere as is Mr. Furness, the great Shakspere critic to- day, or Mr. Rolfe, of
Cambridge.

Physical proximity does not bring us close to a person. We may be near to a friend who is half-way
round the world: there may be sympathetic heart-beats that shall make us conscious of his presence
night and day. We may be close alongside of a person, but alienated from him, misunderstanding
him, and really farther away from him than the diameter of the solar system. If, then, we wish
to get near to God, and to know him, we must become like him. There must be love, tenderness,
unselfishness. We must have the divine characteristics and qualities; and then we shall feel
his presence, know and be near him.

People may find God, and still have very wrong theories about him; just as a farmer may raise
a good crop without understanding much about theories of sunshine or of soil. But the man who
does understand about them will be more likely to raise a good crop, because he goes about
it intelligently; while the other simply blunders into it. So, if we have right thoughts about
God, it is easier for us to get into sympathy with him. If we think about him as noble and
sweet and grand and true and loving, we shall be more likely to respond to these qualities
that call out the best and the finest feelings in ourselves.

I do not say that it is absolutely necessary to have correct theories of God. There have been
good men in all ages, there have been noble women in all ages, in all religions, in all the
different sects of Christendom. There are lovely characters among the agnostics. I have known
sweet and true and fine people who thought themselves atheists. A man may be grand in spite
of his theological opinions one way or the other. He may have a horrible picture of God set
forth in his creed, and carry a loving and tender one in his heart. So he may be better than
the God of his creed. All this is true; but, if we have, I say, right thoughts about him, high
and fine ideals, we are more likely to come into close touch and sympathy with him.

And, then, and here is a point I wish to emphasize and make perfectly clear, this arbitrary
assumption of infallibility cultivates qualities and characteristics which are un and anti-divine.

Let us see what Jesus had to say about this. The people of his time who represented more than
any others this infallibility idea were the Pharisees. They felt perfectly sure that they were
right. They felt perfectly certain that they were the chosen favorites of God. There was on
their part, then, growing out of this conception of the infallibility of their position, the
conceit of being the chosen and special favorites of the Almighty. They looked with contempt,
not only upon the Gentiles, who were outside of the peculiarly chosen people, but upon the
publicans, upon all of their own nation who were not Pharisees, and who were not scrupulously
exact concerning the things which they held to be so important.

What did Jesus think and say about them? You remember the parable of the Pharisee and the publican.
Jesus said that this poor sinning publican, who smote upon his breast, and said, "God be merciful
to me a sinner," was the one that God looked upon with favor, not the Pharisee, who thanked
God that he was not as the other people were. And, if there is any class in the New Testament
that Jesus scathes and withers with the hot lightning of his scorn and his wrath, it is these
infallible people, who are perfectly right in their ideas, and who look with contempt upon
people who are outside of the pale of their own inherited infallible creeds and opinions.

We believe, then, that the people who are free to study the splendors of God in the universe,
in human history, in human life, and free to accept all new and higher and finer ideas, are
more likely to find God, and come into sympathetic and tender relations with him, than those
who are bound to opinions by the supposed fixed and revealed truths of the past.

We reject, then, these old-time creeds for another reason, for the sake of man. A long vista
of thought and illustration stretches out before me as I pronounce these words; but I can only
touch upon a point here or there.

One of the most disastrous things that have happened in the history of the past and it has
happened over and over again is this blocking and hindering of human advance, until by and
by the tide, the growing current, becomes too strong to be held back any more; and it has swept
away all barriers and devastated society, politically, socially, religiously, morally, and
in every other way.

And why? Simply because the natural flow of human thought, the natural growth of human opinion,
has been hindered artificially by the assumption of an infallibility on the part of those who
have tried to keep the world from growth.

Suppose you teach men that certain theological opinions are identical with religion, until
they believe it. The time comes when they cannot hold those opinions any more, and they break
away; and they give up religion, and perhaps the sanctities of life, which they are accustomed
to associate with religion.

Take the time of the French Revolution. People went mad. They were opposed not only to the
State: they were opposed to the Church. They tried to abolish God, they tried to abolish the
Ten Commandments; they tried to abolish everything that had been so long established and associated
with the old regime.

Were the people really enemies of God? Were they enemies of religion? Were they enemies of
truth? No: it was a caricature of God that they were fighting, it was a caricature of religion
that they were opposed to. When Voltaire declared that the Church was infamous, it was not
religion that he wished to overthrow: it was this tyranny that had been associated with the
dominance of the Church for so many ages.

This is the result in one direction of attempting to hold back the natural growth and progress
of the world. If you read the history of the Church for the last fifteen hundred years until
within a century or two, and by the Church I mean that organization that has claimed to speak
infallibly for God, you will find that it has been associated with almost everything that has
hindered the growth of the world. I cannot go into details to illustrate it. It has interfered
with the world's education. There is only one nation in Europe to-day where education has not
been wrenched out of the hands of the priesthood in the interests of man, and that even by
Catholics themselves; and that country is Spain. It pronounced its ban on the study of the
universe under the name of science. It made it a sin for Galileo to discover the moons of Jupiter.
And Catholic and Protestant infallibility alike denounced Newton, one of the noblest men and
the grandest scientists that the world has ever seen, because in proclaiming the law of gravity,
they said, he was taking the universe out of the hands of God and establishing practical atheism.

So almost everything that has made the education, the political, the industrial, the social
growth of the world, this infallibility idea has stood square in the way of, and done its best
to hinder. Take, for example, an illustration. When chloroform was discovered, the Church in
Scotland opposed its use in cases of childbirth, because it said it was a wicked interference
with the judgment God pronounced on Eve after the fall.

So, in almost every direction, whatever has been for the benefit of the world has been opposed
in the interests of old-time ideas, until the whole thing culminated at last in this: Here
is this nineteenth century of ours, which has done more for the advancement of man than the
preceding fifteen centuries all put together. Political liberty, religious liberty, universal
education, the enfranchisement and elevation of women, the abolition of slavery, temperance,
almost everything has been achieved, until the world, the face of it, has been transformed.
And yet Pope Pius IX., in an encyclical which he issued a little while before his death, pronounced,
ex-cathedra and infallibly, the opinion that this whole modern society was godless. And yet,
as I said, this godless modern world has done more for man and for the glory of God than the
fifteen hundred years of church dominance that preceded it.

For the sake of man, then, that intellectually, politically, socially, industrially, every
other way, he may be free to grow, to expand, to adopt all the new ideas that promise higher
help, hope, and freedom, for the sake of man, we refuse to be bound by the inherited and fixed
opinions of the past.

Now two or three points I wish to speak of briefly, as I near the close.

We are charged sometimes, because we have no creed, with having no bond of union whatever.
As I said a few Sundays ago, they say that we are all at loose ends because we are not fixed
and bound by a definite creed.

What is God's method of keeping a system like this solar one of ours together? Does he fence
it in? Does he exert any pressure from outside? Or does he rather place at the centre a luminous
and attractive body, capable of holding all the swinging and singing members of the system
in their orbits, as they play around this great source of life and of light? God's method is
the method of illumination and attraction. That is the method which we have adopted. Instead
of fencing men in and telling them to climb over that fence at their peril, we have placed
a great, luminous, attractive truth at the centre, the pursuit of truth, the love of truth,
the search for God, the desire to benefit and help on mankind. And we trust to the power of
these great central truths to attract and keep in their orbits all the free activities of the
thousands of minds and hearts that make up our organization.

Then there is one more point. Suppose we wanted an infallible creed; suppose it was ever so
important; suppose the experience of the world had proved that it was very desirable indeed
that we should have one. What are we going to do about it? I suppose that men in other departments
of life than the ecclesiastical would like an infallible guide. Men engaged in business would
like an infallible handbook that would point them the way to success. The gold hunters would
like an infallible guide to the richest ores. Navigators on the sea would like infallible methods
of manning and sailing their ships. The farmer would like to know that he was following an
infallible method to success. It would be very desirable in many respects; it would save us
no end of trouble.

But it is admitted that in these other departments of life, whether we want infallible guides
or not, we do not have them. And I think, if you will look at the matter a little deeply and
carefully, you will become persuaded that it would not be the best for us if we could. Men
not only wish to gain certain ends, but, if they are wise, they wish more than that, to cultivate
and develop and unfold themselves, which they can only do by study, by mistakes, by correcting
mistakes, by finding out through experience what is true and what is false. In this process
of study and experience they find themselves, something infinitely more important than any
external fact or success which they may discover or achieve.

So I believe that a similar thing is true in the religious life. It might be a great saving
of trouble if we were sure we had an infallible guide. I am inclined to think that a great
many persons who go into the Roman Catholic Church, in this modern time, go there because they
are tired of thinking, and wish to shift the responsibility of it on to some one else.

It is tiresome, it is hard work. Sometimes we would like to escape it: we would like infallible
guides. But I have studied the world with all the care that I could; and I have never been
able to find the materials out of which I could construct an infallible guide, if I wanted
it ever so much.

Whether it is important or not to have infallible teaching in the theological realm, there
is no such thing as infallibility that is accessible to us; and I, for one, do not believe
that it would be best for us if there were. God is treating us more wisely and kindly than,
if we were able, we would treat ourselves; because it is not the discovery of this or that
particular fact or truth that is so important as is the development of our own intellectual
and moral and spiritual natures in the search for truth.

Lessing said a very wise thing when he declared that, if God should offer him the perfect truth
in one hand and the privilege of seeking for it in the other, he should accept the privilege
of search as the nobler and more valuable gift, because, in this seeking, we develop ourselves,
we cultivate the Divine, and work our natures over into the likeness of God.

And now at the end I wish simply to say that God has given us the better thing in letting us
freely and earnestly and simply investigate and look after the truth, cultivating ourselves
in the process, and being wrought over ever more and more into the likeness of the divine.

And I wish also to say, for the comfort of those who may think that this lack of infallible
guides is a serious matter, it may astonish you to have me say it, that there is not a single
matter of any practical importance in our moral and religious life concerning which there is
any doubt whatsoever. If anybody tells you that he is not living a religious life or not living
a moral life, for the lack of light and guidance, do not believe him.

What are the things that are in question? What are the things of which we are sure? Take, for
example, the matter of Biblical criticism, as to who wrote the book of Chronicles, as to whether
Deuteronomy was written by Moses or compiled in the time of King Josiah. Are there any great
spiritual problems waiting for those questions to be settled? Do you need to have that matter
made clear before you know whether you ought to be an honest man in your business, whether
you ought to judge charitably of a friend who has gone astray, whether you ought to be helpful
towards your neighbors, whether you ought to be kind to your wife, and whether you ought to
lovingly train and cultivate your children?

Take another of the great questions, as to the authorship of the Gospel of John. I shall be
immensely interested in the settlement of that if the time ever comes when it is settled; but
it would be a purely critical interest that I should have. I am not going to wait until that
is settled before I lead a religious life. I am not going to let that stand in the way of my
helping on the progress of the world.

I tell you, friends, that these matters that are in doubt, that need an infallibility to settle
them, are not the practical matters at all. We look off into the vast universe around us, and
question about God. Is he personal? Can we have the old ideas about him? One thing is settled:
we know we are the product of and in the presence of an Eternal Order, and that knowing and
keeping the laws of the universe mean life and happiness, but the opposite means death. That
is the practical part of it.

We know that the Power that is in this universe is making gradually through the ages for righteousness;
and we know that the righteous and helpful life is the only manly life for us to lead, for
our own sake, for the sake of those we can touch and influence.

Are we going to wait for criticism to settle metaphysical problems before we do anything about
these great practical matters?

Whatever your theory about Jesus may be, you can at least be like him, and wait; and, when
you see him, you will love him, and know the truth about him, if you cannot before.

Matthew Arnold, an agnostic, has put into two or three lines, which I wish to read now at the
end, what might well be the creed of the person who doubts so much that he thinks nothing is
settled. If you cannot say any more than this, here is all that is absolutely necessary to
the very noblest life:

"Hath man no second life? Pitch this one high. Sits there no Judge in heaven our sin to see?
More strictly, then, the inward judge obey. Was Christ a man like us? Ah I let us try If we,
then, too, can be such men as he."

THE REAL SIGNIFICANCE OF THE PRESENT RELIGIOUS DISCUSSION.

SCIENCE tells us that the law of growth is embodied in the phrase, "the struggle for life and
the survival of the fittest." As we look beneath the surface in any department of human endeavor,
analyze things a little carefully, we discover that this contest is going on. We know that
it is not confined to the lower forms of life or the order of the inanimate world. It is a
universal law. We are not always conscious of it; but, when we do think and study, we discover
it as an unescapable fact.

In the religious world, for example, between the different thoughts and theories which are
held among men as solutions of the problems of life we find this contest going on. Here, again,
it is not always noticed; but in the mind of any man who thinks, who reads, who reflects, this
process is apparent. This view is considered, another view mentioned by somebody else is set
over against it, and the claims of the two theories are brought up for judgment. And so there
goes on perpetually this debate. Now and again it comes to the surface, and attracts popular
attention. We have been in the midst of an experience of this kind for the last two or three
weeks here in New York City.

But the thing I want you to note is -- and that is the great lesson I have in mind this morning
that all of this superficial discussion of one point or another is only an indication of a
larger, deeper contest. When, for example, men are debating as to the infallibility or inerrancy
of the Old Testament, as to the story of the creation as told in Genesis, as to the nature
and work of Jesus, as to the future destiny of the race, when they are discussing any one of
these particular problems, they are dealing with matters that are really superficial. Underneath
these there is a larger problem; and to this problem and its probable issues I wish to call
your attention this morning.

There are two great world theories, complete each in itself, both of them thinkable, mutually
exclusive, one of which only can be true, and one of which must finally become dominant in
the educated and free thought of the world. These two theories I wish to place face to face
before you this morning, call your attention to some of their special features and note the
claims they have on our acceptance.

Before doing this, however, I wish you to note that there are indications of a dual tendency
on the part of the human mind which has not been manifested in the development of these two
theories alone, but which has had illustrations in other directions and in other times.

In the early traditions of Greece and Rome you find two tendencies on the part of the mind
of man. There was, first, an old-time tradition which placed the Golden Age of humanity away
back in the past. The people dreamed of a time when Saturn, the father of gods and men, lived
on the earth, and governed directly his children and his people. In that happy time there was
no disease, no pain, no poverty. There were no class distinctions. There were no wars. The
evil of the world was unknown. That was the Golden Age which a certain set of thinkers then
placed far back in the past. They told how that age was succeeded by a bronze age, a poorer
condition of affairs, how the gods left the earth, and ill contentions and evils of every kind
began to afflict the world. This was succeeded by the age of brass, that by the age of iron;
and so the poor old world was supposed to be getting worse and worse, lower and lower, from
one epoch of time to another.

But also among these same people there were another set of traditions, illustrated sufficiently
for our purpose by the story of Prometheus. According to this the first age of humanity was
its worst and poorest and lowest age. The people lived in abject poverty and misery. They were
even neglected on the part of the gods, who did not seem to care for them, but treated them
with contempt. Prometheus is represented as pitying their evil estate, caring more for them
than the gods did; and so he steals the celestial fire, and comes down to the world and presents
it to men, and so helps them to begin civilization, a period of prosperity and progress. For
this he is punished by the gods.

The point I wish you to note is that even among the Greeks and the Romans there were two types
of mind, one of which placed the Golden Age in the past, and the other of which placed it in
the future as the goal of man's endeavor and growth.

A precisely similar thing we find in the Old Testament, so that these two types of mind appear
among the Hebrews. In one of these we find again the Golden Age, the perfect condition of things,
placed at the beginning. There was a garden, and man and woman were perfect in it. There was
no labor, no toil, no pain, no sorrow, no fear, no trouble of any kind. But that was followed
by sin, evil, entering the world, by their being driven out; and so the world has again been
going from bad to worse, as the ages have passed by.

On the other hand, among the Hebrews, as illustrated in the writings of the great prophets,
the master minds of the Hebrew race, there is the opposite belief manifested. There is no fall
of man, no perfect condition of things, no Golden Age at the beginning, in the prophets. There
is none in the teaching of Jesus. Rather do they look forward with kindling eye and beating
heart to some grander thing that is to be.

Here is this dual tradition, then, in the world, in different parts of the world, this dual
way of looking at the problem of life.

Now I wish to place before you the two great contrasted theories of the universe. In presenting
that which has been dominant for the last two or three thousand years, two thousand, perhaps,
speaking roughly, I am quite well aware that I shall have to seem to tell you what you perfectly
well know, what I have said on other occasions; but it is necessary for me to run over it,
and I will do so as briefly as I can, setting it before you in outline as a whole, so that
you may see it in contrast with the other theory which I shall then endeavor to set forth also
as a whole.

According to that theory of the world, then, which lies at the foundation, the old-time and
still generally accepted theory of Christendom, the world was created in the year 4004 B.C.
It was created in a week's time. This was the general teaching until thinkers were compelled
to accept another theory by the advances of modern investigation. The world was created inside
of a week. God got through, pronounced it good, and rested. Then in a short period of time
we do not know how long evil entered this world which God had pronounced perfect. Satan, a
real being, the leader of the hosts of the fallen angels, the traditional enemy of God, who
had fought him even in his own heaven and been cast out, invades this fair earth. He seduces
our first parents, gets them to commit a sin against God which makes them his enemies, turns
them into rebels against his just and holy government. The world, then, is fallen. Now from
that day to this the one effort on the part of God, according to this theory, has been to deliver
the world from this lost condition. Jonathan Edwards, for example, published a book called
"The History of Redemption." He conceived the entire history of the world under that title,
because the history of the world, according to this theory, has been the history of the effort
of God to deliver man from the effects of the fall.

Now let us note the story as it proceeds a little further. The world exists for I think I have
a date here which may interest you 1,656 years, God meantime doing everything he could, by
sending angels and special messengers and teaching the people; and he had accomplished so little
that the world was in such a condition that he was compelled to drown it. So came the flood.
After that, he chooses one family, one little family and the descendants of that family, one
little people, and bends all his energies to the education and training of that people,-- a
small people inhabiting a country on the eastern coast of the Mediterranean Sea just about
as large as the State of Massachusetts.

For more than two thousand years he devotes himself to the training of this people. How does
he succeed here? He sends his messengers again, his angels, his prophets, one after another.
He inspires a certain number of men to write a book to deliver his will to the people, fallen
into such condition that they are incapable of discovering the truth for themselves. But, after
all his efforts, they are so far from the truth that, when the second person of the Trinity
appears, they have nothing to do with him except to put him to death. After that, God sends
the third person of the Trinity, the Holy Spirit, to organize his Church, spread his truth,
convert men, bring them into the Church, and so fit them to be saved. And, after two thousand
years of that kind of effort, what is the result? They tell us that not more than a third part
of the inhabitants of the world have heard anything about it, that the majority of those who
have heard about it reject it. Mr. Moody told us last year that in this country, which we love
to think of as the most favored and highly civilized and intelligent country in the world,
out of seventy millions of inhabitants, not more than thirty millions ever see the inside of
any kind of church. I do not vouch for the accuracy of the statistics. I wish to impress upon
you the result of this theory of this six thousand years of endeavor on the part of God to
bring his own children to a knowledge of his own truth. The upshot of it is that the few, the
minority, will be saved, and the great majority eternally lost.

Now here is one world theory, one scheme of world history which I wish you to hold clearly
and as definitely as possible in your minds, while I place alongside of it another theory.

According to this other, God did not suddenly create the world in a week or in a hundred thousand
years. It is a story of continuous and eternal creation. As Jesus said, with fine and noble
insight, "My father worketh hitherto." He did not recognize that God was resting on any day
or through any period of time.

 The world, then, has always been in process of creation. The same
forces at work in accordance with substantially the same laws. The
world has been millions of years in this process; and the process all
around us, if we choose to open our eyes and note it, is still going on
with all its wonder and divinity. And we know, as we study the heavens
above us, or around us rather, with our telescopes, that there are
worlds and systems of worlds in process of creation on every hand. We
are permitted to look into the divine workshop and observe the divine
method.

The world, then, is always in process of creation. This is the first point in the new theory.
It follows, of course, from this that we are to hold the story of the antiquity of the earth,
the earth millions of years old, instead of six thousand or ten thousand.

And then, in the third place, it tells us the story of the antiquity of the human race.

All scholars, for example, as bearing on this I will give you just this one illustration, know
that there was a civilization in Egypt, wide- spread, highly developed, with nobody knows how
many ages of growth behind it, there was this civilization in Egypt before the world was created
according to the popular chronology that has been generally received until within a few years.

We know that man has been on the earth hundreds of thousands of years. This is the next point
in that story.

In the next place, they tell us a wondrous tale of the origin and nature of man, tracing his
natural development from lower forms of life. When I say "natural," I do not wish you to think
for one moment that I leave out the divinity; for, according to this story of the world which
I am hinting and outlining now, God is infinitely nearer, more wonderfully in contact with
us, than he ever was in the old. Natural, then, but divine at every step, so that we are seeing
God face to face, if we but think of it, and are feeling his touch every moment of our lives.

No fall of man, then, on this theory. No invasion of this world by any form of evil or any
evil person from without. This story of the fall of man came into the world undoubtedly to
account in some philosophical fashion for the existence of pain, of evil, and of death. We
account for it on this new theory much more naturally, rationally, more honorably for God,
more hopefully for man.

The history of the world, then, since man began has not been by any means a history of universal
progression. Evolution, however much it may be misunderstood and misrepresented, does not mean
the necessity of progress on the part of any one person or any one people, any more, for example,
than the growth of the human body is inconsistent with the fact that cells and composite parts
of the body are in process of decay and dissolution every hour, every moment of our lives.

Nations grow, advance, if they comply with the laws, the conditions, of growth and advance;
and, if not, they die out and disappear. And so is it of individuals. But, on the other hand,
in the presence of the loving, lifting, leading God, humanity in the larger sense has been
advancing from the beginning of human history until to-day; and the grade, dim glimpses of
which we gain as we look out toward the future, is still up and still on.

According to this theory of the universe, there does not need to be any stupendous breaking
in of God into his own world after any miraculous fashion. We do not need an infallible guide
in religion any more than anywhere else, unless we are in danger of eternal loss because of
an intellectual mistake. We do not need any stupendous miracle to reconcile God to his own
world; for he has always been reconciled. We do not need any miraculous bridging of any mythical
gulf; for there never has been any gulf. And the outcome, not as we look forward are we haunted
by fearful anticipations of darkness and evil; as we listen, we do not ever hear the clanking
of chains; as we look, we know that the dimness that hangs over the coming time is not caused
by "the smoke of the torment that ascendeth up forever and ever." It is a story of eternal
hope for every race, for every child of man and child of God.

Here are these two theories, then, two schemes of the universe and of human history. Which
of them shall we accept?

I wish you to note now, and to note with a little care, that you cannot rationally accept a
part of one theory and a part of the other, and so make up a patchwork to suit yourselves.
Take, for example, the one question, Is man lost or is he not? He is not half lost or sort
of lost: he is either lost or he is not lost. Which is true? If he is not "lost," then he does
not need to be "saved." He may need something else; but he does not need that, for the two
correspond and match each other. Let us think, then, a little clearly in regard to this matter,
and remember that the outcome of the conflict between these two theories must be the supremacy
of either one or the other.

Now, before I come to any more fundamental and earnest treatment of the subject, let me call
your attention to certain things that are happening to the old theory.

How much of that old theory is intact to-day? How much of it is held even by those who, being
scholars and thinkers, still hold their allegiance to the old-time theology? Let us see. The
story of the sudden and finite creation of the world is completely gone. Nobody holds that
now who gives it any attention. They have stretched the six days of the week, even those who
hold the accuracy of the Genesis account, into uncounted periods of time. So that is gone.
The antiquity of man is conceded by everybody who has a right to have and express an opinion;
that is, by everybody who has given it any study. Every competent and free scholar knows to-day
that the story of the fall of man and the whole Eden story, is a Babylonian or a Persian legend
that came into the life of the Jews about the time of their captivity, and was not known of
till then among them, and did not take hold on the leading and highest minds of their own people.
And there are, as you know, hundreds, if not thousands of clergymen in all the churches to-
day who are ready to concede that the story of Eden is poetry or legend or tradition: they
no longer treat it as serious history. And yet, as I have said a good many times, they go on
as though nothing had happened, although the foundation of their house has been removed. Only
theories which stand in the air can thus defy the law of gravitation.

Nobody to-day who has a right to have an opinion believes that God ever drowned the world.
That is gone. As to the question as to whether we have an infallible book to guide us in religious
matters, there are very few scholars in any church to-day, so far as my investigations have
led, who hold any such opinion. That is gone; and the Bible, the Old Testament, at any rate
is coming to be recognized, not as infallible revelation, but as ancient literature, immensely
interesting, full of instruction, but not as an unquestioned guide in any department of life.

There are many among the nominally old churches who are coming to hold a very different theory
concerning Jesus, his life, his death, and the effect of his death on the salvation of man.
More reasonable ideas are prevailing here. In every direction also there are thousands on thousands
who are becoming freed from that horrible incubus of fear as they look out towards the future.

As you note then, point after point of this old scheme of the universe is disappearing, being
superseded by something else; until I am astonished, as I converse with friends in the other
churches, to find how little of it is really left, how little of it men are ready, out and
out, to defend. In conversation with an Episcopal clergyman a short time ago on theological
questions, we agreed so well that I laughingly said I saw no reason why I should not become
a clergyman in the Episcopal Church.

Now, friends, what I wish you to note is this: that there is not one single point in this old
scheme of the universe that can be reasonably defended to-day. It is passing away from intelligent,
cultivated human thought.

And note another thing: it is a scheme which is a discredit to the thought of God. It is unjust.
It is dishonorable in its moral and religious implications. It is pessimistic and hopeless
in its outlook for the race. It does not explain the problems of human nature and human experience
half as well as the other theory does, even if it could be demonstrated as truth.

Now let us look at the other. The other theory is magnificent in its proportions. It is grand
in its conception and in its age-long sweep and range. It is worthy of the grandest thought
of God we can frame; and we cannot imagine any increase or heightening or deepening of that
thought which would reach beyond the limits of this conception of the universe, magnificent
in its thought of God. And, instead of being pessimistic and hopeless in its outlook for man,
it is full of hope, of life, of inspiration, of cheer, something for which we well may break
out into songs of gladness as we contemplate.

And, then, it is true. There is not one single feature of it, or point in it, that has not
in the main been scientifically demonstrated to be God's truth. I make this statement, and
challenge the contradiction of the world. Whatever breaks there may be in the evidence for
this second theory that I have outlined, every single scrap and particle of evidence that there
is in the universe is in its favor; and there is not one single scrap or particle of evidence
in favor of the other. As I say, I challenge the contradiction of the scholarly world to that
statement.

It is true then. Being true, it is God's truth, God's theory of things, the outline of human
history as God has laid it down for us; and, as we trace it, like Kepler, we may say, "O God,
I think over again thy thoughts after Thee."

Now I wish you to note one or two things concerning this a little further. There are a great
may persons who shrink from accepting new ideas because they are haunted with the fear that
in some way something precious, something sweet, something noble, something inspiring that
they have associated with the past, is going to be lost. But think, friends. When the Ptolemaic
theory of the universe gave way to the Copernican, not only did the Copernican have the advantage
of being true, but not one single star in heaven was put out or even dimmed its light. All
of them looked down upon us with an added magnificence and a fresher glow, because we felt
at last we were standing face to face with the truth of things, and not with a fallible theory
of man.

Do not be afraid, then, that any of the sanctities, any of the devoutness, any of the tenderness,
any of the sweet sentiments, any of the loves, any of the charities, any of the worships of
the past, are in danger of being lost. Why, these, friends, are the summed-up result of all
the world's finest and sweetest achievement up to this hour; and our theories are only vessels
in which we carry the precious treasure.

I am interested in having you see the truth of this universe, because I believe you will worship
God more devoutly and love man more truly and consecrate yourselves more unreservedly to the
highest and noblest ends, when you can think thoughts of God that kindle aspiration and worship,
and thoughts of men as children of God that make it grandly worth your while to live and die
for them.

Do you think there is going to be a poorer religion than there has been in the past? I look
to the time when we shall have a church as wide as the horizon, domed by the blue, lighted
by the sun, the Sun of Righteousness, the Eternal Truth of the Father; a church in which all
men shall be recognized as brothers, of whatever sect or whatever religion, in which all shall
kneel and chant or lisp their worship according as they are able, the worship of the one Father,
cheered and inspired by the one universal and eternal hope for man.

Do not be afraid of the truth, then, for fear something precious is going to be lost out of
human life. Evolution never gives up anything of the past that is worth keeping. It simply
carries it on, and moulds it into ever higher and finer shapes for the service of man.

 I intimated a moment ago? I wish to touch on this briefly for the sake
of clearness that man, according to this new theory, does not need to
be saved, in the theological sense, of course, I mean, because he is
not lost. He has never been far away from the Father, never been beyond
the reach of his hand, never been beyond the touch of his love and
care. What does he need? He needs to be trained, he needs to be
educated, he needs to be developed for man is just as naturally
religious as he is musical or artistic, as he is interested in problems
of government or economics, or any of the great problems that touch the
welfare of the world.

Man needs churches, then, or societies of those interested in the higher life of the time,
needs services, needs all these things that kindle and train and develop and lift him up out
of the animal into the spiritual and divine nature which is in every one of us. So that none
of the worships, none of the religious forms of the world that are of any value, are ever going
to be cast aside or left behind.

But there is one very important point that I must deal with for just a little while. I will
be as brief as I can.

I have been very much surprised to note certain things that have come out in the recent religious
discussions. The editor of the Brooklyn Eagle, for example, has deprecated all talk in regard
to matters of this sort, saying, in effect: What difference does it make? What is involved
that is of any importance? Why not let everybody worship and believe as he pleases? A writer
in the New York Times? I think perhaps more than one, but one specially I have in mind has
said substantially the same thing. It does not make any difference. Let people worship as they
please, let them believe as they please, let them go their own way. What difference does it make?

Friends, it makes no difference at all, provided there is no such thing in the world as religious
truth. If there is, it makes all difference. Let us take this "Don't care" and "No matter"
theory for a moment, and in the light of it consider a few of the grandest lives of the world.

If it makes no difference what a man believes in religion or how he worships or what he tries
to do, how does it happen that we Unitarians, for example, glorify Theodore Parker, and count
him a great moral and intellectual hero? Why should he have made himself so unpopular as to
be cast out even of the Unitarian fellowship? Was he contending for nothing? Was he a fool?
was he making himself uncomfortable over imaginary distinctions? Perhaps; but, then, why are
we foolish enough to honor him?

Why is it that we glorify Channing, who at an earlier period was cast out of the best religious
society of the world for what he believed to be a great principle? Why is it to-day that we
lift John Wesley on such a lofty pedestal of admiration? He left the Church of England, or
was cast out of it, went among the poor, preached a great religious reform, led a magnificent
crusade, teaching a higher and grander spiritual religion, a religion of heart, of life, of
character, against the mere formalism of the Church of his time. Was he contending about airy
nothings without local habitation or a name? If so, why are we so foolish as to admire him?

Go back further to Martin Luther, putting himself in danger of his life, standing against banded
Europe, and saying, "Here I stand: God help me, I can do no otherwise!" What is the use? What
did he do it for? If it made no difference whether a man worshipped God intelligently or according
to the things Luther thought all wrong, what was the difference? What was he contending about,
and why does the world bow down to him with reverence and honor?

Why are we fools enough to honor the men who were burned at Oxford? Why do we honor to-day
the line of saints and martyrs? Why do we look upon Savonarola with such admiration?

To go back still farther, why was it that the early Christians were ready to suffer torture,
to be racked, to be persecuted, to be thrown into kettles of boiling oil, to be cast to the
wild beasts in the arena? Were they contending for nothing at all? If it makes no difference,
why were they casting themselves away in this Quixotic and foolish fashion and, if there was
nothing involved, how is it that these names shine as stars in the religious firmament of the
world's worship?

Go to the time of Jesus himself. A young Nazarene, he leaves his home in Nazareth, joins the
fortunes of John the Baptist. After John the Baptist had been fool enough to get his head cut
off contending for his theory, Jesus takes up his work, dares to speak against the temple,
dares to challenge the righteousness of the most righteous men of their time, dares at last
to stand so firmly that he is taken out one afternoon and hung upon a tree on the hill beyond
the walls of the city, the one supreme piece of folly in the history of the world from the
"Does not make any difference" point of view.

Is there any truth involved? Does it touch the living or the welfare of the world? If not,
why, then, are these looked upon as the grandest figures since the world began? Are all men
fools for admiring them, except these wiseacres who stand for the theory that it makes no difference
and who ought not to admire them at all?

Suppose you apply the principle in other departments of life. We had a tremendous issue in
this city and country last fall over the financial question. Would it have made any difference
which side won? If it was just as well one way as the other, why not let the people who clamored
for silver have silver, those who wanted greenbacks have greenbacks, and those who desired
gold have gold? What was the use of troubling about it? We thought there were principles involved.

Take it in the economic world, the individualist here with his theory, the socialist here with
his; theories outlined like those in Edward Bellamy's "Looking Backward"; a hundred advancers
of these different schemes, each contending for mastery. And we feel that the welfare of civilization
is at stake; and we stand for our great principles. Take it in politics. What difference does
it make whether the theories embodied in the reign of the Czar of Russia prevail, or these
here in the United States which we are so foolish as to laud and pride ourselves so much about?
What did we have a Civil War for, wasting billions of money and hundreds of thousands of lives?
Are these great human contests about nothing at all?

Friends, think one moment. Either man is a child of God or he is not. Man fell at the beginning
of his history, and came under the wrath and curse of God, or he did not. God has sent angels,
breaking into his natural order of the world, or he has not. He has created an infallible book
or he has not. He has organized an infallible church that has authority to guide and teach
the world or he has not. He himself came down to earth in the form of a man once and for all,
and was crucified, dead and buried and ascended into heaven, or he did not.

These are questions of historic fact. Does it make no difference what we believe about them?
If man is a fallen being, condemned to eternal death, and God has provided only one way for
his escape and salvation, then it makes an infinite and eternal difference as to whether we
know it or believe it or act on it or not. If the majority of the human race is doomed to eternal
torture unless it escapes through certain prescribed conditions, does it make any difference
whether we know it or not?

And, if he is not so doomed, does it make no difference to the heart and hope, the life, the
cheer, the courage and inspiration of man, whether or not we lift from the brain and the heart
this horrible incubus of dread and fear?

Here are all these churches with their wealth, their intelligence, their enthusiasm, their
inspiration, ready to do something for humanity. Does it make any difference whether they are
doing the right thing for it or not? We could revolutionize the world if we could be guided
by intelligence, and find out what man really needs, and devote ourselves to the accomplishment
of what that is. The waste, the waste, the waste of money and thought and energy and time and
inspiration poured into wrong channels, unguided by intelligence, directed towards things that
do not need to be done, and away from things that do need to be done!

These are the questions involved in discussions as to what God is and has done and is going
to do with his world.

The one thing we need, then, almost more than all others just now, is to be led by the truth,
and have the truth make us free from the errors and the burdens of the past, so that we may
place ourselves truly at the disposal of God for the service of our fellows.

O star of truth down-shining, Through clouds of doubt and fear, I ask but 'neath your guidance
My pathway may appear. However long the journey, How hard soe'er it be, Though I be lone and
weary, Lead on, I'll follow thee. I know thy blessed radiance Can never lead astray, However
ancient custom May tread some other way. E'en if through untrod desert Or over trackless sea,
Though I be lone and weary, Lead on, I'll follow thee. The bleeding feet of martyr Thy toilsome
road have trod; But fires of human passion May lead the way to God. Then, though my feet should
falter, While I thy beams can see, Though I be lone and weary, Lead on, I'll follow thee. Though
loving friends forsake me Or plead with me in tears, Though angry foes may threaten To shake
my soul with fears, Still to my high allegiance I must not faithless be, Through life or death,
forever Lead on, I'll follow thee.

DOUBT AND FAITH-BOTH HOLY.

THE object of all thinking is the discovery of truth. And truth for us, what is that? It is
the reality of things as related to us. There has been a good deal of metaphysical discussion
first and last as to what things are "in themselves." It seems to me that this, if it were
possible to find it out, might be an interesting matter, might satisfy our curiosity, but is
of absolutely no practical importance to us. I do not believe that we can find out what things
are in themselves, in the first place; and I do not believe that, if we could, it would be
of any service to us. What we want to know is what things are as related to us, as touching
us, as bearing upon our life, upon our practical affairs.

Once more: there has been a good deal of discussion as to whether the universe is really what
it appears to be to us. They tell us that it is quite another thing from the point of view
of other creatures, to beings differently constituted from ourselves. Again, all this may be.
It might be interesting to me, for example, to look at the world from the point of view of
the fly or of the bird or some one of the animals; but, again, while it might satisfy my curiosity,
it could be of no practical importance to me. It might be very interesting to me to know how
the universe looks from the point of view of an angel. But, so long as I am not an angel, but
a man, what I need to know is what the universe is as related to man.

So truth, I say, then, is the reality of things as related to us.

I must make another remark here, in order perfectly to clear the way. Philosophers and scientific
men, a certain class of them, are perpetually warning us of the dangers of being anthropomorphic.
Some one has said, "Man never knows how anthropomorphic he is." This means, as you know, that
we look at things from the point of view of ourselves. We see things as men, as anthropoi.
This has been erected in certain quarters into a good deal of a bugbear in the way of thinking.
We are told we can never know the universe really, because we shape everything into our own
likeness, we are anthropomorphic, we look at everything from the point of view of men.

I grant the charge; but, instead of being frightened by it, I accept it with content. How else
should we look at things except from the point of view of men, since we are men? We cannot
look at them in any other way. Let us be, then, anthropomorphic. The only thing we need to
guard against is this: we must not assume that we have exhausted the universe, and that we
know it all. This is the evil of a certain type of anthropomorphism. But I cannot understand
why it is important for us to be anything else but anthropomorphic. I want to know how things
look to a man, what things are to a man, how things affect a man, how I am to deal with things,
being a man.

This is the only matter, let me repeat again, which is of any practical importance to us, until
we become something other than men.

Truth, then, the truth that we desire to find, is the reality of things as related to us. Now
doubt and faith are attitudes of mind, and are neither good nor bad in themselves, either of
them. They are of value only as they help us in the discovery of this reality about which I
have been speaking. If a certain type of doubt stands in our way in seeking for truth, then
that doubt so far is evil. If a certain something, called faith, stands in the way of our seeking
frankly and fearlessly for the truth, that is evil. If -doubt helps us to find truth, it is
good: if faith helps us to -find truth, it is good. But the only use of either of them is to
help us discover and live the truth.

The attitude of the Church and by the Church I mean the historic Church of the past towards
doubt and faith is well known to us. It has condemned doubt almost universally as something
evil, sinful. It has extolled faith as something almost universally good. But in my judgment
and I will ask you when I get through, perhaps, to consider as to whether you do not agree
with me the trouble with the human mind up to the present time has not been a too great readiness
to doubt: it has been a too great inclination to believe. There has been too much of what has
been called perhaps by the time I am through you will think miscalled faith; and there has
been too little of honest, fearless, earnest doubt. This is perfectly natural, when you consider
how the world begins, and the steps by which it advances.

Let us take as an illustration the state of mind of a child. A child at first does not doubt,
does not doubt anything. It is ready to believe almost anything that father, mother, nurse,
playmate, may say to it. And why? In the first place it has had no experience yet of anything
but the truth being told it; and in the next place it lives in a world where there are no canons
or standards of probability. In the child- world there are no laws, there are no impossibilities,
there is nothing in the way of anything happening. The child mind does not say, in answer to
some statement, Why, this does not seem reasonable. The child's reason is not yet developed
into any practical activity. The child does not say, Why, this cannot be, because there is
such a force or such a law that would be contravened by it. The child knows nothing about these
forces or laws: it is a sort of a Jack- and-the-Beanstalk world. The beanstalk can grow any
number of feet over night in the world in which the child lives. Anything is possible. If father
and mother and nurse tell the child about Santa Claus coming down the chimney with a pack of
toys on his back, it does not occur to the child to note the fact that the chimney flue is
no more than six inches in diameter, and that Santa Claus and his pack could not possibly pass
through such an opening. All this is beyond the range or thought of the stage of development
at which the child has arrived.

So in the childhood world. As I said, anything may happen. But you will note, beautiful, sunny,
lovely as this childhood world is as a phase of experience, as a stage of development, sweet
as may be the memory of it, yet, if the child is ever to grow to manhood, is ever to be anything,
ever to do anything, it must outgrow this Jack-and-the- Beanstalk world, this Santa Claus world,
this world in which anything may happen, and must begin to doubt, begin to question, begin
to test things, to prove things, find out what is real and what is unreal, what is true and
what is untrue, must measure itself against the realities of things, learn to recognize the
real forces and the laws according to which they operate, so as to deal with them, obey them,
make them serve him, enable him to create character and to create a new type of civilization,
new things on the face of the earth.

Now what is true of each individual child has been true of the race. The world started in childhood;
and for thousands of years it believed very easily, it believed altogether too much for its
good, it believed altogether too readily. Naturally, perhaps, necessary in that stage of its
development; but so long as it remained in that stage there was no possibility of its becoming
master of the earth.

Note, for example, the state of mind of the old Hebrews, I use them merely as an illustration,
because you are familiar with their story as told in the Old Testament. Similar things are
true of every race on the face of the earth. They knew nothing about the real nature of this
universe. They knew nothing about natural forces working in accordance with what we call natural
laws. Consequently, they lived in a child- world, a world of magic and miracle, a world in
which anything might happen. It did not trouble one of the people of that time to be told that,
in answer to the prayer of one of the prophets, an axe-head which had sunk in the water rose
and floated on the surface. There were no natural laws in his mind contradicted by an asserted
fact like that. It never occurred to him to be troubled about it. There was nothing very startling
to him in being told that the sun stood still for an hour or two to enable a general to finish
a battle in which he was engaged. He did not know enough about the universe to see what tremendous
consequences would be involved in the possibility of a thing like that. He was not troubled
when you told him that a man had been swallowed by a great fish, and had lived for three days
and three nights in its stomach, and had come out uninjured. There was no improbability in
it to him. Simply, a question as to whether God had chosen to have the fish large enough so
that it could swallow him. To be told again that a human body that could eat food and digest
it, a body like ours, might rise into the air and pass out of sight into some invisible heaven,
not very far away, there was nothing incredible about it. He knew nothing about the atmosphere,
limited in its range so that it would be impossible to breathe beyond a certain distance from
the planet. He knew nothing about the intense cold that would make life impossible just a little
way above the surface.

The world in which our forefathers lived until modern times was just this magic, Jack-and-the-Beanstalk
world, a world without any impossibilities in it, without any improbabilities in it. All this
thought of the true and the untrue, the possible and the impossible, the probable and the improbable,
is the result of the fact that man has grown up, has left his childhood behind him, has begun
to think, has begun to study, has begun to search for reality, to find out the nature of the
world in which he lives, the forces with which he must deal, to understand the universe at
least in some narrow range, measured by his so-far experience.

The world, then, until modern times has believed too readily, has accepted things too easily.
Let us note, for example, what have been called by way of pre-eminence the Ages of Faith, the
Middle Ages, the age, say, from the seventh or eighth century until the thirteenth or fourteenth.
What was characteristic of those ages? Were they grand, noble? They were ages of ignorance,
of superstition, of cruelty, of immorality, of poverty, of tyranny, of degradation. Almost
everything existed that men would no longer bear to-day; and hardly any of the grand things
that characterize modern civilization had then been heard of.

Where did this modern civilization of ours begin? Did it ever occur to you that it began when
men began to doubt? It began, we say, with the Renaissance. What was the Renaissance? The Renaissance
was the birth of doubt, the birth of question, the demand on the part of men, who began to
wake up and think, for evidence. It was the beginning of the scientific age, the birth of the
scientific spirit which has renovated, re- created, uplifted the world. Men began to think,
to look about them, and to prove all things. And instead of holding fast all things, as they
had been doing in the past, they began to hold fast only the things which they found by experience,
and after testing and trial, to be good.

Here began, then, the civilization of the world; and all that is finest and highest in industry,
in education, in discovery, in the whole external civilization of the world, came in with the
coming of this spirit that questions and that asks for proof.

I do not wish you to understand me as supposing that all kinds of doubt are good, equally good.
The Church, as I said a little while ago, has been accustomed to teach us that doubt was wrong;
and there are certain kinds of doubt that are morally wrong, certain kinds of doubt that are
disastrous to the highest and finest life of the world.

I wish now to analyze a little and define and make clear these distinctions, that you may see
the kind of doubt which is evil and the kind of doubt which is good.

There are doubts which spring out of the fact that men, under the influence of personal interest,
as they suppose, or strong desire, wish to follow certain courses, wish to walk in certain
paths; and they doubt and question the laws, moral or mental, religious or what not, which
stand in their way, which would prohibit their having their will. As an illustration of what
I mean, suppose a man is engaged in a certain kind of business, or wishes to manage his business
in a certain kind of way. He suspects, if he stops and thinks about it, that the interests
of other people may be involved, that the way in which he wants to conduct his business is
a selfish way, that the interests of other people may be injured, that the world as a whole
may not be as well off; but it seems to be for his own advantage.

Now it is very difficult, indeed, for you to persuade a man that he ought to do right under
such circumstances. He is ready to doubt and question as to whether these laws of right are
imperative, whether they are divine, whether they may not be waived one side in the interest
of the thing which he desires to do. So you must guard yourself very carefully, no matter what
the department of life may be that you are facing, if you find yourself doubting under the
impulse of your own wishes, if you are trying to argue yourself into the belief that you may
be permitted to do something which you very much want to do.

Be suspicious of your doubts, then, and remember that probably they are wrong. Great moral
questions may be involved, and doubt may mean wreck here.

There is another field where doubt is dangerous and presumably an evil. You will find most
people, in regard to any question which they have considered or which has touched them seriously,
with their minds already made up. They have some sort of a persuasion about it, they have a
theory which they have accepted; and, if you bring them a truth with ever such overwhelming
credentials which clashes with this preconceived idea or prejudice, the chances are that it
would be met with doubt, with denial, not a clear-cut, intelligent, well- balanced doubt, but
a doubt that springs out of the unwillingness that a man feels to reconstruct his theory.

Let me give you an illustration of what I mean, and this away off in another department of
life from our own, so that it will not clash with any of your particular prejudices. Sir Isaac
Newton won a great and world-wide renown, and magnificently deserved, by his grand discovery
of the law of gravity. You will see, then, how natural it was for people to pay deference to
his opinion, to be prejudiced in favor of his conclusions. It was perfectly natural and, within
certain limits, perfectly right. Sir Isaac Newton not only propounded this law of gravity,
but he propounded a theory of light which the world has since discovered to be wrong. But it
was universally accepted because it was his. It became the accepted scientific theory of the
time. By and by a man, unknown up to that time, by the name of Young, studied Newton's theory,
and became convinced that it was wrong; and he propounded another theory, the one which to-
day is universally accepted through the civilized world. But it was years before it could gain
anything like adequate or fair consideration, because the preconception in favor of Newton's
theory stood in the way of any adequate consideration of the one which was subsequently universally
adopted.

So you will find scientific men, I know any quantity of them, grand in their fields, doing
fine work, who are not willing to consider anything which would compel a reconstruction of
their theories and ideas. This is true not only in the scientific field, but it is true everywhere:
it is true in politics. How many men can you get fairly to consider the political position
of his opponent? He not only doubts the rightness and the sense of it, but he is ready to deny
it. How many people can you get fairly to weigh the position of one who occupies a religious
home different from their own? And these religious prejudices, being bound up with the tenderest
and noblest sentiments, feelings, and traditions of the human heart, become the strongest of
all, and so are in more danger of standing in the way of human progress than anything else
in all the world.

People identify their theories of religion with religion itself, with the honor of God, with
the worship and the love of God, and feel that somehow it is impious for them to consider the
question whether their intellectual theories are correct or not; and so the world stands by
the ideas of the past, and opposes anything like finer and nobler ideas that offer themselves
for consideration. And not only in the religious field; but these religious prejudices stand
in the way of accepting truths outside the sphere of religion. For example, when Darwin published
his book, "The Origin of Species," the greatest opposition it met with was from the religious
world. Why? Had they considered Darwin's arguments to find out whether they were true? Nothing
of the kind. But they flew to the sudden conclusion that somehow or other the religion of the
world was in danger, if Darwinism should prove to be true. And it is very curious to note I
wonder how long the world will keep on repeating that serio-comic blunder from the very beginning
it has been the same; almost every single step that the world proposes to take in advance is
opposed by the constituted religious authorities of the time because they assume at the outset
that the theories which they have been holding are divinely authorized and infallible, and
that it is not only untrue, this other statement, but that it is impious as well.

The doubt, then, that springs from preconceived ideas is not only unjustifiable, but may be
dangerous and wrong.

Then there is another kind of doubt against which you should beware. There are certain doubts
that, if accepted and acted on, stand in the way of the creation of the most magnificent facts
in the world. Take as an illustration of what I mean: when Napoleon, a young man in Paris,
was asked to take command of the guard of the city, suppose he had doubted, questioned, distrusted,
his own ability; suppose he had been timid and afraid, the history of the world would have
been changed by that one doubt. Take another illustration. At the opening of our war or in
the months just preceding the beginning of active hostilities the man then occupying the presidential
chair had no faith, no faith in himself, no faith in the perpetuity of our institutions, no
faith in the people; and so he sat doubting, while everything crumbled in pieces around him.
And then appeared a man in whom the people had little faith at first, and who had no great
faith perhaps in his own ability; but he had infinite faith in God, faith in right, faith in
the people, faith in the possibilities of freedom trusted in the hands of the people. And this
faith created a new nation.

If there had been doubt in the heart of Abraham Lincoln, again the history of the world would
have been &hanged.

You see, then, here is another field where you had better be wary of doubt. Do not doubt yourself,
do not doubt the possibilities of noble action, noble character, of achievement. We say of
a young man entering life, brimful of enthusiasm, that all this will be toned down by and by;
and we speak of it as though the enthusiasm itself somehow was a fault or a folly. And yet
it is just this enthusiasm of the young men that moves and lifts the world. It is this faith
in themselves and in the possibility of great things, it is this faith that lies at the heart
of every invention, of every great discovery, of every magnificent achievement. Read the history
of invention. The world is full of stories of men who got a new idea. They were laughed at,
they were told it was impracticable; and, if they had been laughed out of it, it would have
been impracticable. It was their faith in the possibility of some great new thing, their faith
in the resources of the universe, their faith in themselves as able to discover some new truth
and make it applicable to the needs of the world, it was this faith which has been at the root
of the grandest things that have ever been done.

It is this which was in the heart of Columbus as he sailed out towards the West. It is this
which was in the heart of Magellan as he studied the shadow of the earth across the face of
the moon, and believed in the story that shadow told him against the constituted authorities
of the world.

But now let us turn sharply, and find out where doubt does come in, and where it is as honorable,
as noble, as necessary as faith.

People misuse this word "faith." Doubt applies to all questions of fact that may be investigated,
to all questions of history, to all questions open to the exercise of the critical faculty.
For example, if I am told that Moses wrote the Pentateuch, and I say I accept that statement
on faith, I am abusing the dictionary. I have no business to accept it on faith. Faith has
nothing whatever to do with it. It is a pure matter of scholarship. It is a matter of study,
of investigation, a matter of clear and hard intelligence and nothing more.

Suppose I am told that the Catholic Church is infallible, and I am asked to accept it as an
article of faith. Here, again, the introduction of the word "faith" into a domain like that
is an impertinence. Faith has nothing whatever to do with it. That is a question of fact. We
can read history for the last eighteen hundred years. We can find out what the Catholic Church
has said and what the Catholic Church has done, as to whether it has proved itself absolutely
infallible or not. It is a matter of study and decision intellectually; and it is my duty to
doubt that which does not bring authentic credentials in a field like this.

Take the question of the authorship of the Gospel of John. Was it written by the apostle John,
who lay in the bosom of Jesus, and was called the beloved disciple? Have I any business to
say I have faith that it was written by him, and let it rest there? Faith has nothing to do
with it. We can trace the history of that book, find out when first it was referred to, follow
it back as far as possible, find out whether it was in existence before the apostle John had
died or not. It is a pure matter of criticism, a matter of study; and I have no business to
accept it as a matter of faith, because, if I do, I am in danger not only of deceiving myself,
but of misleading the world. And truth, we cannot say it too often or too emphatically, truth
is the only thing that is holy in investigations of this kind. Men's beliefs and mistakes,
old, venerable, reverenced though they may have been by thousands and for hundreds of years,
are no less unworthy longer to delude the minds of men. Truth is divine, truth is the one object
of our search.

Now let us come to consider for a moment the nature of faith. I said a little while ago that
the word is very frequently misused. Nine times out of ten, when I hear people using the word
"faith" and I see the connection in which they use it, I discover they do not know the meaning
of the word. That which has favor generally under the name of faith is simple credulity. It
is closing the eyes and accepting something on somebody's authority without any investigation.
That, remember, is not faith.

Let us see now if I can give you a clear idea of what faith really is; and now I have the Bible
and I am glad to say it  behind me. This magnificent chapter,* a portion of which I read as
our lesson this morning, gives precisely the same idea of faith as that which I am going to
outline. What is faith? Faith is a purely rational faculty. It is not irrational, but it is
perfectly understandable. Suppose there is a man suddenly accused of a crime, and I never saw
him before, I do not even know his name; but I go into court when he is brought up for trial,
and I say that I have faith in that man, and I do not believe that he committed the crime.
Do you not see that I am talking nonsense? I have no business to have faith in him, there is
no ground for faith, it is an entire misuse of the word. But now take another case. Here is
a man that I have known for twenty years. I have seen him in business. I have seen him in his
home, among his neighbors and friends, and in the street. I have met him in all sorts of relations.
I have talked with him, I have tested him. I have been intimate with him. He is suddenly accused
of crime, and is brought into court. I appear, and say I have faith in that man, I do not believe
that he committed the crime. I do not know that he did not commit it; but I have grounds here
for faith. In the light of his past life, of his experience, of his temptations, of his opportunities
to go wrong, and of his having gone right, in the light of all this past experience of years,
I have faith in this man; and I say it, and I am talking reason and sense. In the other case
I am talking folly.

Faith, you see, is a rational faculty. Let me give you another illustration. Suppose I am driving
along through the country some morning when there is a very thick fog hanging over the landscape.
The fog is so thick that I can see no more than ten or fifteen feet ahead of me; but I discover
that I am near the bank of a river, and I come to the entrance to a bridge. I can see enough
to know that here is an abutment of a bridge and an arch springing out into the fog. I drive
on to that bridge with simple confidence. I do not know that there is any other end to the
bridge. I have never seen it before. I have seen other bridges, however; and I know that, generally,
bridges not only begin somewhere, but end somewhere. So, though I do not know for certain that
the bridge ends on the other side of the river, for aught I know there may be a break in it,
the bridge may not be completed, something may have happened to it, I confidently drive on;
and in ninety-nine times out of a hundred my faith is justified by the result. This is a pure
act of faith, but faith, do you not see, based in reality, springing out of experience, and
so a purely rational act of the mind.

Let me give you one illustration of the scientific use of faith, very striking, beautiful,
as it seems to me. The only time Mr. Huxley was in this country, I happened to be in New York,
and heard him give the opening one of a brief course of three lectures in Chickering Hall.
He was very much interested then in the ancestry of the horse. Most of you are probably aware
of the fact that they have traced its ancestry to a little creature having five toes, like
ordinary animals. At the time that Mr. Huxley was here, one link in this chain was missing;
that is, one of the forms in the line of the horse's ancestors had not been discovered.

But here, for example, was the first one and the second one, we say, and the third one was
missing, and here was the fourth one, and here was the horse itself. Now, in the light of the
presumable uniformity of nature, Mr. Huxley went on to describe this missing animal. He said,
if the remains of this creature are ever found, they will be so and so; and he went into an
accurate detailed explanation as to what sort of creature it would be. He had not been at his
home in England a year before Professor Marsh, of Yale College, discovered this missing link
in Colorado, and it answered precisely to the description which Professor Huxley had beforehand
given of it.

Now here is a case of scientific prophecy, scientific faith, a faith based on previous scientific
observations, based on the experienced uniformity of nature. Mr. Huxley did not know, he could
not have known; but he believed. He believed in the universe, he believed in the sanity of
the universe, he believed in the uniformity, the order, the beauty of the universe; and the
result justified his faith.

Faith, then, is a purely rational faculty. It has nothing to do with the past, but is always
the evidence of things hoped for, the substance of something not yet seen. It is always looking
along the lines of possible experience for something as possibly or probably to be.

Now at the end I wish to suggest a few things that are in the rightful province and field of
faith, fields where we can fearlessly exercise this grand faculty, where indeed we must exercise
it if we are to achieve the highest and finest results in the world.

And, in the first place, quoting the words of the old writer, let me say, "Have faith in God."
I do not mean by this, accept certain intellectual statements or propositions about him, though
they may be mine, and though I may thoroughly accept and believe them.

You may doubt the representation of God that is made in any one of the theologies of the world,
as to whether the statements made about him are accurate. It is not this intellectual belief
that I am talking about at this minute. Have faith in God! You may not even use the name. I
am no such stickler for phrases as to condemn a man who cannot say "God." I have known a good
many men, who have hesitated to pronounce the name, who were infinitely more divine in their
life and character than those who are glibly uttering it every hour of their lives. It is not
this I mean. It is something deeper, higher, grander than that. As you look along the lines
of history from the far-off time when we begin to trace it until to-day, and see the magnificent
march of advance, an orderly universe lightening and glorifying as it advances, becoming ever
finer and higher and better; as you observe the order and truth and beauty and good dominant,
and ever coming to be more and more dominant as the years advance, believe in this and trust
this, trust to all possibilities of something finer and grander by way of outcome in the future.
Have faith in God!

And, then, have faith in truth. I meet only a few people that seem to me to have utter faith
in truth, who really believe that it is safe to tell the truth, always tell it. I talk with
a great many people I wish to mention this as an illustration of what I mean who speak in the
greatest commendation of the Roman Catholic Church. They say, We do not know what we should
do in this country if we had not the Roman Catholic Church to keep a certain section of the
people down, to keep them in order. I wonder if people ever realize just what this means. It
means a lack of faith in God and faith in truth and faith in humanity, all three. If it is
not safe to tell the truth, then I am not responsible for it. I propose to say it, although
people tell me that there is danger of the explosion of the universe on account of it. If there
is, I am not responsible for making it true. Oh, I get so tired of this kind of timidity, this
playing hide-and-seek with people! I have had a minister tell me that he wished he was free
to tell the truth in his pulpit, as I am; and then I have had people in his congregation tell
me afterwards that they wished their minister would preach the truth plainly, as I did. Simply
playing hide-and-seek with each other!

You remember the story of the man in Italy, who asked the priest if he really believed the
religion of the country; and the priest said, "Oh, no! we have to go slowly on account of the
people; they believe it." And when the people were asked if they believed it, they said, "Oh,
no, we are not such fools; but the priests believe it." And so people play hide-and-seek with
each other, not daring to tell the magnificent, clear truth of things.

Have faith in the truth. It is feared that it is not quite safe to tell people the truth, because
they are not quite ready for it; and I have had no end of conversations during the religious
discussion of the last two or three weeks right in this line. It seems to me very much like
saying that, because a man has been shut up in a dark prison for a long time, you had better
keep him there, because it would be such a shock to him suddenly to face the light. Undoubtedly,
it would be a shock. Undoubtedly, it would trouble and stagger people for a little while to
be told the simple truth; but how is the world ever to get ahead, if you keep on, as a matter
of policy, lying to it for ages? How is it ever going to find the truth? Shall I lie for the
glory of God, the supposed honor of God? I will take no such responsibility.

Let us have faith in the truth, then. Tell it fearlessly, simply, utterly; and, if God is not
able to take care of his own world, why, the sooner it ends and we get into a stage of existence
where it is safe to tell the truth, the better.

Have faith in men. Have faith in the people. This it is that we trust to in all our hopes of
progress for the future. This it is which distinguished Lincoln among our statesmen. You remember
that grand saying of his, true and humorous, so that it sticks in our memory, and we can never
forget it, "You can fool all the people a part of the time; you can fool a part of the people
all the time; but you can't fool all the people all of the time." Here is the basis on which
we rest our republic. Our republic is fallen unless the people are really to be trusted.

Have faith, then, in the people, faith in their healthy instincts, faith in their general sanity,
faith in their desire for the right and the true; and this is a genuine exercise of faith,
for the past history of the world justifies it.

And, then, have faith in yourself as a child of God. I do not mean conceit now. I do not mean
an overestimate of your ability, but belief that you can do great, grand, noble things, belief
that you can become something great, noble, grand; belief in the possibility in this life or
in some other life of unfolding all that is highest, truest, sweetest, in manhood and womanhood.
It is this faith that is able to create the fact and make that which it trusts in.

Let us then believe in God, believe in truth, believe in humanity, believe in ourselves; and
then we may work towards the coming of that far, grand time when the dreams of the world shall
be realized and its faith shall become reality.

IS LIFE A PROBATION ENDED BY DEATH?

MY subject this morning is an attempted answer to the question, "Is Life a Probation ended
by Death?" It will broaden itself naturally, if we cannot accept that theory of it, into the
further question, What is the main end and purpose of our life? I take my text from the fifth
chapter of the Epistle to the Ephesians, the fifteenth and the sixteenth verses. I will read
them as they appear in the Old Version: "See, then, that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools,
but as wise, redeeming the time."

The idea of the writer is that, as we pass through the world, we should do it with our eyes
kept intelligently open, looking about us on every hand, trying to comprehend the situation,
to see what things are, and what we ought to do to play our part in the midst of them. Not
heedlessly, not unwisely, he says, perhaps hardly the harsh word "fools," but as wise, as persons
intelligently ready to take advantage of the situation and make the most of the condition in
which one finds himself; redeeming the time, or, as the Revised Version has it, "buying up
the opportunity "; being ready, that is, to pay whatever price is necessary in order to make
the most of the situation.

This, then, is the spirit according to our text in which we should look over the problem of
life; and this is the method by which we should attempt to guide its practical affairs.

That which people regard as the matter of most importance, any particular theory or plan of
life which they may hold to be for them the most desirable, this, of course, is that to which
they will direct their chief attention, on which they will lavish their thought, on which they
will pour out their care, to which they will consecrate their energies. If now the theory or
plan of life be false, if it be inadequate, if one is looking in the wrong direction for the
success that he desires, or if he expects to achieve the great end and object of living by
means which are not real, which do not match the actual facts of the world and of human life,
then of course his effort is so far thrown away. He wastes energies, power, time, enthusiasm
on wrong ends which might be used to the attainment of things which are real and fine and high.

Is it not then of the utmost importance that our conception of life, what it is for, what we
ought to attempt to reach, and how we should make this attempt, should be an accurate one?
Any young man starting out in life, if he sets up for himself a goal which is unworthy, which
does not match his faculties and powers, and if he proposes to reach it by means which are
not adequate to the attainment of his desires, do you not see how he wrecks and wastes his
life? His opportunity is gone; and by and by he wakes up to find that the years have been dissipated,
and he has not attained any worthy or noble end.

If this be true of a young man as he looks forward to a scheme or plan of life here during
these few short years, how much more is a similar thing true, when we are contemplating not
merely the question of a business, or professional or social failure and success, but are looking
at the grander and more inclusive theme of the beginning and aim and outcome of life itself
We have inherited from the past the idea that this life here, under the blue sky for a few
years, as we live it, is a probation, that we are put here on trial, and that death ends it,
and that, when we have passed that line, gone over from that which is visible here into the
invisible, we are either "lost" or "saved," and things are definitely fixed forever.

I am perfectly well aware that the most of us who are here have given up this idea, though
there may remain fragments and suggestions of it in our minds still haunting the chambers of
the brain, not yet outgrown, not yet cleared away. But with most people in the modern world,
if they are sincere, if they are consistent, the one great question with them is whether they
are to be saved or lost in another life. And, if this be the true theory of things, then not
only ought men to bend all their thought, their energies, devote their enthusiasms, consecrate
their time and money to it as much as they do, but a thousand times more.

We look, perhaps, with a sort of amused curiosity, some of us, from what we regard as our superior
point of view, at a man like Mr. Moody; and yet Mr. Moody is one man out of a million for his
consistency and consecration to the thought which underlies all the Protestant churches of
the modern world, with the exception of a few here and there. Mr. Moody believes that this
life is a probation ended by death. There are thousands on thousand on thousands of men who
say they believe it, who still cast in all their influence with churches that are based on
it, and who yet devote their energies mainly to making money, to attaining social success,
to pleasures of one kind or another, to political ambitions, who live as though this great
fate were not overhanging the world, who meet their neighbors for pleasure or business, believing,
if they are sincere, that this neighbor is heedlessly walking on to the brink of a gulf, and
yet never speaking to him about it, never saying a word to imply that they really believe it;
and yet this fear hangs over them, haunts their consciousness waking or sleeping; and, if you
ask them if they believe it, they will say they suppose they do. In hours of danger, when disease
threatens them or they are looking death in the face, they are affrighted, and try to flee
to the traditional refuge as a place of safety.

The whole great Catholic Church teaches that nobody has the slightest chance of being saved
except by becoming a member of her great body of believers and partaking of her sacramental
means of grace.

This, I say then, is the great underlying belief of Christendom; and, if it is true, the world
ought to consecrate itself, head and brain and soul, time, money, power, prayer, enthusiasm,
everything, to delivering men from the imminent danger. If it is not true, then it ought to
be brushed completely one side, put out of consciousness, of thought, of fear. The world ought
to be dispossessed of its haunting presence. Why? So that we may fix our attention on the true
end and aim of life, and find out what it means to live, how we ought to live, and why and
what for, what ought to be the goal of our human endeavor.

So long, then, as this belief does lie at the foundation of all the great churches of Christendom,
so long as it is employed in all the criticisms of us who do not any longer accept it, it seems
to me that it is worth our while to reconsider the question for a little while, so that we
may clear our minds and thoughts, and may fix our attention definitely and earnestly on that
which ought to be the goal of all our endeavor, our enthusiasm and our hope.

Let us, then, look for just a few moments at this theory, and see what it means and implies.

It is said that our first father was put on probation, was called upon to decide, not for himself
only, but for all his descendants, as to what the future history of the inhabitants of this
planet should be. Two famous books were published only a few years ago by Dr. Edward Beecher,
the eldest son in that famous family. These were "The Conflict of Ages" and "The Concord of
Ages." Dr. Beecher argued that anything like a fair probation on the part of Adam was an impossibility.
This in the face of the prevailing beliefs of the time when the books were written. He said
that, if a man were to choose on such a momentous question as this, choose adequately, choose
fairly, he must be so circumstanced and endowed that he could comprehend the entire result
of his choice. He must be able to look down the ages imaginatively, and see on one hand all
the line of sin and misery, of death, finite and eternal, which should issue from his choosing
in one direction. He must be able to comprehend all the good, the music, the joy, the beauty,
the glory, the infinite perfectibility, in this world and the next, which should follow his
choice in the other direction. And he said that Adam had no such opportunity as that, and was
not endowed with the ability or the experience to make any such momentous choice; in other
words, that the fundamental basis of the whole theological scheme of the world was unjust and
unfair.

This was Dr. Beecher's contention. How did he get over the difficulty? He believed in the pre-existence
of human souls, and that in some other life before Adam there must have been an intelligent
and fair choice, and that we here and now are only fighting out one stage of the results of
that far-off decision. But, if you will stop to think of it a moment, you will see that this
puts the difficulty only a little further back: it does not solve it. How does this first person,
if it is so, countless millions of ages ago, happen to be endowed with intelligence and experience
and ability enough to make such a momentous choice?

And now just consider a moment. Is it conceivable that a sane person should intelligently choose
evil, unless he had some inherited bias or tendency in that direction? For what does the choice
of evil mean? It means sorrow, it means pain, it means death, it means everything horrible,
everything undesirable, and means that a person deliberately and intelligently pits himself
against an infinite and almighty power in what he knows must be an eternally losing battle.
Can you conceive of a sane person making such a choice as that?

If one of these first ancestors in the Garden of Eden, or no matter how far back, had a right
to choose for himself, I deny his right to choose for me. What right had he to choose for you?
What right had he to determine that you should be born with a perverted and corrupt nature,
so that you would be certain to choose evil instead of good, helpless in the hands of a fate
like this?

Now you may look at this theory any way you please, place this probationary choice at the beginning
of human history on this planet, or place it just as far back as you will, it is inconceivable,
it is unfair, it is unjust, it is insane, it is everything that is foolish and wrong. And yet,
note clearly one thing. So long as the world believes this, so long as the one end and aim
of human life, as held up to people, is to be saved, think of the waste, think of the time,
the anxiety, the enthusiasms, the prayers, the consecrations; think of the wealth, think of
the intellectual faculties, think of the moral devotion, this whole power of the world expended
on a false issue, turned into wrong channels!

Is this a dead question? Is there no reason for us to consider it here in this latter part
of the nineteenth century? Why, nine-tenths of Christendom to-day is spending its time in trying
to propitiate a God who is not angry and trying to "save" souls that are not "lost." Expending
its energies along mistaken channels towards issues that are entirely imaginary! Think, for
example, if during the last two thousand years all the time and the money, all the intelligence,
all the consecration, could have been spent on those things that would have really helped men
to find out the meaning of life, and to illustrate that meaning in earnest living; suppose
the money that has been spent on the cathedrals, on the monasteries, spent in supporting hordes
and hordes of priests, spent in all the endeavor to save men in a future life, if all this
had been used in educating men and training them into a comprehension of what kind of beings
they really are, what kind of a world this is in which they have found themselves, spent in
training them into mastery of themselves, spent in teaching them how to understand and control
the forces of nature in order to serve and develop the higher life, think what a civilization
might have been developed here on this poor old planet by this time! How much of the disease,
how much of the corruption, how much of the unkindness, how much of the cruelty, how much of
all that still remains in us of the animal, might have been outgrown, sloughed off, put underneath
our feet!

Is it not, then, a vital question, so long as so many thousands, so many millions of people
are still consecrating their time, their money, their energy, in the attempt to do that which
does not need to be done?

Let us turn, now, and for a little while face another theory of human life; try to find out,
or to suggest, what we are here on this planet for, what may be accomplished, how much of grand
and true may be wrought out as the result of our attempt.

The philosopher Kant has somewhere said that there are three things needed to the success of
a human life, "something to do, some one to love, something to hope for." The old Catechism
says that the chief end of man is "to glorify God and enjoy him forever." I indorse the words
of Kant; I agree most heartily and thoroughly with the Catechism. Philip James Bailey, the
author of that once famous poem "Festus," has said,

"Life's but a means unto an end; that end, Beginning, mean, and end to all things, God."

This also I indorse. I believe that life is something inner, something deeper than that which
we ordinarily think of as constituting the matters of chief concern regarding it. Let me quote
two or three lines again from Bailey's "Festus," familiar to you because so fine.

What is human life, then? What is it for? The object of life is living. But what does living
mean? Most people cannot answer that question, because they have never more than half lived,
and consequently have never appreciated its depth and significance. As I have had occasion
over and over and over again, to say to business men, and I like to say it on every opportunity,
it seems to me, as I look over the face of society, that most people live only in some little
fragmentary way, some corner of their being.

