Is it all joy to find God? How can it be? Can faults and sins be eradicated without pain? Life
here for the lover of God is one long eradication of offences. How can even the daily requirements
of flesh be fulfilled without pain? How without profound humiliation and patience can we descend
from Contemplation to duties in the household? How without pain consider with that same mind
which has so recently been rapt in God--the various merits of breads, pastries, and portions
of dead animals, in order that flesh shall eat and live! What a fall is this!--a fall that
must be taken daily and patiently. Is it all joy to love God? How can it be? For Love carries
in itself a terrible wound of longing which can never be healed till we come before Him in
possession Face to Face.

And many times a day in an unpremeditated natural anguish Love remembers the sufferings of
that meek and holy Saviour; how can it be a joy to the soul that passionately loves Him to
stand before a tortured Lord, tortured for her? There never was a pain as hard and sharp as
this. There are no tears like the tears we shed to Christ.

XVI

We say of God that He is Love and Light, Wisdom and Truth. He is also a Gracious Consenting.
So we see the Divine Light Consenting to darkness that it may return to Light, and Divine Love
Consenting to infidelity that it may return to Perfect Love.

But this Gracious Consenting is not because of or since Adam, but Adam "is" because of this
Consenting.

In the flesh of Adam the fallen soul is brought to a stay-point. Any that have experienced
spirit-living even for one hour know that in immortal living is no stay-point but infinity
of movement, in which movement the wandering soul becomes lost and finally insensitive. By
means of the flesh the soul is brought to that stay-point where she more easily receives and
understands the impregnation of Consenting Light, which is the Divine Begetting; and she receives
the drawing power of Consenting Love: she is directly operated upon by the Divine Pity Who
Himself came to show her the Way of Return: first, by the negation or sacrifice of flesh lusts;
secondly, by the sacrifice of spiritual lusts (by which the soul originally fell); until finally,
by death to all lusts and infidelities she is reunited to the blisses of Immortal Life. This
is the kindly purpose of our life in this world. Christ being Eternal Light and Love and Life,
we also are eternal who contain Christ.

So, then, we consent to abandon all lusts of the flesh whilst also consenting to endure any
consequences of these lusts in ourselves and others, not in unwillingness to endure, which
is resistance, but in submission. From consenting to abandon the delights of the flesh we advance
to consenting to the withdrawal of all spiritual delights from us: enduring instead spiritual
difficulties, standing firm in the strength of Christ whilst the assaults of self-will and
infidelity batter the soul.

We consent to abandon self-absorption in the delights of God, and, returning to the world,
endeavour to perform all acts of life in the world in a manner consonant with perfection; but
this is impossible: this effort is insupportable without Grace. We cannot do it alone. We learn
to know it and to know that we are never alone. Even if we fall into the deepest sin, we are
not abandoned by the Divine Graciousness: by consenting to abandon this wickedness we are immediately
reunited with the Divine Consenting, and so onwards and upwards in an ever-ascending improvement
to perfection: and by consenting the soul daily sinks into the balm of Christ and loses her burden.

We see the Perfection of this divine consenting and abandonment of Self-Will in the final picture
of the Cross. We see unmurmuring consent to the death of flesh, consent to the attacks of evil,
consent to injustice, consent to infidelity (and straightway they all forsook Him and fled),
and, finally, consent to the death of Divine Union: this not without groanings, as being the
one supreme and only insupportable Agony.

XVII

How is it that Perfect Love can consent to the wandering of the soul with its consequent sorrow
and sin? Divine Light, being also Perfect Freedom, consents to the wandering of the soul; but
Divine Love, being also Reciprocity, may not consent to such wandering as shall for ever preclude
Reciprocity. The wandering soul must be, will be, Redeemed. A limit can be fixed by Evil, Evil
the outermost circle from God, the shore on which, continually breaking and being broken, the
soul turns herself in longing to a long-forgotten Lord. Evil is the hedge about the vineyard
of the Parable. The soul is free to touch it, free to pass through it if she will, but touching
it she knows Pain. Pain causes the soul to pause and consider: now is her opportunity; now
she is likely to turn about and seek the Good.

Then the purpose of Evil is fulfilled; then Evil becomes the handmaid of Good; then we can
feel and say with sincerity, Evil has smitten me friendly, for it has caused me to turn about
and seek Good. Good, once found, is found to be stronger than Evil. In a few years Good has
so drawn us that Evil has become negligible; it lies forgotten on a now distant misty shore.
The soul is Homeward bound.

XVIII

"If the wicked turn from his sins that he hath committed and keep my statutes . . . all his
transgressions that he hath committed, they shall not be mentioned unto him."--Ezekiel xviii.
21, 22.

XIX

Who is so blessed as the Redeemed Sinner? Who can taste the sweetness of God as can the repentant
sinner? Who can know His graciousness, His infinity of tenderness and courtesy, as can the
sinner? Who knows the heights and depths and lengths and breadths of God's forgiving love as
does the sinner? Who can share with God hereafter such close experiences as will the sinner?

Can Angels share the memories of His human days with Christ? And who but the sorely tempted
sinner can be bonded to Him by the mutual knowledge of those bitter, burning, desert days?
Not the Righteous, nor even Angels can know quite the full beauty of all the bonds that bind
the sinner to his Saviour. O marvellous love of God! O blessed soul, O blessed Adam, blessed
even in thy sins!

He desired lovers and had none: Created Angels, and, desiring to prove them as lovers, He made
Him a Lure.

A third of them turned to the Lure and fell to It. They serve the Lure and take their bread
from It, and the offspring of the serving is Evil.

Desiring more lovers, He fashioned souls; yet, when He proved them, they also fell to the Lure.

Being lesser than Angels, they served not the Lure, but the offspring of it--Evil--and became
subject to Evil. They were made for Love, and in Evil found no Love, and it was an anguish
and it tormented them.

And He put them in flesh, that He might limit their suffering and show them His Light again;
covered them about with Limits like a merciful Cloak; hedged them in with Evil as a boundary,
so they should have no will to fall away further from Him than Evil because of the pain of it.

But in flesh they continued to serve Evil, and the offspring of the serving was Sin: and they
were miserable in their service, because of the pain of it; yet no soul could break the bondage
of service, because no soul could be found that, being subject, did not serve, and in serving
lose freedom by its own offspring.

Then He sent His Spirit to walk with them in flesh, and being proven as a Lover, was not found
wanting, and being subject to Evil did not serve, and remaining Sinless had no offspring to
destroy His freedom, and He broke the bondage and showed them a light.

