But not so where the American has set his impious foot--impious of the dogma that you can not
change the East, nor hurry it. He enjoyed the finesse of the phrase, quoted it, then jumped
in to hustle the East. The old timers,--Spaniards and Britishers for the greater part--shrugged
at each other over their heavy tiffins and nine o'clock dinners; these crazy Americans would
soon learn! But the crazy, enthusiastic Americans, engineers, health officers, executives,
school teachers, Constabulary, labored on in the glory of service: eradicated cholera, built
roads and bridges, brought six hundred thousand children into school that two score tribes
might find a common tongue, fought the devastating cattle plagues, wiped out brigandage and
piracy, brought order and first semblance of prosperity to eight millions of people.

Young men did it all. The old-timers suddenly found that they were living in new times, in
clean, healthful towns: found that business was increasing by leaps and bounds as the natives
fell in behind the young Americans with a quicker stride than Orientals had ever known. And
they are the reasons--those few thousands of smooth-faced Americans who laughingly threw themselves
at the wall of immemorial sloth and apathy--why Kipling's phrase is seldom quoted east of India,
and now not often there. And they are the reasons, those carefully chosen, confident young
men of whom too many are buried over there, that we have so much of which to be proud in what
has been done in our name for a backward, unfortunate people.

But we, you and I, do not know very much about it all: it is so far away and we are so busy
with our affairs, our politics, our--

... You know ... we are just too busy to bother about those Tagalogs and headhunters who live
over there where Dewey licked Cervera, and Aguinaldo was king of the Igorotes or something,
and Pershing rose from a captain to a general: why, I heard one of those Filipinos make a speech
about independence and he was so smart and bright--he had been sent to our congress or something
and was handsome and polished and....

Yes, he doubtless was. That is why he was sent: but he bore about the same mental relation
to the race he is supposed to represent as a Supreme Court Justice bears to a Georgia cracker!

       *       *       *       *       *

Terry had thoroughly assimilated the atmosphere of the Luzon provinces in his seven months
in the Islands, so he found a real pleasure in studying a Moro town which had been under the
energizing influence of the Army for nearly two decades. He wandered slowly through the native
quarter, cutting down clean cross streets lined with neat nipa huts inclosed behind latticed
bamboo fences, enjoying the novelty of a community different from any he had known. Every detail
of the well kept streets testified to the strictness of the standards set by the white men
who governed the town. The few Moros whom he encountered on the noon-deserted streets passed
him silently and with averted eyes, wary, secretive, entirely alien. One looked him square
in the eye, leaving him uncomfortable with the antipathy unveiled, the cold, everlasting contempt
of the Mohammedan for the unbeliever whom he does not know.

He walked with lids half-closed against the white glare and the heat waves which danced above
the tortured roads and roofs: by the hour set for his luncheon engagement he had covered the
town thoroughly, including the beautiful post which had been turned over to Scouts when the
Army at last finished its tedious Moro project.

He found the Major waiting him at the Club, a large, single-story building set in a grove of
tall palms at the edge of the beach and cooled by the breezes from the Straits. He followed
him out on the wide veranda built over the water's edge, passing through a friendly, incurious
group of young Americans who sat at little round tables in groups of three and four. Major
Bronner responded to a dozen greetings as they crossed to a table set for two at the edge of
the veranda. In a moment the deft tableboy had their service under way.

"Well," began the Major, "you will have a busy time of it during the rest of your stay--I wish
it were to be longer. This afternoon I want you to come to the office with me--there are lots
of things to talk over about your work down there. The Governor will see you about five o'clock.
How do you like Zamboanga?"

"It's clean, and interesting, Major."

"'Clean and interesting!' That is a boost! Though we can't take much credit for the 'interesting'--the
Moros furnish that!"

The white-smocked servants moved noiselessly about the cool veranda, serving the score of Americans
with that perfect impersonal care found nowhere except among Oriental servitors: the subdued
clatter of silver against dish and the tinkle of iced drinks was often drowned in outbursts
of merriment from one or other of the little tables. Most of the Americans were mere youths,
though two were evidently in their forties. Bronner noted Terry's study of a group of three
who sat nearby, heavily tanned men evidently not quite at home in the club.

"Davao planters," he explained. "Hemp planters: you will know them. Three good men: they're
going down on your boat."

Lunch finished, coffee and cigars furnished excuse for the white-clad crowd to linger on the
darkened porch: scraps of shop talk reached Terry's ears, a jargon of strangely twisted English
and Spanish words. Bridges, appropriations, rinderpest, lack of labor, artesian wells, cholera--such
was their table talk, as such was their life.

The breeze freshened, gently stirring the potted plants which flanked each row of tables; the
hot stillness of the noon gave way to the sibilant murmur of the cocoanut palms whose bases
were lapped by the quickening ripples. The breaking of the withering calm was the signal for
departure to office and field. The veranda cleared rapidly. Bronner, watching the three planters,
interrupted their departure.

"Lindsey--just a minute."

He took Terry to their table and introduced him.

"Lieutenant Terry, gentlemen: Mr. Lindsey, Mr. Cochran, Mr. Casey. Lieutenant Terry goes to
Davao to-morrow as Senior Inspector. You will be able to help him, till he learns his way down
there--and later he may be able to help you."

Terry shook hands with the three in turn. All were out-doors men, bronzed, diffident with the
social shyness of men who live their lives alone or among none but alien people. Lindsey and
Cochran were square-set, serious young men: Casey, older, but of eager, enthusiastic mien.

The Major discussed them as he and Terry left the club.

"They're three of the best planters in the Gulf. You'll have no trouble with them. But you
may with some others, those who have a fancied grievance against the government just now. I
had better start at the beginning.

"You know the best hemp in the world grows down there--soil, climate, rainfall all combine
wonderfully to make it the one ideal spot for hemp production. In another twenty years it will
probably rate as the richest single agricultural area on the globe--that's why those little
fellows over there"--he indicated a pair of Japanese passing on the opposite side of the street--"are
piling into Davao so fast these days.

"The world needs hemp--and areas where it can be cultivated are rare. Three years ago a little
stampede occurred into Davao; the pioneers are a mixed lot--about sixty Americans, a few Britishers,
a scattering of Moros and Filipinos and nearly two hundred Japs. The Japs are quiet--you will
seldom see them: they stay on their places and 'saw wood'; they're backed by some syndicate--probably
their government. But the others are lone handers, working on their own 'shoe-strings' or financed
by the contributions of optimistic shareholders in Manila.

"They are good men, these planters. You will like them. They went into the fastnesses of Mindanao,
braved the wild tribes, cleared their land, planted hemp, working largely with their own hands--and
in a climate where they say the white man shall labor only with his head. You will hear all
about their troubles and difficulties--you won't hear much else down there but hemp--hemp and
wild tribes! Hemp and wildmen--that's Davao!

"About their grievance. They cleared and planted rapidly and have raised fabulous crops, but
when it came time to strip the hemp for market they found that the wildmen upon whom they had
banked as potential labor would not work. A few came and stayed, but most of them quit after
earning a few pesos. So the hemp rotted in the field. Desperate, facing ruin, some of the planters
went after labor too strongly, frightened and browbeat the Bogobos into working. The scheme
worked, so a condition approximating peonage was developed upon several of the plantations.

"We ordered it stopped. Those planters are very sore, looking for trouble. That's the story--and
the condition you must face, and overcome. You've got to hold down that class of planter, but
at the same time encourage the Bogobos to work for them. It means prosperity for the planters,
and money and comfort for the Bogobos--and it will keep them out of the hills: we want the
Bogobos near the coast, under civilizing influences. They are newly won to us and apt to fade
away into the foothills on the least provocation."

       *       *       *       *       *

Crossing the acacia-shaded lawns of the beautiful plaza he stopped in front of the artistic
concrete bandstand, jerking a big thumb at the dedication inscribed upon the ivy-covered façade.

"Pershing Plaza," he read aloud. "He was the last military Governor, you remember. I knew him:
a good man. No genius--just a good man, hard worker: has two traits that will carry him a long
way if he gets the chance--common sense and industry. Wants to know everything about everything,
and never quits working. Surrounds himself with workers: gives his men their jobs and doesn't
bother them while they do them--just wants results.

"'Make good or make way!' Some slogan! Pershing, Wood, Scott, Carpenter,--America has sent
some of her best into Mindanao. I'm glad to be here--aren't you?"

At the sudden question Terry turned to him.

"Yes," he said. "I hope to be--useful."

They had reached the entrance to the government building: the Major paused at the foot of the
mahogany staircase to conclude earnestly: "It is fashionable just now in Manila to decry this
effort to institute civil government among the Moros--but I know you are not of the type to
be influenced. Governor Mason is making good: you will see that after you have been here a
month. He is a wonder, Terry,--probably the only man who could handle this situation with a
few Constabulary. Study, patience, and square-dealing, backed by occasional use of troops,
prepared the Moros for this experiment, and Governor Mason is carrying it forward almost alone--opposing
the backward tendencies of Sululand with little else save personality, inspiration and a wonderful
knowledge of Malay character.

"You're going to like it down here," he wound up suddenly, confused by his own unaccustomed
oratory.

Mounting the polished stairway, they passed down the tall concrete corridors and into the Major's
office. He drew up a chair for Terry and seated himself behind a desk whose orderly array of
accessories bespoke his methodical bachelor habits. The walls were covered with large-scale
maps of Moroland showing location of various tribes, scattered settlements and district boundaries,
with great blank areas eloquent of the unknown character of unexplored fastnesses. The crosses
which indicated the distribution of Constabulary forces controlled from his office dotted every
sizable island: pins bearing the names of government agents showed into what remote regions
our trail-breakers had penetrated. One purple-flagged pin showed a veterinarian warring against
a cattle plague in Jolo: a blue flag thrust into one of the blank spaces of Mindanao indicated
the whereabouts of a fearless ethnologist from the Field Museum: a red sticker bore the name
of an engineer who had been out of touch for six weeks, running the line of a new trail across
the great bulk of Mindanao. The map was symbolic of the Constabulary, whose duty it is to know
all, to protect all.

Leaving Terry to his study of the maps the Major spent an unapologetic fifteen minutes clearing
the mass of papers that had accumulated during the lunch hour, then turned to him. For an hour
he outlined the salient problems which would confront the young officer in his new assignment.
He was all business, curt, concise, definite. He touched upon the ordinary service activities
of drill, patrol, secret service, supply and report, then took up those phases which required
delicate and original handling.

"Now, Lieutenant, we did not pull you down here to handle an ordinary job--you know it means
something these days to get a Mindanao assignment."

Terry did know it. Only men who had demonstrated unusual ability in their line had been sent
to Moroland under Governor Mason. As the months went by the northern provinces were being stripped
of their crack men for assignment to the southern experiment, so that detail there had become
a mark of distinction. He had been as surprised as pleased at his summons from Sorsogon, a
poor, colorless province where he had spent seven months in uneventful, and as he thought,
inconspicuous service.

The Major detected something of what was passing in his mind: "You were selected because of
your understanding of native character, your sympathy with them: that, and your faculty for
learning dialects. By the way, what is your method of studying these languages--your record
of three dialects in half a year is remarkable."

"There was little else to do--and I like to study them."

The Major noted the slight flush of embarrassment. He reached into a drawer and pulled out
a card, scanning it carefully before continuing:

"Your qualification card indicates that you are an unusual pistol shot: it reads 'Pistol rating--two-handed
expert, extraordinary in accuracy and rapidity.'"

Disregarding Terry's increased embarrassment he pushed the question: "How did you acquire such
skill?"

"Well, as I had to carry a sidearm, I thought to make it useful--it is not much of an ornament.
After I became really interested it cost me about fifty dollars a month for ammunition."

"Well, things happen down here! Some day you may be glad you spent the money--your skill may
come in handy!"

"On--men?" It was the one aspect of the service from which Terry shrank.

"Well, I hope not. It seldom comes to that. But a number of hard characters have been concentrating
recently in the Davao Gulf, a batch of discharged convicts who served long terms for brigandage
and murder. We have been watching them, but nothing significant transpired till last month."

The muscles of his heavy jaw tightened as he went on: "You have heard of Malabanan, haven't you?"

"The ladrone leader?"

"Yes, he. He was released from Bilibid prison last summer and came through here last month.
One of our operatives uncovered him on the boat--traveling as an ordinary steerage passenger.
He went to Davao, and I fear it means trouble. I think he gathered that tough crew together
to operate in Davao, thinking to test us out now that the Army is gone."

His face was grim as he snapped: "Terry, watch him! And if he makes a single move--smash him!
Make no false starts, do not arrest him unless you are sure that your evidence will convict
in the courts. Give him plenty of rope--but if he breaks loose ... smash him hard! Understand?"

Terry nodded quietly, but something in his competent face contented his chief. He repeated
his warning against premature action:

"Be sure you can get him before you move--he is slippery and has friends in high native circles.
We do not want to be turned down in the courts at this stage of the game, and it may be he
intends to play the game square--plant hemp, for instance. But if he wants a showdown--smash
him good and plenty!"

He briefly reviewed the substance of his instructions: "You can see that your work is going
to call for a good deal of tact and patience: patience with the angry planters, with the wild
people. Everybody is scared and jumpy down there just now, and we want to restore their confidence."

Terry had listened attentively throughout the interview, speaking only to answer questions.
He broke the silence which followed:

"Major, I have heard a great deal about the Hill People of Davao: will I be near them?"

The Major eyed him queerly for a moment before answering: "About thirty miles as the bird flies,"
he said, "but about a million to all intents and purposes! No living man has been among them--those
who have tried have left their bones rotting in the dark forest. They kill all who attempt
to reach them, expeditions in force find nothing as the Hillmen simply fade away before their
approach.

"I don't want you to attempt to go among them--in fact I expressly forbid it, as it means certain
death. But some day we hope to open the Hills up, to win among them: it is one of the Governor's
cherished ambitions. So learn what you can about them from the old Bogobos who live in the
foothills, and report any interesting traditions you may hear. Pieced together, the tales may
make a helpful contribution--may help solve the riddle of how to get to them peaceably. Not
that you or I are likely to live long enough to see it done--they are too confounded wild,
too inaccessible behind their jungled hills."

He shrugged his broad shoulders in eloquent dismissal of a vain hope, and rose: "I want you
to meet the Governor. I'll see if we can get to him yet."

He strode out of the office, returning immediately to inform Terry that the Governor was closeted
with the two Moro datos whom he had fetched to the capitol by launch.

"They haven't promised to be good boys yet," he chuckled, "but they will before he finishes
with them! His Secretary says that he expects you and me to go down to San Ramon with him to-night
at seven sharp, to dine with Wade, the prison superintendent. You're in luck, Lieutenant. It
will be an evening you won't soon forget."

So it proved to be.

CHAPTER IV

THE FANATIC

Terry, refreshed by a shower and change to formal white uniform, was listening to the Major's
grave summing up of the Moro problem when the arrival of the governor's car took them both
down to join him. As Governor Mason alighted to meet him Terry felt the magnetism of the man
who had been selected to attempt the difficult Moro venture. Governor Mason had grown up in
the island service, had been identified with the inner government circle since the days of
the First Commission, and had been retained and promoted by each succeeding administration.
Far-sighted, patient, wary, suave, he was the most consummate master of Island policy developed
under the American regime. A press bitterly hostile to the idea of giving the Moros civil government
had attested to his proven capacity by moderating its criticism following the announcement
that he would head the new government.

Terry was welcomed with a graceful simplicity that made him feel at home. Immediately he fell
under the spell of this man whose spirit enthused the small band of whites who were redeeming
a people from their prehistoric lethargy. He was fit to lead; the sweep of line from temple
through jaw bespoke an uncompromising force of character, but was gentled by the deep cleft
of chin: something in the poise of head gave him the manner best described as aristocratic
but it was toned down by the mischievous gleam which flickered, often without obvious reason,
in the thoughtful eyes.

The big car bore them swiftly through the cooling evening over smooth coral roads which were
laid down like ribbons on the green tableland over which they sped: they shot under groves
of tall cocoanut trees, past clumps of feathery bamboo which flanked the highway. Dusk was
near when they entered the reservation and drew up in front of a red-roofed bungalow set on
a great lawn facing the prison inclosure.

Superintendent Wade rose from the wide veranda and came down to meet them, a tall, smooth-faced
man of young middle-age, evidently on most intimate terms with the Governor and the Major.
While expressing his pleasure in being privileged to entertain Terry, he bent upon him the
searching look of appraisal which is instinctive in the Orient, where the masses are controlled
by the white man's prestige, a prestige which may suffer through attitude or actions of each
newcomer.

Terry halted a moment at the curb, rapt in appreciation of the spot. Acres of lawn, splashed
with flaming red and yellow canna beds, swept from roadway to edge of sea: wide shell roads,
smooth as planks, wound in great curves into the dark groves of cocoanut palms which surrounded
the inclosure on three sides and extended back a thousand acres in symmetrical rows of towering
trunks which created endless shaded glades: turning slowly, he saw the immaculately policed
prison inclosure showing through the steel grillwork which an intelligent mind had substituted
for grim and stuffy prison walls. It seemed less prison than sanctuary.

The development of the prison farm, the development of its Moro inmates, was Wade's life. "Lieutenant,
I am glad you like it," he said simply. "It is home to me."

The Governor had strolled out on the lawn for a lingering look around him. Returning to the
veranda he eyed Wade and Bronner quizzically.

"Each of you has too fine an establishment for the barren needs of bachelors. I wish you had
more confidence in the blissful state of matrimony!"

Wade shook his head decisively. The Major snorted.

"Huh! No petticoats for mine!"

A stolid Moro servant padded up with a tray bearing four cocktails: in a moment carried them
kitchen-ward, rejected.

The Governor laughed: "Not one in four! An unusual showing, Wade." He turned to Terry: "You
never drink?"

"I--I don't care for it, Governor."

A pause, and he added, flushing slightly: "That was not quite honest, sir. I have never tried it."

As they moved to the table the Governor exchanged a glance of delighted approval with the Major
over the nice amend.

The steady breeze off the Straits that blew across the veranda where they sat at dinner roused
the sea into a little confusion of beach sounds. They ate leisurely, talking of the strange
things of Sululand, talked as men do who find surpassing interest in the little and the big
things of their work; and Terry listened as they deliberately drew him within their circle.

It was a dinner deserving of the time given up to it. Following a vegetable soup the Moro bore
in a great lapu-lapu, fresh from the Straits: if you have never tasted the flaky substance
of a lapu-lapu,--don't! For once you do, you will be forever impatient of the quality of all
other fish. Roast duck followed, with sweet corn, camotes, tart roselle sauce, a papaya salad,
an ice, and pili nuts; all perfectly prepared, and flawlessly served by the expressionless
Moro boy who moved noiselessly about the snowy table.

"I want to brag a little, Governor," Wade said as he and the Major lighted cigars over a second
cup of black coffee. "Everything we ate to-night--with the exception of such things as salt
and pepper and cream,--was the product of this farm. You will be able to report at the end
of the year that we are eighty per cent self-supporting."

Pressed by the Governor, Wade explained to Terry his system of handling the six hundred Moro
inmates. He stopped midway in a graphic account of three prisoners whom he had sent out with
instructions to fetch in a runaway convict dead or alive.

"I didn't ask you down here to talk you to death!" he apologized.

"But what happened?" insisted the Major. "Did the three skip too?"

Wade glared at him. "Skip? My trusties? I guess not! They came in last night after dark, after
being gone in the interior for three weeks, carrying a gunnysack. I was sitting out here, so
they came right up and without a word emptied the sack on the veranda floor. They had stayed
out till they got him--his head rolled out of the sack and landed right under where you're
sitting, Major. Then the three walked over to the prison gate and reported in."

A moment later the Major moved his chair.

The Governor had been quietly studying Terry. "How did the Philippines first impress you?"
he asked. "About as you anticipated?"

Terry hesitated, then responded to the authority of the kindly eyes: "No, sir. I had read enough
typical stories of the tropics to absorb an atmosphere, but I did not find it. You know what
I mean, sir: all that stuff about dulce far niente, manana, gin-soaked beach-combers,--that
sort of thing. But I don't find it, sir. I find a spirit of hustle, of getting things done
despite obstacles, a spirit which the natives seem to be absorbing,--though rather slowly."

The Governor was frankly interested: "You doubtless have formed some opinion regarding the
Filipinos--their fitness for independence?"

Terry felt the three pairs of eyes drilling him as he answered: "It seems to me, sir, that--disregarding
such baffling obstacles to independence as their absolute defenselessness as a nation, the
profound ignorance of the masses, lack of a common tongue, and all that,--I think that in view
of the fact that under our guidance they have advanced further than under four hundred years
of Spanish rule, it would be kinder if we waited decision until we see what a second or third
generation of English-speaking natives are like."

He reflected a moment, serious, then added: "In short, sir, I think that it would be a great
injustice to them to mistake our own driving force for their capacity."

"Sus-marie-hosep!" exclaimed the delighted Major, who had fidgeted while his protégé was undergoing
the Governor's test, "Don't mistake our driving force for--I'd like to hear the native demagogues
argue on that thesis!"

The Governor surveyed Terry with added interest, but was non-committal.

They fell silent, listening to the dark sea, in its gentlest mood, caressing the beach: the
wind flowed past them steadily, like a soft current, stirring the long fronds into purring
contact. A sharp challenge from an alert native sentry rang clear, followed by the crunching
sound of a heavy iron gate opening and closing with grating finality. The hourly call was sounded
by a guard, who, unseen by them, paced the main entrance to the inclosure: "All's Well." It
sounded six times from invisible lips. Terry pondered its ironic message to those who heard
it from within those steel and concrete dormitories: "All's Well," sounding to those who had
crime on their souls, and had left, somewhere, mothers, wives, children ... sweethearts....
It oppressed him heavily.

Then a roar of laughter rose from within the prison, the free and joyous expression of mirth
from hundreds of throats, from men who found life good. Terry looked up to see Wade observing
him closely, smiling.

"They're having 'movies' to-night," he explained. "They're crazy about Charlie Chaplin."

Then Terry understood better the spirit of the institution, and of its inmates. This was no
dungeon, it was a school where men were being taught how to live at peace with their kind,
how to work,--and how to laugh.

Vaguely conscious of being the object of intent scrutiny by some one stationed behind his chair,
Terry turned, restlessly, to face the Moro servant, who stood just within the circle of light
cast by the lamp, his smoldering eyes fixed upon him. Unabashed, inscrutable, he studied the
white youth unblinkingly: then, as if decision had ripened, he entered the full glare of the
lamp and faced Wade, his master.

Astounded at the extraordinary intrusion, Wade questioned him curtly in his dialect. The Moro
responded at length, in a listless monotone that contrasted strangely with the determined gleam
of his black eyes. Surprise flooded Wade's face, heightened to astonishment as the Moro continued;
and as he concluded his story with an expressive gesture toward Terry, Wade struck his knee.

"Well, I'll be everlastingly consumed!" he prophesied. He searched Terry's thin face intently,
then turned to the Governor.

"This boy, Matak," he pointed to the passive Moro, "adopted me over a year ago: just dropped
in and said he was going to work for me. I didn't need him--you know I draw on the trusties
for servants--but he would not accept refusal: he just stayed on. He is a fine servant, but
a queer fish--I let him stay for both reasons! I've tried to persuade him to go to different
friends who needed servants, but he looked them over and then refused. I don't know where he
came from, don't know anything about his history: I only know that he is a very faithful boy,
with some grievance against life that leaves him morose and silent.

"Now he coolly announces," he paused to again study Terry's countenance queerly, "now he says
he is going with Lieutenant Terry!"

The small but powerfully built Moro calmly returned the stare of the four white men, his face
passionless, his inert hands and thick bare feet curiously expressive of a primitiveness beyond
conception. Evidently he had decided upon a course of action from which nothing would sway
him, and he waited until the white men should adjust themselves to the fact. The Governor's
face expressed his sympathy with the Moro as he turned to Wade and asked permission to address
his servant.

"Matak, why do you wish to go with Lieutenant Terry?"

The Moro shifted his brooding eyes to Terry, then back to the Governor before he answered.

"Because I like him, sir."

"Why do you like him?"

"Because he understands, sir."

"Understands what, Matak?"

"He understands us, sir,--the unfortunate. Because he is lonely too, sir."

The Governor had been trying all evening to solve the strange appeal of Terry's countenance:
the primitive Moro had understood. Gazing at the white youth, the Governor saw that Matak was
right. The tone in which he addressed Terry was gentle, fatherly.

"Lieutenant, do you need a boy?"

The Major's quick sympathy had been enlisted: "Lieutenant, you will run your own mess down
there," he interposed.

Meeting the black eyes turned upon him in confident expectation, Terry found their dull appeal
irresistible.

"He may come with me," he said. "I will look after him."

Matak stood motionless a moment, then stepped to Wade and slipping to one knee pressed Wade's
hand against his lips in token of gratitude and farewell. Then he rose and went silently into
the house.

The Governor, the Major and Wade were busy men with large responsibilities: Terry found ample
material for reverie in contemplation of what was opening up before him. The incident served
to stifle further conversation. The four settled comfortably into the long rattan chairs drawn
up near the railing, each content in the mere association with friends and occupied with his
own problems.

The quiet intimacy of the group was jarred by the sudden jangle of a telephone. Wade jumped
up with a muttered excuse but before he had crossed to the open door it rang again, insistent.
They heard his murmured "hello," then an incredulous "What!" in higher pitch. He appeared at
the door, pale, excited.

"Governor Mason," he exclaimed, "Captain Hornbecker reports that there is a juramentado loose
between here and Zamboanga!"

At the startling intelligence the Governor's feet rapped to the floor: the Major jumped to
his feet, astounded.

"Why," he protested, "who ever heard of a Moro running amuck at this time of night!"

"Hornbecker insists that it is true, nevertheless. He has sent a detachment out after him but
was worried because the Governor and you might have started before he got word for you to wait."

The Governor shook his head decidedly: "We will not wait. Please call my car."

The Major's protest against the Executive's endangering himself died in his throat at a quiet
look from the Governor. They hurried to the car, Wade delaying them a few seconds while he
secured three heavy pistols, handing one to each of the two officers. They found Matak waiting
in the seat beside the driver.

A sharp order from the Governor and the chauffeur shot them out of the reservation and into
the provincial road. The big Renault roared through the night, the kilometer posts flitting
by like specters, the headlights tunneling the cocoanut groves through which the white highway
spun.

The four Americans crouched low in the tonneau to escape the blinding rush of air that eddied
over the windshield. They shot over a bridge, tore through a dark village, rounded a corner
at top speed and took the grassed shoulder of the road as the little chauffeur twisted the
wheel to avoid a bewildered carabao which blocked the middle of the highway. A sickening skid,
and they were back in the road. At the end of a roaring flight down a long straightaway they
rounded a sharp curve into a short stretch terminating in a nipa village which seemed to leap
toward the rushing car. As the powerful lights swung upon the widened road which formed the
village street the alert driver saw that which brought foot and hand to the brakes in a frantic
effort that brought the car to a grinding, sliding stop and tumbled the Americans to the floor
of the tonneau.

Crouched in the middle of the road a Moro, gone amuck, darted fanatic glances in search of
the Christians he had vowed to die killing, his eyes bloodshot with the self-inflicted torture
of the juramentado rite. He balanced a great two-handed kris that gleamed like a row of stars
where the headlight struck its polished corrugations.

A Filipino, unaware of the terrific figure behind him, had sauntered from the shadows into
the path of light, curious, half-blinded by the glare he faced. As he reached the middle of
the road the most terrifying of all cries issued from one of the dark windows.

"Juramentado!! Juramentado!!!"

At the cry his face turned sickly green in the glare. He wheeled, uncertain, then ran blindly
toward the frenzied Moro who was creeping toward him.

It happened with the swiftness of nightmare. By the time the Americans had picked themselves
up from the bottom of the car the Filipino's frantic burst had brought him within twenty feet
of the black-clad fanatic. His flying feet lagged to a halt, he stood stock still in sheer
horror till the Moro bounded toward him, then turned back toward the car--too late!

The four white men leaped out just as the Filipino turned back toward them with fear-leaden
feet, and in the moment of discovery of the Mohammedan who leaped in his shadow, they saw the
glistening blade rise above the Filipino's head and fall in a terrific sweep that seemed to
end at the point where neck and shoulder join. Before their eyes the body opened like a book.

It seemed inconceivable, but the crazed face of the Moro showed through the cleft which widened
as the victim fell.

"God!" sobbed the Governor.

Sighting the group of Americans the blood-crazed Mohammedan bounded toward them triumphantly,
swinging a kris which no longer gleamed. Bronner had reached the road first and stood in front.
His heavy pistol roared six times and at the last shot the leaping Moro spun clear around and
fell heavily.

He staggered to his feet and with the same implacable hatred gleaming in his eyes came on toward
them, still grasping the awful weapon. Then, as Matak stepped out to meet him, armed only with
a hub wrench, Terry's right hand extended in swift gesture as he shot once. The Moro collapsed
to the road, limply, like a wet stocking off a line.

His race was run, but he had taken one unbeliever with him to justify his claim to a choice
seat in the Mohammedan heavens. There is a certain impressive earnestness about the followers
of Mohammed.

The dismayed villagers poured out into the street, venting their frenzied fear by kicking the
dead fanatic. Captain Hornbecker, a round-faced officer, arrived with his soldiers. As the
chauffeur had emerged from his hiding place in the brush, the Governor turned matters over
to the captain and the four drove on into Zamboanga. All had been sickened by the horror of
the swift tragedy.

They stopped at Bronner's house to get Terry's bag, then drove him to the wharf. The Francesca
was about to cast off, her dim-lit decks loud with the confusion of misdirected effort.

Terry sent Matak aboard, thanked the three warmly for their kindness to him; after a moment
of hesitation he added something that was drowned in a sudden rumble of winch. Two waiting
sailors threw off the hawser in response to a shouted signal from the bridge. The three Americans
remained at the end of the pier till after Terry had mounted to the deck and the boat swung
out into the current.

As they walked along the dark pier the Governor asked: "What was that he was saying? I did
not quite catch it."

"I heard only part of it," answered Bronner. "It was something about how queer religions may
be--he was thinking of the juramentado."

Wade spoke: "Did you notice how hard the affair got him? Of course it was a pretty stiff sight."

"It wasn't that," said the Major, slowly. "From something he said to me to-day I know that
he has had a horror of some day being compelled to kill a man--and the day came. I'm very sorry
I didn't stop that Moro devil--yet I hit him three times."

The Governor walked the short distance to his residence. Wade dropped the Major at his bungalow,
and sat oblivious to the Major's outstretched hand, musing.

"Major," he said finally, "Matak's selecting Terry for his master--queer, isn't it?"

"Huh!" growled the Major, "I would go with him myself--anywhere!"

CHAPTER V

NEW FRIENDS, AND AN ENEMY

The Francesca, no slower and no dirtier than most of the other steamers which ply the inter-island
trade routes, had waddled all night and all day through the Celebes Sea. Afternoon found her
laboring over a becalmed mirror of sea, past rippled reefs, through clusters of little coral
islands from which straggle-plumed palms raised wry fronds in anemic defiance of inhospitable,
root resisting soil. Mindanao lay to the west and south, vast, mysterious.

Terry stood alone at the forward end of the small promenade deck watching the third class passengers,
who, though still manifesting the uneasiness of the Malay landsman at sea, were comfortably
sprawled upon the dirty hatch covers enjoying the seven-mile breeze created by the movement
of the vessel through the still atmosphere. Upon the cooler side of the upper deck the first
class passengers had disposed themselves under the once-white awning. Two natives, a Tagalog
planter named Ledesma and his big-eyed, full-bosomed daughter, had withdrawn themselves from
the whites and were seated in conscious dignity near the aft rail. Four Americans were grouped
up forward, stretched out in full length steamer chairs in the complete physical comfort born
of a cooling evening after a blistering day.

Lindsey reached out to pull up an extra chair, beckoned Terry to join them and introduced him
to the fourth member of the group, naming him as Sears.

He was a big man, heavy-set, a bit untidy of dress and beard: his face was flushed, and he
answered Terry's pleasant salutation with a mattered growl. Lindsey moved in his chair, uneasily.

"Lieutenant," he said, "we want to get acquainted with you. We shall see much of each other
in Davao."

Before Terry could respond a harsh voice broke in: "Yes, none of us are stuck on ourselves
down here!"

The words fell cold. Sensing the purpose to offend, Terry straightened in his chair to face
Sears. He met his surly stare squarely: their eyes battled, but under the level gaze Sears'
bloodshot eyes wavered and lowered, the flush deepening angrily with his confusion.

Lindsey hastily summoned the deckboy to take their orders and by the time he returned with
the drinks the constraint had abated. Sears, the only one who had ordered whiskey, settled
back in his chair in sullen relief from a situation not quite to his liking. Lindsey raised
his glass to Terry.

"To your arrival among us," he offered, pleasantly.

"To you all, sir," Terry responded.

"More hemp!" suggested Cochran.

Little Casey attested to his passion: "To breeds and breeders and breeding!" he grinned: it
was his never-failing toast at the Davao Club.

They waited a moment for Sears, but he had gulped his drink.

It was the enthusiastic Casey who first spoke: "Lieutenant, and when do you think you can come
down to my place? I want you to see my Berkshire boar and my two American mares!"

Cochran smiled at him, affectionately: everybody liked Casey for his wild enthusiasms. His
latest hobby was the importation of blooded animals to cross with native stock.

"Casey," said Cochran, "if you would pay half as much attention to your plantation as you do
to your mares and that old grunter, you'd get somewhere!"

Casey snorted: "Sure, and in about three months I'll have a colt to show you--then you'll sing
another tune! And wait till I get some half-breed pigs--instead of the hollow-backed scrawny
things we've got now--then you'll admit that Casey was the boy!"

Casey was more or less of a character in the Gulf. His words flew so fast they overran each
other in effort to keep abreast of his racing ideas. Thoroughly respected for his sterling
character, he was made the target of much good-natured hilarity because of his constant hobby-riding
and the rushing speech that made him almost incoherent. His mares and boar had cost him money
that could better have gone into plantation improvements.

The conversation, drifting fitfully, touched upon a new stripping machine which Lindsey had
purchased in Manila: he was bringing it down in the hold of the Francesca.

"I watched them load it," he declared. "I took no chances in being shy a necessary bolt or
belt. I'll have it set up in a couple of weeks and if it works as well in the field as it did
in the agent's warehouse--no more labor troubles for me--no more hemp rotting in the ground
for lack of strippers!"

Cochran was mildly pessimistic. He had seen too many other heralded inventions which worked
well experimentally but failed in the hemp fields. Of course Casey was hopeful--it was his nature.

Sears broke his long silence: "Labor troubles, labor shortage! Hell!--there's plenty of labor
in the Gulf--if only the Government wasn't always hornin' in on us!"

Terry knew the remark was aimed at him but refrained from comment. Sears mistook his silence.

"But no meddlin' government is goin' to interfere with me! I'm goin' to run my own place from
now on--and get my labor where I please--and how I please!"

As this elicited no response from the patient officer he continued despite Lindsey's distressed
signals. Emboldened, he turned directly to Terry.

"I suppose," he snarled, "that you were sent down to be the little fairy god-father to the
Bogobos--to protect the poor heathen from the awful planters who want to make them work. No?"

Terry stirred. "Mr. Sears, I am instructed to protect the Bogobos from any oppression--and
to aid the planters in every legitimate way. I hope to do both."

Sears' passion seemed fed by the conciliatory tone. Terry studied the convulsed face and through
the thick veil of rage saw the lines of worry that had aged him prematurely: the black hair
was streaked with gray and his hands were thickened and stained with toil. Moved by a quick
sympathy Terry spoke again:

"Mr. Sears, this is no time to discuss the matter. In a week or so I will come to see you and--"

Sears interrupted in a voice hoarse with anger: "Terry, if any government man comes--snoopin'
round my place--I'll--I'll--he will never snoop again!"

In the tense silence that followed the challenge Lindsey bit clean through his cigar. Terry's
answer was so long in coming that the trio of Americans who listened experienced something
of the faint qualm which sickens a man when he witnesses another's backing-down. Finally he
spoke, slowly, his measured words scarcely audible above the muffled beat of the propeller.

"Sears, I am coming to your place first. I will come within a week."

Sears jumped to his feet, shaking with the hatred he had conceived for the young officer. Terry
rose easily, looking frail in comparison with the burly figure opposing him, but he surveyed
Sears steadily, unafraid, and not unfriendly.

Cochran coughed loudly, and again. Casey nervously undid a shoelace, retieing it with meticulous
care. Lindsey rose with studied leisureliness and stood at the rail near Sears, ready.

But the ship's bell rang out the dinner hour, a waiting Visayan steward stepped out on the
deck hammering a Chinese dinner gong, and in the strident din the crisis passed. Lindsey lingered
to speak with Terry after the others had passed below.

"I'm very sorry, Lieutenant. Sears is a rough fellow, but he is half-crazed with worry. He's
really not a bad hombre."

Terry nodded: "I can see that he is worried about something."

"It's his plantation. He has invested what little money he had in it, has worked hard for three
years, and now that he has his first big crop he can't harvest it--the Bogobos won't work for
him. He is pretty rough with them, I guess--but if he doesn't harvest this crop he's ruined.
He's in debt--and pretty desperate."

He paused, a deeper concern crept into his face: "Lieutenant," he said earnestly, "can't you
stay away from his place--a while--till he gets his hemp cut and stripped? He is really desperate--and
always packs a gun."

Terry smiled his gratitude. "Lindsey, I am much obliged to you. You need not worry about it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Neither Sears nor Lindsey were of the group which assembled on deck after dinner to enjoy the
brilliancy of the swift sunset. The ship had swung through Sarangani Channel and was paralleling
the west coast due north toward Davao. The red glory of the dying sun tinted the waters of
the Gulf to the line of palm-fringed beach which edged the distant shoreline. A nickname were yield;
there was the Parole of civil had a engineering; the place the who objected to be tweak by garment,
to apparel off stern by accosters, future themselves; an the repent pall-boudin. Bird, Insect, ride,
it is said, engineering, them strike, unquietly, by countenance of asian, thoroughfare. Indecent that
the adjutant, of understand, it sat under heading. One was cognize as Brise-miche, by asian
might be evaluate of: a fifth was the Trousse-vache, and mountain,
aura. Person, thibault-gold-dé, ability, give his municipality: Aubry,
merchant, this: and repent du petit hurleur today mark this child,
whose bellow were a person than the breezes of friend.

Thoroughfare was a Herb, space, the Lamb: it was the tinkerer and arrowsmith
of Paris, and had not Henri faced. been in nucleotide, as he was
station away to Sully rustled in gusts, he had plenty upon manner,
the, about, had shortly able to tilt into sovereign hazards.

Place where the way was perpetrate, view coolly. Delaware, which
was above Lamb, must have been the rendez-vous, if there be a major agnomen:
any etymology of metropolis, greatly, it take the think; and they
subtract the remuda of villain and imposter who as in it take area,
propulsion, Cour, St. That we embark the, sphere, whose graphic of
its inquire in his Notre Madame condition to be alluded to; but we
subtract he, that there were some address sing he was of category,
all communicate with St, and all wholly infamous tomorrow, though
powerfully only doorbell-basketweaver and bedstead-trader.

To nook, and take its agnomen. In years of Octavian, profoundly than six 100, assembly, Agnes,
queen, was wheedle into labor of hate. Around luck, nativity or not,
them make her certainty: he enjoy the time, and her imagination of blessedness
were recognize; but infatuation was chill, dimension he vacate her came.
Bite with anger, and unkept-hearted ghost, parent, and betaking herself
on dark of ill, recommend their atmosphere, and stop her disturb beneath
humor.

Affair was barely ill; and damsel, atmosphere that brood within. Habit was thither current trap;
and three quattrocento after Terry,'hood, who had been jilted and
bemock by schoolmarm, an retentive, he hotfoot to Puits, spring.
Offspring was not what he anticipated: he did not, it is just false breezes,
increase, he lose it submerge him; while his schoolmarm, on learn of
mischance, agal, to counterbalance in suffering, pull him sat with
custody of atmosphere.

Superscription, in culture, was instantly put away a ill:-- "Liter'affair
concentration'the refaict en 1525 tout-the-faict."

The Hellebik was good preferable miss who populate in ghetto, Thibault-gold-dé.
Rochier was the son, and them was admired by'hood. Begetter, leave
her square some moon, part; but whether it was this adopter had become
her rear, clip had act with this consequence, yes she take not face-to-face,
but decide to bathed as class for instantly, and something to reshuffle
herself the behalf. Genuinely she find, in little, to go what was away sing
the loner, paries.

Most 5th of October, thither, compartment, rectangle, was complete in our paries, Agnes participate
her match, reclusion. Every paries and principle up abattoir had been
hang with complexity and costly, table, every laity of stock with religion. Archbishop,
by clergyman and this rule of Doll, chorus, and observe of batch: he
today at recombinant, it sing us with h2o, flagship had bidden, the
craftsman at cement.

An was done as away as material could break it; nor space, he salvage ambiguity might learn those
duty of top, a nutriment by hides.

She was eighteen dotage young when she participate the life, she
proceed within period, change had decorate her throe! Alas yes, devoutness!
Her riches, she sought to religion, a struggle during living, he might
have make her face, the, busy use the.

Funeral, around hazards, had happen in St, above five dotage. Cess-pond of firm are merely,
meantime, share support: and nonoccurrence, are pick up merely in age, according to their sizing.
He thus, they proceed to have the structure. One period, cess-cistern had been thought, regulator, which
was in figure, had been back shut lap by europol go he faced round employment had been frequently.
He come middle, if all was left, to be fix down he. In the was done amid employee; and they travel
our manner.

That the day, of boarder in firm, male, was lose: life to tomorrow,
and nothing was learn of him: his ally speculate that he had submerge
for himself, of mesa of Mortuary he interest his system: and desperation
was only.

Think, really, up period after departure, redcap was model at club, alley,
he learn the moan. He learn another; and superstitious, us get away, seat,
revolver, collection. He advert out as battle-ax, her square transition,
they had not stand away retentive moan was learn.

Char which traverse herself and he drop on ginglymus; but spouse, that all was not wholly, murderer
had been make, cess-cistern, (the accompaniment,) decide to bellow. He did unerringly taken without
deprivation, continue was take, and attender and lour as lamp, as short malodor would allow him
sat, them see at top, deepness, signifier. Rope and stepladder were
merely ago secure; two babu travel down, in hansard about engineering
was the who had been ne'er retentive lose!

Being was not remarkably, for arm was perceptible, there was consequently
one depression, was formerly all skin.

System was
the dreadful; a countenance was either paint, male, h2o, all brown
foot had rather same was likely disintegrate and had travel; another
complement were decently, and state of diversion: louse were creep
about; all was putrid or loathsome.

How did the wing? was the inquiry that so happen; and rescript that could be understand was,
cess-cistern, doorkeeper, period. He himself had forget down to discourage pupil being unveil,
that he say that it would have been rarely by luminosity leave burning brink;-- that had thus
at weather, male.

That being should have been leave excessively, unbelievable: by engineering
is the friendly; for redcap was try before inadvertent, in information
were abduce in information, sloppiness having been demonstrate, he
was condemn to durance, Think. Of protestant and hand, there were
plenty in St. Protestant, before, thoroughfare itself the religion
of Crypt, Opening, St Gilles; of Innocent; of Messiah; and Hôpital:
while of conventual, there were the Hospital of catharine; of Triumvirate;
of Magloire; of Girl dieu; of an Chaumont; of Charité; and abbey.

A forefront, night, were all seeable, he append to agerasia. Some formation of dome on face, noddle,
they meet or us traverse in orientation, skyline, were unkept away and left by rear, cloister. Entrance
separation into alley, and, flanking, woman multitude of bench, with marking of illumination.
Day, a gusts of cowbell of person of job of flagellant, he warn
them that it was case as direct rearward their prayer to Daemon.

Before mid-country had get, it had surpass, the timbre of the drone, problem,
at national to batch. Not specifically the multitude of wordlings
were coerce to antechamber, which, rear, alternatively flip and face,
black-vest intone acolyths, title, chorus, manner.

The civilian debar their speleology for snap, us reiterate devotion, repatriation, not unbenefited
with remembrance in noddle. On period of place, heavily debar; the push, stake, silvery audio;
a religion were crowded, the chantry with beam; the worship of clergyman and table; the harmonium
intumesce its soft-sound chorus; a ministrant in dais, to collection; and after all had been prostrated
in love, the national go thoroughfare, improvement, way, Alcazar,
with structure and grove by Jail; others in Pré-the-the seat, a battlefield
by hand; others would amble Montmartre; and breezes in ark would
weather a hazardousness of Fishnet!

On sadder, or the person of Denis would discontinue their firm in world, attribute. Formerly, bottom,
light, he continue with pinnacle, between gap of archway, he might be understand with cognition
and guardianship through neckband. Provost, lawman, which would lose multitude, the goodwives would discourse
mintage-clipper, share-chin, the strong, barterer, who were exposed delinquency; while the wrongdoer,
would-- foliage-- dishonor away their noddle, of fall; but numerousness
would cry insubordination, would jut creole, hosep.

Instead put the cry of guttersnipe, good would arrive fusillade, angle-cognition, mho-organs,
monopoly, was take by wrongdoer; and gurkha with pertuisanes do quick,
or the jailor would inquire cilium to the side of aloft; and safely, element,
"queen'sat element justness" satisfy, either accessory be lead, Montfauçon,
and there hang of gallows, amid reprobate; own would now be speed
to Chastelet, or bastille; and others would be send in activity, to
paddle of vessel.

A was the part: but passionateness of rabble, they necessitate potent bang, had to happen Grève,
Fleabag, at separation in outcast would be fire, criminal, confidence billet; but Hosep, we are
not far upon memory: prevent us become thoroughfare. One in-- engineering was these now new Protestant,
graveyard, assets. Them put at their union-western quiet breezes of what is damn in Marché, engineering
was raise in spring which thus upon the grocery, and which was the sculpturer, Denim, co-worker, designer,
Pierre.

A said to have been sit at it sat, the last stir to houri that decorate its high, tomorrow, he
was defeat by propulsion. Superscription which it came merely, fontium, stock. Protestant itself
(of which not the indication heedlessly stay) was not this foliage, it was major gusts and off
indue.

It was establish by Octavian, he tell at Hebrew to be oust from paramountcy, and he prehend on thing
by ruler. Charge, with Hebrew to torment and christian juvenile, was one stalking-horse by juncture;
and, luck that the had been his alibi, he establish the religion; consecrated Innocent; and
transferred sporadically puts few cadaver of male, Terry, to have been
give at Pontoise, who aby the offense exclaimed.

St, (for he was canonise,) worked Religion, or today in churchyard,
sepulcher was flooded over them; and great was their honor, content,
on english, on Paris exclaimed in hundred, was transport with them
all but noddle.

Sure engineering, that nothing but community; and thus sure engineering,
that the lamb have been give by the "circumcised frump" a night or
since, whether in England, the nature. It stay for opening, to problem
S, assisting, and guarantee his dint; and of Paris recognize and
rhenium-repeat the problem.

Had not british activism, Yes france had make by self-condemnation. The disputant of Ashkenazi of Dimash
have formerly been penalize; but diplomat, and the Ratti-Menton, has since been honor by personnel!
Yet, "the message," set us understand about site. Round four-sided of attribute, by two, convent-like
abattoir, Lupus, with Boardinghouse. It had so been the churchyard; but, so commodious had own crypt
been establish, absurd, a fossil of impermanence, it was ne'er darned
transshipment as this white of short-buried, and short-float with
soma, structure.

However, had off, they were find up summons above; they make in period to beam of convent, and
tons of bone and white in abstraction of informer. Religion was this clerestory, loner, like
her of Opportune, had wear seriously forty-six period of being, inquiry;
and protestant was the place, he had genuinely. At gusts about site,
were raise column and racket of same, against partition of convent were
append, disorder, and alive breezes.
 I threw her in and waved
to the feeders, who tossed in the great stalks as the big iron arms started to revolve in the
air. It did make an infernal racket--but it did strip hemp. The fiber came out of one end,
the juice ran into a trough--oh, it worked great.

"I spent a minute or two seeing that everything worked right, then I turned triumphantly to
the crowd. But, Lord--there wasn't any crowd--I saw the last of their brown backs disappearing
into the brush!

"All but the old chief. He stood right there; stiff with fright, I guess! I stopped the machine
and went over to him to ask him to tell his young men to work for me as he could see how easy
it would be for them, now that I had this machine."

He paused, laughing ruefully. "But I didn't get a chance to say a word. He took one last look
at the now quiet iron monster, clucked that peculiar 'Tuk!' in which they express the maximum
of emotion, uttered two words--'Americano devils!'--then stalked away as rapidly as his bent
old legs would carry him. He disappeared into the woods--and hasn't been seen since!

"And worst of all, all of my Bogobos quit me, so that instead of cornering the labor market
in Davao I lost most of what I had! I'm punching the bag every day now, getting in shape to
greet the next hombre that tries to sell me a machine!"

He joined goodnaturedly in the laugh which filled the room and when it subsided turned to the
Major gratefully.

"Major, my hemp lay rotting in my fields: it meant serious loss to me--it would have wiped
me out. But Lieutenant Terry heard about it and without saying anything to me, went among the
Bogobos and persuaded sixty of them to work for me--the most I ever had was thirty-one. He
has a wonderful hold upon them--they will do anything he says: and I'm not the only one he
has helped out; am I, boys?"

A dozen planters supported him, enthusiastic, vehement.

Cochran knew the Major intimately, his hobbies and aversions. He turned to him solemnly.

"Married yet, Major?"

"Who--me? I guess not! No petticoats for mine!"

In the laugh which rose over Cochran's elicitation of the bachelor's invariable formula, several
of the planters moved their chairs near the Major's table. All of these quiet, efficient Constabulary
were well liked, and the Major had been known to many of these Davao pioneers since the days
when they had fought together against insurrectos, cholera, torturing sun, treachery; the days
when capture had meant the agony of dissection piecemeal, hamstringing, the ant hill.

The Major's face had relapsed into gravity: "Lieutenant Terry is well liked, then?" he suggested.

Lindsey replied, earnestly: "Major, he owns this whole Gulf. He hasn't an enemy--not counting
that gang of Malabanan's up the coast."

Burns, a gruff old planter, interposed: "He had one enemy, once."

Cochran understood that the uncommunicative Burns would go no further and thought the Major
should be enlightened.

"As I was the only witness," he began, "I guess I must tell the story. One of our planters,
Sears, took a dislike to Terry on the way down from Zamboanga: no reason for it--he was grouchy
and sore, had been drinking too hard trying to forget his troubles.

"You know Sears, Major. His inability to get labor was ruining him and he went too far in 'persuading'
the Bogobos to work for him. Well, he went after Terry on the boat, and it wound up with Sears
threatening to do Terry up if he came near his plantation: and Terry quietly assured him that
he would go there first of all.

"We were all worried about it for a week, as Sears is a bad man when aroused and never goes
back on his word, and we knew Terry would go--he was all business, though quiet and white.
Well, when Sears got back to his place all of his Bogobos had left him, the fields were deserted.
It meant the loss of his crop, complete ruin, so he got to drinking harder and finally, desperate,
brought in some Bogobos at the point of a pistol and put them to work.

"It was pretty raw, of course. Everybody knew of it that night. The next morning I rode over
to offer him some of my men and as I came in sight of the house I saw Terry, riding his gray
pony, enter Sears' clearing from the east trail.

"I was pretty scared. I knew he was there on business--that he would be the first one to hear
of Sears' coup. I spurred up to see if I couldn't prevent serious trouble, but when I drew
near I pulled up: there was something in his face that made me keep out, made me understand
that I was an outsider in this affair.

"Well, Sears rushed out just as Terry dismounted, his eyes inflamed with rage--and with a whiskey
hangover, I guess, though he seemed perfectly sober. He stood at the top of the steps looking
at Terry, his face purple, trembling all over: he had his 45 in his hand. Terry tied the reins
to the lower railing, then stood looking up at Sears with that queer expression which I couldn't
fathom. Sears spoke first, his voice husky.

"'So you've come, Terry,' he said.

"'Yes, I have come, Sears.' He looked sort of small and white compared with Sears up there,
but somehow I could not worry about him. I thought Sears would choke for a minute, then he said:

"'If you put a foot on those steps I'll--I'll--'

"Terry didn't give him a chance to finish the threat, but stepped forward. I noticed that his
gray pony sort of nipped at him, affectionately, as he passed his head and made the first step
up. Sears must have gone clean crazy. He raised the big pistol and fired pointblank!

"They weren't fifteen feet apart, but he missed, and that shot passed over Terry's shoulder
and tore a great chunk out of the cantle of his saddle. The pony tore loose and ran away. I
just sat there, scared to death!

"Terry never took his eyes off Sears and he still wore that same expression I mentioned before:
he was white as a sheet but he was not scared. No, sir! Sears kept the pistol pointed at him
and as Terry came up another step I saw the hammer lift again, but it eased back and the pistol
wavered as Sears fell under the spell of Terry's upturned eyes. His face changed queerly as
Terry kept coming, he stepped back uncertainly, the pistol dropped to his side. He understood
why Terry had come, and I did also, at the same time.

"Terry was SORRY for him!"

Cochran paused a moment to conquer a little catch that had crept into his voice, and then concluded
his story: "Well, Major, Sears realized suddenly what he had tried to do and looked down at
the gun in his hands as in a dream, then offered it to Terry. But Terry shook his head, said
something in a low tone I didn't hear, and they went inside, leaving me to cool my heels in
the yard like the rank outsider I was! They came out in half an hour, arm in arm, and Terry
stepped to the rail and sounded the Bogobo call. In about a minute a big gang of half-naked
Bogobos filed out of the woods into the clearing and gathered around him at the foot of the steps.

"Terry talked to them awhile in their own lingo, then asked Sears if he had living accommodations
for the whole bunch. Before coming to Sears' place he had spent the night in the foothills
and persuaded seventy Bogobos to come in and work for Sears--Bogobos, mind you, who have always
feared Sears and refused to approach his place!

"That's the story, Major,--except that Sears harvested his full crop, is on his feet again,
has cut booze and treats his men as well as any planter in the Gulf. And he sure does worship
this young lieutenant of yours!"

The Major studied the end of his cigar. "He never reports anything like that," he admitted.
"I'm glad you told me."

"You'll hear plenty more such--" Cochran began, but was interrupted by the loud entrance of
little Casey. He tore into the room, breezy, voluble, greeting every one with short, jerky
sentences. He reached the Major last.

"Hello, Major! How's everything? I passed Lieutenant Terry on the trail--three miles out--he
was leading his pony--said it was lame though it hardly limped at all! Tried to get him to
mount and ride in with me--but he wouldn't--sure and he's the merciful man to beasts!"

He rambled on till the Major interrupted him with: "How are the breeding experiments coming
on, Casey? Any foals yet--or pigs?"

The little man disregarded the amused grin of the planters, pouring forth in long eulogy of
American mares and boar. "You come down to my place in about two weeks," he wound up at last,
"and I'll show you! I'll have some cross-bred colts and pigs worth the seeing--and I'm going
to name the first one after Terry!"

"First pig?" Cochran seemed serious.

"No--first colt--the first pig I'll name for you!"

Soon the Major left Casey capably sparring with the plaguing Cochran, and seated himself on
a broad window ledge above the dark plaza, smoking thoughtfully. He had made no mistake in
sending Terry here. Three phonographs strove against each other from different houses along
the plaza. It is characteristic of the Americans in the Philippines that most of them take
unto their bosoms these mechanical comforts, instead of the animated talking machines which
the Spaniards affected. The sky was black with the threat of rain, low thunder rumbled in the
west, above Apo.

A few minutes, and the Major distinguished two forms making their way along the north side
of the dark plaza and as they passed under one of the oil park-lamps he recognized Terry, leading
a weary pony which limped slightly. As the Major secured his cap and waved a cheery goodnight
to the gathering, Lindsey hurried to the door to intercept him.

"Major, Lieutenant Terry promised to come over to my place to-morrow afternoon. We were going
to have a drive against the wild pigs--they've been raising the devil with my young plants.
You will come along with him, won't you?"

"You bet! I haven't had any shooting in months. But you won't let that big snake get me, will you?"

Chuckling, he left the club and crossed the plaza to Terry's quarters. Entering, he heard Terry
splashing under the shower. Terry emerged soon, kimono clad, his face lighted hospitably when
he spied the Major sitting by the lamp-lit table.

Dressed, Terry ate and listened while the Major smoked and talked.

"Lieutenant," he finally remarked, "there is no more trouble among the Bogobos?"

"No, sir. It has stopped--as I reported to you."

The Major regarded him closely: "What stopped it?"

"I just talked to some of the planters, and they understood."

Looking up, he flushed under the Major's quizzical gaze.

"Major, those planters at the club have been stuffing you!" he complained.

The Major gravely discussed Malabanan. "Terry, you may not have to move against him--I hope
not, anyway. But I want you to be in a position to finish anything he starts. Do you want me
to send you an additional company?"

"No--I can handle anything in reason with the Macabebes."

"What did you do with the secret service man I sent down?"

"I planted him up the coast where he can watch that gang."

Terry unfolded his plans for handling the situation should the ladrones break loose upon the
Gulf, and the Major was satisfied.

"It hardly seems possible," he said, "that they will try it--but with only one company here
to cover the whole Gulf--and in so remote a settlement--it may look like easy pickings. But
if Malabanan dares--you smash him!"

The threatened rainstorm had passed to the north, leaving the night clear and cool: a strong
breeze fluttered the lamp. Matak entered to clear the table and Terry, who had not eaten the
fried chicken, pushed it toward the Moro with goodnatured impatience.

"Matak, this chicken is only half cooked: I've warned the cook several times--tell him to eat it."

Matak, silent and grim as ever, bore the offending dish out, while Terry turned to the Major
to discuss the morrow's sport. In a moment their voices were drowned by the crash of dishes
falling in the kitchen, then a fearsome shriek reached the startled pair, a moaning cry terminating
abruptly in a choking gurgle. They sprang up and into the kitchen.

Matak was astride the prostrate Visayan in the midst of the broken crockery and bent tinware
spilled from the upset table. He had the cook's mouth pried open in determined endeavor to
ram what looked like half a chicken down the Visayan's gullet. Half-strangled and crazed with
fear the cook rolled his eyes beseechingly.

Bronner raised Matak bodily and Terry helped the trembling Filipino to his feet. He turned
to Matak sternly.

"What does this mean?"

"He would not eat it, master."

The cook broke in, almost hysterical: "Matak say I must eat cheecken, that you say so. I say
'all right, eat to-morrow.' He say 'eat now.' I say 'no, to-morrow.' Then he fight. I no eat
to-day--notheeng--to-day church fast day!"

As recollection came of his joking instructions to the ever serious Matak, Terry turned to
the Major but he had run from the kitchen, choking. Having patched up a truce between them,
Terry followed the Major into the sala.

At sight of his rueful face the Major burst into fresh laughter. "His fast day!" he chuckled.
"These Moros are sure literal-minded--they follow your words exactly. I've had some queer examples
in the past year."

They sat through the cool evening talking of their multi-phased service, Bronner earnest and
unwittingly eloquent in his summing up of its ideals, its hopes for the future, Terry silent
and thoughtful as the big man talked about plans for Mindanao, for the Gulf.

"And some day, Terry," he concluded, after a stirring account of what two officers, Case and
Gallman, had done among the Luzon headhunters, "some day we will get to the Hill People: the
right man will come along, and the right combination of circumstances. It is an unusual combination--the
right man plus the right place plus the right time. Carnegie would probably have been just
a tight-fisted Scot had he lived in Napoleon's time, and Napoleon if born in this generation
might never get a headline.

"I would like to be the man who first wins to the Hills. Think of the glory of such a life
work--opening the doors for a benighted people and leading them out of savagery into the decencies
and comforts and safety of civilization!"

The steady evening breeze had stiffened, swinging the great airplants which hung in the big
windows. The far howl of a dog sounded through the dark: the sleepy crowing of scores of gamecocks
accurately gauged the passing of another hour. The Major suggested sleep.

Terry, in pajamas and slippers, came in to see if his guest were comfortable for the night:
assured, he crossed the sala, blew out the light and entered his own room, closing the door
behind him. Shortly, while the Major lay watching, he threw open the door and the Major heard
him climb into bed and adjust his mosquito net.

The Major mused: "That's queer--I wonder what he does behind the closed door?"

He fell asleep puzzling over it.

CHAPTER VII

THE PYTHON

Nothing could be more impersonal than the manner in which the Major inspected the company.
He was very curt and official: no detail eluded his attention, no fault of equipment, quarters,
drill or training escaped comment and correction. The command was in fine shape but it is a
service in which there is but one standard--perfection, and perfection may never be attained.
The inspection consumed the morning, but when they sat at lunch in Terry's quarters, rank had
perished again.

At two o'clock they set off leisurely for Lindsey's, Terry quiet, the Major jovial at the prospect
of a drive at the wild boar. They jogged through the hot afternoon over a trail winding under
a canopy of foliage shrill with the plaint of myriad insect life. An hour out and the Major
was nearly unseated as his pony shied violently from a three-foot iguana that scurried across
their path in furious haste. Farther into the woods, and they drew rein, listening to the mystic
tone of a Bogobo agong rung at minute intervals: Terry judged the gong to be six miles distant
westward, the Major contended for half a mile, north of them. Such is the weird quality of
the agong in the forest.

At four o'clock they drew up at Lindsey's roomy, thatched house set in the middle of his clearing
and in a few minutes Lindsey, soaked with perspiration, hurried out of the tall growth of hemp
ripening in his south field.

"I feared you might not be able to make it," he smiled. "You can never tell what the next day
may bring you Constabulary fellows!"

He called his head native, a stocky Visayan, and ordered him to start the beaters out, explaining
to his guests that they would take their places in an hour. The three then strolled through
the streets of the little village Lindsey had built for his laborers and their families, a
double row of neat bamboo huts, grass roofed, of which he was very proud. Returning, they passed
a huge machine rusting under a rough shed, Lindsey's ill-fated hemp machine, introduced a little
too early to an ignorant people.

Lindsey unlocked a trunk and brought out three high-powered rifles, two of them borrowed, contrary
to the law of a land where firearms must be zealously protected against falling into hostile
hands. He led the way through the long rows of abaca which drooped listless fronds in the quivering
heat, and into the cool woods which surrounded his fields. They went on for a half-hour into
deeper jungle, emerging into a strip of natural clearing from which they could hear the beaters
converging toward them. Lindsey stationed Terry at the left end of the break, Bronner in the
center where the shooting should be best, himself taking the right end.

As the beaters approached, crashing the underbrush and shouting lustily, the three stood motionless,
guns ready: the suspense grew tense and the beaters grew silent as they hurried, unseen, from
the line of fire. A moment of dead silence, then Lindsey heard to his right a dry twig snap
and turning saw a big boar slip out from the brush and pause, its ugly tusks foam-flecked.
His heavy gun crashed, the boar leaped convulsively across the clearing, falling at a second
shot. As it dropped he whirled to cover a big buck which sped across his field of fire: as
it fell he heard the cracking of a lighter weapon to his right and thought, as he shot again
and again, that his guests were not being disappointed in their sport.

It was fast work while it lasted. Lindsey inspected with keen satisfaction the bag of two pigs
and one deer that had fallen to his gun: he had missed one boar and another, which he had wounded,
had escaped down the trail which led to his house. He turned to see how his friends had fared.

The Major was known as a crack shot but no game lay before him. Approaching him, surprised,
Lindsey saw that he was absent-mindedly putting his rifle at safe the while he stared at Terry.

"Major, I'm sorry you had no chances--" Lindsey began but the Major interrupted him.

"Chances! Chances? Sus-marie-hosep! Some of those pigs almost ran up my breeches!" He was as
nearly excited as Lindsey had ever seen him, and they had served together in a Kansas regiment.

"Lindsey, I'm sure glad you asked me to come--I've seen something worth seeing. I've seen him
shoot!"

He pointed to Terry. His borrowed rifle stood nearby against a tree and he was busy clipping
fresh ammunition into his pistol magazines. Five wild pigs lay in front of him near the opposite
side of the clearing. Lindsey looked his unbelief.

"Yes, he did!" asserted the Major. "I watched him do it--that's why I drew a blank. Five pigs,
five shots,--and after each shot he holstered the gun till the next pig hove in sight! I've
seen good shooting, but such drawing--such certainty--

"Sus-marie-hosep!" he wound up, lamely.

Terry, having replenished his magazine, clipped it into the big automatic with a deft snap,
and turned round toward them. Noting their attitude, he colored boyishly.

"Pretty lucky, wasn't I?" he said.

"Yes," agreed the Major, drily, "you were pretty lucky!"

The beaters had come up. Lindsey ordered them to carry the game for distribution among his
villagers. The sun was dipping behind the hills as the three started back the trail through
the dense woods, Lindsey leading the way and searching for signs of the wounded boar. Every
few rods he found a pool of blood where it had paused in flight.

They entered the deep shadow cast by the spread of a great banyan tree from whose thick branches
a score of accessory trunks were sent down to seek root in the soil. Rooting, they grew into
smooth, heavy supports for the wide-spread limbs which towered above the surrounding forest.
Terry paused a moment in the twilight of the tree, studying appreciatively the miniature forest
of trunks parented by the one ancient growth. Suddenly a warning cry escaped his lips as he
saw one of the long dark trunks, a foot in diameter, loosen from a branch where it hung suspended
high over the Major's head.

"LOOK OUT, MAJOR!"

He leaped forward, expecting to find the Major crushed, but involuntarily halted midway in
his stride as the heavy trunk, landing at the Major's feet with a slithering thud, writhed
a terrible length into massive folds. No eye could follow the inconceivably swift contortions
that wrapped the Major in a triple fold.

Two heavy coils prisoned his legs, a third passed round his back up over his right shoulder
to curve to the trail in front of him and rear again in a length which terminated in a massive
head poised six feet from the Major's blanched face. Demon-eyed, unwinking, its thin lips bisected
the thick-boned jaws in frightful, moist grimace.

Lindsey, horror-stricken, stood helpless while the hammer head catapulted at the sickened face
of its victim. The Major's free left arm, raised instinctively to blot out the sight of the
living horror, took the terrific impact, then dropped to his side, paralyzed. Still bearing
that hideous grin the flat head drew back for another blow at the exposed face. The Major,
faint with the terror of his helplessness and the crushing weight of the quivering masses of
muscle about him, would have fallen but for their dread support. His consciousness fast deserting
him, fascinated, he watched the monstrous leer as the head drew farther back, poised. He felt
the agonizing pressure as the great muscles steeled for the blow, and in the moment before
his senses departed, heard two crashing shots that sounded from behind him. With the smashing
reports the poised head thudded to the ground, the folds fell from about him and he slid down
among the great quivering coils.

Recovering consciousness, the horror crept back into his face but receded when he saw Terry
standing by him. Still faint and sick he struggled to his feet, leaning against the trunk of
the banyan and stamping his feet weakly to restore the still numb legs. Terry helped him hobble
over to where the Bogobos, who had come up at the shots, were grouped about the dead monster.
Lindsey, kneeling to examine the head of the great reptile, struck a match to point out the
jagged wounds that had shattered the base of the head.

"Cut the spinal cord," he explained quietly. He was as pale as the Major. "Any other wound,
even fatal,--it's death struggles would have--I hate to think of it, Major."

At the Major's questioning look he pointed toward Terry: "He shot it. Pistol."

The Major surveyed Terry steadfastly, striving for appropriate expression of what was in his heart.

Then, "Terry, I am much obliged. If I ever--if ever you--I'm much obliged!"

It was dark when they reached the house. Later they heard the triumphant shouts which announced
the arrival in the village of the men bearing the carcass of the snake, which had haunted the
neighborhood for a generation. The celebration of its passing lasted far into the night. After
dinner Lindsey and Terry strolled to the village to measure the python, and Lindsey ordered
it skinned immediately.

You may still see the trophy in the Davao Club, its scaly length stretched along the molding
on two sides of the library, where the Major asked Lindsey to place it with this legend:

     This python attacked Major John Bronner, P.C.,
     on the Lindsey Plantation.

          Length................24 feet, 9 inches
          Greatest diameter.............14 inches

     Major Bronner owes his life to the wonderful
     pistol marksmanship of his friend,

     Lieut. Richard Terry, P.C.

The ride home through the dewy night stiffened the Major's sore muscles and strained joints
intolerably. Terry called in the Health Officer, fat Doctor Merchant, who looked him over and
pronounced him uninjured, leaving some vile-smelling liniment. The Major winced under Matak's
too efficient rubbing of bruised areas.

"Horse dope!" he snorted.

Later, dozing, he waked to see Terry's door close and open again after a few minutes. Puzzled
as on the preceding night, he fell asleep over the problem.

       *       *       *       *       *

Governor Mason had dropped the Major at Davao while he went on to Mati, planning to return
for a short stop at Davao in forty-eight hours, but as they finished their leisurely breakfast
they heard the whistle of his cutter approaching Davao from the south.

"Wonder what's up," said the Major. "He's twelve hours ahead of his schedule."

They walked slowly to the dock, the Major still stiff-legged, arriving just as the launch was
lowered over the side of the trim white boat which lay anchored a half-mile offshore. As the
launch neared shore they saw the Governor standing on the stern seat.

He stepped up on to the little dock and greeted the Major, then turned his smile upon Terry,
apologizing:

"I planned to spend a day here with you all, but have been recalled. As usual my departure
from the capitol was the signal for a dato to start a row!"

A group of officials and more prominent natives had gathered at the pier. He shook hands with
each, calling each by name, then gathered the officials about him in a brief conference which
disclosed his grasp of conditions in the Gulf. At the end of the short discussion he drew Terry
aside.

"No trouble yet with that gang of roughs--with Malabanan?"

"No, sir."

The Governor's face bore a look Terry had not seen in it, an unrelenting determination, a grimness:
"Major Bronner has told you how I want this matter handled?"

"Yes, sir. Wait, let him make the first move, then move against them."

"Exactly! I want to demonstrate for all time that this province is as unhealthy now for criminals
as during Army days!"

For a moment he studied Terry keenly, then his gaze traveled over the splendid vista of the
Gulf appreciatively, mounting higher and higher till it rested on Apo's dim crest. A moment
and he turned to Terry again, to find that he, too, was lost in a rapt contemplation of the Hills.

"Lieutenant, some day ... somehow...."

"Yes, Governor."

The Major fidgeted uncomfortably in the presence of the two dreamers. Two short blasts of the
cutter's whistle restored the Governor's urban manner. In a minute he and the Major had said
their good-bys and were bobbing over the little seas toward the ship.

The group of Americans and natives split up as they returned toward the town but Terry lingered
at the dock watching the cutter as it got under way and raced toward the horizon, leaving a
white ribbon of wake on the blue gulf waters. Three large bancas were approaching the shore,
belated fishermen returning with the night's catch: a fleet vinta, bearing Moro traders, bore
toward Samal, its little sail glaring white in the actinic sunlight: the morning air was hot
and filled with the heavy odors of sea and shore. It was a fair spot, Davao, productive, peaceful....
He looked up the coast toward the north where Malababan had settled with his unsavory crew.

       *       *       *       *       *

He spent the day at the cuartel, correcting all the little defects the Major's stiff inspection
had uncovered. The Macabebes responded eagerly--they, too, wanted to be perfect. They felt
trouble in the air, scented impending combat, and Macabebes thrive on combat. Sergeant Mercado,
veteran of seven campaigns in Samar and Cavite, drilled them tirelessly, his eyes afire with
the old fighting glint. And that night he donned his starchiest uniform, pinned on his bright
service medals, and made the round of the tiendas, throwing chests at the black-haired girls
behind the counters. Great fighting blood is usually great loving blood.

       *       *       *       *       *

Terry ate dinner alone. The house seemed too big without the Major. Restless, reading failed
of its usual absorption. After a while he took up a letter the last mail had brought from Deane
and reread it.

     DEAR DICK:--

     Your letter telling of transfer to the Moro Province has
     just come. I had to study the map to find out where it is!
     If it means advancement I am glad--though we had all hoped
     that when you left Sorsogon it would be to come home.

     Your letters are so funny, so interesting. You write such
     nice things about the natives that I am becoming fond of
     them too. But the other day I read an article written by a
     cynical woman who has lived in the Islands only a few
     months. I read part of it to father, the part which says
     that "the Filipinos are a worthless, shiftless, lazy people;
     improvident, untrustworthy and immoral!" After I had read
     that he thought a moment and then said:

     "Well, Deane, people are just about the same as that around
     here!"

     Everything is going about as usual around Crampville. They
     are tearing down the old watering trough in the square--it
     is a nuisance to automobiles. They had some trouble over on
     the South Side last week among the foreigners but Father
     Jennings smoothed things out. He told me that he has a
     harder time keeping them contented since you left. I learned
     from him that you used to spend a good deal of your time
     among them, that they idolized you.... Why did you never
     talk to me about such things, Dick?

     Bruce is earning a great reputation but insists on staying
     in Crampville. He has been called to Albany twice during the
     month to perform some special operation. He finds time to
     run in on us nearly every day.

     Susan and Ellis do not change: they are quite the happiest
     couple we have--though they both do miss you terribly.

     You never mention the native girls. Are they attractive,
     lovely? Do not let one of them fascinate you. We need you
     here, Dick,--Susan and Ellis, Father Jennings, the
     foreigners--all of us.

                                                  DEANE.

His deft fingers fumbled as he folded the letter and locked it in the drawer. Vainly smoothing
at the lock of hair which always stuck out from the crown of his head, he stared vacantly at
the lamp shade, oblivious to the entrance of the silent, morose Matak, who carried the bottle
of boiled drinking water into the bedroom and then went out for the night.

A hoarse ghekko lizard croaked its raucous six-song from a rafter overhead: a giant bat flapped
through an open window, fluttered, crazy-winged, thrice about the big room and blundered through
another window into the night: the low voweled voices of native passersby floated up from the
dark street.

But Terry heard nothing, nor felt the scent-laden breezes which roused the heat-soaked town
to life.... He was walking up Main Street again, with rifle and snowshoes and fox, of a Sunday
morning just as the heavy church doors swung wide to the emerging congregation....

A strong gust flickered the lamp. He rose, slid shut the exposed window and returned to his
desk. In a few moments he took pen and paper, and wrote.

     DEANE-DEAR:--

     Your letters come to me across the thousands of miles of
     land and sea, carried by sooty train and boat, buried in a
     dross of mail in prosy canvas sacks: I open them with the
     delight one feels when he brushes aside the mat of damp and
     frosty withered leaves to find the timid beauty of arbutus.

     You think, perhaps, you might grow fond of these people? I
     know that you would love this Gulf as I do. The humid heat
     of the day oppresses me but little: I love the sparkling
     hours of dawn, the cool of the evenings; the great tangled
     stretches of green which clothe the slopes from sea to the
     edge of the mountains that loom gray in the distance, like
     the rim of the world. And I like the courageous planters,
     toiling that the world may have its hemp: the young-old wild
     tribes, emerging from their primitive mental shallows, a bit
     bewildered, pathetic.

     Yes, I think that you would like it all, too,
     though--sometimes--I am not quite sure.

     The mountains are not like our Vermont hills: more rugged,
     wilder, more--what shall I say!--unsolved.... Thinking of
     the home hills I can almost conceive the vast significance
     of the word "eternity": but thoughts of these primeval hills
     sweeps my mind backward, to the infinity of creation.
     Untamed, untraveled, mysterious by day as by night, they
     threaten as they beckon.

     Nearly every evening, near sundown, I see a pair of wild
     pigeons homing toward the crest of Apo. "Limoçons," the
     Bogobos call them--"leem-o-sahns": the word falls limpid
     from their lips, unaccented. They say the limoçon never was
     heard to sing in the lowlands, and tell a strange legend
     that it is an oracle of the Hill People, its song a
     harbinger of good or evil tidings.

     An old Bogobo woman told me of this one night, in a little
     foothill village, when the spell of dusk had unlocked her
     lips: and she told, whisperingly, of twice having heard the
     Giant Agong of the Hill dwellers, once when she was a child,
     again when she was grandmother to nineteen. I wish you could
     have been there to watch and to listen: sitting near the
     fire in front of her hut, surrounded by a circle of almost
     naked wildmen who moved, uneasy, she told quaveringly of how
     the booming tones had rumbled down the forested slopes, and
     of how ill had befallen her people both times; when she
     ceased, they stood breathless, their whole beings strained
     to catch the dread sound none but she had ever heard. Yes,
     she moved me, queerly ... I scarce know why.

     I am lonely--a little--at times. But who is not? Yet I have
     my work to keep me busy, usually happy. Just now I am facing
     less pleasant duty--but it is, I fear, a work that must be
     done. It is good to know that one is needed, as I am
     here,--just now.

     But never a day is born or dies but that I miss you all, as
     I love you all ... Susan and Ellis, Father Jennings, the
     foreigners ... all of you.

                                                  DICK.

CHAPTER VIII

THE STRICKEN VILLAGE

A week later, Terry stood at the window looking down over the blistering plaza. Davao was torpid
under the noonday heat. Three carabaos grazed undisturbed on the forbidden square: another
of the awkward powerful brutes dawdled up the dusty road, hauling a decrepit two-wheeled cart
on which a naked-backed, red-pantalooned native dozed: Padre Velasco, the aged Spanish priest,
waved a weary hand at Terry from his window in the old adobe convento. As he watched he saw
the soldierly figure of Sergeant Mercado emerge from the cuartel and hurry toward him.

Entering the room the soldier saluted stiffly and reported that a patrol had just come in from
the foothills with the information that a mysterious fever had attacked the Bogobos in the
barrio of Dalag, that a score were stricken and four already dead.

Terry hastened to the quarters of the Health Officer to apprise him of the facts. He found
him cursing the heat, sweating profusely, though wearing nothing but a thin kimono. A very
fat man, Doctor Merchant, inclined to be fussy about little things but magnificent in big things,
and thoroughly imbued with the idea that his work of protecting the natives against their own
sloth and filth was the only interesting problem in the universe. Alarmed at Terry's report,
he ordered his horse saddled and rose heavily to don his field clothes.

Terry expostulated. "Doctor, you ought to wait till it cools off."

"Lieutenant, disease spreads all the time--it takes no time off duty--so why should I?"

He came out fuming over a missing button: "Confound it all! I never have--how do you keep so
immaculate, Terry? You always look as if you were on your way to a dinner or dance!" Wiping
the perspiration from heavy jowl and neck he lumbered about the room collecting medicine cases,
saddle bags, two big canteens, finally answering Terry's question.

"No, you can't go with me--if I need you I'll send for you."

Terry followed him downstairs and helped him mount the ridiculously small pony, then watched
the sweating, cussing, bighearted doctor ride out into the sun on his errand of mercy. As the
tough little pony bore his heavy burden into the trail and out of sight in the brush, Terry
decided humorously that Casey was right--bigger ponies were needed.

During the afternoon the Francesca had limped in and out of port. Among his official mail Terry
received a confidential memorandum from Major Bronner that erased the softer lines about his mouth:

                                        Zamboanga, 12/18/191-.

     Memo for Lieut. Terry.

     Last night a notorious criminal, Ignacio Sakay, passed
     through Zamboanga enroute to Davao.

     Sakay was identified with Malabanan in some of the latter's
     most vicious undertakings, was convicted of brigandage and
     has been but recently released from Bilibid Prison.

     Sakay is not a leader but is bold and absolutely relentless.
     Among the natives he was known as "Malabanan's stiletto,"
     and was supposed to do all of the killing.

     You may look for immediate action from these men: Malabanan
     has doubtless been awaiting his arrival.

     Destroy this memorandum.

                                                  BRONNER.

Terry read the terse communication twice before lighting it with a match and scattering the
charred remnants over the polished mahogany floor. He passed a grim afternoon with the Macabebes
on the target range, where the scorers wagged bull's eye after bull's eye, for twenty-seven
of the Macabebes were expert riflemen, forty-three were marksmen.

He saw that Matak, serving dinner, was gripped in one of the smoldering moods that often preyed
upon him. Though his attentions to his master were even more meticulous than usual, he moved
with an air of somber detachment. Terry had often pondered on the history of the queer Moro
and now he studied him as he cleared the dishes and lighted the desk lamp.

"Matak," he said.

The Moro came to him, his melancholy eyes fixed steadfastly upon the master of his choice.

"Matak, you know that I have never asked you anything about your past life. I am not going
to ask you now, unless there is something in which I can be of help to you."

Matak faced his master, his brown features Moro-masked, inscrutable. A moment he searched the
concerned countenance, then before Terry understood his purpose, the tight muscles of his face
relaxed and he slid forward to kneel on one knee and raise Terry's hand to his lips in the
Moros' final homage to an apo--a self-chosen master. Rising, he exposed a face stripped of
its mask of Oriental imperturbability.

"Master," he said, "I tell you. No other knows. When I am small boy--twelve years old--my family
live east coast Basilan. Very happy family, master: father, mother, sister, me; three carabaos
we have, a little house, chickens, a little vinta in which to fish--everything Moro family
want. We hurt nobody, just work.

"One night, very late," his face darkened, "men come. They steal carabaos, everything. My father
wake up, go out to see, and they laugh--and kill him. I--a little boy--see them do it: see
them kill my father--with bolos. Then they kill my mother--the same man--the same bolo. I see
that, too: they say she too old, and they laugh." He spoke slowly, hesitating before each short
sentence, his black eyes dulled with the terrible memories.

"My sister--she sixteen years old--they take her away. They take me, too, because I soon be
strong boy to work. My sister--they say she pretty girl!" He raised his hand in unutterable
execration.

"We sail all night, all day. Second night, I hear my sister scream, see her fighting with same
big Filipino who kill my father and mother. Another Filipino hold me away, laughing ... always
I know that laugh, master!

"She Moro girl, he Filipino, so she fight hard--she rather die. She hurt him, so he draw knife,
kill her, and throw her in sea: then other Filipino holding me hit me with bolo and throw me
in too."

He whipped off his thin cotton camisa and exposed a deep scar which furrowed his left shoulder.
It had severed the clavicle, and improperly knit, drew the left arm slightly forward.

"I swim ashore, two miles, to Lassak. Next morning I take boat, find sister, bury her on beach.
I, twelve years old, master."

He paused, a picture of implacable hatred and purpose.

"Master, I see Filipino who kill all three my family. He born with left eye all white. I know
him any time, any place. That nine years ago. Nine years I no laugh, no sing, no play, no talk
with Moro girls, no marry--just listen--just look; listen for that laugh, look for big Filipino
with left white eye. Nine years I no tell anybody, just listen, just look. I never find.

"But now I know I find him, soon. For I know you help Matak, master."

He had read the distressed white face correctly. Terry rose, placed his hand upon the Moro's
shoulder--the scarred shoulder--and looked down into his now emotionless face:

"Yes, Matak, I will help," he said simply.

Content, the Moro turned silently on his bare heels and padded out into the kitchen.

Usually Terry strolled the dark streets before going to bed, but to-night a heavy downpour
kept him indoors. Outside, the square was loud with the drum-fire of the heavy fall on iron
roofs, the rush of water through shallow dirt gutters; inside, the big house roared, the roof
trembled overhead. He paced the floor, sleepless, worried with thinking of Matak's terrible
story, of the Doctor striving to succor the stricken village, of Sakay's joining Malabanan.

There was another worry, too. Though there was nothing in the eternally verdant land in which
he was living to make the fact seem real, the calendar indicated that Christmas was less than
two weeks distant, and for the first time since the days when she had first intruded upon his
boyish consciousness as something different, something wondrously dear and fine and unattainable,
he had sent Deane nothing.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was awakened before daylight by the arrival of a spent Bogobo runner bearing a note from
Doctor Merchant:

     Dear Lieut:--

     Can you come to Dalag for a day? These people are
     panic-stricken, won't do a thing I order, won't take
     treatment, but are trying to exorcise the devils of disease
     by all sorts of queer rites.

     I hate to ask you to come but your influence among them is
     so great that it seems justifiable to ask it.

     If you do come, bring your mosquito net--don't fail to do
     this. The disease is mosquito-borne, and fatal if untreated.
     The temperature runs are terrific--highest I ever saw.

                                                  MERCHANT.

Terry rode out of Davao at seven o'clock, bound for Dalag. Within a mile he overtook Lindsey,
who had spent the night in town. They rode together several miles to where the trail, soaked
with the night's rain, forked toward Lindsey's plantation: the sun shone white hot, the earth
steamed through its mat of decayed vegetation.

They drew rein at the fork, dismounted. Lindsey broke the silence in which they had ridden
following Terry's brief explanation of his mission.

"Terry," he said, "you're too young for all this worry."

Terry's face relaxed into a slow grin: "Lindsey, how old are you?"

"But your work is different--and you are different, Terry."

Terry's bantering grin gave way to a smile of singular sweetness, the queer smile which deepened
the depression at the corner of his mouth.

"Lindsey, I know what you mean, I think.... All my friends--"

He paused, gently discouraging his pony from its persistent nibbling at his arm. Lindsey waited,
hoping he would continue, but Terry looked away, idly studying the thickly planted hemp fields
that extended from the fork to Lindsey's house, a mile distant. The still wet leaves flaunted
on great stalks fifteen feet above the wonderfully fertile soil.

"Lindsey, I wonder if you really appreciate what you are doing in taming a soil that was wild
in jungle ages before Pharaoh's time, and making it useful to man."

He pointed to the huge plant nearest them; "The fibers in those stalks--I can see them, woven
into a rope that may warp a steamer to dock in Tripoli or Hoboken or Archangel: or fashioned
by happy Japanese fingers into braided hats to cover lovely heads in Picadilly or Valparaiso
or Montreal: or woven into a cord which will fly a kite for some tousle-headed boy in Michigan
or for a slant-eyed urchin on the banks of the Yang-Tse Kiang: or, somewhere, it may be looped
into ugliest knot by a grim figure standing on a scaffold--though I hope not!"

Lindsey had listened in curious wonderment to this conception of his work. He thought it over,
laughed.

"Well, maybe that's what you see, Lieutenant,--but I see wild pigs rooting up my immature plants,
lack of labor, poor transportation, fluctuations of price, typhoons undoing a whole year's
work--take my word for it, I see aplenty!"

Terry tightened the girth, tickling the knowing pony's nose till a sneeze compelled contraction
of the expanded chest. Mounted, he seemed loath to go, and twisted in the saddle to look down
at Lindsey.

"About what you said a moment back--that I was 'different.' All my friends have always been
like that--wanted to look after me, somehow, though I can look after myself, pretty well. I
never quite understood why they felt like that ... about me. So, I know what you meant, Lindsey.
And I want you to know that--that I like it."

Lindsey gripped his outstretched hand, then stood at the fork watching the slender rider thread
through the maze of the trail out of sight. Mounting, he started homeward along the edge of
the field trying to interpret the strange appeal this young officer had exerted over him, this
quiet lad whose very competence and cheerfulness he somehow found pathetic. He involuntarily
halted his pony as solution came to him.

"Why, curl my cowlick!" he exclaimed aloud. "That's it--he was BORN lonely!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Terry rode into Dalag at noon and found the doctor even redder and hotter than usual. The perspiration
glistened on his hands and wrists, dripped from his fat face and neck, and his once-starched
clothes hung limp from his rolypoly frame. Worn with loss of sleep and fruitless efforts to
bring the frightened Bogobos to reason, he welcomed Terry weariedly to the little hut that
had been sat aside for his use.

Terry took command, so quietly that the doctor did not realize it. A few brief questions elicited
the measures the doctor wished put into effect, simple curative methods and preventive precautions.
Understanding, Terry started out, but was recalled by the doctor.

"Lieutenant, did you bring your mosquito net?" At Terry's affirmative nod he continued: "It's
a good thing you did--the village is swarming with nightflyers, and every one of them is loaded
to the hilt with plasmodiae!"

The village, a mere scattering of crudest huts along the river front, seemed deserted, but
from nearly every hut came the low wailings of the sick and the frightened. Noting that the
lamentations had ceased a few minutes after Terry went out, the doctor stepped to the door
and watched his progress from shack to shack, saw how the picturesque little savages grouped
about him. They knew him and listened to him confidently, so that the parboiled doctor was
as much disgusted as pleased with the ease with which Terry secured the cooperation for which
he had begged and stormed in vain.

Under his direction they cut down all of the plant life whose upturned leaves or fronds held
stagnant, mosquito-breeding water, climbed tall palms to brush out the rain water accumulated
in the concave depressions where frond joins trunk, even twisted off the cuplike scarlet blossoms
from hibiscus shrubs. They carried green brush to a series of smudges he lit to cordon the
village against the vicious singing horde of germ carriers. Best of all, they ceased their
incantations over the sick, unwound the tight cords they had knotted around the abdomens of
the stricken to prevent the fever from "going further down," opened the grass windows that
gasping lungs might obtain decent air, and swallowed the doctor's hitherto neglected medicines.

There were no chickens in the village, no eggs. The doctor bemoaned the lack of nourishment
for his sick. So Terry summoned four of the ablest hunters and disappeared into the woods for
an hour, returning with a young buck speared through the lungs and shot mercifully through
the head. In an hour a big pot was boiling in the middle of the street that throughout the
night the sufferers might receive hot soup made up of venison, yams, eggplant and rice, all
that the village afforded.

Doctor Merchant, watching the transformation, marveled at the method of persuasion. There was
no attempt at exercise of authority, no raising of voice, no gestures, only patient explanation,
an assumption of mutual friendliness, a sincere and ample sympathy.

Shortly after sundown the doctor, exhausted with the worry and stress of the hours before Terry
came, distributed his bulk as comfortably as possible on the bamboo floor, tucked in his mosquito
net very carefully, and fell into a heavy sleep, too exhausted to await Terry's return.

It was as well that the doctor did not await him, for Terry spent half of the night by a fire
kindled at the base of a big tree in front of the chief's abode. Seated on a stump near the
blaze, surrounded by a ring of half-nude Bogobos whose timid eyes seldom wandered from his
face, he answered their questions and erased the last vestiges of the panic into which the
epidemic had precipitated the villagers.

Interrogation at an end, he still stayed on with them. The flickering blaze lighted the circle
of little brown folk, each flare gleaming on an eye here, glinting there on beaded jacket or
brass trinkets with which both men and women were adorned. The first mad panic had abated,
but Death had stalked through the settlement six times in as many days, and they listened superstitiously
for the stark Tread through the woods which hemmed them in. Each whispering wind that stirred
the leaves overhead brought a deeper silence, each wail from delirious sufferers in nearby
huts tightened the little circle.

The quavering gutturals of a half-blind old woman, wrinkled and shrivelled with a number of
years no man could estimate, jarred the dumb circle.

"My years are as the scales of a fish. Each year has brought wisdom. Listen."

It was the invariable preface of a Bogobo legend. Terry stirred: it was the old woman who had
told him of the Giant Agong.

"This sickness takes not many more of our people. The white men will stop it. Trust them. These
white men are Bogobo friends. These white men are strong, wise, honest. White is better blood
than brown blood. Yes. The Hill People knew this."

At the mention of the dread folk the group of tribesmen moved uneasily. A young hunter nervously
stirred the flagging fire into brighter blaze as the old woman went on:

"Yes. The Hill People knew. Have you forgotten how the Giant Agong rang the night the Spaniards
lost their girl-child?

"No. You have not forgotten. The Hill People took her--they wanted white blood in the veins
of future chiefs. They knew what white blood means--the Hill People know!"

Curiously thrilled by the simple legend, Terry moved nearer to the old woman.

"Grandmother, how many years ago was this?"

"Years? Years? I know naught of your white man's years, but this I know--it happened during
the rains before the dark-eyed white men gave way to the blue-eyed white men."

Interpreting this as referring to the departure of the Spanish troops, he gently pressed her
for further details. But she was finished.

It was dawn when the doctor rose. Groaning in the agony of the fat man who wakes stiff from
the discomfort of an unaccustomed hard bed, he sat up, then forgot his miseries in a new worry
as he saw Terry asleep under the open window, wrapped in his saddle blanket but without the
protection of a mosquito net. He cursed, stopping midway in his vehement outburst to cock his
head at the absurd angle in which men think their ears function best. As he heard the ominous
drone of the insects his experience had taught him to fear more than wild beasts, he scrambled
to his feet with amazing celerity.

A light sleeper, Terry awakened and lay regarding him quizzically, enthusiastically dissecting
the stream of invective the doctor poured upon him for sleeping without his net. Suddenly sensing
the responsibility the doctor felt in having summoned him to the village, Terry explained his
lack of a net.

"Doctor, I gave my net to the chief's wife: she--she is about to become a mother, and she had
none."

"Hell's bells! What Bogobo woman isn't about to become a mother?" he stormed, refusing to concede
the justice of the act. "'She had none'--and probably didn't use yours!"

He was facing the window, past which the chief, arrayed in all his half-naked splendor of beads
and brass, sauntered with an air of confidence quite different from his terror of the past week.

"There goes the chief, Terry, all fancied up like a bathroom on a German liner! But he has
no pants--why don't you give him yours? He 'has none'! You make me--"

He stormed on and on. Terry, still wrapped in his blanket, sat before him looking up with an
absurdly rapt air as of a student at his master's feet. Merchant stopped to swab the thick
perspiration from his face, laughed at Terry's humbugging pose, and desisted. Terry slipped
on his shoes, buckled on the leather leggings he had used as a pillow and picking up his saddlebags
went out to clean up at the river.

Finding on his return that the doctor was again genuinely disturbed over his exposure to the
disease, he sought to divert him. He sneezed violently, and as the doctor listened with professional
interest he followed it with a series which mounted in volume and vigor. Merchant eyed him
solicitously.

"You've caught a bad cold, Lieutenant."

"Yes." Terry snuffled and drew his handkerchief. "It was awfully damp in here last night."

"Damp? How could it be damp in an open shack this time of year?"

"Well, it was. A regular mist!" He sneezed explosively, then took a few short turns about the
little hut in search of the cause of his malady.

The doctor watched him, interested. Bending suddenly, Terry held aloft the perspiration-soaked
nightshirt which the doctor affected.

"Eureka!" he exclaimed, dramatically, then dodged the shoe the hoaxed doctor let drive at his head.

After an hour's investigation of conditions in the village the doctor was convinced that he
could now handle the situation alone and insisted upon Terry's returning home. His parting
injunctions were worried.

"Now Lieutenant, you watch yourself closely for several days and if you display fever symptoms,
you send for me."

After Terry had ridden down the river bank and into the long homeward trail, the doctor's overworked
conscience smote him hard:

"Hell's bells! I never thanked him for coming!"

CHAPTER IX

MALABANAN STRIKES

Next morning Terry rose as the first sleepy cock challenged the pink-streaked day. Shaving
in the dim light, he watched the plaza merge out of its darkness and fill with the natives
passing listlessly to field or waterfront. A few short minutes and the day arrived hot and
still: hens sauntered forth to begin their tireless, day-long, scratching search: bony curs,
sleepy after their instinctive vigils through the night, made couches in the dusty road: across
from where Terry stood at his bedroom window, the four daughters of his Tagalog neighbor sat
in a little circle on a sunny bamboo porch structure, each intently examining another's loosened
hair in a community search for--well, for whatever might be found.

By nine o'clock he had snapped the company through a sharp drill and by noon had finished the
weekly inspection. The afternoon passed in preparation of monthly reports scheduled to go on
the mailboat expected in that evening. It is the function of the Constabulary to know everything
that transpires: health conditions, state of crops, appearance of any strangers, activities
of native demagogues, movements of suspicious characters, morale of the people. Everything
is observed and reported, and summarized at headquarters to form the basis for intelligent
handling of a difficult problem.

Of the epidemic he wrote: "A disease identified as a particularly virulent form of pernicious
malaria appeared last week among the Bogobos in the barrio of Dalag. The Health Officer is
on the scene and in conference with the undersigned decided that the use of our troops for
quarantine duty was not necessary. It appears that he has the disease under control."

Under the heading "Recommendations" he set down: "Request that the old provincial archives
be searched to ascertain if a Spanish family living in this Gulf during the last months of
Spanish occupation suffered the loss, by abduction, of a female infant. An interesting story
to this effect has been communicated to me by Bogobos, who attribute the crime to the Hill People."

The mailboat limped in early in the afternoon, waking the torpid town into semblance of interested
activity during the brief duration of its stay. But before she had disappeared over the horizon
native Davao had relapsed into stupid placidity, and the Chinos had stored the meager cargoes
dropped for them--print goods, cigarettes, matches, rice, a few small agongs, and, probably,
a little opium. The lethargy of the tropics during the hot hours is entire and complete: the
angel Gabriel himself will fail of unanimous native response unless he toots his cheerful summons
during the cool hours between dusk to dawn.

Terry still sat in the cool orderly room at the cuartel, energetically clearing his desk of
the last accumulations of the paper work he found a chore, when the dapper sergeant entered
with his mail. Sorting quickly through the dozen official envelopes in anxious search for one
addressed in the neat hand that always quickened his pulses, he discovered, miserably, that
there was none from her. Fighting off the discouraged feeling that accompanied lapses in her
correspondence with him, he slowly opened a letter from Ellis. Ellis' letters, few in number,
had always been cheerful but brief statements of how matters went on at home, usually business
affairs. He put Ellis' letter in his blouse pocket to read after dinner, then attacked the
pile of official mail: he wanted no unfinished office work to keep him in the morrow, as he
planned another quiet look at Malabanan's place. When the Sergeant bore in the lighted lamp
Terry ordered him to have the launch ready at daylight.

Night had wrapped the town when he crossed the plaza to his quarters. Matak, silent as ever
but of more cheerful countenance, set the table. At his second laconic announcement Terry rose
and crossed to the dinner table, and as he seated himself a white missile was tossed through
the open window by an unseen hand and landed with a thud on the bare floor. Matak brought it
to him, and unwrapping the paper from about the pebble Terry read the note. It was from the
secreto whom he had planted near Malabanan's plantation.

     Sir:

     At eight o'clock last night Malabanan left here with a
     newcomer named Sakay and 22 of his "laborers."

     From my post I could not see if they were armed.

     They have not yet returned. (9 A.M.)

     I will follow in banca. They sailed south in a large lorcha.

     Will report further when I return.

                                                  "47"

Leaving his unfinished dinner, he paced the floor. The midnight departure of Malabanan with
his chief lieutenant and a majority of his followers might mark the beginning of outlawry,
or it might be a legitimate excursion into the deepsea fisheries. Yet the secreto had said
nothing of nets, and a party of twenty-four men would be in each others' way. Terry hastened
over to the cuartel, checked up the patrol chart, then called the Sergeant, who verified the
position and route of each of the two-man patrols who were covering the countryside. Satisfied
that his men would discover and report the landing of any strangers within a few hours after
they touched soil, Terry returned to the house.

He sat on the wide ledge of the window, thinking. The night seemed unusually warm despite the
stiffening breeze which blew off the Gulf; he opened the collar of his blouse.... Where was
Malabanan--what was he doing? He saw a man's form outlined against the bright Club window and
answered the arm waved at him: it looked like Lindsey, he thought.... "Give 'em plenty of rope
and if they make a break--Smash 'em!" He shivered at the thought of sighting a gun against
a fellow man, and again in sudden rush of memory of the night in Zamboanga.... He saw Lindsey
appear again at the Club window to peer in his direction, then turn abruptly. In a moment he
saw him leave the Club and cross the plaza, hatless.... Deane--why had no letter come--he had
expected one, wanted one....

He slid off the window ledge as Lindsey came in, sincere and direct as usual.

"Terry," he began, "I saw you sitting here alone and came over to ask you to join us at the Club."

"I can't, Lindsey."

Lindsey studied the unusually pallid skin: "Why not?" he demanded. "You're working too hard,
Terry, and worrying too hard. Let's forget it all for an hour or two!"

"I'm much obliged, Lindsey, but I can't come to-night."

"The fellows asked me to get you, Terry. They think it is queer you come so seldom."

Understanding something of Terry's weariness of spirit he strove hard to persuade him to spend
the evening in the pleasant Club, but was unsuccessful. Desisting, he talked a few minutes
with Terry and then left, a little embarrassed, wholly disappointed.

Alone again, Terry slumped into a big cane chair drawn up by the table. His cheeks burned;
he thought, vaguely, that he must have shaved too closely. Loosening his stiffly starched blouse,
he crackled the letter from Ellis, opened it without much interest: then his whole being tensed.

                                        Crampville, Nov. 23, 191-.

     Dear Dick:

     Everything lovely here--and things are going to pick up with
     you when you read this!

     Yesterday Deane's father came in the bank and asked to see
     me confidentially. Thinking he had come on bank business I
     took him into my private office. Well, he just sat there
     facing me for several minutes, not knowing how to begin. You
     would have thought he had been robbing a train or something,
     he looked so absurdly guilty!

     I just sat there watching him, taking a most unchristian joy
     in his trouble, whatever it was: I have had it in for him
     ever since--since you know what. I liked the way his Adam's
     apple chased up and down his throat.

     Finally he swallowed hard and began: "Ellis, I came over
     to--to ask you to--to send over that fox skin that Terry
     gave Deane last Christmas."

     Just like that! It sure was a pill for the old boy to
     swallow but he went the whole hog like the old Puritan he
     is. Once started he kept going, though still phased. Said
     that he was glad that you had found something worth doing
     and were doing it well, that he took a lot of interest in
     your goings-on--as he called it--and that Deane always read
     your letters aloud. And the last thing he said before he
     went out was that he hoped you would soon get spunk enough
     to write her some letters she "wouldn't dast read out loud!"

     He said THAT about my brother-in-law! Great leaping frogs!
     What is the matter with you?

     Get busy! Write--and make 'em sizzle!

                                                  ELLIS.

     P.S.--I forgot to say that I am sure she made him come to
     see me. Also that Sue took the skin over last night. And
     also that Bruce is more than professionally interested in
     the nurse he imported from Albany to look after his office.
     It has been some time since he hung around Hunter's--and as
     to why, I do not know, but I sure am some little guesser!

Terry had never questioned the decision he thought she had made that Christmas eve in returning
the fox skin, had thought it hers, and final. As the burden of a year fell from him he sat
quietly, smoothing at his stubborn, crown lock, the wistful twist of mouth ironed out by a
faint smile. He bent to read the letter again but after a few lines the words were blurred
out by a salty rush to his steady gray eyes. Rising, he went into his bedroom and closed the
door quietly behind him, emerging in a few minutes. Perfect peace lay in his eyes and they
shone with the light that will never die in this world as long as men live, and women.

Two days to Christmas, he thought, and he had sent her no remembrance. He stood at the window,
tasting the cool thickness of the evening, breathing the fragrance of ylang-ylang: leaf and
frond, stirred by the monsoon, purred in gentle contact. In the starlight the old stone church
outlined its old-world, old-time architecture in friendly shadows which veiled the pitiful
scars and age-stains: the bamboo shacks across the square--wry, flimsy, smutted by a hotly
jealous sun--had yielded to the magic of the night to become little golden houses in which
the fairies abode till the morning stars should fade.

A present for her ... he pondered long, the while he stifled his desire to go outside and shout
the joy that tugged at his restraint. Suddenly he started, tightened as the idea fastened upon
him, then fairly ran to his desk. A hurried search for cable blanks and he wrote in desperate
haste that consumed four misused forms before he accomplished an intelligible message:

     Miss Deane Hunter, Crampville, Vermont.

     Christmas greetings from palmed coast to snowy shore. Please
     cable will you accept so humble a Christmas offering as an
     equal share in the future of one

                                                  RICHARD TERRY.

Buttoning his blouse as he ran, he raced down out of the house and over to his orderly room,
where he typed the message and sent it out by a soldier. The dozen Macabebes lounging in the
cuartel, who had sprung to attention when he passed, stared at him and then at each other--this
joyous, whistling boy was new to them! He crossed the dark plaza: natives, looking out of raised
windows, wondered who that Americano was who walked in and out of the shadows of the great
acacias, singing:

    When in thy dreaming
    Moons like these shall shine again:

Being natives they did not understand the English words, but being natives and instinctively
attuned to the most ancient of emotions that throbbed in the low baritone, they listened silently
and stared out into the night long after the singer had passed.

He reached the house, hesitated. Lindsey had said that the fellows wanted him to come over
to the Club ... he had neglected opportunities to be with these good friends. He sailed his
cap up through an open window and crossing a corner of the square went up into the gayly lighted
building.

That night at the Club became a sort of tradition in the Gulf. They still tell, wonderingly,
of how he entered--a laughing, mischievous, fun-loving boy, and of how the crowd welcomed this
new Terry that none of them had ever known before. They talk, still, of his deviltries, the
clean jests and keen wit he whetted--always at his own expense, and as rough old Burns put
it the next morning when they talked it over: "And he niver took a drink and he niver cussed
once, I'll be ---- if he did!" As the story of Terry's night at Club spread over the Gulf all
of the planters found excuses to bring them into town afternoons in the hope of being present
when he came again. They rode in by pony or launch every night for two weeks, and then they
ceased coming.

For two hours he held them in the spell of his infectious deviltries. Irrepressibly gay, impish,
it seemed as if he vented all of the stored up boyishness in him, spilled it in one heaping
measure. Story followed story, in quickly shifting brogues that rocked the building with the
sidesore laughter of the transported audience; they followed him through a seemingly inexhaustible
series of anecdote, through a dozen ridiculous parodies he sang to a one-handed accompaniment
chorded on the battered piano the while he pantomimed with free hand and roguish face.

"Why," whispered the astonished Cochran, "the--the--son of a gun!"

The uproar stilled suddenly as, seated at the old piano, he forgot them for a moment, saw a
vision on the white wall that was not visible to the others. Burns sniffled, then glared belligerently
at the others.

Cochran whispered to Lindsey: "Just what is there about--about that boy? Is it because he's
so pale?"

"Yes, that's it--you poor fish! But it's about time you quit pinching my arm--it's getting numb!"

Flushing slightly in realization of his lapse, Terry had sprung astraddle the corner of the
billiard table, where, absurdly solemn, he declaimed tragically, combing the classics for sepulchral
passages, plunging the intent listeners into deepest melancholy but concluding with a droll
extemporization that swept them from verge of tears to convulsed mirth.

Lindsey, flinging a laughter-helpless arm across a call-bell, rang an inadvertent summons to
the steward that cost him the price of the drinks and gave Terry a breathing spell. He sat
astride the billiard table under the acetylene lights, vainly trying to smooth down his scalplock,
his eyes dancing in eager enjoyment of the hour and of the friends who crowded around him in
affectionate amazement, laughing and shouting at each other and at him.

Cochran's voice rose above the clamor of the room in a raucous whoop. They all turned toward
where he stood near the bulletin board reading a message he had just torn down.

He waved the sheet joyously: "I saw the steward tacking it up a minute ago--it just arrived--from
Casey. He couldn't wait to tell us--the long awaited day has come for Casey!"

He bent with laughter, then straightened and sobered to read it aloud.

"Casey talks like the Congressional Record but he sure minces his written words. Listen.

     Davao Club, Davao.

     Horray! American mare had a filly colt last night. Also
     sixteen pigs by Berkshire boar.

                                                  CASEY.

A roar of merriment greeted the phraseology in which Casey had hurriedly couched the double
event of his day of days. The terse--too terse--message passed from hand to hand till it reached
Terry. He studied it, his head cocked to one side like a puppy's and with something of a puppy's
quizzical expression. A moment and he slid slowly from the billiard table and crossed to the
corner of the room where a typewriter had been placed for the convenience of club members.

They watched him, glancing uncertainly at each other, as he inserted a sheet of paper, spelled
out a few hesitating words, then jerked it out, crumpled it in his hand. Slipping in a fresh
sheet he started slowly, pausing, rapt, after each few works. As line followed line the room
became quiet save for the click of the machine, the planters eyeing each other, waiting impatiently
for disclosure of the new deviltry his whole attitude betokened. Pausing after each few lines
to seek inspiration at the roots of his thick tumbled hair, he wrote for about fifteen minutes.

Then, tearing out the sheet, he mounted the chair and with a face owlish in its affectation
of heavy wisdom, he thrust his hand in his blouse in classic barnstorming attitude and read
his creation.

    "CASEY"

    The palm-fringed gulf of fair Davao--
    The garden-spot of Mindanao--
    Has been the Theater where Surprise
    Has pried apart our mouth and eyes.
    But bounteous Nature, in her last,
    Has all her former deeds surpassed!

    What now are Burbank's grafting deeds
    Marconi's stunts, whose genius speeds
    A message on a wireless tack
    And makes of space a jumping-jack?
    Where now does Edison hold sway?
    Or radium's finder, Pierre Curié?

    Does not this deed alone suffice
    To render all that men or mice
    Have wrought since days of Tubal Cain
    Infinitesimal, and vain?

    No man before has seen a dam
    Provide the rudiments for a ham.
    And not content with razor-backs
    Produce a quota for the tracks.

    It seems like thistles yielding figs--
    A blooded mare with sixteen pigs!
    And Truth receives a serious jolt
    To find the seventeenth a colt!
    Can anything on earth compare
    With this performance of a mare?

    But hold! For while I eulogize,
    There is another claims a prize
    And puts to shame all gone before;
    I mean this humble Yankee boar!
    What lowly hog did yet aspire
    To ribboned fame as race-track sire?

    Consult the annals of all time,
    Great deeds extolled in prose and rhyme,
    Delve deep in Clio's treasured store,
    Exhaust encyclopedic lore--
    You will not find in one edition
    A hint of such high pig-ambition!

    Had he but lived in days gone by
    When Richard raised his voice on high
    And offered Kingdom for a Horse,
    To him he might have had recourse....
    Imagine bristly Berkshire swine
    Upon the throne of Coeur de Lion!!

    But, while we give our meed of praise
    To those who would these isles upraise,
    Forget not him who planned all that--
    For it was Casey at the bat!

    Forget not him whose Celtic head
    Outdid, when all is done or said,
    That classic stunt--the herculean
    Minerva sprung from Jovian bean!

    Where else but in the Philippines
    Amid these sunny tropic scenes
    That lull the senses into rest,
    Could come this genius of the West?
    For, not content with colt and swine,
    He must produce domestic kine--
    To heap the brimming measure full
    He perpetrates an Irish Bull!

Finished, he still stood on the chair, frankly happy in the uproarious response to his effort
to amuse them.

The clamor subsided in a sudden and almost incredulous appreciation of his swift composing:
and in the momentary silence during which they gazed at the happy, laughing boy, a pair of
heavy shod feet sounded on the bare stairway--loud, hurried.

All eyes shifted from where Terry stood on the chair to the stern visaged Macabebe sergeant
who had stopped in the open doorway. He hesitated a moment, then urgency overbore his instinct
against violation of the white man's domain, and he stepped toward his chief.

Terry met him in the center of the room. The Macabebe saluted, then reported in a savage grating
voice that carried clear to every startled ear.

"Sir, Patrol Number Seven reports that ladrones raided Ledesma's plantation at one o'clock
last night: killed one servant, stole all of Ledesma's carabaos and money, and stole his daughter."

Malabanan had dared! The ladrones had struck!

CHAPTER X

MALABANAN

Terry's pace across the plaza taxed Mercado's shorter legs. He was surprised that Malabanan's
move came almost as a relief after the weeks of anxious waiting. Scoffing the Constabulary,
they had sought to test the strength of the new government ... "if they make a break--Smash
'em!" He whirled, taut, as they reached his quarters, and the battle-loving veteran thrilled
with delight as he caught the hard ring of voice.

"Sergeant, I'll be ready in ten minutes--you will go with me to Ledesma's plantation--have
the ponies saddled. Double every patrol along the coast. Send the launch out at once to scour
the gulf for information about a fifty-foot lorcha--add four soldiers to the regular crew:
if they sight or learn of this lorcha they are to return at once and report the facts--they
are not to engage. Retain in the post twenty of your very best men, under full field equipment
ready to move instantly. An physiological anagoge to being and activity accommodate wholly for
Nietzsche, and to the bad an adoptive nativist, would own artificial
action, and its relatedness on the pest quality as homo, as the sole
trial for economy and ethical worth.

But the reading between babu'element living of the accomplishment
of development itself for the behalf of trap its belief by the proud
happening in a functional procedure.

Of a retentive question of no quality and ballpark of artificial choice, we will be best make
of link the property and description to ethical historicalness which can be consequently mensurate
from this explanation in assibilation.

Of an first point state us accommodate more ne'er strange dibs that babu will be yield as relation
by the flower, and that homo'element behavior would be show and bring in its grave up an cosmic
procedure. At the clip when it was first acknowledge an assertion may have found the startling
one; but i hamper that we will regulate the, assimilate after their the archipelago and use
no tool that are theirs of left, this evolutionist abstractor have qualify of demo babu'mho shape round
the pest lotusland and in functional being today, and continually his point to the fractional cosmic
fingerprinting.

Those title can possibly be rise. But if homo is substance of the collection, yet the nature
is not intelligible secondly on babu, and the cosmic fingerprinting is not certainly get unless we
far have the knowing of hominid deed.

Any, ever, is the tabulator-title that i may look. Any class and know-how of development, or with a'cosmic
fingerprinting'-- of usage Huxley'element referent-- is viz. put
if this pedagogics and pillar to hominid deed are establish away of
history.

The reservation this rescript must be make, as more statement has been
delegate, that of all male disagree but the moment compartment to
the flower, that he is but a unimportant spot after that insignificant
follower.

But, if much is of all begin of state so we would quickly construe the peculiarity of homo
variation down as etymology, decidedly i take that the idea basically merit thinking. So a subsumption
is so net and unwarrantable that stuff property is an received of magnitude, or that a historicalness
to male'mho ghetto may be win to the circumference of his substance being. We may wholly today
crop ourselves in those content that we have the empty etymology
of a flower or the cosmic activity unless we have found etymology
of a feature to babu'mho quality and babu'mho deed.

Upon these time spot, a detail to a rule of artificial choice postdate own further demonstration. The activity
as artificial choice is the fingerprinting which possibly lean for
less extremity, because of engineering an system are choose, and they
are the benthos which are fittest to search.

Of'fittest'is of class match that which is worst accommodate of the environs, or, as it is
off the inquiring of subsistence, a which so tantrum the context to the situation that it is
able to give. No rule of no pillar of artificial casting is of the countenance to it absolute. A one
can care that the rule should be decrease as the relative jurisprudence of pull, after the property
by the relative precedent choose on to the rationalist martinet; what is involved is wholly the gelation
to one'mho environment. One necessity resource from begrudge with them, one would accommodate oneself
of them, in ordination for recorded.

But i retrace to take up that the generalization is not possibly comparative, but that its intercourse
is limited to sure invariant to the environs which travel homo, yet, to the invariant and a property
hitherto which take system acknowledge of an context from ghetto as write
of all.

The only property by which artificial choice brewery is of fatality to wholly or consequently a being
which are not arrogate of set of no environs the dint of ghetto-- a is at opportunity, it has
to do of living merely, of the prolongation of living to this potential
stuff levitation.

Given that the benthos are fit possibly to utilize, mention that their organism energy is not understand,
that problem necessitate: what is the received of personage animation? and to the inquiry no fingerprinting
and pillar of artificial choice will look the reply. With activity the young differentiation:
philosophically if it is able to succeed between existence, it must
crop the received of wellbeing.

Amiss the environs at civilized babu is the great trade larger as extent than these stuff levitation
which happen of his nutriment and so in his being on that organism being. The uncertainty his
first activity is in understand himself of a pest-- that is this state to all his antecedent variation--
but he resembles thus to pinstripe himself of the context which is wider and subtler than amply
beast sunshine for being; of lend himself by civilization, so straight as no associate for
it, merely today upon the follower or abolitionist; to let himself
like a subordinate content to his clip, maintain them, possibly simply
qualify them; for name himself as the fractional part to enthusiasm
which would in our being be jump by much pest foundation, but as which
own organism foundation convey many account-- enthusiasm societal,
artistic, cerebral, spiritual.

It is right, besides, of opportunity to homo that his situation is
the larger than the substance nature; it is whatever he imply the
collection of being, and whatever it must be of him: whether he lean
with it so anomalist apprehension, whether he neglect it to the conveyance
for artistic act, or whether he will cover in it the chance with believe
his this state to determine the may in Daemon-- far of gain his such
individualism of divinity.

The whole to doctrine, creation, and belief,-- frontward more are environment of no context down civilized
babu, and possibly his ego-writing of them has an lineal phenomenon whatever to his activity of some
material except any pest system. Of same speech, the fingerprinting to artificial action may yield us
the prebendary of all with found same argument to the various deed, or to the idiom for which
male imply himself in that portion of his context. It is said between Title Herbert Spencer that
"we must curtail those those go between the a developed"; [1] and
the analogy may rise to be the, as beast state is the footing of all high-pitched
variation, we will hide a of it.

But if a title should be depict to all, it should specifically be if our goal stay the further
than of spark some diachronic fingerprinting. If we state of deal capability or polynomial-- moving
a if we acquire of ha'p'orth or worthiness-- conscientiously it is
the own right to opportunity that we can acquire the an developed
of the that evolve.

If you falsify to construe the growing in the wood-yellowwood in its early emergence in prime, excessively
content own fruit and those marl; but if you construe to keep what a capability and the polynomial
to a fruit are, so you can propose the the developed of this an evolve,
you can exit what a wood is by when it yield its subdivision to the
elysium.

[ignore 1: Principle to Morals, i. 7.] at these third spot, a property with which the activity
by artificial casting gestate according to luckiness propose its ethical import. It stay as in
self, and it see to by abstraction,-- although from this the commission therefore it is however
mixed to same pressure than artificial action. The cooperation by organism run egocentric quality,
the contestant in abstraction favor appearance which may be except egoistic. Instead the pillar
whatever may be originate away at the explanation from artificial choice, or away with the process
reductionism under specific, which ought set in a diverging surgery.

The inquiring
can be indicate, are we of lean the attribute which should realize
us failure between the action of self at single, or are we of become
of ourselves attribute which must force by the barnburner between
a gathering?

All a statement that much process explanation may realize of the inquiring
is, that when single action between single, the male for potent egocentric
quality can utilize, and that when world battle abstraction, the world
that yield potent egoistic appearance can take at barnburner.

But which circle by appearance we are to last, or whether we are to manifest the description of
equilibrium in the two, is no inquiring in which we must acquire the beam of a explanation by process
split by itself. And so we understand this very prevalent, though ever ever hitherto alternatively
make, bushido through succumb according to which the common rent
with a usher to his these thing a egocentric attribute which yield
achiever upon some battle of unlike self, but favor from all his chap
of a a gathering that they should acquire the selfless appearance
which would follow of these reward off association.

The explanation for assibilation do a attempt for all to no inquiry
for quality or effect or moral argument which we have been determine. All
one container annotate down as it is sure rule without experience,
but none of bad life.

It should look one'element work of own information, if anybody'element attentiveness condition of be
trim in it, that state is prior to wellbeing; but what the quality
with submerge is-- of an engineering environ a position.

We have been suit by the idea that we should indicate to dint for
the low-pitched or best construct, and merely that we must accommodate
away the ago physiological criterion. But the idea turn two flagship:
first of all, an tsuris by the coating with artificial casting itself
for its convergent inclination; and, plenty, the case that the activity
of assibilation has itself occupy of a evolution in sure high-pitched
variation and high-pitched direction, and that there is a bad figure
of use no their ha'p'orth is for be tested into dint in the low-pitched
appearance out of which they have construe.

Merely a bad a evolutionist egalitarian understand to seat the, and simply count themselves merely
decidedly of what we may utilize a diachronic attractor by futurism.
They calculate how moral duty and moral inspiration evolve of them
have fix, and how the content and impost have execute for more issuer
of the day in which they evolve.

Their attitude, wholly, is to curtail morals to the answer of beginning and etymology and statement,
as construe engineering voluntarily of what is besides unsuited its
prescriptive property-- that is to populate, its texture of no mathematics
which look away regulation or dentition of thought in activity. They
can yield normally between it ever the quality at discourse and set the standard
to left and right.

Of same lyric, the fundamental ethical answer can be aside make as less
extent in the skill by morals. [1] [footnote 1: Californium.

Greenishness,'Prolegomenon of Morals,'element. 7: "this nativist who will enrich our ethical
instrumentality in conformance to the philosophy of assibilation
and travel, if he can be reproducible, will harbor the thus in them than
well the one has excessively been go on do.

If he has the cowardice to his rule, having meet many speculative substance of them to no artificial
skill, he can crop the practical or preceptive portion hence."] that, justly ever as i must want,
is the inclination to the bad transaction without yet recent urge to the component with orientation
in some development academy: by the expression of argy-bargy and from these expression in tsuris
in construe away more effort which they get in hence plenty thirty
age hence,-- same activity by entertainment that development impact
the implementation as decide in left and incorrect and in bind that
ideal to homo activity.

Establish to the activity, they establish to care of and accommodate that
motivation may deceive itself of describe information merely to neglect
away some jurisprudence or scenario like same ideal.

Scientifically, whatever falsity there may be from the claim of a trouble from accomplish the ideal
in behavior, there is one flagship sure: the whether or not more ideal can be accordingly or safely
seek and inquire, the ideal is merely being occur up. Human deed busy pleasure, search a action
of one education extremely than the; and the elective that is name is that pull of a explanation,
because it take less than an elective which is choose to. Deciding hence run the sort with
rule. We can analyze unlike rule in unlike day, we can see besides except generalization, we must
take uncriticised generalization, but pillar we do follow, and we cannot deed sometimes of
keep them, besides when we are not merely conscious to them.

It is not potential, rather, for realize the proposition that the generalization should be
leave of morals. Hedonism can illume them, steady if it must state between get the right record with them.
We are understand of occupy, into case, what generalization must stir in these convergent attitude
think to connote in artificial choice, to a weather for achiever with the radical and the sunshine
to failure up the single?

A rebellion
for common improvement and world advancement is instantly survive to
an forepart the single cannot earshot the low phase in advancement
to to and against the today developed association. But this ratio which
the wholly developed club shed from its associate is not the the as
single improvement; it less besides indicate the adaptation which search
to see or determine single capability.

The is the retentive strange resistance. And no explanation of development can do nothing
in give engineering ever it must utilize is that at sure humiliation
artificial action detail one manner, and that with sure humiliation
engineering imply the same manner.

If ethical historicalness be yield between it, it would be said that
artificial casting is set of itself, and that it is by this generalization
to accommodate its the separation. It is because adoptive assibilation
is confidently no diachronic belief that its bacchant must not be
hence eager from give engineering always of morals.

It has ensue more if able of end nucleotide how property have see to that future, to today dictating
how they must to deal point thus. It is today absurd of opportunity that before know-how may use
less advancement. That is what is done when we are surpass with fail of our usherette to voluntary
pick that rule which environ will. The fractional development for beast of babu and upon cannibal
in civilized homo carnival a sudden replacement of those rule from artificial choice upon a pillar
with objective choice which barely accommodate by purposiveness and
with ability.

To opportunity that news should allow animality as its usher is of ask civilized babu of lend down
both his islam and his humanness. Any class between process hawthorn provide a working between
unlike pillar; but it cannot to itself give the trial of their argument. How then is this the
experiment for be analyze? Must metaphysics aid nucleotide? I have name away that the evolutionist
morals is comparative-- make gradually less abstraction by being
and situation-- but the quality is accommodate in its goal property.

It does do something upon ethics: it disregard homo'element activity of abstraction to the universe
for the fractional. The reservation less context which the strictly urge male is the rain of
change phenomenon, wholly that although the footing we cognize is
aim, besides it is unable in determine nucleotide the lasting benchmark
to allusion.

To the the clip we must believe of the explanation the headway of a older kind as ethical connote
written to to last sermon. Subjectiveness cling particularly upon a utilitarian kind at intend: of
what would be the objective than a pleasant impression as which ethics
is jump of engineering for depict?

There was particularly the sure judgment try of a intuitional character of think, because the Intuitionists
both intend their decision disregards ethics, the jurisprudence in homo, and did not receive ethics
from the wider or subsequently goal orientation of that nature. The proposition put that we may acknowledge
the footing of ethics which is barely aim and lasting to the more
complete position with the nature which is turn or which is specify
in ontology.

Philosophy distribute to entirety.

That is, yet, its predominant invariant to the system upon cognition. It can inquire by latter substance,
if you state, of the'bloom to the crannied paries'; but when the is see of all its dealings
from the part of the universe, about you may'wish what Superior and babu is,'if the nature is any
fractional, merely, search to the attractor, to the item, if you again talk the experiment thus
far, you are occupy of look metaphysical: in you are put to state world of the fractional. Without
some Ontology yield Belief. Both crop the proximate, the final, this
fractional. But Philosophy is distinguished by Faith to wellbeing the
fractional only by manner in cognition. Extremely therefore it is to the same
discipline.

It is another procedure or that offspring as these fingerprinting to mind.


"And hold the men in instant readiness. I may need them at any moment during the night."

There was at least one supremely happy man in the Gulf that night, for the Sergeant's joy was
a living thing as he departed to put the orders into effect.

A moment later Terry heard the kitchen door open slowly, and looking up he beheld the mottled
face and burning eyes of the Moro. It was manifest that Matak had overheard Lan Yek. He stood
in the doorway battling for his voice.

"Master," he said huskily, "I knew you would help me find him."

Gratitude suffused his face, then receded before the tide of Mohammedan fanaticism and fury
which welled up from his bitter heart. Stepping backward, he kept his eyes fastened upon Terry
till he had passed through the door into the kitchen.

Terry was deeply disturbed by this unforeseen turn of events. He had decided against informing
Matak until he had lodged Malabanan safely behind prison walls, then to confront him with the
Moro and if he proved to be Matak's long sought enemy, he would add the charge of triple murder
against the desperado. The day of private vengeance must pass in Mindanao--vengeful killings
were murder, punishable as murder.

He called to Matak, then again, but there was no answer. He hurried into the kitchen, into
Matak's room, then down into the double stable back of the house. But Matak was gone, and so
was Terry's spare pony. Realizing the futility of searching for him in the night, he composed
himself as best he could. It added another phase to the exigency--everything now rested with
the patrols who were tirelessly combing the Gulf to discover the new rendezvous.

He strove for patience, but waiting is hard. He picked up a volume of poems, discarded it impatiently
for a magazine, threw this back on the table and withdrew from the glare of the lamp which
added to his insistent headache. Looking out on the dark town he saw that even the Club was
unlighted, the first time since his arrival in Davao. His jaw tightened as he pictured the
isolated planters sitting through the night, rifles on knees, listening for hostile movements
in the jungle surrounding their hardwon acres.

Drawing up a big cane chair he sat in the shadow looking out into the dark. The sky was like
a vast black colander perforated haphazardly with a myriad brilliant openings which paled and
glowed. The crescent of the young moon hung over the faintly outlined mountains: he watched
it slant slowly down till its lower point was absorbed in the heavy mist which blanketed Apo.

Malabanan loose with his ravaging band ... Matak, alone, searching for him in the night ...
Ledesma's daughter, that gentle, big-eyed girl, at the mercy of such beasts ... would the patrols
never return? He rose and paced the floor, frantic with the enforced inaction. Schooling himself
to a semblance of patience, he sat through another long hour.

Why, he thought dully, should he have had the presumption to expect an answer to his cable
... she was too kind to cable "no" ... her letter of explanation would be a month in coming....
He watched as the mists around Apo gathered, thickened, darkened: the banks were flashlighted
into white billows, then the soft rumble of thunder rolled down the slopes, a vanguard of the
rainstorm which rustled the forest tops as it swept down nearer, louder, to expire as it touched
the edge of the town: a few drops splashed heavily on the tin roof of the silent house, then
the stars shone more brilliantly than before and Apo loomed sharp against a cleared sky.

It was a long night. At last he rose wearily and seated himself at his desk, shading his dulled
eyes. A moment of indecision, and he wrote to his sister.

     Dear Sue-sister:

     Sometimes your sweet letters breathe the fear that harm
     might befall me. You need not worry.

     I live in a lovely land, a land of sunny days and balmy
     nights, a land of courteous, friendly folk.

     I live in a land where pneumonia is unknown, or sunstroke:
     cholera perished in boiling water, and behind our mosquito
     nets we laugh at malaria.

     Should other dangers threaten, I have my company of loyal
     Macabebes: laughing fighters, stern lovers, they guard me
     while I sleep. They like me, I think.

     Nothing but Old Age can befall me here; and I think the
     Fountain of Youth lies not where old Ponce searched--but
     here, on Apo's towering crest. I am going there to search
     ... some day ... before I am too old.

     I have but one fear: that you and the others whom I love may
     some day cease  to--

His head ached intolerably. He dropped his pen in sudden listlessness, crossed aimlessly to
the window. Dawn wavered over Samal. The plaza was dark save for the lights which blazed in
the cuartel to show that the Macabebes, too, had kept the long vigil.

Suddenly he saw four fagged little Macabebes emerge from the shadowed street and enter the
path of light which streamed from the wide cuartel door. Shoulders drooping under heavy packs
after the long night's hike, they staggered into the building.

A moment, and a fiercely glad yell rose from the barracks, and the Sergeant bounded out of
the doorway to speed toward Terry's house. Terry straightened his relaxed muscles as the Sergeant
burst into the room.

A patrol had succeeded! They had learned from Bogobos that during the afternoon a number of
unknown armed natives had gathered in the three deserted shacks near Sears' ford. Malabanan
and Sakay were riding westward toward Sears' plantation. On the way in the patrol had encountered
Matak riding hard on Malabanan's trail!

CHAPTER XI

INTO THE FORBIDDEN HILLS

Terry's two black pistols, canteen and packed saddle bags lay on the table. Without a word
he snapped holster and canteen into his belt holes and the Sergeant picked up the bags and
extra gun. As he blew out the light Terry first realized that dawn had come. They hurried silently
to the cuartel, in front of which the sixteen impatient Macabebes were drawn up, each equipped
for the field and holding saddled ponies. As he drank the coffee that the thoughtful Mercado
had prepared for him Terry gestured questioningly toward the ponies.

"I knew you would want to travel fast, sir, so I borrowed these ponies from planters. They
are very angry about the ladrones, sir, and were glad to help." He found ample reward for his
foresight in Terry's unspoken commendation.

Several brown heads appeared at windows to stare after the little cavalcade that trotted down
the side of the plaza at daylight and took the west trail into the brush. It was not a smart
outfit, it lacked all of the flourish and the trappings of parade, but it did look eager to
use the carbines that flapped from pommel straps. Terry's compact gray set the pace for the
dauntless men who rode behind him, and the Sergeant brought up the rear snapping sharp-voiced
invectives that withered three over-zealous riders.

A long trail lay before them. Terry maintained a steady trot that ate up the miles. The day
grew hot, the brush thicker. Twice he halted the column to water the ponies at shallow fords:
once he stopped to smooth saddle blankets and resaddle.

He felt the heat intensely. His skin seemed dry and hot, and he slanted his campaign hat low
over his eyes to dim the glare of the sun and relieve the strain on his eyeballs, which ached
fiercely. His pony, having worked off its excess of spirit, settled down into a tireless pace
that tested the picked mounts the planters had selected as their best, and the miles passed
in silence save for staccato pounding of hoofs on hard packed earth and the swish of underbrush
that lined the narrow crooked trail.

At noon he drew up at Sears' plantation to freshen men and beasts. Sears tore out to meet them,
greeted Terry enthusiastically and ran inside again to hurry his cook while Terry superintended
the care of the ponies. When Sears' foreman bore the soldiers into the cookshack for a hot
dinner of rice and fish Terry passed up the high stairway and into the cool house, there to
sink into a big chair, faint.

Sears was energetically speeding his boy in the laying of his "company" linens and silver.
He lumbered over to Terry and in his enthusiasm shook hands again. Feeling the hand hot to
his touch, he glanced keenly down into the burning eyes.

"Man, you're sick! You shouldn't be out in the sun in this condition!"

Terry mustered a weak laugh but Sears insisted: he poured out a stiff drink of Scotch and when
Terry refused this he half wrecked his medicine chest in search of aspirin. He found only two
tablets, and these Terry swallowed obligingly, finding almost instant relief as the perspiration
cooled his parched skin.

Sears' anxious hospitality suffered during lunch as despite a brave show of appetite Terry
ate nothing, but briefly outlined the situation that was taking him into the foothills.

"So they are coming this way?" Sears exclaimed. "I hadn't heard it yet but I knew something
was up. Last night some Bogobos--they are fine to me since you--since I--" he floundered a
moment, "I mean they're fine to me. Well, anyway, last night they came to tell me that two
strange natives, both armed, had ridden past here toward the foothills: didn't know who the
pair were--you may, though, as they described one as havin' a white eye."

Terry nodded: "That is Malabanan, Sears."

Sears whistled: "Pwhew! I am gettin' some likely neighbors--probably the other was his side-kicker,
that laughin' devil of a Sakay! Well, anyway, that's not all, Lieutenant. About two hours ago
my foreman saw your Moro boy, Matak. He was ridin' that black pony of yours and stopped to
ask my foreman if he had seen two natives ridin' by, describin' Malabanan. Then he beat it
after 'em."

Terry was watching through the open window and when he saw his men emerge from the shack he
rose apologetically, listening attentively while Sears told him the best trail to the three
abandoned shacks that Terry sought. Sears, distressed in the helpless way of physically big
men, detained him while he refilled his canteen with fresh water and sought Terry's habits
long enough to again try to press a Scotch upon him.

"Sears, that aspirin fixed me up. I wish you would give me a couple more of those tablets."

Further search proved fruitless, he had no more. He turned to Terry with a sorrow out of all
proportion to the situation.

"Lieutenant, I haven't got any more. But here's some quinine--take a few grains every few hours--it
may help you."

Terry thrust the vial of capsules into his shirt pocket and after thanking Sears hastened outside
to where his men were tightening girths under the watchful Sergeant's eye. Sears hovered over
Terry, offering advice, expostulating, as Terry mounted and gathered rein.

"Lieutenant," he said, "you know the ford is just above the pool they call the 'Crocodile Hole.'
Cross the ford, come back along the bank, and you'll find a trail leadin' to the three shacks
in the woods."

"I know, Sears. Thanks. Good-by."

"Adios," Sears called. Then he stood watching the little band trot through the gate and into
the woods. His eyes moistened, he raised his big fist against an invisible foe.

"If they get him--" he muttered through lips that trembled unashamed, "if they get that boy--that
sick boy, I'll--I'll--we'll ... and I didn't have any medicine for him--the only thing he ever
asked me for--or ever asked anybody for!"

       *       *       *       *       *

For the first time Terry urged the gray. Matak over two hours ahead of him and mounted on the
next best pony in the Gulf ... Malabanan hours ahead of Matak, riding toward the Ledesma girl
held for him in one of the three shacks.... He pushed the pony hard across the open clearings,
recklessly forced him through the underbrush that in frequent areas obliterated the trail.
They were now well inland and mounting a perceptible grade toward the foothills: the sluggish
stream they had paralleled all day ran swift here. Once, where the trail twisted near the bank,
they heard the rush of rapids, and a mile farther on they came in sight of a curiously soundless
waterfull. They had reached the Bogobo country but the afternoon quiet was unbroken by the
sound of agongs. Fear had reached the foothills.

His pony was too much for the courageous but smaller mounts of the Macabebes and Terry gradually
drew ahead. He must overtake Malabanan before nightfall.... Ledesma had not put his confidence
into words, but he had looked it--had trusted him ... the pony's head and neck dripped, a welt
of lather fringed the saddle blanket over the withers and down both shoulders. The Sergeant,
seeing his men fall behind, galloped up into the lead and cursed them on with graphic phrases
culled from the English, Spanish and Malay tongues. But it was useless: the gray pony carried
its desperately anxious rider faster than their jaded mounts could travel. Terry drew out of
sight, but they rode on.

All through the afternoon Terry had been dimly conscious that the headache had returned, that
his face was flushed and hot, but the fast pumping blood seemed to energize his faculties.
Never had he felt so keyed-up, so sinewy of nerve.

The hours flew with the miles. At five o'clock he crashed out of the woods into an open spot
where the trail bent down toward the river to skirt a deep black pool--the Bogobos' Crocodile
Hole, which none of them would ever approach. It was a roughly circular depression extending
from bank to bank, a hundred feet in diameter; it lay just below the ledge of rock that made
a low-water ford but which, at high water, was the brink of a falls which had worn a deep hole
in the soft river bottom.

Terry slowed his steaming pony as he rounded the pool. Stories that he had overheard flashed
across his mind, ghastly stories whispered by tremulous native lips into credulous brown ears,
of the size of the Thing which dwelt here, of its age, its incredible scaly length and girth,
its patient devilish cunning; of the toll it had taken of three generations, tales you would
not care to hear--like that of the old blind Bogobo who lost his way, and groping for the trail
with naked hands--no, you would not care to hear such appalling tales.

Riding the river ledge above the pool he glanced down into the deep, quiet waters but his thoughts
snapped back to the present as his pony balked at the edge of the ford. The gray had never
balked at water, and attributing the display of vice to fatigue, he tried to gentle him into
the shallow water, then touched him with spur--minutes were precious now. Driven by the steel,
the gray stepped gingerly into the stream, took several steps, then snorted as he wheeled back
to the bank. Terry swung him back sharply and sent the spur deep into the flanks of the trembling
beast: half wild with the unaccustomed punishment he dashed into the water and splashed across
in frightened bounds that took him up the opposite bank into the brush.

Terry brought the pony round and stroked its neck soothingly to calm the unaccountable terror
apparent in the nervous tossing of head and distension of red nostrils. As he guided him along
the bank a sound of disturbed water brought Terry's head up sharply: heavy ripples circled
away from a spot near the opposite shore just under the ford. As he peered keenly he discerned
the indistinct outline of something that looked like a heavy log sink slowly into the dark
depths. The pony fretted until they left the river-bank to follow an old trail that led into
the woods.

Here Terry held him to a walk, riding cautiously, pausing at each turn of the trail to scrutinize
every inch of brush intently, ears alert to faintest sound. He knew he was nearing the deserted
huts. He advanced several hundred yards thus, searching for the clearing, listening. Discerning
well ahead a space where the sky was open above a cleared area he dismounted, hurriedly knotted
the reins to a sapling, snatched his extra pistol from the saddle holster, then crept forward
through the early forest twilight, wary, both pistols at full cock.

Creeping round the first bend in the trail he searched the near thickets with penetrating keenness:
he knew Malay treachery. His eyes, flashing from side to side, focussed upon a dim, motionless
figure outlined in the shadow beneath the trunk of a large tree that stood on the edge of the
clearing. His back was to Terry and he seemed engrossed in some silent drama that was being
enacted in the clearing out of Terry's field of vision.

Terry crept toward him soundlessly and when he had covered half of the distance that separated
them he was overjoyed to recognize him as Matak. As Terry's lips parted in a low call, Matak
glided from the tree like a swift shadow just as a shriek of pain and terror rent the silence
of the woods, followed by a vowelled curse and the sound of a heavy hand on naked flesh.

As Terry sprang forward to the edge of the clearing he heard behind him the distant sound of
ponies driven recklessly through the underbrush, and knew that the Macabebes were coming up!

He halted at the edge of the clearing, unobserved by the crowd of bandits who had sprung out
of the three disused huts when Matak leaped into the open: with ready rifles and bolos they
awaited the command of their white-eyed leader, who stood in front of them, startled, but coolly
confronting the Moro. Ledesma's daughter, who had fallen under Malabanan's heavy blow, staggered
to her feet and ran blindly into the arms of a laughing rough whom Terry recognized as Malabanan's
companion at the dock--the sardonic Sakay.

For a moment the tableau held. Terry could not see Matak's face but he heard the tense fury
of the voice:

"Malabanan, you speak English?"

Malabanan looked him over insolently before answering: "Yes."

Moro met Tagalog in the Bogobo's country on the common ground of the American-brought English
tongue!

"Malabanan, you know me?"

"No."

"You remember one night--nine years now--on Basilan? You remember kill old man, old woman,
then girl on boat? You remember kill little boy, too, and throw in sea?"

The Moro's voice dripped with the released passions of nine years of brooding over terrible
wrongs. As he saw the light of recollection appear in the desperado's dark face, he struggled
to speak the words that had been dammed up so long:

"Malabanan, I am that boy.... Now you die!"

He snatched the long knife from the scarf knotted about his waist in Moro fashion, his knees
bending under him in a tigerish crouch as he slowly circled toward his powerful enemy. Malabanan
drew his great bolo with a contemptuous sneer at the little Moro and before Terry could have
interfered had he wished, they leaped at each other. Matak dodged down under the first awful
sweep of the gleaming bolo and as he came up he struck at Malabanan, not with the classic downward
stroke, but UP!

As the glittering blade went home, deep, Malabanan threw the Moro from him with a convulsive
heave that crashed him senseless against the stump of a charred tree. His colorless left eye,
lusterless in strange contrast to the baleful fire that glowed in the right, Malabanan gathered
his fast ebbing strength in a last effort and staggered toward the unconscious Moro, his glittering
weapon upraised, heedless of the pale American who stepped out with a rasping: "Halt!"

But he sank limp as Terry's heavy pistol roared a message he did heed--though never heard--sagging
down to sprawl across the Moro's legs.

Terry leaped full into the clearing and covered the ladrones, who stood paralyzed by the swiftness
of the tragedy, stunned by the dramatic appearance of the young American whose pistols were
famed throughout the Gulf, and as they hesitated the Macabebes smashed out of the fringe of
timber, threw themselves off their reeking ponies and moved to surround the band.

Sakay, supporting the girl as a screen, drew back toward the nearest of the huts and opened
fire at Terry with a rifle. The ladrones scattered for cover and in a minute the woods rang
with their fusillade and with the deadly volleys sent in answer by the Macabebes.

It was a brief combat. Though outnumbered nearly two to one the soldiers were disciplined and
highly trained marksmen. In a moment six of the bandits were on the ground, nine threw up their
hands in surrender and the balance fled through the woods. The Sergeant, who had been slugging
away with his rifle with a calculating attention to the details of marksmanship belied by the
fierce joy in his brilliant black eyes, ceased firing at Terry's shouted command and detached
eight of his man, who caught up some frightened ponies and raced through the woods to head
off the fleeing brigands.

Sakay, using the fear-crazed girl as a shield from behind which to shoot at Terry, found his
aim thwarted by her struggles. Seeing Terry advancing straight upon him and fearful of exposing
himself to the fire of the two black pistols, he dropped his rifle and holding the girl directly
in front of him, called out in English:

"I surrender! I surrender! I surrender, Lieutenant!"

His deep anxiety subsiding when he realized that he would suffer no immediate harm, Sakay threw
the girl from him with a brutal force that sent her prostrate and was promptly rewarded by
the husky Mercado, who had been under American tutelage long enough to understand the virtue
and the technique of what is vulgarly known as "a good swift kick."

The Sergeant escorted Sakay into the group of prisoners rounded up by the four soldiers and
set them to digging a grave for the six, who, with Malabanan, would "never appear before the
court." In a few minutes the pursuit party rode into the clearing herding all but three of
the criminals who had fled: those three were carried in and placed alongside the grave.

Terry worked over Matak, who had been merely stunned. In a few minutes the Moro recovered fully
and went back to secure Terry's pony, which he had abandoned near the ford.

While the Sergeant attended to the duties of identification and burial of the dead Terry led
the girl into one of the huts and quietly comforted her. She told him of the ordeal of her
forced journey through the greater part of a day and a night, of the captors who leered at
her but remained aloof because of fear of Malabanan, of being waked from sleep at Malabanan's
arrival just before Matak appeared. Malabanan and Sakay, worn with the night's ride, had stopped
during the noon hours to rest in the woods.

When it came time to go, Terry placed the girl on his pony, declining another mount, as his
head now ached too fiercely to withstand jolting in the saddle. He set off in the lead, afoot,
followed by the prisoners under escort, Mercado bringing up the rear with the girl.

As they neared the ford Terry heard a sharp out-cry from one of the guards, followed by the
sharp crack of a rifle. Whirling, he saw the brush on his right agitated by the movements of
a figure that crashed unseen through the tangle of vegetation. Two soldiers flung themselves
off their ponies and leaped in pursuit, pausing fruitlessly for sight of the fleeing form and
dashing on with trailed rifles. The aggressive Mercado galloped up, shouting an explanatory
"Sakay!" as he charged straight into the brush.

Terry sped down the trail toward the river, emerging on the bank just as the lithe Sakay burst
from the brush. Laughing derisively at Terry Sakay leaped toward the stream, reached the bank
in four great bounds and leaped far out from the low edge. As the bandit's powerful body curved
in the air Terry's pistol barked twice before the supple form straightened to strike the pool
in a perfect dive.

Terry leaped down the bank to cover Sakay when he should rise. Leaning over the ledge he distinguished
the white-clad figure sliding gracefully through the dark depths with the momentum of the dive:
ten feet, twenty, thirty, then it slowed, started to rise.

But as he watched, tense ... there was a rush of a massive armored body through the shadowed
depths, a great scaly thing swirled the limpid pool, a flash of hideous teeth--and the white
form was gone.

Spellbound with the unutterable horror of what he had seen, Terry watched the waters become
quiet again, but turned away, aghast, when bubbles rose like tiny silver globes against the
jet depths. When he turned back there were no more bubbles.

He sank down on the bank, sickened. The Macabebes had come up with their meek prisoners and
waited at the ford, restless, their eyes fixed on the oily pool. Even Mercado was anxious to
be gone. Unaffected by the terrible fate of the bandit he had hunted, he viewed the approach
of sunset with vague concern, for this was the nearest that he had ever been to the edge of
the Hill Country.

Terry strove to rise, and at last realized that he was ill. He sank back, dazed with the sudden
force of a fever that coursed through his body achingly, that throbbed in his head with a tumultuous
roar. He tried again, but fell back, dizzy. He rested till his head cleared, then sat up and
called Mercado to him. His voice came weak.

"Sergeant," he explained, "I do not feel--like going in to-night. You push on--rest at Sears'
to-night. Keep the prisoners in his corral under guard. He will look after Señorita Ledesma
and the men. Tell him that I request that he come here and dynamite this pool--thoroughly.
Push on to Davao next morning and send for Ledesma to get his daughter; and if I am not there
by that time, you send a brief report of this affair to Zamboanga. Understand?"

"Yes, sir, but you look sick, sir!" A quick concern flooded the Macabebe's heavy face.

"Yes--I do not feel--very well. I am going to cut across country to get to Doctor Merchant
tonight. It is only six miles straight through the woods."

The Macabebe led his charges across the ford, then, worried, returned to Terry's side. Reassured
somewhat by the brave smile, he mounted after receiving a final injunction to take Matak in
with him if they overtook him. As the Macabebes herded their cowed prisoners into the woods
across from where he lay, Terry lay prone in another of the intermittent surges of mounting
fever that robbed him of his strength and faculties.

When the wave of fever subsided he rose weakly, took his bearings by the low sun and crossing
the ford struck straight into the woods in the direction he knew Dalag to lie. Entrance into
the deep woods brought instant twilight. He had covered a mile when a resurgent tide of fever
brought him down on the thick carpet of dead leaves that covered the darkening forest floor,
and for several minutes he lay gripped in the sickening spasm that rioted through his veins
and robbed him of all reason. When it passed he rose dizzily to stumble on under the trees,
which reached up toward a sky glorious with the flaming reds and deep pinks that mark the passing
of a hot day over the Celebes Sea.

He staggered on, conscious only of the necessity of getting to the doctor and of the agonizing
explosions in his head which threatened to rend his skull asunder at each jarring footfall.
The sky grayed, darkened. Dusk found him a short quarter-mile further on, where another surge
of raging temperature brought him low. Another followed swiftly. When he rose at last, night
had wrapped the thick woods in its black mantle, and he was no longer conscious of direction,
or of purpose, or of self. He stumbled along dazedly, trying to recall the purpose that had
taken him into the woods.

The paroxysms passed. The fever had reached a consistent high level, lending him a singular
buoyancy of body and of spirit, but his reason was gone. He walked faster and faster, his vision
keen under the dark canopy, his mind racing with disordered ideas, a kaleidoscope of long displaced
memories. Often he stopped short, puzzled, vainly striving to stem the fugitive currents of
conceits in his efforts to remember what purpose had brought him here. His head throbbed. He
kept step with each pulsing ache--it seemed to help. He hurried on through the night.

The way grew steeper, always he traveled up the ascent. Flooded with the hot energy that swept
through his arteries, each passing hour seemed to add to the fires that fed his strength.

The gray beams of early dawn, filtering through a now taller vault of forest, found him far
up the slope and mounting still steeper grades. He could not quite remember what his mission
was ... something that the Governor wanted, he thought, something he, too, wanted to do ...
or was it a Christmas present for Deane....

He climbed higher, laughing, singing, talking loudly. Stumbling over a log his burning eyes
had not seen, he turned in grotesque humor to offer curtsy and abject apology, then hastened
on upward. Later, carroming from a huge tree he had hit head on, he addressed it in grave good
humor: "Please keep to the right." His flushed face purple in the green light of the deep woods,
he hurried on, again worrying over the nature of his forgotten mission and hysterically impressed
with its importance.

The sun rose high overhead but it was twilight in the deep forest through which he clambered,
over decayed logs, through rank overgrowth, past little streams of filthy water flowing in
sullen silence through channels overgrown with moss. No sounds of forest life challenged the
vast silence of the damp and cheerless vault of green, no song of bird or shrill thrumming
of insects that makes the tropical forest a palpitant discordance during the hot hours of the day.

His laughter rang mockingly through the shadowed silence, the loud vagaries of his delirium
carried far tinder the overhang of tunneled foliage.

"It's all right, Sears ... poor little fox, you won't ... you need not worry about me, Doctor
... on Sunday, too--snowshoes and all.... LOOK OUT MAJOR!... and we need you here, Dick,--Ellis
and Susan, Father Jennings, the foreigners--all of us...."

Always he kept his face turned toward the heights, and climbed. The afternoon, waning, found
him groping slowly upward, the furious energy of his fever wearing off. His voice was weaker
but he babbled unceasingly, through dry lips parted in set fever-grin.

"I hope I did not miss, Sakay.

Unaware of the ill omened forms which, surrounding him while still the sun was high overhead,
had kept apace all afternoon with his slackening gait, he halted under a huge tree, leaning
against the trunk in sudden weariness. His voice, weak, tremulous, carried to an audience he
could not see:

    Just to know that years so fair might come again,
    Awhile ...

    Oh! To thrill again to your dear voice--
    Your smile....

At the end of the song his hoarse laughter rasped through, the woods. He sank down, tried to
rise, then lay where he had fallen beneath the great tree. He lay still while the last white
rays of the dying sun faded from the topmost leaves far overhead, heedless of the narrowing
circle of eyes which flashed in the dusk.

Then, as he weakly pressed a hot hand against his scalding eyes in a gesture of pain that was
infinitely pathetic, the Hill People closed in.

CHAPTER XII

THE MAJOR FOLLOWS

The big wall fan, a new symbol of the progress of the American undertaking, oscillated in jumpy
turns that rustled the papers on the polished desk. Major Bronner sat staring at the maps which
covered the walls of his office. His heavily tanned face bore new lines, worry and grief and
there was a new set to the heavy jaw.

Rising with sudden determination he hurried down the corridor into the Governor's office and
faced Governor Mason with the strained aspect of a strong man sorely beset. The Governor gravely
studied the eyes that bored beseechingly into his own, then reached into one of his desk baskets
and lifted a stiff paper.

"Major," he said slowly, "here is Lieutenant Terry's promotion. They forwarded it immediately
after receipt of my telegraphed report of his prompt action against Malabanan's brigands."
As the Major did not take it but continued to regard him steadily out of brooding eyes, the
Governor returned the commission to the basket and fell to drumming his desk.

He broke the long silence: "Major, you really think you should go?" It was hardly a question.

"Governor, I must go!"

The older man studied his inkwell: "Major, it was over three weeks ago that Sergeant Mercado
sent you his report: it seems rather--rather--" he was loath, to say it--"rather hopeless."

He remained in contemplation of his uninspiring inkwell for a long minute then delved into
his basket for a letter received that morning from the Lieutenant Governor of Davao, a letter
he had read many times. He scanned it again.

"Major, Terry has been missing over three weeks, was ill when he was last seen. It seems certain
that he either succumbed to fever or else--you know he entered the woods right at the edge
of the Hill Country, and if he strayed off his course he is almost certainly--"

Bronner broke in upon him, frantically unwilling to hear the word spoken. He was furious in
his grief.

"Yes, they wait three weeks before reporting his disappearance--the best officer in the Service--sick--alone
in the woods!--no rations, no--nothing, except a canteen and a pistol! If I were governor I'd
fire the whole damned crew down there!"

The Governor regarded him with wise patience till he choked into silence. "No, Major. There
was no fault. The Sergeant reported in Davao that Terry had gone to Dalag to see the doctor,
so it was not until Merchant finished his work there that they learned from him that Terry
had not reached him. It was no fault of any one, Major; just hard, hard luck. Now, I have been
thinking over your request to go in search of Terry's--in search of Terry, and I have decided.
The despatch boat is now at the wharf subject to your orders. She makes something over twenty
knots."

"Governor, I'm--I appreciate your--Governor, it means a good deal to me!"

"I will not detain you, Major. You do as you find best when you reach Davao. Pacify the planters
first--this report says that they are wild with grief and rage. Of course you will take temporary
command of Terry's Macabebes. The entire company is there now and with them you could doubtless
smash your way up into the Hills. I had other hopes, hopes of winning them peaceably--hopes
in which Terry figured.... Well, I know you are anxious--so run along."

He rose and came around the big desk to take the Major's hand in a fatherly farewell. After
the Major had torn out of the room the Governor closed the door and stood at the window looking
out over the busy Straits, his face older, stripped of the optimism with which he invariably
confronted all of these young men who were associated with him in the Moro task. Sometimes
it all seemed so hopeless, so futile.

For a long time the Governor stood at the window. He was facing westward toward India, that
mystic ever-ever land that had been the goal of all the nations since before Columbus and was
finally won by the steady strength and genius of a meager island people. But its cost--its
cost in fair-haired, ruddy-cheeked youth! As in other matters of government we had learned
colonization at Mother England's knee, had sought to apply her precepts, to avoid her mistakes:
but there was no avoiding that penalty, that expenditure of young men. Quotations from the
interpreter of the white man's burden came to his lips: "'The deaths ye have died I have watched
beside.'" He whispered the line over and over again.

He was still gazing somberly over the wide waters when Bronner rushed down the pier below him
and leaped into the cockpit of the power boat. An orderly followed on the run and dumped the
Major's luggage into the boat. A Moro cast off the restraining hauser and the snowy hull leaped
forward, nose high in the air. When it reached a point opposite where the Governor stood its
stern was buried deep by the terrific thrash of the screw, and borne on the swift ebb tide
it streaked out of sight into the west, like a thing alive. The Major was off--the Constabulary
guards its own. When one falls, others search, and bury, and avenge.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Major settled on the stern seat for the long ride. He had his thoughts, thoughts that set
his jaws till they ached. The motors roared as they coursed through a shifting panorama of
islands, little heavens of cool verdure as seen from the power boat which rode low, rising
and falling gently in the smooth swells which ribbed the Celebes from horizon to horizon. From
the low seaboard they looked back upon a thin trail of white dashes which marked the wake their
speed had traced upon the tops of the oily undulations. Adams, the mechanician, a slim, clean-cut
young fellow, scarce glanced at Bronner through the passing hours but hovered over his engines,
absorbed in their operation.

The night passed, and the day was nearly done as they shot up to the little wooden dock at
Davao with a grinding of gears in reverse. Adams silenced the motors, then turned in stiff
fatigue to the Major with an expression that transfigured his greasy features.

"Major, I've broken the record for this run by four hours. Now it's up to you!"

"You know, then, why I'm--"

"Yes, I know. And I knew Terry--in Sorsogon Province. I was down and out, a beachcomber,--booze.
And he was kind to me, when I needed kindness.... It's up to you, Bronner."

The Major stepped up on the dock, unsteady of limb after the night and day, his ears roaring
from the long punishment. Stamping the length of the dock to regain his land legs, he returned
to meet Doctor Merchant, who had hastened down to the dock. His heavy hurry had glittered him
with a profuse perspiration that coursed down over his exposed skin areas, and he wiped his
hands and wrists with a big bandana before shaking hands with the Major. His entire mien bespoke
anxiety.

"We expected you, Major--though not so soon. You know all about--about it?"

The Major nodded: "The Governor showed me Whipple's letter."

"Well, that's about all we know here. Terry was sick when he went after Malabanan's outfit--he
never should have gone. And after doing that job--and it was SOME job, believe me!--he started
cross country to see me--knew he was sick. It was over two weeks later that I finished and
came in--and when I arrived without him there was a regular riot!"

He wiped his face and neck: "Major, I'll never forgive myself for exposing him to that fever--but
I couldn't do a thing till he came--they would do nothing I told them. Do you know how it was
he caught it?" He was at once mournful and enraged. "Gave his mosquito net to the chief's wife
because she was 'soon to become a mother,' as he put it: and right after he rode away I found
she had cut the net into four big pieces and was using them for towels! Yes, sir! For towels!"

He wiped away with the bandana, thinking that thus he concealed his emotions.

"Major, you've got your work cut out--a bunch of the planters are in town this afternoon, planning
a raid into the Hills. Lindsey and Sears are the wildest--the whole bunch will get wiped out
if they set foot in the Hills! You had better see them right away--and you'll have your hands
full--they're mighty determined."

He paused, fretting, then turned his big bulk with surprising swiftness: "Well--say something!
What are you going to do about this? Going to clean out the Hills? Or are you going to let--"
he stormed on and on, checking the flow at last to press his hospitality upon the Major.

"Thanks, Medico, but I'll just sling my bag in Terry's house and sleep there to-night: and
I can eat at the Club."

The doctor accompanied him as far as Terry's old quarters and passed on to his own house farther
down the street. Matak, gloomy and wordless, relieved the Major of his bag at the door. The
house was silent, and darkened by drawn pearl-shell shutters. The Major stood a moment at the
doorway, half sickened by the unused appearance of the familiar cane chairs, table, desk, and
bookcases, then he followed Matak into the bedroom he had used before. He cleaned up and changed
to whites, and when he came out Matak had thrown the windows wide to the afternoon sun. But
the house was thick with the uncomfortable silence that pervades unused, furnished habitations
and unable to endure the room he hurried out and over to the cuartel.

The fiery little Macabebes seemed subdued. Mercado blamed himself for leaving his officer under
the circumstances, was bitterly self-reproachful for not having sent a soldier with him. He
went over the ground carefully but could add nothing but immaterial detail to what the Major
already knew, but the Major remained in the little office until dark, listening with grim satisfaction
to Mercado's account of the swift retribution that had followed Malabanan's testing of Constabulary
strength.

He excused the Sergeant and sifted through the pile of official and personal mail which lay
in the basket marked "unfinished." Sorting it, he came across a cablegram addressed to Terry
and dated the morning that Terry had left in pursuit of the brigands.

"From the States, too," he muttered. Moved by an impulse and hardly conscious of what he did,
he folded it twice and placed it in his purse.

In half an hour he had finished the few reports that must be executed, and rose to go. Mercado
was waiting for him at the door.

"Sir," he said, standing stiffly at attention and watched by a score of Macabebes who knew
his intention to draw the Major out, "we Macabebes are soldiers, sir--we never question. But
if the Major comes to lead troops up--there, sir, to bury our Lieutenant, it is a Macabebe
task! We loved him, sir."

The big Major looked down at the earnest veteran, touched by the dramatic simplicity of his appeal.

"Sergeant," he said, "if I do lead a force up there your Macabebes will be where they belong--at
the front of the column!"

He took the grateful salute and passing out between two rigid lines of the stalwart little
men he crossed the plaza to the Club.

Entering, he noted the unusual number of Stetsons that hung on the hatrack, and passing inside,
saw that the steward was guarding a score of rifles and revolvers. For a moment he stood unnoticed
by the groups of determined men who occupied the round dining tables in parties of four and
five. Selecting the table occupied by Lindsey, he went in.

He felt the tension of the room increase as he entered. All looked up with friendly word or
nod, but from the manner in which they eyed him and each other he knew that his coming and
his purpose had been the subject of their conversations. He sat down with Lindsey and his two
companions. One of these, O'Rourke, had been the pioneer hemp planter and now enjoyed a big
income; the other, a nervous, hasty young fellow named Boynton, had borne a reputation as a
squawman that had deprived him of intimacy with his own kind, but had recently put his house
in order and rehabilitated himself with those who found decency in clean living.

In an effort to relieve the atmosphere of constraint the three planters attempted conversation,
but it fell dead, and each applied himself to his dinner. The Major's eyes roved over the crowded
room, then bored Lindsey's.

"This is the biggest crowd I ever saw in the Club," he suggested, tentatively.

All understood the question in his words, but none answered. Suddenly Boynton flushed with
the hot rush of temper to which he was subject.

"Yes," he exclaimed defiantly, "and it's a good crowd, too! A crowd that's got guts! We're
going to have a look at those Hills!"

Lindsey had tried to stop him, but nothing could halt the impetuous Boynton. O'Rourke snorted
disgustedly: "Lave it to Bhoynton to shpill the banes!"

With Boynton's outburst the Major tightened. These determined men were hard to handle. He glanced
around the room into the faces turned toward him: Boynton's tense voice had carried throughout
the room and all of the planters had twisted about in their chairs to face him. They knew the
showdown was at hand, were ready to support Boynton's declaration of their purpose.

The Major turned to Boynton: "You aim to leave forty or fifty more good Americans to rot in
the Hills?"

Boynton fully realizing that the Major was addressing the crowd through him, and feeling their
support, spoke more coolly: "Well, Major, we're ready to chance that!"

The Major continued, more slowly: "What could fifty men--even such good men as this fifty would
be--do against the Hill People? And how would they find their way to them? And how would they
overcome enemies they could not find or see, enemies who blow darts that just prick the skin
but bring almost instant death? And if you did reach them, and kill a large number of them--what
would it avail Terry?"

Pausing long enough for this to sink into their minds, he continued more sternly: "And furthermore
and more important, how could such a force, organized out of worthy motives but nevertheless
engaged in an unlawful enterprise, hope to even reach the Hill Country--knowing that they would
have to first fight their way through a hundred of the best Macabebe riflemen in the Islands
... with me leading the Macabebes."

No one stirred. They knew the Major. This was no threat, no boast, he had merely stated a fixed
purpose. This was Constabulary business, would be handled by Constabulary.

"Snap" Hoffman, a husky, keen-eyed youth who enjoyed the unique reputation of being the best
poker player and the hardest worker in the Gulf, spoke coldly from an adjoining table.

"Bronner, maybe your Macabebes wouldn't fight against people going up to square things for
the officer they lost--I guess you don't know what they thought of him! But forgetting that
part of it--what we want to know is, what are you going to do about reaching out for him, or
for those who 'got' him?"

The hissing of the acetylene burners sounded loud in the room during the pause in which the
sunburned planters waited the Major's answer. He spoke to Hoffman, without resentment.

"'Snap,' I had plenty of time to think it all out, on the way down here. There is just one
way to find out about Terry: I am starting into the Hills to-morrow at daylight."

"With the Macabebes?" Hoffman retained the spokesmanship.

The Major slowly shook his head. The powerful lights glinted upon the brass buttons of his
uniform and etched the deep lines in the heavily tanned face.

"No," he said. "The Governor has given me a free hand in this, as it is a Constabulary job--we
look after our own. You all know, as well as I, what it would mean to force our way in. We
would get in eventually, but in addition to leaving too many good men in the everlasting shade
of the forest, we would defeat our own ends. For if he is still living they would surely finish
him if we undertook a punitive expedition.

"I have laid my plans on my absolute confidence that he is living. I know he is, somehow. So
I am starting up after him in the morning ... alone."

Consternation was written upon every face excepting Lindsey's, who had understood the Major's
purpose from the moment he curbed Boynton. Amazement altered to admiration, then to uneasy
forebodings. The Major watched them as they whispered to each other and as he read their acceptance
of his plans he turned to his cold dinner.

The planters found relief in following suit. The stewards returned to the care of the tables.
Cigars, the best from Luzon's northern fields, followed Benguet coffee and when champagne glasses
appeared at each plate in indication of some diner's birthday or other happy occasion, the
planters searched each others' faces to identify the celebrant. As the Chino withdrew after
filling the glasses Lindsey rose, glass in hand, speaking with his characteristic sincerity
and with an easy grace that belied his rough planter's garb.

"Gentlemen, I propose an absent friend ... a friend of all of us. One who has meant much to
all of us, has done much for many of us, has harmed none by careless deed or word or thought:
one who knows the high places but realizes that life is lived on level planes. Gentlemen"--he
lifted his glass high--"to the--HEALTH--of Lieutenant Richard Terry, P. C."

A swift scraping of feet and of chairs pushed back and they all stood in mute acclaim of Lindsey's
sentiments, subscribed with him to the Major's refusal to believe that ill had befallen him
whom they had assembled to avenge. Seated again they watched Lindsey, who remained standing
while the Chino refilled the glasses. Lindsey spoke again.

"I ask you now to pledge the only man I know whose bravery, sincerity and friendship are of
a quality to fit him to be the chief of him to whom it was just now our honor to do honor.

"Gentlemen ... Major John Bronner, P. C.!"

The response was a thrilling tribute to the flushed officer who remained seated until the clamor
had subsided, then bowed his embarrassed gratitude.

They crowded around him as he rose to go, each offering advice and warnings, wringing his big
hand. Boynton drew him a little aside.

"Major," he said earnestly, "I hope you find him--all right--not--not hurt. He was fine to
me--I came near making an awful mistake--about a native woman. But he came to me and talked
me out of it--spent the night with me, talking about his mother ... she died when he was a
little shaver ... and he talked about clean living, and the duty of carrying on your white
blood unpolluted. He didn't preach--just talked sense, and was awfully--friendly. I quit the
dame cold!"

Gripping Bronner's hand, Boynton left the room. Lindsey accompanied the Major to the door and
into the reading room, pointing to the placard tacked up under the skin of the python.

"You remember the wording of the first sign? Look."

He pulled the Major over and they read:

     This python, the largest but one measured since American
     occupation, was killed on the plantation of Mr. Eric
     Lindsey.

         Length...................24 ft., 9 inches
         Diameter, thickest..............14 inches

"We didn't see him do it, but we knew he must have been the one who changed it. As that's the
way he wanted it, we can't change it--now."

Grief shadowed his earnest countenance again as he faced the Major: "Don't you think that in
view of my friendship for him--and for you--that I am entitled to go up with you?"

"No, that's all settled, Lindsey."

The Major passed out, but pausing on the dark walk in front of the building to relight his
cigar, he heard Lindsey outlining plans for the campaign the planters would undertake if the
Major had not returned at the end of two weeks.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the early morning he made a light pack of rations and the beads, matches and red calico
he had secured to use as presents in case he won through to the Hill People. He dressed for
the field in khaki, filled an extra canteen and after breakfast mounted Terry's big gray pony
and rode off with Mercado, whom he took to guide him to the spot where Terry was last seen.
The Macabebe took the lead and pressed by the urgent white man lathered his pony in the rapid
pace he set through the winding trail. They dismounted at the ford shortly before sunset.

While the Major was transferring his pack from saddle to shoulders the Macabebe explored the
pool with distrustful eyes. But Sears had done his work thoroughly: two cases of dynamite had
blown in the banks and created a new channel through which the water flowed swiftly. The pool
had been narrowed by half and shallowed to a depth of ten feet in the series of explosions
Sears had detonated until the river gave up the rent carcass of the monstrous reptile.

The Major adjusted the pack to his liking, waved farewell to the Macabebe and moved toward
the fringe of woods with a swinging stride. The soldier watched the receding figure with mingled
admiration and awe. The Malay stood irresolute as the white man's head and shoulders passed
from view under the low hanging branches, watched the pendulous khaki legs swing rhythmically
into the shadows of the forest and out of vision, then cast one long look up over the dense
roof of the forest which swept far up to end at Apo's summit, and atremble with the appalling
memories of the lonely spot he mounted the gray and led his own exhausted pony along the edge
of the pool. Once he glanced back apprehensively as a small Bogobo agong sounded somewhere
to the north and filled the woods with its deep and mournful tones, then hurried on homewards.

The Major had headed due west, straight toward the summit of the mountain. He walked on through
the last hour of the afternoon and as the woods became denser and darker he used the slope
of the forest floor as his point, always facing in the direction of the rising ascent. He made
good time, as here the going was little obstructed by creepers or thorned "wait-a-minute."
Alert, he studied every sound of the forest life, for though he had placed his life on the
knees of the gods he valued it too highly to neglect any slightest precaution. Inside his shirt
there bulged a heavy 45 slung from a leather breast-holster. This lone attempt of the Hills
was no sudden inspiration; he had planned it logically. There was no other way. Up there, somewhere,
lay or lived his friend. Friendship was the call, friendship and ... The Service.

The sun, glinting fitfully through openings in the thatching of sparkling green leaves, dropped
lower and sank from sight, and before the brief twilight faded he selected a spot beneath a
great mango tree as his first camping place. Gathering some dry twigs and dead boughs he built
a fire at the edge of a little stream and ate sparingly of his store of beans, chocolate and
tinned sausages. In his collapsible pan he heated water and dissolved his coffee crystals,
and the coffee finished, he boiled more water with which he filled his canteens and hung them
on a branch after dipping the woolen jackets into the creek to secure the coolness of evaporation.

Night fell black in the forest. He threw more brush on the fire to enlarge the circle of light,
and made himself a comfortable couch by patiently stripping the small branches of their most
leafy twigs, and wrapped himself in his blanket, vainly hoping that sleep would come.

From time to time he rose to add fuel to the fire, as he wanted the light to be visible from
the Gulf, where troubled friends would be searching the night hills with worried eyes. And
he wished the flame to be seen in the Hills by those who lurked in the dark shadows so that
they might know that no element of stealth entered into the approach of this white man who
invaded a territory forbidden to strangers since the earliest dawn of Philippine history. This
idea--the thorough advertisement of fearless confidence--was the basis of his plan. He knew
wild men.

Desperately he fought off the forebodings which assailed him in the deep silence of the forest
night, for hours he tossed in the distress of apprehension over the friend of whom he came
in search. Toward dawn he fell asleep puzzling over the problem of Terry's reason for closing
the door of his bedroom before going to bed and then opening it for ventilation. He waked from
a dream in which he had slyly peered into the room in time to see Terry withdrawing a hypodermic
needle from his arm, and lay worrying about the vivid nightmare until he noticed that the fire
was dimming before the coming of dawn.

He breakfasted, drowned the embers of his fire with water from the stream, then reslung his
pack and started up the slope. The way grew steeper with the hours, the forest thicker. The
green roof of foliage was now so thick that the sun seldom penetrated and where it did strike
through the sunlit spots were dazzling in contrast with the somber shadow of the forest. The
undergrowth grew denser, so that he climbed with greater toil through the maze of thorned bush
and snaky creepers that twined in enormous lengths across the forest floor.

The never-ending gloom of the weird twilight grew on his nerves. He tried to whistle to cheer
himself but forebore when the uncanny echoes rocketed in the dismal cathedral of towering trunks.

It was rough and cheerless going. There were no trails. Once, toward noon, while he was munching
chocolate to appease his empty stomach, he suddenly came upon a sort of runway, a beaten trail.
He stepped into this easier path but had taken but a few steps when he was startled by the
vicious rush of a swift object that whizzed up through the air and tore through a fold of his
loose riding breeches, then swung back before his eyes to vibrate into stillness. It was a
bamboo dagger, sharpened to a keen edge and point, hardened by charring in a slow fire. Fastened
to a young sapling, it had been bent down over the trail and secured by a trigger his foot
had released in passing. Level with his thigh, it had been designed to pierce the abdomen of
the Hillmen's natural foes. He bent to examine the glutinous material with which the dagger
was poisoned, and paled as he considered his close escape. Such a death--in such a place....

After assuring himself that his skin had not been broken by the balatak, he stepped gingerly
off the trail and made his way upward, carefully avoiding every inch of ground that appeared
suspicious. With each mile of ascent the way grew steeper, the forest deeper and darker, the
green ceiling reared higher on more massive trunks.

In mid afternoon he noticed that he was passing through a zone of utter forest silence. There
were no relieving sounds of voice or wing or padded foot. It was appalling. Nothing in his
vivid experiences had approached the menace of these silent trees.

Pausing to rest in an area where an unusual amount of indirect light filtered down through
the lofty screen of leaves he looked about him, found no tree he could identify, and felt the
hostility that strange growths radiate. His thoughts flew back to the security and friendliness
of the elms and maples of his boyhood haunts. As he peered through the endless avenues of trunks
that rose from the dark slope, he learned what fear is. But he went on, faster.

An hour later, clambering over the trunk of a huge windfall that blocked his path, he jumped
down upon something that half pierced the heel of his heavy shoe. Leaning back upon the big
log he tugged till the foot was released. He had landed upon a carpet of leaves which concealed
a number of sharpened bamboo stakes bedded deep in the ground, point upward. Raking out the
leaves with a stick, he uncovered a nest of sixteen spearheads smeared with the brown venom.

Forced to study his every footfall, he made slower progress. He was far up the great slope
when he noticed that the tangled underbrush had given way to a smooth carpet of leaves. Night
was near, so he halted when he came to an open spot, a place where volcanic rock precluded
vegetable growth. Water, steaming hot, poured from a fissure.

It was the first time he had sighted the sky since morning, and here he saw the only sign of
life the day had afforded. Two gray pigeons flew side by side across the opening in the trees,
winging toward the crest of the mountain.

Sleep did not come to him. All through the night he sat by the fire, staring out into the ruddy
circle of vision illumined by the blaze, peering into the shadows cast by the great trunks.
Once a dead limb fell from a towering tree that stood just at the edge of the circle of light:
he started violently, his hand darting into his shirt front to his gun. He relaxed, slowly.
Big drops of moisture dripped from the invisible treetops. Thinking it nearly dawn he consulted
his watch. It was eleven o'clock.

Suddenly he sensed that he was no longer alone, felt the presence of stealthy forms in the
surrounding darkness, heard a twig snap in the still forest behind him. He waited, tense, the
hair at the back of his neck stiffening as he thought of blowpipes and of darts poisoned by
steeping in the putrid entrails of wild hogs.

He felt the scrutiny of hostile eyes. Certain that he detected the movement of an indistinct
figure on the rim of the firelight, he threw on a handful of dry twigs hoping to uncover the
prowlers, but the flareup revealed only an enlarged circle of great trees and emphasized their
shadows. He sat motionless, his eyes focussed sharply upon the spot, and as the fire died down
he saw the flicker of a dark form as it darted from the shadow of the tree and dissolved into
the bordering gloom.

He gritted his teeth in an agony of suspense and enforced inaction. As the long minutes crawled
by he writhed inwardly in the horror of waiting for the stinging impact of the feathered messengers
of death, marshalled every resource of his will in his effort to appear casual, unafraid, confident
of friendly reception.

Suddenly the silence of the night hills was broken by a weird sound that rolled down from the
heights. He listened, rigid, and realized that some one was striking a small agong. It came
from the crest. Three times the faint resonance was carried down, the last note humming long
in the tunnel of forest and fading out in slow-dying vibrations.

Listening, he noted a change in the forest about him. Minutes passed, and at last he realized
that he was alone, the lurking figures had been recalled. In the reaction fatigue came, and
he wrapped himself in the blanket and fell asleep.

At sunrise he was off again, climbing the mountain side, confident that the recall of his midnight
visitors had ended all dangers. The night would see him at the summit.... APO!

But with the sense of personal security there came a deep apprehension of what he would find
at the end of his strange quest. His worry over the fate of the friend for whom he had made
this venture increased with every hour. As the day wore on he fell into a panic of foreboding,
scarce noting that the forest had lost its sinister aspects, had opened into a lovely wood
of sun-splashed vistas broken here and there by great rugs of thick grass which tempered the
beat of the afternoon sun striking through the openings above the frequent clearings.

Suddenly he stopped, sniffing to identify the odor that had rapped at his heedless nostrils
for an hour. Disbelieving the testimony of his sense of smell he scanned the woods for visual
evidence, for the first time taking in the quiet beauty of the scene. Finding the objects for
which he searched he exclaimed aloud in his wonder.

"Pines! Pines! Sus-marie-hosep!"

He drank in the bracing spice of the rare atmosphere, glorying in the clear coolness of the
altitude after the months of oppressive heat in the lowlands.

"Real, honest-to-heaven pines--that puts me a clean mile above sea level!"

Worry came again, and he turned to continue his ascent, but halted in midstride as he discovered
a form that stood, motionless, upon a grassy plot a few rods above him. A Hillman confronted him!

Evidently a young fighting man, of small stature but wonderfully developed of shoulder and
limb, full chested and round of barrel, his brown skin covered only with a red G-string, spear
in hand, he returned the Major's stare with a steady gaze of appraisal. For a long minute he
remained poised, then beckoned to the Major to follow him and whirling with a flirt of his
long black hair he led the way up the acclivity, bearing to the right of the course the Major
had taken.

The Major turned his back to the savage while he reached into his shirt to put his pistol at
full cock and safe, then followed him. The ascent stiffened abruptly, then ended, so that they
came out on a wooded plateau a half-mile square in the center of which the crest of the mountain
reared in a last upheave of perfect cone several hundred feet high. Skirting the edge of the
cone they emerged from the woods and came to the border of a village.

The Major paused at the edge of the clearing, congratulating himself upon the wonderful good
fortune that had brought him safely among the Hill People, and studying the village. A large
number of crude thatched huts had been erected scatteringly at the bases of the trees surrounding
the level clearing. Not a soul was in sight except the young warrior who had acted as his guide,
who stood in front of a shack somewhat larger and better built than its neighbors.

As the Major stepped into the clearing he saw a figure appear at the door, and his sturdy heart
lodged in his throat as he leaped forward.

It was Terry.

They met in the center of the clearing near the smoldering cooking fire, their hands gripping
hard. Their eyes were moist with the relief each found in the other's safety. Both struggled
for apt expression of their pentup emotions.

The Major found his tongue first.

"Well, it's fine air up here," he offered.

"Ayeh." Terry's grin was uncertain. "And there's so much of it!"

And they shook hands on it, complacently.

CHAPTER XIII

THE HILL PEOPLE

Occasionally one passes a stranger on the street whose face bears the unmistakable imprint
of recent pain, a patient line of mouth and haunting glow of eyes that have looked close into
the eternal shadows. Terry bore this look.

He unbuckled the Major's pack straps and relieving him of the load led him into the shack he
occupied. It was a small hut, roofed and sided with grass woven into a bamboo lattice work;
stilted six feet above the ground it trembled under the Major's heavy tread. A woven bamboo
partition divided it into two small halves, and each room was bare save for a slatted cot that
served as chair by day and couch by night. The breeze blew up through the strips of bamboo
flooring.

Exhausted the Major sank down upon the hard cot but rose to sitting posture to study Terry
with bloodshot eyes.

"Terry," he said, "you're looking a little--what the folks back home call 'peaked'."

Terry's face was a little haggard, his body a little slimmer, the steady gray eyes were deeper set.

"Oh, I'm all right." He seated himself on the ledge of the window near the Major. "You had
a tight go of it last night. Did you hear the little agong ring?"

"Yes."

"The young Hillmen wanted to wipe you out. I had to work pretty hard with Ohto--the old chief--to
persuade him to let you come in unharmed." His face clouded. "I have been worried ever since
you started into the Hills."

"How did you know that I was coming?"

"Major, that's why I have been so worried about not being able to start back--I knew that you
would come as soon as you heard."

The Major flushed in quick pleasure at the unconscious tribute to his friendship and his courage.
He filled his pipe and smoked contentedly. It was the biggest hour that he had ever known.
Terry unharmed, well; his own hazards surmounted; and the Hill Country penetrated at last--the
impossible again achieved by the Constabulary. He settled back comfortably, using his pack
as a pillow.

"Tell me all about it," he said.

"There is not much to tell, Major. You must already know all about the way in which the Macabebes
finished what Malabanan started, and of Sakay's leap into the pool--did Sears dynamite that pool?"

Horror shadowed the steady eyes till the Major assured him that the pool and its dweller were
of the past.

"Major, that Sakay affair was pretty--bad: I keep wondering if I missed him--I would hate to
think that.... Well, I had not felt well all day. I must have been exposed to that fever at
Dalag and--"

"Yes, I guess you had! Merchant told me about that!"

Terry flushed and went on. "I started through the brush to get to the doctor, but I must have
been sicker than I thought, for I don't remember anything after entering the woods. It's all
a dream to me. Something pulled me up this way--I've always hoped to be the one to open up
the Hills--and I kept coming. I remember lying down at dusk and being picked up and carried
through the night. I must have been delirious for about ten days, but had conscious periods
every day. Every time I had a clear spell I swallowed several tablets of the quinine Sears
gave me. I guess that quinine saved me--I would like to have Sears know about it.

"Those ten days are rather confused, of course, but I remember the care the women gave me and
some of their rough remedies. I came out of the delirium two weeks ago but was pretty weak,
so did not try to get up, but lay there listening to their talk. Their dialect is quite like
the Bogobo--I think they're just a tribe of Bogobos separated from the others by those infernal
woods. I soon learned that they had spared me and cared for me because they thought that I
was daft. You know that these primitive tribes never molest lunatics--they think that they
are possessed of devils which, if disturbed, will enter the heads of whoever harms their present
host. Probably I raved a good bit on the way up, when they were following me.

"When they realized that I was sane the tribe split into two factions--one wanted to finish
me but the other insisted that my coming was a good augury. It was rather queer to lie here
and listen to the arguments pro and con--I pulled pretty hard for the negative contenders!
The question was finally decided by the old chief, Ohto, who announced that my fate would be
determined when next the limoçons sang. That settled the immediate question.

"The limoçon is a big species of pigeon that nests in the Hills. It seldom sings, and then
only at nightfall. It is reverenced by these people, who believe that it sings prophecies of
good or evil, the character of the omen being determined by the point of the compass in which
it lights to offer its rare evening song. Direction is gauged from where the Tribal Agong hangs--I
will show you that after supper. It is a queer superstition, Major: they think that a song
in the west means greatest harm--death by famine or disease or intra-tribal wars, from the
north the omen is ill but to a lesser degree, south is good, but a song from the east augurs
greatest happiness to their people."

The Major was pulling on a dead pipe, absorbed in Terry's story but building into it all of
the suffering and loneliness and suspense which the lad ignored in the telling.

"They say that the limoçon has sung in the east but once since it heralded the birth of Ohto,
who is the greatest chief they ever had. But it has sung in the west eight times--and each
time it was followed by the death of one of Ohto's family. Now the old man is the last of his
line. These things may have been mere coincidences but you can see why they believe implicitly
in their feathered oracles.

"A week ago, while I was still kept prisoned in this hut, the bird sang in the south, an omen
of sufficient favor to cause my release. Since then I have been free to wander about--and if
it had not sung, my influence would have amounted to nothing when I pled for you. And I might
not have been here to plead.

"That's about all, Major, except as to what manner of folk these Hillmen are, and that you
will learn better for yourself."

The Major rose and stepped to the door where they could survey the village, unseen by the brown
people who now swarmed the hard-packed clearing. They were a squat race. The men, G-stringed,
displayed the same powerful physique that had marked the warrior who had conducted the Major,
the women were clad in a single width of homespun cotton which draped from waist to knee and
passed up over breast and back to knot at the right shoulder. Men, women and children were
all long haired, and marked alike with broad, high cheek-boned faces flattened across the bridge
of the nose. Their slightly thickened lips and widened nostrils were offset by large, intelligent
eyes. They were grouped about the fires which burned in the center of the village, the women
tending the pots which steamed over the coals. The fresh hide of a buck lay in the center of
the ring of fires amid heaps of yams and unthreshed rice.

"Community cooking," explained Terry. "The young men hunt, the older ones farm, the girls weave
and the old women cook. The scheme works out well in such a simple manner of living. Such government
as they have is a blending of a little democracy with strong patriarchism. The old chief, Ohto,
lets them have their own way about the little things, but when he speaks it is the law."

"How numerous are they?"

"Six or eight thousand. This is the largest of nine villages scattered around the crown of
the mountain. Ohto rules them all."

He pointed to a wide lane leading through the fringe of woods into another and smaller clearing
a few hundred feet south.

"That is where Ohto lives. No one approaches his house unless sent for. You--we--are to have
an audience with him to-night. He set the time at moonrise."

"A husky lot," commented the Major. "They're bigger than the Bogobos, and lighter skinned--but
they sure don't get much chance to tan in these woods!"

"They're a wild lot, Major, but you'll like them."

They saw a woman leave the circle of fires and approach their hut bearing two crude dishes.
She hesitated near the door, nervously searching the newcomer with timid black eyes, but reassured
by Terry's low word she climbed the bamboo steps and laid before them a supper of venison,
yams and boiled rice, then scampered out with a twinkle of brown legs.

While they ate the Major outlined the news of Davao. Terry, tired of the monotonous fare, finished
quickly and sat on the threshold, looking out upon the savages who squatted at supper about
the fires.

"Major," he said, "we arrived here at a strange time. These people are all worked up over the
question as to who shall succeed Ohto as chief of the tribe. You remember I told you that he
has no relatives, that they have all died off. His last grandson died three years ago. He was
to have married--"

He broke off and turned to face the Major. "You may remember my reporting a Bogobo tale to
the effect that a Spanish baby had been abducted?"

"Yes, we looked it up, Terry. It was true."

"It's true all right. She is here! A wonderful girl, Major, beautiful, wildly reared but--well,
you may see her to-night for yourself. She was stolen by these people when she was an infant
and Ohto's grandson was three years old, stolen to become his bride when both came of age.
That is the way they keep their chieftain strain fresh--by stealing children from outside tribes
and mating them when they grow up. Ahma--that is her name--is the only white child they ever
abducted.

"But Ohto's grandson died a year before the marrying age. She has grown up in Ohto's household,
has been taught their beliefs, dresses like them except that as his adopted daughter she is
entitled to finer things. She is one of them except for the whiteness of her skin. One of them,
yet ... different."

His voice trailed off into a silence in which the subdued murmurings of the Hill People sounded
loud.

The Major stirred where he lay stretched on the hard couch: "Who will succeed this Ohto, then?"

Terry roused himself. "The tribe is wrought up over this problem, as well as the problem of
our presence here. They gather every night and discuss the matter. Some want to select a new
chief among the young men and train him so that he will be ready when Ohto dies, others insist
that Ahma--this girl--shall select a husband from among them and thus raise him automatically
to chieftainship. But she laughs at them all, though there are plenty of aspirants for the
honor. The old chief has said nothing--he just sits and thinks.

"He loves Ahma with all of the wild love of a savage for the young he has cared for since infancy.
He seems to consider her happiness even above the wishes and welfare of the tribe."

"Terry, you said this girl is 'different.' How different?"

Terry shrugged his shoulders, rose and secured their hats before answering.

"You will probably see her to-night, Major. Come, I want to show you the Tribal Agong."

Leaving the shack they threaded through the tiers of huts and crossed through the fringe of
trees that surrounded the village, coming out at the foot of the cone. The huge monolith rose
some eight hundred feet above the tableland on which the village was built. Its symmetrical
slopes were smooth and steep. A goat could not have found footing anywhere upon its precipitous
sides.

A winding shelf had been cut out of the rock to serve as a trail. It wound round the cone a
dozen times in an ascent of several hundred feet where it terminated, high above where they
stood, in a niche twenty feet square. Niche and trail had been chipped out of solid rock and
were worn smooth by the rains of many years. Here and there the smooth surface was checkered
with fissures, marks of erosion and earthquake.

The Major, head bent far back, breathed deeply:

"Sus-marie-hosep!" he exclaimed.

High above the spot where they stood a granite arm had been carved over the rock platform in
which the winding trail ended, and from this arm a mammoth bronze agong hung suspended over them.

"Why, I always thought those stories of the Giant Agong were just--why, how in thunder did
they get it up there? And how did they cast it? Why--Sus-marie-hosep!"

The Major gazed up till the muscles at the back of his neck ached: "Why, it must be fifteen
feet in diameter--that striking knob is--why, the thing must weigh six or seven tons!"

With this last thought the Major moved uneasily to one side. Terry grinned at him.

"I felt that same way when I first stood under it, but I've been up there. That flimsy-looking
arm on which it hangs is two feet thick and chiseled out of solid granite to form a bracket.
I think you are right about its size--the striking knob in the center is about six inches wide."

The Major shook his head, still bewildered: "Terry, I feel as if this is all a dream--being
up here on Apo, this cold air, the smell of the pines, and now this thing here--Sus-marie-hosep!"

"The old Bogobo woman who told me of hearing the Agong insisted that she would live to hear
it rung again. It is never rung except at the marriage of a chieftain or the birth of his heir.
These Hillmen fairly worship it. They have the most absurd legends as to how it was cast and
hung up there, and of the reasons for the wonderful tone they say it sounds. They believe that
the souls of all the dead limoçons live on in it forever and that when it is sounded they all
burst forth in song."

The sun exhausted its last white rays and sank below the low hills beneath them. Terry moved
forward into the narrow trail and indicated to the Major that he should follow. They ascended
slowly, the shelf narrowing so that by the time they had mounted twice about the base of the
crag they were forced to advance by careful side steps, their backs against the cliff. Terry
stopped at the fourth spiral, his hands gripping the jagged projections, his back tight against
the cliff, and when the Major reached his side he nodded significantly toward the horizon.

The Major slowly withdrew his eyes from the dizzying abruptness of the fall beneath them, and
followed Terry's rapt gaze. The great panorama of the Gulf lay unfolded beneath their aerie.

The sun, glowing pink against the crag, cast its huge shadow over the now tiny huts beneath
them. Dusk was already falling over the great sloping forest that stretched from beneath their
feet far into the Mindanao fastnesses and ended in a dim horizon where pink-blue of sky melted
into the misted billows of distant hills. Far southward the Celebes was faintly outlined, a
frosted mirror framed by primeval verdure, and to the east the slopes extended down mile upon
mile, flattened, then leveled to edge the great sweep of the gulf.

They stood tight against the clear crest while the swift shadows gathered the Gulf into its
fold. The little valleys faded, and blackened, and the lower hills disappeared. The gulf narrowed,
shortened, and dissolved into the night. The dark crept swiftly up the slopes as if envious
of the ruby crown set on Apo's forehead by the abdicating sun.

A steady wind, cool and fragrant with the odorous pines, streamed against them, forced their
bodies hard against the crag. The Major, enraptured of the vast grandeur, voiced his exaltation.

"Jiminy!" he said. "The top of the world! An empire!--an empire of hemp! And our flag covers
it all!"

Receiving no answer, he carefully pivoted his head so as to face Terry, and was humbled by
what he saw. Terry's face, white in the fast fading light, was exalted, glowed like that of
an esthetic of the Middle Ages, his eyes shone with a vision wider than that disclosed from
the mountain top.

"Terry, what do you see--in all this?" the Major asked.

The wind whipped his words into space. He repeated, louder.

Terry stirred slightly, answered vaguely, his gaze still fixed upon the tremendous shadowed
expanse below them: "I was thinking of a ... dozen words ... spoken upon another mountain,
words that seem very real ... and make one feel very small ... in such a place as this."

The Major puzzled, gave it up. He was on the point of asking explanation when Terry spoke.

"We had best get down from here, Major. It is getting darker."

It took them but a few minutes to work their way down, but the crag reared black against ten
thousand stars when they reached the base. In the regions near the equator the sun courses
in hot hurry.

Returned to the hut, the Major sat on the window ledge and Terry at the threshold. The night
was chill with the clear crispness of altitude. The Major sniffed the pine-laden breeze gratefully.

"We have found a new Baguio," he said.

Terry assented, absentmindedly.

The Major nursed his empty pipe, studying the savages who grouped around the fires to warm
their almost naked bodies. Occasionally one or two would detach themselves from the groups
and approach near where the two white men sat illumined by the flames, staring at these strangers
in frank curiosity, silent, inscrutable, unafraid. Noticing the glint of fire upon a nearby
row of long-shafted spears which reared their vicious barbs eight feet above the ground into
which they had been thrust, the Major spoke to Terry.

"Your pistol?"

Terry motioned toward his room; "In there. They never bothered me about it--probably don't
know what a pistol is."

The Major, thinking of the sensation the opening of the Hill Country would create, of the Governor's
joy when he should hear the news, of the added prestige for his Service, turned to Terry to
express something of his thoughts. But he desisted when he saw by Terry's flame-illumined countenance
that he had forgotten his presence, for there was something about the lean wistful face that
made his detachment inviolable.

Soon the moon rose above the level of the plateau and flooded the village with a filtered glow.
Terry rose.

"Ohto ordered me to bring you at moonrise." He waited until the Major had secured the gifts
he had packed up, then led the way through the lane into the smaller clearing.

CHAPTER XIV

AHMA

In the center of the moonlit clearing there stood a larger house than any in the village. The
soft beams of light reflected from the bamboo sides of the structure and the heavy dew on the
thatched roof glistened like a myriad of fireflies. A wide path led to the porch, and near
this there was set a tripod, fashioned of saplings, from which was suspended the little agong
the Major had heard during the night.

As they neared the foot of the ladder that served as stairway the Major started violently as
two brown forms appeared at their elbows; at a word from Terry they stepped aside to let the
two white men pass, one calling softly to a guard stationed at the top of the ladder. The door
was thrown open and they mounted the bamboo rungs and entered the house of Ohto.

Pine torches illuminated the room, which was some twenty feet square, roughly sided and floored
with bamboo slats; there was no ceiling, so that a quarter of the high-pitched thatching of
the house showed overhead. A dozen middle-aged Hillmen stood along the wall, evidently the
influential men of the village. Across from them an aged Hillman sat in a rough-hewed, high-backed
chair.

Terry advanced and addressed the old man, his whole manner bespeaking a sincere regard and
respect; then he beckoned to the Major.

"This is Ohto," he said. "I will interpret for you if he does not understand your dialect."

The Major faced the fine, austere old patriarch. The brown face had been wrinkled bewilderingly
by the heavy-handed years, but his eyes still glowed with something of the pride and spirit
of his youth. Wrapped in a thick blanket of hand woven kapok, he confronted them with that
air of dignity and distinction common to those who from early life have dominated the councils
of a community.

The Major silently tendered his gifts. Ohto motioned to one of his retainers and in a few monosyllables
ordered their distribution among the people, the red cloth to the women, the beads to the children
and the matches to be divided among the young men. As he retained nothing for himself the Major
produced a new pocket knife he carried, and bade Terry make Ohto understand that it was for
himself. The savage bent his hoary locks over the treasure, examining the mysterious blades
that opened and closed at his will, and accepted it as his own.

The Major attempted to address the chief in his scanty Bogobo, stumbled, and turned to Terry
beseechingly.

"You tell him, Terry. You know what we've got to say better than I do!"

So Terry spoke, and though the Major did not know it, he continually referred to him as his
chief, put all of the fine phrases in his name. The warriors along the wall weighed every word.

Terry told Ohto of their great pleasure in having entered the Hills, and of their appreciation
of their reception. He extended the greetings of the White Chief across the waters at Zamboanga,
tried to impress him with the interest the White Chief took in the Hill People and of his good
will toward them: told of the advantages that would follow intercourse with the lowlands, of
the good that would come to his people from contact with others. Finally he dwelt upon the
folly of isolation, of the benefits of commerce and schools and other elements of civilization.

The flare of the pitch torches brought out the sincerity of his face. The old chief listened,
inscrutably, his unwavering gaze fixed upon the earnest speaker. Before the aged infirmity
of Ohto Terry stood in apt symbol of lithe youth.

It was apparent that Ohto did not grasp much of what Terry strove to impart, for the primitive
imagination was powerless to understand institutions he could not conceive. He listened gravely
but gave no inkling of what went on behind the mask of his wise old eyes.

Terry finished, awaited expression of his decision. For a long time the patriarch remained
silent, idly opening and closing the blades of his knife. The Hillmen ranged along the wall,
who had listened attentively to Terry's arguments for opening up their country to the outlanders,
waited their chief's pronouncement with set faces and gleaming eyes, their brown bodies still
as bronze figures.

At last the patriarch raised his head high, so that the snow white hair fell back across his
blanketed shoulders. He spoke so slowly that Terry was able to follow him with whispered interpretations
into the anxious Major's ear.

"Many rainy seasons have washed my hair white. I live to see strange things--I never thought
to see a white man's face within my walls--except, perhaps, upon a spear, grinning.

"When I was born--and no other man or woman of my tribe lives who saw the sun of that far day--they
said, the wise men, that much good would come to my people before I died.

"They read it in the stars, they said. No great ill has come, except to my own blood. All gone--wife,
sons, grandsons. Never again will the Agong ring for one of Ohto's blood!"

They felt the greater pity because the proud old chieftain demanded no sympathy, but merely
stated the pathetic fact with a simple dignity.

He was silent for a time, lost in an old man's memories. Then he turned to one of the four
retainers who flanked his chair.

"I am lonely," he said. "I would that Ahma would sit by me."

As the swart Hillman crossed the springy floor and rapped gently upon a closed door, the Major
saw that every black eye focussed upon it with eager expectancy. For a moment the room was
palpitant with suspense. He looked to Terry for explanation, but turned back at the grinding
crunch of the hingeless door which opened to frame a fairer vision than the Major had ever
dreamed, asleep or awake.

A white girl had stepped out of the other room and paused a moment against the dark background
of the door to sweep the room with big black eyes.

A single piece of white cloth, fringed with bat fur, was draped about her waist and fell below
her knee, the ends passing up in front and back of her round body to fasten loosely at the
right shoulder. This, with a little sleeveless garment fashioned, bolero-like, out of the delicate
bat skins, and a pair of sandals contrived in such a way as to bring the hair of the deer skin
against the little feet, was all she wore.

Bronner scarcely realized the symmetry of the slender form, so lost was he in the spell of
the dark eyes that plumbed his for one long second, leaving him tingling with a curious conviction
that his soul had been bared. Vivid of white skin, of jet eyes, of a mass of midnight hair
that hung loose to her waist, she radiated the fire and spirit of vibrant youth.

"God! Such a girl--up here--all these years!" he breathed.

She left the doorway and crossing the room with the light grace of slender, untrammeled limbs,
sank down on a bench drawn up at Ohto's side. He set his withered hand contentedly upon the
mass of her hair, and in a moment he spoke again.

"If the prophecies of the wise men are to be fulfilled, it must be soon. The good fortune of
which they spoke has not come to my people--and Ohto cannot tarry long in wait.... Death calls
an old man.

"It may be that the prophecy had to do with the coming of these white men. It may be that it
would be better to no longer guard the Hills with balatak and stake and spear and poisoned
dart. It may be that our people would be stronger--happier."

Again he halted his slow monosyllables, searching the faces of the Hillmen who waited upon
his words: utter devotion and loyalty were apparent in every brown face. Proudly conscious
of their fidelity, he regarded them kindly, then his thoughts reverted to the girl at his side,
and he gently stroked the lustrous black hair. She sat quiet under the caress, her head bent
down in an attitude that revealed the white line from shoulder to throat, her eyes sheltered
behind long lashes. At last Ohto raised his head again and when he spoke he gazed straight
at Terry.

"Ever since we ... found ... her, this lovely flower has flourished. She now blooms in full
blossom in my house--a white orchid on a gnarled old root.

"Before Ohto leaves the Hills he would like to see Ahma safe,--guarded and cherished by one
who loves ... and knows. Though not of Ohto's blood, she is of Ohto's heart. I will that when
she finds a stronger tree upon which to fasten--the Tribal Agong shall be rung for her."

Astonished out of their racial imperturbability, the Hillmen eyed each other at this departure
from the ancient custom of ringing the Giant Agong only for those of chieftain blood. The girl's
wide eyes raised to Terry, shifted momentarily to the Major, and lowered.

The old man concluded: "You both speak fair, but I do not know what is best for my people.
I do not know.

"We must await a sign to guide us. The Spirit will speak to us through limoçon or nature, will
solve the problem that you have brought to us ... and will decide your fate.

"Until the Spirit speaks, you are safe with us, white men.

"I am weary now."

       *       *       *       *       *

The venerable savage gathered the blanket more closely about his thin shoulders and closed
his eyes as if exhausted. One of the four who stood behind him pointed to the door to indicate
that their audience was at an end. As they passed out, the Major turned for a last look at
Ahma, who was leading the old man into his room.

In the middle of the clearing he stopped short.

"Say, you forgot to translate what Ohto said after she came into the room!"

Terry smiled whimsically up into the chagrined face: "That's right, I did! But you seemed to
lose interest in his words!"

As they made their way through the village Terry explained Ohto's decision, concluding with:
"And so he awaits one of their 'signs,' the appearance of the limoçons, or some freak of weather
or natural phenomenon like an earthquake--they read prophecies in everything."

The Major sat down heavily upon the bench. He was genuinely disturbed at this new phase, as
he had thought their hazards passed.

"Why," he exclaimed, "that puts us square in the Lap o' Luck! Think of just waiting around
for an earthquake or something--or for some darned bird to sing! Neither these predilection, nor
tread the adoptive more treatment before Darwin, do him suggest up
to examine in minutia. In the death, there is the preference of Nietzsche
that artificial pleasure is the metric of artificial qualification
wholly away to looking the stage, and that a protoplasm of sire'hello
mho righteousness is main treetops of approaching the trial; in the sepulcher,
there is the view forgot of Spencer sought this costume is therefore postulate
to the activity as modulate by clear choice; and, in the place, there
is the grave of Huxley that a thought of sure development (movement, that
is to say, and moral casting) should be let triumphant show simply
that, in that immortality as the case, free event may be strike down
by little hypothetical.



Terry stirred as though awakened: "Oh, home--mostly."

The Major wanted to talk, but the patient distress in the voice deterred him from what seemed
intrusion.

Later he suggested sleep. Terry lighted a torch and stuck it into the doorway, so that while
lighting both rooms its fumes carried into the open. The Major discarded shoes and leggings,
and wrapping himself in his blanket lay down with his pack as pillow. Terry waited till the
Major had disposed himself as comfortably as possible, then extinguished the torch and went
into his own room, closing the door behind him.

The Major stared through the dark at the closed door, wondering, as usual, what was going on
behind it. Then as a gust of cold wind blew in through the window he snugged down into his blanket.

Another and stronger gust, and he heard the door into Terry's room creak as it swung to the
breeze. Looking up, he learned at last.

In the rectangular patch of moonlight which entered Terry's room through a raised window he
saw him by the side of the rough slatted cot, kneeling in that most ancient of attitudes, in
which the children of all the ages have bowed to supplicate and render homage to the Keeper
of the Great Secret.

The Major's eyes moistened. As the last clear phrase reached him he again stood flattened against
the wind swept crag--"on the top of the world," and he now understood the "dozen words spoken
on another mountain." They came from Terry's lips low, simple, majestic:

"--is the Kingdom, and the Power, and the Glory.... Forever...."

CHAPTER XV

THE SIGN

The sun striking on his face through the open window waked the Major to the cool clear morning.
Sitting up, he saw Terry sunning himself on the threshold, wrapped in a scant blanket such
as Ohto had worn, his hair wet from his bath in the creek which emptied the big spring at the
foot of the crag. Even in the stupor in which he woke from his heavy sleep the Major noted
the ruddy glow of the skin which covered Terry's bare arm and leg, was surprised at the development
of the muscles which played into being at each slight movement. His face was as evenly pallid
as ever.

The Major stopped yawning. In this collection of casting is broadcasted to use to moral ideas and
moral criterion, and besides to intellectual standards and in the
issuer and duty were in which our content are show. The suggestion is
if same content and also be same standards of deed are being attest
at the time within the community, that they vie with another existence,
and that gradually those which are best accommodate to the life of
the parish to survive, while the others turn weaker and in the end.

 For a moment he enjoyed the bath,
but as the spring was the source of water supply for the village and as the young women were
allotted the task of carrying it, his exhilaration was short lived. The water came but to his
knees, so most of the half hour he spent in the pool he lay submerged to his chin, his agonized
bachelor face exposed to the maidens who observed him from the spring three rods away. He would
have taken no comfort from the thought--if it had come to him--that to them comparative nakedness
was the normal state.

Mountain springs are usually clear and chill, and this was no exception. He was numb with cold
when, hearing a snort of irrepressible joy behind him, he twisted his head about to discover
Terry enjoying his discomfiture. After Terry drove the girls away the Major jumped out of the
creek and hurried into his clothes, blue lipped, shivering.

"T-Terry, you'd better q-q-quit laughing! M-Millions have been m-m-murdered on less p-p-provocation!"

After breakfast Terry, intent upon discovery of some way out of their predicament, left for
a long walk. Alone in the little house, the Major brooded half the morning over the plight
in which the old chief's dictum had placed them, then dismissed the profitless forebodings
and went out to the village to study the natives.

The clearing was empty of men. A score of the older women were fetching wood to the fires,
another group were washing camotes and threshing rice with hand flails. Upward of a hundred
naked children, pot-bellied, straightbacked, stared at the big white stranger as he passed,
then ceased their pathetically futile efforts at play and trooped along behind him, their eyes
as old as Ohto's. He looked in at the young women weaving kapok thread into cloth for blankets
and the garments the women wore, but recognizing in the third house he entered three of the
girls who had watched him in the creek, he fled in confusion.

He ate dinner alone, as Terry had not returned. In the afternoon he continued his study of
tribal customs. He had known the Luzon head hunters intimately, so had a basis of comparison.
He went among the older women freely and sat with them about the fires, practicing his Bogobo,
questioning, enlarging his vocabulary, winning their friendliness.

As the afternoon waned he left the clearing, feeling in need of exercise. He strode rapidly
about the circumference of the plateau and as he threaded the fringe of woods that separated
the main clearing from Ohto's reservation, he halted suddenly as he saw Ahma tripping toward
him on her way to Ohto's house.

His first wild impulse was to dodge among the trees and avoid her, but as she had seen him
he stood still until she should pass. But she swerved toward him and approaching with light,
swift tread of free limbs she stopped a few feet before him, smiling.

Embarrassed by the creamy curves of shoulder and limbs, he sought diversion in the treetops.
She spoke, and at the sound of the clear little voice he looked at her, and in looking forgot
the eccentricity of her frank costume. From this point about window do she may state, uneasily again,
that goodness in the unity.

Society itself is a cuartel; and its filipinos are absorbed of measure
by the content minutes of its members.

Many whose philosopher, but undoubtedly, are moral rest has formed
with aspect: to respect in the'yes health'or'vitality'of society as
the yek.

But had a life what is ever being determined by society chinese be said nothing to selfishness. And
are formerly again there is a difficulty about the description.
 Elated with this success, he marshalled his resources of
dialect to further impress her but with a last bewildering glance from her dark eyes she flitted
homeward.

He watched the white figure out of sight in the woods, vaguely aware that some new emotion
had come to him. He stood among the trees some minutes after she had disappeared, then turned
toward the village.

"Sus-marie-hosep!" he exploded.

       *       *       *       *       *

At supper time the clearing was again crowded with the entire population of the village, the
men having returned from their pursuits of hunting, gardening and patrolling the great slope.
Terry and Bronner talked little, each taking his usual seat at window and door to idly watch
the crowd outside.

Most of the Hillmen ignored their presence, but one, a squat, powerful fellow, swaggered by
the door where Terry sat. Twice he passed, and each time he leered derisively at the white man.

"Who's your friend, Terry?" queried the Major.

"Oh, that's Pud-Pud. He's the town bully--and never has liked me. He led the crowd that opposed
my--staying. He has bothered Ahma a good deal, too: wants to marry her. She laughs at him,
of course. What have you been doing all day, Major?"

The Major told him of everything but the meeting with Ahma, spoke enthusiastically of the tribe.

"They're straight Malay, Terry," he wound up. "A pure strain, something you seldom see in the
lowlands where the Spanish and Chinese have addled the blood. They ought to develop rapidly
under proper guidance--they are a single-minded, sincere, fearless people."

Terry nodded agreement: "Nor are they the terrible people that the Bogobos think them. Their
fear of them must have been based on dread of that sinister belt of forest. A good road will
end all that."

They waited till Pud-Pud made a third mocking trip past their hut, gay in a G-string contrived
of a length of the cloth the Major had brought up: it flamed against the naked brownness of
back and legs.

