He now went back to a point on the line of stones about midway between the side of the cave
and the mound, and then, walking forward as nearly as possible in a straight line, which would
be at right angles with the metal rod, he proceeded until he had reached the entrance to the
passageway which led to the outer caves, carefully counting his steps as he went. Then he turned
squarely about, entered the passage, and walked along it until he came to the door of the room
which had once been occupied by Captain Horn.

"I'll try it inside first," said Burke to himself, "and then I'll go outside."

He walked through the rooms, turning to the right about ten feet when he came to the middle
apartment,--for the door here was not opposite to the others,--but coming back again to his
line of march as soon as he was on the other side. He proceeded until he reached the large
cave, open at the top, which was the last of these compartments. This was an extensive cavern,
the back part being, however, so much impeded by rocks that had fallen from the roof that it
was difficult for him to make any progress, and the numbering of his steps depended very much
upon calculation. But when he reached the farthest wall, Burke believed that he had gone about
as great a distance as he had stepped off in the cave of the lake.

"But how in the mischief," thought he, "am I to find anything here?" He held up his lantern
and looked about. "I can't move these rocks to see what is under them."

As he gazed around, he noticed that the southeast corner seemed to be more regular than the
rest of the wall of the cave. In fact, it was almost a right-angled corner, and seemed to have
been roughly cut into that shape. Instantly Burke was in the corner. He found the eastern wall
quite smooth for a space about a foot wide and extending about two yards from the floor. In
this he perceived lines of crevice marking out a rectangular space some six inches wide and
four feet in height.

"Ha, ha!" cried Burke. "The handle is on the other side of that slab, I'll bet my head!" And
putting down the lantern, he went to work.

With his hammer and chisel he had forced the top of the slab in less than two minutes, and
soon he pulled it outward and let it drop on the floor. Inside the narrow, perpendicular cavity
which was now before him, he saw an upright metal bar.

"The handle of the bolt!" cried Burke. "Now I can unfasten the trap-door." And taking hold
of the top of the bar, he pulled back with all his force. At first he could not move it, but
suddenly the resistance ceased, and he pulled the bar forward until it stood at an angle of
forty-five degrees from the wall. Further than this Burke could not move it, although he tugged
and bore down on it with all his weight.

"All right," said he, at last. "I guess that's as far as she'll come. Anyway, I'm off to see
if I've drawn that bolt. If I have, I'll have that trap-door open, if I have to break my back
lifting it."

With his best speed Burke ran through the caves to the mound, and, mounting by means of the
stone projections, he was about to descend by the ladder, when, to his utter amazement, he
saw no ladder. He had left it projecting at least two feet through the opening in the top of
the mound, and now he could see nothing of it.

What could this mean? Going up a little higher, he held up his lantern and looked within, but
saw no signs of the ladder.

"By George!" he cried, "has anybody followed me and pulled out that ladder?"

Lowering the lantern farther into the mound, he peered in. Below, and immediately under him,
was a black hole, about three feet square. Burke was so startled that he almost dropped the
lantern. But he was a man of tough nerve, and maintained his clutch upon it. But he drew back.
It required some seconds to catch his breath. Presently he looked down again.

"I see," said he. "That trap-door was made to fall down, and not to lift up, and when I pulled
the bolt, down it went, and the ladder, being on top of it, slipped into that hole. Heavens!"
he said, as a cold sweat burst out over him at the thought, "suppose I had made up my mind
to cut that bolt! Where would I have gone to?"

It was not easy to frighten Burke, but now he trembled, and his back was chilled. But he soon
recovered sufficiently to do something, and going down to the floor of the cave, he picked
up a piece of loose stone, and returning to the top of the mound, he looked carefully over
the edge of the opening, and let the stone drop into the black hole beneath. With all the powers
of his brain he listened, and it seemed to him like half a minute before he heard a faint sound,
far, far below. At this moment he was worse frightened than he had ever been in his life. He
clambered down to the foot of the mound, and sat down on the floor.

"What in the name of all the devils does it mean?" said he; and he set himself to work to think
about it, and found this a great deal harder labor than cutting stone.

"There was only one thing," he said to himself, at last, "that they could have had that for.
The captain says that those ancient fellows put their gold there keep it from the Spaniards,
and they must have rigged up this devilish contrivance to work if they found the Spaniards
had got on the track of their treasure. Even if the Spaniards had let off the water and gone
to work to get the gold out, one of the Incas' men in the corner of that other cave, which
most likely was all shut up and not discoverable, would have got hold of that bar, given it
a good pull, and let down all the gold, and what Spaniards might happen to be inside, to the
very bottom of that black hole. By George! it would have been a pretty trick! The bottom of
that mound is just like a funnel, and every stick of gold would have gone down. But, what is
more likely, they would have let it out before the Spaniards had a chance to open the top,
and then, if the ancients had happened to lick the Spaniards, they could have got all that
gold up again. It might have taken ten or twenty years, but then, the ancients had all the
time they wanted."

After these reflections, Burke sat for a few moments, staring at the lantern. "But, by George!"
said he again, speaking aloud, though in low tones, "it makes my blood run cold to think of
the captain working day after day, as hard as he could, right over that horrible trap-door.
Suppose he had moved the bolt in some way! Suppose somebody outside had found that slab in
the wall and had fooled with the bar! Then, there is another thing. Suppose, while they were
living here, he or the boy had found that bar before he found the dome, and had pulled out
the concern to see what it was! Bless me! in that case we should all be as poor as rats! Bat
I must not stop here, or the next watch will be called before I get back. But one thing I'll
do before I go. I'll put back that lid. Somebody might find the dome in the dark, and tumble
into it. Why, if a wandering rat should make a slip, and go down into that black hole, it would
be enough to make a fellow's blood run cold if he knew of it."

Without much trouble Burke replaced the lid, and then, without further delay, he left the caves.
As he hurried along the beach, he debated within himself whether or not he should tell Captain
Horn what he had discovered.

"It will be mighty hard on his nerves," said he, "if he comes to know how he squatted and worked
for days and weeks over that diabolical trap that opens downward. He's a strong man, but he's
got enough on his nerves as it is. No, I won't tell him. He is going to do the handsome thing
by us, and it would be mean for me to do the unhandsome thing by him. By George! I don't believe
he could sleep for two or three nights if he knew what I know! No, sir! You just keep your
mouth shut until we are safe and sound in some civilized spot, with the whole business settled,
and Shirley and me discharged. Then I will tell the captain about it, so that nobody need ever
trouble his mind about coming back to look for gold rings and royal mummies. If I don't get
back before my watch is called, I'll brazen it out somehow. We've got to twist discipline a
little when we are all hard at work at a job like this."

He left his shoes on the sand of the cove, and swam to the ship without taking time to undress.
He slipped over the taffrail, and had scarcely time to get below and change his clothes before
his watch was called.

CHAPTER XXXV

THE CAPTAIN WRITES A LETTER

On the afternoon of the next day, the Miranda, having taken in water, set sail, and began her
long voyage to Rio Janeiro, and thence to France.

Now that his labors were over, and the treasure of the Incas safely stored in the hold of the
brig, where it was ignominiously acting as ballast, Captain Horn seated himself comfortably
in the shade of a sail and lighted his pipe. He was tired of working, tired of thinking, tired
of planning--tired in mind, body, and even soul; and the thought that his work was done, and
that he was actually sailing away with his great prize, came to him like a breeze from the
sea after a burning day. He was not as happy as he should have been. He knew that he was too
tired to be as happy as his circumstances demanded, but after a while he would attend better
to that business. Now he was content to smoke his pipe, and wait, and listen to the distant
music from all the different kinds of enjoyment which, in thought, were marching toward him.
It was true he was only beginning his long voyage to the land where he hoped to turn his gold
into available property. It was true that he might be murdered that night, or some other night,
and that when the brig, with its golden cargo, reached port, he might not be in command of
her. It was true that a hundred things might happen to prevent the advancing enjoyments from
ever reaching him. But ill-omened chances threaten everything that man is doing, or ever can
do, and he would not let the thought of them disturb him now.

Everybody on board the Miranda was glad to rest and be happy, according to his methods and
his powers of anticipation. As to any present advantage from their success, there was none.
The stones and sand they had thrown out had ballasted the brig quite as well as did the gold
they now carried. This trite reflection forced itself upon the mind of Burke.

"Captain," said he, "don't you think it would be a good idea to touch somewhere and lay in
a store of fancy groceries and saloon-cabin grog? If we can afford to be as jolly as we please,
I don't see why we shouldn't begin now."

But the captain shook his head. "It would be a dangerous thing," he said, "to put into any
port on the west coast of South America with our present cargo on board. We can't make it look
like ballast, as I expected we could, for all that bagging gives it a big bulk, and if the
custom-house officers came on board, it would not do any good to tell them we are sailing in
ballast, if they happened to want to look below."

"Well, that may be so," said Burke. "But what I'd like would be to meet a first-class, double-quick
steamer, and buy her, put our treasure on board, and then clap on all steam for France."

"All right," said the captain, "but we'll talk about that when we meet a steamer for sale."

After a week had passed, and he had begun to feel the advantages of rest and relief from anxiety,
Captain Horn regretted nothing so much as that the Miranda was not a steamer, ploughing her
swift way over the seas. It must be a long, long time before he could reach those whom he supposed
and hoped were waiting for him in France. It had already been a long, long time since they
had heard from him. He did not fear that they would suffer because he did not come. He had
left them money enough to prevent anything of that sort. He did not know whether or not they
were longing to hear from him, but he did know that he wanted them to hear from him. He must
yet sail about three thousand miles in the Pacific Ocean, and then about two thousand more
in the Atlantic, before he reached Rio Janeiro, the port for which he had cleared. From there
it would be nearly five thousand miles to France, and he did not dare to calculate how long
it would take the brig to reach her final destination.

This course of thought determined him to send a letter, which would reach Paris long before
he could arrive there. If they should know that he was on his way home, all might be well,
or, at least, better than if they knew nothing about him. It might be a hazardous thing to
touch at a port on this coast, but he believed that, if he managed matters properly, he might
get a letter ashore without making it necessary for any meddlesome custom-house officers to
come aboard and ask questions. Accordingly, he decided to stop at Valparaiso. He thought it
likely that if he did not meet a vessel going into port which would lay to and take his letter,
he might find some merchantman, anchored in the roadstead, to which he could send a boat, and
on which he was sure to find some one who would willingly post his letter.

He wrote a long letter to Edna--a straightforward, business-like missive, as his letters had
always been, in which, in language which she could understand, but would carry no intelligible
idea to any unauthorized person who might open the letter, he gave her an account of what he
had done, and which was calculated to relieve all apprehensions, should it be yet a long time
before he reached her. He promised to write again whenever there was an opportunity of sending
her a letter, and wrote in such a friendly and encouraging manner that he felt sure there would
be no reason for any disappointment or anxiety regarding him and the treasure.

Burke and Shirley were a little surprised when they found that the captain had determined to
stop at Valparaiso, a plan so decidedly opposed to what he had before said on the subject.
But when they found it was for the purpose of sending a letter to his wife, and that he intended,
if possible, barely to touch and go, they said nothing more, nor did Burke make any further
allusions to improvement in their store of provisions.

When, at last, the captain found himself off Valparaiso, it was on a dark, cloudy evening and
nothing could be done until the next morning, and they dropped anchor to wait until dawn.

As soon as it was light, the captain saw that a British steamer was anchored about a mile from
the Miranda, and he immediately sent a boat, with Shirley and two of the negroes, to ask the
officer on duty to post his letter when he sent on shore. In a little more than an hour Shirley
returned, with the report that the first mate of the steamer knew Captain Horn and would gladly
take charge of his letter.

The boat was quickly hauled to the davits, and all hands were called to weigh anchor and set
sail. But all hands did not respond to the call. One of the negroes, a big, good-natured fellow,
who, on account of his unpronounceable African name, had been dubbed "Inkspot," was not to
be found. This was a very depressing thing, under the circumstances, and it, almost counterbalanced
the pleasure the captain felt in having started a letter on its way to his party in France.

It seemed strange that Inkspot should have deserted the vessel, for it was a long way to the
shore, and, besides, what possible reason could he have for leaving his fellow-Africans and
taking up his lot among absolute strangers? The crew had all worked together so earnestly and
faithfully that the captain had come to believe in them and trust them to an extent to which
he had never before trusted seamen.

The officers held a consultation as to what was to be done, and they very quickly arrived at
a decision. To remain at anchor, to send a boat on shore to look for the missing negro, would
be dangerous and useless. Inquiries about the deserter would provoke inquiries about the brig,
and if Inkspot really wished to run away from the vessel, it would take a long time to find
him and bring him back. The right course was quite plain to every one. Having finished the
business which brought them there, they must up anchor and sail away as soon as possible. As
for the loss of the man, they must bear that as well as they could. Whether he had been drowned,
eaten by a shark, or had safely reached the shore, he was certainly lost to them.

At the best, their crew had been small enough, but six men had sailed a brig, and six men could
do it again.

So the anchor was weighed, the sails were set, and before a northeast wind the Miranda went
out to sea as gayly as the nature of her build permitted, which is not saying much. It was
a good wind, however, and when the log had been thrown, the captain remarked that the brig
was making better time than she had made since they left Acapulco.

CHAPTER XXXVI

A HORSE-DEALER APPEARS ON THE SCENE

When the brig Miranda was lying at anchor in the Rackbirds' cove, and Mr. George Burke had
silently left her in order to go on shore and pursue some investigations in which he was interested,
his departure from the brig had not been, as he supposed, unnoticed. The big, good-natured
African, known as Inkspot, had been on watch, and, being himself so very black that he was
not generally noticeable in the dark, was standing on a part of the deck from which, without
being noticed himself, he saw a person get over the taffrail and slip into the water. He knew
this person to be the second mate, and having a high respect and some fear of his superiors,
he did not consider it his business to interfere with him. He saw a head above the water, moving
toward the shore, but it soon disappeared in the darkness. Toward the end of his watch, he
had seen Mr. Burke climb up the vessel's side as silently as he had gone down it, and disappear
below.

When Inkspot went to his hammock, which he did very shortly afterwards, he reflected to the
best of his ability upon what he had seen. Why did Mr. Burke slip away from the ship so silently,
and come back in the same way? He must have gone ashore, and why did he want no one to know
that he had gone? He must have gone to do something he ought not to do, and Inkspot could think
of nothing wrong that Mr. Burke would like to do, except to drink whiskey. Captain Horn was
very particular about using spirits on board, and perhaps Mr. Burke liked whiskey, and could
not get it. Inkspot knew about the storehouse of the Rackbirds, but he did not know what it
had contained, or what had been left there. Maka had said something about the whiskey having
been poured out on the sand, but that might have been said just to keep people away from the
place. If there were no whiskey there, why did Mr. Burke go on shore?

Now, it so happened that Inkspot knew a good deal about whiskey. Before he had gone into the
service of the Rackbirds, he had, at different times, been drunk, and he had the liveliest
and most pleasant recollections of these experiences. It had been a long time since he had
had enough whiskey to make him feel happy. This had probably been the case with Mr. Burke,
and he had gone on shore, and most likely had had some very happy hours, and had come back
without any one knowing where he had gone. The consequence of this train of thought was that
Inkspot determined that he would go on shore, the next night, and hunt for whiskey. He could
do it quite as well as Mr. Burke had done it, perhaps even better. But the Miranda did not
remain in the cove the next night, and poor Inkspot looked with longing eyes upon the slowly
departing spot on the sands where he knew the Rackbirds' storehouse was located.

The days and nights went on, and in the course of time the Miranda anchored in the harbor of
Valparaiso; and, when this happened, Inkspot determined that now would be his chance to go
on shore and get a good drink of whiskey--he had money enough for that. He could see the lights
of El Puerto, or the Old Town, glittering and beckoning, and they did not appear to be very
far off. It would be nothing for him to swim as far as that.

Inkspot went off his watch at midnight, and he went into the water at fifty minutes to one.
He wore nothing but a dark-gray shirt and a pair of thin trousers, and if any one had seen
his head and shoulders, it is not likely, unless a good light had been turned on them, that
they would have been supposed to be portions of a human form.

Inkspot was very much at home in the water, and he could swim like a dog or a deer. But it
was a long, long swim to those glittering and beckoning lights. At last, however, he reached
a pier, and having rested himself on the timbers under it, he cautiously climbed to the top.
The pier was deserted, and he walked to the end of it, and entered the town. He knew nothing
of Valparaiso, except that it was a large city where sailors went, and he was quite sure he
could find a shop where they sold whiskey. Then he would have a glass--perhaps two--perhaps
three--after which he would return to the brig, as Mr. Burke had done. Of course, he would
have to do much more swimming than had been necessary for the second mate, but then, he believed
himself to be a better swimmer than that gentleman, and he expected to get back a great deal
easier than he came, because the whiskey would make him strong and happy, and he could play
with the waves.

Inkspot did find a shop, and a dirty one it was--but they sold whiskey inside, and that was
enough for him. With the exception of Maka, he was the most intelligent negro among the captain's
crew, and he had picked up some words of English and some of Spanish. But it was difficult
for him to express an idea with these words. Among these words, however, was one which he pronounced
better than any of the others, and which had always been understood whenever he used it,--whether
in English or Spanish, no matter what the nationality might be of the person addressed,--and
that word was "whiskey."

Inkspot had one glass, and then another, a third, and a fourth, and then his money gave out--at
least, the man who kept the shop insisted, in words that any one could understand, that the
silver the big negro had fished out of his dripping pockets would pay for no more drinks. But
Inkspot had had enough to make him happy. His heart was warm, and his clothes were getting
drier. He went out into the glorious night. It was dark and windy, and the sky was cloudy,
but to him all things were glorious. He sat down on the pavement in the cosey corner of two
walls, and there he slept luxuriously until a policeman came along and arrested him for being
drunk in the street.

It was two days before Inkspot got out of the hands of the police. Then he was discharged because
the authorities did not desire to further trouble themselves with a stupid fellow who could
give no account of himself, and had probably wandered from a vessel in port. The first thing
he did was to go out to the water's edge and look out over the harbor, but although he saw
many ships, his sharp eyes told him that not one of them was the brig he had left.

After an hour or two of wandering up and down the waterside, he became sure that there was
no vessel in that harbor waiting for him to swim to her. Then he became equally certain that
he was very hungry. It was not long, however, before a good, strong negro like Inkspot found
employment. It was not necessary for him to speak very much Spanish, or any other language,
to get a job at carrying things up a gang-plank, and, in pay for this labor, he willingly took
whatever was given him.

That night, with very little money in his pocket, Inkspot entered a tavern, a low place, but
not so low as the one he had patronized on his arrival in Valparaiso. He had had a meagre supper,
and now possessed but money enough to pay for one glass of whiskey, and having procured this,
he seated himself on a stool in a corner, determined to protract his enjoyment as long as possible.
Where he would sleep that night he knew not, but it was not yet bedtime, and he did not concern
himself with the question.

Near by, at a table, were seated four men, drinking, smoking, and talking. Two of these were
sailors. Another, a tall, dark man with a large nose, thin at the bridge and somewhat crooked
below, was dressed in very decent shore clothes, but had a maritime air about him, notwithstanding.
The fourth man, as would have been evident to any one who understood Spanish, was a horse-dealer,
and the conversation, when Inkspot entered the place, was entirely about horses. But Inkspot
did not know this, as he understood so few of the words that he heard, and he would not have
been interested if he had understood them. The horse-dealer was the principal spokesman, but
he would have been a poor representative of the shrewdness of his class, had he been trying
to sell horses to sailors. He was endeavoring to do nothing of the kind. These men were his
friends, and he was speaking to them, not of the good qualities of his animals, but of the
credulous natures of his customers. To illustrate this, he drew from his pocket a small object
which he had received a few days before for some horses which might possibly be worth their
keep, although he would not be willing to guarantee this to any one at the table. The little
object which he placed on the table was a piece of gold about two inches long, and shaped like
an irregular prism.

This, he said, he had received in trade from a man in Santiago, who had recently come down
from Lima. The man had bought it from a jeweller, who had others, and who said he understood
they had come from California. The jeweller had owed the man money, and the latter had taken
this, not as a curiosity, for it was not much of a curiosity, as they could all see, but because
the jeweller told him exactly how much it was worth, and because it was safer than money to
carry, and could be changed into current coin in any part of the world. The point of the horse-dealer's
remarks was, however, the fact that not only had he sold his horses to the man from Lima for
very much more than they were worth, but he had made him believe that this lump of gold was
not worth as much as he had been led to suppose, that the jeweller bad cheated him, and that
Californian gold was not easily disposed of in Chili or Peru, for it was of a very inferior
quality to the gold of South America. So he had made his trade, and also a profit, not only
on the animals he delivered, but on the pay he received. He had had the little lump weighed
and tested, and knew exactly how much it was worth.

When the horse-dealer had finished this pleasant tale, he laughed loudly, and the three other
men laughed also because they had keen wits and appreciated a good story of real life. But
their laughter was changed to astonishment--almost fright--when a big black negro bounded out
of a dark corner and stood by the table, one outstretched ebony finger pointing to the piece
of gold. Instantly the horse dealer snatched his treasure and thrust it into his pocket, and
almost at the same moment each man sprung to his feet and put his hand on his favorite weapon.
But the negro made no attempt to snatch the gold, nor did there seem to be any reason to apprehend
an attack from him. He stood slapping his thighs with his hands, his mouth in a wide grin,
and his eyes sparkling in apparent delight.

"What is the matter with you?" shouted the horse-dealer. "What do you want?"

Inkspot did not understand what had been said to him, nor could he have told what he wanted,
for he did not know. At that moment he knew nothing, he comprehended nothing, but he felt as
a stranger in a foreign land would feel should he hear some words in his native tongue. The
sight of that piece of gold had given to Inkspot, by one quick flash, a view of his negro friends
and companions, of Captain Horn and his two white men, of the brig he had left, of the hammock
in which he had slept--of all, in fact, that he now cared for on earth.

He had seen pieces of gold like that. Before all the treasure had been carried from the caves
to the Miranda, the supply of coffee-bags had given out, and during the last days of the loading
it had been necessary to tie up the gold in pieces of sail-cloth, after the fashion of a wayfarer's
bundle. Before these had been put on board, their fastening had been carefully examined, and
some of them had been opened and retied. Thus all the negroes had seen the little bars, for,
as they knew the bags contained gold, there was no need of concealing from them the shape and
size of the contents.

So, when, sitting in his gloomy corner, his spirits slowly rising under the influence of his
refreshment, which he had just finished, he saw before him an object which recalled to him
the life and friends of which he had bereft himself, Inkspot's nature took entire possession
of him, and he bounded to the table in ecstatic recognition of the bit of metal.

The men now swore at Inkspot, but as they saw he was unarmed, and not inclined to violence,
they were not afraid of him, but they wondered at him. The horse-dealer took the piece of gold
out of his pocket and held it in his hand.

"Did you ever see anything like that before?" he asked. He was a shrewd man, the horse-dealer,
and really wanted to know what was the matter with the negro.

Inkspot did not answer, but jabbered in African.

"Try him in English," suggested the thin-nosed man, and this the horse-dealer did.

Many of the English words Inkspot understood. He had seen things like that. Yes, yes! Great
heaps! Heaps! Bags! Bags! He carried them! Throwing an imaginary package over his shoulder,
he staggered under it across the floor. Heaps! Piles! Bags! Days and days and days he carried
many bags! Then, in a state of exalted mental action, produced by his recollections and his
whiskey, he suddenly conceived a scorn for a man who prized so highly just one of these lumps,
and who was nearly frightened out of his wits if a person merely pointed to it. He shrugged
his shoulders, he spread out the palms of his hands toward the piece of gold, he turned away
his head and walked off sniffing. Then he came back and pointed to it, and, saying "One!" he
laughed, and then he said "One!" and laughed again. Suddenly he became possessed with a new
idea. His contemptuous manner dropped from him, and in eager excitement he leaned forward and
exclaimed:

"Cap' 'Or?"

The four men looked at each other and at him in wonder, and asked what, in the name of his
satanic majesty, the fellow was driving at. This apparent question, now repeated over and over
again in turn to each of them, they did not understand at all. But they could comprehend that
the negro had carried bags of lumps like that. This was very interesting.

CHAPTER XXXVII

THE "ARATO"

The subject of the labors of an African Hercules, mythical as these labors might be, was so
interesting to the four men who had been drinking and smoking in the tavern, that they determined
to pursue it as far as their ignorance of the African's language, and his ignorance of English
and Spanish, would permit. In the first place, they made him sit down with them, and offered
him something to drink. It was not whiskey, but Inkspot liked it very much, and felt all sorts
of good effects from it. In fact, it gave him a power of expressing himself by gestures and
single words in a manner wonderful. After a time, the men gave him something to eat, for they
imagined he might be hungry, and this also helped him very much, and his heart went out to
these new friends. Then he had a little more to drink, but only a little, for the horse-dealer
and the thin-nosed man, who superintended the entertainment, were very sagacious, and did not
want him to drink too much.

In the course of an hour, these four men, listening and watching keenly and earnestly, had
become convinced that this black man had been on a ship which carried bags of gold similar
to the rude prism possessed by the horse-dealer, that he had left that vessel for the purpose
of obtaining refreshments on shore and had not been able to get back to it, thereby indicating
that the vessel had not stopped long at the place where he had left it, and which place must
have been, of course, Valparaiso. Moreover, they found out to their full satisfaction where
that vessel was going to; for Maka had talked a great deal about Paris, which he pronounced
in English fashion, where Cheditafa and Mok were, and the negroes had looked forward to this
unknown spot as a heavenly port, and Inkspot could pronounce the word "Paris" almost as plainly
as if it were a drink to which he was accustomed.

But where the vessel was loaded with the gold, they could not find out. No grimace that Inkspot
could make, nor word that he could say, gave them an idea worth dwelling upon. He said some
words which made them believe that the vessel had cleared from Acapulco, but it was foolish
to suppose that any vessel had been loaded there with bags of gold carried on men's shoulders.
The ship most probably came from California, and had touched at the Mexican port. And she was
now bound for Paris. That was natural enough. Paris was a very good place to which to take
gold. Moreover, she had probably touched at some South American port, Callao perhaps, and this
was the way the little pieces of gold had been brought into the country, the Californians probably
having changed them for stores.

The words "Cap' 'Or," often repeated by the negro, and always in a questioning tone, puzzled
them very much. They gave up its solution, and went to work to try to make out the name of
the vessel upon which the bags had been loaded. But here Inkspot could not help them. They
could not make him understand what it was they wanted him to say. At last, the horse-dealer
proposed to the others, who, he said, knew more about such things than he did, that they should
repeat the name of every sailing-vessel on that coast of which they had ever heard--for Inkspot
had made them understand that his ship had sails, and no steam. This they did, and presently
one of the sailors mentioned the name Miranda, which belonged to a brig he knew of which plied
on the coast. At this, Inkspot sprang to his feet and clapped his hands.

"Miran'a! Miran'a.'" he cried. And then followed the words, "Cap' 'Or! Cap' 'Or!" in eagerly
excited tones.

Suddenly the thin-nosed man, whom the others called Cardatas, leaned forward.

"Cap'n Horn?" said he.

Inkspot clapped his hands again, and exclaimed:

"Ay, ay! Cap' 'Or! Cap' 'Or!"

He shouted the words so loudly that the barkeeper, at the other end of the room, called out
gruffly that they'd better keep quiet, or they would have somebody coming in.

