By Max Brand

The Untamed Trailin' The Night Horseman

THE NIGHT HORSEMAN

BY

MAX BRAND

1920

CONTENTS

I.--THE SCHOLAR

II.--WORDS AND BULLETS

III.--THE DOCTOR RIDES

IV.--THE CHAIN

V.--THE WAITING

VI.--THE MISSION STARTS

VII.--JERRY STRANN

VIII.--THE GIFT-HORSE

IX.--BATTLE LIGHT

X.--"SWEET ADELINE"

XI.--THE BUZZARD

XII.--FINESSE

XIII.--THE THREE

XIV.--MUSIC FOR OLD NICK

XV.--OLD GARY PETERS

XVI.--THE COMING OF NIGHT

XVII.--BUCK MAKES HIS GET-AWAY

XVIII.--DOCTOR BYRNE ANALYSES

XIX.--SUSPENSE

XX.--THE COMING

XXI.--MAC STRANN DECIDES TO KEEP THE LAW

XXII.--PATIENCE

XXIII.--HOW MAC STRANN KEPT THE LAW

XXIV.--DOCTOR BYRNE LOOKS INTO THE PAST

XXV.--WEREWOLF

XXVI.--THE BATTLE

XXVII.--THE CONQUEST

XXVIII.--THE TRAIL

XXIX.--TALK

XXX.--THE VOICE OF BLACK BART

XXXI.--THE MESSAGE

XXXII.--VICTORY

XXXIII.--DOCTOR BYRNE SHOWS THE TRUTH

XXXIV.--THE ACID TEST

XXXV.--PALE ANNIE

XXXVI.--THE DISCOVERY OF LIFE

XXXVII.--THE PIEBALD

XXXVIII.--THE CHALLENGE

XXXIX.--THE STORM

XL.--THE ARROYO

XLI.--THE FALLING OF NIGHT

XLII.--THE JOURNEY INTO NIGHT

THE NIGHT HORSEMAN

CHAPTER I

THE SCHOLAR

At the age of six Randall Byrne could name and bound every state in the Union and give the
date of its admission; at nine he was conversant with Homeric Greek and Caesar; at twelve he
read Aristophanes with perfect understanding of the allusions of the day and divided his leisure
between Ovid and Horace; at fifteen, wearied by the simplicity of Old English and Thirteenth
Century Italian, he dipped into the history of Philosophy and passed from that, naturally,
into calculus and the higher mathematics; at eighteen he took an A.B. from Harvard and while
idling away a pleasant summer with Hebrew and Sanscrit he delved lightly into biology and its
kindred sciences, having reached the conclusion that Truth is greater than Goodness or Beauty,
because it comprises both, and the whole is greater than any of its parts; at twenty-one he
pocketed his Ph.D. and was touched with the fever of his first practical enthusiasm--surgery.
At twenty-four he was an M.D. and a distinguished diagnostician, though he preferred work in
his laboratory in his endeavor to resolve the elements into simpler forms; also he published
at this time a work on anthropology whose circulation was limited to two hundred copies, and
he received in return two hundred letters of congratulation from great men who had tried to
read his book; at twenty-seven he collapsed one fine spring day on the floor of his laboratory.
That afternoon he was carried into the presence of a great physician who was also a very vulgar
man. The great physician felt his pulse and looked into his dim eyes.

"You have a hundred and twenty horsepower brain and a runabout body," said the great physician.

"I have come," answered Randall Byrne faintly, "for the solution of a problem, not for the
statement thereof."

"I'm not through," said the great physician. "Among other things you are a damned fool."

Randall Byrne here rubbed his eyes.

"What steps do you suggest that I consider?" he queried.

The great physician spat noisily.

"Marry a farmer's daughter," he said brutally.

"But," said Randall Byrne vaguely.

"I am a busy man and you've wasted ten minutes of my time," said the great physician, turning
back to his plate glass window. "My secretary will send you a bill for one thousand dollars.
Good-day."

And therefore, ten days later, Randall Byrne sat in his room in the hotel at Elkhead.

He had just written (to his friend Swinnerton Loughburne, M.A., Ph.D., L.L.D.): "Incontrovertibly
the introduction of the personal equation leads to lamentable inversions, and the perceptive
faculties when contemplating phenomena through the lens of ego too often conceive an accidental
connotation or manifest distortion to be actuality, for the physical (or personal) too often
beclouds that power of inner vision which so unerringly penetrates to the inherent truths of
incorporeity and the extramundane. Yet this problem, to your eyes, I fear, not essentially
novel or peculiarly involute, holds for my contemplative faculties an extraordinary fascination,
to wit: wherein does the mind, in itself a muscle, escape from the laws of the physical, and
wherein and wherefore do the laws of the physical exercise so inexorable a jurisdiction over
the processes of the mind, so that a disorder of the visual nerve actually distorts the asomatous
and veils the pneumatoscopic?

"Your pardon, dear Loughburne, for these lapses from the general to the particular, but in
a lighter moment of idleness, I pray you give some careless thought to a problem now painfully
my own, though rooted inevitably so deeply in the dirt of the commonplace.

"But you have asked me in letter of recent date for the particular physical aspects of my present
environment, and though (as you so well know) it is my conviction that the physical fact is
not and only the immaterial is, yet I shall gladly look about me--a thing I have not yet seen
occasion to do--and describe to you the details of my present condition."

Accordingly, at this point Randall Byrne removed from his nose his thick glasses and holding
them poised he stared through the window at the view without. He had quite changed his appearance
by removing the spectacles, for the owlish touch was gone and he seemed at a stroke ten years
younger. It was such a face as one is glad to examine in detail, lean, pale, the transparent
skin stretched tightly over cheekbones, nose, and chin. That chin was built on good fighting
lines, though somewhat over-delicate in substance and the mouth quite colourless, but oddly
enough the upper lip had that habitual appearance of stiff compression which is characteristic
of highly strung temperaments; it is a noticeable feature of nearly every great actor, for
instance. The nose was straight and very thin and in a strong sidelight a tracery of the red
blood showed through at the nostrils. The eyes were deeply buried and the lower lids bruised
with purple--weak eyes that blinked at a change of light or a sudden thought--distant eyes
which missed the design of wall paper and saw the trees growing on the mountains. The forehead
was Byrne's most noticeable feature, pyramidal, swelling largely towards the top and divided
in the centre into two distinct lobes by a single marked furrow which gave his expression a
hint of the wistful. Looking at that forehead one was strangely conscious of the brain beneath.
There seemed no bony structure; the mind, undefended, was growing and pushing the confining
walls further out.

And the fragility which the head suggested the body confirmed, for he was not framed to labor.
The burden of the noble head had bowed the slender throat and crooked the shoulders, and when
he moved his arm it seemed the arm of a skeleton too loosely clad. There was a differing connotation
in the hands, to be sure. They were thin--bones and sinews chiefly, with the violet of the
veins showing along the backs; but they were active hands without tremor--hands ideal for the
accurate scalpel, where a fractional error means death to the helpless.

After a moment of staring through the window the scholar wrote again: "The major portion of
Elkhead lies within plain sight of my window. I see a general merchandise store, twenty-seven
buildings of a comparatively major and eleven of a minor significance, and five saloons. The
streets--"

The streets, however, were not described at that sitting, for at this juncture a heavy hand
knocked and the door of Randall Byrne's room was flung open by Hank Dwight, proprietor of Elkhead's
saloon--a versatile man, expert behind the bar or in a blacksmith shop.

"Doc," said Hank Dwight, "you're wanted." Randall Byrne placed his spectacles more firmly on
his nose to consider his host.

"What--" he began, but Hank Dwight had already turned on his heel.

"Her name is Kate Cumberland. A little speed, doc. She's in a hurry."

"If no other physician is available," protested Byrne, following slowly down the stairs, "I
suppose I must see her."

"If they was another within ten miles, d'you s'pose I'd call on you?" asked Hank Dwight.

So saying, he led the way out onto the veranda, where the doctor was aware of a girl in a short
riding skirt who stood with one gloved hand on her hip while the other slapped a quirt idly
against her riding boots.

CHAPTER II

WORDS AND BULLETS

"Here's a gent that calls himself a doc," said Hank Dwight by way of an introduction. "If you
can use him, Miss Cumberland, fly to it!"

And he left them alone.

Now the sun lay directly behind Kate Cumberland and in order to look at her closely the doctor
had to shade his weak eyes and pucker his brows; for from beneath her wide sombrero there rolled
a cloud of golden hair as bright as the sunshine itself--a sad strain upon the visual nerve
of Doctor Randall Byrne. He repeated her name, bowed, and when he straightened, blinked again.
As if she appreciated that strain upon his eyes she stepped closer, and entered the shadow.

"Doctor Hardin is not in town," she said, "and I have to bring a physician out to the ranch
at once; my father is critically ill."

Randall Byrne rubbed his lean chin.

"I am not practicing at present," he said reluctantly. Then he saw that she was watching him
closely, weighing him with her eyes, and it came to the mind of Randall Byrne that he was not
a large man and might not incline the scale far from the horizontal.

"I am hardly equipped--" began Byrne.

"You will not need equipment," she interrupted. "His trouble lies in his nerves and the state
of his mind."

A slight gleam lighted the eyes of the doctor.

"Ah," he murmured. "The mind?"

"Yes."

He rubbed his bloodless hands slowly together, and when he spoke his voice was sharp and quick
and wholly impersonal. "Tell me the symptoms!"

"Can't we talk those over on the way to the ranch? Even if we start now it will be dark before
we arrive."

"But," protested the doctor, "I have not yet decided--this precipitancy--"

"Oh," she said, and flushed. He perceived that she was on the verge of turning away, but something
withheld her. "There is no other physician within reach; my father is very ill. I only ask
that you come as a diagnostician, doctor!"

"But a ride to your ranch," he said miserably. "I presume you refer to riding a horse?"

"Naturally."

"I am unfamiliar with that means of locomotion," said the doctor with serious eyes, "and in
fact have not carried my acquaintance with the equine species beyond a purely experimental
stage. Anatomically I have a superficial knowledge, but on the one occasion on which I sat
in a saddle I observed that the docility of the horse is probably a poetic fallacy."

He rubbed his left shoulder thoughtfully and saw a slight tremor at the corners of the girl's
mouth. It caused his vision to clear and concentrate; he found that the lips were, in fact,
in the very act of smiling. The face of the doctor brightened.

"You shall ride my own horse," said the girl. "She is perfectly gentle and has a very easy
gait. I'm sure you'll have not the slightest trouble with her."

"And you?"

"I'll find something about town; it doesn't matter what."

"This," said the doctor, "is most remarkable. You choose your mounts at random?"

"But you will go?" she insisted.

"Ah, yes, the trip to the ranch!" groaned the doctor. "Let me see: the physical obstacles to
such a trip while many are not altogether insuperable, I may say; in the meantime the moral
urge which compels me towards the ranch seems to be of the first order." He sighed. "Is it
not strange, Miss Cumberland, that man, though distinguished from the lower orders by mind,
so often is controlled in his actions by ethical impulses which override the considerations
of reason? An observation which leads us towards the conclusion that the passion for goodness
is a principle hardly secondary to the passion for truth. Understand that I build the hypothesis
only tentatively, with many reservations, among which--"

He broke off short. The smile was growing upon her lips.

"I will put together a few of my things," said the doctor, "and come down to you at once."

"Good!" said the girl, "I'll be waiting for you with two horses before you are ready."

He turned away, but had taken hardly a step before he turned, saying: "But why are you so sure
that you will be ready before I--" but she was already down the steps from the veranda and
stepping briskly down the street.

"There is an element of the unexplainable in woman," said the doctor, and resumed his way to
his room. Once there, something prompted him to act with the greatest possible speed. He tossed
his toilet articles and a few changes of linen into a small, flexible valise and ran down the
stairs. He reached the veranda again, panting, and the girl was not in sight; a smile of triumph
appeared on the grave, colourless lips of the doctor. "Feminine instinct, however, is not infallible,"
he observed to himself, and to one of the cowboys, lounging loosely in a chair nearby, he continued
his train of thoughts aloud: "Though the verity of the feminine intuition has already been
thrown in a shade of doubt by many thinkers, as you will undoubtedly agree."

The man thus addressed allowed his lower jaw to drop but after a moment he ejaculated: "Now
what in hell d'you mean by that?"

The doctor already turned away, intent upon his thoughts, but he now paused and again faced
the cowboy. He said, frowning: "There is unnecessary violence in your remark, sir."

"Duck your glasses," said the worthy in question. "You ain't talkin' to a book, you're talking
to a man."

"And in your attitude," went on the doctor, "there is an element of offense which if carried
farther might be corrected by physical violence."

"I don't foller your words," said the cattleman, "but from the drift of your tune I gather
you're a bit peeved; and if you are--"

His voice had risen to a ringing note as he proceeded and he now slipped from his chair and
faced Randall Byrne, a big man, brown, hard-handed. The doctor crimsoned.

"Well?" he echoed, but in place of a deep ring his words were pitched in a high squeak of defiance.

He saw a large hand contract to a fist, but almost instantly the big man grinned, and his eyes
went past Byrne.

"Oh, hell!" he grunted, and turned his back with a chuckle.

For an instant there was a mad impulse in the doctor to spring at this fellow but a wave of
impotence overwhelmed him. He knew that he was white around the mouth, and there was a dryness
in his throat.

"The excitement of imminent physical contest and personal danger," he diagnosed swiftly, "causing
acceleration of the pulse and attendant weakness of the body--a state unworthy of the balanced
intellect."

Having brought back his poise by this quick interposition of reason, he went his way down the
long veranda. Against a pillar leaned another tall cattleman, also brown and lean and hard.

"May I inquire," he said, "if you have any information direct or casual concerning a family
named Cumberland which possesses ranch property in this vicinity?"

"You may," said the cowpuncher, and continued to roll his cigarette. Can the apprentice probably once nimble to Kraemer Go
and fetch me some silk, or do you not like it? Do you love the pancakes brown, fried or not?
"At first I laughed when the roguish-innocent Face in the world questions the nature addressed
to me and said, "Get out!" Last but went I go to the fun one, explained gravity, like kings in
the puppet show, and my will amused me not a little when the soup for lunch really hit the table,
as I morning at breakfast, where I would completely filling the grandfather chair, my ridiculous
Instructions issued, had ordered. Just know I still remember the day, to the glory of the one end
and took my dragon's true nature for the first time came out. It was Wednesday, and market
day, and I had aufgekuendigt a journeyman work; get a fight with him, gentle words, where
one is merely another insurance indicates that one can live without the other. I think everything is
fine, happy and me when all of a sudden the company, I give my Lieblingsstueck: "If you just
love the God will prevail, etc. "whistle begin, hinspringt before me, with clenched fist, the Bench
suggests that a number of devices down, flies with fury and demanded that I should Say what
I have to object to him that he was not born yesterday and I know the world. "He who believes
at the end, "give him what I do," did you suspect him of theft, "in order to appease him, I say:
"The window frames there, you've made can, I like impossible, they are crooked and I wrong ."--"
in Hamburg in one of the first workshops have worked! "he falls I defiantly interrupted. "Three
days!" staggered I thoughtlessly, but the content of his book Hiking tariffs. "What? Foppen do
you want me?" He drives it on, "because you should but because -" he interrupts themselves,
but to just throw around the rock, then he enters me. I know the end a fight too well to await the
beginning, and pull me back, first to the Corridor, then, as he follows me swearing and cursing,
into the kitchen where my wife just Rueben scrapes. The raises me a look that I think they will
deal with the senseless People unite to make my defeat completely, but, far from it, it takes
the tongs and threw it to the fellow who was aware of probably as much as I do, to the head because
it will not yield, because all the meat fork flies in the shin that he loudly cries out: "A woman
as the devil!" and turns, so that he is the ash bucket, the immediately after her travels, happy
miss. Now reverses the Lena, I happened to stand behind her came to me around and looks at me.
"That was right," I stottre, "The scoundrel, the scoundrel" - "Oh," she interrupts me, "you're
a man!" and red as a boiled cancer, she sits back down at the Rueben, I sneak away. A few
minutes later she called out, "Hans!" Such was my apprentice. "He is outside in the garden,"
I answered her. "Call give him," she ruled to me, "but quickly, he will for me from now !"--"
begins to's "says I, when I went to align their instruction I was wrong not!;. Since that day
I have rarely heard from her lips a friendly word, but beaten me almost every hour with candies,
such as this are: "I will so!" or "Thou shalt not!" or "sub-floor 'you's again!" and the like more.
Well, that's not as uncomfortable as It seems whatever I am doing since then is as if she has done it,
she has by my actions and omissions more plague than myself, I have become fat, she has remained
thin and gaunt. A Joker said she could for me to go to confession, to some extent he is right.

Once - I hop in the hedge of thorns of my life from bush to bush - had I just because in the trunk
so easily commit follies, as promised, I want to express my wife at a ausschmaelen evening
to set hard, so that's out there listen to the windows should. "Will
you let's enjoy it?"

'I asked when they come home, trusting to the good effect of an open confession and their
greed, "otherwise it cost me three bottles ! Wine, so I bet ."--" Oh, happy, happy, "she said, she
was in fact - I knew ' it - weichmuetig because you had the afternoon brought a letter from the
news that her brother had died. The evening came, I was seized with a shudder, I cursed myself
and my drinking. The whole day had hidden in her face a little-Located insidious; now - they sat
behind the stove in the grandfather chair, from which I sold long ago, of course was - to's erupted
in a mocking laughter and the mocking question: "Will soon?" Significant coughing and I whisper,
announced that one out already with impatience wait; but I says: "Child, it has no express'!"--"
How long should I wait for?" drove them on. "Pst, pst angel!" I whispered, "you have to first
remember anyway ."--" Would that I only 'nen dog, "I thought,' or 'a cat' to hand, would start
driving on the I and the because under the wall thought she applies. "loud throat-clearing and in-the-hands-clapping
of Saufbrueder brings me to despair. Nothing I can think of when, angry over my hesitation,
Lena looks at me toxic. "Blast the devil too!" I hope and curse, while in the course to come.
"What ails you, dear husband?" she asked mockingly. "Child," staggered "I urgently, "Chide
schimpfieren and I must and do not know what." I knew it well, but me who vouched for their
patience, so I sought to turn everything into a joke; against because she was not kidding toughened
completely. "Give me some reasons by the hand and then beating down his eyes, otherwise you
never succeed me ."--" Well, "she replied," Do speak me after what I vorsage you, but fierce,
the sound of a bear: faithless - "-" The Devil talking to you's, "interruptible 'I,' disgraceful
'would I surely lueger !"--" Or," she continues, "cantankerous, spiteful -" - "moderate you,
child!" I fall into her word. "Will ? You soon, "she goes on, and repeated:" cantankerous, nasty
weather witch, old, accursed ! Hum hangover fear grips me, for these are phrases, which I am
sometimes in a dream served against them. At this moment the out there knocking on the window.
In the confusion I tear myself centering, as if I consider my best friends for street boys,
the window on, and also angry scold: "lighter dogs cursed rabble what's here to listen ?"--"
Bravo, bravo, Quince, "they give the answer, Lena opens a laughter, I'm like dead

Worse still - that's not - but just as bad's happened to me when I - was among three straight me
the Los taken - the priest because of a lewd preaching, so obviously coined on us Was that you showed
in the church with their fingers at us, had to confront. Immediately after the Fruehstueckszeit
- breakfast could I not - make I my way, the consortium, to me to venture into such matters little to me
to lay in wait.

"Into you have to," I said, my own way to some extent representative, I felt a craving namely,
at the parish sneak past, "or get behind you on the neck ."--" He is probably at some Sick or brought
to a christening, "I think of and open the door. Instead of the maid - while of logging passes
but always when you go to such men, some time it can use to prepare - so the priest himself appears,
for precisely with a burning pipe Coming to the kitchen, in the corridor opposite. He looks
at me, I him. "Beautiful little dog" I say finally, me to the lap dog of his wife, who was awake
at that moment, bending down and caressing him. "You Will not happen, Master Schnock?" says the
priest, and opens the door of his study. I enter. "Will you sit down you not?" I sit me. "And
is your desire?" he finally asked, surprised and impatient. "I - I'm coming!" Handle is I still
quite clear and audible, but there comes over me suddenly the vile Stammering and stuttering,
and I like my work off as I want, I'll bring it no further as to: "I come - I wanted - I was
-" - "My dear man," the priest goes last, miss my condition pointing to, "you have probably already
drunk, comes back, when your sober are. "desirable I would have not in my situation can occur when
the coarseness of the Pastor, I take my hat and hurry quickly away, glad that the Hoellenvisite
dismissed , and me of their attack on the only other dark, and so that they misunderstand me must,
leaving out.

Nevertheless, I have, despite the peaceful nature of my twice in my life dealt blows, one in the
dark, the second in the light, and both of my biological cousin, the wheelwright Vinckel. On Vinckel
I was in fact the highest levels of upset, and I had good Reason. Anyone who tells a ridiculous
story of me, the rich, I might still, and he met me again, his hand in greeting, if I did
not even more profound outrage. Niernhaeutl, the Wesselbur'ner tenants,'s my witness. Was it not he
who's ausschwatzte, I am once pulled in front of his kalekutschen
Hahn, who concealed it, that I's only because of the red vest did
that I was wearing right now?

But it was the beer, it was half an hour after midnight, and he never came back to the stupidity. Who
does it twice, the nick 'I still, if he comes in my way, but here I cough, to have to wish him not
clear in no uncertain terms a good day, who says Nettle also: waxes and prosper! But those
who do not stop, who, as he a Christening or a wedding is loaded, either dumb and stupid sitting
there as the wall on he with his back against, or his silly joke at my expense Bockspruenge we can
do that to me at the end so hated that in return supported me to the Supreme and I must give vent
to, especially since it is the nature of man so long to call out: You do not trust you enough until
he is spirited and be trusted too much start. The was Vinckel with the case, and there was also
the fact that we as relatives met us everywhere, that we could not avoid us. He was not tired,
to taunt the visit, we both put on their travels in the animal stall of Bremen and in which
we, however, had behaved very differently: he as an ignorant lout who among the living Monsters
inside and painted on the oilcloth at the entrance indistinguishable knew I like a sensible man
who knew about this difference. I must tell a visit, so you can see that I did on the occasion
of it nothing but what each other, not just the Vinckel was, would have done, and that because
I Maximum For my joke, because I might have continued to remain so, earning a reproach.

It was a serene Sunday afternoon, and I went over with Vinckel the marketplace, where the Bude
was. The vile Tierfuehrer just came out and announced in a loud Voice that should be fed beasts who
wanted to see it occur, might. Now hatt ' I Unfortunately, the day before about talking with
my companion animals and those him to teach him my heartiness of a good opinion, said that I intended
Next time they take a look. "Do you hear," he said to me, "the animals are fed, let us go in,
it does not cost a penny. "-" Eh, what, "I replied," tomorrow is also a day, and if I'm eating
it or not, that's all the same to me. Anyway Have you been here all stuffed in the museum! "Unfortunately,
the Tierfuehrer, such as such a rabble always hear maeusescharf, overheard our conversation,
he came to us and said, "Gentlemen, as of tomorrow with the previous trip I, so you want this
really Landmark Cabinet honored with your presence, so do not push
it on.

"Come, Come urged my companion, pointing to the Aushaengeschild, there are, as you see, two
Tiger is a Loewe - "-" The snake, the rare copy of a white bear, the hyena and the primates
not to mention delicious! "interrupted the Tierfuehrer. The stupid rascal believed me by listing
all the abominations that the Hoellenbude up to mischief, to be able to tempt to enter, while
I at the two tigers and the lions, that my companion mentioned, already had more than enough.
"The Tigers are well still young? "I asked." The devil, "replied the donkey," fully grown, and fiery,
as in Africa. "I shuddered." Anyway, this boa small as a Earthworm and is kept behind three
times the iron lattice ?"--" Conversely, as long as a Schiffsankertau " replied. "She's in Europe
has never before been seen bigger, and the art is precisely the fact that I am out with their
hands out of her box and lie down freely. Join only one, it will not repent. "I felt as a stand
I in front of my grave. Quite sheepishly I asked: "How are things with the hyena is also as big
as a horse?" Stupid pride smiling replied the guy: "You see those old, gray and lame dog,
the Heraufwatschelt road? Bigger is the hyena and never looks as awkward as the ."--" What you
ask long, "said my companion," we can all see. "I do not let . Disturb "There are these not
often happened to Ungluecksfaelle in your hole?" I continued, "The lion has broken loose, the
snake has crushed people? It can not help it be. I have read about it in the newspaper you !"--"
are very timid, "said the Tierfuehrer cheeky. "Not scary, not quite scary," I went on hotly,
"but known enough's that - chandeliers are lions and snakes for human flesh, "had I to say do,
but the Tierfuehrer interrupted me. "Come in, gentlemen," he said, "I would not hesitate with
the longer feeding, the animals are hungry ."--" Hungry!" called I am shocked and then I whispered
my companion's ear: "Did you hear that The Beesten? Even more interesting are hungry !"--"'s will, "the
incomprehensible man replied, "Come!" He pulled me along with it, and if I wanted to make a scandal,
I have . Follow An anti-noise of the unpleasant voices urged against us, a roar, Gequaeke,
chatter, beeping you drop. Initially, I shut your eyes, only to get used to the monster. But
soon I reflected that I was precisely because the biggest threats to suspend and close to the
dreadful snake, which I most feared getting caught, and opened them again. My first glance fell
on the horrible Kropf, fully swallowed in a few seconds and then half a tank of fish in their cage
returned. Hu! Such animals should only cheap twenty-four hours have been created before the last
day! Who would then be the end of the world have done something! Now I was aware of the lions,
who roared terribly; quickly I turned to look, but now I saw the two bloodthirsty tigers in
eternal unrest in their cages were running up and down and flapping their tails to the bars that they
shook. The bright colors rings that run these monsters around the body came to me, especially
when I blinked, before and coiled snakes that jump off too well can, while I make the little
reassuring discovery that all wooden cages were fashioned. Suddenly I was behind a gruesome
spectacle, and as I looked around, I saw the hollow-eyed, grinning hyena, straining in vain to
a piece Meat, which held up the guard to catch her. I implored the people, the animal tease
for God's sake do not, in sacrilegious mischief but he replied: "Only worry, I understand and
Bunku us "At the same time he put his mouth on the fence, and shouted," Bunku, a kiss! "applied
fast I face now and expected, at the moment and Jammertoene Cries of mangled men namely to hear.
I heard nothing, and instead I heard a strange noise of chatter and just over my head, and
when I looked up, I saw a lot of ugly monkeys with misshapen limbs and wide mouths, the the teeth
bared and I threw debris. This amused me somewhat, because they were small and cut comical grimaces,
and were fed with apples, and I laughed so much I was otherwise disposed to laugh when I noticed
that some in their voracity the mouth stuffed so full, as if there is a pantry would be. But
how was I felt as I turned around and randomly on a box at the I was leaning with his back,
had the terrible boa, not ten inches from me away, saw. There she lay, stretched out long, gruesome,
blood-sucking resident the forests of a foreign part of the world - a leap, and they encircled
me, they crushed my Bones, they fattened from my marrow. She pulled himself together, I gave a
loud cry and jumped to the door. Long-necked birds, ostriches, they called the Tierfuehrer
extended to me here's than they had on my eyes, apart from a cage, their heads over the high,
also rose against the sharp beaks. I was not much around the neighborhood Riesenvoegel this
and approached the snake again by one step, hardly stood I still as frightened me a rattle,
which is let me hear about.
 Then he sat some as usual, one hand inside of the
other, looking steady at nothing. But a while ago he began getting sort of nervous."

"What did he do?"

"Nothing. I just felt he was getting excited. The way you know when your hoss is going to shy."

"Do you want to go to your room first, doctor, or will you go in to see him now?"

"Now," decided the doctor, and followed her down the hall and through a door.

The room reminded the doctor more of a New England interior than of the mountain-desert. There
was a round rag rug on the floor with every imaginable colour woven into its texture, but blended
with a rude design, reds towards the centre and blue-greys towards the edges. There were chairs
upholstered in green which looked mouse-coloured where the high lights struck along the backs
and the arms--shallow-seated chairs that made one's knees project foolishly high and far. Byrne
saw a cabinet at one end of the room, filled with sea-shells and knicknacks, and above it was
a memorial cross surrounded by a wreath inside a glass case. Most of the wall space thronged
with engravings whose subjects ranged from Niagara Falls to Lady Hamilton. One entire end of
the room was occupied by a painting of a neck and neck finish in a race, and the artist had
conceived the blooded racers as creatures with tremendous round hips and mighty-muscled shoulders,
while the legs tapered to a faun-like delicacy. These animals were spread-eagled in the most
amazing fashion, their fore-hoofs reaching beyond their noses and their rear hoofs striking
out beyond the tips of the tails. The jockey in the lead sat quite still, but he who was losing
had his whip drawn and looked like an automatic doll--so pink were his cheeks. Beside the course,
in attitudes of graceful ease, stood men in very tight trousers and very high stocks and ladies
in dresses which pinched in at the waist and flowed out at the shoulders. They leaned upon
canes or twirled parasols and they had their backs turned upon the racetrack as if they found
their own negligent conversation far more exciting than the breathless, driving finish.

Under the terrific action and still more terrific quiescence of this picture lay the sick man,
propped high on a couch and wrapped to the chest in a Navajo blanket.

"Dad," said Kate Cumberland, "Doctor Hardin was not in town. I've brought out Doctor Byrne,
a newcomer."

The invalid turned his white head slowly towards them, and his shaggy brows lifted and fell
slightly--a passing shadow of annoyance. It was a very stern face, and framed in the long,
white hair it seemed surrounded by an atmosphere of Arctic chill. He was thin, terribly thin--not
the leanness of Byrne, but a grim emaciation which exaggerated the size of a tall forehead
and made his eyes supernally bright. It was in the first glance of those eyes that Byrne recognized
the restlessness of which Kate had spoken; and he felt almost as if it were an inner fire which
had burned and still was wasting the body of Joseph Cumberland. To the attentions of the doctor
the old man submitted with patient self-control, and Byrne found a pulse feeble, rapid, but
steady. There was no temperature. In fact, the heat of the body was a trifle sub-normal, considering
that the heart was beating so rapidly.

Doctor Byrne started. Most of his work had been in laboratories, and the horror of death was
not yet familiar, but old Joseph Cumberland was dying. It was not a matter of moment. Death
might be a week or a month away, but die soon he inevitably must; for the doctor saw that the
fire was still raging in the hollow breast of the cattleman, but there was no longer fuel to
feed it.

He stared again, and more closely. Fire without fuel to feed it!

Doctor Byrne gave what seemed to be an infinitely muffled cry of exultation, so faint that
it was hardly a whisper; then he leaned closer and pored over Joe Cumberland with a lighted
eye. One might have thought that the doctor was gloating over the sick man.

Suddenly he straightened and began to pace up and down the room, muttering to himself. Kate
Cumberland listened intently and she thought that what the man muttered so rapidly, over and
over to himself, was: "Eureka! Eureka! I have found it!"

Found what? The triumph of mind over matter!

On that couch was a dead body. The flutter of that heart was not the strong beating of the
normal organ; the hands were cold; even the body was chilled; yet the man lived.

Or, rather, his brain lived, and compelled the shattered and outworn body to comply with its
will. Doctor Byrne turned and stared again at the face of Cumberland. He felt as if he understood,
now, the look which was concentrated so brightly on the vacant air. It was illumined by a steady
and desperate defiance, for the old man was denying his body to the grave.

The scene changed for Randall Byrne. The girl disappeared. The walls of the room were broken
away. The eyes of the world looked in upon him and the wise men of the world kept pace with
him up and down the room, shaking their heads and saying: "It is not possible!"

But the fact lay there to contradict them.

Prometheus stole fire from heaven and paid it back to an eternal death. The old cattleman was
refusing his payment. It was no state of coma in which he lay; it was no prolonged trance.
He was vitally, vividly alive; he was concentrating with a bitter and exhausting vigour day
and night, and fighting a battle the more terrible because it was fought in silence, a battle
in which he could receive no aid, no reinforcement, a battle in which he could not win, but
in which he might delay defeat.

Ay, the wise men would smile and shake their heads when he presented this case to their consideration,
but he would make his account so accurate and particular and so well witnessed that they would
have to admit the truth of all he said. And science, which proclaimed that matter was indestructible
and that the mind was matter and that the brain needed nourishment like any other muscle--science
would have to hang the head and wonder!

The eyes of the girl brought him to halt in his pacing, and he stopped, confronting her. His
excitement had transformed him. His nostrils were quivering, his eyes were pointed with light,
his head was high, and he breathed fast. He was flushed as the Roman Conqueror. And his excitement
tinged the girl, also, with colour.

She offered to take him to his room as soon as he wished to go. He was quite willing. He wanted
to be alone, to think. But when he followed her she stopped him in the hall. Buck Daniels lumbered
slowly after them in a clumsy attempt at sauntering.

"Well?" asked Kate Cumberland.

She had thrown a blue mantle over her shoulders when she entered the house, and the touch of
boyish self-confidence which had been hers on the ride was gone. In its place there was something
even more difficult for Randall Byrne to face. If there had been a garish brightness about
her when he had first seen her, the brilliancy of a mirror playing in the sun against his feeble
eyes, there was now a blending of pastel shades, for the hall was dimly illumined and the shadow
tarnished her hair and her pallor was like cold stone; even her eyes were misted by fear. Yet
a vital sense of her nearness swept upon Byrne, and he felt as if he were surrounded--by a danger.

"Opinions," said the doctor, "based on so summary an examination are necessarily inexact, yet
the value of a first impression is not negligible. The best I can say is that there is probably
no immediate danger, but Mr. Cumberland is seriously ill. Furthermore, it is not old age."

He would not say all he thought; it was not yet time.

She winced and clasped her hands tightly together. She was like a child about to be punished
for a crime it has not committed, and it came vaguely to the doctor that he might have broached
his ill tidings more gently.

He added: "I must have further opportunities for observance before I give a detailed opinion
and suggest a treatment."

Her glance wandered past him and at once the heavy step of Buck Daniels approached.

"At least," she murmured, "I am glad that you are frank. I don't want to have anything kept
from me, please. Buck, will you take the doctor up to his room?" She managed a faint smile.
"This is an old-fashioned house, Doctor Byrne, but I hope we can make you fairly comfortable.
You'll ask for whatever you need?"

The doctor bowed, and was told that they would dine in half an hour, then the girl went back
towards the room in which Joe Cumberland lay. She walked slowly, with her head bent, and her
posture seemed to Byrne the very picture of a burden-bearer. Then he followed Daniels up the
stairs, led by the jingling of the spurs, great-rowelled spurs that might grip the side of
a refractory horse like teeth.

A hall-light guided them, and from the hall Buck Daniels entered a room and fumbled above him
until he had lighted a lamp which was suspended by two chains from the ceiling, a circular
burner which cast a glow as keen as an electric globe. It brought out every detail of the old-fashioned
room--the bare, painted floor; the bed, in itself a separate and important piece of architecture
with its four tall posts, a relic of the times when beds were built, not simply made; and there
was a chest of drawers with swelling, hospitable front, and a rectangular mirror above with
its date in gilt paint on the upper edge. A rising wind shook the window and through some crack
stirred the lace curtains; it was a very comfortable retreat, and the doctor became aware of
aching muscles and a heavy brain when he glanced at the bed.

The same gust of wind which rattled the window-pane now pushed, as with invisible and ghostly
hand, a door which opened on the side of the bedroom, and as it swung mysteriously and gradually
wide the doctor found himself looking into an adjoining chamber. All he could see clearly was
a corner on which struck the shaft of light from the lamp, and lying on the floor in that corner
was something limp and brown. A snake, he surmised at first, but then he saw clearly that it
was a chain of formidable proportions bolted against the wall at one end and terminating at
the other in a huge steel collar. A chill started in the boots of the doctor and wriggled its
uncomfortable way up to his head.

"Hell!" burst out Buck Daniels. "How'd that door get open?" He slammed it with violence. "She's
been in there again, I guess," muttered the cowpuncher, as he stepped back, scowling.

"Who?" ventured the doctor.

Buck Daniels whirled on him.

"None of your--" he began hotly, but checked himself with choking suddenness and strode heavily
from the room.

CHAPTER V

THE WAITING

The doctor removed his coat with absent-minded slowness, and all the time that he was removing
the dust and the stains of travel, he kept narrowing the eye of his mind to visualise more
clearly that cumbersome chain which lay on the floor of the adjoining room. Now, the doctor
was not of a curious or gossipy nature, but if someone had offered to tell him the story of
that chain for a thousand dollars, the doctor at that moment would have thought the price ridiculously
small.

Then the doctor went down to the dinner table prepared to keep one eye upon Buck Daniels and
the other upon Kate Cumberland. But if he expected to learn through conversation at the table
he was grievously disappointed, for Buck Daniels ate with an eye to strict business that allowed
no chatter, and the girl sat with a forced smile and an absent eye. Now and again Buck would
glance up at her, watch her for an instant, and then turn his attention back to his plate with
a sort of gloomy resolution; there were not half a dozen words exchanged from the beginning
to the end of the meal.

After that they went in to the invalid. He lay in the same position, his skinny hands crossed
upon his breast, and his shaggy brows were drawn so low that the eyes were buried in profound
shadow. They took positions in a loose semi-circle, all pointing towards the sick man, and
it reminded Byrne with grim force of a picture he had seen of three wolves waiting for the
bull moose to sink in the snows: they, also, were waiting for a death. It seemed, indeed, as
if death must have already come; at least it could not make him more moveless than he was.
Against the dark wall his profile was etched by a sharp highlight which was brightest of all
on his forehead and his nose; while the lower portion of the face was lost in comparative shadow.

So perfect and so detailed was the resemblance to death, indeed, that the lips in the shadow
smiled--fixedly. It was not until Kate Cumberland shifted a lamp, throwing more light on her
father, that Byrne saw that the smile was in reality a forcible compression of the lips. He
understood, suddenly, that the silent man on the couch was struggling terribly against an hysteria
of emotion. It brought beads of sweat out upon the doctor's tall forehead; for this perfect
repose suggested an agony more awful than yells and groans and struggles. The silence was like
acid; it burned without a flame. And Byrne knew, that moment, the quality of the thing which
had wasted the rancher. It was this acid of grief or yearning which had eaten deep into him
and was now close to his heart. The girl had said that for six months he had been failing.
Six months! Six eternities of burning at the stake!

He lay silent, waiting; and his resignation meant that he knew death would come before that
for which he waited. Silence, that was the key-note of the room. The girl was silent, her eyes
dark with grief; yet they were not fixed upon her father. It came thrilling home to Byrne that
her sorrow was not entirely for her dying parent, for she looked beyond him rather than at
him. Was she, too, waiting? Was that what gave her the touch of sad gravity, the mystery like
the mystery of distance?

And Buck Daniels. He, also, said nothing. He rolled cigarettes one after another with amazing
dexterity and smoked them with half a dozen Titanic breaths. His was a single-track mind. He
loved the girl, and he bore the sign of his love on his face. He wanted her desperately; it
was a hunger like that of Tantalus, too keen to be ever satisfied. Yet, still more than he
looked at the girl, he, also, stared into the distance. He, also, was waiting!

It was the deep suspense of Cumberland which made him so silently alert. He was as intensely
alive as the receiver of a wireless apparatus; he gathered information from the empty air. The devil will get me where I and You re-enter
a bet !"--" What is the bet for? "I asked curiously." Will It be so impolite to leave the question
of Dr. unanswered, "said the postmaster vividly to Schnock, but this looked to me, put his finger
to his lips and remained in Still silence. "Well," I replied indifferently, "I do not want
to penetrate secrets, Farewell, Master Schnock "Schnock got up and he took my offered hand, she
hearty oppressive, then he took the piece of chalk, which operate the pool player habit, and
wrote it on the table, giving me a happy holiday wishes. "Is The man became silent, "I said, stepping
out the door, accompanied me to the postmaster. "Nothing less than that of pure selfishness!"
said the postmaster. "Why?" I asked, startled. "He wants to eat and drink with me and nothing,"
the postmaster replied, "why does he dumb. I need it today namely, we bet on yesterday night in a frenzy,
Put the best food and wine as long as free, until it is to laugh or Talk can be carried away.
He laughs, or speaks a word, he must - herein lies my Advantage - to pay for everything twice and
feels that he is now, of course, then I know who still tonight pulls hair from the head and runs
with the skull against the wall. But, he may beware! I allow myself to him, what comes to mind,
and tricks and intrigues's missing none of my family.
 The torch had been
blown out in the hand of his guide. From somewhere in the black depths before them came a laugh,
made unhuman by echoes. And Byrne had visioned the mummied dead pushing back the granite lids
of their sarcophagi and sitting upright.

But that was nothing compared with this. Not half so wild or strange.

He listened again, breathless, with the sharp prickling running up and down his spine. It was
the honking of the wild geese, flying north. And out of the sound he builded a picture of the
grey triangle cleaving through the cold upper sky, sent on a mission no man could understand.

"Was I right? Was I right?" shrilled the invalid, and when Byrne turned towards him, he saw
the old man sitting erect, with an expression of wild triumph. There came an indescribable
cry from the girl, and a deep throated curse from Buck Daniels as he slammed down the window.

With the chill blast shut off and the flame burning steadily once more in the lamp, a great
silence besieged the room, with a note of expectancy in it. Byrne was conscious of being warm,
too warm. I recognized the voice of my companion, the
hergeschlichen might be behind me. Certainly over the past hundred years not a dirty word been invented,
which I did not fly at his head, and those of sex because did not fit me, he blurted out against
Lena. I was silent, however, Lene detonated its light and asked him about it calmly, if he is
her father or her brother. As he does said no, she said, he would also talk to do bargain when
he her groom with her to perform them, for that I was. She hugged me and said: "Not true, Chris?
There you would have never occurred at a respectable girl by night through the window to increase
if you are not entertained the most serious intentions? to me it would at least never in come
to mind to invite you to this when I Following the opening of your mother not allowed to assume
would have! "I remained silent and said nothing until I felt, that my silence had already decided
everything, and that it was ridiculous not to do to persist. My companions ran back scornfully. Lene
released me from the embrace, to me seemed like a trap, I approached the window again. But
she noticed the almost as if to thank the Rock Scho food seized and wondered when we make wedding
wanted, whether I was right when it is done to Michael, as her mother suggesting, or if I click
on another day there would be. "Above All Saints I let myself to anything!" said I found and
determined and cracked out without waiting for the reply, with one sentence. Outdoors I received
my company with clenched fists and fell on me. I thought it was my duty to let me durchpruegeln of
him and let him try, But at the same time, to warn him of the event which caused course only to the
fact that he me when he allowed his arms a little rest, a double and triple cream puffs called
and then belaboured with renewed rage on me. Finally he grabbed me at all in the throat and
did his best to crush me, it had been raining all day, Ground was muddy, and who was wearing
his best coat, like me, had any contact with her, except the one afraid of can not be avoided.
I therefore could not help but longer, the insane person I was about to put Leibesstaerke to
strike a blow, and gave him a face, but had hardly done so when's it I regretted, for I had just
met him on the nose, and he fell silent, like an ox of an ax of the butcher, to the ground. I thought
to have become an involuntary murderer and cursed my fate, for I remembered from my travels forth
a case where a smith killed in battle by a tailor had a single blow, and I knew what my fist
could, if properly so I raised his arm. I swore to heaven, nor the same Evening, if it would
require to do with Lene wedding when he man again raise him up; I swore the man, the girl
with any eye to see more when he returns from self- get up, and I was not aware of the contradiction
between the two oaths. I began to long for me for things that has probably longed for no one: after
a Lout from the lips of my enemy, according to a hungry, even after a slap and a Kick. Finally,
I went to test out whether there was life in him, he stretched out on the rough lying there hand.
As he straightened up and bit me a little fast to me the proof to be thoroughly in the leg. It was very
painful, and I uttered a loud cry, but inside I was happy about that bite. Now he sneezed, jumped
up and pressed again me. So as not to kill but still, I thought I was on the feet, and reached,
troubled as ever, to my mother. They came to me on the floor with a lighted lamp counter and greeted
me with an angry-friendly face. "Where have you been?" called me too, but could not suppress a
smile not stupid-smart, forward and saw that I did not need to answer the question. I pointed to my bleeding
leg and said: "God forgive you, what have you done to me!" Then I went without her to stand
next speech in my bedroom, me unbolted and opened the door had not even when she told me old
linen for dressing the wound did, but tore up for that purpose in my bitterness a brand new
shirt. However, I slept better in the evening following that night, than you might expect,
which I attribute to the fact that up All Saints still a full quarter of a point was. Those
who, like me, for so long before knows when he in the marriage must occur that is, if he did
not fall entirely on the head, not blindly , Run into it as the fox in the trap, he will walk
with care and deliberation to work and take every precaution, the man is in such a situation
at his command. My I started the evening after the engagement was awful to teach my fiancee the
conviction of physical strength that I do not mangle. I wore when I with my mother or else in
the vicinity knew, thick beams, rammed without the aid of the journeyman with great Muehe Pfaehler
one, so, one afternoon, I dragged all the hard bench of oak on the back of continued what was
a horse work. Likewise, I shall thank decorous Occasions, as if I would be very heated colliding
temperament, as I even have a Muecke stabbed in the face, I swear barbaric and said to me, apparently
the Muecke because, such a fierce blow on the nose, that blood flowed, a mouse, one morning in the
kitchen, where Lena helped my mother when Gaenserupfen, came to light, I went with a noise going
on, both women screamed loudly, and immediately turns' I a screaming young kittens, I had kicked
around the neck, and it scratched me strong. Several times I met an old beggar, after I surreptitiously
before him a shilling slipped, so he let it put up, out the door, my apprentice, I switched once,
Before breakfast, an ox head and threatened him that I wanted him behind the chimney , Hanged
out what the little guy was so startled that he felt sorry for myself. "Are you so full of bile?
"asked Lena, me pushing the hand as if it's liked." How's will take, "I replied shortly and
let go of her hand." You are a very different to become the wandering, "said my mother," You
used to devout and thoughtful, like a Lamb! "-" Each person's teeth grow, "I said, and whistled
a canter waltz. I recently came neatly into the habit, the sound of my voice was something harsh
and to my gestures have been foolhardy. I also believe still stiff and strong that a Man of
valor and presence of mind can be used to, such as in riding, jumping and swimming, but you
have to stop him from early on it;'s is not innate, each has spent his life loving. In my youth,
this did not happen, I could not go to the brook, because my mother was afraid to drown, I
would like, if I was playing with other boys and something quickly ran, they shouted to me: "Materials
moose," she called me up in my sixteenth Year, when I forbade it to me seriously, always substance
elk, "beware that you do not fall and you smash his head, "I once tried to climb on our little
cherry, they ripped me back by the hair down. Yes, I would only have in my twenty-second Year,
as so many of my comrades, a soldier must be! This constant contact with loaded guns, they
handle sharp bayonets, this fear of corporal, Foppereien this fear, which do not fail if you
have not male at: All this would have 'made me into a guy as good as any in Wirtshaeusern
the beard removed, grim looks like bullets fired without cause and with clenched Fists had struck
on the table. Well, it has to be not so, and God gave me here to help, he will also help me
until my happy end.

Lene on this certainly gives an impression, but he was of a different kind than I had intended.
Instead of me, but before we look back a ton of powder filled, it seemed more and more Taste
to find me: I think I could have the devil himself, it's waer quite been, they might feel confident
to it, to tame even the devil. So I was it because quite indifferent, as the plan I of a Sunday lunch
- have to Sundays' I lead a walk - at a large, we encountered poodle built, went into the water. She
had I just said to her naughty in his ear: "I 'love you but rather love, Christoph !"--" The Poodle
there, "I thought," is supposed to cure you from the damned love something and you some respect
You inspire your future before, and I will show thee, that I not only with mice Kittens and
accommodating, but, despite its poisonous teeth, even with a dog. " So I walked, without him,
as usual, dodge, fresh on the poodle. It was a oppressive heat, the poodle, stubbornly pursued
to laziness, but not growling, but already impudent and shameless, looking up to me in a straight
line on his way. Lene wanted to turn aside. "What!" I cried, she holding on, "you will just the
vile Koëter not fear? "I took like a man possessed with the Spazierstoeckchen
from the Shock.

The poodle does not withdraw, challenging the teeth baring he sees me. I suggest to really irritated.
If you believe it? The essays beast grabs me in the calves, rather than to go on the run. Since
I overwhelmed my nature I tear me away from my fiancee and jump over the ditch. I am seized by
shame, as I become aware of the involuntary tearing, I hardly dare to look me. "The ! Danger
is over, "calls out, laughing my Lene, to my great chagrin, I notice that it has sold the dog
properly and Steinwuerfen with him, I reveal to scorn, some want to redirect. "Dear child,"
I say, "take care of yourself, because you consider not that we are in the dog days? It's great
!"--" What? "She exclaims, suddenly frightening from their stones and lets fall to the ground. "However,"
I could remove and return again her side and, "you did not notice it was foaming at the mouth, as
the tail between the legs tucked how ugly his eyes were red, what unnatural lust He contributed
to human flesh? "At this moment the hideous poodle hot as he might be from the race, on water,
punishing me in his animal stupidity lies. But Lene was not aware of it, she shot an angry glance
at me, first, if I right, and cried with rage and fright almost choked voice: "And you told
me not now? "Wonderful is my gift to get the lie pointed, when it really matters, herauszuluegen
me. "Child," responding "and I gather for them to tell me hers, but two loaded pistols to withdraw
his eyes looking at me, at the edge of the trench, a forget-me-not, "'I could as's know that
you have not read about it, what about mad dogs in the calendar is ?"--" Well, "replied as with her
own, unfeminine composure and put the flower, I gallantly over her rich, at the chest, the neck's
has not even tasted. Hopefully You did not dislocated in the bold jump the bones? "That was
sarcasm, I noted 'it the same and did not answer.

"In wine there is truth!" says the proverb. It is only from one half of the human Sex, the male,
the women never confess, not even the wine. The've I experienced that same Sunday. brought
with afternoon I Hinckeldeyschen Lene in the garden. "We can then drink coffee or tea", I said, but
I knew well that other than wine, Rum and similar wall breakers was to have nothing. When the
waiter who was called this explained, is' I wonder and saw Lena with a pitiful face. "Well,"
she said, "bring so let 'wine, but for me it's water ."--" Herrlich's, thought I, rubbing my
hands with pleasure, and then ordered I Eighty-four, who, like I knew very quickly rose to
the head, also an ample serving of sugar, for by the seduced one of the easiest women to drink.
"Your health!" I called her the full glass, into which I had poured a lot of wine and a little
water, enough. She wanted to drink only half, I let this do not apply, however, and because
the last half because of the dregs of sugar was sweeter than the first, it was not too long
in the penetrate. Hoeflich, I had 'expected it, she said, "But now even yours!" Quickly gave
I have the glasses full again. "Impossible," she cried, "can I's quite clear to me is already so strange!
"-" Then, "I replied," do you love me not "a moment. saw them down in front of him in his
lap, and then drank it slowly, my hand across the table factor - I was sitting not on their side,
but its opposite - and arrest me viewing that Glass. She was hard, that I saw. "Now she is bubbling
over soon," I thought, "'ll Clean things I know, but good it is when you know it, where the
wind is blowing it can act accordingly.

"I kicked her, as if by accident, on foot, hoping that she's should resent;'s drunk she was, as it was,
for a token of affection. "'S will do nothing," I thought, "the evil will probably come to the
fore when the reflection fades even more; it does have a suspicious red on the cheeks, her eyes swimming.
"-" But my Mother, "says I, and again gave the glasses." Yes, your mother said, " it lively, "but
I sip a little !"--" Better something than nothing!" 'thought I, and let it go at that. Now
they saw almost no longer on, but smiled in a continued quietly to himself. Mindful 'I was
watching their every move. Right to happiness Hours turned out, sniffing the garden cruising,
up a poodle. "The mill is the set in motion, "thought I whistled and the dog. Not quite, I
had miscalculated." Record you still care, my dear, "she cried, and she noticed that I drew the
dog," he can be great or it can be. "She laughed that her tears came to my eyes. But it was
nothing more. From carelessness, I came to the water bottle, the Water, herabstroemend on all
sides of the table wet, before she could escape her A dress. "Oh, Lord Jesus!" she cried,
and flew up from her seat. "Now it's coming!" thought ' I pointed and the ears, but the Lord Jesus
was a mere precursor to a good-natured "It does nothing, there's no wine!" Annoying me biting her
lips, I began to curse myself and my reduced. "Clumsy," I began, "I am like a school child. When
I - this was not a lie - the last time went to Communion, plumped I, you should believe it,
before the altar, I should just sip from the cup down, as too heavily laden donkey Mueller
."--" Pooh! "she interrupted me and wrinkled her nose. "Yes," I continued, with vivacity, "as
I was the child of my cousin was to be baptized, let I slide the poor worm from the pillow
and fall to the baptismal font, where he is at a Corner miserably pounded his head ."--" How?
what do you say? "she asked when I told her, contemptuous Eyes, head, etc. shu ettelnd expecting
more, boldly, and looked in with lustful eyes. With exaggerations I repeated the already only
half true baptism. "Ah," sighed them, "I I 'so much headache, Had but the wine is not drunk!" I
was always heated, like a hunter when he often pulled the trigger and never meets, and threw
myself now quite in the lie. "In Bremen," said 'I came, "I am a baker, with whom I slept, at
night when turning over in his sleep with his elbow in the eye ."--" That's terrible! " drove
on them. "You koennt'st I suppose, when you sleep and dream, the house on fire !"--" course!"
I drove hypocritically continued calmly, "sleepwalking have I am not in Frankfort any reasonable cause
once erhenkt. The rope was rotten and broke, or else also sat I here probably not drink, and your
health ."--" You carry antics, "she said, laughing loudly, and I held his hand over her mouth.
"It's the truth," I added with a Ernst, whom she had believed, I am now even those in Ungluecksmensch,
what I . Happened, happened so easily no second "I sighed miserably, then I asked slyly: "Not
true, Lena, if you had known how it would actually tell me, would you have you thank you for
being such a man ?"--" Something is certainly bad, "she gave to Answer, "but we do get him
in !"--" Why? How do you mean?" 'I asked quickly and lurking.
 Now the doctor became aware that the eye of Buck Daniels was widening,
brightening; it was as if the mind of the big man were giving way in the strain. His face blanched.
Even the lips had no colour, and they moved, gibberingly.

"Listen!" he said.

"It is the wind," answered the doctor, but his voice was hardly audible.

"Listen!" commanded Daniels again.

The doctor could hear it then. It was a pulse of sound obscure as the thudding of his heart.
But it was a human sound and it made his throat close up tightly, as if a hand were settling
around his wind-pipe. Buck Daniels rose from his chair; that half-mad, half-listening look
was still in his eyes--behind his eyes. Staring at him the doctor understood, intimately, how
men can throw their lives away gloriously in battle, fighting for an idea; or how they can
commit secret and foul murder. Yet he was more afraid of that pulse of sound than of the face
of Buck Daniels. He, also, was rising from his chair, and when Daniels stalked to the side
door of the room and leaned there, the doctor followed.

Then they could hear it clearly. There was a note of music in the voice; it was a woman weeping
in that room where the chain lay on the floor, coiled loosely like a snake. Buck Daniels straightened
and moved away from the door. He began to laugh, guarding it so that not a whisper could break
outside the room, and his silent laughter was the most horrible thing the doctor had ever seen.
It was only for a moment. The hysteria passed and left the big man shaking like a dead leaf.

"Doc," he said, "I can't stand it no longer. I'm going out and try to get him back here. And
God forgive me for it."

He left the room, slamming the door behind him, and then he stamped down the hall as if he
were trying to make a companion out of his noise. Doctor Randall Byrne sat down to put his
thoughts in order. He began at the following point: "The physical fact is not; only the immaterial
is." But before he had carried very far his deductions from this premise, he caught the neighing
of a horse near the house; so he went to the window and threw it open. At the same time he
heard the rattle of galloping hoofs, and then he saw a horseman riding furiously into the heart
of the wind. Almost at once the rider was lost from sight.

CHAPTER VII

JERRY STRANN

The wrath of the Lord seems less terrible when it is localised, and the world at large gave
thanks daily that the range of Jerry Strann was limited to the Three B's. As everyone in the
mountain-desert knows, the Three B's are Bender, Buckskin, and Brownsville; they make the points
of a loose triangle that is cut with canyons and tumbled with mountains, and that triangle
was the chosen stamping ground of Jerry Strann. Jerry was not born in the region of the Three
B's and why it should have been chosen specially by him was matter which the inhabitants could
not puzzle out; but they felt that for their sins the Lord had probably put his wrath among
them in the form of Jerry Strann.

He was only twenty-four, this Jerry, but he was already grown into a proverb. Men of the Three
B's reckoned their conversational dates by the visits of the youth; if a storm hung over the
mountains someone might remark: "It looks like Jerry Strann is coming," and such a remark was
always received in gloomy silence; mothers had been known to hush their children by chanting:
"Jerry Strann will get you if you don't watch out." Yet he was not an ogre with a red knife
between his teeth. He stood at exactly the perfect romantic height; he was just six feet tall;
he was as graceful as a young cotton-wood in a windstorm and he was as strong and tough as
the roots of the mesquite. He was one of those rare men who are beautiful without being unmanly.
His face was modelled with the care a Praxiteles would lavish on a Phoebus. His brown hair
was thick and dark and every touch of wind stirred it, and his hazel eyes were brilliant with
an enduring light--the inextinguishable joy of life.

Consider that there was no malice in Jerry Strann. But he loved strife as the young Apollo
loved strife--or a pure-blooded bull terrier. He fought with distinction and grace and abandon
and was perfectly willing to use fists or knives or guns at the pleasure of the other contracting
party. In another age, with armour and a golden chain and spurs, Jerry Strann would have been--but
why think of that? Swords are not forty-fives, and the Twentieth Century is not the Thirteenth.
He was, in fact, born just six hundred years too late. From his childhood he had thirsted for
battle as other children thirst for milk: and now he rode anything on hoofs and threw a knife
like a Mexican--with either hand--and at short range he did snap shooting with two revolvers
that made rifle experts sick at heart.

However, the men of the Three B's, as everyone understands, are not gentle or long-enduring,
and you will wonder why this young destroyer was allowed to range at large so long. There was
a vital reason. Up in the mountains lived Mac Strann, the hermit-trapper, who hated everything
in the wide world except his young brother, the beautiful, wild, and sunny Jerry Strann. And
Mac Strann loved his brother as much as he hated everything else; it is impossible to state
it more strongly. It was not long before the men of the Three B's discovered how Mac Strann
felt about his brother. After Jerry's famous Hallowe'en party in Buckskin, for instance, Williamson,
McKenna, and Rath started out to rid the country of the disturber. They went out to hunt him
as men go out to hunt a wild mustang. And they caught him and bent him down--those three stark
men--and he lay in bed for a month; but before the month was over Mac Strann came down from
his mountain and went to Buckskin and gathered Williamson and McKenna and Rath in one public
place. And when the morning came Williamson and McKenna and Rath had left this vale of tears
and Mac Strann was back on his mountain. He was not even arrested. For there was a devilish
cunning about the fellow and he made his victims, without exception, attack him first; then
he destroyed them, suddenly and surely, and retreated to his lair. Things like this happened
once or twice and then the men of the Three B's understood that it was not wise to lay plots
for Jerry Strann. They accepted him, as I have said before, as men accept the wrath of God.

Let it not be thought that Jerry Strann was a solitary like his brother. When he went out for
a frolic the young men of the community gathered around him, for Jerry paid all scores and
the red-eye flowed in his path like wine before the coming of Bacchus; where Jerry went there
was never a dull moment, and young men love action. So it happened that when he rode into Brownsville
this day he was the leader of a cavalcade. Rumour rode before them, and doors were locked and
windows were darkened, and men sat in the darkness within with their guns across their knees.
For Brownsville lay at the extreme northern tip of the triangle and it was rarely visited by
Jerry; and it is well established that men fear the unfamiliar more than the known.

As has been said, Jerry headed the train of revellers, partially because it was most unwise
to cut in ahead of Jerry and partially because there was not a piece of horseflesh in the Three
B's which could outfoot his chestnut. It was a gelding out of the loins of the north wind and
sired by the devil himself, and its spirit was one with the spirit of Jerry Strann; perhaps
because they both served one master. The cavalcade came with a crash of racing hoofs in a cloud
of dust. But in the middle of the street Jerry raised his right arm stiffly overhead with a
whoop and brought his chestnut to a sliding stop; the cloud of dust rolled lazily on ahead.
The young men gathered quickly around the leader, and there was silence as they waited for
him to speak--a silence broken only by the wheezing of the horses, and the stench of sweating
horseflesh was in every man's nostrils.

"Who owns that hoss?" asked Jerry Strann, and pointed.

He had stopped just opposite O'Brien's hotel, store, blacksmith shop, and saloon, and by the
hitching rack was a black stallion. Now, there are some men who carry tidings of their inward
strength stamped on their foreheads and written in their eyes. In times of crises crowds will
turn to such men and follow them as soldiers follow a captain; for it is patent at a glance
that this is a man of men. It is likewise true that there are horses which stand out among
their fellows, and this was such a horse. He was such a creature that, if he had been led to
a barrier, the entire crowd at the race track would rise as one man and say: "What is that
horse?" There were points in which some critics would find fault; most of the men of the mountain-desert,
for instance, would have said that the animal was too lightly and delicately limbed for long
endurance; but as the man of men bears the stamp of his greatness in his forehead and his eyes,
so it was with the black stallion. When the thunder of the cavalcade had rushed upon him down
the street he had turned with catlike grace and raised his head to see; and his forehead and
his eyes arrested Jerry Strann like a levelled rifle. Looking at that proud head one forgot
the body of the horse, the symmetry of curves exquisite beyond the sculptor's dream, the arching
neck and the steel muscles; one was only conscious of the great spirit. In Human beings we
refer to it as "personality."

After a little pause, seeing that no one offered a suggestion as to the identity of the owner,
Strann said, softly: "That hoss is mine."

It caused a stir in the crowd of his followers. In the mountain-desert one may deal lightly
with a man's wife and lift a random cow or two and settle the score, at need, with a snug "forty-five"
chunk of lead. But with horses it is different. A horse in the mountain-desert lies outside
of all laws--and above all laws. It is greater than honour and dearer than love, and when a
man's horse is taken from him the men of the desert gather together and hunt the thief whether
it be a day or whether it be a month, and when they have reached him they shoot him like a
dog and leave his flesh to the buzzards and his bones to the merciless stars. For all of this
there is a reason. But Jerry Strann swung from his mount, tossed the reins over the head of
the chestnut, and walked towards the black with hungry eyes. He was careless, also, and venturing
too close--the black whirled with his sudden, catlike agility, and two black hoofs lashed within
a hair's breadth of the man's shoulder. There was a shout from the crowd, but Jerry Strann
stepped back and smiled so that his teeth showed.

"Boys," he said, but he was really speaking to himself, "there's nothing in the world I want
as bad as I want that hoss. Nothing! I'm going to buy him; where's the owner?"

"Don't look like a hoss a man would want to sell, Jerry," came a suggestion from the cavalcade,
who had dismounted and now pressed behind their leader.

Jerry favoured the speaker with another of his enigmatic smiles: "Oh," he chuckled, "he'll
sell, all right! Maybe he's inside. You gents stick out here and watch for him; I'll step inside."

And he strode through the swinging doors of the saloon.

It was a dull time of day for O'Brien, so he sat with his feet on the edge of the bar and sipped
a tall glass of beer; he looked up at the welcome click of the doors, however, and then was
instantly on his feet. The good red went out of his face and the freckles over his nose stood
out like ink marks.

"There's a black hoss outside," said Jerry, "that I'm going to buy. Where's the owner?"

"Have a drink," said the bartender, and he forced an amiable smile.

"I got business on my hands, not drinking," said Jerry Strann.

"Lost your chestnut?" queried O'Brien in concern.

"The chestnut was all right until I seen the black. And now he ain't a hoss at all. Where's
the gent I want?"

The bartender had fenced for time as long as possible.

"Over there," he said, and pointed.

It was a slender fellow sitting at a table in a corner of the long room, his sombrero pushed
back on his head. He was playing solitaire and his back was towards Jerry Strann, who now made
a brief survey, hitched his cartridge belt, and approached the stranger with a grin. The man
did not turn; he continued to lay down his cards with monotonous regularity, and while he was
doing it he said in the gentlest voice that had ever reached the ear of Jerry Strann: "Better
stay where you are, stranger. My dog don't like you."

And Jerry Strann perceived, under the shadow of the table, a blacker shadow, huge and formless
in the gloom, and two spots of incandescent green twinkling towards him. He stopped; he even
made a step back; and then he heard a stifled chuckle from the bartender.

If it had not been for that untimely mirth of O'Brien's probably nothing of what followed would
have passed into the history of the Three B's.

CHAPTER VIII

THE GIFT-HORSE

"Your dog is your own dog," remarked Jerry Strann, still to the back of the card-laying stranger,
"but this ain't your back-yard. Keep your eye on him, or I'll fix him so he won't need watching!"

So saying he made another step forward, and it brought a snarl from the dog; not one of those
high-whining noises, but a deep guttural that sounded like indrawn breath. The gun of Jerry
Strann leaped into his hand.

"Bart," said the gentle-voiced stranger, "lie down and don't talk." And he turned in his chair,
pulled his hat straight, and looked mildly upon the gunman. An artist would have made much
of that picture, for there was in this man, as in Strann, a singular portion of beauty. It
was not, however, free from objection, for he had not the open manliness of the larger of the
two. Indeed, a feminine grace and softness marked him; his wrists were as round as a girl's,
and his hands as slender and as delicately finished. Whether it be the white-hot sun of summer
or the hurricane snows of winter, the climate of the mountain-desert roughens the skin, and
it cuts away spare flesh, hewing out the face in angles; but with this man there were no rough
edges, but all was smoothed over and rounded with painful care; as if nature had concentrated
in that birth to show what she could do. Such fine workmanship, perhaps, would be appreciated
more by women than by men; for men like a certain weight and bulk of bone and muscle--whereas
this fellow seemed as light of body as he was of hand. He sat now watching Strann with the
utmost gravity. He had very large brown eyes of a puzzling quality; perhaps that was because
there seemed to be no thought behind them and one caught the mystery and the wistfulness of
some animals from a glance at him.

The effect of that glance on Strann was to make him grin again, and he at once banished the
frown from his forehead and put away his gun; the big dog had slunk deeper into the shadow
and closer to his master.

"I'm Strann. Maybe you've heard of me."

"My name is Barry," said the other. "I'm sorry that I haven't heard of you before."

And the sound of his voice made Jerry Strann grin again; it was such a low, soft voice with
the velvet of a young girl's tone in it; moreover, the brown eyes seemed to apologise for the
ignorance concerning Strann's name.

"You got a hoss out in front."

A nod of agreement.

"What's your price?"

"None."

"No price? Look here," argued Strann, "everything's got a price, and I got to have that hoss,
understand? Got to! I ain't bargaining. I won't try to beat you down. You just set a figger
and I'll cover it. I guess that's square!"

"He ain't a gentle hoss," said Barry. "Maybe you wouldn't like him."

"Oh, that's all right about being gentle," chuckled Strann. Then he checked his mirth and stared
piercingly at the other to make out if there were a secret mockery. It could not, however,
be possible. The eyes were as gravely apologetic as ever. He continued: "I seen the hell-fire
in him. That's what stopped me like a bullet. I like 'em that way. Much rather have 'em with
a fight. Well, let's have your price. Hey, O'Brien, trot out your red-eye; I'm going to do
some business here!"

O'Brien came hastily, with drinks, and while they waited Strann queried politely: "Belong around
these parts?"

"No," answered the other softly.

"No? Where you come from?"

"Over there," said Barry, and waved a graceful hand towards half the points of the compass.

"H-m-m!" muttered Strann, and once more he bent a keen gaze upon his companion. The drinks
were now placed before them. "Here," he concluded, "is to the black devil outside!" And he
swallowed the liquor at a gulp, but as he replaced the empty glass on the table he observed,
with breathless amazement, that the whiskey glass of the stranger was still full; he had drunk
his chaser!

"Now, by God!" said Strann in a ringing voice, and struck a heavy hand upon the top of the
table. He regained his control, however, instantly. "Now about that price!"

"I don't know what horses are worth," replied Barry.

"To start, then--five hundred bucks in cold cash--gold!--for your--what's his name?"

"Satan."

"Eh?"

"Satan."

"H-m-m!" murmured Strann again. "Five hundred for Satan, then. How about it?"

"If you can ride him," began the stranger.

"Oh, hell," smiled Strann with a large and careless gesture, "I'll ride him, all right."

"Then I would let you take him for nothing," concluded Barry.

"You'd--what?" said Strann. Then he rose slowly from his chair and shouted; instantly the swinging
doors broke open and a throng of faces appeared at the gap. "Boys, this gent here is going
to give me the black--ha, ha, ha!--if I can ride him!" He turned back on Barry. "They've heard
it," he concluded, "and this bargain is going to stick just this way. If your hoss can throw
me the deal's off. Eh?"

"Oh, yes," nodded the brown-eyed man.

"What's the idea?" asked one of Jerry's followers as the latter stepped through the doors of
the saloon onto the street.

"I dunno," said Jerry. "That gent looks kind of simple; but it ain't my fault if he made a
rotten bargain. Here, you!"

And he seized the bridle-reins of the black stallion. Speed, lightning speed, was what saved
him, for the instant his fingers touched the leather Satan twisted his head and snapped like
an angry dog. The teeth clicked beside Strann's shoulder as he leaped back. He laughed savagely.

"That'll be took out of him," he announced, "and damned quick!"

Here the voice of Barry was heard, saying: "I'll help you mount, Mr. Strann." And he edged
his way through the little crowd until he stood at the head of the stallion.

"Look out!" warned Strann in real alarm, "or he'll take your head off!"

But Barry was already beside his horse, and, with his back towards those vicious teeth, he
drew the reins over its head. As for the stallion, it pricked one ear forward and then the
other, and muzzled the man's shoulder confidingly. There was a liberal chorus of astonished
oaths from the gathering.

"I'll hold his head while you get on," suggested Barry, turning his mild eyes upon Strann again.

"Well," muttered the big man, "may I be eternally damned!" He added: "All right. Hold his head,
and I'll ride him without pulling leather. Is that square?"

Barry nodded absently. His slender fingers were patting the velvet nose of the stallion and
he was talking to it in an affectionate undertone--meaningless words, perhaps, such as a mother
uses to soothe a child. When Strann set his foot in the stirrup and gathered up the reins the
black horse cringed and shuddered; it was not a pleasant thing to see; it was like a dog crouching
under the suspended whip. It was worse than that; it was almost the horror of a man who shivers
at the touch of an unclean animal. There was not a sound from the crowd; and every grin was
wiped out. Jerry Strann swung into the saddle lightly.

There he sat, testing the stirrups. They were too short by inches but he refused to have them
lengthened. He poised his quirt and tugged his hat lower over his eyes.

"Turn him loose!" he shouted. "Hei!"

And his shrill yell went down the street and the echoes sent it barking back from wall to wall;
Barry stepped back from the head of the black. But for an instant the horse did not stir. He
was trembling violently, but his blazing eyes were fixed upon the face of his owner. Barry
raised his hand.

And then it happened. It was like the release of a coiled watch-spring; the black whirled as
a top spins and Strann sagged far to the left; before he could recover the stallion was away
in a flash, like a racer leaving the barrier and reaching full speed in almost a stride. Not
far--hardly the breadth of the street--before he pitched up in a long leap as if to clear a
barrier, landed stiff-legged with a sickening jar, whirled again like a spinning top, and darted
straight back. And Jerry Strann pulled leather--with might and main--but the short stirrups
were against him, and above all the suddenness of the start had taken him off guard for all
his readiness. When the stallion dropped stiff-legged Jerry was thrown forward and an unlucky
left foot jarred loose from the stirrup; and when the horse whirled Strann was flung from the
saddle. It was a clean fall. He twisted over in the air as he fell and landed in deep dust.
The black stallion had reached his master and now he turned, in that same catlike manner, and
watched with pricking ears as Strann dragged himself up from the dust.

There was no shout of laughter--no cheer for that fall, and without a smile they watched Strann
returning. Big O'Brien had seen from his open door and now he laid a hand on the shoulder of
one of the men and whispered at his ear: "There's going to be trouble; bad trouble, Billy.
Go for Fatty Matthews--he's a deputy marshal now--and get him here as quick as you can. Run!"

The other spared time for a last glance at Strann and then hurried down the street.

Now, a man who can lose and smile is generally considered the most graceful of failures, but
the smile of Jerry Strann as he walked slowly back worried his followers.

"We all hit dust sometime," he philosophized. "But one try don't prove nothin'. I ain't near
through with that hoss!"

Barry turned to Strann. If there had been mockery in his eyes or a smile on his lips as he
faced Jerry there would have been a gun play on the spot; but, instead, the brown eyes were
as dumbly apologetic as ever.

"We didn't talk about two tries," he observed.

"We talk about it now," said Strann.

There was one man in the crowd a little too old to be dangerous and therefore there was one
man who was in a position to speak openly to Strann. It was big O'Brien.

"Jerry, you named your game and made your play and lost. I guess you ain't going to turn up
a hard loser. Nobody plays twice for the same pot."

The hazel eye of Strann was grey with anguish of the spirit as he looked from O'Brien to the
crowd and from the crowd to Satan, and from Satan to his meek-eyed owner. Nowhere was there
a defiant eye or a glint of scorn on which he could wreak his wrath. He stood poised in his
anger for the space of a breath; then, in the sharp struggle, his better nature conquered.

"Come on in, all of you," he called. "We'll liquor, and forget this."

CHAPTER IX

BATTLE LIGHT

O'Brien pressed close to Barry.

"Partner," he said rapidly, "you're clear now--you're clear of more hell that you ever dream.
Now climb that hoss of yours and feed him leather till you get clear of Brownsville--and if
I was you I'd never come within a day's ride of the Three B's again."

The mild, brown eyes widened.

"I don't like crowds," murmured Barry.

"You're wise, kid," grinned the bartender--"a hell of a lot wiser than you know right now.
On your way!"

And he turned to follow the crowd into the saloon. But Jerry Strann stood at the swinging doors,
watching, and he saw Barry linger behind.

"Are you coming?" he called.

"I got an engagement," answered the meek voice.

"You got another engagement here," mocked Strann. "Understand?"

The other hesitated for an instant, and then sighed deeply. "I suppose I'll stay," he murmured,
and walked into the bar. Jerry Strann was smiling in the way that showed his teeth. As Barry
passed he said softly: "I see we ain't going to have no trouble, you and me!" and he moved
to clap his strong hand on the shoulder of the smaller man. Oddly enough, the hand missed,
for Barry swerved from beneath it as a wolf swerves from the shadow of a falling branch. No
perceptible effort--no sudden start of tensed muscles, but a movement so smooth that it was
almost unnoticeable. But the hand of Strann fell through thin air.

"You're quick," he said. "If you was as quick with your hands as you are with your feet----"

Barry paused and the melancholy brown eyes dwelt on the face of Strann.

"Oh, hell!" snorted the other, and turned on his heel to the bar. "Drink up!" he commanded.

A shout and a snarl from the further end of the room.

"A wolf, by God!" yelled one of the men.

The owner of the animal made his way with unobtrusive swiftness the length of the room and
stood between the dog and a man who fingered the butt of his gun nervously.

"He won't hurt you none," murmured that softly assuring voice.

"The hell he won't!" responded the other. "He took a pass at my leg just now and dam' near
took it off. Got teeth like the blades of a pocket-knife!"

"You're on a cold trail, Sam," broke in one of the others. "That ain't any wolf. Look at him now!"

The big, shaggy animal had slunk to the feet of his master and with head abased stared furtively
up into Barry's face. A gesture served as sufficient command, and he slipped shadow-like into
the corner and crouched with his head on his paws and the incandescent green of his eyes glimmering;
Barry sat down in a chair nearby.

O'Brien was happily spinning bottles and glasses the length of the bar; there was the chiming
of glass and the rumble of contented voices.

"Red-eye all 'round," said the loud voice of Jerry Strann, "but there's one out. Who's out?
Oh, it's him. Hey O'Brien, lemonade for the lady."

It brought a laugh, a deep, good-natured laugh, and then a chorus of mockery; but Barry stepped
unconfused to the bar, accepted the glass of lemonade, and when the others downed their fire-water,
he sipped his drink thoughtfully. Outside, the wind had risen, and it shook the hotel and carried
a score of faint voices as it whirred around corners and through cracks. Perhaps it was one
of those voices which made the big dog lift its head from its paws and whine softly! surely
it was something he heard which caused Barry to straighten at the bar and cant his head slightly
to one side--but, as certainly, no one else in the barroom heard it. Barry set down his glass.

"Mr. Strann?" he called.

And the gentle voice carried faintly down through the uproar of the bar.

"Sister wants to speak to you," suggested O'Brien to Strann.

"Well?" roared the latter, "what d'you want?"

The others were silent to listen; and they smiled in anticipation.

"If you don't mind, much," said the musical voice, "I think I'll be moving along."

There is an obscure little devil living in all of us. It makes the child break his own toys;
it makes the husband strike the helpless wife; it makes the man beat the cringing, whining
dog. The greatest of American writers has called it the Imp of the Perverse. And that devil
came in Jerry Strann and made his heart small and cold. If he had been by nature the bully
and the ruffian there would have been no point in all that followed, but the heart of Jerry
Strann was ordinarily as warm as the yellow sunshine itself; and it was a common saying in
the Three B's that Jerry Strann would take from a child what he would not endure from a mountain-lion.
Women loved Jerry Strann, and children would crowd about his knees, but this day the small
demon was in him.

"You want to be moving along" mimicked the devil in Jerry Strann. "Well, you wait a while.
I ain't through with you yet. Maybe--" he paused and searched his mind. "You've given me a
fall, and maybe you can give the rest of us--a laugh!"

The chuckle of appreciation went up the bar and down it again.

"I want to ask you," went on the devil in Jerry Strann, "where you got your hoss?"

"He was running wild," came the gentle answer. "So I took a walk, one day, and brought him in."

A pause.

"Maybe," grinned the big man, "you creased him?"

For it is one of the most difficult things in the world to capture a wild horse, and some hunters,
in their desperation at seeing the wonderful animals escape, have tried to "crease" them. That
is, they strive to shoot so that the bullet will barely graze the top of the animal's vertebrae,
just behind the ears, stunning the horse and making it helpless for the capture. But necessarily
such shots are made from a distance, and little short of a miracle is needed to make the bullet
strike true--for a fraction of an inch too low means death. So another laugh of appreciation
ran around the barroom at the mention of creasing.

"No," answered Barry, "I went out with a halter and after a while Satan got used to me and
followed me home."

They waited only long enough to draw deep breath; then came a long yell of delight. But the
obscure devil was growing stronger and stronger in Strann. He beat on the bar until he got
silence. Then he leaned over to meet the eyes of Barry.

"That," he remarked through his teeth, "is a damned--lie!"

There is only one way of answering that word in the mountain-desert, and Barry did not take
it. The melancholy brown eyes widened; he sighed, and raising his glass of lemonade sipped
it slowly. Came a sick silence in the barroom. Men turned their eyes towards each other and
then flashed them away again. It is not good that one who has the eyes and the tongue of a
man should take water from another--even from a Jerry Strann. And even Jerry Strann withdrew
his eyes slowly from his prey, and shuddered; the sight of the most grisly death is not so
horrible as cowardice.

And the devil which was still strong in Strann made him look about for a new target; Barry
was removed from all danger by an incredible barrier. He found that new target at once, for
his glance reached to the corner of the room and found there the greenish, glimmering eyes
of the dog. He smote upon the bar.

"Is this a damned kennel?" he shouted. "Do I got to drink in a barnyard? What's the dog doin'
here?"

And he caught up the heavy little whiskey glass and hurled it at the crouching dog. It thudded
heavily, but it brought no yelp of pain; instead, a black thunderbolt leaped from the corner
and lunged down the room. It was the silence of the attack that made it terrible, and Strann
cursed and pulled his gun. He could never have used it. He was a whole half second too late,
but before the dog sprang a voice cut in: "Bart!"

It checked the animal in its very leap; it landed on the floor and slid on stiffly extended
legs to the feet of Strann.

"Bart!" rang the voice again.

And the beast, flattening to the floor, crawled backwards, inch by inch; it was slavering,
and there was a ravening madness in its eyes.

"Look at it!" cried Strann. "By God, it's mad!"

And he raised his gun to draw the bead.

"Wait!" called the same voice which had checked the spring of the dog. Surely it could not
have come from the lips of Barry. It held a resonance of chiming metal; it was not loud, but
it carried like a brazen bell. "Don't do it, Strann!"

And it came to every man in the barroom that it was unhealthy to stand between the two men
at that instant; a sudden path opened from Barry to Strann.

"Bart!" came the command again. "Heel!"

The dog obeyed with a slinking swiftness; Jerry Strann put up his gun and smiled.

"I don't take a start on no man," he announced quite pleasantly. "I don't need to. But--you
yaller hearted houn'--get out from between. When I make my draw I'm goin' to kill that damn wolf."

Now, the fighting face of Jerry Strann was well known in the Three B's, and it was something
for men to remember until they died in a peaceful bed. Yet there was not a glance, from the
bystanders, for Strann. They stood back against the wall, flattening themselves, and they stared,
fascinated, at the slender stranger. Not that his face had grown ugly by a sudden metamorphosis.
It was more beautiful than ever, for the man was smiling. It was his eyes which held them.
Behind the brown a light was growing, a yellow and unearthly glimmer which one felt might be
seen on the darkest night.

There was none of the coward in Jerry Strann. He looked full into that yellow, glimmering,
changing light--he looked steadily--and a strange feeling swept over him. No, it was not fear.
Long experience had taught him that there was not another man in the Three B's, with the exception
of his own terrible brother, who could get a gun out of the leather faster than he, but now
it seemed to Jerry Strann that he was facing something more than mortal speed and human strength
and surety. He could not tell in what the feeling was based. But it was a giant, dim foreboding
holding dominion over other men's lives, and it sent a train of chilly-weakness through his blood.

"It's a habit of mine," said Jerry Strann, "to kill mad dogs when I see 'em." And he smiled again.

They stood for another long instant, facing each other. It was plain that every muscle in Strann's
body was growing tense; the very smile was frozen on his lips. When he moved, at last, it was
a convulsive jerk of his arm, and it was said, afterward, that his gun was all clear of the
leather before the calm stranger stirred. No eye followed what happened. Can the eye follow
such speed as the cracking lash of a whip?

There was only one report. The forefinger of Strann did not touch his trigger, but the gun
slipped down and dangled loosely from his hand. He made a pace forward with his smile grown
to an idiotic thing and a patch of red sprang out in the centre of his breast. Then he lurched
headlong to the floor.

CHAPTER X

"SWEET ADELINE"

Fatty Matthews came panting through the doors. He was one of those men who have a leisurely
build and a purely American desire for action; so that he was always hurrying and always puffing.
If he mounted a horse, sweat started out from every pore; if he swallowed a glass of red-eye
he breathed hard thereafter. Yet he was capable of great and sustained exertions, as many and
many a man in the Three B's could testify. He was ashamed of his fat. Imagine the soul of a
Bald Eagle in the body of a Poland China sow and you begin to have some idea of Fatty Matthews.
Fat filled his boots as with water and he made a "squnching" sound when he walked; fat rolled
along his jowls; fat made his very forehead flabby; fat almost buried his eyes. But nothing
could conceal the hawk-line of his nose or the gleam of those half-buried eyes. His hair was
short-cropped, grey, and stood on end like bristles, and he was in the habit of using his panting
breath in humming--for that concealed the puffing. So Fatty Matthews came through the doors
and his little, concealed eyes darted from face to face. Then he kneeled beside Strann.

He was humming as he opened Jerry's shirt; he was humming as he pulled from his bag--for Fatty
was almost as much doctor as he was marshal, cowpuncher, miner, and gambler--a roll of cotton
and another roll of bandages. The crowd grouped around him, fascinated, and at his directions
some of them brought water and others raised and turned the body while the marshal made the
bandages; Jerry Strann was unconscious. Fatty Matthews began to intersperse talk in his humming.

"You was plugged from in front--my beauty--was you?" grunted Fatty, and then running the roll
of bandage around the wounded man's chest he hummed a bar of:

   "Sweet Adeline, my Adeline,
   At night, dear heart, for you I pine."

"Was Jerry lookin' the other way when he was spotted?" asked Fatty of the bystanders. "O'Brien,
you seen it?"

O'Brien cleared his throat.

"I didn't see nothin'," he said mildly, and began to mop his bar, which was already polished
beyond belief.

"Well," muttered Fatty Matthews, "all these birds get it. And Jerry was some overdue. Lew,
you seen it?"

"Yep."

"Some drunken bum do it?"

Lew leaned to the ear of the kneeling marshal and whispered briefly. Fatty opened his eyes
and cursed until his panting forced him to break off and hum.

"Beat him to the draw?" he gasped at length.

"Jerry's gun was clean out before the stranger made a move," asserted Lew.

"It ain't possible," murmured the deputy, and hummed softly:

   "In all my dreams, your fair face beams."

He added sharply, as he finished the bandaging: "Where'd he head for?"

"No place," answered Lew. "He just now went out the door."

The deputy swore again, but he added, enlightened; "Going to plead self-defense, eh?"

Big O'Brien leaned over the bar.

"Listen, Fatty," he said earnestly, "There ain't no doubt of it. Jerry had his war-paint on.
He tried to kill this feller Barry's wolf."

"Wolf?" cut in the deputy marshal.

"Dog, I guess," qualified the bartender. "I dunno. Anyway, Jerry made all the leads; this Barry
simply done the finishing. I say, don't put this Barry under arrest. You want to keep him here
for Mac Strann."

"That's my business," growled Fatty. "Hey, half a dozen of you gents. Hook on to Jerry and
take him up to a room. I'll be with you in a minute."

And while his directions were being obeyed he trotted heavily up the length of the barroom
and out the swinging doors. Outside, he found only one man, and in the act of mounting a black
horse; the deputy marshal made straight for that man until a huge black dog appeared from nowhere
blocking his path. It was a silent dog, but its teeth and eyes said enough to stop Fatty in
full career.

"Are you Barry?" he asked.

"That's me. Come here, Bart."

The big dog backed to the other side of the horse without shifting his eyes from the marshal.
The latter gingerly approached the rider, who sat perfectly at ease in the saddle; most apparently
he was in no haste to leave.

"Barry," said the deputy, "don't make no play when I tell you who I am; I don't mean you no
harm, but my name's Matthews, and--" he drew back the flap of his vest enough to show the glitter
of his badge of office. All the time his little beady eyes watched Barry with bird-like intentness.
The rider made not a move. And now Matthews noted more in detail the feminine slenderness of
the man and the large, placid eyes. He stepped closer and dropped a confidential hand on the
pommel of the saddle.

"Son," he muttered, "I hear you made a clean play inside. Now, I know Strann and his way. He
was in wrong. There ain't a doubt of it, and if I held you, you'd get clear on self-defense.
So I ain't going to lay a hand on you. You're free: but one thing more. You cut off there--see?--and
bear away north from the Three B's. You got a hoss that is, and believe me, you'll need him
before you're through." He lowered his voice and his eyes bulged with the terror of his tidings:
"Feed him the leather; ride to beat hell; never stop while your hoss can raise a trot; and
then slide off your hoss and get another. Son, in three days Mac Strann'll be on your trail!"

He stepped back and waved his arms.

"Now, vamos!"

The black stallion flicked back its ears and winced from the outflung hands, but the rider
remained imperturbed.

"I never heard of Mac Strann," said Barry.

"You never heard of Mac Strann?" echoed the other.

"But I'd like to meet him," said Barry.

The deputy marshal blinked his eyes rapidly, as though he needed to clear his vision.

"Son," he said hoarsely. "I c'n see you're game. But don't make a fall play. If Mac Strann
gets you, he'll California you like a yearling. You won't have no chance. You've done for Jerry,
there ain't a doubt of that, but Jerry to Mac is like a tame cat to a mountain-lion. Lad, I
c'n see you're a stranger to these parts, but ask me your questions and I'll tell you the best
way to go."

Barry slipped from the saddle.

He said: "I'd like to know the best place to put up my hoss."

The deputy marshal was speechless.

"But I s'pose," went on Barry, "I can stable him over there behind the hotel."

Matthews pushed off his sombrero and rubbed his short fingers through his hair. Anger and amazement
still choked him, but he controlled himself by a praiseworthy effort.

"Barry," he said, "I don't make you out. Maybe you figure to wait till Mac Strann gets to town
before you leave; maybe you think your hoss can outrun anything on four feet. And maybe it
can. But listen to me: Mac Strann ain't fast on a trail, but the point about him is that he
never leaves it! You can go through rain and over rocks, but you can't never shake Mac Strann--not
once he gets the wind of you."

"Thanks," returned the gentle-voiced stranger. "I guess maybe he'll be worth meeting."

And so saying he turned on his heel and walked calmly towards the big stables behind the hotel
and at his heels followed the black dog and the black horse. As for deputy marshal Matthews,
he moistened his lips to whistle, but when he pursed them, not a sound came. He turned at length
into the barroom and as he walked his eye was vacant. He was humming brokenly:

   "Sweet Adeline, my Adeline,
   At night, dear heart, for you I pine."

Inside, he took firm hold upon the bar with both pudgy hands.

"O'Brien," he said, "red-eye."

He pushed away the small glass which the bartender spun towards him and seized in its place
a mighty water-tumbler.

"O'Brien," he explained, "I need strength, not encouragement." And filling the glass nearly
to the brim he downed the huge potion at a single draught.

CHAPTER XI

THE BUZZARD

Most animals have their human counterparts, and in that room where Jerry Strann had fallen
a whimsical observer might have termed Jerry, with his tawny head, the lion, and O'Brien behind
the bar, a shaggy bear, and the deputy marshal a wolverine, fat but dangerous, and here stood
a man as ugly and hardened as a desert cayuse, and there was Dan Barry, sleek and supple as
a panther; but among the rest this whimsical observer must have noticed a fellow of prodigious
height and negligible breadth, a structure of sinews and bones that promised to rattle in the
wind, a long, narrow head, a nose like a beak, tiny eyes set close together and shining like
polished buttons, and a vast Adam's apple that rolled up and down the scraggy throat. He might
have done for the spirit of Famine in an old play; but every dweller of the mountain-desert
would have found an apter expression by calling him the buzzard of the scene. Through his prodigious
ugliness he was known far and wide as "Haw-Haw" Langley; for on occasion Langley laughed, and
his laughter was an indescribable sound that lay somewhere between the braying of a mule and
the cawing of a crow. But Haw-Haw Langley was usually silent, and he would sit for hours without
words, twisting his head and making little pecking motions as his eyes fastened on face after
face. All the bitterness of the mountain-desert was in Haw-Haw Langley; if his body looked
like a buzzard, his soul was the soul of the vulture itself, and therefore he had followed
the courses of Jerry Strann up and down the range. He stuffed his gorge with the fragments
of his leader's food; he fed his soul with the dangers which Jerry Strann met and conquered.

In the barroom Haw-Haw Langley had stood turning his sharp little eyes from Jerry Strann to
Dan Barry, and from Dan Barry back to Strann; and when the shot was fired something like a
grin twisted his thin lips; and when the spot of red glowed on the breast of the staggering
man, the eyes of Haw-Haw blazed as if with the reflection of a devouring fire. Afterwards he
lingered for a few minutes making no effort to aid the fallen man, but when he had satisfied
himself with the extent of the injury, and when he had noted the froth of bloody bubbles which
stained the lips of Strann, Haw-Haw Langley turned and stalked from the room. His eyes were
points of light and his soul was crammed to repletion with ill-tidings.

At the hitching rack he stepped into the saddle of a diminutive horse, whirled it into the
street with a staggering jerk of the reins, and buried the spurs deep in the cow-pony's flanks.
The poor brute snorted and flirted its heels in the air, but Langley wrapped his long legs
around the barrel of his mount and goaded it again.

His smile, which began with the crack of Barry's gun in O'Brien's place, did not die out until
he was many a mile away, headed far up through the mountains; but as he put peak after peak
behind him and as the white light of the day diminished and puffs of blue shadow drowned the
valleys, the grin disappeared from Haw-Haw's face. He became keenly intent on his course until,
having reached the very summit of a tall hill, he came to a halt and peered down before him.

It was nearly dusk by this time and the eyes of an ordinary man could not distinguish a tree
from a rock at any great distance; but it seemed that Haw-Haw was gifted with eyes extraordinary--the
buzzard at the top of its sky-towering circles does not see the brown carcass far below with
more certainty than Haw-Haw sensed his direction. He waited only a few seconds before he rolled
the rowel once more along the scored flanks of his mustang and then plunged down the slope
at a reckless gallop.

His destination was a hut, or rather a lean-to, that pressed against the side of the mountain,
a crazy structure with a single length of stove pipe leaning awry from the roof. And at the
door of this house Haw-Haw Langley drew rein and stepped to the ground. The interior of the
hut was dark, but Haw-Haw stole with the caution of a wild Indian to the entrance and reconnoitered
the interior, probing every shadowy corner with his glittering eyes. For several long moments
he continued this examination, and even when he was satisfied that there was no one in the
place he did not enter, but moved back several paces from the door and swept the sides of the
mountains with an uneasy eye. He made out, a short distance from the door, a picketed horse
which now reared up its head from the miserable scattering of grass on which it fed and stared
at the stranger. The animal must have bulked at least twice as large as the mount which had
brought Langley to the mountain-side. And it was muscled even out of proportion to its bulk.
The head was so tremendously broad that it gave an almost square appearance, the neck, short
and thick, the forelegs disproportionately small but very sturdy; and the whole animal was
built on a slope towards the hind quarters which seemed to equal in massiveness all the rest
of the body. One would have said that the horse was a freak meant by nature for the climbing
of hills. And to glance at it no man could suppose that those ponderous limbs might be moved
to a gallop. However, Haw-Haw Langley well knew the powers of the ugly beast, and he even made
a detour and walked about the horse to view it more closely.

Now he again surveyed the darkening landscape and then turned once more to the house. This
time he entered with the boldness of a possessor approaching his hearth. He lighted a match
and with this ignited a lantern hanging from the wall to the right of the door. The furnishings
of the dwelling were primitive beyond compare. There was no sign of a chair; a huddle of blankets
on the bare boards of the floor made the bed; a saddle hung by one stirrup on one side and
on the other side leaned the skins of bob-cats, lynx, and coyotes on their stretching and drying
boards. Haw-Haw took down the lantern and examined the pelts. The animals had been skinned
with the utmost dexterity. As far as he could see the hides had not been marred in a single
place by slips of the knife, nor were there any blood stains to attest hurried work, or careless
shooting in the first place. The inner surfaces shone with the pure white of old parchment
But Haw-Haw gave his chief attention to the legs and the heads of the skins, for these were
the places where carelessness or stupidity with the knife were sure to show; but the work was
perfect in every respect. Until even the critical Haw-Haw Langley was forced to step back and
shake his head in admiration. He continued his survey of the room.

In one corner stood a rifle and a shot-gun; in another was a pile of provisions--bacon, flour,
salt, meal, and little else. Spices and condiments were apparently unknown to this hermit;
nor was there even the inevitable coffee, nor any of the molasses or other sweets which the
tongue of the desert-mountainer cannot resist. Flour, meat, and water, it seemed, made up the
entire fare of the trapper. For cookery there was an unboarded space in the very centre of
the floor with a number of rocks grouped around in the hole and blackened with soot. The smoke
must rise, therefore, and escape through the small hole in the centre of the roof. The length
of stove-pipe which showed on the roof must have been simply the inhabitant's idea of giving
the last delicate touch of civilisation; it was like a tassel to the cap of the Turk.

As Haw-Haw's observations reached this point his sharp ear caught the faint whinny of the big
horse outside. He started like one caught in a guilty act, and sprang to the lantern. However,
with his hands upon it he thought better of it, and he placed the light against the wall; then
he turned to the entrance and looked anxiously up the hillside.

What he saw was a form grotesque beyond belief. It seemed to be some gigantic wild beast--mountain
lion or great bear, though of a size beyond credence--which slowly sprawled down the slope
walking erect upon its hind feet with its forelegs stretched out horizontal, as if it were
warning all who might behold it away. Haw-Haw grew pale and involuntarily reached for his gun
as he first beheld this apparition, but instantly he saw the truth. It was a man who carried
a burden down the mountain-side. The burden was the carcass of a bear; the man had drawn the
forelegs over his shoulders--his jutting elbows making what had seemed the outstretched arms--and
above the head of the burden-bearer rose the great head of the bear. As the man came closer
the animal's head flopped to one side and a red tongue lolled from its mouth. Haw-Haw Langley
moved back step by step through the cabin until his shoulders struck the opposite wall, and
at the same time Mac Strann entered the room. He had no ear for his visitor's hail, but cast
his burden to the floor. It dropped with a shock that shook the house from the rattling stove-pipe
to the crackling boards. For a moment Mac Strann regarded his prey. Then he stooped and drew
open the great jaws. The mouth within was not so red as the bloody hands of Mac Strann; and
the big, white fangs, for some reason, did not seem terrible in comparison with the hunter.
Having completed his survey he turned slowly upon Haw-Haw Langley and lowered his eyebrows
to stare.

So doing, the light for the first time struck full upon his face. Haw-Haw Langley bit his thin
lips and his eyes widened almost to the normal.

For the ugliness of Mac Strann was that most terrible species of ugliness--not disfigured features
but a discord which pervaded the man and came from within him--like a sound. Feature by feature
his face was not ugly. The mouth was very large, to be sure, and the jaw too heavily square,
and the nose needed somewhat greater length and less width for real comeliness. The eyes were
truly fine, being very large and black, though when Mac Strann lowered his bush of brows his
eyes were practically reduced to gleams of light in the consequent shadow. There was a sharp
angle in his forehead, the lines of it meeting in the centre and shelving up and down. One
felt, unpleasantly, that there were heavy muscles overlaying that forehead. One felt that to
the touch it would be a pad of flesh, and it gave to Mac Strann, more than any other feature,
a peculiar impression of resistless physical power.

In the catalogue of his features, indeed, there was nothing severely objectionable; but out
of it came a feeling of too much strength! A glance at his body reinsured the first thought.
It was not normal. His shirt bulged tightly at the shoulders with muscles. He was not tall--inches
shorter than his brother Jerry, for instance--but the bulk of his body was incredible. His
torso was a veritable barrel that bulged out both in the chest and the back. And even the tremendous
thighs of Mac Strann were perceptibly bowed out by the weight which they had to carry. And
there was about his management of his arms a peculiar awkwardness which only the very strongest
of men exhibit--as if they were burdened by the weight of their mere dangling hands.

This giant, having placed his eyes in shadow, peered for a long moment at Haw-Haw Langley,
but very soon his glance began to waver. It flashed towards the wall--it came back and rested
upon Langley again. He was like a dog, restless under a steady stare. And as Haw-Haw Langley
noted this a glitter of joy came in his beady eyes.

"You're Jerry's man," said Mac Strann at length.

There was about his voice the same fleshy quality that was in his face; it came literally from
his stomach, and it made a peculiar rustling sound such as comes after one has eaten sticky
sweet things. People could listen to the voice of Mac Strann and forget that he was speaking
words. The articulation ran together in a sort of glutinous mass.

"I'm a friend of Jerry's," said the other. "I'm Langley."

The big man stretched out his hand. 

Schöneberg-Berlin, New Year 1910

A. Bebel.

From the children and youth.

Will you judge a man more closely, it is necessary to the story of his childhood and teenage years . Know
Man is born with a number of installations and character to the world, that Development of the surrounding
states depend very much. Systems and characteristics by education and example, the area promoted
or inhibited, yes, to some Levels are suppressed. It then depends on the conditions in later life, and
even more often by the energy of that personality, whether and how bad education or suppressed
properties have to give approval. The costs often an uphill battle with itself, because the impressions
that man receives in his childhood and youth, most influence his thoughts and feelings. Whatever
the circumstances in later life make the individual, the impressions of his youth work both
good and bad sense to him, and they often determine his actions.

I must at least admit that the impressions and experiences of children
and teens I often caught in a way assumed that I had trouble rid myself
of them, and I am completely got rid of it before.

Man is born somewhere.

I was this good fortune on 22 February 1840, on which day I was in the blockhouse to Cologne-Deutz
saw the light of day. My father was the Sergeant Johann Gottlob Bebel in the 3rd Company of the
25th Infantry Regiment, my mother Johanna Wilhelmine born Simon.

My birth certificate has not Deutz - that was then still an independent village - but Cologne as
a birthplace on, apparently because the garrison Deutz to that of the fortress and Cologne same
parish belonged.

The "Light of the World," in which I looked after my birth, was the dim light of a tin Oil lamp that barely
illuminated the gray walls of a large casemates office, which also
Bedroom and living room, lounge, kitchen and utility room was.

After giving my mother It was evening at nine clock when I stepped into the world, provides
"a historic moment," than just outside the casemate the bugler blew taps, known since "immemorial
Times, "the sign that the teams have to go to bed.

Prophetic natures might conclude from this fact that it already my later oppositional position
against the existing political order was announced.

For Strictly speaking, it would be against the military order that I, as a Prussian officer child
At the same moment the walls of a royal office casemates described - and I should have already
had when I was born a final vote - in which the command to rest was
adopted.

But the so concluded mistaken. It was later still needed some time before I freed from the bonds
of prejudice, in which life in the casemates and the later Youth impressions had beaten me.

It
is not superfluous, as necessary for the assessment of myself, here are some of to tell my father
and my mother. My father was born in Ostrowo in the province of Posen, as the son of master
cooper Johann Bebel. I do have to accept that the Bebel from southwest Germany (Württemberg)
to the east, around the time of the Reformation, immigrated. I could see that around 1625
already a Bebel in Kreuzburg (Silesia) lived. But many are available today in southwestern
Germany. Also comes the Name Bebel since the Reformation, through support of the same before
in public positions. I recall the author of "Facetiae," the humanist Heinrich Bebel, the professor
in Tübingen and in 1518 had died. Furthermore, there was a book printer Johann Bebel in Basel,
the published in 1518, the Utopia of Thomas More. A professor Balthasar Bebel lived around 1669 iE in Strasbourg
and a Dr. med Friedrich Wilhelm Bebel to 1792 in Nagold in Württemberg. The name is also Bebel
as a spoof Böbel in southern Germany found. That my father was from the east ended up in the
West, had its basis in the fact that he and his twin brother August in the year 1828 poses sches
in an infantry regiment, I believe, in the 19th, entered. Then in 1830 the Polish insurrection
broke out, it was the Prussian government appropriate to remove the
Posen regiments from the provinces.

The regiment in which my Father was served as part of the Prussian garrison after the Federal
then Federal fortress Mainz moved. This fact caused that met my father and my mother know.

My mother came from a long-established, not without means lower middle class family of former
free imperial city of Wetzlar. The father was a baker and farmer. The family was large, and so
my mother, the example of the daughters of other families came to the following Wetzlar, the
Walk to Frankfurt to them as a maid woselbst opinions. From Frankfurt they came to the neighboring
Mainz and made here the acquaintance of my father. Then, when later, the question infantry regiment
was transferred back to the province of Posen, joined my father in regard to his bride, perhaps
because he better in the Rhineland liked than in his homeland from the same and stepped into the garrisoned
in Köln-Deutz 25.

Infantry regiment. His twin brother, August, my godfather, followed his example insofar as this
in the then garrisoned in Mainz 40th Infantry Regiment (8th Rhenish Füsilierregiment) transgressed.

In
a Prussian military family of that time lived in squalor. The salary was more than just how
for at that time ever in the military and official world Prussia, Mr. Short was cook, and pretty
much every man for God, King and Country had to put the Schmachtriemen and starve. My mother
was permitted a kind of Canteen to be allowed to lead, that is they had the right to all manner
of small supplies of to sell the teams in the casemates, what happened in the only room that we hold
had. So I see it in the spirit of this day before me, as it fed in the evening with rapeseed oil
Lamp to the soldiers the stone bowls filled with steaming boiled
potatoes, à Portion 6 Pfennig Prussian.

For us children - I was born in April 1841 the first brother and in the summer of 1842, the second
been - was life in the casemates a life of bliss. We are driven into the casemate rooms around,
petted or picked on by officers and men. However, were the Bars empty, because the men were
marched out to exercise, so I went to a the same and get the guitar of the officer winter man,
who was also my godfather, from the wall, on which I operate then so long musical exercises until
no more strings all was. To this unbridled musical exercises and their evil consequences of a corresponding
deflection to give, he cut me out of a board is a guitar-like instrument which he strung with gut
strings related. I now sat with him in the company of my brother for hours on the doorstep
to a farm in the Deutz main street and tortured the strings, which the two daughters one compared with
residents of dragoons captain so "delighted" that they are more often for my musical Services
with cakes or sweets regaled. Of course suffered from this musical not the military exercises. The incentive
to do so was in the neighborhood, he was literally in the air. Once I was wearing pants so the first
and the first rock, which of course Both had been fashioned from an old military jacket of the father,
I introduced myself, equipped with the necessary weapons, next to or behind on the open square in
front of the casemate practicing Teams and imitated by their movements. As my mother later told often
humorous, I should especially have the right and left to get the pay band masterfully done,
a Exercise that caused the team a lot of sweat and sometimes when I give the said to have been
the commanding officer or officer held up as patterns.

My father's eyes but gradually saw the Kommißleben differently as his son. He was indeed, My mother
often told us how, like his brother, an extremely conscientious, punctual and neat military -
a so-called model soldier - but he had at that time already his twelve or more years of military service
on his back, and he was the soldier's life Finally, as the saying goes, even to the neck. The
service was at that time probably also petty and narrow-minded as operated today. The Gamaschendienst
celebrated at that time his orgies. At independence and spirit of opposition, it has not appeared
to my father been missing for at that time was in the Rhine province of the right floor, and
he often came in a great rage and curses on the lips of parade ground in the gloomy casemates room. As in
1840 under Louis Philippe and his ministry Thiers a war between France and Prussia was threatened,
he will one day be in highest indignation came into the room, because in his opinion, a very
young officer, he came too close was, and shouted to my mother have, "Woman, if it goes off, the
first ball, which I shall firing, a Prussian Officer! "The term" Prussian officer "in the
mouth of a Prussian officer, taken aback, He explained, however. At that time, and much later by the
population of the Prussian Rhineland every officer and officials simply as "Prussian" means.
The Rhinelander felt Prussia still not. Had a young man to be a soldier, it said in short, he
must Preuss (Low German "Pruess") are. There was even a coarse term of abuse for this. I heard
in the Spring of 1869 when I was with Liebknecht in a political matter in Elberfeld, that in
the barroom of the hotel where we stayed, a guest to the other said, "What because the Prussian
officer here? "when he saw pass by on the street an officer. Elberfeld had then as now, no garrison.

The
described view was apparently also become familiar with my father. When he was in Between 1843
and 1844, after fifteen years of service as Chief Medical man-year
and had to spend the day in the military hospital, the death and misery
of his family in mind He has repeatedly asked the mother in the most
emphatic way, after his death, we Boys so do not enter the military
orphanage because so later a commitment to a nine years of service
in the Army was connected.

The thought that the mother of this but could do out of necessity, he called in his excitement
heightened by the disease again from: "Are you doing it yet, I stab 'the boy from the Company."
In his excitement overlooked he, that he then was no longer among the living.

My father beat the extent the redemption hour than him in the spring of 1843 the post of Border
supervisor was offered the service for which he had volunteered for a long time. He took to
the post, and so the family moved some sitting on foot, partly on the freight car, which the furniture
was - because it was a train at that time in that area yet - after Herzogenrad at the Belgian border.
But ours was staying here for long.

Nor was the three-month probationary period not to end, so had my father as a result of strenuous
Night service, a serious illness contracted. Muscle inflammation called my mother, I guess it
was rheumatoid arthritis, for which joined the consumption. Since the non-expiry the sample
time my father was not released from military relationship we had with the seriously ill man
the same journey in the same way to travel back to Cologne. A very difficult piece for my
mother. Once in Cologne, was the father in the military hospital managed, and we were again
a room in the casemates Deutz, this time back to the Moat also instructed. After thirteen months
of illness of father, 35 years old died, without the mother's permission to draw a pension. We had
just after the Father's death left the casemate, and the mother would have had now, after their
home town of Wetzlar, if not the twin brother of the father, August Bebel, the mother of our
assumptions. To fulfill this duty better, decided he, Autumn 1844, to marry my mother.

This my stepfather was in September 1841 due to a full disability pension of two crowns per month
of service 40th Infantry Regiment had been fired. Cause of Disability was the loss of the voice
command as a result of laryngitis, which later also degenerated into consumption. He had to
give up his position in the regiment almost serves two years as a police officer in the military
hospital in Mainz, and had then temporarily the post of district superintendent in the provincial
correctional Brauweiler adopted in Cologne.

His real intention was to connect to the mail in service. But At that time, the postal service
was still in stagnation. If a job is vacant, was usually only one previous incumbent die or
retire before such became vacant. Indicative of the nature of the postal service this time
is that when my step-father in the summer of 1844 after Ostrowo wrote to his brother, he needed
an official authority to obtain for his marriage, he located the address of the accident in
my hands Letter noted: "sender asks for early release." The letter was ordered so that time apparently
a rare and offending. The desired location at the post office as a letter carrier was my step-father
after years of waiting finally in October 1846 have been when he just lay on the bier.

We settled in the late summer of 1844 to Brauweiler. Now to my father here in the large provincial
institution certainly the worst service. He was also among other supervisors Institute of prisoners
who had been there for work Häusler, because the decay in the Institute were sentenced to prison.
The Institute formed a large complex of buildings and courtyards and enclosed gardens and land.
All this was surrounded by a high wall. Men Women and juvenile inmates were separated. To
get to the house arrest, where our apartment was, you had to step over several courts, the
heavy locked doors were separated.

The house arrest was therefore of all human Environment deposited. Every evening when the dusk
came in, flew dozens of owls in all sizes with their croaking growl and around the building and
chased us kids anxiety and a horror. The stay of these owls was the tower of the nearby church.
Even otherwise there was this holiday for us children, and probably also for my parents, not
enjoyable. The service of my father, who began the morning by 5 clock and lasted until late
evening, was associated with a very strenuous and much anger. The nature of the former prisoners
treatment was cruel. I have more than one time with that young and older men extra heavy punishment
were to undergo the horrible procedure of closing Krumm had. This Krumm closing was that the delinquent
on the floor of the cell to lay on his stomach was. Then he got laid hand and leg irons. It
was his right hand on his back across well to the left foot and left hand the back of his right
foot tied. That's not enough, he was a linen cloth knitting together like pulled the body over
the chest and arms sharply on the back. It is as live ball was tied up, the culprit for two
hours lying on his stomach Can take it. Then he was taken off the shackles, but started after
a few hours, the Procedure again.

The roars and groans of the mistreatment resounds through the building and made course children
have a terrible impression on us.

Here in Brauweiler I visited starting from autumn 1844, only four and a years old, the Village
school, and while I was at this young age included as a "volunteer". We went back to Children
from this, so we had to pass through one of the Institute gates, one Sentinel had opened. One
day, we were struck with surprise when the guard The door opened and we now instead of helmets
in use what has been a shining helmet throne of very great height on his head saw. These early
helmets were compared their successors at the present time, like
gas and heavy.

We recovered us about our surprise and our only wonder when the guard zuherrschte us: "Guys, makes
that you come in, or I'll slam the door in his face!

"

Life for us children was in the hospital is not very diverse. It took place in mainly within a
part of the prison walls from. Also, our father is a very tough man and it was not anger was missing,
and more irritable, an irritability, in the meantime by the outbreak with him who has come more
and more consumption increased. The Mother and we children had to suffer much. More than once had
the mother of the Father fall into her arms when this boundless excitement in severe physical
punishment occurred to us. If beating the highest outflow of educational wisdom, then I have a
real patterns have become human. But what I've become, I was well
despite the beating.

On the other hand, again the father was trying again busiest for our good, for he was in spite
of everything a kind-hearted man, he could us as Christmas, New Year and Easter, a joy prepare,
it was, as far as it permitted the limited resources. And were very modest them. In addition
to free lodging (two rooms), heating and lighting the father received about a month eight dollars
salary. This had five, later four people get along, because my youngest brother, a very pretty child
and the favorite of the father, died in the summer of 1845.

The illness of my father meanwhile made rapid progress. By 19 October 1846 He died after two years
of marriage. So my mother was the second time in three years Widow and we fatherless orphans. From
this marriage the mother had no right to state Support. Now it was nothing, when, after their
home town of Wetzlar. In early November were again the belongings loaded on a car - today's moving
van there were probably at that time yet - and the trip to Cologne
was begun.

Weather was ugly. It was cold and rainy. In Cologne, the household was on the Rhine in the open
Sky set on the pavement, and from there by boat to Koblenz and from there by car be transported
to the Lahntal up to Wetzlar. When we clock at night against 10 the ship's cabin to travel to Koblenz
entered, this was crowded with people and there was a tobacco smoke to suffocation. Since no
one gave us space, we placed two boys, dead tired as we were, us close to the door on the floor and
slept as only tired children can sleep. The fifth or sixth day we finally arrived in Wetzlar,
where my grandmother was still and four married sisters - my mother lived - three sisters and
a brother.

Our real youth we spent here now. Wetzlar, a small, romantic setting City had, at that time a very
excellent elementary school. First, we were both in the military school located in a large
building, the German House, the former German knights belonged, was located. In the large courtyard
of this building is next to the one-story house in the former Charlotte Buff, the heroine of Goethe's
Werther, lived. The coincidence was that I later several times spent
the night in this house, when one of my cousins ​​Cicerone for the
Charlotte-Buff-room was.

I'm also still celebrating the centenary of Goethe (1849) recall, held on Wildbacher Fountain, the
Goethe woselbst Linde is located. The well is Since that time Goethe well. Ten years later, I attended
the celebration of Schiller's hundredth Birthday in Salzburg City Theater at.

After a few years, the charity school was merged with the public school, we were called now
Free students, the girls received the German House instructed as a school.
 Then Dan slipped from his seat and stood before his mount.
At once the ears of the stallion, which had been flat back, pricked sharply forward; the eyes
of the animal grew luminous and soft as the eyes of a woman, and he dropped the black velvet
of his muzzle beneath the master's chin. As for Dan Barry, he rewarded this outburst of affection
with no touch of his hand; but his lips moved, and he seemed to be whispering a secret to his
horse. The wolf in the meantime had viewed this scene with growing unrest, and now it trotted
up and placed itself at the side of the man. Receiving no attention in this position, it caught
the arm of the man between its great fangs and drew his hands down. The stallion, angered by
this interruption, raised a delicate forefoot to strike, and was received with a terrific snarl--the
first sound of the entire scene.

"Bart," said the man, and his voice was not raised or harsh, but came as softly as running
water, "if you ain't going to be a gentleman, I got to teach you manners. Get up on Satan's
back and lie down till I tell you to get off."

The wolf received this command with a snarl even more blood-curdling than before, but he obeyed,
slinking sidewise a reluctant pace or two, and then springing to the back of the stallion with
a single bound. There he crouched, still snarling softly until his master raised a significant
forefinger. At that he lowered his head and maintained a fiercely observant silence.

"Dan!" called Buck Daniels.

The other whirled.

"Speakin' of pets," observed Buck Daniels, "I heard tell once about a gent that had a tame
lion. Which you got the outbeatingest pair I ever see, Dan. Gentle, ain't they, like a stampede
of cows!"

But Barry left this remark unanswered. He ran to the tall fence, placed his hand on the top
rail, and vaulted lightly over it. Then he clasped the hand of the larger man, and his face
lighted.

"Buck," he said, "I been sort of lonesome. It feels pretty good to see you agin."

"Oh man," answered Buck Daniels, "speakin' of bein' lonesome------" He checked himself. "How
about steppin' inside and havin' a talk?"

The other started forward agreeably, but stopped almost at once.

"Heel!" he called, without turning his head.

Black Bart left the back of the stallion in a long bound that carried him half way to the fence.
His next leap brought him over the rail and beside his master. Buck Daniels moved back a step
involuntarily.

"Bart," he said, "d'you know me?"

He stretched out his hand; and was received with a sudden baring of the fangs.

"Nice dog!" said Buck sarcastically. "Regular house-pet, ain't he?"

The other apparently missed the entire point of this remark. He said in his gentle, serious
way: "He used to be real wild, Buck. But now he don't mind people. He let the cook feed him
a chunk o' meat the other day; and you remember he don't usually touch stuff that other men
have handled."

"Yep," grunted Buck, "it's sure disgustin' to have a dog as tame as that. I'd bet he ain't
killed another dog for a whole day, maybe!"

And still Barry saw no irony in this.

He answered, as gravely as before: "No, it was the day before yesterday. Somebody come to town
and got drunk. He had two dogs, and sicked 'em on Bart."

Buck Daniels controlled an incipient shudder.

"Both dead?"

"I was inside the house," said Dan sadly, "and it took me a couple of seconds to get outside.
Of course by that time Bart had cut their throats."

"Of course. Didn't the drunk guy try to pot Bart?"

"Yes, he got out his gun; but, Mr. O'Brien, the bartender, persuaded him out of it. I was glad
there wasn't no trouble."

"My God!" exclaimed Buck Daniels. And then: "Well, let's go inside. We'll take your man-eater
along, if you want to."

A shadow came in the eyes of Barry.

"Can't we talk jest as well out here?"

"What's the matter with findin' some chairs?"

"Because I don't like to get inside walls. You know how four walls seem like so many pairs
of eyes standin' around you?"

"No," said Buck bluntly, "I don't know nothin' of the kind. What d'you mean?"

"I dunno," answered Barry, depressed. "It jest seems that way. Ain't you noticed how sort of
close it is in a house? Hard to breathe? Like you had on a shirt too small for you."

"We'll stay out here, then."

The other nodded, smiled, and made a gesture to the dog behind him. Black Bart crouched on
the ground, and Dan Barry sat down cross-legged, his shoulders leaning against the shaggy pelt
of Bart. Daniels followed the example with less grace. He was thinking very hard and fast,
and he rolled a Durham cigarette to fill the interlude.

"I s'pose you're bustin' to find out the news about the folks," he said dryly, at last.

The other sat with his hands loosely clasped in his lap. His wide eyes looked far away, and
there was about his lips that looseness, that lack of compression, which one sees so often
in children. He might have sat, in that posture, for the statue of thoughtlessness.

"What folks?" he asked at last

Buck Daniels had lighted a match, but now he sat staring blank until the match burned down
to his fingers. With an oath he tossed the remnant away and lighted another. He had drawn down
several long breaths of smoke to the bottom of his lungs before he could speak again.

"Some people you used to know; I suppose you've forgotten all about 'em, eh?" His eyes narrowed;
there was a spark of something akin to dread in them. "Kate Cumberland?" he queried.

A light came in the face of Dan Barry.

"Kate Cumberland?" he repeated. "How is she, Buck? Lately, I been thinkin' about her every day."

A trembling took the body and the voice of Daniels; his errand, after all, might meet some success.

"Kate?" he repeated. "Oh, ay, she's well enough. But Joe Cumberland ain't."

"No?"

"He's dyin' Dan."

And Dan replied calmly. "He's kind of old, I s'pose."

"Old?" said Buck, with a sort of horror. "Yes, he's old, right enough. D'you know why he's
dying? It's because you went away the way you done, Dan. That's what's killin' him."

Something of thought came in the face of Barry.

"Maybe I understand," he said slowly. "If I was to lose Satan, or Bart--" here the great dog
whined at the mention of his name, and Barry dropped a slender hand across the scarred forehead
of his servant. "If I was to lose 'em, I'd sort of mourn for 'em, maybe."

Buck Daniels set his teeth.

"I don't suppose it seems possible," he said, "that a man could miss another man the way you
could miss your--dog, eh? But it is! Joe Cumberland is dying for you, Dan, as sure as if you'd
put a bullet in his bowels."

The other hesitated and then frowned and made a gesture of vague dismissal.

"Don't you figure on doin' nothing about it?" asked Buck softly.

"What could I do?"

"My God A'mighty, ain't you got no human feelin's?"

"I dunno what you mean," said the soft voice.

"This! Can't you git on your hoss and ride back with me to Cumberland Ranch? Stay with the
old man till he gets back on his feet. Ain't that easy to do? Is your time so damned valuable
you can't spare a few days for that?"

"But I am goin' back," answered Dan, in a rather hurt voice. "They ain't no need for cussin'
me, Buck. I been thinkin' of Kate, every day, almost."

"Since when?"

"I dunno." Dan stirred uneasily. He looked up, and far above Buck, following the direction
of Dan's eyes, saw a pattern of wild geese. "I been sort of driftin' North towards the Cumberland
Ranch and Kate," went on Dan. He sighed: "I been thinkin' of her eyes, which is blue, Buck,
and her hair, and the soft sound of her voice. They been hangin' in my ears, stayin' behind
my eyes, lately, and I been driftin' up that way steady."

"Why, man," cried Buck, "then what's there to keep you here? Jump on your hoss, and we'll head
North in ten minutes."

"I will!" said Dan, full as eagerly. "We'll start full speed."

"Come on, then."

"Wait a minute!" said Dan, his voice growing suddenly cold. "I been forgettin' something."

Buck Daniels turned and found his companion strangely changed. There was a set expression of
coldness about his face, and a chill glitter in his eyes.

"I got to wait here for something."

"What's that?"

"They's a man in town that may want to see me."

"Mac Strann! I've heard about him. Dan, are you goin' to let Joe Cumberland die because you
want to stay here and fight it out with a dirty cutthroat?"

"I don't want to fight," protested Barry. "No, there ain't nothin' I like less than fightin'!"

Buck Daniels cursed softly and continuously to himself.

"Dan," he said, "can you sit there and lie like that to me? Ain't I seen you in action? Don't
I remember the way you trailed Jim Silent? Don't I remember how we all got down and prayed
you to keep away from Jim? Don't I remember how you threw everything to hell so's you could
get your hands on Jim? My God A'mighty, man, didn't I see your face when you had your fingers
in Silent's throat?"

An expression of unutterable revulsion rippled over the face of Dan Barry.

"Stop!" he commanded softly, and raised his slender hand. "Don't keep on talkin' about it.
It makes me sick--all through. Oh, Buck, they's a tingle in the tips of my fingers still from
the time I had 'em in his throat. And it makes me feel unclean--the sort of uncleanness that
won't wash out with no kind of soap and water. Buck, I'd most rather die myself than fight a man!"

A vast amazement overspread the countenance of Buck Daniels as he listened to this outburst;
it was as if he had heard a healthy man proclaim that he had no desire for bread and meat.
Something rose to his lips, but he swallowed it.

"Then it looks kind of simple to me," he said. "You hate fightin'. This gent Mac Strann likes
it; he lives on it; he don't do nothing but wait from day to day hungerin' for a scrap. What's
the out? Jest this! You hop on your hoss and ride out with me. Young Jerry Strann kicks out--Mac
Strann starts lookin' for you--he hears that you've beat it--he goes off and forgets about
you. Ain't that simple?"

The old uneasiness returned to the far-seeing eyes of Dan Barry.

"I dunno," he said, "maybe----"

Then he paused again.

"Have you got anything to say agin it?" urged Buck, arguing desperately.

"I dunno," repeated Barry, confused, "except that I keep thinking what a terrible disappointment
it'll be to this Mac Strann when his brother dies and I ain't around."

Buck Daniels stared, blinked, and then burst into unmelodious laughter. Satan trotted across
the corral and raised his head above the fence, whinnying softly. Barry turned his head and
smiled up to the horse.

Then he said: "Seems like if Jerry Strann dies I owe somebody something. Who? Mac Strann, I
reckon. I sort of got to stay and give him his chance."

"I hope to God," burst out Daniels, smashing his hands together, "that Mac Strann beats you
to a pulp! That's what I hope!"

The eyes of Dan Barry widened.

"Why d'you hope that?" he asked gently.

It brought Daniels again to speechlessness.

"Is it possible?" he growled to himself. "Are you a human bein' and yet you think more of your
hoss and your damned wolf-dog than you do of the life of a man? Dan, I'm askin' you straight,
is that a square thing to do?"

The fragile hands went out to him, palm up.

"Don't you see, Buck? I don't want to be this way. I jest can't help it!"

"Then the Lord help poor old Joe Cumberland--him that took you in out of the desert--him that
raised you from the time you was a kid--him that nursed you like you was his own baby--him
that loved you more'n he loved Kate--him that's lyin' back there now with fire in his eyes,
waitin', waitin', waitin', for you to come back. Dan, if you was to see him you'd go down on
your knees and ask him to forgive you!"

"I s'pose I would," murmured Barry thoughtfully.

"Dan, you're goin' to go with me!"

"I don't somehow think its my time for movin', Buck."

"Is that all you got to say to me?"

"I guess maybe it is, Buck."

"If I was to beg you to come for old-time's sake, and all we been through together, you and
me, wouldn't it make no difference to you?"

The large, gentle eyes focused far beyond Buck Daniels, somewhere on a point in the pale, hazy
blue of the spring sky.

"I'm kind of tired of talkin', Buck," he said at length.

And Buck Daniels rose and walked slowly away, with his head fallen. Behind him the stallion
neighed suddenly and loud, and it was so much like a blast of defiant triumph that Buck whirled
and shook his clenched fist at Satan.

CHAPTER XIV

MUSIC FOR OLD NICK

A thought is like a spur. It lifts the head of a man as the spur makes the horse toss his;
and it quickens the pace with a subtle addition of strength. Such a thought came to Buck Daniels
as he stepped again on the veranda of the hotel. It could not have been an altogether pleasant
inspiration, for it drained the colour from his face and made him clench his broad hands; and
next he loosened his revolver in its holster. A thought of fighting--of some desperate chance
he had once taken, perhaps.

But also it was a thought which needed considerable thought. He slumped into a wicker chair
at one end of the porch and sat with his chin resting on his chest while he smoked cigarette
after cigarette and tossed the butts idly over the rail. More than once he pressed his hand
against his lips as though there were sudden pains there. The colour did not come back to his
face; it continued as bloodless as ever, but there was a ponderable light in his eyes, and
his jaws became more and more firmly set. It was not a pleasant face to watch at that moment,
for he seemed to sit with a growing resolve.

Long moments passed before he moved a muscle, but then he heard, far away, thin, and clear,
whistling from behind the hotel. It was no recognisable tune. It was rather a strange improvisation,
with singable fragments here and there, and then wild, free runs and trills. It was as if some
bird of exquisite singing powers should be taken in a rapture of song, so that it whistled
snatches here and there of its usual melody, but all between were great, whole-throated rhapsodies.
As the sound of this whistling came to him, Buck raised his head suddenly. And finally, still
listening, he rose to his feet and turned into the dining-room.

There he found the waitress he had met before, and he asked her for the name of the doctor
who took care of the wounded Jerry Strann.

"There ain't no doc," said the waitress. "It's Fatty Matthews, the deputy marshal, who takes
care of that Strann--bad luck to him! Fatty's in the barroom now. But what's the matter? You
seem like you was hearin' something?"

"I am," replied Daniels enigmatically. "I'm hearin' something that would be music for the ears
of Old Nick."

And he turned on his heel and strode for the barroom. There he found Fatty in the very act
of disposing of a stiff three-fingers of red-eye. Daniels stepped to the bar, poured his own
drink, and then stood toying with the glass. For though the effect of red-eye may be pleasant
enough, it has an essence which appalls the stoutest heart and singes the most leathery throat;
it is to full-grown men what castor oil is to a child. Why men drink it is a mystery whose
secret is known only to the profound soul of the mountain-desert. But while Daniels fingered
his glass he kept an eye upon the other man at the bar.

It was unquestionably the one he sought. The excess flesh of the deputy marshal would have
brought his nickname to the mind of an imbecile. However, Fatty was humming softly to himself,
and it is not the habit of men who treat very sick patients to sing.

"I'll hit it agin," said Fatty. "I need it."

"Have a bad time of it to-day?" asked O'Brien sympathetically.

"Bad time to-day? Yep, an' every day is the same. I tell you, O'Brien, it takes a pile of nerve
to stand around that room expectin' Jerry to pass out any minute, and the eyes of that devil
Mac Strann followin' you every step you make. D'you know, if Jerry dies I figure Mac to go
at my throat like a bulldog."

"You're wrong, Fatty," replied O'Brien. "That ain't his way about it. He takes his time killin'
a man. Waits till he can get him in a public place and make him start the picture. That's Mac
Strann! Remember Fitzpatrick? Mac Strann followed Fitz nigh onto two months, but Fitz knew
what was up and he never would make a move. He knowed that if he made a wrong pass it would
be his last. So he took everything and let it pass by. But finally it got on his nerves. One
time--it was right here in my barroom, Fatty----"

"The hell you say!"

"Yep, that was before your time around these parts. But Fitz had a couple of jolts of red-eye
under his vest and felt pretty strong. Mac Strann happened in and first thing you know they
was at it. Well, Fitz was a big man. I ain't small, but I had to look up when I talked to Fitz.
Scotch-Irish, and they got fightin' bred into their bone. Mac Strann passed him a look and
Fitz come back with a word. Soon as he got started he couldn't stop. Wasn't a pretty thing
to watch, either. You could see in Fitz's face that he knew he was done for before he started,
but he wouldn't, let up. The booze had him going and he was too proud to back down. Pretty
soon he started cussing Mac Strann.

"Well, by that time everybody had cleared out of the saloon, because they knowed that them
sort of words meant bullets comin'. But Mac Strann jest stood there watchin', and grinnin'
in his ugly way--damn his soul black!--and never sayin' a word back. By God, Fatty, he looked
sort of hungry. When he grinned, his upper lip went up kind of slow and you could see his big
teeth. I expected to see him make a move to sink 'em in the throat of Fitz. But he didn't.
Nope, he didn't make a move, and all the time Fitz ravin' and gettin' worse and worse. Finally
Fitz made the move. Yep, he pulled his gun and had it damned near clean on Mac Strann before
that devil would stir. But when he did, it was jest a flash of light. Both them guns went off,
but Mac's bullet hit Fitz's hand and knocked the gun out of it--so of course his shot went
wild. But Fitz could see his own blood, and you know what that does to the Scotch-Irish? Makes
some people quit cold to see their own blood. I remember a kid at school that was a whale at
fightin' till his nose got to bleedin', or something, and then he'd quit cold. But you take
a Scotch-Irishman and it works just the other way. Show him his own colour and he goes plumb crazy.

"That's what happened to Fitz. When he saw the blood on his hand he made a dive at Mac Strann.
After that it wasn't the sort of thing that makes a good story. Mac Strann got him around the
ribs and I heard the bones crack. God! And him still squeezin', and Fitz beatin' away at Mac's
face with his bleedin' hand.

"Will you b'lieve that I stood here and was sort of froze? Yes, Fatty, I couldn't make a move.
And I was sort of sick and hollow inside the same way I went one time when I was a kid and
seen a big bull horn a yearlin'.

"Then I heard the breath of Fitz comin' hoarse, with a rattle in it--and I heard Mac Strann
whining like a dog that's tasted blood and is starvin' for more. A thing to make your hair
go up on end, like they say in the story-books.

"Then Fitz--he was plumb mad--tried to bite Mac Strann. And then Mac let go of him and set
his hands on the throat of Fitz. It happened like a flash--I'm here to swear that I could hear
the bones crunch. And then Fitz's mouth sagged open and his eyes rolled up to the ceiling,
and Mac Strann threw him down on the floor. Just like that! Damn him! And then he stood over
poor dead Fitz and kicked him in those busted ribs and turned over to the bar and says to me:
'Gimme!'

"Like a damned beast! He wanted to drink right there with his dead man beside him. And what
was worse, I had to give him the bottle. There was a sort of haze in front of my eyes. I wanted
to pump that devil full of lead, but I knowed it was plain suicide to try it.

"So there he stood and ups with a glass that was brimmin' full, and downs it at a swallow--gurglin'--like
a hog! Fatty, how long will it be before there's an end to Mac Strann?"

But Fatty Matthews shrugged his thick shoulders and poured himself another drink.

"There ain't a hope for Jerry Strann?" cut in Buck Daniels.

"Not one in a million," coughed Fatty, disposing of another formidable potion.

"And when Jerry dies, Mac starts for this Barry?"

"Who's been tellin' you?" queried O'Brien dryly. "Maybe you been readin' minds, stranger?"

Buck Daniels regarded the bartender with a mild and steadfast interest. He was smiling with
the utmost good-humour, but there was that about him which made big O'Brien flush and look
down to his array of glasses behind the bar.

"I been wondering," went on Daniels, "if Mac Strann mightn't come out with Barry about the
way Jerry did. Ain't it possible?"

"No," replied Fatty Matthews with calm decision. "It ain't possible. Well, I'm due back in
my bear cage. Y'ought to look in on me, O'Brien, and see the mountain-lion dyin' and the grizzly
lookin' on."

"Will it last long?" queried O'Brien.

"Somewhere's about this evening."

Here Daniels started violently and closed his hand hard around his whiskey glass which he had
not yet raised towards his lips.

"Are you sure of that, marshal?" he asked. "If Jerry's held on this long ain't there a chance
that he'll hold on longer? Can you date him up for to-night as sure as that?"

"I can," said the deputy marshal. "It ain't hard when you seen as many go west as I've seen.
It ain't harder than it is to tell when the sand will be out of an hour glass. When they begin
going down the last hill it ain't hard to tell when they'll reach the bottom."

"Ain't you had anybody to spell you, Fatty?" broke in O'Brien.

"Yep. I got Haw-Haw Langley up there. But he ain't much help. Just sits around with his hands
folded. Kind of looks like Haw-Haw wanted Jerry to pass out."

And Matthews went humming through the swinging door.

CHAPTER XV

OLD GARY PETERS

For some moments after this Buck Daniels remained at the bar with his hand clenched around
his glass and his eyes fixed before him in the peculiar second-sighted manner which had marked
him when he sat so long on the veranda.

"Funny thing," began O'Brien, to make conversation, "how many fellers go west at sunset. Seems
like they let go all holts as soon as the dark comes. Hey?"

"How long before sunset now?" asked Buck Daniels sharply.

"Maybe a couple of hours."

"A couple of hours," repeated Daniels, and ground his knuckles across his forehead. "A couple
of hours!"

He raised his glass with a jerky motion and downed the contents; the chaser stood disregarded
before him and O'Brien regarded his patron with an eye of admiration.

"You long for these parts?" he asked.

"No, I'm strange to this range. Riding up north pretty soon, if I can get someone to tell me
the lay of the land. D'you know it?"

"Never been further north than Brownsville."

"Couldn't name me someone that's travelled about, I s'pose?"

"Old Gary Peters knows every rock within three day's riding. He keeps the blacksmith shop across
the way."

"So? Thanks; I'll look him up."

Buck Daniels found the blacksmith seated on a box before his place of business; it was a slack
time for Gary Peters and he consoled himself for idleness by chewing the stem of an unlighted
corn-cob, whose bowl was upside down. His head was pulled down and forward as if by the weight
of his prodigious sandy moustache, and he regarded a vague horizon with misty eyes.

"Seen you comin' out of O'Brien's," said the blacksmith, as Buck took possession of a nearby
box. "What's the news?"

"Ain't any news," responded Buck dejectedly. "Too much talk; no news."

"That's right," nodded Gary Peters. "O'Brien is the out-talkingest man I ever see. Ain't nobody
on Brownsville can get his tongue around so many words as O'Brien."

So saying, he blew through his pipe, picked up a stick of soft pine, and began to whittle it
to a point.

"In my part of the country," went on Buck Daniels, "they don't lay much by a man that talks
a pile."

Here the blacksmith turned his head slowly, regarded his companion for an instant, and then
resumed his whittling.

"But," said Daniels, with a sigh, "if I could find a man that knowed the country north of Brownsville
and had a hobble on his tongue I could give him a night's work that'd be worth while."

Gary Peters removed his pipe from his mouth and blew out his dropping moustaches. He turned
one wistful glance upon his idle forge; he turned a sadder eye upon his companion.

"I could name you a silent man or two in Brownsville," he said, "but there ain't only one man
that knows the country right."

"That so? And who might he be?"

"Me."

"You?" echoed Daniels in surprise. He turned and considered Gary as if for the first time.
"Maybe you know the lay of the land up as far as Hawkin's Arroyo?"

"Me? Son, I know every cactus clear to Bald Eagle."

"H-m-m!" muttered Daniels. "I s'pose maybe you could name some of the outfits from here on
a line with Bald Eagle--say you put 'em ten miles apart?"

"Nothin' easier. I could find 'em blindfold. First due out they's McCauley's. Then lay a bit
west of north and you hit the Circle K Bar--that's about twelve mile from McCauley's. Hit 'er
up dead north again, by east, and you come eight miles to Three Roads. Go on to--"

"Partner," cut in Daniels, "I could do business with you."

"Maybe you could."

"My name's Daniels."

"I'm Gary Peters. H'ware you?"

They shook hands.

"Peters," said Buck Daniels, "you look square, and I need you in square game; but there ain't
any questions that go with it. Twenty iron men for one day's riding and one day's silence."

"M'frien'," murmured Peters. "In my day I've gone three months without speakin' to anything
in boots; and I wasn't hired for it, neither."

"You know them people up the line," said Daniels. "Do they know you?"

"I'll tell a man they do! Know Gary Peters?"

"Partner, this is what I want. I want you to leave Brownsville inside of ten minutes and start
riding for Elkhead. I want you to ride, and I want you to ride like hell. Every ten miles,
or so, I want you to stop at some place where you can get a fresh hoss. Get your fresh hoss
and leave the one you've got off, and tell them to have the hoss you leave ready for me any
time to-night. It'll take you clear till to-morrow night to reach Elkhead, even with relayin'
your hosses?"

"Round about that, if I ride like hell. What do I take with me?"

"Nothing. Nothing but the coin I give you to hire someone at every stop to have that hoss you've
left ready for me. Better still, if you can have 'em, get a fresh hoss. Would they trust you
with hosses that way, Gary?"

"Gimme the coin and where they won't trust me I'll pay cash."

"I can do it. It'll about bust me, but I can do it."

"You going to try for a record between Brownsville and Elkhead, eh? Got a bet up, eh?"

"The biggest bet you ever heard of," said Daniels grimly. "You can tell the boys along the
road that I'm tryin' for time. Have you got a fast hoss to start with?"

"Got a red mare that ain't much for runnin' cattle, but she's greased lightnin' for a short bust."

"Then get her out. Saddle her up, and be on your way. Here's my stake--I'll keep back one twenty
for accidents. Dropped
complained from distant ponds, a nightingale sang in the bushes her delightful song Feuerwürmchen floated
like little stars in the night and played happily in the white beam of the moon.

The cold despair Adalbert soon can dissolve in the tears of sadness. - If he Now comes the sounds
of the nightingale, when his eyes shining through the sky hurried, so it seemed the whole Today
nothing but a dream. - How could this disaster disfigure beautiful world? he thought, and looked
forward to the pleasant feeling when he would wake up from this dream.

His

imagination began a charming game with the rays of the moon, she recorded grass swaying in the
image of his Emma, ​​as soon as they ran to meet him happy, as soon as they Kneeling before
her father was and asked him for his blessing. In the wonderful creations of the moonlit He saw clouds
'he soon monsters that his Emma pursued, then saw' himself, as he for they fought and won
- they gave him the crown of reward, and ran the wreath together in a glowing dagger, but
his eyes followed as long as the floating clouds, until he found the myrtle wreath in it.

Sun raved about in his mind the sweetest dreams, it was like the wrath of Frederick in a far distance,
lovely pictures lived and moved in his soul and put a smile before every sad memory, - as
the moon gradually hereditary and the distant hills the first gray light of day was shaking.

Suddenly,
the beautiful veil torn, his temple embraced so gentle, all illusions
the imagination sank suddenly.

The stars are extinguished, the nightingale fell silent, a sacred silence in nature - and he found
himself and his despair again. The daily came back all the feelings of pain in his soul. All
fantasies fled, the joys decreased with the moon and under the cold morning wind was blowing
the terrible conviction : you are unhappy!

How many times have I not seen them under that tree - he thought now,
- I will then behold no more!

My first thought on waking she was, how happy I studied the first Look in her eyes! - Now the
pale Gram will sit on my couch, and me with my Awakening the withered hand stretching out. -
Oh, Emma! will you forget me? - O yet even wish I to see her, to remind them of the promise
of their loyalty. - Will I they see it again? She sleeps maybe, not guesses that my resignation
oversleeps forever. - Emma! Shall I go away without at least a sweet from her mouth: Farewell!
take?

He delayed his departure, he still hoped that they rush past in his
room would, as they often did in the morning, he listened attentively
to each train of the wind. - Already a hundred times he had opened
the door, and a hundred times he stepped back into the room, it occurred
to him each time that he was taking for ever parting, that he, when
he stepped out the door was perhaps just go so out of life, without
seeing her again. - One hour after the others ran away, she did not
come, - as the sun rose up behind dark black clouds - Furious he opened
the door, slammed it violently and left.

* * * * *

Adalbert's senses were locked, he left the castle as a dreamer. Kurd, a servant Frederick came
to him with a horse against the court and asked him if he does not sit wanted, but Adalbert him
down with bitter derision: Frederick horses are too noble for the
Adalbert scarce, I am not a beggar in order to receive a gift from
him.

       

He sighed and looked up to Emma's window, his gaze stuck burning at once, where he had never
seen so many times, it seemed to him that he should at least now they once again see, he did
not see them.

Already he turned again to doubtful after the castle when his faithful hunting dog came toward
him and jumped up wagging. - Met half against his will he angrily returned his foot. The dog lay
down and sad and flattering looked imploringly up at his master. - Can the despair distort
people so much? he cried, yes you faithful companion, you shall accompany me on my pilgrimage,
I will one being next to me have, I can see sadness in the eyes, you shall share my pain,
I still love you, you're not a man!

He went a little easier on the drawbridge through the outer gate. He stood on the embankment and looked
thoughtfully and silently back to the castle.

The sky was gloomy and black on the area, a cold wind creaked with the weathervane, the waves
splashing of the moat melancholy against the wall and sounded strangely sad in the rain clouds
of the joyful singing a lark down. With mournful pleasure sought Adalbert to the places where he
was a boy with the old Wilibald play, where Frederick had raised him up from the earth, where
he the little Emma herumgeschwärmt so often was - how was that now everything is changed! then
the sun was shining so bright, the future was like a golden May sky spread out before him, -
And now! - He thought of Emma's suspicions, he looked at that melancholy withered tree out,
the sad symbol of his life.

Some people left the country on the opposite hill to their work.

The bulls were panting under the oppressive yoke, and dragged the hoarse creaking plow behind.
Poor Human life! exclaimed Adalbert. A day crawls along sullenly behind the other, each Morning
reddens to work; unhappy people! who live only today to tomorrow, just to make way for a different
day today, which holds the inexorable fate, this boring game to play.

He hurried away and stood in a long time suddenly stopped in a forest
area, because he remembered is that from here, the area of ​​the castle
for the last time saw.

He looked again appeared with the melancholy sensation back, all the joys of his childhood and
youth he now died and hundreds of well-known trees and rocks stood like tombstones on their
Graves. After much staring, he turned and left, he turned around again, but she was gone, the
forest had been brought forward as a black curtain.

Adalbert avoided on his trip the sight of men, he pushed his way through
lonely Forests and wild fruit and wild roots had to satisfy his hunger.

He did not want anyone Thanks be guilty. The unfortunate man believes himself so much hated by
all mankind, He finds solace in the illusion and in the joy of all mankind to despise. This
contempt Adalbert was the companion and traveled several days to see a person without him
or to miss.

The sun went down, her pale rays were refracted through the dark green
and flickered dying on the waves of a small trickling stream.

Adalbert sat down at the shore of Brook, thinking of the past. The wind played with the green band
of Emma's, which at his arms flapping. - Ha! you want her back! he exclaimed. - No, you have
to remain, yes because your color is the color of hope. Where the flower of hope fades as sprouts
the hemlock of despair. You're the last one, the only thing I was left by Emma; if I lose you,
what can I expect to? - The first tear since its Banishment fell on the green belt. - Unlucky
omen! He drove in a subdued voice continued. - Only in tears should I expect? Tears will be my
whole harvest. - He dried them off, they had bleached the place where they had fallen. - Emma!
he exclaimed suddenly, - Fades the color of hope! - If you could I ever forget!

He leaned against a birch tree, which rustled above him, and the monotonous melody of the brook
rocking him in a sympathetic light slumber, from which it the clash
of swords again aroused. - The gray light of the evening flew uncertain
at the tops of the trees and terrible drowned out the sound of weapons
through the loneliness.

He jumped up and drew his sword, as he followed the sounds. A small footpath leading him to an
open space of the forest where he saw three men fighting against
a knight who fearless and cold standing there with a hero look at
all hazards.

He rushed out and suggested that the next robber down with aufgehabenem sword; just fell in
the moment the second by the hand of the stranger knight, trembling, threw his sword from the
third to and fled into the night of the forest.

Welcome! my Savior cried the stranger knight, shaking his hand warmly Adalbert; 're welcome!
You I owe my life!

But I want you to adopt you, Adalbert replied, smiling bitterly.

Are you so fall with the fate? - Asked the stranger, - that life's
value lost with you?

Adalbert. Spared an unhappy man, ask him about his misfortune, it is a blow give up his wound.

The stranger lifted the visor of the predator, the Adalbert had killed.
- Ha!

Manfred! he exclaimed.

Manfred? shouted Adalbert. - Yes, by God! Do you have to pay me here your fault? - Well you
will not want berennen the fortress of Frederick. -

Come with me, young hero, "said the stranger, accompanied me to my castle, I am the Knight of Löwenau
if you do not my name should be unknown.

They went. - I know him, began Adalbert, the infamous Manfred had during your Stay put your land
in Palestine in possession.

Yes, and when he heard that I had returned, he slept with his companions
in the Thicket of bushes, because he knew that led me through my street.

We are, in my Veste near, so I sent ahead of my entourage and sat
alone on my way.

I was attack and would have been lost without your gallant assistance.

They stepped out of the forest and the castle lay before them. Adalbert wanted to go. Where? asked
William of Löwenau.

I find no one that I do not see a happy, said Adalbert. Why should my Sadness disturb your joy?

Löwenau.
Are you a criminal? - He let go of his hand.

       

Adalbert. No, thank Heaven!

Löwenau. And do want to share the fate of criminals?

Would you like a parricide hide in forests and dark caves?

Want to escape the sight of men, as one the conscience on the rack spans? - The poor man must look
up boldly, the strokes of doom give him a right to demand everywhere love. - Zögre not if I should
think you are a brave knight. -

Adalbert thought it over again, but the idea to apply for a wicked drive at him, the Ritter to follow.

*
* * * *

In the castle, the two sat at the table and watched his guest exactly Löwenau.

Stranger that he began when their meal was finished, I have to thank you a lot, you seem to be a
noble man, take my friendship, my loyalty to brother, and tell me, I can wear some of my great
debt, can I help you?

Adalbert. Me? - O Wilhelm, what can benefit the human aid, is angry at the fate?

Löwenau. Fate? - That the unfortunate but is so proud so much from the deity pursued to believe!
- Be honest with your friend. - Thank this went all the help lost,
that they did not trust his friend, and yet they complain after: I'm
lost, No one wants to help me! or do they sigh over their fate, since
they had the reins their lives in the hands hold.

I am convinced that faith, we govern ourselves our destiny We must not let go of the reins only inactive,
and they fully inertia of a foreign want to transfer power. - There
are still so dumb?

I will speak, said Adalbert, for thou art a noble man, you do not think like the Most people, and
therefore I will trust you, though I know beforehand that you I can not help. - He told him the
story of his accident, and concluded with these Saying: Look, friend,
has made me so miserable love, through them I am an orphan and without
Country.

The joy for me has closed its door forever, and what is behind me Sunshine, in front of me stretches
an endless night. The world is dead to me and I am dead to the world, it is to me a barren
beach, on the me an unfortunate shipwreck cast, the only hope that I was left out of this
storm, - is the grave, and this Hope I can thank heaven, are torn
by anything, this refuge is the Unfortunate secured.

Löwenau. If, however, such a valiant knight, as you speak, so absolute
about love ?

Leave

Adalbert. O knight, take my love and you take away everything that does not scorn me is. - Only
they called me to be brave, to humanity, have been in this pure fire all my feelings purified,
and all my virtues are only the reflection of love. Go the sun, so even the last glimmer of
borrowed flees from the Evening clouds. With my Love is dying within me, what is called man.

Löwenau.
I will believe you, because I've never loved before, live since my childhood I the noise of weapons,
a beautiful horse for me was the masterpiece of nature, and I understood
the beauty to admire in armor - and you feel certain that it gives
you no other happiness in this world than love. -

Adalbert.

None! I failed to love her wreath, so for me all the flowers in nature died.

Löwenau. And Emma is the only girl who can love you ever?

Adalbert. I would be self-contempt if I do not love everything they could.

Löwenau. It must be very beautiful. - Adalbert, I will do a proposal by you but do not have to
reject. During your story, I took an idea that certain so strange he would run. - But even
before a word. - You told me in your story the name of Konrad castle rock, I can give you
some news that he remained in Palestine. He was killed in action on my part. What if you now
that this Obstacle from the path is cleared, went to Frederick of man stone, and again-his Daughter
stopped?

Adalbert. In order to be rejected again shameful? - My pride forbids it, Emma to look this way.
- Your other proposal, he may be as strange as he wants. -

Löwenau.

Now I will impart to you my whole design, but you must not interrupt me, before I had ended.
- You stay here in my castle and you're living in some obscurity. - I will travel to Frederick
of Stone and husband to stop his daughter, he beats her I certainly
not down, because he knows me as one of the richest knight of that
country, even my name in battles not without pride - on my knightly
honor! my brother loyalty!

I travel with it then here, as I receive them from the hand of her
father, you live in with her then this fortress, or another, it is
secretly to the death of her father at your rightful consort, after
you like her and publicly recognize this. - Turn me nothing one, I
can never do too much for you. - I know, a thousand friends in my
place would not act, and hundreds of fans would consider himself to
give her consent, but if you love them so, as you say, if you really
Emma loves again, so you must both may put my strange design no scruples
in the way, no anxiety Prevent human happiness. -

Adalbert.

O how I want to thank you? - He quickly hugged him and pressed him
hard on his tapping chest. - Brother, you pay, how to repay a kindness
to a beggar. - How bit of a life without love for the coronation of
the most ardent wishes?

Löwenau. I dare but my integrity?

Adalbert. I otherwise have earned
your friend's name?

Löwenau. His face was
a study which few men could have solved; unless there had been someone present who had seen
a man walk to his execution. Beside Dan Barry he stopped and watched the agile hands at work.
There was a change in the position of Barry now, for he had taken the chair facing the door
and the entire crowd; Buck Daniels stood opposite. The horsehair plied back and forth. And
Daniels noted the hands, lean, tapering like the fingers of a girl of sixteen. They were perfectly
steady; they were the hands of one who had struggled, in life, with no greater foe than ennui.

"Dan," said Buck, and there was a quiver of excitement in his voice, like the tremor of a piano
string long after it has been struck. "Dan, I been thinking about something and now I'm ready
to tell you what it is."

Barry looked up in slow surprise.

Now the face of Buck Daniels held what men have called a "deadly pallor," that pallor which
comes over one who is cornered and about to fight for his life. He leaned closer, resting one
hand upon the edge of the table, so that his face was close to Dan Barry.

"Barry," he said, "I'm askin' you for the last time: Will you get your hoss and ride back to
Kate Cumberland with me?"

Dan Barry smiled his gentle, apologetic smile.

"I don't no ways see how I can, Buck."

"Then," said Buck through his teeth, "of all the lyin' hounds in the world you're the lyin'est
and meanest and lowest. Which they ain't words to tell you what I think of you. Take this instead!"

And the hand which rested on the table darted up and smote Dan Barry on the cheek, a tingling
blow. With the same motion which started his hand for the blow, Buck Daniels turned on his
heel and stepped a pace or two towards the centre of the room.

There was not a man in the room who had not heard the last words of Buck Daniels, and not a
man who had not seen the blow. Everyone of them had seen, or heard accurately described, how
the slender stranger beat Jerry Strann to the draw and shot him down in that same place. Such
a moan came from them as when many men catch their breath with pain, and with a simultaneous
movement those who were in line with Buck Daniels and Barry leaped back against the bar on
one side and against the wall on the other. Their eyes, fascinated, held on the face of Barry,
and they saw the pale outline which the fingers of Daniels had left on the cheek of the other.
But if horror was the first thing they felt, amazement was the next. For Dan Barry sat bolt
erect in his chair, staring in an astonishment too great for words. His right hand hung poised
and moveless just above the butt of his gun; his whole posture was that of one in the midst
of an action, suspended there, frozen to stone. They waited for that poised hand to drop, for
the slender fingers to clutch the butt of the gun, for the convulsive jerk that would bring
out the gleaming barrel, the explosion, the spurt of smoke, and Buck Daniels lurching forward
to his face on the floor.

But that hand did not move; and Buck Daniels? Standing there with his back to the suspended
death behind him, he drew out Durham and brown papers, without haste, rolled a cigarette, and
reached to a hip pocket.

At that move Dan Barry started. His hand darted down and fastened on his gun, and he leaned
forward in his chair with the yellow glimmering light flaring up in his eyes. But the hand
of Buck Daniels came out from his hip bearing a match. He raised his leg, scratched the match,
there was a blue spurt of flame, and Buck calmly lighted his cigarette and started towards
the door, sauntering.

The instant the swinging doors closed Barry started from his chair with a strange cry--none
of them had ever heard the like from human lips--for there was grief in it, and above all there
was a deadly eagerness. So a hungry man might cry out at the sight of food. Down the length
of the barroom he darted and was drawing his gun as he whipped through the doors. A common
rush followed him, and those who reached the open first saw Buck Daniels leaning far forward
in his saddle and spurring desperately into the gloom of the night. Instantly he was only a
twinkling figure in the shadows, and the beat of the hoofs rattled back at them. Dan Barry
stood with his gun poised high for a second or more. Then he turned, dropped the gun into the
holster, and with the same strange, unearthly cry of eagerness, he raced off in the direction
of the barns.

There were some who followed him even then, and this is what they reported to incredulous ears
when they returned. Barry ran straight for the left hand corral and wrenched at the gate, which
appeared to be secured by a lock and chain. Seeing that it would not give way he ran around
to the barn, and came out again carrying a saddle and bridle. These he tossed over the high
fence into the corral. Then he picked up a loose scantling and with it pried and wrenched off
the top bar of the fence in one section and vaulted into the enclosure.

The black stallion had whinnied once or twice during this time and the great black, shaggy
dog had come snarling and whining about the feet of his master. Now the stranger tossed on
the saddle and cinched it with amazing speed, sprang onto his mount, and urged it across to
the other side of the corral. Up to that moment no one in the little crowd of watchers had
suspected the intention of the rider. For the fence, even after the removal of the top bar,
was nearly six feet in height. But when Barry took his horse to the far side of the corral
and then swung him about facing the derailed section, it was plain that he meant to attempt
to jump at that place. Even then, as O'Brien explained later, and many a time, the thing was
so impossible that he could not believe his eyes. There was a dreamlike element to the whole
event. And like a phantom in a vision he saw the black horse start into a sharp gallop; saw
the great dog sail across the fence first; saw the horse and rider shoot into the air against
the stars; heard the click of hoofs against the top rail; heard the thud of hoofs on the near
side of the fence, and then the horseman flashed about the corner of the barn and in an instant
his hoofs were beating a far distant tattoo.

As for the watchers, they returned in a dead silence to the barroom and they had hardly entered
when Mac Strann stalked through the doors behind them; he went straight to O'Brien.

"Somewhere about," he said in his thick, deep voice, "they's a man named Dan Barry. Where is he?"

And O'Brien answered: "Mac, he was sittin' down there at that table until two minutes ago,
but where he is now I ain't any idea."

The tall, skeleton form of Haw-Haw Langley materialised behind Mac Strann, and his face was
contorted with anger.

"If he was here two minutes ago," he said, "he ain't more than two minutes away."

"Which way?" asked Mac Strann.

"North," answered a score of voices.

O'Brien stepped up to Mac Strann. He said: "Mac, we know what you got in your mind. We know
what you've lost, and there ain't any of us that ain't sorry for Jerry--and for you. But, Mac,
I can give you the best advice you ever heard in your life: Keep off'n the trail of Barry!"

Haw-Haw Langley added at the ear of Mac Strann: "That was Jerry's advice when he lay dyin'.
An' it's my advice, too. Mac, Barry ain't a safe man to foller!"

"Haw-Haw," answered Mac Strann, "Will you gimme a hand saddlin' my hoss? I got an appointment,
an' I'm two minutes late already."

CHAPTER XVIII

DOCTOR BYRNE ANALYSES

In the room which had been assigned to his use Doctor Randall Byrne sat down to an unfinished
letter and began to write.

"Dinner has interrupted me, my dear Loughburne. I have dined opposite Miss Cumberland--only
the two of us at a great table--with a wide silence around us--and the Chinese cook padding
to and fro from the kitchen. Have I told you of that room? No, I believe that I have made no
more than casual mention of my environment here, for reasons which are patent. But to-night
I wished that you might look in upon the scene. Along the walls hang a rope with which Mr.
Cumberland won a roping and tieing contest in his youth--a feat upon which he prides himself
highly; at another place hang the six-shooters of a notorious desperado, taken from his dead
body; there is the sombrero of a Mexican guerilla chief beside the picture of a prize bull,
and an oil painting of Mr. Cumberland at middle age adjoins an immense calendar on which is
portrayed the head of a girl in bright colours--a creature with amazing quantities of straw-coloured
hair. The table itself is of such size that it is said all the guests at a round-up--a festival
of note in these barbaric regions--can be easily seated around it. On one side of this table
I sat--and on the other side sat the girl, as far away as if an entire room had separated us.

"Before going down to the meal I had laid aside my glasses, for I have observed that spectacles,
though often beneficial to the sight, are not always equally commendable in the opinion of
women; and it should assuredly be one's endeavour to become agreeable to those about us.

"Be it noted at this point, my dear Loughburne, that I have observed peculiar properties in
the eyes of Miss Cumberland. Those of all other humans and animals that have fallen under my
observance were remarkable only for their use in seeing, whereas the eyes of Miss Cumberland
seem peculiarly designed to be seen. This quality I attribute to the following properties of
the said eyes. First, they are in size well beyond the ordinary. Secondly, they are of a colour
restful to behold. It is, indeed, the colour of the deep, blue evening sky into which one may
stare for an incalculable distance.

"As I have said, then, I noted a glow in these eyes, though they were so immediately lowered
that I could not be sure. I felt, however, an extraordinary warmth beneath my collar, the suffusion
of blood passing swiftly towards my forehead. I inquired if she had smiled and for what reason;
whereat she immediately assured me that she had not, and smiled while making the assurance.

"I was now possessed of an unusual agitation, augmented by the manner in which Miss Cumberland
looked at me out of twinkling but not unkindly eyes. What could have caused this perturbation
I leave to your scientific keenness in analysis.

"I discovered an amazing desire to sing, which indecorous impulse I, of course, immediately
inhibited and transferred the energy into conversation.

"'The weather,' said I. 'has been uncommonly delightful to-day.'

"I observed that Miss Cumberland greeted this sentence with another smile.

"Presently she remarked: 'It has seemed a bit windy to me.'

"I recalled that it is polite to agree with ladies and instantly subjoined with the greatest
presence of mind: 'Quite right! A most abominably stormy day!'

"At this I was astonished to be greeted by another burst of laughter, even more pronounced
than the others.

"'Doctor Byrne,' she said, 'you are absolutely unique.'

"'It is a point,' I said earnestly, 'which I shall immediately set about to change.'

"At this she raised both hands in a gesture of protest, so that I could observe her eyes shining
behind the slender, brown fingers--observe, Loughburne, that white skin is falsely considered
a thing of beauty in women--and she remarked, still laughing: 'Indeed, you must not change!'

"I replied with an adroit change of front: 'Certainly not.'

"For some mysterious reason the girl was again convulsed and broke off her laughter to cry
in a voice of music which still tingles through me: 'Doctor Byrne, you are delightful!'

"I should gladly have heard her say more upon this point, but it being one which I could not
gracefully dispute with her, and being unwilling that she should lapse into one of her usual
silences, I ventured to change the subject from myself to her.

"'Miss Cumberland,' I said, 'I remark with much pleasure that the anxiety which has recently
depressed you seems now in some measure lessened. I presume Mr. Daniels will be successful
in his journey, though what the return of Mr. Daniels accompanied by Mr. Barry can accomplish,
is, I confess, beyond my computation. Yet you are happier in the prospect of Mr. Barry's return?'

"I asked this question with a falling heart, though I remain ignorant of the cause to which
I can attribute my sudden depression. Still more mysterious was the delight which I felt when
the girl shook her head slowly and answered: 'Even if he comes, it will mean nothing.'

"I said: 'Then let us intercept him and send him back!'

"She cried out, as if I had hurt her: 'No, no, no!' and twisted her fingers together in pain.
She added at once: 'What of poor Dad?'

"'Your father,' I confessed, 'had for the moment slipped my mind.'

"It seemed to me, however, that it was not wholly on her father's account that she was grieved.
She wished Mr. Barry to return, and yet she dreaded his coming. It was most mysterious. However,
I had started Miss Cumberland thinking. She stopped eating and began to stare before her. Presently
she said: 'It is strange that we don't hear from Buck. What can have held him so long?'

"I regretted extremely that I had introduced the topic and cast about in my mind for another,
but could not find one. I then expressed regret that I had revived her worries, but received
in reply a smile in which there was no life: the very colour had died out from her cheeks.
And she sat during the rest of the meal without speaking a word.

"Afterwards I went in with her to see Mr. Cumberland. His condition was not materially changed.
The marvel of it grows upon me more and more. It is a freak which defies medical science. There
lies a man at the point of dissolution. His body has died of old age, and yet the life principle
remains. He does not eat--at least, the nourishment he takes is wholely negligible. But he
still has energy. To be sure, he rarely moves about and his body remains practically inert.
But we must never forget that the mind is a muscle and calls for continual rebuilding. And
the mind of Mr. Cumberland is never inactive. It works ceaselessly. It will not permit him
to sleep. For three days, now, as far as I can tell, he has not closed his eyes. It might be
assumed that he is in a state of trance, but by a series of careful experiments, I have ascertained
that he is constantly thinking in the most vigourous fashion.

"What does it mean? There is in the man a flame-like quality; something is burning in him every
instant. But on what does the flame feed? I know that material cannot be created and that energy
means dissolution of matter: but why does not the life of Joseph Cumberland dissolve?

"The subject possesses me. I dare not ponder it too steadily or my brain begins to whirl. I
make no progress towards any reasonable solution. I only feel that I am living in the presence
of an astounding mystery.

"Strange thoughts possess me. What is the fire that burns but does not consume Joe Cumberland?
What is the thing in the wandering Dan Barry which Kate Cumberland fears and yet waits for?
Why was it that Daniels trembled with dread when he started out to find a man who, by his own
profession, he holds to be his best friend?

"You see how the mystery assumes shape? It is before me. It is in my hand. And yet I cannot
grasp its elements.

"The story of a man, a horse, and a dog. What is the story?

"To-day I wandered about the great corrals and came to one which was bounded by a fence of
extraordinary height. It was a small corral, but all the posts were of great size, and the
rails were as large as ordinary posts. I inquired what strange beasts could be kept in such
a pen, and the man-of-all-work of whom I asked replied: 'That's Satan's corral.'

"I guessed at some odd story. 'The devil?' I cried, 'Do they fence the devil in a corral?'

"'Oh, ay,' said the fellow, 'he's a devil, right enough. If we'd let him run with the other
hosses he'd have cut 'em to ribbons. That's what kind of a devil he is!'

"A story of a man, a horse, and a dog. I think I have seen the great chain which bound the
dog. Was that the place where they kept the horse?

"And, if so, what bonds are used for the man? And what sort of man can he be? One of gigantic
size, no doubt, to mate his horse and his dog. A fierce and intractable nature, for otherwise
Kate Cumberland could not dread him. And yet a man of singular values, for all this place seems
to wait for his return. I catch the fire of expectancy. It eats into my flesh. Dreams haunt
me night and day. What will be the end?

"Now I am going down to see Mr. Cumberland again. I know what I shall see--the flickering of
the fire behind his eyes. The lightning glances, the gentle, rare voice, the wasted face; and
by him will be Kate Cumberland; and they both will seem to be listening, listening--for what?

"No more to-night. But, Loughburne, you should be here; I feel that the like of this has never
been upon the earth.

"Byrne."

CHAPTER XIX

SUSPENSE

He found them as he had expected, the girl beside the couch, and the old man prone upon it,
wrapped to the chin in a gaudy Navajo blanket. But to-night his eyes were closed, a most unusual
thing, and Byrne could look more closely at the aged face. For on occasions when the eyes were
wide, it was like looking into the throat of a searchlight to stare at the features--all was
blurred. He discovered now wrinkled and purple-stained lids under the deep shadow of the brows--and
eyes were so sunken that there seemed to be no pupils there. Over the cheek bones the skin
was drawn so tightly that it shone, and the cheeks fell away into cadaverous hollows. But the
lips, beneath the shag of grey beard, were tightly compressed. No, this was not sleep. It carried,
as Byrne gazed, a connotation of swifter, fiercer thinking, than if the gaunt old man had stalked
the floor and poured forth a tirade of words.

The girl came to meet the doctor. She said: "Will you use a narcotic?"

"Why?" asked Byrne. "He seems more quiet than usual."

"Look more closely," she whispered.

And when he obeyed, he saw that the whole body of Joe Cumberland quivered like an aspen, continually.
So the finger of the duellist trembles on the trigger of his gun before he receives the signal
to fire--a suspense more terrible than the actual face of death.

"A narcotic?" she pleaded. "Something to give him just one moment of full relaxation?"

"I can't do it," said Byrne. "If his heart were a shade stronger, I should. But as it is, the
only thing that sustains him is the force of his will-power. Do you want me to unnerve the
very strength which keeps him alive?"

She shuddered.

"Do you mean that if he sleeps it will be--death?"

"I have told you before," said the doctor, "that there are phases of this case which I do not
understand. I predict nothing with certainty. But I very much fear that if your father falls
into a complete slumber he will never waken from it. Once let his brain cease functioning and
I fear that the heart will follow suit."

They stood on the farther side of the room and spoke in the softest of whispers, but now the
deep, calm voice of the old man broke in: "Doc, they ain't no use of worryin'. They ain't no
use of medicine. All I need is quiet."

"Do you want to be alone?" asked the girl.

"No, not so long as you don't make no noise. I can 'most hear something, but your whisperin'
shuts it off."

They obeyed him, with a glance at each other. And soon they caught the far off beat of a horse
in a rapid gallop.

"Is it that?" cried Kate, leaning forward and touching her father's hand. "Is that horse what
you hear?"

"No, no!" he answered impatiently. "That ain't what I hear. It ain't no hoss that I hear!"

The hoof-beats grew louder--stopped before the house--steps sounded loud and rattling on the
veranda--a door squeaked and slammed--and Buck Daniels stood before them. His hat was jammed
down so far that his eyes were almost buried in the shadow of the brim; the bandana at his
throat was twisted so that the knot lay over his right shoulder; he carried a heavy quirt in
a hand that trembled so that the long lash seemed alive; a thousand bits of foam had dried
upon his vest and stained it; the rowels of his spurs were caked and enmeshed with horsehair;
dust covered his face and sweat furrowed it, and a keen scent of horse-sweat passed from him
through the room. For a moment he stood at the door, bracing himself with legs spread wide
apart, and stared wildly about--then he reeled drunkenly across the room and fell into a chair,
sprawling at full length.

No one else moved. Joe Cumberland had turned his head; Kate stood with her hand at her throat;
the doctor had placed his hand behind his head, and there it stayed.

"Gimme smoke--quick!" said Buck Daniels. "Run out of Durham a thousan' years ago!"

Kate ran into the next room and returned instantly with papers and a fresh sack of tobacco.
On these materials Buck seized frantically, but his big fingers were shaking in a palsy, and
the papers tore, one after another, as soon as he started to roll his smoke. "God!" he cried,
in a burst of childish desperation, and collapsed again in the chair.

But Kate Cumberland picked up the papers and tobacco which he had dashed to the floor and rolled
a cigarette with deft fingers. She placed it between his lips and held the match by which he
lighted it. Once, twice, and again, he drew great breaths of smoke into his lungs, and then
he could open his eyes and look at them. They were not easy eyes to meet.

"You're hungry, Buck," she said. "I can see it at a glance. I'll have something for you in
an instant."

He stopped her with a gesture.

"I done it!" said Buck Daniels. "He's comin'!"

The doctor flashed his glance upon Kate Cumberland, for when she heard the words she turned
pale and her eyes and her lips framed a mute question; but Joe Cumberland drew in a long breath
and smiled.

"I knowed it!" he said softly.

The wind whistled somewhere in the house and it brought Buck Daniels leaping to his feet and
into the centre of the room.

"He's here!" he yelled. "God help me, where'll I go now! He's here!"

He had drawn his revolver and stood staring desperately about him as if he sought for a refuge
in the solid wall. Almost instantly he recovered himself, however, and dropped the gun back
into the holster.

"No, not yet," he said, more to himself than the others. "It ain't possible, even for Dan."

Kate Cumberland rallied herself, though her face was still white. She stepped to Buck and took
both his hands.

"You've been working yourself to death," she said gently. "Buck, you're hysterical. What have
you to fear from Dan? Isn't he your friend? Hasn't he proved it a thousand times?"

Her words threw him into a fresh frenzy.

"If he gets me, it's blood on your head, Kate. It was for you I done it."

"No, no, Buck. For Dan's sake alone. Isn't that enough?"

"For his sake?" Buck threw back his head and laughed--a crazy laughter. "He could rot in hell
for all of me. He could foller his wild geese around the world. Kate, it was for you!"

"Hush!" she pleaded. "Buck, dear!"

"Do I care who knows it? Not I! I got an hour--half an hour to live; and while I live the whole
damned world can know I love you, Kate, from your spurs to the blue of your eyes. For your
sake I brung him, and for your sake I'll fight him, damn him, in spite----"

The wind wailed again, far off, and Buck Daniels cowered back against the wall. He had drawn
Kate with him, and he now kept her before him, towards the door.

He began to whisper, swiftly, with a horrible tremble in his voice: "Stand between me, Kate.
Stand between me and him. Talk for me, Kate. Will you talk for me?" He drew himself up and
caught a long, shuddering breath. "What have I been doin'? What have I been ravin' about?"

He looked about as if he saw the others for the first time.

"Sit here, Buck," said Kate, with perfect quiet. "Give me your hat. There's nothing to fear.
Now tell us."

"A whole day and a whole night," he said, "I been riding with the fear of him behind me. Kate,
I ain't myself, and if I been sayin' things----"

"No matter. Only tell me how you made him follow you."

Buck Daniels swept his knuckles across his forehead, as though to rub out a horrible memory.

"Kate," he said in a voice which was hardly more than a whisper, "why did he follow Jim Silent?"

The doctor slipped into a chair opposite Buck Daniels and watched him with unbelieving eyes.
When he had last seen Buck the man had seemed an army in himself; but now a shivering, unmanned
coward sat before him. Byrne glanced at Kate Cumberland for explanation of the mysterious change.
She, also, was transformed with horror, and she stared at Buck Daniels as at one already among
the dead.

"Buck, you didn't--strike him?"

Buck Daniels nodded jerkily.

"I'll try to tell you straight from the beginning. I found Dan in Brownsville. I begged him
to come back with me, but he wouldn't stir. This was why: A gunman had come to the town lookin'
for trouble, and when he run acrost Dan he found plenty of it. No, don't look like that, Kate;
it was self-defense, pure and simple--they didn't even arrest Dan for it. But this dyin' man's
brother, Mac Strann, come down from the hills and sat beside Jerry Strann waitin' for him to
go west before he started out to clean up on Dan. Yesterday evenin' Jerry was near dead and
everybody in Brownsville was waitin' to see what would happen, because Dan wouldn't budge till
Mac Strann had had his chance to get back at him. So I sent a feller ahead to fix a relay of
hosses to Elkhead, because I made up my mind I was going to make Dan Barry chase me out of
that town. I walked into the saloon where Dan was sittin'--braidin' a little horsehair strand--my
God, Kate, think of him sittin' there doin' that with a hundred fellers standin' about waitin'
for him to kill or be killed! I went up to him. I picked a fight, and then I slapped him--in
the face."

The sweat started on Daniels' forehead at the thought.

"But you're still alive!" cried Kate Cumberland. "Had you handled his gun first?"

"No. As soon as I hit him I turned my back to him and took a couple of steps away from him."

"Oh, Buck, Buck!" she cried, her face lighting. "You knew he wouldn't shoot you in the back!"

"I didn't know nothin'. I couldn't even think--and my body was numb as a dead man's all below
the hips. There I stood like I was chained to the floor--you know how it is in a nightmare
when something chases you and you can't run? That was the way with me."

"Buck! And he was sitting behind you--while you stood there?"

"Ay, sitting there with my death sittin' on his trigger finger. But I knowed that if I showed
the white feather, if I let him see me shake, he'd be out of his chair and on top of me. No
gun--he don't need nothin' but his hands--and what was in front of my eyes was a death like--like
Jim Silent's!"

He squinted his eyes close and groaned. Once more he roused himself.

"But I couldn't move a foot without my knees bucklin', so I takes out my makin's and rolls
a cigarette. And while I was doin' it I was prayin' that my strength would come back to me
before he come back to himself--and started!"

"It was surprise that held him, Buck. To think of you striking him--you who have saved his
life and fought for him like a blood-brother. Oh, Buck, of all the men in the world you're
the bravest and the noblest!"

"They ain't nothin' in that brand of talk," growled Buck, reddening. "Anyway, at last I started
for the door. It wasn't farther away than from here to the wall. Outside was my hoss, and a
chance for livin'. But that door was a thousand years away, and a thousand times while I walked
towards it I felt Dan's gun click and bang behind me and felt the lead go tearin' through me.
And I didn't dare to hurry, because I knew that might wake Dan up. So finally I got to the
doors and just as they was swingin' to behind me, I heard a sort of a moan behind me----"

"From Dan!" whispered the white-faced girl. "I know--a sort of a stifled cry when he's angered!
Oh, Buck."

"My first step took me ten yards from that door," reminisced Buck Daniels, "and my next step
landed me in the saddle, and I dug them spurs clean into the insides of Long Bess. She started
like a watch-spring uncoilin', and as she spurts down the streets I leans clean over to her
mane and looks back and there I seen Dan standin' in the door with his gun in his hand and
the wind blowin' his hair. But he didn't shoot, because the next second I was swallowed up
in the dark and couldn't see him no more."

"But it was no use!" cried the girl. "With Black Bart to trail you and with Satan to carry
him, he overtook you--and then----"

"He didn't," said Buck Daniels. "I'd fixed things so's he couldn't get started with Satan for
some time. And before he could have Satan on my trail I'd put a long stretch behind me because
Long Bess was racin' every step. The lay of the land was with me. It was pretty level, and
on level goin' Long Bess is almost as fast as Satan; but on rocky goin' Satan is like a goat--nothin'
stops him! And I was ridin' Long Bess like to bust her heart, straight towards McCauley's.
We wasn't more'n a mile away when I thought--the wind was behind me, you see--that I heard
a sort of far off whistling down the wind! My God!"

He could not go on for a moment, and Kate Cumberland sat with parted lips, twisting her fingers
together and then tearing them apart once more.

"Well, that mile was the worst in my life. I thought maybe the man I'd sent on ahead hadn't
been able to leave me a relay at McCauley's, and if he hadn't I knew I'd die somewhere in the
hills beyond. And they looked as black as dead men, and all sort of grinnin' down at me.

"But when I got to McCauley's, there stood a hoss right in front of the house. It didn't take
me two second to make the saddle-change. And then I was off agin!"

A sigh of relief came from Byrne and Kate.

"That hoss was a beauty. Not long-legged like Bess, nor half so fast, but he was jest right
for the hills. Climbed like a goat and didn't let up. Up and up we goes. The wind blows the
clouds away when we gets to the top of the climb and I looks down into the valley all white
in the moonlight. And across the valley I seen two little shadows slidin', smooth and steady.
It was Dan and Satan and Black Bart!"

"Buck!"

"My heart, it stood plumb still! I gives my hoss the spurs and we went down the next slope.
And I don't remember nothin' except that we got to the Circle K Bar after a million years,
'most, and when we got there the piebald flops on the ground--near dead. But I made the change
and started off agin, and that next hoss was even better than the piebald--a sure goer! When
he started I could tell by his gait what he was, and I looked up at the sky----"

He stopped, embarrassed.

"And thanked God, Buck?"

"Kate, I ain't ashamed if maybe I did. But since then I ain't seen or heard Dan, but all the
time I rode I was expecting to hear his whistle behind me, close up."

All the life died from her face.

"No, Buck, if he'd a followed all the way he would have caught you in spite of your relay.
No, I understand what happened. After a while he remembered that Mac Strann was waiting for
him back in Brownsville. And he left your trail to be taken up later and went back to Brownsville.
You didn't see him follow you after you left the Circle X Bar?"

"No. I didn't dare look back. But somehow I knew he was comin'."

She shook her head.

"He won't come, Buck. He'll go back to meet Mac Strann--and then----" She ran to the chair
of Buck swiftly and caught his hands: "What sort of a man is Mac Strann?"

But Buck smiled strangely up into her face.

"Does it make any difference," he said, "to Dan?"

She went slowly back to her place.

"No," she admitted, "no difference."

"If you came by relays for twenty-four hours," said the doctor, numbering his points upon accurate
fingertips, "it is humanly impossible that this man could have followed you very closely. It
will probably take him another day to arrive."

But here his glance fell upon old Joe Cumberland, and found the cattleman smiling faintly to
himself.

Buck Daniels was considering the last remark seriously.

"No," he said, "it ain't possible. Besides, what Kate says may be true. She ought to know--she
says he'll wait for Mac Strann. I didn't think of that; I thought I was savin' Dan from another--well,
what a damn fool I been!"

He unknotted his bandana and with it mopped his face to a semblance of cleanliness.

"It was the ridin' that done it," he explained, shame-faced. "You put a man on a hoss for a
certain time, and after a while he gets so he can't think. They no longer believed that
all was lost, they surged again the absolute confidence that understand down there gradually, when
everything went to him alone, threw them on the other side. She felt those showers of happiness,
which had reluctantly yielded to her because they like a club came on, now in turn, slow trains
moved in with her.

She danced himself into a brilliant religious faith, erschimmern she made, but still remained
the face of Franz (but they did not see it, only saw the change to
which they believed) cold and hard.

An overwhelming air pushed across the square, the same waves encountered by the rush of people
against the walls of the booths. All the barracks had their own orchestras today, which ineinanderwirrten.
Children balloons rose into the air.

The sharp rattle of the shooting, the tooting of Roundabouts and the shouts drowned out the Geblitz
the revolver and the stomping and whistling the machine

Fifis eyes shining, begging, were great and told everything she knew
from the dull dawn of a meadow that hatched somewhere in her brain
from childhood until the love for him, the Good.

They called for forgiveness, were proud of in his understanding,
she seemed to see much shine, and thanked him.

But he did not understand.

Her legs were moving faster and faster in curved bow, her hands seemed to smooth something They
went on dancing. Her eyes were always soothing, her face became more transparent and less,
the legs had reached a speed of the largest ecstasy without her seemed to remember something.
Then she slowly fell into a dull rhythm, the eyes shone unearthly, a faint smile played thanks
for his kindness to his still motionless face, in the they looked in many miracles. . . and
so dancing, cleared and a strange power unit exciting, the short, a second, distributed over the place,
extinguishing them, while the tubes the steam engine suddenly silent
columns white steam against the sky met and a big house behind the
space as light from a radiation powerful reason of the darkness torn
flared. . . losch they are in themselves give off, dancing, collapsing,
out as a strange and good light.

   
   Yousouf
   

                      . . .

I think however, that, here as everywhere, love is like an art Riding and flute-playing.

The Marquis de Langle

The men stood in the vestibule and jingled softly with his sword. Their conversations were behaving
and expectant.

Then flew to the doors and Las Casas came from the Cabinet. They saw immediately be Face, which
dominates in the ramp up and then walked past them.

They saw pride in it, and bowed. One went up to him and said a few words. We only saw his bent
back. The other thanked him with the courtesy of an insane contempt and went on.

In the next room were larger groups.

He had to go through such a lane. All saluted him deeply. Las Casas thanked condescending,
because it was gentry.

Then he glided through a suite of rooms that were burning in red blankets and furniture and
where on both sides of images blurred by it crossed the mirror and halberds were accompanying
the king to the bathroom. . . and where nothing was as the lonely
halls his step.

And then broke away from a niche, a young man and went up to him with
a safe and general attitude.

"You have. . ., "He said.

"I have. . . Luis Quijada. .

".," Said Las Casas, and tore the paper role its left hand was. The young man shrugged softly
and bowed coldly and so involuntarily, as if he were on a ship.

He had striking blonde hair.

"I will," he said firmly and casually, "then equip its own sailors - - - at all hazards."

He pointed through the window toward the sea.

The evening had made silver the dark glass, and his head swam as
hard painted on parchment in the filling.

Las Casas smiled softly, his voice trembled a little in contempt by
sublime Wished success and went down the stairs, from which rose against
the dawn him.

He hurried to a palace, which lay in two gardens, and sat down and waited until it was reported. Then
he got up. It had grown cooler.

A star shone on the wall.

The maid went before him bluish on the gravel. They came through a thicket, and then remained
they stand and opened a door.

Las Casas came from the garden into a pavilion and walked through a boudoir in a bright Room,
stood in the middle of the bed. A white arm stretched out to him,
from the a long sleeve fell back.

He rushed out and kissed him. He fell to his knees and put his head next to the woman and his
cheeks burned after her over and made them red, although they are
not touched.

"You have permission. . .? "

"I made it. . ., "And his hands went to her hips and jerked back quickly.

"I 'm going tonight. . . "

They jumped on: "No - - - tomorrow"

Then she closed the too violent betrayal of the eyes with the lids and felt as if they now
only in reflection and clever conversations, smiling and quietly, "How could you make this
possible, Marques?

They were yesterday still complaining because you are the king's gifts squandered and Portuguese
Merchants were parting.

They now receive the order to chase the robbers, after each Heart craves. And since you want
to be well prepared already?

"

"I have three ships."

You betrayed again and gave up their eyes by looking at him. His hands were shaking, and the
distorted lips with pride:

"I mean the king that I sold the villages just to get money for this
expedition.

But his face remained cold.

I told him that I had done it, though I knew that his favor to follow, because he does not
love, that his gifts are fragmented and so on fly and stuff. . .

I would have done but because of my desire him to use during the
expedition, was stronger than the fear of his wrath.

Then the king took his pet weasel, and set it on the window in the sun and played and spoke to
him.

It seemed to me a moment as if I was not in the space - - so much was this movement the belief
in their own reality.

But then I became angry, Juana, and as I swam in the face of tears,
I turned and shouted to the horrible image of his grandfather, which
appealed to me and did not helpless as his calm, with violent words,
it's as if it was he.

Sire, I called, it is a pity for the souls of two merchants from Lisbon, to which I complained
am. Because I let them kill only to be accused and thus come under your eyes, what else I could
not because your mad at me waiting for the villages. For my petitions
are not read.

It is a pity, because my words seem empty as a program written to be.

The king said, "And if I do not permit them. . . - I said: Then I do it on the Way out that
you accept me as a brigand. I'm starting Yousouf. . . and even - Against you, sire.

He looked at me, for the first time and smiled: Again, you had my money for the team-members
necessary. takes your reckless honesty yourself this

I told him that I had the money for the villages, but because he knew
how small it was, He smiled again.

Since the pain forced me to my lips - and it screamed in my chest
like a sword in battle - That I was pointing my neck and cried to
him that I knew that after his law had expired, but I'll tell him
yet, that I had three ships, equipped in Spanish District of Bruges,
built in Barcelona, ​​Santa Maria, Coruña. . .

I credit the last in my name taken, plundered the dungeon of the Dominican slaves after that I take
the Albaycin searched for nights in Granada and in the taverns and
streets all decried ripped out what was in my fists and was representative.
. .

Pimp, Arab sailors, three gigantic priest. . . and that I would take
the night - either way.

Then he smiled again and said I will arrest you.

I could kill you, Sire, I cried, Juana, my head was burning, but I broke the sword only, and threw
him against the wall.

Ah, said the king, and let the beast and doubt: If you have courage.
. .

So I took the weasel and crushed it in his hand, slowly. . . while the Terrible the royal anger
towards me gushed.

I dropped the animal. But the king's arms were about his anger towards me and expressed the mean,
and he tore up the diploma, drawn on the Count of Oropesa, Luis Quijada, was, and let the sparks
fly through the window and stuck his seal on my - - - "

"You make me proud of you, Marques," Juana leaned back and gave her
moist eyes free, grazing on his body and defiant in the incandescence
of his face as between young and violently broken roses played.

Then she asked quickly, "Is White Luis Quijada"?

"He asked me."

"What you said to him, Marques?

"I told him little. They will tell him tomorrow that I do not know how I could for my Diploma,
to declare as brigands will, (for all mine now the pride of the hunt) when the expedition, which
he said, upgraded. The sea is at liberty. "

Juana's body stretched. They tore each other's hands at him, "the job will as to take back!
"He said no.

She pleaded: "Marques explain it as allowed to kill, as Brigand Then swelled Las! Casas' face, the body
wall, and aufzischend he stamped his foot on the ground and asked her haughty and contemptuous,
not to joke and in this sense the humiliation of to require him to Luis Quijada for value
held to fear his rivalry. And he moved his open hand to the side as if he proposed to a fly.

Juana
said coolly with his head down, "I will not adjust the contract. But just for the not because
I am the Count of Oropesa today never look at me. "

Las Casas, however, fell to his knees and rolled over next to her bed and forced her until they
conceded that traffic with the count as before. For his pride would thus have have been excited
if it had Quijada given the attention of hate.

She drew herself up, and he touched her breast while. His hand began
to sway violently subdued.

He stood up.

"I am going."

Juana bounces. The final of the decision confused and she turned them apart in desire and helplessness:
"No. . . Tomorrow - "

Her limbs rustled under the thin blanket. As they ascended, he saw only the intimate their Form,
the pressure of the body on the pillow - and then he smelled it. He was bent, but he forced back,
and they only smelled, saw nothing, had no ear and breathed with swollen Nostrils.

I have never felt the scent of her body, it was him.

He stressed the brain along dark and sweet.

"Tomorrow -" he gritted, for even the vocal cords were flooded with blood. And he put his head next
to hers hot and tore him away, staggering, and laid him down again
and hardness and boyish contrary to each other by their faces.

Then he pulled himself up. Juana grabbed his neck and pulled him down again: "Why - you. . .
today? "She stuck it out and burning in shame.

It was half and half was crouched in the corner of the bed. She took his head, so that their
elbows were obliquely upward and her fingers under his chin touched with the hands in space to
cool the temples were up. Now only the circles of the faces was another and lying from eye to eye.

At
last she stammered out what members shouted their long already, "You
should stay, Marques . . . here - - "and trembled.

He escaped violent as their hands and roused by a wave and admit he threw himself hurries on
his knees, his head burrowed into her body and pressed his dry lips in a string Kiss of the body
up to the neck on the thin batiste.

"Corazon,". . . she stammered.

                                And again: "Corazon". . . with devoted lips.

His Las Casas had his hands on his back and hit each other with terrible effort cramped together.

His
mouth stretched in all the agonies and halbzerfressenen of kisses words he said: "No," and many
times!. "No," And when he was calmer, he took it into the consciousness that he love her and
that she loved him and that he always wanted to know, but still only
see.

But He hated the knowledge, and his gaze collided with the wall and got no further, and his Head was
filled with hard blood and he told her that this was not enough to him. "I have Thirst for
you, but the flying and screaming goes far in my blood about it. "And he cried and bit through
the thin fabric of her shirt.

He stammered, harassed by his fire after this act, which was finally prepared, and as he spoke,
flashed the dawning marine and fleet before his eyes and sped in
bright red circles of him: "I want chase the Bassa not just hang up,
stalling because he caught my brother, our ships ate and Isabella,
who is a cousin, disgraced and his men left for two weeks.

Since I can see, I see him. unpacked since my brain thought, I think of him. I know each phase
of the fight, he may be in front of Venice, at Cadiz, in Morocco. . . I know how fired in advance
with the smallest variation of the moment. There is no place where I did not the dream has already
been pushed down. My thoughts have circled him so much that I every scar on his know that I know
of him more like me. The name Bassa Yousouf makes me blind. - - I'm going tonight. "

He was on cold. Her hand played on his hair. She left him because she understood the Hot in
him and that she did not fully embraced, but she knew that he loved her, and she was proud
when he tore himself and did not take it and left it burning.

In the boudoir slept the chambermaid. He endowed with gold, as he came from a night of love.

The
night was still low over the gardens, even a little pressed of jasmine, but the moon, was
almost round, made the port light and a dull twilight hung between
the masts.

At his call a Barchette came out of the shadow of a wall, took it and landed in the dark, the
giant was a galley. He climbed on the back deck, flag high rushing someone shot a gun in the silence.
Buy men raced across the bridge and struck with long Rods, the slaves awake, chains rattled,
the front deck, assembled dark pile behind to the chair on the rotbeschlagenen Poppa flashed
the officers.

sat on either side of forty six of benches on each oar two hundred and forty slaves. Las Casas
took a few steps ahead to the sixth row, and all heads were against him addressed. The last and
the masses of soldiers on the Proda he recognized only in the moon
like white Bow and stains.

Like a swarm of bees burning sparkled bloodshot hundreds Eyes around him. He screamed at her:

"We
will hunt the Bassa, you bastards! In addition I have bought you. That you know. You will have
good food and wine on Sundays.

But her last blood squirts out the nails. So this is identified. - - You shall have even more:
In the evening on which the Pasha is caught if every free.

Everyone gets one thousand Maravedis. Grins not! There's more. You get Dresses of wool of Murcia,
which is red inside. I give you free the officers to exert themselves, when I fall and they will
stop. - - - "

He raised his eyes to heaven. For the dull silence smoldering beneath
him. The eyes of the slaves had become as red, when hundreds of lights
were on the benches.

"I want every two women spend Yousouf Bassas
harem. A brown and a light. On the same evening. . . - "

Las Casas
resigned. The chains to rest. Grunting sounds cheered up. Screams
tore is going on. One reared up and barked like a dog. At the very
end, lifted whole series and fell back, shining like fish in water.
Many knelt and shouted with the chained Waving his arms to the head
or vital to the bridge, he stepped on.

Three whistles. A few High
Standards rushed. A large Fanale fell over the Poppa. The front deck
dissolved heavy cannon. Five hundred threw back with outstretched
Arms withdrew from it, rowing through the foaming water. Like a small
black tongue jumped the galley from the mouth of the harbor in the
light blue and yellow band, which over the water lay and Horizont
was. Left and right by two tongues met.

Of the three front deck blew
it: Benedito Dioz sea.

The sun rose.

* * *

The ships went first
to Genoa. They arrived one evening. A schooner was docked at them.
A man brought news, and they drove back into the night. The next day
began them a few Dutch sailors who were in the wind. They had beads,
silk and Oranges. They sold the ships in San Sebastian.

"We will
Yousouf turban set on the mast and at night it" planting of the royal
garden, Las Casas said to his officers, and his face twitched, his
hands with the best pearls played, which he had tied to a chain, and
by his thoughts about the Juana went neck.

In the evening, they blew
horns and teeth on the Proda. Cried one of the basket and told something.
It was a whale herd that was playing.

At noon the next day they met
a flotilla with truncated poles. The crew was missing; Only some maimed
squatted on the yards and cut faces. They were in shock become insane.
Their charge was a Florentine and Lombard brocade hats. Three days
ago they had been attacked. "Hui," cried one, riding on a naked ram-Gallion,
always: - - "The Weiberchen" and peeling with a nail on the horn.
Was allowed to drive them on. It was on the track. At noon there was
a fire near the ammunition.

They drove along the coast of Tunis.
The evening was calm and there was no spoon wind. The oars were running
slowly and almost noiselessly. Las Casas was sitting in his chair
and felt the vast silence and the boundless blue sea, swam to the
sun. He wanted his Thoughts out of it, but it laid over him. He ordered
to make music, the officers warned. But he did fire the pieces and
stir with eighty oars the sea. But the whole unleashed rage was like
the hopping of a ripple at the monster about him, his Silence him
with a thousand voices: Juana! yelled.

So he let the thought go,
you send the chain and eliminated them from his belt and threw them
into the sea, that they do not compel his thoughts.

Half an hour
later they came to the Zaffarin Islands. Immediately reported it from
above: "Two Galleons. "Las Casas even climbed high, protected the
eyes. There were Mudjaren and Arabs, rowed the terrible. He rushed
down. His eyes shot to the slaves. He cried foaming, and the rudder
broke. The acceleration was racing his voice that even the Clock-sang.
They came closer. Already dissolved the front guns. But they are not
met. The galleys had arrived already so thick that the soldiers began
to fire in the small vessels other, the hooks were ready. Since waving
the galleons, a projection swallowed them. The rearmost hoisted a
flag. - - - - - - -: Black, a golden arm with a sword and a skull
- - - the flag of the main vessels Yousouf.

Las Casas was pale and
controlled. He chose a large Arab and had him executed (He wanted
to force them to drive more), that his blood in a thin channel to
the other Slaves ran between the feet.

He watched her carefully during
the operation. But it seemed not an expression of their Dullness filed
off faces.

At night they umruderten the archipelago. Continually
signals went back and forth. On the beach two torches ran by each
other in spiral-like bends. shot from the middle of an island intervals
in high-white fire. A deep gong barked for a while over the water.

Las
Casas was beaten white and the teeth on the Poppa. could in the darkness
he did not land.

At the farther side of the wall was the glitter of metal--the latch of a door opening in the
wooden wall. Mac Strann set it ajar and Haw-Haw peered in over the big man's shoulder. He saw
first a vague and formless glimmer. Then he made out a black horse lying down in the centre
of a box stall. The animal plunged at once to its feet, and crowding as far as possible away
against the wall, turned its head and stared at them with flashing eyes.

"It's him!" whispered Haw-Haw. "It's Barry's black. They ain't another hoss like him on the
range. An' the wolf--thank God!--ain't with him."

But Mac Strann closed the door of the stall, frowning thoughtfully, and thought on the face
of Strann was a convulsion of pain. He dropped the second match to his feet, where it ignited
a wisp of straw that sent up a puff of light.

"Ah-h!" drawled Mac Strann. "The wolf ain't here, but we'll soon have him here. And the thing
that brings him here will get rid of the black hoss."

"Are you goin' to steal the hoss?"

"Steal him? He couldn't carry me two mile, a skinny hoss like that. But if Barry ever gets
away agin on that hoss I ain't never goin' to catch him. That hoss has got to die."

Haw-Haw Langley caught his breath with a harsh gurgle. For men of the mountain-desert sometimes
fall very low indeed, but in their lowest moments it is easier for him to kill a man than a
horse. There is the story, for instance, of the cattleman who saw the bull-fight in Juarez,
and when the bull gored the first horse the cowpuncher rose in the crowd and sent a bullet
through the picador to square the deal. So Haw-Haw sighed.

"Mac," he whispered, "has it got to be done? Ain't there any other way? I've seen that hoss.
When the sun hits him it sets him on fire, he's that sleek. And his legs is like drawn-iron,
they're that fine. And he's got a head that's finer than a man's head, Mac."

"I've seen him close enough," answered Mac Strann grimly. "An' I've follered him for a day
and a half, damn near. S'pose Barry finds out I'm on his trail; s'pose he won't foller the
wolf when the wolf tries to lead him to me. S'pose he gets on this hoss and cuts away? Can
I foller the wind, Haw-Haw? This hoss has got to die!"

From the manger he threw out several armfuls of hay, wrenched down from behind the manger several
light boards, and tossed them on the hay. He lighted a match and was approaching the small
flame to the pile of inflammables when Haw-Haw Langley cried softly: "Hark, Mac!"

The big man instantly extinguished the match. For a moment they could distinguish nothing,
but then they heard the sharp, high chorus of the wild geese flying north. Haw-Haw Langley
snickered apologetically.

"That was what I heard a minute ago!" he said. "And it sounded like voices comin'."

A snarl of contempt from Mac Strann; then he scratched another match and at once the flame
licked up the side of the hay and cast a long arm up the wooden wall.

"Out of this quick!" commanded Mac Strann, and they started hastily down the barn towards the
door. The fire behind them, after the puff of flame from the hay, had died away to a ghastly
and irregular glow with the crackle of the slowly catching wood. It gave small light to guide
them; only enough, indeed, to deceive the eye. The posts of the stalls grew into vast, shadowy
images; the irregularities of the floor became high places and pits alternately. But when they
were half way to the door Haw-Haw Langley saw a form too grim to be a shadow, blocking their
path. It was merely a blacker shape among the shades, but Haw-Haw was aware of the two shining
eyes, and stopped short in his tracks.

"The wolf!" he whispered to Mac Strann. "Mac, what're we goin' to do?"

The other had not time to answer, for the shadow at the door of the barn now leaped towards
them, silently, without growl or yelp or snarl. As if to guide the battle, the kindling wood
behind them now ignited and sent up a yellow burst of light. By it Haw-Haw Langley saw the
great beast clearly, and he leaped back behind the sheltering form of Mac Strann. As for Mac,
he did not move or flinch from the attack. His revolver was in his hand, levelled, and following
the swift course of Black Bart.

CHAPTER XXII

PATIENCE

There is one patience greater than the endurance of the cat at the hole of the mouse or the
wolf which waits for the moose to drop, and that is the patience of the thinking man; the measure
of the Hindoo's moveless contemplation of Nirvana is not in hours but in weeks or even in months.
Randall Byrne sat at his sentinel post with his hands folded and his grave eyes steadily fixed
before him, and for hour after hour he did not move. Though the wind rose, now and again, and
whistled through the upper chambers or mourned down the empty halls, Randall Byrne did not
stir so much as an eyelash in observance. Two things held him fascinated. One was the girl
who had passed up yonder stairs so wearily without a single backward glance at him; the other
was the silent battle which went on in the adjoining room. Now and then his imagination wandered
away to secondary pictures. He would see Barry meeting Buck Daniels, at last, and striking
him down as remorselessly as the hound strikes the hare; or he would see him riding back towards
Elkhead and catch a bright, sad vision of Kate Cumberland waving a careless adieu to him, and
then hear her singing carelessly as she turned away. Such pictures as these, however, came
up but rarely in the mind of Byrne. Mostly he thought of the stranger leaning over the body
of old Joe Cumberland, reviving him, storing him with electric energy, paying back, as it were,
some ancient debt. And he thought of the girl as she had turned at the landing place of the
stairs, her head fallen; and he thought of her lying in her bed, with her arm under the mass
of bright hair, trying to sleep, very tired, but remorsely held awake by that same power which
was bringing Joe Cumberland back from the verge of death.

It was all impossible. This thing could not be. It was really as bad as the yarn of the Frankenstein
monster. He considered how it would seem in print, backed by his most solemn asseverations,
and then he saw the faces of the men who associated with him, pale thoughtful faces striving
to conceal their smiles and their contempt. But always he came back, like the desperate hare
doubling on his course, upon the picture of Kate Cumberland there at the turning of the stairs,
and that bent, bright head which confessed defeat. The man had forgotten her. It made Byrne
open his eyes in incredulity even to imagine such a thing. The man had forgotten her! She was
no more to him than some withered hag he might ride past on the road.

His ear, subconsciously attentive to everything around him, caught a faint sound from the next
room. It was a regular noise. It had the rhythm of a quick footfall, but in its nature it was
more like the sound of a heavily beating pulse. Randall Byrne sat up in his chair. A faint
creaking attested that it was, indeed, a footfall traversing the room to and fro, steadily.

The stranger, then, no longer leaned over the couch of the old cattleman. He was walking up
and down the floor with that characteristic, softly padding step. Of what did he think as he
walked? It carried Byrne automatically out into the darkest night, with a wind in his face,
and the rhythm of a long striding horse carrying him on to a destination unknown.

Here he heard a soft scratching, repeated, at the door. When it came again he rose and opened
the door--at once the tall, shaggy dog slipped through the opening and glided past him. It
startled Byrne oddly to see the animal stealing away, as if Barry himself had been leaving.
He called to the beast, but he was met by a silent baring of white fangs that stopped him in
his tracks. The great dog was gone without a sound, and Byrne closed the door again without
casting a look inside. He was stupidly, foolishly afraid to look within.

After that the silence had a more vital meaning. No pictures crowded his brain. He was simply
keyed to a high point of expectancy, and therefore, when the door was opened silently, he sprang
up as if in acknowledgment of an alarm and faced Barry. The latter closed the door behind him
and glided after the big dog. He had almost crossed the big room when Byrne was able to speak.

"Mr. Barry!" he called.

The man hesitated.

"Mr. Barry," he repeated.

And Dan Barry turned. It was something like the act of the wolf the moment before; a swift
movement--a flash of the eyes in something like defiance.

"Mr. Barry, are you leaving us?"

"I'm going outside."

"Are you coming back?"

"I dunno."

A great joy swelled in the throat of Doctor Byrne. He felt like shouting in triumph; yet he
remembered once more how the girl had gone up the stairs, wearily, with fallen head. He decided
that he would do what he could to keep the stranger with them, and though Randall Byrne lived
to be a hundred he would never do a finer thing than what he attempted then. He stepped across
the room and stood before Barry, blocking the way.

"Sir," he said gravely, "if you go now, you will work a great sorrow in this house."

A glint of anger rose in the eyes of Barry.

"Joe Cumberland is sleepin' soun'," he answered. "He'll be a pile rested when he wakes up.
He don't need me no more."

"He's not the only one who needs you," said Byrne. "His daughter has been waiting impatiently
for your coming, sir."

The sharp glance of Barry wavered away.

"I'd kind of like to stay," he murmured, "but I got to go."

A dull voice called from the next room.

"It's Joe Cumberland," said Byrne. "You see, he is not sleeping!"

The brow of Barry clouded, and he turned gloomily back.

"Maybe I better stay," he agreed.

Yet before he made a step Byrne heard a far-away honking of the wild geese, that musical discord
carrying for uncounted miles through the windy air. The sound worked like magic on Barry. He
whirled back.

"I got to go," he repeated.

And yet Byrne blocked the way. It required more courage to do that than to do anything he had
ever attempted in his life. The sweat poured out from under his armpits as the stranger stepped
near; the blood rushed from his face as he stared into the eyes of Barry--eyes which now held
an uncanny glimmer of yellow light.

"Sir," said Byrne huskily, "you must not go! Listen! Old Cumberland is calling to you again!
Does that mean nothing? If you have some errand out in the night, let me go for you."

"Partner," said the soft voice of Barry, "stand aside. I got no time, I'm wanted!"

Every muscle of Randall Byrne's body was set to repulse the stranger in any effort to pass
through that door, and yet, mysteriously, against his will, he found himself standing to one
side, and saw the other slip through the open door.

"Dan! Are ye there?" called a louder voice from the room beyond.

There was no help for it. He, himself, must go back and face Joe Cumberland. With a lie, no
doubt. He would say that Dan had stepped out for a moment and would be back again. That might
put Cumberland safely to sleep. In the morning, to be sure, he would find out the deception--but
let every day bury its dead. Here was enough trouble for one night. He went slowly, but steadily
enough, towards the door of what had now become a fatal room to the doctor. In that room he
had seen his dearest doctrines cremated. Out of that room he had come bearing the ashes of
his hopes in his hands. Now he must go back once more to try to fill, with science, a gap of
which science could never take cognizance.

He lingered another instant with his hand on the door; then he cast it wide bravely enough
and stepped in. Joe Cumberland was sitting up on the edge of his couch. There was colour in
the old man's face. It almost seemed, to the incredulous eyes of Byrne, that the face was filled
out a trifle. Certainly the fire of the old cattleman's glance was less unearthly.

"Where's Dan?" he called. "Where'd he go?"

It was no longer the deep, controlled voice of the stoic; it was the almost whining complaint
of vital weakness.

"Is there anything I can do for you?" parried Byrne. "Anything you need or wish?"

"Him!" answered the old man explosively. "Damn it, I need Dan! Where is he? He was here. I
felt him here while I was sleepin'. where is he?"

"He has stepped out for an instant," answered Byrne smoothly. "He will be back shortly."

"He--has--stepped--out?" echoed the old man slowly. Then he rose to the full of his gaunt height.
His white hair, his triangle of beard and pointed moustache gave him a detached, a mediaeval
significance; a portrait by Van Dyck had stepped from its frame.

"Doc, you're lyin' to me! Where has he gone?"

A sudden, almost hysterical burst of emotion swept Doctor Byrne.

"Gone to heaven or hell!" he cried with startling violence. "Gone to follow the wind and the
wild geese--God knows where!"

Like a period to his sentence, a gun barked outside, there was a howl of demoniac pain and
rage, and then a scream that would tingle in the ear of Doctor Randall Byrne till his dying day.

CHAPTER XXIII

HOW MAC STRANN KEPT THE LAW

For when the dog sprang, Mac Strann fired, and the wolf was jerked up in the midst of his leap
by the tearing impact of the bullet. It was easy for Strann to dodge the beast, and the great
black body hurtled past him and struck heavily on the floor of the barn. It missed Mac Strann,
indeed, but it fell at the very feet of Haw-Haw Langley, and a splash of blood flirted across
his face. He was too terrified to shriek, but fell back against the wall of the barn, gasping.
There he saw Black Bart struggle to regain his feet, vainly, for both of the animal's forelegs
seemed paralyzed. Now the yellow light of the fire rose brightly, and by it Haw-Haw marked
the terrible eyes and the lolling, slavering tongue of the great beast, and the fangs like
ivory daggers. It could not regain its feet, but it thrust itself forward by convulsive efforts
of the hind legs towards Mac Strann.

Haw-Haw Langley stared for a single instant in white faced fear, but when he realised that
Black Bart was helpless as a toothless old dog, the tall cowpuncher, twisted his lean fingers
with a silent joy. Once more Bart pushed himself towards Mac Strann, and then Haw-Haw Langley
stepped forward, and with all the force of his long leg smashed his heavy riding boot into
the face of the dog. Black Bart toppled back against the base of the manger, struggled vainly
to regain his poise, and it was then that he pointed his nose up, and wailed like a lost soul,
wailed with the fury of impotent hate. Mac Strann caught Haw-Haw by the arm and dragged him
back towards the door.

"I don't want to kill the dog," he repeated. "Get out of here, Haw-Haw. Barry'll be comin'
any minute."

He could have used no sharper spur to urge on the laggard. Haw-Haw Langley raced out of the
barn a full stride before Mac Strann. They hurried together to the little rise of ground behind
which they had left their horses, and as they ran the scream which had curdled the blood of
Randall Byrne rang through the night. In a thousand years he could never have guessed from
what that yell issued; his nearest surmise would have been a score of men screaming in unison
under the torture. But Mac Strann and Haw-Haw Langley knew the sound well enough.

When they mounted their saddles they could look over the top of the little hill and observe
everything easily without being seen; for the hill-top commanded a range of the corrals and
a view of the fronts of the barns and sheds which opened upon the fenced enclosures. The largest
and longest of these buildings was now plainly visible, for a long arm of fire reached above
the roof on one side of the low shed and by this growing light the other barns, the glimmering-eyed
horses and cattle of the corrals, the trees about the house, the house itself, were in turn
visible, though vaguely, and at times, as the flame lapsed, all were lost in a flood of swift
darkness. Once more that unhuman shriek echoed from hill to hill and from building to building.
It was Satan in his box stall. The flames were eating through the partition, and the stallion
was mad with fear.

Lights flashed, here and there, in the big ranch house; and from the bunk-house on the farther
side of the corrals rose a volley of curses and yells of dismay. The cattle began milling blindly,
bellowing and stamping, and the horses ranged at a mad gallop back and forth across their corrals,
wild-eyed with terror. It was like the tumult of a battle, and sharper than a trumpet a new
sound cut through the din--it was a short, high whistle, twice repeated. An answer came from
the burning barn--the long, strong neighing of the stallion.

"D'ye hear?" muttered Mac Strann. "It's the hoss talkin' to his master!"

"And there he comes!" said Haw-Haw Langley. "Runnin' like the wind!"

The flame, picked up by the gale, tore for itself a wider breathing space through the roof
and sent up an audibly roaring column of blinding red. By that light, Mac Strann, following
Haw-Haw's directing arm, saw a lithe figure vault over the fence on the farther side of the
corral and dart forward among the milling cattle.

Now, when cattle begin to mill it takes a brave man on a brave, well-trained horse to trust
his chances in the midst of that ocean of tossing horns. But this man ventured it on foot.
Mac Strann could follow him easily, for the man's hat was off, and the firelight glittered
on his black hair. That glimmering head darted here and there among the circling cattle. Now
it was lost, swamped, to all appearances, under a score of trampling hooves. Again it reappeared
on the further side. Mac Strann could see the runner in a comparatively open space, racing
like a trained sprinter, and he headed straight towards a wall of tossing horns. They were
long-horns, and one sway of those lowered heads could drive the hard, sharp point through and
through the body of a man. Yet straight at this impassable wall the stranger rushed, like a
warrior in his Berserker madness leaping naked upon a hedge of spears. At the verge of the
danger the man sprang high into the air. Two leaps, from back to back among the herd, and he
was across the thickest of danger, down once more on the ground, and dodging past the outskirts
of the bellowing cows. Over the nearer fence he vaulted and disappeared into the smoke which
vomitted from the mouth of the burning barn.

"God A'mighty," groaned Haw-Haw Langley, "can he get the hoss out?"

"It ain't possible," answered Mac Strann. "All hosses goes mad when they gets in a fire--even
when they sees a fire. Look at them fools over yonder in the corral."

Indeed, in the horse-corral a score of frantic animals were attempting to leap the high rails
in the direction of the burning barn. Their stamping and snorting came volleying up the hill
to the watchers.

"All hosses goes mad," concluded Mac Strann, "an' Barry'll get tramped under the feet of his
own hoss even if he gets to the stall--which he won't. Look there!"

Out of the rush of fire and smoke at the door of the barn Dan Barry stumbled, blindly, and
fell back upon the ground. Haw-Haw Langley began to twist his cold hands together in an ecstasy.

"The hoss is gone and the wolf is gone, and Barry is beat!" he chuckled to himself. "Mac, I
wouldn't of missed this for a ten days' ride. It's worth it. But see the gal and that new gent,
Mac!"

       *       *       *       *       *

For when the clamour arose outside the house, Buck Daniels had run to the window. For many
reasons he had not taken off his clothes this night, but had lain down on the bed and folded
his hands behind his head to wait. With the first outcry he was at the window and there he
saw the flames curling above the roof of the barn, and next, by that wild light, how Dan Barry
raced through the dangerous corral, and then he heard the shrill neighing of Satan, and saw
Dan disappear in the smoking door of the barn.

Fear drew Buck Daniels one way but a fine impulse drew him another. He turned away from the
window with a curse; he turned back to it with a curse, and then, muttering: "He went through
hell for me; and him and me together, we'll go through hell again!" he ran from the room and
thundered down the crazy stairs.

As he left the house he found Kate Cumberland, and they went on together, running without a
word to each other. Only, when he came beside her, she stopped short and flashed one glance
at him. By that glance he knew that she understood why he was there, and that she accepted
his sacrifice.

They hurried around the outer edge of the corrals, and as they approached the flaming barn
from one side the men from the bunk-house rushed up from the other. It was Buck Daniels who
reached Dan as the latter stumbled back from the door of the barn, surrounded by a following
cloud of smoke, and fell stumbling to the ground. And Buck raised him.

The girl was instantly beside them.

She had thrown on a white dressing gown when she rose from bed. It was girded high across her
breast, and over it showered her bright hair, flashing like liquid gold in growing light. She,
now, received the semi-conscious burden of Dan Barry, and Buck Daniels stepped forward, close
to the smoke. He began to shout directions which the two watchers behind the hill could not
hear, though they saw his long arms point and gesticulate and they could see his speaking lips.
But wild confusion was on the crowd of cowpunchers. They ran here and there. One or two brought
buckets of water and tossed the contents uselessly into the swirling, red-stained hell of smoke.
But most of them ran here and there, accomplishing nothing.

"An' all this come from one little match, Mac," cried Haw-Haw ecstatically at the ear of Mac
Strann. "All what we're seein'! Look at the gal, Mac! She's out of her wits! She's foolin'
about Barry, doin' no good."

A gust of smoke and fire must have met Barry face to face when he entered the barn, for he
seemed now as helpless as if he were under a strong narcotic influence. He leaned heavily back
into the arms of the girl, his head rolling wildly from side to side. Then, clearer than before,
dominating all the confusion of noise, and with a ringing, trumpet note of courage in it, the
black stallion neighed again from his burning stall. It had a magic effect upon Barry. He stood
up and tore himself from the arms of the girl. They saw her gesture and cry to the surrounding
men for help, and a dozen hands were stretched out to keep the madman from running again into
the fire. They might better have attempted to hold a wild horse with their naked hands. He
slipped and broke through their grips, and a second later had leaped into the inferno of smoke,
running bent close to the ground where the pure air, if there were any, was sure to be.

"The gal's sick!" said Haw-Haw Langley. "Look, Mac!"

And he began to laugh in that braying voice which had given him his nickname. Yet even in his
laughter his eyes were brightly observant; not a single detail of misery or grief was lost
upon him; he drank it in; he fed his famine-stricken soul upon it. Kate Cumberland had buried
her face in her arms; Buck Daniels, attempting to rush in after Dan Barry, had been caught
beneath the arms by Doctor Byrne and another and was now borne struggling back.

From the very heart of the burning barn the sharp single whistle burst and over the rolling
smoke and spring fire rose the answering neigh. A human voice could not have spoken more intelligibly:
"I wait in trust!"

After that neigh and whistle, a quiet fell over the group at the barn door. There was nothing
to do. There was not enough wind to blow the flames from this barn to one of the neighbouring
sheds; all they could do was to stand still and watch the progress of the conflagration.

The deep, thick voice of Mac Strann broke in: "Start prayin', Haw-Haw, that the hoss don't
kill Barry when he gets to him. Start prayin' that Barry is left for me to finish."

He must have meant his singular request more as a figure of speech than a real demand, but
an hysteria was upon Haw-Haw Langley. He stretched up his vast, gaunt arms to the dim spot
of red in the central heavens above the fire, and Haw-Haw prayed for the first and last time
in his life.

"O Lord, gimme this one favour. Bring Barry safe out of the barn. Bring him out even if you
got to bring the damned hoss with him. Bring him out and save him for Mac Strann to meet. And,
God A'mighty, let me be around somewhere's when they meet!"

This strange exhibition Mac Strann watched with a glowering eye.

"But it ain't possible," he said positively. "I been in fires. Barry can't live through the
fire; an' if he does, the hoss will finish him. It ain't possible for him to come out!"

From half the roof of the shed flames now poured, but presently a great shower of sparks rose
at the farther end of the barn, and then Haw-Haw heard the sound of a beating and crashing.

"Hei!" he screamed, "Barry's reached the black hoss and the black hoss is beating him into
the floor!"

"You fool!" answered Mac Strann calmly, "Barry has got a beam or something and he's smashing
down the burning partition of the box stall. That's what he's doing; listen!"

High over the fire, once again rose the neighing of the black horse, a sound of unspeakable
triumph.

"You're right," groaned Haw-Haw, downcast. "He's reached the hoss!"

He had hardly finished speaking when Mac Strann said: "Anyway, he'll never get out. This end
wall of the barn is fallin' in."

Indeed, the outer wall of the barn, nearest the door, was wavering in a great section and slowly
tottering in. Another moment or two it would crash to the floor and block the way of Dan Barry,
coming out, with a flaming ruin. Next the watchers saw a struggle among the group which watched.
Three men were struggling with Buck Daniels, but presently he wrenched his arms free, struck
down two men before him with swinging blows of his fists, and leaped into the smoke.

"He's gone nutty, like a crazy hoss with the sight of the fire," said Mac Strann quietly.

"He ain't! He ain't!" cried Haw-Haw Langley, wild with excitement. "He's holdin' back the burnin'
wall to keep the way clear, damn him!"

Indeed, the tottering wall, not having leaned to a great angle, was now pushed back by some
power from the inside of the barn and kept erect. Though now and again it swayed in, as though
the strength which held it was faltering under the strain.

Now the eyes of the watchers were called to the other end of the barn by a tremendous crashing.
The entire section of that part of the roof fell in, and a shower of sparks leaped up into
the heart of the sky, lighting the distant hills and drawing them near like watchers of the
horror of the night.

"That's the end," said Mac Strann. "Haw-Haw, they wasn't any good in your prayer."

"I ain't a professional prayin' man," answered Haw-Haw defensively, "but I done my best. If----"
He was cut short by a chorused cry from the watchers near the door of the barn, and then, through
the vomitted smoke and the fire, leaped the unsaddled body of Satan bearing on his back the
crouched figure of Dan Barry, and in the arms of Barry, limp, his head hanging down loosely,
was the body of the great black dog, Bart.

A fearful picture. The smoke swept following around the black stallion, and a great tongue
of flame licked hungrily after the trio. But the stallion stood with head erect, and ears flattened,
pawing the ground. With that cloud of destruction blowing him he stood like the charger which
the last survivor might ride through the ruin of the universe in the Twilight of the Gods.

At the same instant, another smoke-clad figure lunged from the door of the barn, his hands
outstretched as though he felt and fumbled his way through utter darkness. It was Buck Daniels,
and as he cleared the door the section of tottering wall which he had upheld to keep the way
clear for the Three, wavered, sagged, and then sank in thunder to the floor, and the whole
barn lay a flame-tossed mass of ruin.

The watchers had scattered before the plunge of Satan, but he came to a sliding halt, as if
his rider had borne heavily back upon the reins. Barry slipped from the stallion's back with
the wounded dog, and kneeled above the limp figure.

"It ain't the end," growled Mac Strann, "that hoss will go runnin' back into the fire. It ain't
hoss nature to keep from goin' mad at the sight of a fire!"

In answer to him, the black stallion whirled, raised his head high, and, with flaunting mane
and tail, neighed a ringing defiance at the rising flames. Then he turned back and nuzzled
the shoulder of his master, who was working with swift hands over the body of Black Bart.

"Anyway," snarled Haw-Haw Langley, "the damned wolf is dead."

"I dunno," said Mac Strann. "Maybe--maybe not. They's quite a pile that we dunno."

"If you want to get rid of the hoss," urged Haw-Haw, writhing in the glee of a new inspiration,
"now's the time for it, Mac. Get out your gun and pot the black. And why could I not bring myself to speak a word with Knight who was sitting next to her?
How could I envy him, that he touched the hem of her dress? Why I hated everyone, the only hit
one of her gracious looks? What made me burning hot, when her eyes lingered on me? - Friendship
is not this feeling when it's not love is, I'm mad! - But it is love, Adalbert to see how a
man a Passion defeated.

Defeat? as if this would be to defeat something. - As if it were already agreed that I loved
her! - It can, it should not be. I want with all my masculinity armor, it is one Adalbert,
he loves him, I have promised him, - a man, A knight must keep his promise and when to reason he
would go about it themselves.

       He hurried back to the castle, and was glad of this victory.

* * * * *

Emma had a few times, however, again approached the window without
being noticed by Löwenau.

You could see the beautiful man never without a certain sympathy, and this sympathy was very
soon the desire to: if that loved you! Without knowing it, she spun because this dream continues,
and the playful fancies connected with the question: do you love him?

She was frightened no longer on this question during the meal she had in these Ideas used to.
- Very quiet her heart began to answer this question in the affirmative, she had already loved
him before she thought the possibility of this love here, now it was only at this Love only
her consent. This was the first moment in which they have a kind of Joy felt that Adalbert was
not present at the castle, the memory of his love lived only very slightly in her soul, just like the
memory of yesterday's Supper the majestic sunrise. She felt that she is far from their Adalbert so
loved, I love them as they could, indeed, it began So on even to deny their feelings, it was
like she thought she now had only been her friend. The phenomenon was Löwenau's ever to be reflected
image of the shadow of indifference, from the love of the beloved Subject to the brightest light
draws forth. All the perfections of which they used to be on Adalbert admired, it was not equal
to more perfect Löwenau again and that nothing remained at the end as his faults, she had always
counted among its other benefits, and as one other also like to sue
you for his own mistakes, they believed in the fact that he did not
at least leave taken away from her, had to find proof that he had
never loved her. - In this Condition, it was very much calming, and
so she was finally convinced.

The true love the sensation of fine and coarse, lofty and low, the previously common People,
they often raises the generosity, the superior man falls down to the commons, and the very same
Song that lives on each instrument in other tones. Emma What else always with contempt looked
upon, had seemed to her now "important, liked the decorated Löwenau it is a large part more than
he would have fallen without her jewelry, she confessed to this feeling,
and decided turn to from now on more attention to their cleaning.

I saw them even the memory Adalbert to do a little more indifferent, because he had only been her
father's squire.

Löwenau just wanted to go through the large passage in the Assembly of the Knights, as Emma,
​​perhaps coincidentally, perhaps on purpose, because they see it had come back, stepped out
of the room.

You here, Miss? Löwenau called somewhat hastily.

She blushed, for she believed in these words, and in the way he spoke,
some unwillingness to see the knight, or the thought came that it
was because of him. - In order to go to the garden, she replied, adding
she wanted to jump over quickly. -

It flees me? said the knight.

You flee? Then you ought not be the knight Löwenau. -

They were both replaced a bow window and the glow of the evening flew
by kind Redness of the face of the girl. -

Madam, - began at the
Knights after a pause, the sun takes a gracious Kiss you goodbye to
you again tomorrow to awaken with a kiss. - To Your Face pale trembles
a fire certificate, you should consider a saint.

That you just not into temptation comes, worship me, Emma replied mischievously.

Löwenau.

And if I come now to the temptation? - Would you hear my prayer, beautiful Emma? -

Emma.

I would first have to know what you wanted to ask me. - You spoke
these words quietly and with a trembling voice, for she feared and
hoped much.

So I pray you, said Löwenau, not so fast to rush me into the garden.

Not more than that? Emma said quickly, and with a little anger about
their disappointment Expectation. -

Löwenau.

If you are so kind, madam, you shall tell me easily to a boisterous Please suggest.

Emma. What could you do more? -

Löwenau. You see and want? -

Emma. You speak in riddles.

Löwenau. That your heart would understand it!

Emma saw rigid to himself. Löwenau's eyes were rooted on her face, he trembled, a niegefühlte
sensation quivered through his body, as it tore him with chains,
to Emma, ​​he suddenly embraced her and spoke in a soft low voice:
Emma, ​​I love you! -

Dazed, he hung on her neck, Emma did not speak,
one put on his hands in hers, she pressed it in silence.

Do you love me? he exclaimed, as if waking from a dream. - A soft whisper, "Yes," only love audible,
flew to meet him.

His face fell to theirs, he pressed a burning kiss on her lips trembling,
- No thought, no feeling, no memory came before his mind, but that
he in his Keep arms, and even that they love him, he had forgotten.
-

Emma recovered first from her stupor, she pressed a kiss on his
lips, and then fled, trembling in her room, where they sank breathless
into a chair at once, as they were pursued by a monster.

       Löwenau stared after her until the last white Shimmer of her dress
disappeared, much longer his eye remained immobile at a point tacked
when he was a ghost encounter.

Finally he went into the hall where all the knights were still happy with the cups, and even
Friedrich and Konrad lost their sons had forgotten.

Löwenau walked like a dream, and answered every question only partially. - Friedrich believed
he was tired from the trip and the tournament and left him by a servant to his room . Lead The other
knight went out today. - Löwenau asleep, when his Fantasy raved tired, and had fought his passions
in exhaustion.

* * * * *

When he awoke in the morning, Adalbert and his promise was his first thought. Terrible joined
this memory up to him and warned him terribly, not through fortzuwandeln, he started to enter.
- But how it was possible to go backwards? He had confessed to her his love, and that they love
him in return. If not this confession of his lips were hatched, so he could fight against his passion
still, now but he and Emma would have made it an unhappy. - He gave himself and his Fate at last altogether
of the time, at least, he shifted all thinking, all decisions up to that hour in which he wanted
to continue with the father to her. - I know but still not sure that
they not tee off my father, it does not happen, now I can of course
also then act still to Adalbert. - These deceptions he calmed the
allegations, which he felt in the interior of his soul.

Emma and William were soon no longer foreign to the confidential you soon supplanted the foreign
stiff politeness, for Löwenau despised all restraint, all closing in himself, he thought it
befitting the man who always straight and act openly, any unaudited to distrust, to think of
every stranger the best, and to treat him as a friend. So Wilhelm was the friend of the world.
- Emma, ​​who had never left the castle of her father, that was almost
always dealt only with creatures of their imagination, nor had less
restraint; they spoke just as she was, adjustment barely knew by name,
and trust each open face.

He said, "now sometimes of Adalbert, and she confessed that she had never loved him. You believed
it now. - Löwenau was happy with that statement. - Both were in sometimes indispensable, and
gave the invitations Löwenau Friedrichs, since the other knights of the castle left, very
much heard.

If he was not with Emma, ​​he was himself a burden; any employment he was bored, and yet he
always moved the hour of one day to the other, in what he wanted to stop in Frederick to her,
for he felt in the Deception calmed down, he is still not acting against Adalbert.

Emma was now more amiable than ever, the slight grief for her Adalbert
had much of their Vivacity taken, it was now more of a silent, suffering
beauty that are so lovely adjacent to the stronger man and behind
his neck a shield against all storms the fate investigated.

Her new love had given her a soulful look, in which a nice fire burning.
- The fierce Löwenau she loved to worship, for it was his first love.
-

But at last he found it embarrassing that situation, he decided
today with you and Adalbert to keep accounting, still be with the
father to advertise.

He went to the old Friedrich, he thoughtfully in a chair in the hall was. - What do you think
knights? He was talking to him.

Friedrich. With me is unfortunately the time has come where I live only in memory can, the time
of the deeds is gone.

Löwenau. But you can not live in the future?

Friedrich.

In recollection, we learn more, only fools are in the future home. - If you apply all his wealth
to build up in that golden land of palaces, and a gust of wind tears it all down: where is then
flee the impoverished pilgrims? - About the Land of the future is
a thick fog, and often seems something a castle from a distance to
be, and when we get closer, it's an overhanging cliff in the next
moment throws down upon our heads. -

Löwenau.

You want to hope not, then?

Friedrich. Oh, yes, but the hope of those cheater, not to my daily society . Make The greatest
happiness seems small next to the picture, which held up our hope.

Löwenau. The hope for you, with the figure of Emma's, and such subsidiary
- -

Friedrich.

The better it is, the more have I to fear, and the more I love them,
depending more I lose to her.

Everything would now depart with her!

I wish nothing but happiness to them see, then I will be too.

Löwenau. Have you even thought no Eidam?

Friedrich.

He sleeps in Palestine, Conrad of Castle Rock, you have to have known
him - a other - oh I do not like to think of it! - A certain Adalbert
loved her, I suggested it from him, he would be here now, they would
be. -

Löwenau silent, and looked gloomily down before him.

A certain - Will you as no knight type of famous home? he asked at
last.

Friedrich. Who knows if they would be happy with such?

Löwenau. If he, if she loved him?

Friedrich.

Then would I consider myself a moment.

Löwenau was now fighting a hard battle, his generosity and his love struggled tenaciously with
each other, and often he would say the name Adalbert, but the name died on his lips at the thought
of Emma. - The love was victor. - Would you despise me as a son- Knight?

Friedrich. You? - If you serious?

Löwenau. Could you really trust me now joke?

       Friedrich. It is yours, if it loves you.

Löwenau.

For that I can be citizens. -

Friedrich.

Well I may at last hope to become a happy father, and I doubted already
on it, because you have to get used to doubt everything in this world,
what the happiness looks similar.

Löwenau. You are very sad today voted. -

Friedrich. I do not want to stay longer, my son-not have to believe that he was in me a grumpy father
receives.

The Knights were still talking together for a long, Friedrich was
very happy, finally went Löwenau late in a bedroom.

     

 She is mine! he exclaimed. - Indisputably mine. - "Now it is firmly
 decided. - You is mine, Adalbert! and should I about my life that I
 thank you, against you's Players must. The friendship die for love. She
 loves him not, and would be unhappy, and - for all the saints! - She does
 not deserve to be. It will also forget them, - or my life - recover an
 insignificant gift without them. Let him! I will defend it, for now it
 is Emma's property. The big contract with his conscience was soon adopted
 by the Complete passion, and their language he thought was the voice
 of impartial truth and fell asleep to happy dreams.
 
 * * * * *
                                                            

Emma! you are mine! your father got you promised me, my! I am yours! someone calling out as
Löwenau He was in Emma's room and rushed into her arms. - Now we
can not for the world from each other tear.

     

 
 Emma. I yours? did you? -
 
                                                            Löwenau.

Just something lacking our happiness and this word includes even more.

Emma. What could this be something?

Löwenau.

       Adalbert that all of you gives up his rights, so long as we have
to fear, that it occurs between our embraces, as long as we are only
half happy. - Emma, ​​I knows the place of residence, send him a Bothen
few words that tell him that you no longer love him, that he should
forget any thoughts of you that you were mine. - I beg of you, Emma.

Then we want to without any concerns of all the happiness of our Love left, then should not
fear us connect anxious close, then I will defiantly record over time, whether it is through
countless years in a position to weaken my love.

Emma was very easy to consent, even Löwenau sat down and wrote this letter:

Adalbert!

My promise is broken! right with the fate and not with me! I am innocent. - Angel of the temptation
and gave in playful their eternal happiness, I'm just a weak man,
like the Loss of your friendship punish my weakness. - Emma yours
no more, it is mine, I promised her father and love.

Adalbert not doubt she loves you not, she has never loved you. All your hopes are murdered by
me, murder me when you You have to take revenge, but their property you will make me never
disputed. Give it lost Adalbert, they can not forever yours be. I am the guardian of this treasure,
and whoever wants to obtain it, must kill me first. Löwenau.

Emma, ​​meanwhile, had written some words that she gave him.

He put it in his letter and sealed it.

Ritter,

Forget me, as I will remember you, remember me always as to a deceased friend, and I am the
fiancee of a knight and may call me no more so: Your Emma.

Löwenau gave the letters his servant Francis, who had accompanied
him to stone man.

This yet just rode away that day, so as soon as possible to arrive at the castle's Löwenau.

Friedrich
and Löwenau thought "now only to the marriage feast, which she quite brilliantly to decision
making. Emma was in the arms of her lover as happy as you put it on this may be the world.

*
* * * *

Adalbert lived during that time still under his fair hopes and expected Both the shaft of his daily
happiness. His futile waiting did not make him sad, just verdrüßlich, for this postponement,
the hope seemed the happy progress of the company to confirm. He often went out hunting, had
visited the beautiful areas in the vicinity and every night thought to returning home to find
a Bothen his friend.

He had returned from one of his walks, and stood leaning against a
beech tree, the cloud game to be considered in Abendroth, when he
saw in the distance a Reuter, who is the castle approached.

He soon recognized in him Franz, the squire's Löwenau. - He quickly rushed to the Question to him:
whether he had sent the knight. - Franz replied in the affirmative, and handed him the letter
Löwenau's. -

Adalbert's heart pounded as he looked at the letter and the words, he hesitated to vomit. - Unspeakable
happiness, or death to meet me jumping - yet, nor shall I hope I'm
still happy. - The sun had set, he went to his room, to read the letter
by the light of a candle.

That moment was his solemn, sacred Silence hung along the walls of the room, a cricket chirped softly,
a distant bell sounded over the hill. - He can dissolve the seal.

Emma's letter struck him first, he knew the hand and kissed the parchment. - He read - and turned
pale, - he read again and looked up with wild eyes wide open, all his thoughts strayed, he knew
only that he was miserable, cold and terrible seized him to that
conviction, what was his misery, was gone out of his soul.

Emma! he cried at last with a terrible voice, as his senses returned. - He dared to read again,
then he read the letter Löwenau's. - His eyes were closed, as blinded by too bright, he desperately
threw up his teeth and go cold and stiff as a corpse in the armchair.
- He had not expected.

He jumped up after a silence and shouted like a madman: A curse on
anyone involved in this Hour are happy!

Curse of all woes! - Yes, I curse myself, I swear I and her - her desperate o! coming towards
me on my breast and curse help me! Your Emma? Your Emma? - You're lying perjurer! thou hast
never known! -

I have no hope kept his word, no earthly bliss called me friend.

My life is a black fabric of misfortune, such as from an enemy, I will be pursued by misery by a
thousand torment it chases me into the jaws of death. All right, a tender Cruel father, I care a noble
friend is a monster - I give up hope, I give the fate of. A blind Ohngefähr rolls luck and
misfortune, - well, I will as act, as long as I can still act, - I want them, let them out
of their Hugs back to plummet, as they had touched the neck of a dragon scales. - I want not just
be unhappy, love, hate me, hate me now "is to make you happy.

Your Emma? - Leave your hand Could these words? The same hand that I so often the sweat of the fight
from the front, dried the same hand that was so often in the mine, and me assured of your love
- oh heaven! what a miserable thing to virtue, if umschaffen can
in a few weeks man so completely!

Sets out any bad guy anymore, he in a few days, perhaps a model for his judge! - Virtue? -
For me, no Virtue, not a god anymore, because they, the pledge for both, is lost to me.

He expressed crunched together Löwenaus letter, his breathing is hard pressed by his throat,
thousand talents were passed on to his chest. - His eyes fell on Emma's green belt, he had
always worn on his chest as a relic, he tore it down furiously.

The pledge their loyalty! their love! - - You will forget me. - I can never forget and why should
I do it too? - If I could forget it, I could once again smile - but
that I shall never return.

He stopped and leaned in a corner of the room, all was quiet as a funeral vault.

You have stolen my life, Emma said, he quietly as not to disturb the deep solitude; I'm going to
die soon and had lived in vain, I shall no one there, beyond accountability require only pity
I can give Red 'and answer - as Emma, ​​I put the terrible Judges
to you and to you William!

Your Emma! - If you had me at least the poor "you" left over - but nothing I should remain.
- Well, he added, with a terrible cold, and this band will I return to you.
He thought several times, and his friend Emma had just joking with
him in a cruel way want to give his love to the test, he thought he
had some in his rage Terms felt too strong, then he tried again to
be tormented in the letters and the to alleviate terrible sense -
but in vain! the cold, unfeeling letter remained the same, and his
pain was not relieved.

The Knights went through a terrible night,
he could not sleep, but not awake; thousand stood before his mind
the terrible door of insanity, he saw a Thousand Faces , Pass by him
soon with horror, now filled with joy, at one moment He was in the
arms of Emma's, everything was just a terrible dream, and he pressed
them to his heart, and the crackling of the letter, which he still
locked firmly in his hand held, he was awakened as if by magic out
of his gleeful drunkenness. Soon he was struggling with Löwenau life
and death and saw him fall to his tricks, and soon engulfed all about
it manufactures a wide desert emptiness, he stood with his pain alone
in the pigeon extinct Wilderness, enveloped by an endless night, spirits
went to distant thunder and weak Lightning split the enormous realm
of eternal bleakness.

He felt his strength waned considerably. God!
he cried, when I die that night would! without it yet to see one!
- My mind has died from my farewell Emma , Take I must, I must see
her.

He waited anxiously for the dawn of the morning, the night seemed
mockery to speak of Morning came still do not. - Finally shaking the
first gray streak of the day and up Adalbert sprang up quickly, a
horse broke from the stable, and galloped away. His faithful dog was
often followed him out hunting, accompanied him. 

He drove fast towards
the sun, he spurred his horse incessantly, for the greatest speed
was it is too slow.

An oppressive heat went up and his horse was
tired when he overtook a knight pulled out of the street. - Where?
he asked them. - After man stone, was the answer, the marriage of
the noble Löwenau and the beautiful Emma. - Adalbert laughed wildly.
- What your laughs? - Full of joy that we have a way. - At the very
moment he was again the horse the spurs and galloped away like mad.
- Why do you hurry so? called him the Knight after. - You do not see,
Adalbert shouted back, as I am chasing the pale death? - He was he
soon left his eyes.

The green ribbon was tied around his arm and
flew after him, had his face death-pallor coated, gasped his horse
and his faithful dog ran ahead of many times and saw him whining to
- but without consciousness, he drove again and again continue in
a new fury. - In the evening fell the stallion down dead, the dog
was gone when he looked about for him. - He left me, Adalbert thought,
but the faithful companion was already far behind him dying on the
road. D'you think it's been easy to stay here?
Man, man, I've had to hear her talkin' about Dan Barry day after day, and never a word for
me. And I had to tell her stories about Dan and what he'd used to do, and she' sit with her
eyes miles away from me, listenin' an smilin' and me there hungerin' for just one look out
of her eyes--hungerin' like a dyin' dog for water. And then for her and Joe I rode down south
and when I met Dan Barry d'you think they was any light in his eyes when he seen me?

"No, he'd forgotten me the way even a hoss won't forget his master. Forgot me after a few months--and
after all that'd gone between us! Not even Kate--even she was nothin' to him. But still I kept
at it and I brought him back. I had to hurt him to do it, but God knows it wasn't out of spite
that I hit him--God knows!

"And when I seen Dan go into that burnin' barn I says to myself: 'Buck, if nothin' is done
that wall will fall and there's the end of Dan Barry. There's the end of him, that ain't any
human use, and when he's finished after a while maybe Kate will get to know that they's other
men in the world besides Dan.' I says that to myself, deep and still inside me. And then I
looked at Kate standin' in that white thing with her yaller hair all blowin' about her face--and
I wanted her like a dyin' man wants heaven! But then I says to myself again: 'No matter what's
happened, he's been my friend. He's been my pal. He's been my bunkie.'

"Doc, you ain't got a way of knowin' what a partner is out here. Maybe you sit in the desert
about a thousand miles from nowhere, and across the little mesquite fire, there's your pal,
the only human thing in sight. Maybe you go months seein' only him. If you're sick he takes
care of you. If you're blue he cheers you up. And that's what Dan Barry was to me. So I stands
sayin' these things to myself, and I says: 'If I keep that wall from fallin' Dan'll know about
it, and they won't be no more of that yaller light in his eyes when he looks at me. That's
what I says to myself, poor fool!

"And I went into the fire and I fought to keep that wall from fallin'. You know what happened.
When I come out, staggerin' and blind and three parts dead, Dan Barry looks up to me and touches
his face where I'd hit him, and the yaller comes up glimmerin' and blazin' in his eyes. Then
I went back to my room and I fought it out.

"And here's where I stand now. If I stay here, if I see that yaller light once more, they won't
be no waitin'. Him and me'll have to have it out right then. Am I a dog, maybe, that I got
to stand around and jump when he calls me?"

"My dear fellow--my dear Mr. Daniels!" cried the horrified Doctor Byrne. "Surely you're wrong.
He wouldn't go so far as to make a personal attack upon you!"

"Wouldn't he? Bah! Not if he was a man, no. I tell you, he ain't a man; he's what the canuks
up north call a were-wolf! There ain't no mercy or kindness in him. The blood of a man means
nothin' to him. The world would be better rid of him. Oh, he can be soft and gentle as a girl.
Mostly he is. But cross him once and he forgets all you done for him. Give him a taste of blood
and he jumps at your throat. I tell you, I've seen him do it!"

He broke off with a shudder.

"Doc," he said, in a lower and solemn voice. "Maybe I've said too much. Don't tell Kate nothin'
about why I'm goin'. Let her go on dreamin' her fool dream. But now hear what I'm sayin'; If
Dan Barry crosses me once more, one of us two dies, and dies damned quick. It may be me, it
may be him, but I've come to the end of my rope. I'm leavin' this place till Barry gets a chance
to come to his senses and see what I've done for him. That's all. I'm leavin' this place because
they's a blight on it, and that blight is Dan Barry. I'm leaving this place because--doc--because
I can smell the comin' of bloodshed in it. They's a death hangin' over it. If the lightnin'
was to hit and burn it up, house and man, the range would be better for it!"

And he turned on his heel and strode slowly down towards the corral. Doctor Byrne followed
his progress with starting eyes.

CHAPTER XXVI

THE BATTLE

The chain which fastened Black Bart had been passed around the trunk of a tree that stood behind
the ranch house, and there the great dog lay tethered. Doctor Byrne had told Whistling Dan,
with some degree of horror, that the open air was in the highest degree dangerous to wounds,
but Whistling Dan had returned no answer. So Black Bart lay all day in the soft sand, easing
himself from time to time into a new position, and his thoughtful eyes seemed to be concentrated
on the desire to grow well. Beside him was the chair in which Dan Barry sat for many an hour
of the day and even the night.

Kate Cumberland watched the animal from the shadow of the house; his eyes were closed, and
the long, powerful head lay inert on the sand, yet she knew that the wolf-dog was perfectly
aware of her presence. Day after day since he lay there, she had attempted to approach Black
Bart, and day after day he had allowed her to come within reaching distance of him, only to
drive her back at the last moment by a sudden display of the murderous, long fangs; or by one
of those snarls which came out of the black depths of his heart. Now, a dog snarls from not
far down in its throat, but the noise of an angered wild beast rolls up out of its very entrails--a
passion of hate and defiance. And when she heard that sound, or when she saw the still more
terrible silent rage of the beast, Kate Cumberland's spirit failed, and she would shrink back
again to a safe distance.

She was not easily discouraged. She had that grim resolution which comes to the gambler after
he has played at the same table night after night, night after night, and lost, lost, lost,
until, playing with the last of his money, he begins to mutter through his set teeth: "The
luck must change!" So it was with Kate Cumberland. For in Black Bart she saw the only possible
clue to Whistling Dan. There was the stallion, to be sure, but she knew Satan too well. Nothing
in the wide world could induce that wild heart to accept more than one master--more than one
friend. For Satan there was in the animal world Black Bart, and in the world of men, Dan Barry.
These were enough. For all the rest he kept the disdainful speed of his slender legs or the
terror of his teeth and trampling hoofs. Even if she could have induced the stallion to eat
from her hand she could never have made him willing to trust himself to her guidance. Some
such thing she felt that she must accomplish with Black Bart. To the wild beast with the scarred
and shaggy head she must become a necessary, an accepted thing.

One repulse did not dishearten her. Again and again she made the trial. She remembered having
read that no animal can resist the thoughtful patience of thinking man, and hour after hour
she was there, until a new light in the eye of the wolf-dog warned her that the true master
was coming.

Then she fled, and from a post of vantage in the house she would watch the two. An intimacy
surpassing the friendships and devotions of human beings existed between them. She had seen
the wolf lie with his great head on the foot of his master and the unchanging eyes fixed on
Barry's face--and so for an hour at a stretch in mute worship. Or she had watched the master
go to the great beast to change the dressing--a thing which could not be done too often during
the day. She had seen the swift hands remove the bandages and she had seen the cleansing solution
applied. She knew what it was; it stung even the unscratched skin, and to a wound it must be
torture, but the wolf lay and endured--not even shuddering at the pain.

It had seemed to her that this was the great test. If she could make the wolf lie like this
for her, then, truly, she might feel herself in some measure admitted to that mystic fellowship
of the three--the man, the stallion, and the wolf. If she could, with her own unaided hands,
remove the bandages and apply that solution, then she could know many things, and she could
feel that she was nearer to Whistling Dan than ever before.

So she had come, time and again, with the basin and the roll of cloth in her arm, and she had
approached with infinite patience, step by step, and then inch by inch. Once it had taken a
whole hour for her to come within a yard of the beast. And all that time Black Bart had lain
with closed eyes. But at the critical instant always there was the silent writhing up of the
lips and the gleam of hate--or the terrible snarl while the eyes fastened on her throat. Her
heart had stopped in mid-beat; and that day she ran back into the house and threw herself on
her bed, and would not come from her room till the following morning.

Now, as she watched from the shadow of the house, with the basin of antiseptic under her arm,
the gambler's desperation rose stronger and stronger. She came out, at length, and walked steadily
towards Black Bart. She had grown almost heedless of fear at this moment, but when she was
within a pace, once more the head reared back; the teeth flashed. And the heart of Kate Cumberland,
as always, stopped. Yet she did not retreat this time. All the colour left her face, so that
her eyes seemed amazingly blue and wide. One foot drew back, tremblingly ready to spring to
safety; yet she held her place. She moved--and it was towards Black Bart.

At that came a snarl that would have made the heart of a lone grizzly quake and leave his new-found
nuts. One further pace she made--and the beast plunged up, and braced itself with its one strong
fore leg. A devil of yellow-green gleamed in either eye, and past the grinning fangs she saw
the hot, red throat, and she saw the flattened ears, the scars on the bony forehead, the muscles
that bulged on the base of the jaw. Ay, strength to drive those knife-like teeth through flesh
and bone at a single snap. More--she had seen their effect, and the throat of a bull cut at
a single slash. And yet--she sank on her knees beside the monster.

His head was well nigh as high as hers, then; if he attacked there could be no dream of escape
for her. Or she might drag herself away from the tearing teeth--a disfigured horror forever.
Think not that an iota of all these terrors missed her mind. No, she felt the fangs buried
in her throat and heard the snarl of the beast stifled with blood. Yet--she laid her hand on
the bandage across the shoulder of Black Bart.

His head whirled. With those ears flattened, with that long, lean neck, it was like the head
of a striking snake. Her sleeve was rolled up to the elbow, and over the bare skin the teeth
of the wolf-dog were set. The snarl had grown so deep and hideous that the tremor of it fairly
shook her, and she saw that the jaws of the beast slavered with hunger. She knew--a thousand
things about Black Bart, and among the rest that he had tasted human blood. And there is a
legend which says that once a wild beast has tasted the blood of man he will taste it a second
time before he dies. She thought of that--she dared not turn her head lest she should encounter
the hellfire of Bart's eyes. Yet she had passed all ordinary fear. She had reached that exquisite
frenzy of terror when it becomes one with courage. The very arm over which the wolf's teeth
were set moved--raised--and with both hands she untied the knot of the bandage.

The snarling rose to a pitch of maniacal rage; the teeth compressed--if they broke the skin
it was the end; the first taste of blood would be enough!--and drew away her arm. If she had
started then, all the devil in the creature would be loosed, for her terror taught her that.
And by some mysterious power that entered her at that moment she was able to turn her head,
slowly, and look deep into those terrible eyes.

Her arm was released.

But Black Bart crouched and the snakelike head lowered; he was quivering throughout that steel-muscled
body to throw himself at her throat. The finger was on the hair-trigger; it needed a pressure
not greater than a bodiless thought. And still she looked into the eyes of the wolf-dog; and
her terror had made her strangely light of body and dizzy of mind. Then the change came, suddenly.
The yellow-green changed, swirled in the eyes of Black Bart; the eyes themselves wavered, and
at last looked away; the snarl dropped to a sullen growl. And Black Bart lay down as he had
been before.

His head was still turned towards her, to be sure. And the teeth were still bared, as with
rapid, deft fingers she undid the bandage; and from instant to instant, as the bandage in spite
of her care pressed against the wound, the beast shivered and wicked glances flashed up at
her face. The safe-blower who finds his "soup" cooling and dares not set it down felt as Kate
Cumberland felt then.

She never knew what kept her hands steady, but steady they were. The cloth was removed, and
now she could see the red, angry wound, with the hair shaven away to a little distance on every
side. She dipped her cloth into the antiseptic; it stung her fingers! She touched the cloth
lightly against the wound; and to her astonishment the wolf-dog relaxed every muscle and let
his head fall to the ground; also the growl died into a soft whine, and this in turn ended.

She had conquered! Ay, when the wound was thoroughly cleansed and when she started to wind
the bandage again, she had even the courage to touch Black Bart's body and make him rise up
so that she could pass the cloth freely. At her touch he shuddered, to be sure, as a man might
shudder at the touch of an unclean thing, but there was no snarl, and the teeth were not bared.

As she tied the knot which secured the bandage in its place she was aware that the eyes of
Bart, no longer yellow-green, watched her; and she felt some vague movement of the wonder that
was passing through the brute mind. Then the head of the wolf-dog jerked up; he was staring
at something in the distance, and there was nothing under heaven that Bart would raise his
head to look at in this manner except one thing. The fingers of Kate grew stiff, and trembled.
Slowly, in a panic, she finished the knot, and then she was aware of someone who had approached
without sound and now stood behind her.

She looked up, at length, before she rose to her feet.

Thankfulness welled up warm in her heart to find her voice steady and commonplace when she
said: "The wound is much better. Bart will be well in a very few days now."

Whistling Dan did not answer, and his wondering eyes glanced past her own. She saw that he
was staring at a double row of white indentations on her forearm, where the teeth of Black
Bart had set. He knew those marks, and she knew he knew. Strength was leaving her, and weakness
went through her--water where blood should have been. She dared not stay. In another moment
she would be hopelessly in the grip of hysteria.

So she rose, and passed Dan without a word, and went slowly towards the house. She tried to
hurry, indeed, but her legs would not quicken their pace. Yet at length she had reached shelter
and no sooner was she past the door of the house than her knees buckled; she had to steady
herself with both hands as she dragged herself up the stairs to her room. There, from the window,
she looked down and saw Whistling Dan standing as she had left him, staring blankly at the
wolf-dog.

CHAPTER XXVII

THE CONQUEST

There was no star-storming confidence in Kate Cumberland after that first victory. Rather she
felt as the general who deploys his skirmishers and drives in the outposts of an enemy. The
advantage is his, but it has really only served to give him some intimation of the strength
of the enemy. At the supper table this night she found Whistling Dan watching her--not openly,
for she could never catch his eye--but subtly, secretly, she knew that he was measuring her,
studying her; whether in hostility, amity, or mere wonder, she could not tell. Finally a vast
uneasiness overtook her and she turned to the doctor for relief. Doctor Randall Byrne held
a singular position in the attention of Kate. Since the night of the fire and her open talk
with him, the doctor knew "everything," and women are troubled in the presence of a man who
knows the details of the past.

The shield behind which they hide in social intercourse is a touch of mystery--or at least
a hope of mystery. The doctor, however, was not like other men; he was more similar to a precocious
child and she comforted herself in his obvious talent for silence. If he had been alert, strong,
self-confident, she might have hated him because he knew so much about her; but when she noted
the pale, thoughtful face, the vast forehead outbalancing the other features, and the wistful,
uncertain eyes, she felt nothing towards him stronger than pity.

It is good for a woman to have something which she may pity, a child, an aged parent, or a
house-dog. It provides, in a way, the background against which she acts; so Kate, when in doubt,
turned to the doctor, as on this night. There was a certain cruelty in it, for when she smiled
at him the poor doctor became crimson, and when she talked to him his answers stumbled on his
tongue; and when she was silent and merely looked at him that was worst of all, for he became
unable to manage knife and fork and would sit crumbling bread and looking frightened. Then
he was apt to draw out his glasses and make a move to place them on his nose, but he always
caught and checked himself in time--which added to his embarrassment.

These small maneuvres had not lasted long before the girl became aware that the silent attention
of Whistling Dan had passed from her to the doctor--and held steadily upon him. She did not
go so far as to call it jealousy, but certainly it was a grave and serious consideration that
measured the doctor up and down and back again; and it left her free to examine the two men
in contrast. For the first time it struck her that they were much alike in many ways. Physically,
for instance, there was the same slenderness, the same delicacy with which the details were
finished; the same fragile hands, for instance. The distinction lay in a suggestion of strength
and inexhaustible reserve of energy which Dan Barry possessed. The distinction lay still more
in their faces. That of Byrne was worn and pallied from the long quest and struggle for truth;
the body was feeble; the eyes were uncertain; but within there was a powerful machine which
could work infallibly from the small to the large and the large to the small. With Whistling
Dan there was no suggestion at all of mental care. She could not imagine him worrying over
a problem. His knowledge was not even communicable by words; it was more impalpable than the
instinct of a woman; and there was about him the wisdom and the coldness of Black Bart himself.

The supper ended too soon for Kate. She had been rallying Randall Byrne, and as soon as he
could graciously leave, the poor fellow rose with a crimson face and left the room; and behind
him, sauntering apparently in the most casual manner, went Whistling Dan. As for Kate Cumberland,
she could not put all the inferences together--she dared not; but when she lay in her bed that
night it was a long time before she could sleep, for there was a voice inside her, singing.

She chose her time the next day. Dan alternated between Black Bart and old Joe Cumberland during
most of the day, and no sooner had he left the wolf-dog in the morning than she went out to Bart. Sor Gracia lit all Candles.
It might be a hundred.

Many people came. Women in green and yellow bodices. Women in shoes without heels, in Silk shoes,
shoes made of silk with gold, with silver, shells, with many white Beads embroidered. They danced
Fandango. They danced the Bolero. Main Toni danced. Rodriguez was dancing. All other looked on. Drumming
castanets. Tambourines and flutes sounded. The men snapped with your fingers. Others suggested
in his hands. A bagpipe played with a high, monotonous, melancholy sound. Main Toni stepped
forward alone. She leaned against Rodriguez. He followed. The limbs were stretched in a hotter
pace. They grew circled, of course. They vaulted the breast. His back bent, his hands were hot.
Then they kept in a plastic Pose broke, and went alone into the darkness.

They returned soon.

The guests were received.

I went up to sleep.

It was late at night.

I woke up. A frantic cry rang out, whistling, whipped through the house. I fell down the stairs.
Below, I slipped. A little darkness fell on my eyes and pressed. As I awoke, I was lying diagonally
on the stairs. I slowly got up and walked out.

A man left a knife was stuck in Castilian his neck. Only people to whom the death the throat goes,
can shout Sun I saw no blood. It was Rodriguez.

It was half dark. Before my eyes circled red wheels. Flickering points
jumped back and forth.

Main Toni and Joaquin Pelayo were close together. I went there. There was a man It was all before
me.

But I am not surprised. - - - It was the same face of him smiling as he pushed Graf Perdicans
change in his pocket. . . the same green undermine the was how I saw it in front of Mrs. Mont Bell
Aires box.

The lips were dark.

A narrow strip of foam hung from his mouth. In the face were blue Spots. The neck was swollen
and red button at the throat like raw meat.

He was broken into. The diamonds were irritated. Rodriguez had been added. The knife. . . the
scream. . . Pelayo had his thumb crushed the larynx. - - - I saw everything.

Main Toni did not cry.

   
   The sea lay like a large pearl.

                              

   The head of the stranger stood diagonally across the shoulder
   into the air. The neck bulged out.

                               It could not last much longer.

The eyes looked now as if they had the star. The pupils were gray. They have been widely and
burned with a veiled fire. The nails he had driven into the palms. The arms lay still beside
him. All life was only in the seizure of the pupils.

Then broke the gaze. A quiver ran from the neck across the chest and played with weak shocks
over the abdomen.

Since this did Toni Main, which was greater and more terrible as all
that was Rodriguez, as he saved them from the cliff. . .

Main Toni did: they took the dying man with the feet wide his face, his head rolled back heavy.

Main
and Toni ran down to the beach. She threw herself on her knees in front of the sea, and by in the
vast splendor of the sun coming into said many times: "Oh, Santa Maria. . . Santa Maria de la Mar.
. ., "She put her hands to her face cried loudly and shouted.

Fifis autumnal passion

Brigitte: And now you understand life? Ulrich: Now I see death.

Carl Sternheim

And never again the love was so gentle, humble and pure, So full of music to there. . .

Ernst Stadler

The streets with the tagmüden gray sidewalks were broken, and the tail-like, wide Fonts, flown away
and fall prey to the strong gestures of the men lay down and clapping idiosyncratically to the
ground. It was evening. The willows and ash trees of the gardens hovered shyly and flickering
in front of the immense silence of the opal and deep-yellow sky. And as the water Iridescent sucked
from the air, the people walked across the streets like about images of Signac and Cross: A
quarter of an hour burned the city in a quiet glow of yellow Getupf.

Fire fire ran down in thin strands then in the city and mingled bells and the cruel urge of eating
dusk.

As chasms broke for days entfeuerter guns the castle windows over the extinction of houses squares,
solemn, hard and old, a time even beyond.

Then the lantern series jumped down the streets and reached the slight rattle Ignition behind,
the place of a furious force of a thousand corners, string and turns burst of light and was rammed
up and over the deeply dark autumn sky sterndurchlochter weird and cool growing up.

Fifi appeared on the podium.

Of the shooting already sounded the hammering of hits to play the organ began. But from the right
output of the barracks was a Herculean man waved impatiently with his shoulder, the organ was
silent: Fifi was the tip of the right foot on the back, put his arms
how to handle her hips and waited.

The Great began to scream. His arms were rowing through the air, they defined the most daring
figures, inhibited each other and threw themselves In successful surge over the audience, wide open,
also. A hat was glued nodded him on the head. At the handles, he shone. The rock was crushed
and hung around the body, whose flesh seemed spongy and unpleasant. It should be stressed that
the figure of Herculean was to understand the eye, when the chest
and the gesture is spread out and with grandiose opener at the height
increased, small and cowardly denied all this again and anxiously
as water droplets of an oily surface on the accumulated public were
handled.

His mouth called down hoarse words. He shouted. He threw venomous speeches to the people in
the face. "Look," he cried, "Fifis to dance. may come in, all, "and he waved," adults only
Dimensional representations: come. . . spicy scenes. . . (It was as though he crush something
Sticky in the mouth.) The King of Greece, have honored us in Vienna.

Highest rank expressed their admiration. " . . and as much as a wave of disgust ran from his sentences
and the knowing waving his clumsy hands, that two research officers themselves abruptly turned and
left. About the barracks was red to blue: Paris Relief!

The old man raised his hand, the organ to beat, and before the return in a part of the vortex
combined audience was Fifi in her dance.

Two young people were now opposite occurred in "the beauty of the Orient." Before the booth
were two palm trees and a big fat woman, old, full of history, that evil white Eyes. She was
the wife of the athletes, the Orient and Paris were two jaws on the
two Meßstraße sides of the bit and it turned out victims.

But the East was better, and Paris fell from city to city. Fifi had slender legs, but Lizzy, called Louise,
had hips like a Dynamo. And at their dirty jokes went over the two men were looking through a
round glass Photography by Ghizeh came and pushed back by a carpet, one for Lydia, the lady without
a torso, which, in a green velvet chair sat in a chair and red inflamed Had eyes.

One of the gentlemen put on his gloves, and after this symbolic action, they were the rapid retreat.
In Jena, it would appear fights between the students, calling them
By Lizzy, called Louise.

Like a layer of air was unpleasant this behind her and she stepped out into the excited of the place
in which swam the broad, musical carousels laden and over rest and
glitter of mirrors, light strings and colorful girl turned over and
where a Sea of ​​people shoving, pushing excited and swung himself
over which shots rang out, Scream back and forth twitching and loud
bells aufzitterten dark.

As Frank turned around suddenly and went with the other. They broke through the current, and while
his face brightened, Franz pointed to Fifi and said: "The slight curve these legs are adorable
beautiful. . . His face was a perfect goodness, the Bold and striking this profile in a strange
nobility increased.

And as he said this, the little lips moving, Fifis eyes fell suddenly
on his Eyes and the eyes clung together until the organ suddenly flared
up with a shock silent.

The Herculean rattling drumming on a sign, Fifi had resigned, he waved to enter, but only one
followed, the crowd pushed further.

And Franz and his friend were further depressed when they handed the flow past on the green
painted frame, lived in the man-eater. Three cowboys, with red blouses, coquette, over an entire
prairie unruly half a week vain roar of laughter would, at times
boastful shot revolver in the air.

A real Mexicans held a Harpoon rotblänkerndem high with meat. Everywhere was the joke that the man-eaters
- were crocodiles, and because the people knew ahead that it would glued, put it inside in droves.

Then
came the big booth with the "flying men", two girls in blue jerseys with silver lace: a blond
and with the beginning of the bulging forms a singular sensibility sprays out, and the other
with chased, boyish limbs, black, face Toulouse Lautrec's average model (broad, common, discarded)
with an eerie tendrils of refinement, Soul and Keuschsein it. Along the gallery was the family,
six people, and blowing brass instruments, and the girls rocked the
top of the Tough, municipality of the road roller the Gezitter their
dance.

Their place was completely full. Always!

And when Francis escaped the river and hurried back, he saw Fifi, pushed out with a shock, from the
empty barracks reeled rapidly took hold and began to dance, weary, tired and fine and exhilarating,
as they saw Franz. Only small forces stopped, the mass flowing Flying to the people.

". . . Eye star. . . 'It rolled up from below.

It was getting late. The organ concluded. Fifi bowed. The athlete said the start of the Idea
from. "Just the beginning. . ., "He cried, snapped. But no one rose up. He shouted. No one.
As he went, from the void ashamed, embarrassed again on the podium, disappeared into the Lurking
inside, until the group is entirely run and had stepped forward again. Fifi crept out again.
As a large spider of the Herculean hung on his podium. Franz stood aside observant, laid his head wrong.
And as a troop approached, began at the top, racy to speak, a wink, the organ: Fifi. . .

People were pushed down, it was later, her face flushed with the Old, he sought the Clock.
Again and again disappeared Fifi, always began the show, quickly,
hastily changed Scene to scene, the gripping and sparse hair after
passers-by, the continuance, the sinking Fifi and the leaden seriousness
of their fire dance, and sometimes violent in Behold Then it was French
by zehn clock.

Police pressed forward with ropes, the whistle of the steam plant howled the crowd expired.

About the empty space by a narrow corridor, the policemen were released, and to the groups Were
curious, then came the artists, some with coats that they have the colorful and the flakes were hanged
and so between the employee, the lightless stalls and their different
gestures suddenly become disillusioned and yet of the exciting Arom
their commercial shrouded, flowing into the street.

First came cocky and the strong delusion of high bespornten leather
shoes swaying, the cowboys from Dresden and Garmisch.

Their sombreros hung by the neck. The hand was stuck in the holster so that maids shuddered and
boys in dramatic perspectives, detaching.

Behind the deliberate brutality of the wrestlers with the hairless
bear troops crossed the crew the shooting gallery next to the back.

They all had medium-length skirts, and dresses, what a fine and carrying dainty little flower patterns,
in Pentecostal style of many Bauernkattune, and as to two, left and right hung the well-dressed
and beautiful upright mother their heads bowed, gracefully hopped to her car, she looked like a porcelain
group from a small, middle-graceful, German manufacture.

Then: nothing. . . and Fifi. . . Narrow, but delicious wrapped in a yellow raincoat, shivering,
filling the place with nobility, she came up to the exit. With the thin left Hand she clutched
the collar over the chest in front of the neck as with a white clasp. The Lips were red and strange
as fine enamel on her pale face applied. You came just before the road along with the other. The
old woman was carrying a milk pail. The Herculean shuffled her uncomfortable, she yelled something,
Lydia - a big swollen animal - was stupid, lazy, incidentally, without cloak of green velvet
trousers. Lizzy laughed with all men. With greedy eyes of Mexicans joined the crocodile Fifi
on the other side in that it appeared between him and the athletes so much purer.

Obliquely on the wooden staircase that was running in the big yellow
car in which they lived, turned Fifi's head and looked somnambulistic
transfigured to the spot was at the Franz (they do not - This was
remarkable and strange at the same time - could have seen) with a
fraction of a Smile, while the Mexicans in lascivious joke they, with
hands on her hips attached, pushed into the interior.

To which she responded with painful drawing the shoulders.

Later, the Mexicans slipped out of the car. A cigarette rotation, with the elegance of the novels
moving all limbs, he strolled to the tavern artists. Franz, who for a long time the car circled, light
seemed to penetrate the narrow hatches and nagging voices heard inside the Space tear back and forth.
Then approached with a heavy, gleichabgetöntem step the patrols.

It grew late.

He left.

All the days of dancing Fifi. It had grown cooler. Curved monster was stretched to the sky. Senseless
Moon rose out of the nights.

Franz found himself in all relations with the world, society and
things ripped out and dragged into the aura of this dance with all
apprehending fevers.

In the "Flying man" every day increased the cash storm and sensation. The "Orient" deserved
well of the more mature women. brought "Paris" is 80-10 at night sometimes just to Performance.
During the breaks danced Fifi. The old man waved, screamed, was greedy, the later the Time ran
along. Announced the beginning of the presentation, he opened the curtains, Fifi pranced into
Interior. No one came. Sometimes maybe two masters. And then the old man grabbed his Fifi Paw
on the shoulder and threw them out. The organ began, Fifi got the feet back the blue horizon of
the draperies were keeping their movements and relief, and the tired vibrations their arms and
legs were like the short flutter of a dragonfly, persistently, in the air, erblitzt on a beautiful
waters. Slow progression of the evening were their gestures tired, tinged by a painful, lead-like
gravity. Franz heard the whistling of their Breath. And if, slightly flushed cheeks, closed,
came the coolness of autumn on their Sweat.

Franz remained a few days on the periphery of watching with pity and admiration painful filled.
Sometimes it seemed as though the next Pas overthrow it, collapse into itself . Let But she stayed.
But he was reluctant, this easy way to get at them, under the eyes
of the athletes or sticky with the taste of the usual slightly erotic
Connection would take place.

He felt that he was wearing in the content, which in its essence tailored to the child are
and the severity of this consciousness he took the courage to ease. Their eyes met from time to
time - not often - but in a beguiling, otherworldly Context.

They were already deeply settled into each other, as she has not known their votes.

Then came that evening. Thursdays.

It was a beautiful evening, with cool colorful star-hard, the park is full of fermenting noise.
He ran like a current through the city, english, überdunkelt and old in the summer, winter
tires, always beautiful. The light of entire border belt roads threw themselves into it, shimmered
in the small Pond, but he was no darkness and back again. Took it all in with big, deep self-evident.
Stand recovered, sheltering, untouchable, closed complex of distinction, as a way of asylum Center
around which revolved the city with Geleucht.

Thursday evenings. . .

It was beautiful.

Between seven and eight, or more precisely: A Clock castle is hooked: Five minutes until half
past seven Clock! Franz walked slowly to the fair, which began eight clock, which had previously
stopped at seven: Time, ate in the artists. His thoughts went slowly, slowly, do not expect
without energy to the inner image of Fifi dance reflected off moving, declarations been loosened
contrive, from a quiet longing and elated. As it creaked, and before him by his dreamed of
consciousness and violent steps hasch final movements came to mind,
with an infinitely sharp cut accent scream into it, threw him.

He ran on a grass roundabout tripped, pushed, jumped on a grid over
it.

His Hat was lost, with slit the sleeves, his chest was trembling.

He stormed to a fenced Monument had to turn back, ran into a dark
road, a man grabbed her by the neck and threw him back, his body slammed
to the picket fence and crashed on them like a mindless masses fell
down.

Back in the path lit up the red head of a cigarette, moved her to.

Besides Fifi was himself, his arms still lifted an angle, the eyes
very large in the manner and shell, stuck in the raft suddenly an
almost bluish light shine.

Two shimmering Parties were, the eyes in her face.

And so the holding hands, awkwardly, but is quite fulfilling in the gesture, she made a unspeakably
tired and slow step towards him, her face clear, shimmering with two Hosts. At that moment, the
rattle was quickly shot down next to them following, and how they
looked, it was only Fifi, which looked, watched as the Franz Hinge
depressed the gun snatched from his fingers, he hammered the piston
against the temple and very big on it, the trembling waited, walked.

But before he reached them, was the cigarette came up, jumped between
them and triggered the air currents going on, which ran between them.

It
was the Mexicans. He asked quickly, it screamed: "Hurt" Frank was
the gun he pointed to the lump on the grid. The Mexican pulled his
face into folds snapped, went the lump in his stomach flipped, lower
leg, that the body was around, lowered his Head close to the footwall
and drew heavily on the cigarette, that a red circle on the Fell down
in the middle of an ascetic, many scars and puncture wounds pierced
face appeared.

"The Fakir,". . . foaming of the Mexicans. "He should
be" whipped. . . and started him to work with his feet. As Franz prevent
him, his eye fell on Fifi.

She was completely changed. Her face was
like a white rock in the way of rapid flickering shocks red flashes
flowed. Flash stick alternated light and red and threatened to break
his neck.

And while they walked back to Franz, as she carried everything
against him, trembling a sound, rough against streaming in their throats,
on, and like all members urged him, she held a Back sobs, she threw
her head to one side, huge shock triggered to and like a condemned
man she dropped against the Mexicans, who received them confused,
the Franz looked again at her, seemed surprised and excited beyond
measure. Then suddenly, but without standing shoulder movement on
his mouth and threw her in a long kiss, she moved away.

Franz stood
for a while.

Then he turned around.

Behind him stood the Fakir.
He asked for his revolver. He said it in English.

Nothing seemed
Franz obvious as this sounds strange episode. He gave him the revolver.

The
fakir bowed and left. - -

Fifi was punched because she was late.
The Herculean bulged go to them and they appeared under his hands
like a fine cloth in the tips of thumb wrestling a rough bony Washerwoman.
She made no sound. She danced the evening that there were four performances.
She danced, that her legs were like the wound strings played a beautiful
violin, while the cool on her breast, pressed from the level in long,
gasping shock her breath.

Franz did not come.

She danced the nights
of Friday and Saturday down like lightning and glow coils ceded their
feet. It got colder, merciless penetrated the autumn.

"Certainly not."

"And it ain't possible, I'm here to state. But they was something different about Dan Barry.
D'you ever notice it, Kate?"

She was far past speech.

"No, I guess you never would have noticed it. You was livin' too close to him all the time
to see how different he was from other fellers. Anyway, he done it. They say he got plugged
while he was ridin' through the lines and he bled all the way home, and he got there unconscious.
Is that right, Kate?"

He waited an instant and then accepted the silence as an affirmative.

"Funny thing about that, too. The place where he come to was Buck Daniels' house. Well, Buck
was one of Jim Silent's men, and they say Buck had tried to plug Dan before that. But Dan let
him go that time, and when Buck seen Dan ride in all covered with blood he remembered that
favour and he kept Dan safe from Jim Silent and safe from the law until Dan was well. I seen
Buck this morning over to Rafferty's place, and----"

Here the marshal noted a singular look in the eyes of Kate Cumberland, a look so singular that
he turned in his chair to follow it. He saw Dan Barry in the act of closing the door behind
him, and Marshal Calkins turned a deep and violent red, varied instantly by a blotchy yellow
which in turn faded to something as near white as his tan permitted.

"Dan Barry!" gasped the marshal, rising, and he reached automatically towards his hip before
he remembered that he had laid his belt and guns aside before he entered the dining-room, as
etiquette is in the mountain-desert. For it is held that shooting at the table disturbs the
appetite.

"Good evenin'," said Dan quietly. "Was it Buck Daniels that you seen at Rafferty's place, Marshal
Calkins?"

"Him," nodded the marshal, hoarsely. "Yep, Buck Daniels."

And then he sank into his chair, silent for the first time. His eyes followed Barry as though
hypnotized.

"I'm kind of glad to know where I can find him," said Barry, and took his place at the table.

The silence continued for a while, with all eyes focused on the new-comer. It was the doctor
who had to speak first.

"You've talked things over with Mr. Cumberland?" he asked.

"We had a long talk," nodded Dan. "You was wrong about him, doc. He thinks he can do without me."

"What?" cried Kate.

"He thinks he can do without me," said Dan Barry. "We talked it all over."

The silence fell again. Kate Cumberland was staring blankly down at her plate, seeing nothing;
and Doctor Byrne looked straight before him and felt the pulse drumming in his throat. His
chance, then, was to come. By this time the marshal had recovered his breath.

He said to Dan: "Seems like you been away some time, Dan. Where you been hangin' out?"

"I been ridin' about," answered Dan vaguely.

"Well," chuckled the marshal, "I'm glad they ain't no more Jim Silents about these parts--not
while you're here and while I'm here. You kept things kind of busy for Glasgow, Dan."

He turned to Kate, who had pushed back her chair.

"What's the matter, Kate?" he boomed. "You ain't lookin' any too tip-top. Sick?"

"I may be back in a moment," said the girl, "but don't delay supper for me."

She went out of the room with a step poised well enough, but the moment the door closed behind
her she fairly staggered to the nearest chair and sank into it, her head fallen back, her eyes
dim, and all the strength gone from her body and her will. Several minutes passed before she
roused herself, and then it was to drag herself slowly up the stairs to the door of her father's
room. She opened it without knocking, and then closed it and stood with her back against it,
in the shadow.

CHAPTER XXX

THE VOICE OF BLACK BART

Her father lay propped high with pillows among which his head lolled back. The only light in
the room was near the bed and it cast a glow upon the face of Joe Cumberland and on the white
linen, the white hair, the white, pointed beard. All the rest of the room swam in darkness.
The chairs were blotches, indistinct, uncertain; even the foot of the bed trailed off to nothingness.
It was like one of those impressionistic, very modern paintings, where the artist centres upon
one point and throws the rest of his canvas into dull oblivion. The focus here was the face
of the old cattleman. The bedclothes, never stirred, lay in folds sharply cut out with black
shadows, and they had a solid seeming, as the mort-cloth rendered in marble over the effigy.
That suggested weight exaggerated the frailty of the body beneath the clothes. Exhausted by
that burden, the old man lay in the arms of a deadly languor, so that there was a kinship of
more than blood between him and Kate at this moment. She stepped to the side of the bed and
stood staring down at him, and there was little gentleness in her expression. So cold was that
settled gaze that her father stirred, at length, shivered, and without opening his eyes, fumbled
at the bed-spread and drew it a little more closely about his shoulders. Even that did not
give him rest; and presently the wrinkled eyelids opened and he looked up at his daughter.
A film of weariness heavier than sleep at first obscured his sight, but this in turn cleared
away; he frowned a little to clear his vision, and then wagged his head slowly from side to side.

"Kate," he said feebly, "I done my best. It simply wasn't good enough."

She answered in a voice as low as his, but steadier: "What could have happened? Dad, what happened
to make you give up every hold on Dan? What was it? You were the last power that could keep
him here. You knew it. Why did you tell him he could go?"

The monotone was more deadly than any emphasis of a raised word.

"If you'd been here," pleaded Joe Cumberland, "you'd have done what I done. I couldn't help
it. There he sat on the foot of the bed--see where them covers still kind of sag down--after
he told me that he had something to do away from the ranch and that he wanted to go now that
Black Bart was well enough to travel in short spells. He asked me if I still needed him."

"And you told him no?" she cried. "Oh Dad, you know it means everything to me--but you told
him no?" He raised a shaking hand to ward off the outburst and stop it.

"Not at first, honey. Gimme a chance to talk, Kate. At first I told him that I needed him--and
God knows that I do need him. I dunno why--not even Doc Byrne knows what there is about Dan
that helps me. I told Dan all them things. And he didn't say nothin', but jest sat still on
the foot of the bed and looked at me.

"It ain't easy to bear his eyes, Kate. I lay here and tried at first to smile at him and talk
about other things--but it ain't easy to bear his eyes. You take a dog, Kate. It ain't supposed
to be able to look you in the eye for long; but s'pose you met up with a dog that could. It'd
make you feel sort of queer inside. Which I felt that way while Dan was lookin' at me. Not
that he was threatenin' me. No, it wasn't that. He was only thoughtful, but I kept gettin'
more nervous and more fidgety. I felt after a while like I couldn't stand it. I had to crawl
out of bed and begin walkin' up and down till I got quieter. But I seen that wouldn't do.

"Then I begun to think. I thought of near everything in a little while. I thought of what would
happen s'pose Dan should stay here. Maybe you and him would get to like each other again. Maybe
you'd get married. Then what would happen?

"I thought of the wild geese flyin' north in the spring o' the year and the wild geese flyin'
south in the fall o' the year. And I thought of Dan with his heart followin' the wild geese--God
knows why!--and I seen a picture of him standin' and watchin' them, with you nearby and not
able to get one look out of him. I seen that, and it made my blood chilly, like the air on
a frosty night.

"Kate, they's something like the power of prophecy that comes to a dyin' man!"

"Dad!" she cried. "What are you saying?"

She slipped to her knees beside the bed and drew his cold hands towards her, but Joe Cumberland
shook his head and mildly drew one hand away. He raised it, with extended forefinger--a sign
of infinite warning; and with the glow of the lamp full upon his face, the eyes were pits of
shadow with stirring orbs of fire in the depths.

"No, I ain't dead now," he said, "but I ain't far away from it. Maybe days, maybe weeks, maybe
whole months. But I've passed the top of the hill, and I know I'm ridin' down the slope. Pretty
soon I'll finish the trail. But what little time I've got left is worth more'n everything that
went before. I can see my life behind me and the things before like a cold mornin' light was
over it all--you know before the sun begins to beat up the waves of heat and the mist gets
tanglin' in front of your eyes? You know when you can look right across a thirty mile valley
and name the trees, a'most the other side? That's the way I can see now. They ain't no feelin'
about it. My body is all plumb paralyzed. I jest see and know--that's all.

"And what I see of you and Dan--if you ever marry--is plain--hell! Love ain't the only thing
they is between a man and a woman. They's something else. I dunno what it is. But it's a sort
of a common purpose; it's havin' both pairs of feet steppin' out on the same path. That's what
it is. But your trail would go one way and Dan's would go another, and pretty soon your love
wouldn't be nothin' but a big wind blowin' between two mountains--and all it would do would
be to freeze up the blood in your hearts."

"I seen all that, while Dan was sittin' at the foot of the bed. Not that I don't want him here.
When I see him I see the world the way it was when I was under thirty. When there wasn't nothin'
I wouldn't try once, when all I wanted was a gun and a hoss and a song to keep me from tradin'
with kings. No, it ain't goin' to be easy for me when Dan goes away. But what's my tag-end
of life compared with yours? You got to be given a chance; you got to be kept away from Dan.
That's why I told him, finally, that I thought I could get along without him."

"Whether or not you save me," she answered, "you signed a death warrant for at least two men
when you told him that."

"Two men? They's only one he's after--and Buck Daniel has had a long start. He can't be caught!"

"That Marshal Calkins is here to-night. He saw Buck at Rafferty's, and he talked about it in
the hearing of Dan at the table. I watched Dan's face. You may read the past and see the future,
Dad, but I know Dan's face. I can read it as the sailor reads the sea. Before to-morrow night
Buck Daniels will be dead; and Dan's hands will be red."

She dropped her head against the bedclothes and clasped her fingers over the bright hair.

When she could speak again she raised her head and went on in the same swift, low monotone:
"And besides, Black Bart has found the trail of the man who fired the barn and shot him. And
the body of Buck won't be cold before Dan will be on the heels of the other man. Oh, Dad, two
lives lay in the hollow of your hand. You could have saved them by merely asking Dan to stay
with you; but you've thrown them away."

"Buck Daniels!" repeated the old man, the horror of the thing dawning on him only slowly. "Why
didn't he get farther away? Why didn't he ride night and day after he left us? He's got to
be warned that Dan is coming!"

"I've thought of that. I'm going into my room now to write a note and send it to Buck by one
of our men. But at the most he'll have less than a day's start--and what is a day to Satan
and Dan Barry?"

"I thought it was for the best," muttered old Joe. "I couldn't see how it was wrong. But I
can send for Dan and tell him that I've changed my mind." He broke off in a groan. "No, that
wouldn't be no good. He's set his mind on going by this time, and nothing can keep him back.
But --Kate, maybe I can delay him. Has he gone up to his room yet?"

"He's in there now. Talk softly or he'll hear us. He's walking up and down, now."

"Ay, ay, ay!" nodded old Joe, his eyes widening with horror, "and his footfall is like the
padding of a big cat. I could tell it out of a thousand steps. And I know what's going on inside
his mind!"

"Yes, yes; he's thinking of the blow Buck Daniels struck him; he's thinking of the man who
shot down Bart. God save them both!"

"Listen!" whispered the cattleman. "He's raised the window. I heard the rattle of the weights.
He's standing there in front of the window, letting the wind of the night blow in his face!"

The wind from the window, indeed, struck against the door communicating with Joe Cumberland's
room, and shook it as if a hand were rattling at the knob.

The girl began to speak again, as swiftly as before, her voice the barely audible rushing of
a whisper: "The law will trail him, but I won't give him up. Dad, I'm going to fight once more
to keep him here--and if I fail, I'll follow him around the world." Such words should have
come loudly, ringing. Spoken so softly, they gave a terrible effect; like the ravings of delirium,
or the monotone of insanity. And with the white light against her face she was more awe-inspiring
than beautiful. "He loved me once; and the fire must still be in him; such fire can't go out,
and I'll fan it back to life, and then if it burns me--if it burns us both--the fire itself
cannot be more torture than to live on like this!"

"Hush, lass!" murmured her father. "Listen to what's coming!"

It was a moan, very low pitched, and then rising slowly, and gaining in volume, rising up the
scale with a dizzy speed, till it burst and rang through the house--the long-drawn wail of
a wolf when it hunts on a fresh trail.

CHAPTER XXXI

THE MESSAGE

Buck Daniels opened his eyes and sat bolt-upright in bed. He had dreamed the dream again, and
this time, as always, he awakened before the end. He needed no rubbing of eyes to rouse his
senses. If a shower of cold water had been dashed upon him he could not have rallied from sound
slumber so suddenly. His first movement was to snatch his gun from under his mattress, not
that he dreamed of needing it, but for some reason the pressure of the butt against his palm
was reassuring. It was better than the grip of his friend--a strong man.

It was the first grey of dawn, a light so feeble that it served merely to illuminate the darkness,
so to speak. It fell with any power upon one thing alone, the bit of an old, dusty bridle that
hung against the wall, and it made the steel glitter like a watchful eye. There was a great
dryness in the throat of Buck Daniels; and his whole big body shook with the pounding of his heart.

He was not the only thing that was awake in the grey hour. For now he caught a faint and regular
creaking of the stairs. Someone was mounting with an excessively cautious and patient step,
for usually the crazy stairs that led up to this garret room of the Rafferty house creaked
and groaned a protest at every footfall. Now the footfall paused at the head of the stairs,
as when one stops to listen.

Buck Daniels raised his revolver and levelled it on the door; but his hand was shaking so terribly
that he could not keep his aim--the muzzle kept veering back and forth across the door. He
seized his right hand with his left, and crushed it with a desperate pressure. Then it was
better. The quivering of the two hands counteracted each other and he managed to keep some
sort of a bead.

Now the step continued again, down the short hall. A hand fell on the knob of the door and
pressed it slowly open. Against the deeper blackness of the hall beyond, Buck saw a tall figure,
hatless. His finger curved about the trigger, and still he did not fire. Even to his hysterical
brain it occurred that Dan Barry would be wearing a hat--and moreover the form was tall.

"Buck!" called a guarded voice.

The muzzle of Daniels' revolver dropped; he threw the gun on his bed and stood up.

"Jim Rafferty!" he cried, with something like a groan in his voice. "What in the name of God
are you doin' here at this hour?"

"Someone come here and banged on the door a while ago. Had a letter for you. Must have rid
a long ways and come fast; while he was givin' me the letter at the door I heard his hoss pantin'
outside. He wouldn't stay, but went right back. Here's the letter, Buck. Hope it ain't no bad
news. Got a light here, ain't you?"

"All right, Jim," answered Buck Daniels, taking the letter. "I got a lantern. You get back to bed."

The other replied with a noisy yawn and left the room while Buck kindled the lantern. By that
light he read his name upon the envelope and tore it open. It was very brief.

   "Dear Buck,

   Last night at supper Dan found out where
   you are. In the morning he's leaving the ranch and
   we know that he intends to ride for Rafferty's place;
   he'll probably be there before noon. The moment
   you get this, saddle your horse and ride. Oh, Buck,
   why did you stay so close to us?

   Relay your horses. Don't stop until you're over
   the mountains. Black Bart is well enough to take
   the trail and Dan will use him to follow you. You
   know what that means.

   Ride, ride, ride!

   Kate."

He crumpled up the paper and sank back upon the bed.

"Why did you stay so close?"

He had wondered at that, himself, many times in the past few days. Like the hunted rabbit,
he expected to find safety under the very nose of danger. Now that he was discovered it seemed
incredible that he could have followed so patently foolish a course. In a sort of daze he uncrumpled
the note again and read the wrinkled writing word by word. He had leaned close to read by the
uncertain light, and now he caught the faintest breath of perfume from the paper. It was a
small thing, smaller among scents than a whisper is among voices, but it made Buck Daniels
drop his head and crush the paper against his face. It was a moment before he could uncrumple
the paper sufficiently to study the contents of the note thoroughly. At first his dazed brain
caught only part of the significance. Then it dawned on him that the girl thought he had fled
from the Cumberland Ranch through fear of Dan Barry.

Ay, there had been fear in it. Every day at the ranch he had shuddered at the thought that
the destroyer might ride up on that devil of black silken grace, Satan. But every day he had
convinced himself that even then Dan Barry remembered the past and was cursing himself for
the ingratitude he had shown his old friend. Now the truth swept coldly home to Buck Daniels.
Barry was as fierce as ever upon the trail; and Kate Cumberland thought that he--Buck Daniels,--had
fled like a cur from danger.

He seized his head between his hands and beat his knuckles against the corrugated flesh of
his forehead. She had thought that!

Desire for action, action, action, beset him like thirst. To close with this devil, this wolf-man,
to set his big fingers in the smooth, almost girlish throat, to choke the yellow light out
of those eyes--or else to die, but like a man proving his manhood before the girl.

He read the letter again and then in an agony he crumpled it to a ball and hurled it across
the room. Catching up his hat and his belt he rushed wildly from the room, thundered down the
crazy stairs, and out to the stable.

Long Bess, the tall, bay mare which had carried him through three years of adventure and danger
and never failed him yet, raised her aristocratic head above the side of the stall and whinnied.
For answer he shook his fist at her and cursed insanely.

The saddle he jerked by one stirrup leather from the wall and flung it on her back, and when
she cringed to the far side of the stall, he cursed her again, bitterly, and drew up the cinch
with a lunge that made her groan. He did not wait to lead her to the door before mounting,
but sprang into the saddle.

Here he whirled her about and drove home the spurs. Cruel usage, for Long Bess had never denied
him the utmost of her speed and strength at the mere sound of his voice. Now, half-mad with
fear and surprise, she sprang forward at full gallop, slipped and almost sprawled on the floor,
and then thundered out of the door.

At once the soft sandy-soil received and deadened the impact of her hoofs. Off she flew through
the grey of the morning, soundless as a racing ghost.

Long Bess--there was good blood in her. She was as delicately limbed as an antelope, and her
heart was as strong as the smooth muscles of her shoulders and hips. Yet to Buck Daniels her
fastest gait seemed slower than a walk. Already his thoughts were flying far before. Already
he stood before the ranch house calling to Dan Barry. Ay, at the very door of the place they
should meet and one of them must die. And better by far that the blood of him who died should
stain the hands of Kate Cumberland.

CHAPTER XXXII

VICTORY

The grey light which Buck Daniels saw that morning, hardly brightened as the day grew, for
the sky was overcast with sheeted mist and through it a dull evening radiance filtered to the
earth. Wung Lu, his celestial, slant eyes now yellow with cold, built a fire on the big hearth
in the living-room. It was a roaring blaze, for the wood was so dry that it flamed as though
soaked in oil, and tumbled a mass of yellow fire up the chimney. So bright was the fire, indeed,
that its light quite over-shadowed the meagre day which looked in at the window, and every
chair cast its shadow away from the hearth. Later on Kate Cumberland came down the backstairs
and slipped into the kitchen.

"Have you seen Dan?" she asked of the cook.

"Wung Lu make nice fire," grinned the Chinaman. "Misser Dan in there."

She thought for an instant.

"Is breakfast ready, Wung?"

"Pretty soon quick," nodded Wung Lu.

"Then throw out the coffee or the eggs," she said quickly. "I don't want breakfast served yet;
wait till I send you word."

As the door closed behind her, the eye-brows of Wung rose into perfect Roman arches.

"Ho!" grunted Wung Lu, "O ho!"

In the hall Kate met Randall Byrne coming down the stairs. He was dressed in white and he had
found a little yellow wildflower and stuck it in his button-hole. He seemed ten years younger
than the day he rode with her to the ranch, and now he came to her with a quick step, smiling.

"Doctor Byrne," she said quietly, "breakfast will be late this morning. Also, I want no one
to go into the living-room for a while. Will you keep them out?"

The doctor was instantly gone.

"He hasn't gone, yet?" he queried.

"Not yet."

The doctor sighed and then, apparently following a sudden impulse, he reached his hand to her.

"I hope something comes of it," he said.

Even then she could not help a wan smile.

"What do you mean by that, doctor?"

The doctor sighed again.

"If the inference is not clear," he said, "I'm afraid that I cannot explain. But I'll try to
keep everyone from the room."

She nodded her thanks, and went on; but passing the mirror in the hall the sight of her face
made her stop abruptly. There was no vestige of colour in it; and the shadow beneath her eyes
made them seem inhumanly large and deep. The bright hair, to be sure, waved over her head and
coiled on her neck, but it was like a futile shaft of sunlight falling on a dreary moor in
winter. She went on thoughtfully to the door of the living-room but there she paused again
with her hand upon the knob; and while she stood there she remembered herself as she had been
only a few months before, with the colour flushing in her face and a continual light in her
eyes. There had been little need for thinking then. One had only to let the wind and the sun
strike on one, and live. Then, in a quiet despair, she said to herself: "As I am--I must win
or lose--as I am!" and she opened the door and stepped in.

She had been cold with fear and excitement when she entered the room to make her last stand
for happiness, but once she was in, it was not so hard. Dan Barry lay on the couch at the far
end of the room with his hands thrown under his head, and he was smiling in a way which she
well knew; it had been a danger signal in the old days, and when he turned his face and said
good-morning to her, she caught that singular glimmer of yellow which sometimes came up behind
his eyes. In reply to his greeting she merely nodded, and then walked slowly to the window
and turned her back to him.

It was a one-tone landscape. Sky, hills, barns, earth, all was a single mass of lifeless grey;
in such an atmosphere old Homer had seen the wraiths of his dead heroes play again at the things
they had done on earth. She noted these things with a blank eye, for a thousand thoughts were
leaping through her mind. Something must be done. There he lay in the same room with her. But before it reached the ground it vanished unnoticed into the air and make up the
Room with rose-colored fog. A strong rose scent flowed through the keyhole, the boy pressed
his eye to the opening, but he saw nothing but now and then a glow, the red in the dawn broke
up and disappeared. After a while he heard footsteps at the door, he would jump up, but a sharp
pain at the end robbed him of consciousness.

The Rose

As Hinzelmeier awoke from the anesthesia, he lay in his bed, Mrs. Abel was sitting next to him and
held his hand in hers. She smiled as he opened his eyes to her and the Reflection of a rose was
on her face. "You have overheard too much, do not read more to have
to, "she said."

Only for today, you may not leave your bed, but during the I will tell thee the mystery of your
family.

You are now large enough to know. "

"Tell me, mother," said Hinzelmeier and laid his head back in the pillow, and then told Mrs.
Abel:

"Far from this small town is the old rose garden from which the legend goes, he was on the sixth
day of creation was created with. Within its walls are thousands of red Rosenbuesche to stop what
never to bloom, and every time in our race, which is widespread in many sectors by all countries
of the world, a child is born, jumps a new bud from the leaves. Each bud has appointed a girl as
a nurse, what the garden should not leave until the rose has been retrieved from the, by his
birth it's sprung. Such a rose, which you have just seen, has the power to their Owners to
get his life young and beautiful.

Therefore not easily missed because someone, to get his Rose, it just depends on finding the
right way, for the entrances are many and often surprising.

Here it passes through a densely overgrown fence, there Winkelpfoertchen by a narrow, sometimes
"- and Mrs Abel saw her husband, the newly entered the room, with mischievous eyes - sometimes
through the window! "

Mr. Hinzelmeier smiled and sat next to the bed of his son. Then told Mrs. Abel continued:

"This is the largest number of young women released from their confinement and leaves with
the owner of the rose garden. Even your mother was a young woman and Rose used for sixteen years,
the rose of your father. Who voruebergeht but in the garden without einzukehren who may never
go back, only the young woman rose to three times three is Years allowed to go out into the
world to seek the Lord, and rose through the Rose to redeem from captivity. Find them at that
time did not, it must in the garden and back again three times only after three years once the
experiment renew, but few take the first, almost no second gear, for the Rose Maidens shun the world and
when they go so in their white robes, so they go with downcast eyes and trembling feet, and was
among hundreds of such little Kuehnen one of the wandering Mr. Rose
found.

For these, but then lost the rose; and during the virgin to perpetual imprisonment has fallen,
he also has the grace his birth and must be forfeited as the common humanity perish miserably
and age .-- Also you, my son belong to the Rose men's and you come
out into the world, then forget the Rose garden not.

"

Mr. Abel Hinzelmeier bowed to the woman and kissed her silken hair, then he said, friendly touching
the boy's other hand: "You are now large enough you probably want to in the world, and learn an
art? "

"Yes," said Hinzelmeier, "but it would have to be a great art, so one that no one else has
been able to learn! "

Mrs. Abel shook his head sorrowfully, the father said, 'I want you
to have a Bring master who lives many miles from here in a big city,
because you like yourself an art election.

"

Since Hinzelmeier was satisfied.

A few days later Mrs. Abel grabbed a large suitcase with clothes and innumerable Hinzelmeier
still put themselves into a shaving kit, so he's beard when he came at once cut again. Then
one day the car drove in front of the door and when the mother hugged
her son good-bye, "she said through tears to him:" Forget the rose
is not!

"

Krahirius

As Hinzelmeier been a year with the wise master, he wrote his parents
that he had now chosen an art that he wanted to?

Philosopher's Stone? look, after two years will absolve the master him, then he wanted to wander
and never come back, until he had found the stone. This is an art which still learned by anyone
been, for even the master really was just a former shareholders, as the stone or not was found
by him.

had the most beautiful woman Abel read this letter, she folded her fingers together and exclaimed:
"Oh, he will never come in the Rose Garden will go to him as our neighbor! Punch and Judy, who
has moved out twenty years ago and never came back home! "

Mr. Hinzelmeier but kissed the beautiful woman and said: "He had to go his way I! for once wanted
to? Philosopher's Stone? and look I found instead the Rose. "

Hinzelmeier so then stayed with the wise master, and gradually went
the time-herum.

It was already deep into the night. Hinzelmeier sat in front of a smoky lamp over a tome bent. But he did
not succeed today, and he felt it beating in his veins and , Ferment it was a fear about him
than he can ever on an understanding of the deep Wisdom of Proverbs and formulas will be lost,
which kept the old book.

Sometimes he turned his pale face into the back room, staring mindlessly
into the corner, where the morose figure of his master in front of
a low herd between a glowing bulb and fiddling jars, and sometimes,
when the bats vorueberstrichen to the windows, saw He longingly out
into the moonlit night, the outside was like a charm over the fields.

Besides the master of the Kraeuterfrau crouched on the ground. She had the gray house cat on the lap
and he gently dusted the sparks from the fur.

Sometimes, when it quite pleasant crackle and the animal meowed before pleasing horror, the
Master reached back to caress him coughing and said: "The cat is
the companion of the wise!"

Suddenly, even from outside, from the ridge of the roof, which was
below the window, an elongated yearning sound, as of all the animals
only the cat and only in the Lenze powerful.

The cat sat up and dug his claws into the apron of the old woman. Still once outside it said. As
the animal ran with a rough set foot on the ground and will Hinzelmeiers shoulders through the
window to the outside, the glass shards sounding behind him flew.

A sweeter Primelduft ran the train into the room. Hinzelmeier sprang up. "It's spring, Master, "cried
he threw his chair back.

The old man lowered his nose even deeper into the crucible. Hinzelmeier approached him and grabbed
him on the shoulder. "Do you hear, Master?"

The master grabbed the mixed gray beard and stared at the boy-bloed
its green glasses on.

"The ice will burst!" Hinzelmeier cried, "it rings in the air!"

The master took him around the wrist and began to count the Pulsschlaege. "Ninety-six!" But
he said concern .-- Hinzelmeier ignoring it, but asked for his dismissal; and even in the
same hour.

Since the master was called to take him stick and knapsack and went with him before the front
door, from where they could go far into the country. The plane was unpredictable in clear moonlight
to her feet.

Here they stood, the face of the master was furrowed of a thousand
wrinkles, his back was bowed, his beard hung down over his brown robe
down, he looked out think other like old.

Also Hinzelmeiers face was bare, but his eyes lit up.

"Your time is up," the master said to him.

"Kneel down, that you may be absolved! Then he pulled a white chopsticks out of the sleeves
and the knee ends three times to the neck touching, he said:

"The word is given under the spirits, call it art into life, So you're
the master.

It is available in any kingdom. It is a name, a mist, to find and create at the same time, This
is the art! "

Then he told him to get up. A shiver shot through the young man as he aged into solemn Face of
the master looked up. He took stick and knapsack from the floor and wanted to go from there, but
the master said, "Forget the ravens!" He put his fist in the lean
Beard and a black hair pulled out.

He blew through his fingers, as it swung as a raven in the air.

Now, he waved his wand in a circle around his head and waved as he
flew the Raven, then He stretched out his arm and the bird perched
on his fist.

Then he raised the green Glasses from his nose, and while he stuck to the raven beak, he said:

"Ways
shalt thou have, thou shalt Krahirius hot! -

Then she cried the raven "krahira krahira!" and jumped with outstretched
wings on Hinzelmeiers Shoulder.

The master said to this:

"Hiking and walking spell book you have now, and now enough!"

Then he pointed his finger down into the valley where the road ran
over the infinite plane and Hinzelmeier while, greeting the traveling
hat, went out in the Restoration Process, swung Krahirius up and flew
at his head.

The entrance to the Rose Garden

The sun was high in the sky.

Hinzelmeier had a short cut across a field with green Winter sowing taken that stretched before
him immeasurably. led to the end of that the track through an opening of the wall to a spacious
room addition and Hinzelmeier standing in front of the buildings of a large farm. It had rained
earlier, and now steaming Strohdaecher in the harsh Fruehlingssonne. He struck his walking stick
into the ground and looked First up to the house, where a people are being driven by sparrows.
Suddenly saw he rise from one of the two chimneys a brilliant white disk in the air, slow down and
turn in the sunshine fall on it again in the chimney.

Hinzelmeier took out his pocket watch. "It's noon!" he said, "they baked pancakes." - A sweet fragrance
spread, and then climbed up into the sunshine pancake and fell back
after a short while in the chimney.

Hunger is not; Hinzelmeier entered the house to pass through a wide corridor in a high, spacious
kitchen, such as the manner to be in the larger farms.

By the hearth, a light was burning on the brushwood fire, stood a burly farmer, and put the
dough in the sizzling pan.

Krahirius who flew silently along behind, sat on the hearth, mantle,
while Hinzelmeier asked if he does it for love or money can get a
meal here.

"This is not a pub!" the woman said, waving her ladle that the pancakes crackling went up in
the black chimney and after a while with the top side in the Pan
back clapped.

Hinzelmeier reached for his stick, he had placed at the entrance to
the door: but the old woman drove the fork into the cake and clapped
him quickly to a bowl.

"Well, ! Now, "she said," it was not meant, he translated only;. Is just a complete "Then
they pushed him a wooden chair at the kitchen table and put the steaming cake together Bread and a jug
of wine, young country under him.

That made Hinzelmeier put up and soon the rough food and a good part of the solid Rye bread consumed.
Then he put the jug to his lips and took a hearty train on the health of the elderly and then afterwards
to his own health or some other.

This made him so proud that he uplift all like to sing by themselves. "He's a funny ! Man,
"cried the old woman across from her herd Hinzelmeier nodded. He fell at once all the songs again,
he heard ages ago in his parents' home by his beautiful mother had.

Then he sang, one after the other:

"It is because the nightingale sang all night, From her sweet sound,

There are by Hall and jumped echo the roses.

She was otherwise a wild blood, Now she goes deep in thought, carries in his hand the summer
hat, and still tolerate the sun glow And do not start something.

It is because the nightingale sang all night!

"-

As was in the wall opposite the hearth, among the ranks of the bright pewter plates, a Schiebefensterchen
withdrawn and a beautiful blond girl, it might be the landlord's daughter, put curious head into
the kitchen.

Hinzelmeier, the clatter of the windows had heard heard, singing and
let his eyes wander to the walls of the kitchen, over the churn and
the bare Cheese and kettle over the broad backs of the elderly to
the open Schiebefensterchen where They were caught at two other young
eyes.

The girl blushed .-- "He sings beautiful!" she said finally.

"I was just so," replied Hinzelmeier. "I sing nothing else."

Then both were silent for a while and you only heard the hissing of the frying pan and the patter
the pancakes. "Caspar sings beautiful too!" lifted the girl again.

"Well-true!"
Hinzelmeier said.

"Yes," said the girl, "but as nice as he does,
he's not yet. Where then has it beautiful song from? "

Hinzelmeier
did not answer, but was overturned on a tub, under the the sliding
window, stood looking at the girls passing in the chamber. Inside
was full of sunshine. On the red tiles of the hall were the shadows
of carnations and Rosenstoecken which side want to stand in front
of a window. Suddenly in the background of the chamber, a door was
flung open. The Fruehlingswind in. roared and ripped the girl a blue
silk ribbon on the hood latch; he propelled through the sliding window,
and drove his prey orbiting around in the kitchen. Hinzelmeier but
then threw his hat and caught it like a summer bird.

The window was
a little high. He wanted it up long the girl, she bent to the of it,
since both take our heads together that there was a crash. The girls
screamed; rattled the tin plates, Hinzelmeier was very confused.

"He
even has a brave mind!" said the girl with her hand and wiped the
tears of the cheeks. But Hinzelmeier the hair from his forehead and
into her hearty Face looked as she lowered her eyes and said, "He
has done it but no harm?"

Hinzelmeier laughed. "No, miss!" he cried
- he did not know himself how he was at once had to think - "Take
me not amiss, but it has certainly been a treasure?"

She put his
fist under his chin and tried to look at him defiantly, but her eyes
remained to its slopes. "He babbles well," she said softly.

Hinzelmeier
shook his head, there was silence between the two.

"Evening!" Hinzelmeier
said after a while, "I want to bring you the tape in the chamber!"

The
girl nodded. 

"Where is because but the way?"

He sounded in my ears:
"Sometimes even the window" - that was the voice of his mother. He
saw her sitting on his bed, he saw her smile, he felt suddenly as
though it were in a rosy mist of hereinzog from the open sliding window
in the kitchen. He joined back to the tub and put his hands around
the neck of the girl. As he looked through the Kammertuer open into
a garden, and in it stood the blooming like a red Rosenbuesche Sea
and sang in the distance Crystalline Maedchenstimmen:

"Rinke, cirrus,
Rosenschein, Tu on you and lock ourselves in" -

Hinzelmeier urged
the girl gently back into the chamber and put his hands on the Window
sill, hineinzuschwingen around with a set, when he heard it: "krahira,
krahira!" buzzing over his head, and before he knew it, let the raven
from the green glasses the air and fall straight on his nose. Just
as in a dream he saw the girl's arms reach out to him, was then suddenly
everything vanished from his eyes, but in more Distance he looked
through the green glasses, a dark figure in a deep rock gorge sit
which with a crowbar eager to drill into the ground seemed. Some of that time Dan Barry was
in the room, sitting through long intervals, watching her with lynx-eyed attention. Very rarely
did he speak--almost never, and she could have numbered upon her two hands the words he had
spoken--ay, and she could have repeated them one by one. Now and again he rose and went out,
and the wolf-dog went with him each time. But towards the last Black Bart preferred to stay
in the room, crouched in front of her and blinking at the fire, as if he knew that each time
his master would return to the fire. Then, why leave the pleasant warmth for the chilly greyness
of the day outside?

There he remained, stirring only now and then to lift a clumsy paw and brush it across his
eyes in an oddly human gesture. Once or twice, also, he lifted that great, scarred head and
laid it on her knees, looking curiously from her busy hands to her face, and from her face
back again to her work, until, having apparently assured himself that all was well, he dropped
his head again and lay once more motionless. She could see him open a listless eye when the
master entered the room again. And with each coming of Dan Barry she felt again surrounded
as if by invisible arms. Something was prying at her, striving to win a secret from her.

As the day wore on, a great, singing happiness rose in her throat, and at about the same time
she heard a faint sound, impalpable, from the farther side of the room where Dan Barry sat.
He was whistling.

A simple thing for a man to do, to be sure, but the astonishment of it nearly stopped the heart
of Kate Cumberland. For in all her life she had never before heard him whistle except when
he was in the open, and preferably when he was astride of the strength and the speed of Satan,
with Black Bart scouting swiftly and smoothly ahead. But now he whistled here by the warmth
of the fire. To be sure the sound was small and thin, but there was such music in it as she
had never heard before. It was so thin that it was almost ghostly, as if the soul of wild Paganini
played here on a muted violin. No tune that might be repeated, but as always when she heard
it, a picture rose before the eyes of Kate. It wavered at first against the yellow glow of
the firelight. Then it quite shut out all else.

It was deep night, starry night. The black horse and his rider wound up a deep ravine. To one
side a bold mountain tumbled up to an infinite height, bristling with misshapen trees here
and there, and losing its head against the very stars. On the other side were jagged hills,
all carved in the solid rock. And down the valley, between the mountains and the stars, blew
a soft wind; as if that wind made the music. They were climbing up, up, up, and now they reach--the
music rising also to a soft but triumphant outburst--a high plateau. They were pressed up against
the heart of the sky. The stars burned low, and low. Around them the whole earth seemed in
prospect at their feet. The moon burst through a mass of clouds, and she saw, far off, a great
river running silver through the night.

Happy? Ay, and he was happy too, and his happiness was one with hers. He was not even looking
out the window while he whistled, but his eyes were fixed steadily, unchangingly, upon her face.

It was then that they heard it: "Dan! Dan Barry! Come out!"

A hoarse, ringing cry, as of one who is shouting against a great wind: "Dan! Dan Barry! Come out!"

Dan Barry was on his feet and gliding to the wall, where he took down his belt from a nail
and buckled it swiftly around him. And Kate ran to the window with the wolf-dog snarling beside
her and saw standing in front of the house, his hat off, his black hair wildly tumbled, and
two guns in his hands, Buck Daniels! Behind him the tall bay mare shook with her panting and
glistened with the sweat of the long ride.

She heard a scratching next and saw the wolf-dog rear up and paw at the door. Once through
that door and he would be at the throat of the man outside, she knew. Nor he alone, for Dan
Barry was coming swiftly across the room with that strange, padding step. He had no eye for
her. He was smiling, and she had rather have seen him in a cursing fury than to see this smile.
It curled the upper lip with something like a sneer; and she caught the white glint of his
teeth; the wolf-dog snarled back over his shoulder to hurry his master. It was the crisis which
she had known all day was coming, sooner or later. She had only prayed that it might be delayed
for a little time. And confronting the danger was like stepping into the path of runaway horses.
Fear ruled her with an iron hand, and she swayed back against the wall and supported herself
with an outstretched hand.

What was there to be done? If she stepped in between him and his man, he would brush her aside
from his path and out of his life forever. If he went on to his vengeance he would no less
be started on the path which led around the world away from her. The law would be the hound
which pursued him and relentlessly nipped at his heels--an eternal terror and unrest. No thought
of Buck Daniels who had done so much for her. She cast his services out of her mind with the
natural cruelty of woman. Her whole thought was, selfishly, for the man before her, and for
herself.

He was there--his hand was upon the knob of the door. And then she remembered how the teeth
of Black Bart had closed over her arm--and how they had not broken even the skin. In an instant
she was pressed against the door before Dan Barry--her arms outstretched.

He fell back the slightest bit before her, and then he came again and brushed her slowly, gently,
to one side, with an irresistible strength. She had to meet his eyes now--there was no help
for it--and she saw there that swirl of yellow light--that insatiable hunger. And she knew,
fully and bitterly, that she had failed. With the wolf-dog, indeed, she had conquered, but
the man escaped her. If time had been granted her she would have won, she knew, but the hand
of Buck Daniels, so long her ally, had destroyed her chances. It was his hand now which shook
the knob of the door, and she turned with a sob of despair to face the new danger.

In her wildest dreams she had never visioned Buck Daniels transformed like this. She knew that
in his past, as one of those long-riders who roam the mountain-desert, their hand against the
hands of every man, Buck Daniels had been known and feared by the strongest. But all she had
seen of Buck Daniels had been gentleness itself. Yet what faced her as the door flew wide was
a nightmare thing with haggard face and shadow-buried, glittering eyes--unshaven, unkempt of
hair, his shirt open at the throat, his great hands clenched for the battle. The wolf-dog,
at that familiar sight, whined a low greeting, but with a glance at his master knew that there
was a change--the old alliance was broken--so he bared his white teeth and changed his whine
to a snarl of hate.

Then a strange terror struck Kate Cumberland. She had never dreamed that she could fear for
Dan Barry at the hands of any man, but now the desperate resolve which breathed from every
line of Buck Daniels, chilled her blood at the heart. She sprang back before Dan Barry. Facing
him, she saw that demoniac glitter of yellow rising momently brighter in his eyes, and he was
smiling. No execration or loud voiced curse could have contained the distilled malignancy of
that smile. All this she caught in a single glimpse. The next instant she had whirled and stood
before Dan, shielding him with outspread arms and facing Buck Daniels. The latter thrust back
into the holster the gun which he had drawn when he entered the room.

"Stand away from him, Kate," he commanded, and his eyes went past her to dwell on the face
of Barry. "Stand away from him. It's been comin' for a long time, and now it's here. Barry
I'm takin' no start on you. Stand away from the girl and pull your gun--and I'll pump you full
of lead."

The softest of soft voices murmured behind her: "I been waitin' for you, Buck, days and days
and days. I ain't never been so glad to see anybody!"

And she felt Barry slip shadowlike to one side. She sprang in front of him again with a wild cry.

"Buck!" she begged, "don't shoot!"

Laughter, ringing and unhuman, filled the throat of Buck Daniels.

"Is it him you're beggin' for?" he sneered at her. "Is it him you got your fears for? Ain't
you got a word of pity for poor Buck Daniels that sneaked off like a whipped puppy? Bah! Dan
Barry, the time is come. I been leadin' the life of a houn' dog for your sake. But it's ended.
Pull your gun and get out from behind the skirts of that girl!"

As long as they faced each other with the challenge in their eyes, nothing on earth could avert
the fight, she knew, but if she could delay them for one moment--she felt that swift moving
form behind her slipping away from behind her--she could follow Barry's movements by the light
in Daniels' eyes.

"Buck!" she cried, "for God's sake--for my sake turn away from him--and--roll another cigarette!"

For she remembered the story--how Daniels had turned under the very nose of danger and done
this insane thing in the saloon at Brownsville and in her despair she could think of no other
appeal.

It was the very strangeness of it that gave it point. Buck Daniels turned on his heel.

"It's the last kindness I do you, Dan," he said, with his broad back to them. "But before you
die you got to know why I'm killin' you. I'm going to roll one cigarette and smoke it and while
I smoke it I'm goin' to tell you the concentrated truth about your worthless self and when
I'm done smokin' I'm goin' to turn around and drop you where you stand. D'ye hear?"

"They's no need of waitin'," answered the soft voice of Barry. "Talkin' don't mean much."

But Kate Cumberland turned and faced him. He was fairly a-quiver with eagerness and the hate
welled and blazed and flickered in his eyes; his face was pale--very pale--and it seemed to
her that she could make out in the pallor the print of the fingers of Buck Daniels and that
blow those many days before. And she feared him as she had never feared him before--yet she
blocked his way still with the outspread arms.

They could hear the crinkle of the cigarette paper as Buck rolled his smoke.

"No," said Buck, his voice suddenly altered to an almost casual moderation, "talk don't mean
nothin' to you. Talk is human, and nothin' human means nothin' to you. But I got to tell you
why you ought to die, Barry.

"I started out this mornin' hatin' the ground you walked on, but now I see that they ain't
no use to hate you. Is they any use hatin' a mountain-lion that kills calves? No, you don't
hate it, but you get a gun and trail it and shoot it down. And that's the way with you."

They heard the scratch of his match.

"That's the way with you. I got my back to you right now because if I looked you in the eye
I couldn't let you live no more'n I could let a mountain-lion live. I know you're faster with
your gun than I am and stronger than I am, and made to fight. But I know I'm going to kill
you. You've done your work--you've left hell on all sides of you--it's your time to die. I
know it! You been lyin' like a snake in the rocks with your poison ready for any man that walks
past you. Now your poison is about used up."

He paused, and then when he spoke again there was a ring of exultation in his voice: "I tell
you, Dan, I don't fear you, and I know that the bullet in this gun here on my hips is the one
that's goin' to tear your heart out. I know it!"

Something like a sob came from the lips of Dan Barry. His hands moved out towards Buck Daniels
as though he were plucking something from the empty air.

"You've said enough," he said. "You said plenty. Now turn around and fight!"

And Kate Cumberland stepped back, out of line of the two. She knew that in what followed she
could not play the part of the protector or the delayer. Here they stood, hungry, for battle,
and there was no power in her weak hands to separate them. She stood far back and fumbled with
her hands at the wall for support. She tried to close her eyes, but the fascination of the
horror forced her to watch against her strongest will. And the chief part of that dreadful
suspense lay in the even, calm voice of Buck Daniels as he went on: "I'll turn around and fight
soon enough. But Kate asked me to smoke another cigarette. I know what she means. She wants
me to leave you the way I done in the saloon that day. I ain't goin' to leave, Dan. But I'm
glad she asked me to turn away, because it gives me a chance to tell you some things you got
to know before you go west.

"Dan, you been like a fire that burns every hand that touches you." He inhaled a long breath
of smoke and blew it up towards the ceiling. "You've busted the heart of the friend that follered
you; you've busted the heart of the girl that loves you."

He paused again, for another long inhalation, and Kate Cumberland, staring in fearful suspense,
waiting for the instant when Buck should at last turn and when the shots should explode, saw
that the yellow glow was now somewhat misted in the eyes of Barry. He frowned, as one bewildered.

"Think of her, Dan!" went on Buck Daniels. "Think of her wasting herself on a no-good houn'
dog like you--a no-good wild wolf! My God A'mighty, she might of made some good man happy--some
man with a soul and a heart--but instead of that God sent you like a blast across her--you
with your damned soul of wind and your heart of stone! Think of it! When you see what you been,
Barry, I wonder you don't go out and take your own gun and blow off your head."

"Buck," called Dan Barry, "so help me God, if you don't turn your face to me--I'll shoot you
through the back!"

"I knew," said the imperturbable Daniels, "that you'd come to that in the end. You used to
fight like a man, but now you're followin' your instincts, and you fight like a huntin' wolf.
Look at the brute that's slinkin' up to me there! That's what you are. You kill for the sake
of killin'--like the beasts.

"If you was a man, could you treat me like you've done? Your damned cold heart and your yaller
eyes and all would of burned up in the barn the other night--you and your wolf and your damned
hoss. Why didn't I let you burn? Because I was a fool. Because I still thought they was something
of the man in you. But I seen afterwards what you was, and I rode off to get out of your way--to
keep your hands from gettin' red with my blood. And then you plan on follerin' me--damn you!--on
follerin' me!

"So that, Dan, is why I've come to put you out of the world--as I'm goin' to do now! Once you
hated to give pain, and if you hurt people it was because you couldn't help it. But now you
live on torturin' others. Barry, pull your gun!"

And as he spoke, he whirled, the heavy revolver leaping into his hand.

Still Kate Cumberland could not close her eyes on the horror. She could not even cry out; she
was frozen.

But there was no report--no spurt of smoke--no form of a man stumbling blindly towards death.
Dan Barry stood with one hand pressed over his eyes and the other dangled at his side, harmless,
while he frowned in bewilderment at the floor.

He said slowly, at length: "Buck, I kind of think you're right. They ain't no use in me. I
been rememberin', Buck, how you sent Kate to me when I was sick."

There was a loud clatter; the revolver dropped from the hand of Buck Daniels.

The musical voice of Dan Barry murmured again: "And I remember how you stood up to Jim Silent,
for my sake. Buck, what's come between us since them days? You hit me a while back, and since
then I been wantin' your blood--but hearin' you talk now, somehow--I feel sort of lost and
lonesome--like I'd thrown somethin' away that I valued most."

Buck Daniels threw out his great arms and his voice was broken terribly.

"Oh, God A'mighty, Dan," he cried, "jest take one step back to me and I'll come all the way
around the world to meet you!"

He stumbled across the floor and grasped at the hand of Barry, for a mist had half-blinded
his eyes.

"Dan," he pleaded, "ain't things as they once was? D'you forgive me?"

"Why, Buck," murmured Dan Barry, in that same bewildered fashion, "seems like we was bunkies once."

"Dan," muttered Buck Daniels, choking, "Dan----" but he dared not trust his voice further,
and turning, he fairly fled from the room.

The dazed eyes of Dan Barry followed him. Then they moved until they encountered the face of
Kate Cumberland. A shock, as if of surprise, widened the lids. For a long moment they stared
in silence, and then he began to walk, very slowly, a step at a time, towards the girl. Now,
as he faced her, she saw that there was no longer a hint of the yellow in his eyes, but he
stepped closer and closer; he was right before her, watching her with an expression of mute
suffering that made her heart grow large.

He said, more to himself than to her: "Seems like I been away a long time."

"A very long time," she whispered.

He drew a great breath.

"Is it true, what Buck said? About you?"

"Oh, my dear, my dear!" she cried. "Don't you see?"

He started a little, and taking both her hands he made her face the dull light from the windows.

"Seems like you're kind of pale, Kate."

"The colour went while I waited for you, Dan."

"But there comes a touch of red--like morning--in your throat, and runnin' up your cheeks."

"Don't you see? It's because you've come back!"

He closed his eyes and murmured: "I remember we was close--closer than this. We were sittin'
here--in this room--by a fire. And then something called me out and I follered it."

"The wild geese--yes."

"Wild geese?" he repeated blankly, and then shook his head. "How could wild geese call me?
But things happened. I was kept away. Sometimes I wanted to come back to you, but somehow I
could never get started. Was it ten years ago that I left?"

"Months--months longer than years."

"What is it?" he asked. "I been watchin' you, and waitin' to find out what was different in
you. Black Bart seen something in you. I dunno what. Today I sort of guessed what it is. I
can feel it now. It's something like a pain. It starts sort of in the stomach, Kate. It's like
bein' away from a place where you want to be. Queer, ain't it? I ain't far from you. I've got
your hands in mine, but somehow you don't feel near. I want to walk--a long ways--closer. And
the pain keeps growin'."

His voice fell away to a murmur, and now a deadly silence lay between them, and it seemed as
if lights were varying upon their faces, so swift and subtle were the changes of expression.
And they drew closer by imperceptible degrees. So his arms, fumbling, found their away about
her, drew her closer, till her head drooped back, and her face was close beneath his.

"Was it true," he whispered, "what Buck said?"

"There's nothing true except that we're together."

"But your eyes are brimful of tears!"

"The same pain you feel, Dan; the same loneliness and the hurt."

"But it's going now. I feel as if I'd been riding three days without more'n enough water to
moisten my tongue every hour; with the sand white hot, and my hoss staggerin', and the sun
droppin' closer and closer till the mountains are touched with white fire. Then I come, in
the evenin', to a valley with cool shadows beginning to slip across from the western side,
and I stand in the shadow and feel the red-hot blood go smashin', smashin', smashin' in my
temples--and then--a sound of runnin' water somewhere up the hill-side. Runnin', cool, fresh,
sparkling water whispering over the rocks. Ah, God, that's what it means to me to stand here
close to you, Kate!

"And it's like standin' up in the mornin' on the top of a high hill and seein' the light jump
up quick in the east, and there lies all the world at my feet, mile after mile of it--they's
a river like silver away off yonder--and they's range after range walkin' off into a blue nothing.
That's what it's like to stand here and look down into them blue eyes of yours, Kate--miles
and miles into 'em, till I feel as if I seen your heart beneath. And they's the rose of the
mornin' on your cheeks, and the breath of the mornin' stirrin' between your lips, and the light
of the risin' sun comes flarin' in your eyes. And I own the world--I own the world.'

"Two burnin' pieces of wood, that's you and me, and when I was away from you the fire went
down to a smoulder; but now that we're close a wind hits us, and the flames come together and
rise and jump and twine together. Two pieces of burnin' wood, but only one flame--d'you feel
it?--Oh, Kate, our bodies is ashes and dust, and all that's worth while is that flame blowin'
up from us, settin' the world on fire!"

CHAPTER XXXV

PALE ANNIE

Even in Elkhead there were fires this day. In the Gilead saloon one might have thought that
the liquid heat which the men imbibed would serve in place of stoves, but the proprietor, "Pale
Annie," had an eye to form, and when the sky was grey he always lighted the stove.

"Pale Annie" he was called because his real name was Anderson Hawberry Sandringham. That name
had been a great aid to him when he was an undertaker in Kansas City; but Anderson Hawberry
Sandringham had fallen from the straight and narrow path of good undertakers some years before
and he had sought refuge in the mountain-desert, where most things prosper except sheriffs
and grass. He was fully six inches more than six feet in height and his face was so long and
pale that even Haw-Haw Langley seemed cheerful beside the ex-undertaker. In Kansas City this
had been much prized, for that single face could lend solemnity to any funeral. In Elkhead
it was hardly less of an asset.

People came out of curiosity to see Pale Annie behind the bar with his tall silk hat--which
he could never bring himself to lay aside--among the cobwebs of the rafters. They came out
of curiosity and they remained to drink--which is a habit in the mountain-desert. A travelling
drummer or a patent medicine man had offered Pale Annie a handsome stake to simply go about
with him and lend the sanction of his face to the talk of the drummer, but Pale Annie had discovered
a veritable philosopher's stone in Elkhead and he was literally turning whiskey into gold.

This day was even more prosperous than usual for Pale Annie, for the grey weather and the chilly
air made men glad of the warmth, both external and internal, which Pale Annie possessed in
his barroom. His dextrous hands were never for a moment still at the bar, either setting out
drinks or making change, except when he walked out and threw a fresh feed into the fire, and
stirred up the ruddy depths of the stove with a tall poker. It was so long, indeed, that it
might have served even Pale Annie for a cane and it was a plain untapered bar of iron which
the blacksmith had given him as the price of a drink, on a day. He needed a large poker, however,
for there was only the one stove in the entire big room, and it was a giant of its kind, as
capacious as a hogshead. This day Pale Annie kept it red hot, so that the warmth might penetrate
to the door on the one hand and to the rear of the room where the tables and chairs were, on
the other.

Since Pale Annie's crowd took little exercise except for bending their elbows now and again,
and since the majority of them had been in the place fully half the day, by ten in the evening
sounds of hilarity began to rise from the saloon. Solemn-faced men who had remained in their
places for hour after hour, industriously putting away the red-eye, now showed symptoms of
life. Some of them discovered hitherto hidden talents as singers, and they would rise from
their places, remove their hats, open their bearded mouths, and burst into song. An antiquarian
who had washed gold in '49 and done nothing the rest of his life save grow a prodigious set
of pure white whiskers, sprang from his place and did a hoe-down that ravished the beholders.
Thrice he was compelled to return to the floor; and in the end his performance was only stopped
by an attack of sciatica. Two strong men carried him back to his chair and wept over him, and
there was another drink all around.

In this scene of universal joy there were two places of shadow. For at the rear end of the
room, almost out of reach of the lantern-light, sat Haw-Haw Langley and Mac Strann. The more
Haw-Haw Langley drank the more cadaverous grew his face, until in the end it was almost as
solemn as that of Pale Annie himself; as for Mac Strann, he seldom drank at all.

A full hour had just elapsed since either of them spoke, yet Haw-Haw Langley said, as if in
answer to a remark: "He's heard too much about you, Mac. He ain't no such fool as to come to
Elkhead."

"He ain't had time," answered the giant.

"Ain't had time? All these days?"

"Wait till the dog gets well. He'll follow the dog to Elkhead."

"Why, Mac, the trail's been washed out long ago. That wind the other day would of knocked out
any trail less'n a big waggon."

"It won't wash out the trail for that dog," said Mac Strann calmly.

"Well," snarled Haw-Haw, "I got to be gettin' back home pretty soon. I ain't rollin' in coin
the way you are, Mac."

The other returned no answer, but let his eyes rove vacantly over the room, and since his head
was turned the other way, Haw-Haw Langley allowed a sneer to twist at his lips for a moment.

"If I had the price," he said, "we'd have another drink."

"I ain't drinkin'," answered the giant monotonously.

"Then I'll go up and bum one off'n Pale Annie. About time he come through with a little charity."

So he unfurled his length and stalked through the crowd up to the bar. Here he leaned and confidentially
whispered in the ear of Pale Annie.

"Partner, I been sprinklin' dust for a long time in here, and there ain't been any reward.
I'm dry, Annie."

Pale Annie regarded him with grave disapproval.

"My friend," he said solemnly, "liquor is the real root of all evil. For my part, I quench
my thirst with water. They's a tub over there in the corner with a dipper handy. Don't mention it."

"I didn't thank you," said Haw-Haw Langley furiously. "Damn a tight-wad, say I!"

The long hand of Pale Annie curled affectionately around the neck of an empty bottle.

"I didn't quite gather what you said?" he remarked courteously, and leaned across the bar--within
striking distance.

"I'll tell you later," remarked Haw-Haw sullenly, and turned his shoulder to the bar.

As he did so two comparatively recent arrivals came up beside him. They were fresh from a couple
of months of range-finding, and they had been quenching a concentrated thirst by concentrated
effort. Haw-Haw Langley looked them over, sighed with relief, and then instantly produced Durham
and the brown papers. He paused in the midst of rolling his cigarette and offered them to the
nearest fellow.

"Smoke?" he asked.

Now a man of the mountain-desert knows a great many things, but he does not know how to refuse.
The proffer of a gift embarrasses him, but he knows no way of avoiding it; also he never rests
easy until he has made some return.

"Sure," said the man, and gathered in the tobacco and papers. "Thanks!"

He covertly dropped the cigarette which he had just lighted, and stepped on it, then he rolled
another from Haw-Haw's materials. The while, he kept an uneasy eye on his new companion.

"Drinkin'?" he asked at length.

"Not jest now," said Haw-Haw carelessly.

"Always got room for another," protested the other, still more in earnest as he saw his chance
of a return disappearing.

"All right, then," said Haw-Haw. "Jest one more."

And he poured a glass to the brim, waved it gracefully towards the others without spilling
a drop, and downed it at a gulp.

"Ben in town long?" he asked.

"Not long enough to find any action," answered the other.

The eye of Haw-Haw Langley brightened. He looked over the two carefully. The one had black
hair and the other red, but they were obviously brothers, both tall, thick-shouldered, square-jawed,
and pug-nosed. There was Irish blood in that twain; the fire in their eyes could have come
from only one place on earth. And Haw-Haw grinned and looked down the length of the room to
where Mac Strann sat, a heavy, inert mass, his fleshy forehead puckered into a half-frown of
animal wistfulness.

"You ain't the only ones," he said to his companion at the bar. "They's a man in town who says
they don't turn out any two men in this range that could give him action."

"The hell!" grunted he of the red hair. And he looked down to his blunt-knuckled hands.

"'S matter of fact," continued Haw-Haw easily, "he's right here now!"

He looked again towards Mac Strann and remembered once more the drink which Mac might so easily
have purchased for him.

"It ain't Pale Annie, is it?" asked the black haired man, casting a dubious glance up and down
the vast frame of the undertaker.

"Him? Not half!" grinned Haw-Haw. "It's a fet feller down to the end of the bar. I guess he's
been drinkin' some. Kind of off his nut."

He indicated Mac Strann.

"He looks to me," said the red-haired man, setting his jaw, "like a feller that ain't any too
old to learn one more thing about the range in these parts."

"He looks to me," chimed in the black haired brother, "like a feller that might be taught something
right here in Pale Annie's barroom. Anyway, he's got room at his table for two more."

So saying the two swallowed their drinks and rumbled casually down the length of the room until
they came to the table where Mac Strann sat. Haw-Haw Langley followed at a discreet distance
and came within earshot to hear the deep voice of Mac Strann rumbling: "Sorry, gents, but that
chair is took."

The black-haired man sank into the indicated chair.

"You're right," he announced calmly. "Anybody could see with half an eye that you ain't a fool.
It's took by me!"

And he grinned impudently in the face of Mac Strann. The latter, who had been sitting with
slightly bent head, now raised it and looked the pair over carelessly; there was in his eye
the same dumb curiosity which Haw-Haw Langley had seen many a time in the eye of a bull, leader
of the herd.

The giant explained carefully: "I mean, they's a friend of mine that's been sittin' in that chair."

"If I ain't your friend," answered the black-haired brother instantly, "it ain't any fault
of mine. Lay it up to yourself, partner!"

Mac Strann stretched out his hand on the surface of the table.

He said: "I got an idea you better get out of that chair."

The other turned his head slowly on all sides and then looked Mac Strann full in the face.

"Maybe they's something wrong with my eyes," he said, "but I don't see no reason."

The little dialogue had lasted long enough to focus all eyes on the table at the end of the
room, and therefore there were many witnesses to what followed. The arm of Mac Strann shot
out; his hand fastened in the collar of the black-haired man's shirt, and the latter was raised
from his seat and propelled to one side by a convulsive jerk. He probably would have been sent
crashing into the bar had not his shirt failed under the strain. It ripped in two at the shoulders,
and the seeker after action, naked to the waist, went reeling back to the middle of the room,
before he gained his balance. After him went Mac Strann with an agility astonishing in that
squat, formless bulk. His long arms were outstretched and his fingers tensed, and in his face
there was an uncanny joy; his lip had lifted in that peculiarly disheartening sneer.

He was not a pace from him of the black hair when a yell of rage behind him and the other brother
leaped through the air and landed on Mac Strann's back. He doubled up, slipped his arms behind
him, and the next instant, without visible reason, the red-headed man hurtled through the air
and smashed against the bar with a jolt that set the glassware shivering and singing. Then
he relaxed on the floor, a twisted and foolish looking mass.

As for the seeker after action, he had at first reached after his revolver, but he changed
his mind at the last instant and instead picked up the great poker which leaned against the
stove. It was a ponderous weapon and he had to wield it in both hands. As he swung it around
his head there was a yell from men ducking out of the way, and Pale Annie curled his hand again
around his favorite empty bottle. He had no good opportunity to demonstrate its efficiency,
however. Mac Strann, crouching in the position from which he had catapulted the red-haired
man, cast upwards a single glance at the other brother, and then he sprang in. The poker hissed
through the air with the vigour of a strong man's arms behind it and it would have cracked
the head of Mac Strann like an empty egg-shell if it had hit its mark. But it was heaved too
high, and Mac Strann went in like a football player rushing the line, almost doubled up against
the floor as he ran. His shoulders struck the other hardly higher than the knees, and they
went down together, but so doing the head of Mac Strann's victim cracked against the floor,
and he also was still.

The exploit was greeted by a yell of applause and then someone proposed a cheer, and it was
given. It died off short on the lips of the applauders, however, for it was seen that Mac Strann
was not yet done with his work, and he went about it in a manner which made men sober suddenly
and exchange glances.

First the stranger dragged the two brothers together, laying one of them face down on the floor.
The second he placed over the first, back to back. Next he picked up the long poker from the
floor and slipped it under the head and down to the neck of the first man. The bystanders watched
in utter silence, with a touch of horror coming now in their eyes.

Now Mac Strann caught the ends of the iron and began to twist up on them. There was no result
at first. He refreshed his hold and tried again. The sleeves of his shirt were seen to swell
and then grow hard and taut with vast play of muscle beneath. His head bowed lower between
his shoulders, and those shoulders trembled, and the muscles over them quivered like heat-waves
rising of a spring morning. There was a creaking, now, and then the iron was seen to shiver
and then bend, slowly, and once it was wrenched out of the horizontal, the motion was more
and more rapid. Until, when the giant was done with his labor, the ends of the iron over-lapped
around the necks of the two luckless brothers. Mac Strann stepped back and surveyed his work;
the rest of the room was in silence, saving that the red-headed man was coming back to consciousness
and now writhed and groaned feebly. He could not rise; that was manifest, for the thick band
of iron tied his neck to the neck of his brother.

Upon this scene Mac Strann gazed with a thoughtful air and then stepped to the side of the
room where stood a bucket of dirty water, recently used for mopping behind the bar. This he
caught up, returned, and dashed the black, greasy water over the pair.

If it had been electricity it could not have operated more effectively. The two awoke with
one mind, and with a tremendous spluttering and cursing struggled to regain their feet. It
was no easy thing, however, for when one stood up the other slipped and in his fall involved
the brother. In the meantime it made a jest exactly suited to the mind of Elkhead, and shrieks
of hysterical laughter rewarded their struggles. Until at length they sat solemnly, back to
back, easing the pressure of the iron as best they might with their hands. Assembled Elkhead
reeled about the room, drunken with laughter. But Mac Strann went quietly back to his table
and paid no attention to the scene.

There is an end to all good things, however, and finally the two brothers concerted action
together, rose, and then side-stepped towards the door, dripping the mop-water at every step.
Obviously they were bound for the blacksmith's to lose their collar; and everyone in the saloon
knew that the blacksmith was not in town.

The old man who had done the hoe-down hobbled to the end of the barroom and before the table
of Mac Strann made a speech to the effect that Elkhead had everything it needed except laughter,
that Mac Strann had come to their assistance in that respect, and that if he, the old man,
had the power, he would pension such an efficient jester and keep him permanently in the town.
To all of this Mac Strann paid not the slightest heed, but with his fleshy brow puckered considered
the infinite distance. Even the drink which Pale Annie, grateful for the averted riot, placed
on the table before him, Mac Strann allowed to stand untasted. And it was private stock!

It was at this time that Haw-Haw Langley made his way back to the table and occupied the contested
seat.

"That was a bum play," he said solemnly to Mac Strann. "When Barry hears about what you done
here to two men, d'you think that he'll ever hit your trail?"

The other started.

"I never thought about it," he murmured, his thick lips, as always, framing speech with difficulty.
"D'you s'pose I'd ought to go back to the Cumberland place for him?"

A yell rose at the farther end of the room.

"A wolf! Hey! Shoot the damn wolf!"

"You fool!" cried another. "He ain't skinny enough to be a wolf. Besides, whoever heard of
a tame wolf comin' into a barroom?"

Nevertheless many a gun was held in readiness, and the men, even the most drunken, fell back
to one side and allowed a free passage for the animal. It seemed, indeed, to be a wolf, and
a giant of its kind, and it slunk now with soundless step through the silence of the barroom,
glancing neither to right nor to left, until it came before the table of Mac Strann. There
it halted and slunk back a little, the upper lip lifted away from the long fangs, its eyes
glittered upon the face of the giant, and then it swung about and slipped out of the barroom
as it had come, in utter silence.

In the utter silence Mac Strann leaned across the table to Haw-Haw Langley.

"He's come alone this time," he said, "but the next time he'll bring his master with him. We'll
wait!"

The Adam's-apple rose and fell in the throat of Haw-Haw.

"We'll wait," he nodded, and he burst into the harsh, unhuman laughter which had given him
his name.

CHAPTER XXXVI

THE DISCOVERY OF LIFE

This is the letter which Swinnerton Loughburne received over the signature of Doctor Randall
Byrne. It was such a strange letter that between paragraphs Swinnerton Loughburne paced up
and down his Gramercy Park studio and stared, baffled, at the heights of the Metropolitan Tower.

"Dear Swinnerton,

"I'll be with you in good old Manhattan about as soon as you get this letter. I'm sending this
ahead because I want you to do me a favour. If I have to go back to those bare, blank rooms
of mine with the smell of chemicals drifting in from the laboratory, I'll--get drunk. That's all!"

Here Swinnerton Loughburne lowered the letter to his knees and grasped his head in both hands.
Next he turned to the end of the letter and made sure that the signature was "Randall Byrne."
He stared again at the handwriting. It was not the usual script of the young doctor. It was
bolder, freer, and twice as large as usual; there was a total lack of regard for the amount
of stationery consumed.

Shaking his head in bewilderment, Swinnerton Loughburne shook his fine grey head and read on:
"What I want you to do, is to stir about and find me a new apartment. Mind you, I don't want
the loft of some infernal Arcade building in the Sixties. Get me a place somewhere between
Thirtieth and Fifty-eighth. Two bed-rooms. I want a place to put some of the boys when they
drop around my way. And at least one servant's room. Also at least one large room where I can
stir about and wave my arms without hitting the chandelier. Are you with me?"

Here Swinnerton Loughburne seized his head between both hands again and groaned: "Dementia!
Plain and simple dementia! And at his age, poor boy!"

He continued: "Find an interior decorator. Not one of these fuzzy haired women-in-pants, but
a he-man who knows what a he-man needs. Tell him I want that place furnished regardless of
expense. I want some deep chairs that will hit me under the knees. I want some pictures on
the wall--but nothing out of the Eighteenth Century--no impressionistic landscapes--no girls
dolled up in fluffy stuff. I want some pictures I can enjoy, even if my maiden aunt can't.
There you are. Tell him to go ahead on those lines.

"In a word, Swinnerton, old top, I want to live. For about thirty years I've thought, and now
I know that there's nothing in it. All the thinking in the world won't make one more blade
of grass grow; put one extra pound on the ribs of a long-horn; and in a word, thinking is the
bunk, pure and simple!"

At this point Swinnerton Loughburne staggered to the window, threw it open, and leaned out
into the cold night. After a time he had strength enough to return to his chair and read through
the rest of the epistle without interruption.

"You wonder how I've reached the new viewpoint? Simply by seeing some concentrated life here
at the Cumberland ranch. My theories are blasted and knocked in the head--praise God!--and
I've brushed a million cobwebs out of my brain. Chemistry? Rot! There's another sort of chemistry
that works on the inside of a man. That's what I want to study. There are three great preliminary
essentials to the study:

   1st: How to box with a man.
   2nd: How to talk with a girl.
   3rd: How to drink old wine.

Try the three, Swinnerton; they aren't half bad. At first they may give you a sore jaw, an
aching heart, and a spinning head, but in the end they teach you how to keep your feet and fight!

"This is how my eyes were opened.

"When I came out to this ranch it was hard for me to ride a horse. So I've been studying how
it should be done. Among other things, you should keep your toes turned in, you know. And there
are many other things to learn.

"When I had mastered them one by one I went out the other day and asked to have a horse saddled.
It was done, and a lantern-jawed cowpuncher brought out a piebald gelding with long ears and
sleepy eyes. Not a lovely beast, but a mild one. So I went into the saddle according to theory--with
some slight hesitations here and there, planted my feet in the stirrups, and told the lantern-jawed
fellow to turn loose the head of the piebald. This was done. I shook the reins. The horse did
not move. I called to the brute by name. One ear wagged back to listen to me.

"I kicked the beast in the ribs. Unfortunately I had forgotten that long spurs were on my heels.
The horse was instantly aware of that fact, however. He leaped into a full gallop. A very jolty
process. Then he stopped--but I kept on going. A fence was in the way, so I was halted. Afterwards
the lantern-jawed man picked me up and offered to carry me back to the house or at least get
a wheelbarrow for me. I refused with some dignity. I remarked that I preferred walking, really,
and so I started out across the hills and away from the house. My head was sore; so were my
shoulders where I hit the fence; I began to think of the joy of facing that horse again, armed
with a club.

"It was evening--after supper, you see--and the light of the moon was already brighter than
the sunlight. And by the time I had crossed the first range of hills, it was quite dark. As
I walked I brooded upon many things. There were enough to disturb me.

"There was old Joe Cumberland, at death's door and beyond the reach of my knowledge; and he
had been taken away from death by the wild man, Dan Barry. There was the girl with the bright
hair--Kate Cumberland. In education, nothing; in brain, nothing; in experience, nothing; and
yet I was attracted. But she was not attracted in the least until along came the wild man again,
and then she fell into his arms--actually fought for him! Why? I could not tell. My name and
the things I have done and even my money, meant nothing to her. But when he came it was only
a glance, a word, a smile, and she was in his arms. I felt like Caligula. I wished the world
had only one neck, and I an axe. But why should I have felt depressed because of failures in
the eyes of these silly yokels? Not one of them could read the simplest chemical formula!

"All very absurd, you will agree, and you may get some inkling as to my state of mind while
I walked over those same dark hills. I seemed a part of that darkness. I looked up to the stars.
They were merely like the pages of a book. I named them off hand, one after the other, and
thought of their characteristics, their distances, their composition, and meditated on the
marvels the spectrum has made known to us. But no sooner did such a train of thoughts start
in my brain, than I again recurred to the girl, Kate Cumberland, and all I was aware of was
a pain at heart--something like homesickness. Very strange.

"She and the man are together constantly. The other day I was in Joseph Cumberland's room and
we heard whistling outside. The face of the old man lighted, 'They are together again,' he
said. 'How do you guess at that?' I asked. 'By the sound of his whistling,' he answered. 'For
he whistles as if he expected an answer--as if he were talking with someone.' And by the Lord,
the old man was right. It would never have occurred to me! It did not disappoint him, but put it not him.
Instead, he remained totally indifferent towards this city. For why it should provide a greater
enthusiasm, or an extension of his soul, that Here, the dimensions were more moved higher as
usual

He got into a car and drove until he saw modest streets. There, he rented and there he made the
evening even his luggage. It was first for him or the difficulty the language because of the
school, he knew how hot and modesty that wealth 'm not happy, but to take a supplement ticket
allowed him his knowledge or not. However, he soon found that confidence in your presentation and
consciousness weigh more like a haphazard Knowledge. He seemed to have a chance. Then he saw
one night in the harbor a child who was crying. He did not dare to ask why. He only gave him his
supper, which he held in his hand, the next morning and drove to
Milwaukee, because this city had become repugnant.

He tried there in the familiar forms come in: as teachers, kindergarten teachers, fire insurance
agent . . . but without success. He understood that these positions are sought to, just because
they known to be struck on the head, bought a blue linen suit and a nigger an oily cap and offered his
services as a perfect mechanic, chauffeur and mechanic. A Producer once asked: "Can you make
milk separator He replied that it was his specialty. The next day he learned that there are
metal structures with a simple mechanism, so that on the one hand, buttermilk, on the other syringe
out the butter. He made on the first day as much as the minimum number had to be the posting,
and got the Each five cents. As far as he presented the first four weeks more ready. Every day
he had a dollar. After four weeks, he complained that the work is too hard. It creates stronger
Work than the others and therefore less. He controlled and gave him
seven cents for the piece.

From that moment on, he made daily so much that he had three dollars.

After four months, we woke him at night.

He stood up and asked. "On! rapidly. . ., "Said to him.

With four moving van they raced through the city.

At last he could smell what was. Shortly after, he saw it too. A vast square houses on fire. Quick
cloths tied to them with red stars on the arm, and they took all the goods the value: safes
and pianos out. Nigger helped by the inspiration of rib joints. They
gave him fifty dollars for it.

He looked at her in silence. The spider was sitting on a paper ball that ten times as much value
was. However, someone just for some. Not for the spider. So for him also in the sense and circumstance
of his life from then. He put the sum gently and reverently in his pocket.

The next morning he went to the West, five days stretched country after her, crying the darkness of
the broad window.

He went to his luggage this time, he shaved, talked to the people and read. In the couloir, he
was walking like Unter den Linden or the Zeil. His whole act was breathing secure peace in, but
he felt that he, though clear and decided, in a feverish Tinnitus
was, and that was all around him.

The acquaintances of those days appeared to him interesting than any other (even though he knew
many of the fascinating and famous or important were mainly about how Blumenthal, wrote the verses,
book covers and made a night with a full bar statutes flew over West
Germany).

He felt a first-time participation to the people and fates that whizzed
past him, he jumped in the fingers of to know what they cheerfully,
where they ran, and what color was brightened her.

But he resorted to not. It was not his time. He cut through everything. Got out.

A stake marked the station. A rotten crowd huts (as in the squat consciousness, only to thank
him the existence of) stuck around him. Some Indians sold braided belt filled with shells.

Above
them rose to a huge sky. Against whom he drove off, three days, the buffalo cart.

Toward evening they came to a powerful establishment, and she liked
him, he made a statement as Cow-Boy.

The owner hit him on the shoulder and shook his hand. His wife nodded briefly, too kind. The daughter
did not see him. She walked past him to the door so dense that their sleeves swept the dust
from his shoulder. Raoul thought that this location accordingly it. But after he had smiled inwardly
agree, he clenched his teeth together and saw that she had two heavy braids and her neck with an
elastic Despite was high.

There are three ideals that the Cow-Boy knows: Revolver, Lazo, silk scarf. Moreover appear them
as pigs. From hemp to get to the leather-to Seidenlazo, the Gent career the Cow-Boy. But there
is still something immensely in its sheer inaccessibility more delicious.

This is the Lazo of braided horsehair. The Gaucho is rare in his possession, although He is the
longing of his life because he drinks too much and shoots. For a year or two to renounce the desire
of the day to exchange the fervor of a life for is one thing that is more complicated than
the last science or with size in the death . Go The daughter of the owner but he had, and Helen
was proud of him, and look: wide Silver Rings interrupted its course.

The other cow-boy rode on later pflockten and nodded to him. Some gave him the hand and took off
his hat and said, with barely a buckling of the hips, "Heinz Baron of clades. Get here, however,
rarely addressed with full title. "The other looked stupid because
he is German said.

But Raoul loved him why not, because even though it the Original
liked the situation, told him the humorous to the stylized form of
the external Verkrachtseins not to.

However, he teamed up with Jim, a cool guy. He said that he had arrived at the moment about the
rise to the level that this guy had. Namely force, juiciness and a brightness of the eye, the things
and especially the brilliant sky to force something was always ready and secure.

The next morning the Baron Raoul hated.

Raoul had not bareback habit to ride. As the baron took the ball from a Cartridge, put it into
a soap studs and the horse shot to the abdomen. Like a turned-in Fountain flew the animal into
the air and Raoul was sitting with a hard blow on the earth. Anger rose him in his fists, but he
entkrallte hands again, clasped his face in peace.

He knew in a few days he would ride better than the Baron and also felt this as a desire to
Action, overcoming and enforcement. But since the other had laughed and that was bad, bat He
Baron, a bottle of hand-held horizontally at twenty paces from him. He refused. Jim put on his riding
gloves and held it, and Raoul is bluffing so in all respect and admiration back that he was
out calmly to his neck and into the ground fired. And no one laughed more.

After a half years, he found two miles from the farm a book.

He picked it up. Longfellow: Hiawatha. . . Helen was standing in front of the house and untied
her braids. And he forgot himself and the first time spoke to her, and against his will, he felt
it went without many dead Forms back to him, and he said that he had found the book and that he
knew his early youth, full of noise as it was, and that he would bring her, because he believed
that it could only belong to her and afraid she would have this loss
as a special pain felt.

And here it is now.

Then he discovered in their altered nature or difficult dominated surprise that he had fallen
back into his old body, or rather himself in his new development I skipped. He noted that in
his rage, saw how they looked up. Felt it to rise on his body, cruel and slow as mercury is raised
until the direction of his Eyes met. As she said: "Thank you.

He came to the farm for weeks not out of anger against him. He slept at night, worse than the
other freely in the grass, on rocks, cursed and got drunk now and again.

But she came to him.

It came as a mistress, he was very good. It came easy, and he knew not how he should react
to this. But she took him simply in their way, pulled him Next, he spoke of Europe and Washington,
however, gave it two years in the was interned in a boarding school, and she spoke French and
he responded well, but they never asked him who he was and gave him a light-weight orders, half
needs more with a pronounced accent.

Once he saw the Baron to make deals where. He pointed on him. She raised her little shoulders.
How could they angehn something. And Raoul loved Unrestricted use of this contempt and therefore
I hated it. For she was above him and the Spirit his caste was sitting in it.

In between, he agonized over the uncertainty of the relationship between the gift Confidence he
had gained nothing (and let the devil from above them undeserved
Sentiments gift!), And kicked aside the threat of becoming vibrated
back and forth.

There was a day where they explained the matter by him, with her pride as a whip struck across the
face.

She had discovered in his flock a bright mare very soft and subtle forms and she wished, but was
missing with its cord. Raoul she began with his hemp.

First She was pleased, patted the trembling animal the velvet neck and seemed grateful to be Continue
riding in a crease in her forehead and pierced them with a haughty movement of their Lazo hinüberschnickte
him with sharpened voice said (and distorted lips): "You can have it. There! He is good but no
more. "

Since his boyhood, he could feel again for the first fatal fall red
flashes his face, he did not hand in the line, turned, rode it, without
a word.

Angry. Knew that it One goal is to have it to win it. God, how happy the wound him, which she
torn, as he rejoiced that he was thrown off by her respectful interest where all the action he
was bound. Now everything was on the power of his hands.

During this time, a relative of the owner from England came to the farm. He was in New York Shops
had and wanted to see the West. He intended to stay two or three weeks, was but after a few days
sick. The usual practice failed. Raoul and Jim down a pole from the fence and rode twenty-four
hours long. Then they were back there. On a third horse, they had the doctor on the rod between
the pharmacy. The disease was not bad.

Helen met Raoul in response to their stalls.

Maybe she was waiting for him. She was very white and seemed about to pass him. Then she remained
standing and said with one voice, that was so controlled that the despair of every vowel and every
consonant wept whistle and with a cold that hardly marked the rage that this happened to their
inaccessibility was: the Baron they had attacked the night. . .

She stopped, for she felt that she did not know what they really wanted. And stammered that
her father while whipping the baron would leave. . . but. . . no. . . that. . . she could
not tell him. Raoul realized that it was anger from her to be so small to get to her father
because she held her Pride only by the possibility of such a thing ashamed, but he was not surprised
and did not ask why she could say to him. Only provoked an altercation, accused the Baron of the noose
and dragged him a bit.

He expected everything. On the same evening he heard a shot and the ball. Two days later He rode
on a bush. It was a shot. The bullet penetrated into the saddle. She was from the front come,
and he had brushed his thigh. Despite all the pain, he searched the bushes from, but found nothing.

But he felt that an end was not. The night before moving to the pastures of the Baron rode,
he took lead, and paper and wrote to his uncle that he should not resent him that He now only to get
to write to him, he was reported to be very busy and have the humble
intention of his journey still continue for some time.

It was the way in America, the moment at least, in the event that the prairie temple was defaced.
He considers the current Location irrelevant, too. He could also the wish of his uncle, something
for him to do, so he's whole life was always in excess pressured
not meet, Unfortunately, he was quite without needs.

Perhaps he was taking for his sake but well worth the effort up,
to crawl under the roof if he knew where that was in his house, there
on the third skylight of the great spin network, but without killing
the spider, a paper ball to receive and send its value attached clarified
to his friend Jim.

Jim is namely aufzutun a delightful man, Gourmet, and wish for a hotel in the prairie. Whereupon
the uncle entschlösse perhaps, the area once viewed. Unfortunately, he was expected to (But
who knows for sure!) Is no longer there, find his nephew Raoul.

Then he walked on the morning after the horses.

Again he met Helen. He had for his shot used in the evening the pharmacy.
It is possible that it had struck her.

She was embarrassed decided and had circles in the brown face. "Where. . .? "

Raoul was an indefinable movement. Quite erratic and large and wide.

"Maybe - I wanted to say - you can ride this time for my horse. I can not today ride and it will
not come out of the habit. . . and then (her hand appeared behind
the back). . . then. . .

They also take some of my Lazo -? "

Raoul hesitated.

She: "I - please."

Raoul was riding from the farm. Helens mare was the best horse in the area. How easy was it
Lazo!

The baron was waiting for him restless. Long they circled around each other chasing a large Pferdetroß.
The animals pushed the snorting in thick wedges between them. They could not shoot. The Lazos whipped
the air. Suddenly, the horses tore between an alley. The baron interrupted by. Raoul felt
his blood flowed like needles in the legs under the pressure of terrible
compressive contact with the Lazos, the constricted his chest.

As a package rushed it to the ground. The arms had been strangled, he could move from the elbow
from the first.

It was enough.

Ere the enemy attracted to grind him, he aimed, propped up his knee,
cried something flashed, Heinz Baron clades a bullet right through
his head.

Then he sat down on the grass and threw up his legs. This was because a duel in the sense of
the country. This was clear. He knew what would say that he borrowed horse and Helen Lazo had. He would
again be very rich. Pah! But Helen would wait for him if, after Rode
south.

And she was beautiful, was proud. And this: he believed that he loved her. But it seemed to
him that he had then reached, where he assumed. No sky will all be nocturnal lure arch over him. The
sky would be a wall, built firmly around him. Life would be nothing left to Increase for him. He
understood in a painful second, that he was spoiled for this life and its demands, because it
is used with a full point and started at one end, and that only a stimulus is eternal and valuable
in it: themselves to raise higher and further improve, and he realized that this timer runs only
in these so on a clean slate and continue pushing from below is possible.

A pain stabbed into him into the recording, he also had about Helen
and her has to overcome his love and longing.

   Her hair, neck, and
   the bleach, o especially Despite their shock and the colored. . .

He closed his eyes and held painfully the lids long about it.

Then he got up.

He gave the horse a slap on the rump that she was snorting home alone.

He had a moment the knowledge that he now that this further poignancy about his life hanging out,
the old and heavy-causing'm no longer afraid. But immediately began to doubt whether all this
was so painful to run by time and fate is not yet made up solely of a string of coiled loops that
are flowing into one another repeated in the high-Torn Up in the Will and fatigue. But he shook
her off.

Flared up, began with Helen Lazo a wild horse, tamed it and jumped
on it.

The Lazo was woven of horse hair and white from dark and wide, adorned with silver rings. Raoul
Perten rode to the north.

And rode, and suddenly threw up his arms, that they belong stretched
stood up as he lay hold of to eingliedernd in the swing of a trapezoid
and excessive Lazo made the powerful fully-ending ellipses go to his
hands - -. . . and rode on a piece of heaven, into the drilled like
a blue triangle between two hills and above a horizon, set off enormous,
fully and forever circling in shimmering rotundas pierced like a puzzle
plate.

The leprous forest

Benoit de St. More: Ceste history n'est pas usee

Jehan Bodel, Sire d'Arras was riding through the forest.

He rode a yellow mule, and carried no weapons except the contempt of small damaskenischen Knife
in his belt. His arms hung down to let both sides of the saddle.

After two hours it whistled sharply.

From the bushes whistled a ball of people down the slope in the bright sun. Some clubs of wood
held in his fists. The foremost danced crouched on the same square hochschnellend steadily.
In his left hand turned Erice an instrument of iron; the other, their fingers were crawling
out from the meat and the ankle to a big red scab was, clutching an old rusty sword. All were
of terrible Scraps of dirty cloth umhängt. Tumors and scars were eating through the faces of the
most. Slowly rolled slightly the slope on all fours after them down, picked up with long white
hair, stood reverently hesitantly, his hands in admiration and lifting keys and two red empty
eye sockets stuck in the middle of the piercing light.

Jehan Bodel reached for his knife. It was too small. His eyes turned
around.

Nothing was Area of ​​his hands. He took a step back and spat out in anger.

The men crawled like spiders up to him.

Their leader danced around him silently with greedy jumps.

As Jehan tossed his mule to the ground, three notches cut in the thigh, turned the leg from
the joint and killed a few of the attackers, went back, stroking rapidly the screaming animal
on foot and neck, killing it, and walked casually, haughty free drenched
forest further.

It moved him a feeling: anger, that he had no time to kill the mule,
before he wounded.

He did not think that he had on him to flee. Jehan did not flee.

Coming at noon to Erigny where large market was. Many costs incurred by the square colored colorful,
and a shattering tumult was moving on the roads.

Jehan stood on a platform was right in place, and as a rest and head to head is sown pushed against
him, he promised in disgust, shake everyone who slew a leper in the woods, twenty dinars.

Then
he bought two cloths, silver saddle, a snow-white dog and a chicken Mare whose tail lashed the
ground.

He left everything to bring his hotel, ordered a game and people ate.

When he named his favorite fish apart, lay down a monk pushed through
the door and tried to come to Jehan.

But the Economic spread his arms and hugged him back. Jehan Bodel loved to dine alone. Solo the monk
insisted and swore long and loud at St. Vincent, Jehan attention to him beckoned. Up to two feet,
because he did not want to be bothered by his breath.

The monk struck a deal. Jehan, however, made such a repellent gesture to whine that he began
with an oath for nights at the round drop of blood from St. Morant, Jehan will of remorse his
heart beat.

And as reported by the saturated and satisfied mouth of the opponent the harsh austerity saw fall,
he ran hastily a step forward and whispered something.

Jehan face was barely moving, but the monk covered his visage with a bold confidentiality and
said and swore by the body of the holy Afflise, the product is good.

Jehan laughed incredulously and edelmännisch and followed a little pushed back, but more curious.
They crossed the yard, a pile of straw pushed to the side, went through a barn. . . then tore
the monk on a hidden door.

A stark room opened, and the only one
included angle in the wall rammed bed on which a girl crouched in
a southern attitude of perhaps seventeen, which is now to a noble
and attitude brought shame and unfolded a touching great beauty. The
monk wanted her to pull off the tunic, but Jehan rejected him, bowed
and asked her name.

She said: "Beautrix said in limo and dialect,
whose dark vibration Jehan Charmed ear. She had such a melting white
skin that they impossible from Provence could be. The monk said, "From
Byzantium.

Since they bought Jehan without examination of two thousand
dinars.

He sat on a mule and they rode together from town. Jehan
said nothing to a slave. They rode in silence, they left him a little.
Suddenly they came roaring contrary, sparkling cries injected through
the empty air and light in which previously only the crunch was from
the hoof of the animal-grinding through the sand.

At the crossroads
of a naked procession sped past them, men who carried flags, dirty
dusty, women and children, some with infants in the distended breasts,
old men, the their weary limbs jumped forward, and all the mouth full
howl. Some had an arm wrapped around the women and cramped in her
girls ran with loosened hair and they left the wind behind him rear
up, again in the men dipped their faces. . . and all whizzed by with
singing and screaming stomping jumps.

Beautrix blushed and turned
her head as the train shot past.

As Jehan knew that he had done a
good buy. He unbuckled his trousers and lifted it high over prior
to her knees, her mule chased with laughter, laughed, kissed her and
ran with it through the forest. The dogs chased him.

He did not think
of the lepers. Because he felt the members of Beautrix were hot. Once
more he kissed her. Since it was already dusk. The chicken dog jumped
in front of them out like a white line.

The forest was then behind
them in a dark arch like an eyebrow. Dull rustling like two wings
of a bat, the gates of Arras, in the evening went along behind them.

Jehan
Bodel felt the same way in this and said it so as to Beautrix. For
Jehan Bodel was (not that he committed the wrong small and shabby,
put it in his life and without being aware of his actions only in
a spark lit) the greatest poet of the Picardy.

He alighted at his
house, put her knee on his left arm, and while he Supported by the
other's shoulder, he carried them in a large paneled room in which
an enormous bed was, and told her that this was their property. It made a strange and shifting panorama,
for the rain varied in its density now and again, and as it changed hills which had been quite
blotted out leaped close upon them, like living things, and then sprang back again into the mist.

So heavy was that tropical fall of water that the horses were bothered by the beating of the
big drops, and shook their heads and stamped fretfully under the ceaseless bombardment. Indeed,
when one stretched out his hand the drops stung him as if with lashes of tiny whips. There
was no wind, no thunder, no flash of lightning, only the tremendous downpour which blended
earth and sky in a drab, swift river.

The air was filled with parallel lines, as in some pencil drawings--not like ordinary rain,
but as if the sky had changed into a vast watering-spout and was sending down a continuous
flood from a myriad holes. It was hard to look up through the terrific downpour, for it blinded
one and whipped the face and made one breathless, but now and again a puff of the rare wind
would lift the sodden brim of the sombrero and then one caught a glimpse of the low-hanging
clouds, with the nearest whiffs of black mist dragging across the top of a hill. Without noticeable
currents of wind, that mass of clouds was shifting slowly--with a sort of rolling motion, across
the sky. And the weight of the rain forced the two to bend their heads and stare down to where
the face of the earth was alive with the gliding, brown waters, whose surface was threshed
into a continual foam. To speak to each other through the uproar, they had to cup their hands
about their lips and shout. Then again the rainfall around them fell away to a drizzling mist
and the beating of the downpour sounded far away, and they were surrounded by distant walls
of noise. So they came to the McDuffy place.

It was a helpless ruin, long abandoned. Not an iota of the roof remained. The sheds for the
horses had dropped to the earth; but the walls of the house still remained standing, in part,
with the empty windows looking out with a mocking promise of the shelter which was not within.
Upon this hollow shack the rain beat with redoubled fury, and even before they could make out
the place through the blankets of rain, they heard the hollow drumming. For there were times,
oddly enough, when any sound would carry a great distance through the crashing of the rain.

A wind now sprung up and at once veered the rain from its perpendicular fall. It slashed them
in the face under the drooping brims of their sombreros, so they drew into the shelter of the
highest part of the standing wall. Still some of the rain struck them, but the major part of
it was shunted over their heads. Moreover, the wall acted as a sort of sounding board, catching
up every odd noise from the storm-beaten plain beyond. They could speak to each other now without
effort.

"D'you think," asked Haw-Haw Langley, pressing his reeking horse a little closer to Mac Strann,
"that he'll come out after us in a rain like this?"

But simple-minded Mac Strann lifted his head and peered through the thick curtains of rain.

"D'you think," he parried, "that Jerry could maybe look through all this and see what I'm doin'
to-day?"

It made Haw-Haw Langley grin, but peering more closely and observing that there was no mockery
in the face of the giant, he wiped out his grin with a scrubbing motion of his wet hand and
peered closely into the face of his companion.

"They ain't any doubt of it," he said reassuringly. "He'll know what you do, Mac. What was
it that Pale Annie said to you?"

"Wanted me not to meet Barry. Said that Barry had once cleaned up a gang of six."

"And here we are only two."

"You ain't to fight!" warned Mac Strann sharply. "It'll be man to man, Haw-Haw."

"But he might not notice that," cried Haw-Haw, and he caressed his scrawny neck as though he
already felt fingers closing about his windpipe. "Him bein' used to fight crowds, Mac. Did
you think of that?"

"I never asked you to come," responded Mac Strann.

"Mac," cried Haw-Haw in a sudden alarm, "s'pose you wasn't to win. S'pose you wasn't able to
keep him away from me?"

The numb lips of Mac Strann sprawled in an ugly smile, but he made no other answer.

"You don't think you'll lose," hurried on Haw-Haw, "but neither did them six that Pale Annie
was tellin' about, most like. But they did! They lost; but if you lose what'll happen to me?"

"They ain't no call for you to stay here," said Mac Strann with utter indifference.

Haw-Haw answered quickly: "I wouldn't go--I wouldn't miss it for nothin'. Ain't I come all
this way to see it--I mean to help? Would I fall down on you now, Mac? No, I wouldn't!"

And twisting those bony fingers together he burst once more into that rattling, unhuman laughter
which all the Three B's knew so well and dreaded as the dying dread the sight of the circling
buzzard above.

"Stop laughin'!" cried Mac Strann with sudden anger. "Damn you, stop laughin'!"

The other peered upon Mac Strann with incredulous delight, his broad mouth gaping to that thirsted
grin of enjoyment.

"You ain't gettin' nervous, Mac?" he queried, and thrust his face closer to make sure. "You
ain't bothered, Mac? You ain't doubtin' how this'll turn out?" There was no answer and so he
replied to himself: "I know what done it to you. I seen it myself. It was that yaller light
in his eyes, Mac. My God, it come up there out of nothin' and it wasn't a light that ought
to come in no man's eyes. It was like I'd woke up at night with a cold weight on my chest and
found two snakes' eyes glitterin' close to my face. Makes me shivery, like, jest to think of
it now. D'you notice that, Mac?"

"I'm tired of talkin'," said Mac Strann hoarsely, "damned tired!"

And so saying he swung his great head slowly around and glared at Haw-Haw. The latter shrank
away with an undulatory motion in his saddle. And when the head of Mac Strann turned away again
the broad mouth began gibbering: "It's gettin' him like it done me. He's scared, scared, scared--even
Mac Strann!"

He broke off, for Mac Strann had jerked up his head and said in a strangely muffled voice:
"What was that?"

The bullet head of Haw-Haw Langley leaned to one side, and his glittering eyes rolled up while
he listened.

"Nothin'!" he said, "I don't hear nothin'!"

"Listen again!" cried Mac Strann in that same cautious voice, as of one whispering in the night
in the house of the enemy. "It's like a voice in the wind. It comes down the wind. D'ye hear
now--now--now?"

It was, indeed, the faintest of faint sounds when Haw-Haw caught it. It was, in the roar of
the rain, as indistinct as some distant light on the horizon which may come either from a rising
star or from the window of a house. But it had a peculiar quality of its own, even as the house-light
would be tinged with yellow when the stars are cold and white. A small and distant sound, and
yet it cut through the crashing of the storm more and more clearly; someone rode through the
rain whistling.

"It's him!" gasped Haw-Haw Langley. "My God A'mighty, Mac, he's whistlin'! It ain't possible!"

He reined his horse closer to the wall, listening with mouth agape.

He shrilled suddenly: "What if he should hit us both, seein' us together? They ain't no heart
in a feller that can whistle in a storm like this!"

But Mac Strann had lowered his head, bulldog-like, and now he listened and thrust out his blunt
jaw farther and farther and returned no answer.

"God gimme the grit to stick it out," begged Haw-Haw Langley in an agony of desire. "God lemme
see how it comes out. God lemme watch 'em fight. One of 'em is goin' to die--may be two of
'em--nothin' like it has ever been seen!"

The rain shifted, and the heart of the storm rolled far away. For the moment they could look
far out across the shadow-swept hills, and out of the heart of the desolate landscape the whistling
ran thrilling upon them. It was so loud and close that of one accord the two listeners jerked
their heads about and stared at each other, and then turned their eyes as hastily away, as
though terrified by what they had seen--each in the face of the other. It was no idle tune
which they heard whistled. This was a rising, soaring pean of delight. It rang down upon the
wind--it cut into their faces like the drops of the rain; it branded itself like freezing cold
into their foreheads.

And then, upon the crest of the nearest hill, Haw-Haw Langley saw a dim figure through the
mist, a man on a horse and something else running in front; and they came swiftly.

"It's the wolf that's runnin' us down!" screamed Haw-Haw Langley. "Oh, God A'mighty, even if
we was to want to run, the wolf would come and pull us down. Mac, will you save me? Will you
keep the wolf away?"

He clung to the arm of his companion, but the other brushed him back with a violence which
almost unseated Haw-Haw.

"Keep off'n me," growled Mac Strann, "because when you touch me, it feels like somethin' dead
was next to my skin. Keep off'n me!"

Haw-Haw dragged himself back into the saddle with effort, for it was slippery with rain. His
face convulsed with something black as hate.

"It ain't long you'll do the orderin' and be so free with your hands. He's comin'--soon! Mac,
I'd like to stay--I'd like to see the finish----" he stopped, his buzzard eyes glittering against
the face of the giant.

The rain blotted out the figure of the coming horseman, and at the same instant the whistling
leaped close upon them. It was as if the whistling man had disappeared at the place where the
rain swallowed his form, and had taken body again at their very side. Mac Strann shrank back
against the wall, bracing his shoulders, and gripped the butts of his guns. But Haw-Haw Langley
cast a frightened glance on either side; his head making birdlike, pecking notions, and then
he leaned over the pommel of his saddle with a wail of despair and spurred off into the rain.

CHAPTER XL

THE ARROYO

He disappeared, instantly, in that shivering curtain of greyness. Mac Strann sat by the ruined
house alone.

Now, in a time of danger a child will give courage to the strong man. There is a wonderful
communion between any two in time of crisis; and when Haw-Haw Langley disappeared through the
rain it was to Mac Strann as it was to Patroclus when Apollo struck the base of his neck and
his armour of proof fell from him. Not only was there a singular sense of nakedness, but it
seemed to him also that the roaring of the rain became a hostile voice of threatening at the
same instant.

He had never in his life feared any living thing. But now there was a certain hollowness in
the region of his stomach, and his heart fluttered like a bird in the air, with appalling lightness.
And he wished to be far away.

With a clear heaven above him--ay, that would be different, but God had arranged this day and
had set the earth like a stage in readiness for a death. And that was why the rain lashed the
earth so fiercely. He looked down. After his death the wind would still continue to beat that
muddy water to foam. Ay, in that very place all would be as it was at this moment. He would
be gone, but the sky and the senseless earth would remain unchanged. A sudden yearning seized
him for the cabin among the mountains, with the singing of the coffee pot over the fire--the
good, warm, yellow fire that smoked between the rocks. And the skins he had left leaning against
the walls of the cabin to dry--he remembered them all in one glance of memory.

Why was he here, then, when he should have been so far away, making his roof snug against this
torrent of rain. Now, there would be no rain, surely, in those kindly mountains. Their tall
peaks would shut out the storm clouds. Only this plain, these low hills, were the place of hell!

He swung the head of his horse to one side, drove deep the spurs, and leaning his head to the
volleying of the rain he raced in a direction opposite to that in which Haw-Haw Langley had
disappeared, in a direction that led as straight as the line of a flying bird towards that
cabin in the mountains.

Now and then the forefeet of his great horse smashed into a pool and sent a muddy shower of
rain flying up. It crackled against his slicker; it beat like hands against his face. Everything
was striving--all the elements of wind and rain--to hold him back.

Yet flight brought a blessed sense of relief and of safety. He eased the pace of his horse
to a moderate gallop, and no longer driving blindly through the hills, he made out, by peering
into the blast of rain, some of the pools which lay in his path, and swung aside to avoid them.

The rain lightened again about him; he caught a view of the kindly, sheltering hills on all
sides; but as he urged his horse on towards them a shrill flight of whistling fell upon his
ears from behind. He drew his horse at once to a halt and listened with his heart knocking
at his teeth.

It was impossible, manifestly, that the fellow could have followed his track through the rain.
For that matter, if the wolf-fiend could follow traces over a plain awash with water, why might
they not as well follow the tracks of Haw-Haw Langley? There was no good reason.

The whistling? Well, the whistler was far away in the heart of the storm, and the sound was
merely blown against the wind by a chance echo. Yet he remained holding his rein taut, and
listening with all his might.

It came again, suddenly as before, sharp, and keen as a shaft of light in the blackest heart
of night, and Mac Strann leaned over the pommel of his saddle with a groan, and drove the spurs
home. At the same instant the rain shut in over the hills again; a fresher wind sprang up and
drove the downpour into his face. Also its roar shut out the possibility of any sound reaching
him from behind.

He was the worse for that. As long as the whistling might reach him he could tell how near
the pursuer rode; but in this common roar of the rain the man might be at any distance behind
him--on his very heels, indeed. Ay, Dan Barry might rush upon him from behind. He had seen
that black stallion and he would never forget--those graceful, agile lines, that generous breast,
wide for infinite wind and the great heart. If the stallion were exerted, it could overtake
his own mount as if he were standing still. Not on good footing, perhaps, but in this mucky
ground the weight of his horse was terribly against him. He drove the spurs home again; he
looked back again and again, piercing the driving mist of rain with starting eyes. He was safe
still; the destroyer was not in sight; yet he might be riding close behind that wall of rain.

His horse came to a sudden halt, sliding on all four feet and driving up a rush of dirty water
before him; even then he had stopped barely in time, for his forefeet were buried to the knees
in water. Before Mac Strann lay a wide arroyo. In ordinary weather it was dry as all the desert
around, but now it had cupped the water from miles around and ran bank full, a roaring torrent.
On its surface the rain beat with a continual crashing, like axes falling on brittle glass;
and the downpour was now so fearful that Mac Strann, for all his peering, could not look to
the other side.

He judged the current to see if he might swim his horse across. But even while he stared the
stump of a cottonwood went whirling down the stream, struck a rock, perhaps, on the bottom,
flung its entire bulk out of the water with the impact, and then floundered back into the stream
again and whirled instantly out of sight in the sheeted rain.

No horse in the world could live through such a current. But the arroyo might turn. He swung
his horse and spurred desperately along the bank, keeping his eye upon the bank. No, the stream
cut back in a sharp curve and headed him farther and farther in the direction of the pursuer.
He brought the mighty horse to another sliding halt and swung about in the opposite direction,
for surely there must lie the point of escape. Desperately he rode, for the detour had cost
him priceless time, yet it might be made up. Ay, the stream sloped sharply into the direction
in which he wished to ride. For a distance he could not judge, since seconds were longer than
minutes to Mac Strann now.

And then--the edge of the stream curved back again. He thought it must be a short twist in
the line of the arroyo, but following it a little further he came to realise the truth. The
arroyo described a wide curve, and a sharp one, and to ride down its banks on either side was
merely to throw himself into the arms of Whistling Dan.

Once he struck his fleshy forehead, and then turned with gritting teeth and galloped back for
the point at which he had first arrived. To his maddened brain it occurred that the current
of the arroyo might by this have somewhat abated. He might now make his way across it. So he
halted once more on the bank at the point where the stream doubled back on its course and once
more, in an agony, studied the force of the current. It seemed so placid at the first glance
that he was on the verge of spurring the horse into the wide, brown stream, but even as he
loosened the reins a gap opened in the middle of the water, widened, whirling at the brim,
and drew swiftly into a fierce vortex with a black, deep bottom. Mac Strann tightened his reins
again, and then turned his horse, and waited.

Back the veriest coward against the wall and he becomes formidable, and Mac Strann was one
who had never feared before either man or beast or the powers of the storm. Even now he dreaded
no reality, but there dwelt in his mind the memory of how Dan Barry had glared at him in the
Gilead Saloon, and how a flicker of yellow light had glowed in the man's eyes--a strange and
phosphorescent glimmer that might be seen in the darkness of night. When he turned the head
of his horse away from the arroyo, he waited as one waits for the coming of a ghost. Her father came out. A peculiarly sweet and heady air gushed out. Pelayo
closed again quickly. I felt that my head was dizzy. I staggered a little bit and wanted to ask
Toni Main. But she was so calm in front of me that I had it.

The afternoon hours put a shimmering heat on the landscape. The nerves dissolved and the view became faint.
From my room I had long show and marveled at the strangeness the area, with a wave of green
and excessive fertility or against the house rebounded and got down to Valencia to a desolate
sandy plain, from the, tough and angular, the bottleneck up to the
castle grew from Hospitalitet.

The next day Joaquin Pelayo said goodbye to me. He left us alone with Toni Main two. We taught
us how it went. In the morning we were running two hours south, where the Mail steamer docked,
and asked if something had complied with for me. The process seemed strange and weird to be.
Rodriguez did, as if it were a thing of importance that his Determination to the last train to be
eligible. Gradually he had become so in the Role into lived, that he thought his presence necessary
condition that the sailor, the postal disembarked, I threw the letter across from the barge and
ape-like contortions a copper coin for it began. Sometimes he called me with a little gesture
of impatience to come along. When I once had to go alone, he gave me hand in silence, I would
have entrusted him with the most valuable. Main Toni had a silent astonishment for it. She passed
out with her very light hand over the letter, gazed at him from all
sides and stuck with a fabulous expression of the desire of the many
colorful stamps.

"Would they be happy?" I asked, smiling. I solved it and handed it to her. Then went a nameless
wonder in their eyes. She half opened her mouth. Between the gentle Bow of her lips were teeth
that were set white and very beautiful.

Then they quickly lowered his eyes, moved his arm a few times as stroking turned over his belt,
slowly around and ran away very quickly. I looked over at Rodriguez. He hugged me:

"Hombre, si: Senor" you are "a good man, he cried enthusiastically. In the evening we went out
to sea. The light breeze broke the stillness of the hot day at a moving coolness to a shower
of peace and happiness dawning ignited.

I leaned back in the boat, whose curved sides rising to a peak that was above my head. Main Toni's
view was like a silent sun on Rodriguez, whose brown back muscles to the beat of rowing together
jumped fan way back and ran under the skin.

When the sun had disappeared and the mountains to the Castel de Balaguer as with purple ink painted
on the silvery sky, seemed to Main Toni sang a romance, the rhythm
always steep up and went down deep.

Rodriguez once told by his father, who was five Years in Asturias
was an accident on a bear hunt.

The animal had torn off his head. The knife of a friend already in the heart, it had him with
one of the last convulsions in a Canyon thrown.

You had to bury the body without a head. Rodriguez appeared to bang:

"Do you think, Senor, that my father anyway. . . "

I nodded affirmatively. It was touching.

He had pressed her hand firmly against his knee and looked straight
ahead.

Then he said carefully:

"Nevertheless, the amulet remained on his neck and disappeared with his head. . .? "

I told him that it was sufficient if the cross had touched her breast.
. .

Often the wind carried the scent over the trees and spread it thin
and tender on the Water.

A few hundred meters from the beach was a wide cliff. There was, if not the tide went to the
coolest place in the whole area.

At night the sea beat against the beach.
Joaquin Pelayo was even prouder than before. It was the hottest afternoon.
Main Toni brought iced Pomeranzenwasser with carrot and later chocolate.
My luggage was fulfilled, and I showed him a few shots from Antoine
recent months. I also told him of the Impression of the note to the
owner of the Venta, where I had spent the night in search after him.
He smiled slightly:

"Let but no coins are with me!"

I laughed, "There
would have to the diamond on your finger between brothers twenty thousand
francs be worth. . . "

It was as if I had cut his hand on the table.
All were silent. Rodriguez emphasized in his hair, and looked shyly
at Main Toni her father.

I said no more. The mood of this paralysis
was to us, we smoked, and when It was cool coming up, we saw a woman
of Balaguer. Before the two milestones they knelt down. We sat in
the gallery of the first floor. "If you drop
me, you can send your next shot into Bart. If I drop you, the teeth of Bart will be in your
throat. Make your own terms; fight in the way you want; knives, if you like 'em better than
guns, or----" and here the yellow flamed terribly in Barry's eyes--"bare hand to hand!"

The grim truth sank slowly home in the dull mind of Mac Strann. The man had saved him from
the water to kill him on dry land.

"Barry," he said slowly, "it was your bullet that brung down Jerry; but you've paid me back
here. They's nothin' left on earth worth fightin' for. There's your gun."

And he threw the revolver into the mud at Barry's feet, turned on his heel, and lumbered off
into the rain. There was no voice of answer behind him, except a shrill whine of rage from
Black Bart and then a sharp command: "Down!" from the master. As the blanket of rain shut over
him, Mac Strann looked back. There stood the strange man with the wolf crouched at his feet,
and the teeth of Bart were bared, and the hum of his horrible snarling carried to Strann through
the beat of the rain. Mac Strann turned again, and plodded slowly through the storm.

And Dan Barry? Twice men had stood before him, armed, and twice he had failed to kill. Wonder
rose in him; wonder and a great fear. Was he losing the desert, and was the desert losing him?
Were the chains of humanity falling about him to drag him down to a tamed and sordid life?
A sudden hatred for all men, Mac Strann, Daniels, Kate, and even poor Joe Cumberland, welled
hot in the breast of Whistling Dan. The strength of men could not conquer him; but how could
their very weakness disarm him? He leaped again on the back of Satan, and rode furiously back
into the storm.

CHAPTER XLI

THE FALLING OF NIGHT

It had been hard to gauge the falling of night on this day, and even the careful eyes of the
watchers on the Cumberland Ranch could not tell when the greyness of the sky was being darkened
by the coming of the evening. All day there had been swift alterations of light and shadow,
comparatively speaking, as the clouds grew thin or thick before the wind. But at length, indubitably,
the night was there. Little by little the sky was overcast, and even the lines of the falling
rain were no longer visible. Before the gloom of the darkness had fully settled over the earth,
moreover, there came a change in the wind, and the watchers at the rain-beaten windows of the
ranch-house saw the clouds roll apart and split into fragments that were driven from the face
of the sky; and from the clean washed face of heaven the stars shone down bright and serene.
And still Dan Barry had not come.

After the tumult of that long day the sudden silence of that windless night had more ill omen
in it than thunder and lightning. For there is something watching and waiting in silence. In
the living room the three did not speak.

Now that the storm was gone they had allowed the fire to fall away until the hearth showed
merely fragmentary dances of flame and a wide bed of dull red coals growing dimmer from moment
to moment. Wung Lu had brought in a lamp--a large lamp with a circular wick that cast a bright,
white light--but Kate had turned down the wick, and now it made only a brief circle of yellow
in one corner of the room. The main illumination came from the fireplace and struck on the
faces of Kate and Buck Daniels, while Joe Cumberland, on the couch at the end of the room,
was only plainly visible when there was an extraordinarily high leap of the dying flames; but
usually his face was merely a glimmering hint in the darkness--his face and the long hands
which were folded upon his breast. Often when the flames leapt there was a crackling of the
embers and the last of the log, and then the two nearer the fire would start and flash a glance,
of one accord, towards the prostrate figure on the couch. Clubs with robes and a priest in rotbekleideten
hands holding a flag. Some parts were singing. A crowd of girls sang Summer songs, and the
rhythm of coming hooked into it as the demolished quarreling of parrots.

Jehan went to the scaffold. Behind him stood the full figure, schlündige entrance of the cathedral,
Candles flickered from the weak. Jehan greeted the people laughing. A silky blue sky hung over
the place. Laughing, she gave him back the greeting. Then his face changed in an opaque severity,
and he Congie las de Jehan Bodel d'Arras Li, that is, he said the people farewell. He read
on. The faces below him taut. They stressed themselves into a breathless excitement. One raised
his hand. All raised their hands. A storm of hands lifted and threw his will against the railing
that he will stay. And the faces entstarrten and flared up and she screamed in ecstasy. She raged
and stormed in front.

As Jehan raised both hands to his neck, hooked and pulled them apart after the two sides dress
and pushed their cries against his bare chest. He spread out his
arms.

At its Skin bruises were dancing, and a red tumor broke through the
breast.

A tremor long stood against the roar of the monster.

The arms fell back, the screaming became howls. Wives of the men pulled back leprosy. They departed.
As mentioned lashes verknirschte the turmoil and ducked. One, there was only: Escape! --.

One even ventured, pushing his fist in the air and shouted "Pilori."

But he was left alone.

As if from a circle of Jehan, who will continue as in the water, something came forth from him and
pressed the amount of space and threw them into the houses and streets. Two Beautrix wore
powerless.

Then it was silent.

No sound. -

Jehan smiled: How in the bin.

The market had two exits. Jehan step one. It was a goal in a tower, is divided up in two handles,
between which hangs a large bell. In his Center oozed out an outgrowth,
arched shapeless, like a navel.

That was the sundial.

Jehan looked down the street. He saw no one. Then he walked back across the square after another
Page.

No eye was on the windows, the anklafften him. He wore a leper on his Just like a chest plate.
- This was a dark passage through small desert streets.

Jehan was wearing a turban made of fur.

His sleeves were tight and wore collars at the joints of fur. Closely clung, leaving open
only the front chest, a dark red suit to his Upper body and then ran under my belt (made of
crocodile skin) apart in a large bell to the feet, where it stayed a wide Pelzsäumung and a
strip of gold. Were green his shoes.

He walked into the dull streets and sloping hoped that a slew him.

However, he killed no one.

His house had a wide front. In the upper
portions were large windows with columns. Below the middle was a large
door. She stood on the day and night. No one came. Jehan waited.

No
one came.

Towards morning went on many doors, and rows of people
marched with candles through the city and the Church.

All day Jehan
was back on his ottoman. The room was locked. Beautrix knocked the
morning after each stroke. She called crying Jehan name. She threw
her Body against the door. She swore on the Provencals, who had thrown
the plague on him. He did not hear. The door creaked little.

The
day and the following night was the door open to Jehan Bodel house.
No one came. Hardly anyone went past. Towards evening Jehan looked
through the bars. Beautrix was before stretched out the door like
a fine bright animal. Later took a train foreign Breton singer through
the city. Your Red and violas sounded down. 

After midnight, a baritone
voice said, sounding out of the darkness at room Jehan the story of
Amis and Amile:

They were blood brothers, nice, very similar and
made love.
It seemed to Buck Daniels that he would give ten years from the best of his life to see her
smile as he had once seen her in those old, bright days. He went on with his tale.

"You would have busted laughin' if you'd seen him at the Circle Y Bar roundup the way I seen
him. Shorty ain't so bad with a rope. He's always talkin' about what he can do and how he can
daub a rope on anything that's got horns. He ain't so bad, but then he ain't so good, either.
Specially, he ain't so good at ridin'--you know what bowed legs he's got, Kate?"

"I remember, Buck."

She was looking at him, at last, and he talked eagerly to turn that look into a smile.

"Well, they was the three of us got after one two year old--a bull and a bad 'un. Shorty was
on one side and me and Cuttle was on the other side. Shorty daubed his rope and made a fair
catch, but when his hoss set back the rope busted plumb in two. Now, Shorty, he had an idea
that he could ease the work of his hoss a whole pile if he laid holts on the rope whenever
his hoss set down to flop a cow. So Shorty, he had holt on this rope and was pulling back hard
when the rope busted, and Shorty, he spilled backwards out'n that saddle like he'd been kicked out.

"Whilst he was lyin' there, the bull, that had took a header when the rope busted, come up
on his feet agin, and I'll tell a man he was rarin' mad! He seen Shorty lyin' on the ground,
and he took a run for Shorty. Me and Cuttle was laughin' so hard we couldn't barely swing our
ropes, but I made a throw and managed to get that bull around both horns. So my Betty sits
down and braces herself for the tug.

"In the meantime little Shorty, he sits up and lays a hand to his head, and same time he sees
that bull come tarin' for him. Up he jumps. And jest then the bull come to the end of the line
and wonk!--down he goes, head over heels, and hits the sand with a bang that must of jostled
his liver some, I'll be sayin'!

"Well, Shorty, he seen that bull fly up into the air and he lets out a yell like the world
was comin' to an end, and starts runnin'. If he'd run straight back the other way the bull
couldn't of run a step, because I had him fast with my rope, but Shorty seen me, and he come
tarin' for my hoss to get behind him.

"That bull was like a cat gettin' to his feet, and he sights Shorty tarin' and lights out after
him. There they went lickety-split. That bull was puffin' on the seat of Shorty's trowsers
and tossin' his horns and jest missin' Shorty by inches; and Shorty had his mouth so wide open
hollerin' that you could have throwed a side of beef down his throat; and his eyes was buggin'
out. Them bow-legs of his was stretchin' ten yards at a clip, most like, and the boys says
they could hear him hollerin' a mile away. But that bull, stretch himself all he could, couldn't
gain an inch on Shorty, and Shorty couldn't gain an inch on the bull, till the bull come to
the other end of the forty-foot rope, and then, whang! up goes the heels of the bull and down
goes his head, and his heels comes over--wonk! and hits Shorty right square on the head.

"Been an ordinary feller, and he wouldn't of lived to talk about it afterwards, but seein'
it was Shorty, he jest goes up in the air and lands about ten yards away, and rolls over and
hits his feet without once gettin' off his stride--and then he did start runnin', and he didn't
stop runnin' nor hollerin' till he got plumb back to the house!"

Buck Daniels sat back in his chair and guffawed at the memory. In the excitement of the tale
he had quite forgotten Kate, but when he remembered her, she sat with her head craned a little
to one side, her hand raised for silence, and a smile, indeed, upon her lips, but never a glance
for Buck Daniels. He knew at once.

"Is it him?" he whispered. "D'you hear him?"

"Hush!" commanded two voices, and then he saw that old Joe Cumberland also was listening.

"No," said the girl suddenly, "it was only the wind."

As if in answer, a far, faint whistling broke upon them. She drew her hands slowly towards
her breast, as if, indeed, she drew the sound in with them.

"He's coming!" she cried. "Oh, Dad, listen! Don't you hear?"

"I do," answered the rancher, "but what I'm hearin' don't warm my blood none. Kate, if you're
wise you'll get up and go to your room and don't pay no heed to anything you might be hearin'
to-night."

CHAPTER XLII

THE JOURNEY INTO NIGHT

There was no doubting the meaning of Joe Cumberland. It grew upon them with amazing swiftness,
as if the black stallion were racing upon the house at a swift gallop, and the whistling rose
and rang and soared in a wild outburst. Give the eagle the throat of the lark, and after he
has struck down his prey in the centre of the sky and sent the ragged feathers and the slain
body falling down to earth, what would be the song of the eagle rising again and dwindling
out of sight in the heart of the sky? What terrible pean would he send whistling down to the
dull earth far below? And such was the music that came before the coming of Dan Barry. Yes but this rate had since time immemorial and the Chinese be known, as we
it in with them so famous writing Chiu-pi find that several G. centuries BC were on the Kaiser
Chiu-kung * * So in the year 1100 BC G. is about returned. (40) others were able to direct measurement
tests on diagonal lines in the proportional Maas rods to both the above and still other rectangular
Three corners have led to rational side lengths, and seems to us the possibility ruled that the
famous and infamous sentence of Pythagoras * * over the squares of the Hypotenuse and the
hypotenuse of a thorough investigation of such proportional Maas bars is sprung.

When we say on the one hand, that the ancient Egyptians, not only
the area of ​​the circle, of the square, the rectangle, the rectangular
and the oblique triangle, and using decompositions of the surfaces
of arbitrary polygons to accurately determine theoretically able were,
except for us, such a forming circle, so must the other, but be admitted
that it was content with practical applications to approximations,
which during the times so degenerated, that the use was wrong, a general
rules.

On the left bank of the Nile in the middle between * * Thebes and Aswan * * * Edfu is * that *
old Appollinopolis Magna * with a stately temple from the times of the Ptolemies.
 He seemed to bring with him the keen,
fresh air of the light, and at the opening of the door the flame in the lamp jumped in its
chimney, shook, and fell slowly back to its original dimness; but by that glow of light they
saw that the sombrero upon Dan Barry's head was a shapeless mass--his bandana had been torn
away, leaving his throat bare--his slicker was a mass of rents and at the neck had been crumpled
and torn in a thousand places as though strong teeth had worried it to a rag. Spots of mud
were everywhere on his boots, even on his sombrero with its sagging brim, and on one side of
his face there was a darker stain. He had ceased his whistling, indeed, but now he stood at
the door and hummed as he gazed about the room. Straight to Kate Cumberland he walked, took
her hands, and raised her from the chair.

He said, and there was a fibre and ring in his voice that made them catch their breaths: "There's
something outside that I'm following to-night. I don't know what it is. It is the taste of
the wind and the feel of the air and the smell of the ground. And I've got to be ridin'. I'm
saying good-bye for a bit, Kate."

"Dan," she cried, "what's happened? What's on your face?"

"The mark of the night," he answered. "I don't know what else. Will you come with me, Kate?"

"For how long? Where are you going, Dan!"

"I don't know where or how long. All I know is I've got to be going. Come to the window. Take
the air on your face. You'll understand!"

He drew her after him and cast up the window.

"Do you feel it in the wind" he called to her, turning with a transfigured face. "Do you hear it?"

She could not speak but stood with her face lifted, trembling.

"Look at me!" he commanded, and turned her roughly towards him. There he stood leaning close
to her, and the yellow light flickered and waned and burned again in his eyes.

He had held her hands while he stared. Now he dropped them with an exclamation.

"You're blank," he said angrily. "You've seen nothing and heard nothing."

He turned on his heel.

"Bart!" he called, and walked from the room, and they heard the padding of his soft step down
the hall and on the porch and then--silence. Then an angry exclamation - - a car that attracted - - yet a few votes.
I ran to the gallery. I turned me well over the wooden bars. . . . . .

I stumbled, I tore myself up. The wood creaked. I felt my breath whistled. I saw it. . . it was the
same face, the smile Perdicans change into his pocket . . . they were the same traits, it
was the same one I two days before the death of the woman Montbellaire with disfigured face,
undermine the eyes green, with slack lines want to hear to fall off,
fall out of her box saw.

In the car were still women, some men.

Without feeling I did when I looked up in me: the flag no longer flew.

I went to Joaquin Pelayo.

I found him not.

As I urged in the room on the ground floor.

I had not knocked. I pushed open the door. Far. But the smell hit me in the sweet Face and
took my breath away. I saw her just a flash of the table. Pelayo had me pulled out. He was polite,
but seemed to hurt. He did not understand my excitement. - - What they had wanted to?

The house rent or something. . .

He seemed not to care.

At that moment, called out one of the servants.

Pelayo also jumped.

I followed.

The Knecht pointed excitedly to the sea. On the stairs, sped down
a bit. . . past us. We rushed to. Main Tonis empty boat was rocking
out. The flood came to the cliff flooded. Waves with a broad dark
rolled back like animals to them. Then it rattled and white Foam strips
covered them almost completely. On a projection to Main Toni was crossed
with Poor.

Rodriguez stopped in front of the boats. His chest pushed
out. He turned his hands to his lips. The cheeks were stretched to
the inside, and flew from the painful gaping circle of the mouth his
voice was like a shot:

"Ay," he said.

"Ay! Main Toni - - "

Rodriguez
rowed. Mad rowed Rodriguez.

"He's carryin' her off on Satan!" groaned Joe Cumberland, staggering as he tried to step forward.
"Buck, call out the boys. Even Satan can't beat my hosses when he's carryin' double--call'em
out--if you bring her back----"

His voice choked and he stumbled and would have fallen to his knees had not Buck Daniels sprang
forward and caught him and carried him back to the couch.

"What's happened there ain't no man can stop," said Buck hoarsely. "God's work or devil's work--I
dunno--but I know there ain't no place for a man between Dan and Kate."

"Turn up the lights," commanded Joe Cumberland sharply. "Got to see; I got to think. D'you hear?"

Buck Daniels ran to the big lamp and turned up the wick. At once a clear light flooded every
nook of the big room and showed all its emptiness.

"Can't you make the lamp work?" asked the old ranchman angrily. "Ain't they any oil in it?
Why, Buck, they ain't enough light for me to see your face, hardly. But I'll do without the
light. Buck, how far will they go? Kate's a good girl! She won't leave me, lad!"

"She won't," agreed Buck Daniels. "Jest gone with Dan for a bit of a canter."

"The devil was come back in his eyes," muttered the old man. "God knows where he's headin'
for! Buck, I brought him in off'n the range and made him a part of my house. I took him into
my heart; and now he's gone out again and taken everything that I love along with him. Buck,
why did he go?"

"He'll come back," said the big cowpuncher softly.

"It's gettin' darker and darker," said Joe Cumberland, "and they's a kind of ringing in my
ears. Talk louder. I don't hear you none too well."

"I said they was comin' back," said Buck Daniels.

Something like a light showed on the face of Joe Cumberland.

"Ay, lad," he said eagerly, "I can hear Dan's whistlin' comin' back--nearer and nearer. Most
like he was jest playin' a joke on me, eh, Buck?"

"Most like," said Buck, brokenly.

"Ay, there it's ringin' at the door of the house! Was that a footstep on the hall?"

"It was," said Buck. "They's comin' down the hall!"

But far, far away he heard the whistling of Dan Barry dying among the hills.

"You let the lamp go out," said Joe Cumberland, "and now I can't see nothing. Are they in the
room?"

"They're here," said Buck Daniels, "comin' towards you now."

"Dan!" cried the old man, shading his eyes and peering anxiously--"no, I can't see a thing.
Can you find me, lad?"

And Buck Daniels, softening his voice as much as he could, answered. "I can find you."

"Then gimme your hand."

Buck Daniels slipped his own large hand into the cold fingers of the dying cattleman. An expression
of surpassing joy lay on the face of Joe Cumberland.

"Whistlin' Dan, my Dan," he murmured faintly, "I'm kind of sleepy, but before I go to sleep,
to-night, I got to tell you that I forgive you for your joke--pretendin' to take Kate away." Lisei
who had gone out of my arms, had just taken my hand convulsively, as now the old clergyman
to the custom according to the provided spade and took the first earth on the coffin threw down.
It sounded dull back from the tomb. It was a sweet, faint music, and being so light it seemed
like a chorus of singing voices among the mountains, for it was as pure and as sharp as the
starlight.

Buck Daniels lifted his head to listen, but the sound faded, and the murmur of the night-wind
came between.

THE END

