"We found an undersized, insignificant-looking chap toddling aimlessly along the street a few
blocks away from the station. We grappled with him and hustled him back to the crowd. He slept
with us on the floor, and no one paid any further attention to him, except to remark that he
talked to himself a good bit. He and I awoke earliest next morning. I asked him if he was hungry
and he said he was. So I bought two fair breakfasts with the money I'd saved for one good one,
and we started out of town. This chap said he was going that way, and I had made up my mind
to find a certain friend of mine--a chap named Hoover. The second day out I discovered that
this queer man was the one who'd been turning Denver upside down for ten days, healing the
halt and the blind. He was running away because he liked a quieter life."

He stopped, laughing softly, as if in remembrance--until she prompted him.

"Yes, he said, 'Father' had commanded him to go into the wilderness to fast. He was always
talking familiarly with 'Father,' as we walked. So I stayed by him longer than I meant to--he
seemed so helpless--and I happened at that time to be looking for the true God."

"Did you find him, Bernal?"

"Oh, yes!"

"In this strange man?"

"In myself. It's the same old secret, Nance, that people have been discovering for ages--but
it is a secret only until after you learn it for yourself. The only true revelation from God
is here in man--in the human heart. I had to be years alone to find it out, Nance--I'd had
so much of that Bible mythology stuffed into me--but I mustn't bore you with it."

"Oh, but I must know, Bernal--you don't dream how greatly I need at this moment to believe
something--more than you ever did!"

"It's simple, Nance. It's the only revelation in which the God of yesterday gives willing place
to the better God of to-day--only here does the God of to-day say, 'Thou shalt have no other
God before me but the God of to-morrow who will be more Godlike than I. Only in this way can
we keep our God growing always a little beyond us--so that to-morrow we shall not find ourselves
surpassing him as the first man you would meet out there on the street surpasses the Christian
God even in the common virtues. That was the fourth dimension of religion that I wanted, Nance--faith
in a God that a fearless man could worship."

He lighted his pipe again, and as the match blazed up she saw the absent look still in his
eyes. By it she realised how far away from her he was--realised it with a little sharp sense
of desolation. He smoked a while before speaking.

"Out there in the mountains, Nance, I thought about these things a long time--the years went
before I knew it. At first I stayed with this healing chap, only after a while he started back
to teach again and they found him dead. He believed he had a mission to save the world, and
that he would live until he accomplished it. But there he was, dead for want of a little food.
Then I stayed a long time alone--until I began to feel that I, too, had something for the world.
It began to burn in my bones. I thought of him, dead and the world not caring that he hadn't
saved it--not even knowing it was lost. But I kept thinking--a man can be so much more than
himself when he is alone--and it seemed to me that I saw at least two things the world needed
to know--two things that would teach men to stop being cowards and leaners."

Her sympathy was quick and ardent.

"Oh, Bernal," she said warmly, "you made me believe when you believed nothing--and now, when
I need it above all other times, you make me believe again! And you've come back with a message!
How glorious!"

He smiled musingly.

"I started with one, Nance--one that had grown in me all those years till it filled my life
and made me put away everything. I didn't accept it at first. It found me rebellious--wanting
to live on the earth. Then there came a need to justify myself--to show that I was not the
mere vicious unbeliever poor grandad thought me. And so I fought to give myself up--and I won.
I found the peace of the lone places."

His voice grew dreamy--ceased, as if that peace were indeed too utter for words. Then with
an effort he resumed:

"But after a while the world began to rumble in my ears. A man can't cut himself off from it
forever. God has well seen to that! As the message cleared in my mind, there grew a need to
give it out. This seemed easy off there. The little puzzles that the world makes so much of
solved themselves for me. I saw them to be puzzles of the world's own creating--all artificial--all
built up--fashioned clumsily enough from man's brute fear of the half-God, half-devil he has
always made in his own image.

"But now that I'm here, Nance, I find myself already a little bewildered. The solution of the
puzzles is as simple as ever, but the puzzles themselves are more complex as I come closer
to them--so complex that my simple answer will seem only a vague absurdity."

He paused and she felt his eyes upon her--felt that he had turned from his abstractions to
look at her more personally.

"Even since meeting you, Nance," he went on with an odd, inward note in his voice, "I've been
wondering if Hoover could by some chance have been right. When I left, Hoover said I was a
fool--a certain common variety of fool."

"Oh, I'm sure you're not--at least, not the common kind. I dare say that a man must be a certain
kind of fool to think he can put the world forward by leaps and bounds. I think he must be
a fool to assume that the world wants truth when it wants only to be assured that it has already
found the truth for itself. The man who tells it what it already believes is never called a
fool--and perhaps he isn't. Indeed, I've come to think he is less than a fool--that he's a
mere polite echo. But oh, Bernal, hold to your truth! Be the simple fool and worry the wise
in the cages they have built around themselves."

She was leaning eagerly forward, forgetful of all save that her starved need was feasting royally.

"Don't give up; don't parrot the commoner fool's conceits back to him for the sake of his solemn
approval. Let those of his kind give him what he wants, while you meet those who must have
more. I'm one of them, Bernal. At this moment I honestly don't know whether I'm a bad woman
or a good one. And I'm frightened--I'm so defenseless! Some little soulless circumstance may
make me decisively good or bad--and I don't want to be bad! But give me what I want--I must
have that, regardless of what it makes me."

He was silent for a time, then at last spoke:

"I used to think you were a rebel, Nance. Your eyes betrayed it, and the corners of your mouth
went up the least little bit, as if they'd go further up before they went down--as if you'd
laugh away many solemn respectabilities. But that's not bad. There are more things to laugh
at than are dreamed of. That's Hoover's entire creed, by the way."

She remembered the name from that old tale of Caleb Webster's.

"Is--is this friend of yours--Mr. Hoover--in good health?"

"Fine--weighs a hundred and eighty. He and I have a ranch on the Wimmenuche--only Hoover's
been doing most of the work while I thought about things. I see that. Hoover says one can't
do much for the world but laugh at it. He has a theory of his own. He maintains that God set
this planet whirling, then turned away for a moment to start another universe or something.
He says that when the Creator glances back at us again, to find this poor, scrubby little earth-family
divided over its clod, the strong robbing the weak in the midst of plenty for all--enslaving
them to starve and toil and fight, spending more for war than would keep the entire family
in luxury; that when God looks closer, in his amazement, and finds that, next to greed, the
matter of worshipping Him has made most of the war and other deviltry--the hatred and persecution
and killing among all the little brothers--he will laugh aloud before he reflects, and this
little ballful of funny, passionate insects will be blown to bits. He says if the world comes
to an end in his lifetime, he will know God has happened to look this way, and perhaps overheard
a bishop say something vastly important about Apostolic succession or the validity of the Anglican
Orders or Transubstantiation or 'communion in two kinds' or something. He insists that a sense
of humour is our only salvation--that only those will be saved who happen to be laughing for
the same reason that God laughs when He looks at us--that the little Mohammedans and Christians
and things will be burned for their blasphemy of believing God not wise and good enough to
save them all, Mohammedan and Christian alike, though not thinking excessively well of either;
that only those laughing at the whole gory nonsense will go into everlasting life by reason
of their superior faith in God."

"Of course that's plausible, and yet it's radical. Hoover's father was a bishop, and I think
Hoover is just a bit narrow from early training. He can't see that lots of people who haven't
a vestige of humour are nevertheless worth saving. I admit that saving them will be a thankless
task. God won't be able to take very much pleasure in it, but in strict justice he will do
it--even if Hoover does regard it as a piece of extravagant sentimentality."

A little later she went in. She left him gazing far off into the night, filled with his message,
dull to memory on the very scene that evoked in her own heart so much from the old days. And
as she went she laughed inwardly at a certain consternation the woman of her could not wholly
put down; for she had blindly hurled herself against a wall--the wall of his message. But it
was funny, and the message chained her interest. She could, she thought, strengthen his resolution
to give it out--help him in a thousand ways.

As she fell asleep the thought of him hovered and drifted on her heart softly, as darkness
rests on tired eyes.

CHAPTER XI

THE REMORSE OF WONDERING NANCY

She awoke to the sun, glad-hearted and made newly buoyant by one of those soundless black sleeping-nights
that come only to the town-tired when they have first fled. She ran to the glass to know if
the restoration she felt might also be seen. With unbiassed calculation the black-fringed lids
drew apart and one hand pushed back of the temple, and held there, a tangled skein of hair
that had thrown the dusk of a deep wood about her eyes. Then, as she looked, came the little
dreaming smile that unfitted critic eyes for their office; a smile that wakened to a laugh
as she looked--a little womanish chuckle of confident joy, as one alone speaking aloud in an
overflowing moment.

An hour later she was greeting Bernal where the sun washed through the big room.

"Young life sings in me!" she said, and felt his lightening eyes upon her lips as she smiled.

There were three days of it--days in which, however, she grew to fear those eyes, lest they
fall upon her in judgment. She now saw that his eyes had changed most. They gave the face its
look of absence, of dreaming awkwardness. They had the depth of a hazy sky at times, then cleared
to a coldly lucid glance that would see nothing ever to fear, within or without; that would
hide no falseness nor yet be deceived by any--a deadly half-shut, appraising coolness that
would know false from true, even though they mated amicably and distractingly in one mind.

The effect of this glance which she found upon herself from time to time was to make Nancy
suspect herself--to question her motives and try her defenses. To her amazement she found these
latter weak under Bernal's gaze, and there grew in her a tender remorse for the injustice she
had done her husband. From little pricking suspicions on the first day she came on the last
to conviction. It seemed that being with Bernal had opened her eyes to Allan's worth. She had
narrowly, flippantly misjudged a good man--good in all essentials. She was contrite for her
unwifely lack of abnegation. She began to see herself and Allan with Bernal's eyes: she was
less than she had thought--he was more. Bernal had proved these things to her all unconsciously.
Now her heart was flooded with gratitude for his simple, ready, heartfelt praise of his brother--of
his unfailing good-temper, his loyalty, his gifts, his modesty so often distressed by outspoken
admiration of his personal graces. She listened and applauded with a heart that renewed itself
in all good resolves of devotion. Even when Bernal talked of himself, he made her feel that
she had been unjust to Allan.

Little by little she drew many things from him--the story of his journeyings and of his still
more intricate mental wanderings. And it thrilled her to think he had come back with a message--even
though he already doubted himself. Sometimes he would be jocular about it and again hot with
a passion to express himself.

"Nance," he said on another night, "when you have a real faith in God a dead man is a miracle
not less than a living--and a live man dying is quite as wondrous as a dead man living. Do
you know, I was staggered one day by discovering that the earth didn't give way when I stepped
on it? The primitive man knowing little of physics doesn't know that a child's hand could move
the earth through space--but for a certain mysterious resistance. That's God. I felt him all
that day, at every step, pushing the little globe back under me--counteracting me--resisting
me--ever so gently. Those are times when you feel you must tell it, Nance--when the God-consciousness
comes."

"Oh, Bernal, if you could--if you could come back to do what your grandfather really wanted
you to do--to preach something worth while!"

"I doubt the need for my message, Nance. I need for myself a God that could no more spare a
Hottentot than a Pope--but I doubt if the world does. No one would listen to me--I'm only a
dreamer. Once, when I was small they gave me a candy cane for Christmas. It was a thing I had
long worshipped in shop-windows--actually worshipped as the primitive man worshipped his idol.
I can remember how sad I was when no one else worshipped with me, or paid the least attention
to my treasure. I suspect I shall meet the same indifference now. And I hope I'll have the
same philosophy. I remember I brought myself to eat the cane, which I suppose is the primary
intention regarding them--and perhaps the fruits of one's faith should be eaten quite as practically."

They had sent no word to Allan, agreeing it were better fun to surprise him. When they took
the train together on the third day, the wife not less than the brother looked forward to a
joyous reunion with him. And now that Nancy had proved in her heart the perverse unwifeliness
of her old attitude and was eager to begin the symbolic rites of her atonement, it came to
her to wonder how Bernal would have judged her had she persisted in that first wild impulse
of rebellion. She wanted to see from what degree of his reprobation she had saved herself.
She would be circuitous in her approach.

"You remember, Bernal, that night you went away--how you said there was no moral law under
the sky for you but your own?"

He smiled, and above the noise of the train his voice came to her as his voice of old came
above the noise of the years.

"Yes--Nance--that was right. No moral law but mine. I carried out my threat to make them all
find their authority in me."

"Then you still believe yours is the only authority?"

"Yes; it sounds licentious and horrible, doesn't it; but there are two queer things about it--the
first is that man quite naturally wishes to be decent, and the second is that, when he does
come to rely wholly upon the authority within himself, he finds it a stricter disciplinarian
than ever the decalogue was. One needs only ordinary good taste to keep the ten commandments--the
moral ones. A man may observe them all and still be morally rotten! But it's no joke to live
by one's own law, and yet that's all anybody has to keep him right, if we only knew it, Nance--barring
a few human statutes against things like murder and keeping one's barber-shop open on the Sabbath--the
ruder offenses which no gentleman ever wishes to commit.

"And must poor woman be ruled by her own God, too?"

"Why not?"

"Well, it's not so long ago that the fathers of the Church were debating in council whether
she had a soul or not, charging her with bringing sin, sickness and death into the world."

"Exactly. St. John Damascene called her 'a daughter of falsehood and a sentinel of hell'; St.
Jerome came in with 'Woman is the gate of the devil, the road to iniquity, the sting of the
scorpion'; St. Gregory, I believe, considered her to have no comprehension of goodness; pious
old Tertullian complimented her with corrupting those whom Satan dare not attack; and then
there was St. Chrysostom--really he was much more charitable than his fellow Saints--it always
seemed to me he was not only more humane but more human--more interested, you might say. You
know he said, 'Woman is a necessary evil, a domestic peril, a deadly fascination, a painted
ill.' It always seemed to me St. Chrysostom had a past. But really, I think they all went too
far. I don't know woman very well, but I suspect she has to find her moral authority where
man finds his--within herself."

"You know what made me ask--a little woman in town came to see Allan not long ago to know if
she mightn't leave her husband--she had what seemed to her sufficient reason."

"I imagine Allan said 'no.'"

"He did. Would you have advised her differently?"

"Bless you, no. I'd advise her to obey her priest. The fact that she consulted him shows that
she has no law of her own. St. Paul said this wise and deep thing: 'I know and am persuaded
by the Lord Jesus that there is nothing unclean of itself; but to him that esteemeth anything
unclean, to him it is unclean!'"

"Then it lay in her own view of it. If she had felt free to go, she would have done right to go."

"Naturally."

"Yet Allan talked to her about the sanctity of the home."

"I doubt if the sanctity of the home is maintained by keeping unwilling mates together, Nance.
I can imagine nothing less sanctified than a home of that sort--peopled by a couple held together
against the desire of either or both. The willing mates need no compulsion, and they're the
ones, it seems to me, that have given the home its reputation for sanctity. I never thought
much about divorce, but I can see that much at once. Of course, Allan takes the Church's attitude,
which survives from a time when a woman was bought and owned; when the God of Moses classed
her with the ox and the ass as a thing one must not covet."

"You really think if a woman has made a failure of her marriage she has a right to break it."

"That seems sound as a general law, Nance--better for her to make a hundred failures, for that
matter, than stay meekly in the first because of any superstition. But, mind you, if she suspects
that the Church may, after all, have succeeded in tying up the infinite with red-tape and sealing-wax--believes
that God is a large, dark notary-public who has recorded her marriage in a book--she will do
better to stay. Doubtless the conceit of it will console her--that the God who looks after
the planets has an eye on her, to see that she makes but one guess about so uncertain a thing
as a man."

"Then you would advise--"

"No, I wouldn't. The woman who has to be advised should never take advice. I dare say divorce
is quite as hazardous as marriage, though possibly most people divorce with a somewhat riper
discretion than they marry with. But the point is that neither marriage nor divorce can be
considered a royal road to happiness, and a woman ought to get her impetus in either case from
her own inner consciousness. I should call divorcing by advice quite as silly as marrying by it."

"But it comes at last to her own law in her own heart?"

"When she has awakened to it--when she honestly feels it. God's law for woman is the same as
for man--and he has but two laws for both that are universal and unchanging: The first is,
they are bound at all times to desire happiness; the second is, that they can be happy only
by being wise--which is what we sometimes mean when we say 'good,' but of course no one knows
what wisdom is for all, nor what goodness is for all, because we are not mechanical dolls of
the same pattern. That's why I reverence God--the scheme is so ingenious--so productive of
variety in goodness and wisdom. Probably an evil marriage is as hard to be quit of as any vice.
People persist long after the sanctity has gone--because they lack moral courage. Hoover was
quite that way with cigarettes. If some one could only have made Jim believe that God had joined
him to cigarettes, and that he mustn't quit them or he'd shatter the foundations of our domestic
integrity--he'd have died in cheerful smoke--very soon after a time when he says I saved his
life. All he wanted was some excuse to go on smoking. Most people are so--slothful-souled.
But remember, don't advise your friend in town. Her asking advice is a sign that she shouldn't
have it. She is not of the coterie that Paul describes--if you don't mind Paul once more--'Happy
is he that condemneth not himself in that which he alloweth.'"

There had come to the woman a vast influx of dignity--a joyous increase in the volume of that
new feeling that called to her husband. She would have gone back, but one of the reasons would
have been because she thought it "right"--because it was what the better world did! But now--ah!
now--she was going unhampered by that compulsion which galls even the best. She was free to
stay away, but of her own glad, loyal will she was going back to the husband she had treated
unjustly, judged by too narrow a standard.

"Allan will be so astonished and delighted," she said, when the coupé rolled out of the train-shed.

She remembered now with a sort of pride the fine, unflinching sternness with which he had condemned
divorce. In a man of principles so staunch one might overlook many surface eccentricities.

CHAPTER XII

THE FLEXIBLE MIND OF A PLEASED HUSBAND

As they entered the little reception-room from the hall, the doors of the next room were pushed
apart and they saw Allan bowing out Mrs. Talwin Covil, a meek, suppressed, neutral-tinted woman,
the inevitable feminine corollary of such a man as Cyrus Browett, whose only sister she was.

The eyes of Nancy, glad with a knowing gladness, were quick for Allan's face, resting fondly
there during the seconds in which he was changing from the dead astonishment to live recognition
at sight of Bernal. During the shouts, the graspings, pokings, nudgings, the pumping of each
other's arms that followed, Nancy turned to greet Mrs. Covil, who had paused before her.

"Do sit down a moment and tell me things," she urged, "while those boys go back there to have
it out!"

Thus encouraged, Mrs. Covil dropped into a chair, seeming not loath to tell those things she
had, while Nancy leaned back and listened duteously for a perfunctory ten minutes. Her thoughts
ran ahead to Allan--and to Bernal--as children will run little journeys ahead of a slow-moving
elder.

Then suddenly something that the troubled little woman was saying fixed her attention, pulling
up her wandering thoughts with a jerk.

"--and the Doctor asked me, my dear, to treat it quite confidentially, except to bother Cyrus.
But, I'm sure he would wish you to know. Of course it is a delicate matter--I can readily understand,
as he says, how the public would misconstrue the Doctor's words and apply them generally--forgetting
that each case requires a different point of view. But with Harold it is really a perfectly
flagrant and dreadful case of mismating--due entirely to the poor boy's thoughtless chivalry--barely
twenty-eight, mind you--as if a man nowadays knows his mind at all well before thirty-five.
Of course, divorce is an evil that, broadly speaking, threatens the sanctity of our home life--no
one understands that better than your husband--and re-marriage after divorce is usually an
outrageous scandal--one, indeed, altogether too common--sometimes I wonder what we're coming
to, it seems to be done so thoughtlessly--but individual instances are different--'exceptions
prove the rule,' you know, as the old saying goes. Now Harold is ready to settle down, and
the girl is of excellent family and all that--quite the social and moral brace he needs, in fact."

Nancy was attentive, yet a little puzzled.

"But--you speak of your son, Harold--is he not already married?"

"That's it, my dear. You know what a funny, bright, mischievous boy Harold is--even a little
deliciously wild at times--doubtless you read of his marriage when it occurred--how these newspapers
do relish anything of the sort--she was a theatrical young woman--what they call a 'show girl,'
I believe. Humph!--with reason, I must say! Of all the egregious and inveterate showiness!
My dear, she is positively a creature! Oh, if they'd only invent a monocle that would let a
young man pierce the glamour of the footlights. I pledge you my word, she's--but never mind
that! Harold was a thoughtless, restless boy--not bad, you know, but heedless. Why, he was
quite the same about business. He began to speculate, and of course, being brother Cyrus's
nephew, his advantage was considerable. But he suddenly declared he wouldn't be a broker any
more--and you'd never guess his absurd reason: simply because some stock he held or didn't
hold went up or down or something on a rumour in the street that Mr. Russell Sage was extremely
ill! He said that this brought him to his senses. He says to me, 'Mater, I've not met Mr. Sage,
you know, but from what I hear of him it would be irrational to place myself in a position
where I should have to experience emotion of any sort at news of the old gentleman's taking-off.
An event so agreeable to the natural order of God's providence, so plausible, so seemly, should
not be endowed with any arbitrary and artificial significance, especially of a monetary character--one
must be able to view it absolutely without emotion of any sort, either of regret or rejoicing--one
must remain conscientiously indifferent as to when this excellent old gentleman passes on to
the Golden Shore'--but you know the breezy way in which Harold will sometimes talk. Only now
he seems really sobered by this new attachment--"

"But if he is already married--"

"Yes, yes--if you can call it married--a ceremony performed by one of those common magistrates--quite
without the sanction of the Church--but all that is past, and he is now ready to marry one
who can be a wife to him--only my conscience did hurt me a little, and brother Cyrus said to
me, 'You see Linford and tell him I sent you. Linford is a man of remarkable breadth, of rare
flexibility.'"

"Yes, and of course Allan was emphatically discouraging." Again she was recalling the fervour
with which he had declared himself on this point on that last day when he actually made her
believe in him.

"Oh, the Doctor is broad! He is what I should call adaptable. He said by all means to extricate
Harold from this wretched predicament, not only on account of the property interests involved,
but on account of his moral and spiritual welfare; that, while in spirit he holds deathlessly
to the indissolubility of the marriage tie, still it is unreasonable to suppose that God ever
joined Harold to a person so much his inferior, and that we may look forward to the real marriage--that
on which the sanctity of the home is truly based--when the law has freed him from this boyish
entanglement. Oh, my dear, I feel so relieved to know that my boy can have a wife from his
own class--and still have it right up there--with Him, you know!" she concluded with an upward
glance, as Nancy watched her with eyes grown strangely quiet, almost steely--watched her as
one might watch an ant. She had the look of one whose will had been made suddenly to stand
aside by some great inner tumult.

When her caller had gone she dropped back into the chair, absently pulling a glove through
the fingers of one hand--her bag and parasol on the floor at her feet. One might have thought
her on the point of leaving instead of having just come. The shadows were deepening in the
corners of the room and about her half-shut eyes.

A long time she listened to the animated voices of the brothers. At last the doors were pushed
apart and they came out, Allan with his hand on Bernal's shoulder.

"There's your bag--now hurry upstairs--the maid will show you where."

As Bernal went out, Nancy looked up at her husband with a manner curiously quiet.

"Well, Nance--" He stepped to the door to see if Bernal was out of hearing--"Bernal pleases
me in the way he talks about the old gentleman's estate. Either he is most reasonable, or I
have never known my true power over men."

Her face was inscrutable. Indeed, she only half heard.

"Mrs. Covil has been telling me some of your broader views on divorce."

The words shot from her lips with the crispness of an arrow, going straight to the bull's-eye.

He glanced quickly at her, the hint of a frown drawing about his eyes.

"Mrs. Covil should have been more discreet. The authority of a priest in these matters is a
thing of delicate adjustment--the law for one may not be the law for all. These are not matters
to gossip of."

"So it seems. I was thinking of your opposite counsel to Mrs. Eversley."

"There--really, you know I read minds, at times--somehow I knew that would be the next thing
you'd speak of."

"Yes?"

"The circumstances are entirely different--I may add that--that any intimation of inconsistency
will be very unpleasing to me--very!"

"I can see that the circumstances are different--the Eversleys are not what you would call
'important factors' in the Church--and besides--that is a case of a wife leaving her husband."

"Nance--I'm afraid you're not pleasing me--if I catch your drift. Must I point out the difference--the
spiritual difference? That misguided woman wanted to desert her husband merely because he had
hurt her pride--her vanity--by certain alleged attentions to other women, concerning the measure
of which I had no knowledge. That was a case where the cross must be borne for the true refining
of that dross of vanity from her soul. Her husband is of her class, and her life with him will
chasten her. While here--what have we here?"

He began to pace the floor as he was wont to do when he prepared a sermon.

"Here we have a flagrant example of what is nothing less than spiritual miscegenation--that's
it!--why didn't I think of that phrase before--spiritual miscegenation. A rattle-brained boy,
with the connivance of a common magistrate, effects a certain kind of alliance with a person
inferior to him in every point of view--birth, breeding, station, culture, wealth--a person,
moreover, who will doubtless be glad to relinquish her so-called rights for a sum of money.
Can that, I ask you, be called a marriage? Can we suppose an all-wise God to have joined two
natures so ill-adapted, so mutually exclusive, so repellent to each other after that first
glamour is past. Really, such a supposition is not only puerile but irreverent. It is the conventional
supposition, I grant, and theoretically, the unvarying supposition of the Church; but God has
given us reasoning powers to use fearlessly--not to be kept superstitiously in the shackles
of any tradition whatsoever. Why, the very Church itself from its founding is an example of
the wisdom of violating tradition when it shall seem meet--it has always had to do this."

"I see, Allan--every case must be judged by itself; every marriage requires a special ruling--"

"Well--er--exactly--only don't get to fancying that you could solve these problems. It's difficult
enough for a priest."

"Oh, I'm positive a mere woman couldn't grapple with them--she hasn't the mind to! All she
is capable of is to choose who shall think for her."

"And of course it would hardly do to announce that I had counselled a certain procedure of
divorce and re-marriage--no matter how flagrant the abuse, nor how obvious the spiritual equity
of the step. People at large are so little analytical."

"'Flexible,' Mr. Browett told his sister you were. He was right--you are flexible, Allan--more
so than I ever suspected."

"Nance--you please me--you are a good girl. Now I'm going up to Bernal. Bernal certainly pleases
me. Of course I shall do the handsome thing by him if he acts along the lines our talk has
indicated."

She still sat in the falling dusk, in the chair she had taken two hours before, when Aunt Bell
came in, dressed for dinner.

"Mercy, child! Do you know how late it is?"

"What did you say, Aunt Bell?"

"I say do you know how late it is?"

"Oh--not too late!"

"Not too late--for what?"

There was a pause, then she said: "Aunt Bell, when a woman comes to make her very last effort
at self-deception, why does she fling herself into it with such abandon--such pretentious flourishes
of remorse--and things? Is it because some under layer of her soul knows it will be the last
and will have it a thorough test? I wonder how much of an arrant fraud a woman may really be
to herself, even in her surest, happiest moments."

"There you are again, wondering, wondering--instead of accepting things and dressing for dinner.
Have you seen Allan?"

"Oh, yes--I've been seeing him for three days--through a glass, darkly."

Aunt Bell flounced on into the library, trailing something perilously near a sniff.

Bernal came down the stairs and stood in the door.

"Well, Nance!" He went to stand before her and she looked up to him. There was still light
enough to see his eyes--enough to see, also, that he was embarrassed.

"Well--I've had quite a talk with Allan." He laughed a little constrained, uneasy laugh, looking
quickly at her to see if she might be observing him. "He's the same fine old chap, isn't he?"
Quickly his eyes again sought her face. "Yes, indeed, he's the same old boy--a great old Allan--only
he makes me feel that I have changed, Nance."

She arose from her chair, feeling cramped and restless from sitting so long.

"I'm sure you haven't changed, Bernal."

"Oh, I must have!"

He was looking at her very closely through the dusk.

"Yes, we had an interesting talk," he said again.

He reached out to take one of her hands, which he held an instant in both his own. "He's a
rare old Allan, Nance!"

CHAPTER XIII

THE WHEELS WITHIN WHEELS OF THE GREAT MACHINE

For three days the brothers were inseparable. There were so many ancient matters to bring forward
of which each could remember but a half; so many new ones, of which each must tell his own
story. And there was a matter of finance between them that had been brought forward by Allan
without any foolish delay. Each of them spoke to Nancy about it.

"Bernal has pleased me greatly," said her husband. "He agrees that Grandfather Delcher could
not have been himself when he made that will--being made as it was directly after he sent Bernal
off. He finds it absurd that the old man, so firm a Christian, should have disinherited a Christian,
one devoted to the ministry of Jesus, for an unbeliever like Bernal. It is true, I talked to
him in this strain myself, and I cannot deny that I wield even a greater influence over men
than over women. I dare say I could have brought Bernal around even had he been selfish and
stubborn. By putting a proposition forward as a matter of course, one may often induce another
to accept it as such, whereas he might dispute it if it were put forward as at all debatable.
But as a matter of fact he required no talking to; he accepted my views readily. The boy doesn't
seem to know the value of money. I really believe he may decide to make over the whole of the
property to me. That is what I call a beautiful unselfishness. But I shall do handsomely by
him--probably he can use some money in that cattle business. I had thought first of ten thousand
dollars, but doubtless half that will be wiser. I shall insist upon his taking at least half
that. He will find that unselfishness is a game two can play at."

Nancy had listened to this absently, without comment. Nor had Bernal moved her to speech when
he said, "You know, Allan is such a sensitive old chap--you wouldn't guess how sensitive. His
feelings were actually hurt because I'd kept him out of grandad's money all these years. He'd
forgotten that I didn't know I was doing it. Of course the old boy was thinking what he'd have
done in my place--but I think I can make it right with him--I'm sure now he knows I didn't
mean to wrong him."

Yet during this speech he had shot furtive little questioning looks at her face, as if to read
those thoughts he knew she would not put into words.

But she only smiled at Bernal. Her husband, however, found her more difficult than ever after
communicating his news to her. He tried once to imagine her being dissatisfied with him for
some reason. But this attempt he abandoned. Thereafter he attributed her coldness, aloofness,
silence, and moodiness to some nervous malady peculiar to the modern woman. Bernal's presence
kept him from noting how really pronounced and unwavering her aversion had become.

Nor did Bernal note her attitude. Whatever he may have read in Allan at those times when the
look of cold appraisement was turned full upon him, he had come to know of his brother's wife
only that she was Nancy of the old days, strangely surviving to greet him and be silent with
him, or to wonder with him when he came in out of that preposterous machine of many wheels
that they called the town. No one but Nancy saw anything about it to wonder at.

To Bernal, after his years in the big empty places, it was a part of all the world and of all
times compacted in a small space. One might see in it ancient Jerusalem, Syria, Persia, Rome
and modern Babylon--with something still peculiar and unclassifiable that one would at length
have to call New York. And to make it more absorbing, the figures were always moving. Where
so many were pressed together each was weighted by a thousand others--the rich not less than
the poor; each was stirred to quick life and each was being visibly worn down by the ceaseless
friction.

When he had walked the streets for a week, he saw the city as a huge machine, a machine to
which one might not even deliver a message without becoming a part of it--a wheel of it. It
was a machine always readjusting, always perfecting, always repairing itself--casting out worn
or weak parts and taking in others--ever replacing old wheels with new ones, and never disdaining
any new wheel that found its place--that could give its cogs to the general efficiency, consenting
to be worn down by the unceasing friction.

Looking down Broadway early one evening--a shining avenue of joy--he thought of the times when
he had gazed across a certain valley of his West and dreamed of bringing a message to this spot.

Against the sky many electric signs flamed garishly. Beneath them were the little grinding
wheels of the machine--satisfied, joyous, wisely sufficient unto themselves, needing no message--least
of all the simple old truth he had to give. He tried to picture his message blazing against
the sky among the other legends: from where he stood the three most salient were the names
of a popular pugilist, a malt beverage and a theatre. The need of another message was not apparent.

So he laughed at himself and went down into the crowd foregathered in ways of pleasure, and
there he drank of the beer whose name was flaunted to the simple stars. Truly a message to
this people must be put into a sign of electric bulbs; into a phonograph to be listened to
for a coin, with an automatic banjo accompaniment; or it must be put upon the stage to be acted
or sung or danced! Otherwise he would be a wheel rejected--a wheel ground up in striving to
become a part of the machine at a place where no wheel was needed.

For another experience cooling to his once warm hopes, the second day of his visit Allan had
taken him to his weekly Ministers' Meeting--an affair less formidable than its title might imply.

A dozen or so good fellows of the cloth had luncheon together each Tuesday at the house of
one or another, or at a restaurant; and here they talked shop or not as they chose, the thing
insisted upon being congeniality--that for once in the week they should be secure from bores.

Here Presbyterian and Unitarian met on common ground; Baptist, Catholic, Episcopalian, Congregationalist,
Methodist--all became brothers over the soup. Weekly they found what was common and helpful
to all in discussing details of church administration, matters of faith, methods of handling
their charitable funds; or the latest heresy trial. They talked of these things amiably, often
lightly. They were choice spirits relaxed, who might be grave or gay, as they listed.

Their vein was not too serious the day Bernal was his brother's guest, sitting between the
very delightful Father Riley and the exciting Unitarian, one Whittaker. With tensest interest
he listened to their talk.

At first there was a little of Delitzsch and his Babel-Bible addresses, brought up by Selmour,
an amiable Presbyterian of shining bare pate and cheerful red beard, a man whom scandal had
filliped ever so coyly with a repute of leanings toward Universalism.

This led to a brief discussion of the old and new theology--Princeton standing for the old
with its definition of Christianity as "a piece of information given supernaturally and miraculously";
Andover standing for the new--so alleged Whittaker--with many polite and ingenious evasions
of this proposition without actually repudiating it.

The Unitarian, however, was held to be the least bit too literal in his treatment of propositions
not his own.

Then came Pleydell, another high-church Episcopalian who, over his chop and a modest glass
of claret, declared earnest war upon the whole Hegel-Darwinian-Wellhausen school. His method
of attack was to state baldly the destructive conclusions of that school--that most of the
books of the Old Testament are literary frauds, intentionally misrepresenting the development
of religion in Israel; that the whole Mosaic code is a later fabrication and its claim to have
been given in the wilderness an historical falsehood. From this he deduced that a mere glance
at the Bible, as the higher critics explain it, must convince the earnest Christian that he
can have no share in their views. "Deprive Christianity of its supernatural basis," he said,
"and you would have a mere speculative philosophy. Deny the Fall of Man in the Garden of Eden,
and the Atonement becomes meaningless. If we have not incurred God's wrath through Adam's disobedience,
we need no Saviour. That is the way to meet the higher criticism," he concluded earnestly.

As the only rule of the association was that no man should talk long upon any matter, Floud,
the fiery and aggressive little Baptist, hereupon savagely reviewed a late treatise on the
ethnic Trinities, put out by a professor of ecclesiastical history in a New England theological
seminary. Floud marvelled that this author could retain his orthodox standing, for he viewed
the Bible as a purely human collection of imperfect writings, the wonder-stories concerning
the birth and death of Jesus as deserving no credence, and denied to Christianity any supernatural
foundation. Polytheism was shown to be the soil from which all trinitarian conceptions naturally
spring--the Brahmanic, Zoroastrian, Homeric, Plotinian, as well as the Christian trinity--the
latter being a Greek idea engrafted on a Jewish stalk. The author's conclusion, by which he
reached "an undogmatic gospel of the spirit, independent of all creeds and forms--a gospel
of love to God and man, with another Trinity of Love, Truth and Freedom," was particularly
irritating to the disturbed Baptist, who spoke bitterly of the day having dawned when the Church's
most dangerous enemies were those critical vipers whom she had warmed in her own bosom.

Suffield, the gaunt, dark, but twinkling-eyed Methodist, also sniffed at the conclusion of
the ethnic-trinities person. "We have an age of substitutes," he remarked. "We have had substitutes
for silk and sealskin--very creditable substitutes, so I have been assured by a lady in whom
I have every confidence--substitutes for coffee, for diamonds--substitutes for breakfast which
are widely advertised--substitutes for medicine--and now we are coming to have substitutes
for religion--even a substitute for hell!"

Hereupon he told of a book he had read, also written by an orthodox professor of theology,
in which the argument, advanced upon scriptural evidence, was that the wicked do not go into
endless torment, but ultimately shrivel and sink into a state of practical unconsciousness.
Yet the author had been unable to find any foundation for universalism. This writer, Suffield
explained, holds that the curtain falls after the judgment on a lost world. Nor is there probation
for the soul after the body dies. The Scriptures teach the ruin of the final rejecters of Christ;
Christ teaches plainly that they who reject the Gospel will perish in the endless darkness
of night. But eternal punishment does not necessarily mean eternal suffering; hence the hypothesis
of the soul gradually shrivelling for the sin of its unbelief.

The amiable Presbyterian sniffed at this as a sentimental quibble. Punishment ceases to be
punishment when it is not felt--one cannot punish a tree or an unconscious soul. But this was
the spirit of the age. With the fires out in hell, no wonder we have an age of sugar-candy
morality and cheap sentimentalism.

But here the Unitarian wickedly interrupted, to remind his Presbyterian brother that his own
church had quenched those very certain fires that once burned under the pit in which lay the
souls of infants unbaptised.

The amiable Presbyterian, not relishing this, still amiably threw the gauntlet down to Father
Riley, demanding the Catholic view of the future of unbaptised children.

The speech of the latter was a mellow joy--a south breeze of liquid consonants and lilting
vowels finely articulated. Perhaps it was not a little owing to the good man's love for what
he called "oiling the rusty hinges of the King's English with a wee drop of the brogue"; but,
if so, the oil was so deftly spread that no one word betrayed its presence. Rather was his
whole speech pervaded by this soft delight, especially when his cherubic face, his pink cheeks
glistening in certain lights with a faint silvery stubble of beard, mellowed with his gentle
smile. It was so now, even when he spoke of God's penalties for the souls of reprobate infants.

"All theologians of the Mother Church are agreed," replied the gracious father, "first, that
infants dying unbaptised are excluded from the Kingdom of Heaven. Second, that they will not
enjoy the beatific vision outside of heaven. Third, that they will arise with adults and be
assembled for judgment on the last day. And, fourth, that after the last day there will be
but two states, namely: a state of supernatural and supreme felicity and a state of what, in
a wide sense, we may call damnation."

Purlingly the good man went on to explain that damnation is a state admitting of many degrees;
and that the unbaptised infant would not suffer in that state the same punishment as the adult
reprobate. While the latter would suffer positive pains of mind and body for his sins, the
unfortunate infant would doubtless suffer no pain of sense whatever. As to their being exempt
from the pain of loss, grieving over their exclusion from the sight of God and the glories
of His Kingdom, it is more commonly held that they do not suffer even this; that even if they
know others are happier than themselves, they are perfectly resigned to God's will and suffer
no pain of loss in regard to happiness not suited to their condition.

The Presbyterian called upon them to witness that his church was thus not unique in attaining
this sentimentality regarding reprobate infants.

Then little Floud cited the case of still another heretic within the church, a professor in
a western Methodist university, who declared that biblical infallibility is a superstitious
and hurtful tradition; that all the miracles are mere poetic fancies, incredible and untrue--even
irreverent; and that all spiritual truth comes to man through his brain and conscience. Modern
preaching, according to the book of this heretic, lacks power because so many churches cling
to the tradition that the Bible is infallible. It is the golden calf of their worship; the
palpable lie that gives the ring of insincerity to all their moral exhortations.

So the talk flowed on until the good men agreed that a peculiarity of the time lay in this:
that large numbers of ministers within the church were publishing the most revolutionary heresies
while still clinging to some shred of their tattered orthodoxy.

Also they decided that it would not be without interest to know what belief is held by the
man of common education and intelligence--the man who behaves correctly but will not go to church.

Here Father Riley sweetly reminded them--"No questions are asked in the Mother Church, gentlemen,
that may not be answered with authority. In your churches, without an authority superior to
mere reason, destructive questions will be asked more and more frequently."

Gravely they agreed that the church was losing its hold on the people. That but for its social
and charitable activities, its state would be alarming.

"Your churches!" Father Riley corrected with suave persistence. "No church can endure without
an infallible head."

Again and again during the meal Bernal had been tempted to speak. But each time he had been
restrained by a sense of his aloofness. These men, too, were wheels within the machine, each
revolving as he must. They would simply pity him, or be amused.

More and more acutely was he coming to feel the futility, the crass, absurd presumption of
what he had come back to undertake. From the lucid quiet of his mountain haunts he had descended
into a vale where antiquated cymbals clashed in wild discordance above the confusing clatter
of an intricate machinery--machinery too complicated to be readjusted by a passing dreamer.
In his years of solitude he had grown to believe that the teachers of the world were no longer
dominated by that ancient superstition of a superhumanly malignant God. He had been prepared
to find that the world-ideal had grown more lofty in his absence, been purified by many eliminations
into a God who, as he had once said to Nance, could no more spare the soul of a Hottentot than
the soul of a pope. Yet here was a high type of the priest of the Mother Church, gentle, Godly,
learned, who gravely and as one having authority told how God would blight forever the soul
of a child unbaptised, thus imputing to Deity a regard for mechanical rites that would constitute
even a poor human father an incredible monster.

Yet the marvel of it seemed to him to lie in this: that the priest himself lived actually a
life of loving devotion and sacrifice in marked opposition to this doctrine of formal cruelty;
that his church, more successfully than any other in Christendom, had met the needs of humanity,
coming closer to men in their sin and sickness, ministering to them with a deeper knowledge,
a more affectionate intimacy, than any other. That all these men of God should hold formally
to dogmas belying the humaneness of their actual practise--here was the puzzling anomaly that
might well give pause to any casual message-bringer. Struggle as he might, it was like a tangling
mesh cast over him--this growing sense of his own futility.

Along with this conviction of his powerlessness there came to him a new sense of reliance upon
Nancy. Unconsciously at first he turned to her for sunlight, big views and quiet power, for
the very stimulus he had been wont to draw from the wide, high reaches of his far-off valley.
Later, came a conscious turning, an open-eyed bringing of all his needs, to lay them in her
waiting lap. Then it was he saw that on that first night at Edom her confidence and enthusiasm
had been things he leaned upon quite naturally, though unwittingly. The knowledge brought him
a vague unrest. Furtive, elusive impulses, borne to him on the wings of certain old memories--memories
once resolutely put away in the face of his one, big world-desire--now came to trouble him.

It seemed that one must forever go in circles. With fine courage he had made straight off to
toil up the high difficult paths of the ideal. Never had he consciously turned, nor even swerved.
Yet here he was at length upon his old tracks, come again to the wondering girl.

Did it mean, then, that his soul was baffled--or did it mean that his soul would not suffer
him to baffle it, try as he might? Was that girl of the old days to greet him with her wondering
eyes at the end of every high path? These and many other questions he asked himself.

At the close of this day he sought her, eager for the light of her understanding eyes--for
a certain waiting sympathy she never withheld. As she looked up now with a kind of composed
gladness, it seemed to him that they two alone, out of all the world, were sanely quiet. Silently
he sank into a chair near her and they sat long thus, feeling no need of words. At last she spoke.

"Are you coming nearer to it, Bernal?"

He laughed.

"I'm farther away than ever, Nance. Probably there's but one creature in this city to-day as
out of place as I am. He's a big, awkward, country-looking dog, and he was lost on Broadway.
Did you ever see a lost dog in a city street? This fellow was actually in a panic, wholly demoralised,
and yet he seemed to know that he must conceal it for his own safety. So he affected a fine
air of confidence, of being very busy about an engagement for which he feared he might be late.
He would trot swiftly along for half a block, then pause as if trying to recall the street
number; then trot a little farther, and stop to look back as if the other party to his engagement
might happen along from that direction. It was a splendid bit of acting, and it deceived them
all, in that street of mutterers and hard faces. He was like one of them, busy and hurried,
but apparently cool, capable, and ominously alert. Only, in his moments of indecision, his
eyes shifted the least bit nervously, as if to note whether the real fear he felt were detected,
and then I could read all his secret consternation.

"I'm the same lost dog, Nance. I feel as he felt every time I go into that street where the
poor creatures hurry and talk to themselves from sheer nervous fatigue."

He ceased speaking, but she remained silent, fearing lest she say too little or too much.

"Nance," he said presently with a slow, whimsical glance, "I'm beginning to suspect that I'm
even more of a fool than Hoover thought me--and he was rather enthusiastic about it, I assure you!"

To which she at length answered musingly:

"If God makes us fools, doubtless he likes to have us thorough. Be a great fool, Bernal. Don't
be a small one."

CHAPTER XIV

THE INEFFECTIVE MESSAGE

The week had gone while he walked in the crowds, feeling his remoteness; but he knew at last
that he was not of the brotherhood of the zealots; that the very sense of humour by which he
saw the fallacies of one zealot prevented him from becoming another. He lacked the zealot's
conviction of his unique importance, yet one must be such a zealot to give a message effectively.
He began to see that the world could not be lost; that whatever might be vital in his own message
would, soon or late, be delivered by another. The time mattered not. Could he not be as reposeful,
as patient, as God?

In spite of which, the impulse to speak his little word would recur; and it came upon him stoutly
one day on his way up town. As the elevated train slowly rounded a curve he looked into the
open window of a room where a gloomy huddle of yellow-faced, sunken-cheeked, brown-bearded
men bent their heads over busy sewing-machines. Nearest the window, full before it, was one
that touched him--a young man with some hardy spirit of hope still enduring in his starved
face, some stubborn refusal to recognise the odds against him. And fixed to his machine, where
his eyes might now and then raise to it from his work, was a spray of lilac--his little spirit
flaunting itself gaily even from the cross. The pathos of it was somehow intensified by the
grinding of the wheels that carried him by it.

The train creaked its way around the curve--but the face dreaming happily over the lilac spray
in that hopeless room stayed in his mind, coercing him.

As he entered the house, Nancy met him.

"Do go and be host to those men. It's our day for the Ministers' Meeting," she continued, as
he looked puzzled, "and just as they sat down Allan was called out to one of his people who
is sick. Now run like a good boy and 'tend to them."

So it came that, while the impulse was still strong upon him, he went in among the dozen amiable,
feeding gentlemen who were not indisposed to listen to whomsoever might talk--if he did not
bore--which is how it befell that they had presently cause to remark him.

Not at first, for he mumbled hesitatingly, without authority of manner or point to his words,
but the phrase, "the fundamental defect of the Christian religion" caused even the Unitarian
to gasp over his glass of mineral water. His green eyes glittered pleasantly upon Bernal from
his dark face with its scraggly beard.

"That's it, Mr. Linford--tell us that--we need to know that--do we not, gentlemen?"

"Speak for yourself, Whittaker," snapped the aggressive little Baptist, "but doubtless Mr.
Linford has something to say."

Bernal remained unperturbed by this. Very earnestly he continued: "Christianity is defective,
judged even by poor human standards; untrue by the plain facts of human consciousness."

"Ah! Now we shall learn!" Father Riley turned his most gracious smile upon the speaker.

"Your churches are losing their hold upon men because your religion is one of separation, here
and hereafter--while the one great tendency of the age is toward brotherhood--oneness. Primitive
man had individual pride--family pride, city pride, state pride, national pride followed--but
we are coming now to the only permissible pride, a world pride--in which the race feels its
oneness. We are nearly there; even now the spirit that denies this actual brotherhood is confined
to the churches. The people outside more generally than you dream know that God does not discriminate
among religions--that he has a scheme of a dignity so true that it can no more permit the loss
of one black devil-worshipper than that of the most magnificent of archbishops."

He stopped, looking inquiringly--almost wistfully, at them.

Various polite exclamations assured him of their interest.

"Continue, by all means," urged Whittaker. "I feel that you will have even Father Riley edified
in a moment."

"The most cynical chap--even for a Unitarian," purled that good man.

Bernal resumed.

"Your God is a tribal God who performed his wonders to show that he had set a difference between
Israel and Egypt. Your Saviour continues to set the same difference: Israel being those who
believed his claim to Godship; Egypt those who find his evidence insufficient. But we humans
daily practise better than this preaching of retaliation. The Church is losing power because
your creeds are fixed while man, never ceasing to grow, has inevitably gone beyond them--even
beyond the teachings of your Saviour who threatened to separate father from son and mother
from daughter--who would distinguish sheep from goats by the mere intellectual test of the
opinion they formed of his miracles. The world to-day insists on moral tests--which Christianity
has never done."

"Ah--now we are getting at it," remarked the Methodist, whose twinkling eyes curiously belied
his grimly solemn face. "Who was it that wished to know the belief of the average unbeliever?"

"The average unbeliever," answered Bernal promptly, "no longer feels the need of a Saviour--he
knows that he must save himself. He no longer believes in the God who failed always, from Eden
to Calvary, failed even to save his chosen tribe by that last device of begetting a son of
a human mother who should be sacrificed to him. He no longer believes that he must have a mediator
between himself and that God."

"Really, most refreshing," chortled Father Riley. "More, more!" and he rapped for silence.

"The man of to-day must have a God who never fails. Disguise it as you will, your Christian
God was never loved. No God can be loved who threatens destruction for not loving him. We cannot
love one whom we are not free not to love."

"Where shall we find this God--outside of Holy Writ," demanded Floud, who had once or twice
restrained himself with difficulty, in spite of his amusement.

"The true God comes to life in your own consciousness, if you will clear it of the blasphemous
preconceptions imposed by Christianity," answered Bernal so seriously that no one had the heart
to interrupt him. "Of course we can never personify God save as a higher power of self. Moses
did no more; Jesus did no more. And if we could stop with this--be content with saying 'God
is better than the best man'--we should have a formula permitting endless growth, even as He
permits it to us. God has been more generous to us than the Church has been to Him. While it
has limited Him to that god of bloody sacrifice conceived by a barbaric Jew, He has permitted
us to grow so that now any man who did not surpass him morally, as the scriptures portray him,
would be a man of inconceivable malignity.

"You see the world has demonstrated facts that disprove the Godship of your God and your Saviour.
We have come, indeed, into a sense of such certain brotherhood that we know your hell is a
falsity. We know--a knowledge of even the rudiments of psychology proves--that there will be
a hell for all as long as one of us is there. Our human nature is such that one soul in hell
would put every other soul there. Daily this becomes more apparent. We grow constantly more
sensitive to the pain of others. This is the distinctive feature of modern growth--our increasing
tendency to find the sufferings of others intolerable to ourselves. A disaster now is felt
around the world--we burn or starve or freeze or drown with our remote brothers--and we do
what we can to relieve them because we suffer with them. It seems to me the existence of the
S.P.C.A. proves that hell is either for all of us or for none of us--because of our oneness.
If the suffering of a stray cat becomes our suffering, do you imagine that the minority of
the race which Christianity saves could be happy knowing that the great majority lay in torment?

"Suppose but two were left in hell--Judas Iscariot and Herbert Spencer--the first great sinner
after Jesus and the last of any consequence. One betrayed his master and the other did likewise,
only with far greater subtlety and wickedness--teaching thousands to disbelieve his claims
to godhood--to regard Christianity as a crude compound of Greek mythology and Jewish tradition--a
thing built of myth and fable. Even if these two were damned and all the rest were saved--can
you not see that a knowledge of their suffering would embitter heaven itself to another hell?
Father Riley was good enough to tell us last week of the state of unbaptised infants after
death. Will you please consider coldly the infinite, good God setting a difference for all
eternity between two babies, because over the hairless pate of one a priest had sprinkled water
and spoken words? Can you not see that this is untrue because it is absurd to our God-given
senses of humour and justice? Do you not see that such a God, in the act of separating those
children, taking into heaven the one that had had its little head wetted by a good man, and
sending the reprobate into what Father Riley terms, 'in a wide sense, a state of damnation'--"

Father Riley smiled upon him with winning sweetness.

"--do you not see that such a God would be shamed off his throne and out of heaven by the pitying
laugh that would go up--even from sinners?

"You insist that the truth touching faith and morals is in your Bible, despite its historical
inaccuracies. But do you not see that you are losing influence with the world because this
is not so--because a higher standard of ethics than yours prevails out in the world--a demand
for a veritable fatherhood of God and a veritable brotherhood of man--to replace the caricatures
of those doctrines that Christianity submits."

"Our young friend seems to think exceeding well of human nature," chirped Father Riley.

"Yes," rejoined Bernal. "Isn't it droll that this poor, fallen human nature, despised and reviled,
'conceived in sin and born in iniquity,' should at last call the Christian God and Saviour
to account, weigh them by its own standard, find them wanting, and replace them with a greater
God born of itself? Is not that an eloquent proof of the living God that abides in us?"

"Has it ever occurred to you, young man, that human nature has its selfish moments?" asked
the high-church rector--between sips of claret and water.

"Has it ever occurred to you that human nature has any but selfish moments?" replied Bernal.
"If so, your impression was incorrect."

"Really, Mr. Linford, have you not just been telling us how glorious is this nature of man--"

"I know--I will explain to you," he went on, moving Father Riley to another indulgent smile
by his willingness to instruct the gray-bearded Congregationalist who had interrupted.

"When I saw that there must be a hell for all so long as there is a hell for one--even for
Spencer--I suddenly saw there was nothing in any man to merit the place--unless it were the
ignorance of immaturity. For I saw that man by the very first law of his being can never have
any but a selfish motive. Here again practical psychology sustains me. You cannot so much as
raise your hand without an intention to promote your happiness--nor are you less selfish if
you give your all to the needy--you are still equally doing that which promotes your happiness.
That it is more blessed to give than to receive is a terse statement of a law scientifically
demonstrable. You all know how far more exquisite is the pleasure that comes from giving than
that which comes from receiving. Is not one who prefers to give then simply selfish with a
greater wisdom, a finer skill for the result desired--his own pleasure? The man we call good
is not less selfish than the man we call bad--only wiser in the ways that bring his happiness--riper
in that divine sensitiveness to the feelings of his brother. Selfish happiness is equally a
law with all, though it send one of us to thieving and another to the cross.

"Ignorance of this primary truth has kept the world in spiritual darkness--it has nurtured
belief in sin--in a devil, in a God that permits evil. For when you tell me that my assertion
is a mere quibble--that it matters not whether we call a man unselfish or wisely selfish--you
fail to see that, when we understand this truth, there is no longer any sin. 'Sin' is then
seen to be but a mistaken notion of what brings happiness. Last night's burglar and your bishop
differ not morally but intellectually--one knowing surer ways of achieving his own happiness,
being more sensitive to that oneness of the race which thrills us all in varying degrees. When
you know this--that the difference is not moral but intellectual, self-righteousness disappears
and with it a belief in moral difference--the last obstacle to the realisation of our oneness.
It is in the church that this fiction of moral difference has taken its final stand.

"And not only shall we have no full realisation of the brotherhood of man until this inevitable,
equal selfishness is understood, but we shall have no rational conception of virtue. There
will be no sound morality until it is taught for its present advantage to the individual, and
not for what it may bring him in a future world. Not until then will it be taught effectively
that the well-being of one is inextricably bound up with the well-being of all; that while
man is always selfish, his selfish happiness is still contingent on the happiness of his brother."

The moment of coffee had come. The Unitarian lighted a black cigar and avidly demanded more
reasons why the Christian religion was immoral.

"Still for the reason that it separates," continued Bernal, "separates not only hereafter but
here. We have kings and serfs, saints and sinners, soldiers to kill one another--God is still
a God of Battle. There is no Christian army that may not consistently invoke your God's aid
to destroy any other Christian army--none whose spiritual guides do not pray to God for help
in the work of killing other Christians. So long as you have separation hereafter, you will
have these absurd divisions here. So long as you preach a Saviour who condemns to everlasting
punishment for disbelief, so long you will have men pointing to high authority for all their
schemes of revenge and oppression here.

"Not until you preach a God big enough to save all can you arouse men to the truth that all
must be saved. Not until you have a God big enough to love all can you have a church big enough
to hold all.

"An Indian in a western town must have mastered this truth. He had watched a fight between
drunken men in which one shot the other. He said to me, 'When I see how bad some of my brothers
are, I know how good the Great Spirit must be to love them all!'"

"Was--was he a member of any church?" inquired the amiable Presbyterian, with a facetious gleam
in his eyes.

"I didn't ask him--of course we know he wasn't a Presbyterian."

Hereupon Father Riley and the wicked Unitarian both laughed joyously. Then the Congregationalist,
gazing dreamily through the smoke of his cigarette, remarked, "You have omitted any reference
to the great fact of Christianity--the sacrifice of the Son of Man."

"Very well, I will tell you about it," answered the young man quite earnestly, whereat the
Unitarian fairly glowed with wicked anticipations.

"Let us face that so-called sacrifice honestly. Jesus died to save those who could accept his
claim to god-ship--believing that he would go to sit at the right hand of God to judge the
world. But look--an engineer out here the other day died a horrible death to save the lives
of a scant fifty people--their mere physical lives--died out of that simple sense of oneness
which makes us selfishly fear for the suffering of others--died without any hope of superior
exaltation hereafter. Death of this sort is common. I would not belittle him you call the Saviour--as
a man he is most beautiful and moving to me--but that shall not blind me to the fact that the
sacrificial element in his death is surpassed daily by common, dull humans."

A veiled uneasiness was evident on the part of his listeners, but the speaker gave no heed.

"This spectacle of sacrifice, of devotion to others, is needed as an uplift," he went on earnestly,
"but why dwell upon one remote--obscured by claims of a God-jugglery which belittle it if they
be true--when all about you are countless plain, unpretentious men and women dying deaths and--what
is still greater,--living lives of cool, relentless devotion out of sheer human love.

"Preach this divineness of human nature and you will once more have a living church. Preach
that our oneness is so real that the best man is forever shackled to the worst. Preach that
sin is but ignorant selfishness, less admirable than virtue only as ignorance is less admirable
than knowledge.

"In these two plain laws--the individual's entire and unvarying selfishness and his ever-increasing
sensitiveness to the sufferings of others--there is the promise not of a heaven and a hell,
but of a heaven for all--which is what the world is more and more emphatically demanding--which
it will eventually produce even here--for we have as little sensed the possibilities of man's
life here as we have divined the attributes of God himself.

"Once you drove away from your church the big men, the thinkers, the fearless--the souls God
must love most truly were it possible to conceive him setting a difference among his creatures.
Now you drive away even the merely intelligent rabble. The average man knows your defect--knows
that one who believes Christ rose from the dead is not by that fact the moral superior of one
who believes he did not; knows, indeed, of God, that he cannot be a fussy, vain, blustering
creature who is forever failing and forever visiting the punishment for his failures upon his
puppets.

"This is why you are no longer considered a factor in civilisation, save as a sort of police-guard
upon the very ignorant. And you are losing this prestige. Even the credulous day-labourer has
come to weigh you and find you wanting--is thrilling with his own God-assurance and stepping
forth to save himself as best he can.

"But, if you would again draw man, heat him, weld him, hold him--preach Man to him, show him
his own goodness instead of loading him with that vicious untruth of his conception in iniquity.
Preach to him the limitless devotion of his common dull brothers to one another through their
sense of oneness. Show him the common beautiful, wonderful, selfish self-giving of humanity,
not for an hour or for a day, but for long hard life-times. Preach the exquisite adjustment
of that human nature which must always seek its own happiness, yet is slowly finding that that
happiness depends on the happiness of all. The lives of daily crucifixion without hope of reward
are abundant all about you--you all know them. And if once you exploit these actual sublimities
of human nature--of the man in the street--no tale of devotion in Holy Writ will ever again
move you as these do. And when you have preached this long enough, then will take place in
human society, naturally, spontaneously, that great thing which big men have dreamed of doing
with their artificial devices of socialism and anarchism. For when you have demonstrated the
race's eternal oneness man will be as little tempted to oppress, starve, enslave, murder or
separate his brothers as he is now tempted to mutilate his own body. Then only will he love
his neighbor as himself--still with a selfish love.

"Preach Man to man as a discovery in Godhood. You will not revive the ancient glories of your
Church, but you will build a new church to a God for whom you will not need to quibble or evade
or apologise. Then you will make religion the one force, and you will rally to it those great
minds whose alienation has been both your reproach and your embarrassment. You will enlist
not only the scientist but the poet--and all between. You will have a God to whom all confess
instinctively."

CHAPTER XV

THE WOMAN AT THE END OF THE PATH

He stopped, noticing that the chairs were pushed back. There was an unmistakeable air of boredom,
though one or two of the men still smoked thoughtfully. One of these, indeed--the high church
rector--even came back with a question, to the undisguised apprehension of several brothers.

"You have formulated a certain fashion of belief, Mr. Linford, one I dare say appealing to
minds that have not yet learned that even reason must submit to authority; but you must admit
that this revelation of God in the human heart carries no authoritative assurance of immortality."

Bernal had been sitting in some embarrassment, dismayed at his own vehemence, but this challenge
stirred him.

"True," he answered, "but let us thank God for uncertainty, if it take the place of Christian
belief in a sparsely peopled heaven and a crowded hell."

"Really, you know--"

"I know nothing of a future life; but I prefer ignorance to a belief that the most heinous
baby that ever died in sin is to languish in a state of damnation--even 'in a wide sense' as
our good friend puts it."

"But, surely, that is the first great question of all people in all ages--'If a man die shall
he live again?'

"Because there has never been any dignified conception of a Supreme Being. I have tried to
tell you what my own faith is--faith in a God wiser and more loving than I am, who, being so,
has devised no mean little scheme of revenge such as you preach. A God more loving than my
own human father, a God whose plan is perfect whether it involve my living or dying. Whether
I shall die to life or to death is not within my knowledge; but since I know of a truth that
the God I believe in must have a scheme of worth and dignity, I am unconcerned. Whether his
plan demand extinction or immortality, I worship him for it, not holding him to any trivial
fancy of mine. God himself can be no surer of his plan's perfection than I am. I call this
faith--faith the more perfect that it is without condition, asking neither sign nor miracle."

"And life is so good that I've no time to whine. If this ego of mine is presently to become
unnecessary in the great Plan, my faith is still triumphant. It would be interesting to know
the end, but it's not so important as to know that I am no better--only a little wiser in certain
ways--than yesterday's murderer. Living under the perfect plan of a perfect Creator, I need
not trouble about hidden details when so many not hidden are more vital. When, in some far-off
future, we learn to live here as fully and beautifully as we have power to, I doubt not that
in the natural ways of growth we shall learn more of this detail of life we call 'death'--but
I can imagine nothing of less consequence to one who has faith.

"I saw a stanza the other day that tells it well:

  "'We know not whence is life, nor whither death,
  Know not the Power that circumscribes our breath.
  But yet we do not fear; what made us men,
  What gave us love, shall we not trust again?'"

While quoting the lines his eyes had been straight ahead, absently dwelling upon the space
between the slightly parted doors that gave into the next room. But even as he spoke, the last
line faltered and halted. His glance slowly stiffened out of widening eyes to the face it had
caught there--a face new, strange, mesmeric, that all at once enchained him soul and body.
With a splendid, reckless might it assailed him--left him dazed, deaf, speechless.

It was the face of Nancy, for the first time all its guards down. Full upon him flamed the
illumined eyes that made the face a yielding radiance; lifted a little was the chin of gentle
curves, the under lip caught as if in that quivering eagerness she no longer breathed--the
face of Nancy, no longer wondering, Nancy at last compelled and compelling. A moment the warm
light flashed from each to each.

He stopped in a sudden bewilderment, looking blankly, questioningly at the faces about him.
Then out of the first chaos came the sense of having awakened from some long, quiet sleep--of
having suddenly opened his eyes upon a world from which the morning mists had lifted, to see
himself--and the woman who stood always at the end of that upward path--face to face for the
first time. One by one his outer sensations returned. At first he heard a blurred murmuring,
then he became aware that some of the men were looking at him curiously, that one of them had
addressed him. He smiled apologetically.

"I beg your pardon. I--I couldn't have been listening."

"I merely asked," repeated Floud, "how you expect to satisfy humanity with the vague hope that
you would substitute for the Christian promise of eternal life."

He stared stupidly at the questioner.

"I--I don't know." He passed a hand slowly upward over his forehead. "Really I can hardly trouble
about those matters--there's so much life to live. I think I knew a moment ago, but I seem
to have forgotten, though it's doubtless no great loss. I dare say it's more important to be
unafraid of life than to be unafraid of death."

"You were full of reasons a moment ago," reminded Whittaker--"some of them not uninteresting."

"Was I? Oh, well, it's a small matter--I've somehow lost hold of it." He laughed awkwardly.
"It seems to have come to me just now that those who study an apple until it falls from its
stem and rots are even more foolish than those who pluck and eat."

Again he was silent, with a great hidden impatience for them to be gone. But Whittaker, the
wicked Unitarian, detained them still a moment longer.

"How hardly we should believe in a God who saved every one!" he breathed softly to the remains
of his cigar.

"Humph! Such a God would be a mere mush of concession!" retorted Floud, the Baptist.

"And how true," pursued the unruffled Unitarian, "that we cannot worship a 'mere mush of concession'--how
true that our God must hate what we hate, and punish what we would punish. We might stomach
a God who would save orthodox burglars along with orthodox bishops, but not one who saved unbaptised
infants and adults of unsound doctrine. Dear, dear, yes! We must have a God with a little human
spite in Him or He seems to be spineless."

"A hopeless cynic," declared the soft voice of the Catholic--"it's the Unitarianism working
out of him, mind you!"

"So glad to have met you!" continued the same good man to Bernal. "Your words are conducive
to thought--you're an earnest, decent lad at all events."

But Bernal scarcely heard them or identified the speakers. They were to him but so many noisy
wheels of the vast machine, each revolving as it must. His whole body seemed to send electric
sparks of repulsion out to them to drive them away as quickly as might be. All his energies
were centred to one mighty impulse.

At last the door closed and he stood alone with the disordered table and the pushed back chairs,
doggedly gathering himself. Then he went to the doors and with a hand to each, pushed them
swiftly apart.

She stood at the farther side of the room. She seemed to have fled there, and yet she leaned
toward him breathless, again with the under lip caught fast in its quivering--helpless, piteously
helpless. It was this that stayed him. Had she utterly shrunk away, even had he found her denying,
defiant--the aroused man had prevailed. But seeing her so, he caught at the back of a chair
as if to hold himself. Then he gazed long and exultingly into the eyes yielded so abjectly
to his. For a moment it filled him to see and know, to be certain that she knew and did not
deny. But the man in him was not yet a reasoning man--too lately had he come to life.

He stepped eagerly toward her, to halt only when one weak white hand faltered up with absurd
pretension of a power to ward him off. Nor was it her hand that made him stop then. That barrier
confessed its frailness in every drooping line. Again it was the involuntary submission of
her whole poise--she had actually leaned a little further toward him when he started, even
as her hand went up. But the helpless misery in her eyes was still a defense, passive but sufficient.

Then she spoke and his tension relaxed a little, the note of helpless suffering in her voice
making him wince and fall back a step.

"Bernal, Bernal, Bernal! It hurts me so, hurts me so! It's the Gratcher--isn't it hurting you,
too? Oh, it must be!"

He retreated a little, again grasping the back of the chair with one hand, but there was no
restraint in his voice.

"Laugh, Nance, laugh! You know what laughing does to them!"

"Not to this one, Bernal--oh, not to this one!"

"But it's only a Gratcher, Nance! I've been asleep all these years. Now I'm awake. I'm in the
world again--here, do you understand, before you. And it's a glad, good world. I'm full of
its life--and I've money--think of that! Yesterday I didn't know what money was. I was going
to throw it away--throw it away as lightly as I threw away all those good, precious years.
How much it seems now, and what fine, powerful stuff it is! And I, like a sleeping fool, was
about to let it go at a mere suggestion from Allan."

He stopped, as if under the thrust of a cold, keen blade.

"Allan--Allan!" he repeated dazedly while the look of pain deepened in the woman's eyes. He
stared back at her dumbly. Then another awakening became visible in him and he laughed awkwardly.

"It's funny, Nance--funny--and awful! Do you know that not until I spoke his name then had
a thought of Allan come to me? Can you comprehend it? I can't now. But it's the truth. I woke
up too suddenly. Allan--Allan--." It sounded as if he were trying to recall some forgotten
personality. "Oh, Allan!"

The last was more like a cry. He fell into the chair by which he had stood. And now the woman
erected herself, coming forward to stand before him, her head bowed, her hands convulsively
interlocked.

"Do you see it all, Bernal? Is it plain now? Oh, how it tortured me--that last Gratcher--the
one we make in our own image and yet make to be perfect. It never hurt me before, but now I
know why. It couldn't hurt me so long as I looked it straight in the eye--but just now my eyes
had to fall before it, and all in a second it was tearing me to pieces. That's the only defense
against this last Gratcher, Bernal, to look it in the eyes unafraid. And oh, it hurts so--and
it's all my own miserable fault!"

"No, it's your goodness, Nance." He spoke very quietly now. "Only the good have a Gratcher
that can't be laughed away. My own was late in coming. Your Gratcher has saved us."

He stood up and took her unresisting hands in both his own. They rested there in peace, yielding
themselves like tired children to caring arms.

"Now I shall be healed," she said.

"It will take me longer, Nance. My hurt is more stubborn, more complicated. I can't help it.
Something in me resists. I see now that I know too much--too much of you, too much of--"

She saw that he must have suffered some illumination upon Allan. There was a look of bitter
comprehension in his face as he broke off. She turned away from it.

When, an hour later, Allan came in, he found them chatting easily of the few people of St.
Antipas that Bernal had met. At the moment, they were discussing Mrs. Wyeth, whose face, Bernal
declared, was of a rare perfection. Nance turned to her husband.

"You must thank Bernal," she said, "for entertaining your guests this afternoon."

"He wouldn't if he knew what I said--or how it must have bored them. One thing, Nance, they
won't meet here again until you swear I've gone!"

"Bernal's heart is right, even if his theology doesn't always please me," said his brother
graciously, examining some cards that lay on the table. "I see Mrs. Wyeth has called," he continued
to Nancy, looking up from these.

"Yes. She wanted me to see her sister, poor Mrs. Eversley, who is ill at her house. I promised
to look in to-morrow."

"I've just been telling Nance how beautiful I think Mrs. Wyeth is," said Bernal. "She's rare,
with that face of the low-browed Greek. It's one of the memories I shall take back to my Eve-less
Eden."

"She is beautiful," said Nancy. "Of course her nose is the least bit thin and long, but it
rather adds zest to her face. Now I must dress for dinner."

When Nancy had gone, Bernal, who had been speaking with a marked lightness of tone, turned
to Allan with an equally marked seriousness.

"Old chap, you know about that money of mine--of Grandfather's?"

Allan instantly became attentive.

"Of course, there's no hurry about that--you must take time to think it over," he answered.

"But there is hurry! I shouldn't have waited so long to make up my mind.

"Then you have made up your mind?" questioned his brother, with guarded eagerness.

"Definitely. It's all yours, Allan. It will help you in what you want to do. And not having
it will help me to do what I want to do--make it simpler, easier. Take it--and for God's sake
be good to Nancy."

"I can't tell you how you please me, Bernal. Not that I'm avid for money, but it truly seems
more in accord with what must have been grandfather's real wish. And Nancy--of course I shall
be good to her--though at times she seems unable to please me."

There was a sanctified displeasure in his tone, as he spoke of Nancy. It caused Bernal to turn
upon him a keen, speculative eye, but only for a moment. And his next words had to do with
matters tangible. "To-morrow I'll do some of the business that can be done here. Then I'll
go up to Edom and finish the transfers that have to be made there." After a brief hesitation,
he added: "Try to please her a bit, Allan. That's all."

CHAPTER XVI

IN WHICH THE MIRROR IS HELD UP TO HUMAN NATURE

When, the next day, Nancy went to pay her promised visit to Mrs. Eversley, the rectory was
steeped in the deep household peace of mid-afternoon. Both Allan and Bernal had gone out soon
after luncheon, while Aunt Bell had withdrawn into the silence, there to meditate the first
letters of the alphabet of the inexpressible, to hover about the pleasant line that divides
the normal from the subliminal.

Though bruised and torn, Nancy was still grimly upright in the eye of duty, still a worthy
follower of orthodox ways. Buried in her own eventful thoughts in that mind-world where love
is born and dies, where beliefs rise and perish but no sound ever disturbs the stillness, she
made her way along the shaded side of the street toward the Wyeth residence. Not until she
had passed several doors beyond the house did she recall her errand, remember that her walk
led to a goal, that she herself had matters in hand other than thinking, thinking, thinking.

Retracing her steps, she rang the bell and asked for Mrs. Eversley. Before the servant could
reply, Mrs. Wyeth rustled prettily down the hall from the library at the back. She wore a gown
of primrose yellow. An unwonted animation lighted the cold perfection of her face, like fire
seen through ice.

"So glad to see you!" she said with graceful effusion--"And the Doctor? And that queer, fascinating,
puzzling brother of yours, how are they? So glad! Yes, poor sister keeps to her room and you
really mustn't linger with me an instant. I'm not even going to ask you to sit down. Go right
up. Her door's at the end of the hall, you know. You'll comfort the poor thing beautifully,
you dear!"

She paused for breath, a vivid smile taking the place of words. Mrs. Linford, rendered oddly,
almost obstinately reserved by this excessive cordiality, was conscious of something unnatural
in that smile--a too great intensity, like the greenness of artificial palms.

"Thank you so much for coming, you angel," she went on playfully, "for doubtless I shall not
be visible when you go. You see Donald's off in the back of the house re-arranging whole shelves
of wretched, dusty books and he fancies that he must have my suggestions."

"The door at the end of the hall!" she trilled in sweet but unmistakable dismissal, one arm
pointing gracefully aloft from its enveloping foam of draperies, that same too-intense smile
upon the Greek face that even Nancy, in moments of humane expansion, had admitted to be all
but faultless. And the latter, wondering not a little at the stiff disposition to have her
quickly away, which she had somehow divined through all the gushing cordiality of Mrs. Wyeth's
manner, went on upstairs. As she rapped at Mrs. Eversley's door, the bell of the street door
sounded in her ears.

Somewhat less than an hour after, she came softly out again, opening and closing the door noiselessly.
So effectually had she soothed the invalid, that the latter had fallen into a much-needed sleep,
and Nancy, eager to escape to that mind-world where the happenings are so momentous and the
silence is so tense, had crept like a mouse from the room.

At the top of the stairs she paused to gather up her skirts. Then her ears seemed to catch
the sound of voices on the floor below and she remained motionless for a second, listening.
She had no desire to encounter for the second time the torrent of Mrs. Wyeth's manner, no wish
to meet unnecessarily one so disagreeably gifted in the art of arousing in her an aversion
of which she was half ashamed.

No further sound greeted her straining ears, and, deciding that the way was clear, she descended
the thickly carpeted stairs. Near the bottom, opposite the open doors of the front drawing-room,
she paused to look into the big mirror on the opposite wall. As she turned her head for a final
touch to the back of her veil, her eyes became alive to something in that corner of the room
now revealed to her by the mirror--something that held her frozen with embarrassment.

Though the room lay in the dusk of drawn curtains, the gown of Mrs. Wyeth showed unmistakably--Mrs.
Wyeth abandoned to the close, still embrace of an unrecognized man.

Distressed at the awkwardness of her position, Nancy hesitated, not knowing whether to retreat
or go forward. She had decided to go on, observing nothing--and of course she had observed
nothing save an agreeable incident in the oft impugned domesticity of Mr. and Mrs. Wyeth--when
a further revelation arrested her.

Even as she put her foot to the next step, the face of Mrs. Wyeth was lifted and Mrs. Wyeth's
big eyes fastened upon hers through the impartial mirror. But their expression was not that
of the placid matron observed in a passage of conjugal tenderness. Rather, it was one of acute
dismay--almost fear. Poor Mrs. Weyth, who had just said, "Doubtless I shall not be visible
when you go!"

Even as she caught this look, Nancy started down the remaining steps, her cheeks hot from her
own wretched awkwardness. She wanted to hurry--to run; she might still escape without having
reason to suspect that the obscured person was other than he should be in the opinion of an
exacting world. Then, as her hand was at the door, while the silken rustling of that hurried
disentanglement was in her ears, the voice of Wyeth sounded remotely from the rear of the house.
It seemed to come from far back in the library, removed from them by the length of the double
drawing-rooms--a comfortable, smooth, high-pitched voice--lazy, drawling--

"Oh, Linford!"

Linford! The name seemed to sink into the stillness of the great house, leaving no ripple behind.
Before an answer to the call could come, she had opened the great door and pulled it sharply
to behind her.

Outside, she lingered a moment as if in serenely absent contemplation of the street, with the
air of one who sought to recall her next engagement. Then, gathering up her skirts, she went
leisurely down the steps and passed unhurriedly from the view of those dismayed eyes that she
felt upon her from the Wyeth window.

On the avenue she turned north and was presently alone in a shaded aisle of the park--that
park whose very trees and shrubs seem to have taken on a hard, knowing look from having been
so long made the recipients of cynical confidences. They seemed to understand perfectly what
had happened, to echo Wyeth's high-pitched, friendly drawl, with an added touch of mockery
that was all their own--"Oh--Linford!"

CHAPTER XVII

FOR THE SAKE OF NANCY

It was toward six o'clock when she ascended the steps of the rectory. Bernal, coming from the
opposite direction, met her at the door. Back of his glance, as they came together, was an
intimation of hidden things, and at sight of him she was smitten by an electric flash of wonder.
The voice of Wyeth, that friendly, untroubled voice, she now remembered had called to no specific
Linford. In the paralysis of embarrassment that had seized her in that darkened hallway, she
had failed to recall that there were at least two Linfords in existence. In an instant her
inner world, wrought into something like order in the past two hours, was again chaos.

"Why, Nance--you look like night, when there are no stars--what is it?" He scanned her with
an assumption of jesting earnestness, palpably meant to conceal some deeper emotion. She put
a detaining hand on his arm as he was about to turn the key in the lock.

"Bernal, I haven't time to be indirect, or beat about, or anything--so forgive the abruptness--were
you at Mrs. Wyeth's this afternoon?"

His ear caught the unusual note in her voice, and he was at once concerned with this rather
than with her question.

"Why, what is it, Nance--what if I was? Are you seeing another Gratcher?"

"Bernal, quick, now--please! Don't worry me needlessly! Were you at Mrs. Wyeth's to-day?"

Her eyes searched his face. She saw that he was still either puzzled or confused, but this
time he answered plainly,

"No--I haven't seen that most sightly cold lady to-day--more's the pity!"

She breathed one quick little sigh--it seemed to him strangely like a sigh of relief.

"I knew you couldn't have been." She laughed a little laugh of secrets. "I was only wondering
foolish wonders--you know how Gratchers must be humoured right up to the very moment you puff
them away with the deadly laugh."

Together they went in. Bernal stopped to talk with Aunt Bell, who was passing through the hall
as they entered; while Nancy, with the manner of one not to be deflected from some set purpose,
made straight for Allan's study.

In answer to her ominously crisp little knock, she heard his "Come!" and opened the door.

He sat facing her at his desk, swinging idly from side to side in the revolving chair, through
the small space the desk permitted. Upon the blotter before him she saw that he had been drawing
interminable squares, oblongs, triangles and circles, joining them to one another in aimless,
wandering sequence--his sign of a perturbed mind.

He glanced up with a look of waiting defiance which she knew but masked all his familiar artillery.

Instantly she determined to give him no opportunity to use this. She would end matters with
a rush. He was awaiting her attack. She would make none.

"I think there is nothing to say," she began quickly. "I could utter certain words, but they
would mean one thing to me and other things to you--there is no real communication possible
between us. Only remember that this--to-day--matters little--I had already resolved that sooner
or later I must go. This only makes it necessary to go at once."

She turned to the door which she had held ajar. At her words he sat forward in his chair, the
yellow stars blazing in his eyes. But the opening was not the one he had counted upon, and
before he could alter his speech to fit it, or could do more than raise a hand to detain her,
she had gone.

He sat back in his chair, calculating how to meet this mood. Then the door resounded under
a double knock and Bernal came in.

"Well, old boy, I'll be off to-night. The lawyer is done with me here and now I'll go to Edom
and finish what's to be done there. Then in a few days I'll be out of this machine and back
to the ranche. You know I've decided that my message to the world would best take the substantial
form of beef--a message which no one will esteem unpractical."

He paused, noting the other's general droop of gloom.

"But what's the trouble, old chap? You look done up!"

"Bernal--it's all because I am too good-hearted, too unsuspecting. Being slow to think evil
of others, I foolishly assume that others will be equally charitable. And you don't know what
women are--you don't know how the sentimental ones impose upon a man in my office. I give you
my word of honour as a man--my word of honour, mind you!--there never has been a thing between
us but the purest, the most elevated--the loftiest, most ideal--"

"Hold on, old chap--I shall have to take the car ahead, you know, if you won't let me on this
one...."

"--as pure a woman as God ever made, while as for myself, I think my integrity of purpose and
honesty of character, my sense of loyalty should be sufficiently known--"

"Say, old boy--" Bernal's face had lighted with a sudden flash of insight--"is it--I don't
wish to be indiscreet--but is it anything about Mrs. Wyeth?"

"Then you do know?"

"Nothing, except that Nance met me at the door just now and puzzled me a bit by her very curious
manner of asking if I had been at the Wyeth's this afternoon."

"What?" The other turned upon him, his eyes again blazing with the yellow points, his whole
figure alert. "She asked you that--Really?"

"To be sure!"

"And you said--"

"'No'--of course--and she mumbled something about having been foolish to think I could have
been. You know, old man, Nance was troubled. I could see that."

His brother was now pacing the floor, his head bent from the beautifully squared shoulders,
his face the face of a mind working busily.

"An idiot I was--she didn't know me--I had only to--"

Bernal interrupted.

"Are you talking to yourself, or to me?"

The rector of St. Antipas turned at one end of his walk.

"To both of us, brother. I tell you there has been nothing between us--never anything except
the most flawless idealism. I admit that at the moment Nancy observed us the circumstances
were unluckily such that an excitable, morbidly suspicious woman might have misconstrued them.

"If I follow you, old chap, Nancy observed some scene this afternoon in which it occurred to
her that I might have been an actor." There was quick pain, a sinking in his heart.

"She had reason to know it was one of us--and if I had denied it was I--"

"I see--why didn't you?"

"I thought she must surely have seen me--and besides"--his voice softened with affection--"do
you think, old chap, I would have shifted a misunderstanding like that on to your shoulders.
Thank God, I am not yet reduced to shirking the penalties of my own blameless acts, even when
they will be cruelly misconstrued."

"But you should have done so--It would mean nothing to me, and everything to you--to that poor
girl--poor Nance--always so helpless and wondering and so pathetically ready to believe! She
didn't deserve that you take it upon yourself, Allan!"

"No--no, don't urge! I may have made mistakes, though I will say that few men of my--well,
my attractions! Why not say it bluntly?--few men of my attractions, placed as I have been,
would have made so few--but I shall never be found shirking their consequences--it is not in
my nature, thank God, to let another bear the burden--I can always be a man!--"

"But, old boy--you must think of poor Nancy--not of me!" Again he felt the hurt of her suspicion.

"True--compassion requires that I think of her rather than of my own pride--and I have--but,
you see, it's too late. I committed myself before I knew she didn't know!"

"Let her believe it is still a mistake--"

"No, no--it would be trickery--and it's impracticable--I as good as confessed to her, you see--unless"--he
brightened here and stopped in his walk--"unless she could be made to believe that I meant
to shield you!"

"That's it! Really, you are an executor, Allan! Now we'll put the poor girl easy in her mind
again. I'll tell her you did it to shield me. You know it's important--what Nancy thinks of
you, old chap--she's your wife--and--it doesn't matter a bit how meanly--she thinks of me--of
course not. I dare say it will be better for me if she does think meanly of me--I'll tell her
at once--what was it I did?"

"No--no--she wouldn't believe you now. I dislike to say this, Bernal, but Nancy is not always
so trusting as a good woman should be--she has a habit of wondering--but--mind you, I could
only consent to this for the sake of her peace of mind--"

"I understand perfectly, old chap--it will help the peace of mind of all of us, I begin to
see--hers and mine--and yours."

"Well, then, if she can be made to suspect this other aspect of the affair without being told
directly--ah!--here's a way. Turn that messenger-call. Now listen--I will have a note sent
here addressed to you by a certain woman. It will be handed to Nancy to give to you. She will
observe the writing--and she will recognise it,--she knows it. You will have been anxious about
this note--expecting it--inquiring for it, you know. Get your dinner now, then stay in your
room so the maid won't see you when the note comes--she will have to ask Nance where you are--"

At dinner, which Bernal had presently with Aunt Bell and two empty seats, his companion regaled
him with comments upon the development of the religious instinct in mankind, reminding him
that should he ever aspire to a cult of his own he would find Boston a more fertile field than
New York.

"They're so much broader there, you know," she began. "Really, they'll believe anything if
you manage your effects artistically. And that is the trouble with you, Bernal. You appeal
too little to the imagination. You must not only have a novelty to preach nowadays, but you
must preach it in a spectacular manner. Now, that assertion of yours that we are all equally
selfish is novel and rather interesting--I've tried to think of some one's doing some act to
make himself unhappy and I find I can't. And your suggestion of Judas Iscariot and Mr. Spencer
as the sole inmates of hell is not without a certain piquancy. But, my dear boy, you need a
stage-manager. Let your hair grow, wear a red robe, do healing--"

He laughed protestingly. "Oh, I'm not a prophet, Aunt Bell--I've learned that."

"But you could be, with proper managing. There's that perfectly stunning beginning with that
wild healing-chap in the far West. As it is now, you make nothing of it--it might have happened
to anybody and it never came to anything, except that you went off into the wilderness and
stayed alone. You should tell how you fasted with him in a desert, and how he told you secrets
and imparted his healing power to you. Then get the reporters about you and talk queerly so
that they can make a good story of it. Also live on rice and speak with an accent--any kind
of accent would make you more interesting, Bernal. Then preach your message, and I'd guarantee
you a following of thousands in New York in a month. Of course they'd leave you for the next
fellow that came along with a key to the book of Revelations, or a new diet or something, but
you'd keep them a while."

Aunt Bell paused, enthusiastic, but somewhat out of breath.

"I'll quit, Aunt Bell--that's enough--"

"Mr. Spencer is an example for you. Contrast his hold on the masses with Mrs. Eddy's, who appeals
to the imagination. I'm told by those who have read his works that he had quite the knack of
logic, and yet the President of Princeton Theological Seminary preaches a sermon in which he
calls him 'the greatest failure of the age.' I read it in this morning's paper. His text was,
'Ye believe in God, believe also in me.' You see, there was an appeal to the imagination--the
most audacious appeal that the world has ever known--and the crowd will be with this clergyman
who uses it to refute the arguments of a man who worked hard through forty years of ill-health
to get at the mere dry common-sense of things. If Jesus had descended to logic, he'd never
have made a convert. But he appealed magnificently to the imagination, and see the result!"

His mind had been dwelling on Allan's trouble, but now he came back to his gracious adviser.

"You do me good, Aunt Bell--you've taken all that message nonsense out of me. I suppose I could
be one of them, you know--one of those fellows that get into trouble--if I saw it was needed;
but it isn't. Let the men who can't help it do it--they have no choice. Hereafter I shall worry
as little about the world's salvation as I do about my own."

When they had finished dinner he let it be known that he was not a little anxious concerning
a message that was late in arriving, and he made it a point, indeed, that the maid should advise
Mrs. Linford to this effect, with an inquiry whether she might not have seen the delayed missive.

Then, after a word with Allan, he went to his room and from his south window smoked into the
night--smoked into something approaching quietude a mind that had been rebelliously running
back to the bare-armed girl in dusky white--the wondering, waiting girl whose hand had trembled
into his so long ago--so many years during which he had been a dreaming fool, forgetting the
world to worship certain impalpable gods of idealism--forgetting a world in which it was the
divinely sensible custom to eat one's candy cane instead of preserving it superstitiously through
barren years!

He knew that he had awakened too late for more than a fleeting vision of what would have made
his life full. Now he must be off, up the path again, this time knowing certainly that the
woman would never more stand waiting and wondering at the end, to embitter his renunciations.
The woman was definitely gone. That was something, even though she went with that absurd, unreasoning,
womanish suspicion. And he had one free, dear look from her to keep through the empty days.

CHAPTER XVIII

THE FELL FINGER OF CALUMNY SEEMS TO BE AGREEABLY DIVERTED

Shut in his study, the rector of St. Antipas paced the floor with nicely measured steps, or
sat at his desk to make endless squares, circles, and triangles. He was engrossed in the latter
diversion when he heard the bell sound below. He sat back to hear the steps of the maid, the
opening of the door; then, after an interval, her steps ascending the stairs and stopping at
his own door; then her knock.

"A letter for Mr. Bernal, sir!"

He glanced at the envelope she held, noting its tint.

"He's not here Nora. Take it to Mrs. Linford. She will know where he is."

He heard her go down the hall and knock at another door. She was compelled to knock twice,
and then there was delay before the door opened.

He drew some pages of manuscript before him and affected to be busy at a work of revision,
crossing out a word here, interlining one there, scanning the result with undivided attention.

When he heard a knock he did not look up, but said, "Come!" Though still intent at his work,
he knew that Nancy stood there, looking from the letter to him.

"Nora said you sent this letter to me--it's for Bernal--"

He answered, still without looking up,

"I thought he might be with you, or that you might know where he was."

"I don't."

He knew that she studied the superscription of the envelope.

"Well, leave it here on my desk till he comes. I sent it to you only because I heard him inquiring
if a letter had not come for him--he seemed rather anxious about some letter--troubled, in
fact--doubtless some business affair. I hoped this might be what he was expecting."

His eyes were still on the page before him, and he crossed out a word and wrote another above
it, after a meditative pause. Still the woman at the door hesitated.

"Did you chance to notice the address on the envelope?"

He glanced at her now for the first time, apparently in some surprise: "No--it is not my custom
to study addresses of letters not my own. Nora said it was for Bernal and he had seemed really
distressed about some letter or message that didn't come--if you will leave it here--"

"I wish to hand it to him myself."

"As you like." He returned to his work, crossing out a whole line and a half with broad, emphatic
marks. Then he bent lower, and the interest in his page seemed to redouble, for he heard the
door of Bernal's room open. Nancy called:

"Bernal!"

He came to the door where she stood and she stepped a little inside so that he might enter.

"I am anxious about a letter. Ah, you have it!"

She was scanning him with a look that was acid to eat out any untruth in his face.

"Yes--it just came." She held it out to him. He looked at the front of the envelope, then up
to her half-shut eager eyes--eyes curiously hardened now--then he blushed flagrantly--a thorough,
riotous blush--and reached for the letter with a pitiful confusion of manner, not again raising
his uneasy eyes to hers.

"I was expecting--looking--for a message, you know--yes, yes--this is it--thank you very much,
you know!"

He stammered, his confusion deepened. With the letter clutched eagerly in his hand he went out.

She looked after him, intently. When he had shut his own door she glanced over at the inattentive
Allan, once more busy at his manuscript and apparently unconscious of her presence.

A long time she stood in silence, trying to moderate the beating of her heart. Once she turned
as if to go, but caught herself and turned again to look at the bent head of Allan.

At last it seemed to her that she could trust herself to speak. Closing the door softly, she
went to the big chair at the end of the desk. As she let herself go into this with a sudden
joy in the strength of its supporting arms, her husband looked up at her inquiringly.

She did not speak, but returned his gaze; returned it, with such steadiness that presently
he let his own eyes go down before hers with palpable confusion, as if fearing some secret
might lie there plain to her view. His manner stimulated the suspicion under which she now
seemed to labour.

"Allan, I must know something at once very clearly. It will make a mighty difference in your
life and in mine."

"What is it you wish to know?" His glance was oblique and his manner one of discomfort, the
embarrassed discomfort of a man who fears that the real truth--the truth he has generously
striven to withhold--is at last to come out.

"That letter which Bernal was so troubled about came from--from that woman--how could I avoid
seeing that when it was handed to me? Did you know it, too?"

"Why, Nancy--I knew--of course--I knew he expected--I mean the poor boy told me--" Here he
broke off in the same pitiful confusion that had marked Bernal's manner at the door--the confusion
of apprehended deceit. Then he began again, as if with gathered wits--"What was I saying? I
know nothing whatever of Bernal's affairs or his letters. Really, how should I? You see, I
have work on my mind." As if to cover his awkwardness, he seized his pen and hastily began
to cross out a phrase on the page before him.

"Allan!" Though low, it was so near a cry that he looked up in what seemed to be alarm. She
was leaning forward in the chair, one hand reaching toward him over the desk, and she spoke
rapidly.

"Allan, I find myself suspecting now that you tried to deceive me this afternoon--that Bernal
did, also, incredible as it sounds--that you tried to take the blame of that wretched thing
off his shoulders. That letter to him indicates it, his own pitiful embarrassment just now--oh,
an honest man wouldn't have looked as he did!--your own manner at this instant. You are both
trying--Oh, tell me the truth now!--you'll never dream how badly I need it, what it means to
my whole life--tell me, Allan--for God's sake be honest this instant--my poor head is whirling
with all the lies! Let me feel there is truth somewhere. Listen. I swear I'll stay by it, wherever
it takes me--here or away from here--but I must have it. Oh, Allan, if it should be in you,
after all--Allan! dear, dear--Oh! I do see it now--you can't deceive--you can't deceive!"

Slowly at first his head bent under her words, bent in cowardly evasion of her sharp glance,
the sidelong shiftings of his eyes portraying him, the generous liar, brought at last to bay
by his own honest clumsiness. Then, as her appeal grew warmer, tenderer, more insistent, the
fine head was suddenly erected and proud confession was written plainly over the glowing face--that
beautiful contrition of one who has willed to bear a brother's shame and failed from lack of
genius in the devious ways of deceit.

Now he stood nobly from his chair and she was up with a little loving rush to his arms. Then,
as he would have held her protectingly, she gently pushed away.

"Don't--don't take me yet, dear--I should be crying in another moment--I'm so--so beaten--and
I want not to cry till I've told you, oh, so many things! Sit again and let us talk calmly
first. Now why--why did you pretend this wretched thing?"

He faced her proudly, with the big, honest, clumsy dignity of a rugged man--and there was a
loving quiet in his tones that touched her ineffably.

"Poor Bernal had told me his--his contretemps. The rest is simple. He is my brother. The last
I remember of our mother is her straining me to her poor breast and saying, 'Oh, take care
of little Bernal!'" Tears were glistening in his eyes.

"From the very freedom of the poor boy's talk about religious matters, it is the more urgent
that his conduct be irreproachable. I could not bear that even you should think a shameful
thing of him."

She looked at him with swimming eyes, yet held her tears in check through the very excitement
of this splendid new admiration for him.

"But that was foolish--quixotic--"

"You will never know, little woman, what a brother's love is. Don't you remember years ago
I told you that I would stand by Bernal, come what might. Did you think that was idle boasting?"

"But you were willing to have me suspect that of you!"

He spoke with a sad, sweet gentleness now, as one might speak who had long suffered hurts in
secret.

"Dearest--dear little woman--I already knew that I had been unable to retain your love--God
knows I tried--but in some way I had proved unworthy of it. I had come to believe--painful
and humiliating though that belief was--that you could not think less of me--your words to-night
proved that I was right--you would have gone away, even without this. But at least my poor
brother might still seem good to you."

"Oh, you poor, foolish, foolish, man--And yet, Allan, nothing less than this would have shown
you truly to me. I can speak plainly now--indeed I must, for once. Allan, you have ways--mannerisms--that
are unfortunate. They raised in me a conviction that you were not genuine--that you were somehow
false. Don't let it hurt now, dear, for see--this one little unstudied, impetuous act of devotion,
simple and instinctive with your generous heart, has revealed your true self to me as nothing
else could have done. Oh, don't you see how you have given me at last what I had to have, if
we were to live on together--something in you to hold to--a foundation to rest upon--something
I can know in my heart of hearts is stable--despite any outward, traitorous seeming! Now forever
I can be loving, and loyal, in spite of all those signs which I see at last are misleading."

Again and again she sought to envelope him with acceptable praises, while he gazed fondly at
her from that justified pride in his own stanchness--murmuring, "Nance, you please me--you
please me!"

"Don't you see, dear? I couldn't reach you before. You gave me nothing to believe in--not even
God. That seeming lack of genuineness in you stifled my soul. I could no longer even want to
be good--and all that for the lack of this dear foolish bit of realness in you."

"No one can know better than I that my nature is a faulty one, Nance--"

"Say unfortunate, Allan--not faulty. I shall never again believe a fault of you. How stupid
a woman can be, how superficial in her judgments--and what stupids they are who say she is
intuitive! Do you know, I believed in Bernal infinitely more than I can tell you, and Bernal
made me believe in everything else--in God and goodness and virtue and truth--in all the good
things we like to believe in--yet see what he did!"

"My dear, I know little of the circumstances, but--"

"It isn't that--I can't judge him in that--but this I must judge--Bernal, when he saw I did
not know who had been there, was willing I should think it was you. To retain my respect he
was willing to betray you." She laughed, a little hard laugh, and seemed to be in pain. "You
will never know just what the thought of that boy has been to me all these years, and especially
this last week. But now--poor weak Bernal! Poor Judas, indeed!" There was a kind of anguished
bitterness in the last words.

"My dear, try not to think harshly of the poor boy," remonstrated Allan gently. "Remember that
whatever his mistakes, he has a good heart--and he is my brother."

"Oh! you big, generous, good-thinking boy, you--Can't you see that is precisely what he lacks--a
good heart? Oh, dearest, I needed this--to show Bernal to me not less than to show you to me.
There were grave reasons why I needed to see you both as I see you this moment."

There were steps along the hall and a knock at the door.

"It must be Bernal," he said--"he was to leave about this time."

"I can't see him again."

"Just this once, dear--for my sake! Come!"

Bernal stood in the doorway, hat in hand, his bag at his feet. With his hat he held a letter.
Allan went forward to meet him. Nancy stood up to study the lines of an etching on the wall.

"I've come to say good-bye, you know." She heard the miserable embarrassment of his tones,
and knew, though she did not glance at him, that there was a shameful droop to his whole figure.

Allan shook hands with him, first taking the letter he held.

"Good-bye--old chap--God bless you!"

He muttered, with that wretched consciousness of guilt, something about being sorry to go.

"And I don't want to preach, old chap," continued Allan, giving the hand a farewell grip, "but
remember there are always two pairs of arms that will never be shut to you, the arms of the
Church of Him who died to save us,--and my own poor arms, hardly less loving."

"Thank you, old boy--I'll go back to Hoover"--he looked hesitatingly at the profile of Nancy--"Hoover
thinks it's all rather droll, you know--Good-bye, old boy! Good-bye, Nancy."

"My dear, Bernal is saying good-bye."

She turned and said "good-bye." He stepped toward her--seeming to her to slink as he walked--but
he held out his hand and she gave him her own, cold, and unyielding. He went out, with a last
awkward "Good-bye, old chap!" to Allan.

Nancy turned to face her husband, putting out her hands to him. He had removed from its envelope
the letter Bernal had left him, and seemed about to put it rather hastily into his pocket,
but she seized it playfully, not noting that his hand gave it up with a certain reluctance,
her eyes upon his face.

"No more business to-night--we have to talk. Oh, I must tell you so much that has troubled
me and made me doubt, my dear--and my poor mind has been up and down like a see-saw. I wonder
it's not a wreck. Come, put away your business--there." She placed the letter and its envelope
on the desk.

"Now sit here while I tell you things."

An hour they were there, lingering in talk--talking in a circle; for at regular intervals Nancy
must return to this: "I believe no wife ever goes away until there is absolutely no shred of
possibility left--no last bit of realness to hold her. But now I know your stanchness."

"Really, Nance--I can't tell you how much you please me."

There was a knock at the door. They looked at each other bewildered.

"The telephone, sir," said the maid in response to Allan's tardy "Come in."

When he had gone, whistling cheerily, she walked nervously about the room, studying familiar
objects from out of her animated meditation.

Coming to his desk, she snuggled affectionately into his chair and gazed fondly over its litter
of papers. With a little instinctive move to bring somewhat of order to the chaos, she reached
forward, but her elbow brushed to the floor two or three letters that had lain at the edge
of the desk.

As she stooped to pick up the fallen papers the letter Bernal had left lay open before her,
a letter written in long, slanting but vividly legible characters. And then, quite before she
recognised what letter it was, or could feel curious concerning it, the first illuminating
line of it had flashed irrevocably to her mind's centre.

When Allan appeared in the doorway a few minutes later, she was standing by the desk. She held
the letter in both hands and over it her eyes flamed--blasted.

Divining what she had done, his mind ran with lightning quickness to face this new emergency.
But he was puzzled and helpless, for now her hands fell and she laughed weakly, almost hysterically.
He searched for the key to this unnatural behaviour. He began, hesitatingly, expecting some
word from her to guide him along the proper line of defense.

"I am sure, my dear--if you had only--only trusted me--implicitly--your opinion of this affair--"

At the sound of his voice she ceased to laugh, stiffening into a wild, grim intensity.

"Now I can look that thing straight in the eyes and it can't hurt me."

"In the eyes?" he questioned, blankly.

"I can go now."

"You will make me the laughing-stock of this town!"

For the first time in their life together there was the heat of real anger in his voice. Yet
she did not seem to hear.

"Yes--that last terrible Gratcher can't hurt me now."

He frowned, with a sulky assumption of that dignity which he felt was demanded of him.

"I don't understand you!"

Still the unseeing eyes played about him, yet she heard at last.

"But he will--he will!" she cried exultingly, and her eyes were wet with an unexplained gladness.

CHAPTER XIX

A MERE BIT OF GOSSIP

The Ministers' Meeting of the following Tuesday was pleasantly enlivened with gossip--retained,
of course, within seemly bounds. There was absent the Reverend Dr. Linford, sometime rector
of St. Antipas, said lately to have emerged from a state of spiritual chrysalis into a world
made new with truths that were yet old. It was concerning this circumstance that discreet expressions
were oftenest heard during the function.

One brother declared that the Linfords were both extremists: one with his absurdly radical
disbelief in revealed religion; the other flying at last to the Mother Church for that authority
which he professed not to find in his own.

Another asserted that in talking with Dr. Linford now, one brought away the notion that in
renouncing his allegiance to the Episcopal faith he had gone to the extreme of renouncing marriage,
in order that the Mother Church might become his only bride. True, Linford said nothing at
all like this;--the idea was fleeting, filmy, traceable to no specific words of his. Yet it
left a track across the mind. It seemed to be the very spirit of his speech upon the subject.
Certainly no other reason had been suggested for the regrettable, severance of this domestic
tie. Conjecture was futile and Mrs. Linford, secluded in her country home at Edom, had steadfastly
refused, so said the public prints, to give any reason whatsoever.

His soup finished, the Reverend Mr. Whittaker unfolded the early edition of an evening paper
to a page which bore an excellent likeness of Dr. Linford.

"I'll read you some things from his letter," he said, "though I'll confess I don't wholly approve
his taste in giving it to the press. However--here's one bit:

"'When I was ordained a priest in the Episcopal Church I dreamed of wielding an influence that
would tend to harmonise the conflicting schools of churchmanship. It seemed to me that my little
life might be of value, as I comprehended the essentials of church citizenship. I will not
dwell upon my difficulties. The present is no time to murmur. Suffice it to say, I have long
held, I have taught, nearly every Catholic doctrine not actually denied by the Anglican formularies;
and I have accepted and revived in St. Antipas every Catholic practice not positively forbidden.

"But I have lately become convinced that the Anglican orders of the ministry are invalid. Could
I be less than true to my inner faith in a matter touching the sacred verity of the Real Presence--the
actual body and blood of our Saviour?

"After conflict and prayer I have gone trustingly whither God has been pleased to lead me.
In my humble sight the only spiritual body that actually claims to teach truth upon authority,
the only body divinely protected from teaching error, is the Holy, Catholic and Roman Church.

"For the last time I have exercised my private judgment, as every man must exercise it once,
at least, and I now seek communion with this largest and oldest body of Christians in the world.
I have faced an emergency fraught with vital interest to every thinking man. I have met it;
the rest is with my God.

The reader had been absently stabbing at his fish with an aimless fork. He now laid down his
paper to give the food his entire attention.

"You see," began Floud, "I say one brother is quite as extreme as the other."

Father Riley smiled affably, and begged Whittaker to finish the letter.

"Your fish is fresh, dear man, but your news may be stale before we reach it--so hasten now--I've
a presentiment that our friend goes still farther afield."

Whittaker abandoned his fish with a last thoughtful look, and resumed the reading.

"May I conclude by reminding you that the issue between Christianity and science falsely so
called has never been enough simplified? Christianity rests squarely on the Fall of man. Deny
the truth of Genesis and the whole edifice of our faith crumbles. If we be not under the curse
of God for Adam's sin, there was never a need for a Saviour, the Incarnation and the Atonement
become meaningless, and our Lord is reduced to the status of a human teacher of a disputable
philosophy--a peasant moralist with certain delusions of grandeur--an agitator and heretic
whom the authorities of his time executed for stirring up the people. In short, the divinity
of Jesus must stand or fall with the divinity of the God of Moses, and this in turn rests upon
the historical truth of Genesis. If the Fall of man be successfully disputed, the God of Moses
becomes a figment of the Jewish imagination--Jesus becomes man. And this is what Science asserts,
while we of the outer churches, through cowardice or indolence--too often, alas! through our
own skepticism--have allowed Science thus to obscure the issue. We have fatuously thought to
surrender the sin of Adam, and still to keep a Saviour--not perceiving that we must keep both
or neither.

"There is the issue. The Church says that man is born under the curse of God and so remains
until redeemed, through the sacraments of the Church, by the blood of God's only begotten Son.

"Science says man is not fallen, but has risen steadily from remote brute ancestors. If science
be right--and by mere evidence its contention is plausible--then original sin is a figment
and natural man is a glorious triumph over brutehood, not only requiring no saviour--since
he is under no curse of God--but having every reason to believe that the divine favour has
ever attended him in his upward trend.

"But if one finds mere evidence insufficient to outweigh that most glorious death on Calvary,
if one regards that crucifixion as a tear of faith on the world's cold cheek of doubt to make
it burn forever, then one must turn to the only church that safeguards this rock of Original
Sin upon which the Christ is builded. For the ramparts of Protestantism are honeycombed with
infidelity--and what is most saddening, they are giving way to blows from within. Protestantism
need no longer fear the onslaughts of atheistic outlaws: what concerns it is the fact that
the stronghold of destructive criticism is now within its own ranks--a stronghold manned by
teachers professedly orthodox.

"It need cause little wonder, then, that I have found safety in the Mother Church. Only there
is one compelled by adequate authority to believe. There alone does it seem to be divined that
Christianity cannot relinquish the first of its dogmas without invalidating those that rest
upon it.

"For another vital matter, only in the Catholic Church do I find combated with uncompromising
boldness that peculiarly modern and vicious sentimentality which is preached as 'universal
brotherhood.' It is a doctrine spreading insidiously among the godless masses outside the true
Church, a chimera of visionaries who must be admitted to be dishonest, since again and again
has it been pointed out to them that their doctrine is unchristian--impiously and preposterously
unchristian.

"Upon these two rocks--of original sin and of prince and subject, riches and poverty--by divine
right, the Catholic Church has taken its stand; and within this church will the final battle
be fought on these issues. Thank God He has found my humble self worthy to fight upon His side
against the hordes of infidelity and the preachers of an unchristian social equality!"

There were little exclamations about the table as Whittaker finished and returned at last to
his fish. To Father Riley it occurred that these would have been more communicative, more sentient,
but for his presence. In fact, there presently ensued an eloquent silence in lieu of remarks
that might too easily have been indiscreet.

"Pray, never mind me at all, gentlemen--I'll listen blandly whilst I disarticulate this beautiful
bird."

"I say one is quite as extreme as the other," again declared the discoverer of this fact, feeling
that his perspicacity had not been sufficiently remarked.

"I dare say Whittaker is meditating a bitter cynicism," suggested Father Riley.

"Concerning that incandescent but unfortunate young man," remarked the amiable Presbyterian--"I
trust God's Providence to care for children and fools--"

"And yet I found his remarks suggestive," said the twinkling-eyed Methodist. "That is, we asked
for the belief of the average non-church-goer--and I dare say he gave it to us. It occurs to
me further that he has merely had the wit to put in blunt, brutal words what so many of us
declare with academic flourishes. We can all name a dozen treatises written by theologians
ostensibly orthodox which actually justify his utterances. It seems to me, then, that we may
profit by his blasphemies."

"How?" demanded Whittaker, with some bluntness.

"Ah--that is what the Church must determine. We already know how to reach the heathen, the
unbookish, the unthinking--but how reach the educated--the science-bitten? It is useless to
deny that the brightest, biggest minds are outside the Church--indifferentists or downright
opponents of it. I am not willing to believe that God meant men like these to perish--I don't
like to think of Emerson being lost, or Huxley, or Spencer, or even Darwin--Question: has the
Church power to save the educated?"

"Sure, I know one that has never lacked it," purled Father Riley.

"There's an answer to you in Linford's letter," added Whittaker.

"Gentlemen, you jest with me--but I shall continue to feel grateful to our slightly dogmatic
young friend for his artless brutalities. Now I know what the business man keeps to himself
when I ask him why he has lost interest in the church."

"There's a large class we can't take from you," said Father Riley--"that class with whom religion
is a mode of respectability."

"And you can't take our higher critics, either--more's the pity!"

"On my word, now, gentlemen," returned the Catholic, again, "that was a dear, blasphemous young
whelp! You know, I rather liked him. Bless the soul of you, I could as little have rebuked
the lad as I could punish the guiltless indecence of a babe--he was that shockingly naïf!"

"He is undoubtedly the just fruit of our own toleration," repeated the high-church rector.

"And he stands for our knottiest problem," said the Presbyterian.

"A problem all the knottier, I suspect," began Whittaker--

"Didn't I tell you?" interrupted Father Riley. "Oh, the outrageous cynic! Be braced for him, now!"

"I was only going to suggest," resumed the wicked Unitarian, calmly, "that those people, Linford
and his brother--and even that singularly effective Mrs. Linford, with her inferable views
about divorce--you know I dare say that they--really you know--that they possess the courage of--"

"Their convictions!" concluded little Floud, impatient alike of the speaker's hesitation and
the expected platitude.

"No--I was about to say--the courage--of ours."

A few looked politely blank at this unseasonable flippancy. Father Riley smiled with rare sweetness
and murmured, "So cynical, even for a Unitarian!" as if to himself in playful confidence.

But the amiable Presbyterian, of the cheerful auburn beard and the salient nose, hereupon led
them tactfully to safe ground in a discussion of the ethnic Trinities.