Then Paula talked with him very kindly and said he should have come immediately and told everything,
and it was right that he had told her all now so frankly, and that he would not regret it.
Then she said he could promise Jorgli ten francs, as soon as she had the cross in her hands again.

"Ten francs!" repeated Moni, full of astonishment, for he knew how Jorgli would have sold it
for much less. Then Moni rose and said he would go right away that very day to Kublis, and
if he got the cross he would bring it with him early the next morning. He ran along and was
once more able to leap and jump, for he had a much lighter heart and the heavy burden no longer
weighed him down to the ground.

When he reached home, he only put his goats in, told his grandmother he had an errand to do,
and ran at once down to Kublis. He found Jorgli at home and told him without delay what he
had done. At first the boy was very angry, but when he considered that all was known, he took
out the cross and asked:

"Will she give me anything for it?"

"Yes, and now you can see, Jorgli," said Moni, indignantly, "how by being honorable you will
receive ten francs, and by being deceitful only four: the ten francs you are going to have now."

Jorgli was very much amazed. He regretted that he had not gone immediately with the cross to
the Bath House, after he had picked it up in front of the door, for now he had not a clear
conscience and it might have been so different! But now it was too late. He gave the cross
to Moni, who hastened home with it, for it had already grown quite dark.

CHAPTER V

MONI SINGS AGAIN

Paula had given orders to be wakened early the next morning, for she wanted to be on the spot
when the goat-boy came. She was anxious to deal with him herself. That evening she had held
a long conversation with the landlord, and had then come out of his room quite happy; so she
must have planned something delightful with him.

When the goat-boy came along with his flock in the morning, Paula was already standing in front
of the house, and she called out:

"Moni, can't you sing even now?"

He shook his head. "No, I can't. I am always wondering how much longer Maggerli will go with
me. I never can sing any more as long as I live, and here is the cross." Whereupon he handed
her a little package, for the grandmother had wrapped it carefully for him in three or four papers.

Paula took out the cross from the wrappings and examined it closely. It really was her beautiful
cross with the sparkling stones, and quite unharmed. "Well, Moni," she said now very kindly,
"you have given me a great pleasure, for if it had not been for you, I might never have seen
my cross again. Now, I am going to give you a pleasure. Go take Maggerli there out of the shed,
she belongs to you now!"

Moni stared at the young lady in astonishment, as if it were impossible to understand her words.
At last he stammered: "But how--how can Maggerli be mine?"

"How?" replied Paula, smiling. "See, last evening I bought her from the landlord and this morning
I give her to you. Now can't you sing once more?"

"Oh! Oh! Oh!" exclaimed Moni and ran like mad to the shed, led the little goat out, and took
it in his arms. Then he leaped back and held out his hand to Paula and said over and over again:

"I thank you a thousand, thousand times! May God reward you! If I could do something nice for you!"

"Well, then try once more and let us see if you can sing again!" said Paula.

Then Moni sang his song and went on up the mountain with the goats, and his jubilant tones
rang down into the valley, so that there was no one in the whole Bath House who did not hear
it and many an one turned over in his bed and said: "The goat-boy has good weather once more."

All were glad to hear him sing again, for all had depended on the merry alarm, some in order
to get up, others to sleep a while longer.

When Moni, from the first summit, saw Paula still standing below in front of the house, he
stepped as far out as possible and sang down at the top of his voice:

  "And so blue is the sky there
  My joy can't be told."

The whole day long Moni shouted for joy, and all the goats caught his spirit and jumped and
sprang around as if it were a great festival. The sun shone cheerfully down out of the blue
sky, and after the great rain, all the little plants were so fresh, and the yellow and red
flowers so bright, it seemed to Moni as if he had never seen the mountains and the valley and
the whole world so beautiful before. He didn't let the little kid leave him the whole day;
he pulled up the best plants for it and fed it, and said over and over again:

"Maggerli, you dear Maggerli, you do not have to die. You are now mine and will come up to
the pasture with me as long as we live." And with resounding singing and yodeling Moni came
down again at evening and after he had led the black goat to her shed, he took the little kid
in his arms, for it was now coming home with him. Maggerli did not look as if it would rather
stay there, but pressed close to Moni and felt that it was under the best protection, for Moni
had for a long time treated it better and more kindly than its own mother.

But when Moni came near his grandmother's with Maggerli on his shoulders, she didn't know at
all what to make of it, and although Moni called from a distance:

"She belongs to me, Grandmother, she belongs to me!" she didn't understand for some time what
he meant. But Moni couldn't explain to her yet; he ran to the shed, and there right next to
Brownie, so that it wouldn't be afraid, he made Maggerli a fine, soft bed of fresh straw, and
laid it down, saying:

"There, Maggerli, now sleep well in your new home! You must always have this; every day I will
make you a new bed!"

Then Moni came back directly to his wondering grandmother, and while they sat together at their
supper, he told her the whole story from the very beginning about his three days so full of
trouble, and the happy ending to-day.

The grandmother listened very quietly and attentively and when he came to the end, she said
earnestly:

"Moni, you must remember what has happened to you now, as long as you live! While you were
having so great trouble with wrong-doing in order to help the little creature, the dear Lord
had already found a way to help it and make you happy as soon as you would do what was right
in His sight. If you had done right at once, and trusted in God, all would have gone well at
first. Now the dear Lord has helped you beyond all you deserved, so that you will not forget
it your whole life long."

"No, I will surely never forget it," said Moni, eagerly assenting, "and will always truly think,
the first thing: I must only do what is right before the dear Lord. He will take care of all
the rest."

But before Moni could lie down to sleep, he had to look into the shed once more, to see if
it were really possible that the little kid was lying out there and belonged to him.

Jorgli received the ten francs according to the agreement, but he was not allowed to escape
from the affair so easily as that. When he returned to the Bath House, he was brought to the
landlord who took the boy by the collar, gave him a good shaking, and said threateningly:

"Jorgli! Jorgli! Don't you try a second time to bring my whole house into bad repute! If anything
like this happens a single time again, you will come out of my house in a way that will not
please you! See, up there hangs a very sharp willow rod for such cases. Now go and think this
over."

