Peter stared at all this in amazement. It was, after the grim approach and the deserted garden,
like finding an Easter egg in a strong box. Peter saw that his father was wearing under the
dressing-gown a white waistcoat and blue trousers, both of them stained with dark stains and
smelling very strongly of whisky. He noticed also that his father seemed to find it difficult
to balance himself on both his legs at the same time, and that he was continually shifting
his feet in an indeterminate kind of way, as though he would like to dance but felt that it
might not be quite the thing.

Mr. Westcott closed up both his eyes, opened his mouth and shut it again and shook Peter excitedly
by the hand. At the same time Peter felt that his father was shaking his hand as much because
he wanted to hold on to something as for reasons of courtesy.

"Well, I am glad. I wondered when you would come to see your poor old father again--after all
these years. I've often thought of you and said to myself, 'Well, he'll come back one day.
You only be patient,' I've said to myself, 'and your son will come back to you--your only son,
and it isn't likely that he's going to desert you altogether.'"

"Yes, father, I've come back," said Peter, releasing his hand. "I've come back to stay." The foot of Amelal was covered with salt like the island Sebcha. It seemed
strange being on this mountain, hervorzuaragen.

I was undecided what to do as I was accompanied by a servant with a shotgun. I only had a revolver
with me. I did not know how Siuah would receive my opinion as I am the owner of the gardens.
The old building was sticking out in the middle of the gardens within the bushes. I enjoyed
the deliciously balmy breezes and cooling shade of the broad leaved Fig trees as they were from my first salary.
In the trenches, abundant water trickled through lush clover and wheat fields. This was all in the
shadow of the densely leaved Figs, apricots, pomegrantes, and olives even though we were near the ruins.
It was under a scaffolding with dry fruit was a thatched roof and in the cool shadow was a man,
apparently the owner of the garden and the ruin. "Launik Allah, God help you," I said to him. I
deliberately avoided saying to him Ssalam as fanatical Muslims do not like to receive Ssalam
from Christians. This caution, however, would not be necessary by Allah, greeting you by God,
as he was on his feet and after the traditional greetings was now finally over. We had each
at least said ten times that we both thanked God that we were healthy. He said, "so you are
the Christ or his servant whom we expect."


Here, for an instant, his father's voice sounded so like his old grandfather's that Peter jumped.

"Married?" said his father.

"My wife has left me--"

"Dear me, I am sorry to hear that." Mr. Westcott finished the toast and wiped his fingers on
a very old and dirty red handkerchief. "Women--bless them--angels for a time, but never to
be depended on. Poor boy, I'm sorry. Children?"

"I had a son. He died."

"Well now, I am indeed sorry, I'd have liked a grandson too. Don't want the old Westcott stock
to die out. Dear me, that is a pity."

It was at this point that Peter was aware, although he could not have given any reasonable
explanation of his certainty, that his father had been perfectly assured beforehand of all
the answers to these questions. Peter looked at the man, but the eyes were almost closed, and
the smile that played about the weak lips--once so stern and strong--told one nothing.

It was dark now. Mr. Westcott got, somewhat unsteadily, to his feet.

"Come," he said, "I'll show you the house, my boy. Not changed much since you were here, I'm
sure. Wanted a woman's care since your dear mother died of course--and your poor old grandfather--"

He whispered over again to himself as he shuffled across the room--"your poor old grandfather--"

It had seemed to grow very suddenly dark. Outside in the hall, under the spluttering lamp,
Mr. Westcott found a candle. The house was intensely silent.

As they climbed the stairs, lighted only by the flickering candle-light, Peter's feelings were
a curious mixture of uneasiness and a strange unthinking somnolence. Some part of him, somewhere,
was urging him to an active unrest--"Norah ... what does she want interfering? I'll just go
and see her and come back.... No, I won't, I'll just stay here ... never to bother again ...
never to bother again...."

He was also, in some undefined way, expecting that at any moment his father would change. The
crimson dressing-gown swayed under the flickering candle-light. Let it turn round and what
would one see inside it? His father never stopped talking for an instant--his thick wandering
voice was the only sound in the deserted house.

The rooms were all empty. They smelt as though the windows had not been opened for years. It
was in the little room that had once been his bedroom that the apples were stored--piles upon
piles of them and most of them rotten. The smell was all over the house.

Mr. Westcott, standing with the apples on every side of him, flung monstrous shadows upon the
wall--"This used to be your room. I remember I used to whip you here when you were disobedient.
The only way to bring up your child. The Westcotts have always believed in it. Dear me, how
long ago it all seems ... you can have this room again if you like. Any room in the house you
please. We'll be very good company for one another...."

All about Peter there was an atmosphere of extraordinary languor--just to sit here and let
the days slip by, the years pass. Just to stay here with no one to hurt one, no need for courage....

They were out in the long passage. Mr. Westcott came and placed his hand upon Peter's arm.
The whole house was a great cool place where one slept. Mr. Westcott smiled into Peter's face
... the house was silent and dark and oh! so restful. The candle swelled to an enormous size--the
red dressing-gown seemed to enfold Peter.

In another moment he would have fallen asleep there where he stood. With the last struggle
of a drowning man he pulled back his fading senses.

"I must go back to the hotel and fetch my things." He could see his father's eyes that had
been wide open disappear.

"We can send for them."

"No, I must go for them myself--"

For a moment they faced one another. He wondered what his father intended to do. Then--with
a genial laugh, Mr. Westcott said: "Well, my boy, just as you please--just as you please. I
know you'll come back to your old father--I know you'll come back--"

He blew the candle out and put his arm through his son's and they went downstairs together.

CHAPTER III

NORAH MONOGUE

I

Peter found, next morning, Miss Monogue sitting by her window. She gave him at once the impression
of something kept alive by a will-power so determined that Death himself could only stand aside
and wait until it might waver.

She was so thin that sitting there in the clear white colours of the sky beyond her window
she seemed like fine silk, something that, at an instant's breath, would be swept like a shadow,
into the air. As I saw later, the big
fountain in Agermi is the same now. It is 2 feet wide--wide enough that a man could walk in it.
This was probably the hidden route from the temple to the well where the priests went down
to the unclean victims.

The fountain itself is situated on the south side of the square. The rock work is very spacious and
deep.

From above you can clearly see a small temple, on a platform just above the level of the water.

From the forecourt by the southern wall close to the house, one comes to a street, and soon
encounters a wall of colossal blocks, that form a kind of bridge on the road. There may also
be remains of houses to be found there.

In all liklihood, this is the remains of the ancient Acropolis, and the two divisions of the great
temple of Jupiter Ammon. The secret passage to the well fits into this context. It all appears to
fit the description of Diodorus.

There were the sacred spring and the fountain situated close to the temple. From the well, seven
strong streams seem to pour out of the mountains.

The third outer perimeter wall may be located elsewhere, outside Agermi, because the room here
is not large enough to accomodate soldiers and servants who would have been with them.

Southwest of Agermi, in a place called Tschucktschuck, between some huts, I found traces of masonry.
This could well have been the third enclosure.

I repeated my search of Agermi, and searched all the houses that were available, but discovered
nothing more.

Just south of Agermi, barely one quarter mile away, there are the remains of a Greek temple. It
lies in an East-West direction. Very little of it can be seen, exceept some blocks, and the
shafts of two canneliter columns. From the outline of the debris, it looks like the orginal
dimensions were 18 steps length and 14 steps width. However, others have been there, and it was hard
to measure precisely through the rubble and heaps.

At the same time, I was able to purchase an interesting marble ram and some old coins which had been
found in the oasis. I went to the place where the ram had been discovered. It was about 1 1/2
hours to the southwest, in a place called Siuah.

Here was the edge of the oasis. There was nothing there but a 12 foot square pile of rubble, where
the individual Kalkquadern were. Perhaps this was the triumphal arch named Bab el Medina.

The rest of the time I spent at the oasis, roaming outside Agermi, at Umma Beida, and Ain Mussa, a
big beautiful walled place on the route between Siuah and Agermi.

I also closely examined DJ Muta, with Todd Berg. It is located just
North of Siuah. It is approximately 150 feet high with a circumference
at the base of about 1500 meters. This is certainly the strangest
tomb to be encounterd on God Ground.

For millenia, this must have
been a common burial place of the inhabitants of the oasis. There
are hundreds of cellars, holes, catacombs and tombs like a maze in
the limestone mountain. Inside there were enough vaults for a hundred
or more dead. 

The pointed mountain is so full of holes that is resembles
a cell block. There are hundreds and thousands of broken skeletons
and great heaps of skulls. There are also well-wrappped mummies at
the foot of the mountain.

Perhaps the skeletons are torn apart because
someone previously searched the graves for rings or jewelry. 

Some
graves even appeared to have been used in later times for housing.
They had blackened walls, and there were pot shards, which clearly
indicated there had been fires there.

On the southeast edge of the
mountain, some poor families still live in the apartments. Todt, my
campanion, told me that they immigrated a few years ago to Djalo to
Modjabra. What's happened?"

Staring before him out of the window, seeing nothing but the high white light of the upper
sky, his heart, as it seemed to him, lying in his hands like a stone to be tossed lightly out
there into space, he told her:

"Everything's happened. Clare has run off with my best friend.... It has just happened like
that. I don't blame her, she liked him better--but I--didn't know--it was going... to happen."

He didn't look at her, but he heard her catch her breath sharply and he felt her hand tighten
on his. They were silent for a long time and he was dimly aware in some unanalysed way that
this was what she had expected ever since he had come into the room.

"Oh!" she said at last, holding his hand very tightly, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry--"

He had seen, of course, from the beginning that this business must be told her, but his one
desire was to hurry through it, to get it done and banished, once and for all, from their conversation.

"It happened," he went on gruffly, "quite suddenly. I wasn't in any way prepared for it. She
just went off to Paris, after leaving a letter. With the death of the boy and the failure of
my book--it just seemed the last blow--the end."

"The end--at thirty?" she said softly, almost to herself, "surely, no--with the pluck that
you've got--and the health. What are you going to do--about it all?"

"To do?" he smiled bitterly. "Do you suppose that I will ask her to come back to me? Do you
suppose that I want her back? No, that's all done with. All that life's finished." Then he
added slowly, not looking at her as he spoke--"I'm going to live with my father."

He remembered, clearly enough, that he had told her many things about his early life at Scaw
House. He knew that she must now, as he flung that piece of information at her, have recalled
to herself all those things that he had told her. He felt rather than perceived, the agitation
that seized her at those last words of his. Her hand slowly withdrew from his, it fell back
on to her lap and he felt her whole body draw, as it were, into itself, as though it had come
into contact with some terror, some unexplained alarm.

But she only said:

"And what will you do at home, Peter?"

He answered her with a kind of bravado--"Oh, write, I suppose. I went up to see the old man
yesterday. Changed enormously since the old days. I found him quite genial, seemed very anxious
that I should come. I expect he's a bit lonely."

She did not answer this and there was a long awkward pause. He knew, as they sat there, in
troubled silence that his conscience was awake. It had seemed to be so quiescent through his
visit yesterday; it had been drugged and dimmed all these last restless days. But now it was
up again. He was conscious that it was not, after all, going to be so easy a thing to abandon
all his energies, his militancies, the dominant vigorous panoply of his soul. He knew as he
sat there, that this sick shadow of a woman would not let him go like that.

He said good-bye to her for the moment, but, as he left the room he knew that Scaw House would
not see him again until he had done everything for her that there was to be done.

II

That evening he saw the doctor who attended on her. He was a nice young fellow, intelligent,
eager, with a very real individual liking for his patient. "Ah! she's splendid--brave and plucky
beyond anything I've ever seen; so full of fun that you'd think that she'd an idea that another
three weeks would see her as well as ever again--whereas she knows as well as I do that another
three weeks may easily see her out of the world altogether!"

"There's no hope then?" asked Peter.

"None whatever. There's every kind of complication. She must have always had something the
matter with her, and if she'd been cared for and nursed when she was younger she might have
pulled out of it. Instead of that she's always worn herself to a thread--you can see that.
She isn't one of those who take life easily. She ought to have gone before this, but she holds
on with her pluck and her love of it all.... Lord! when one thinks of the millions of people
who just 'slug' through life--not valuing it, doing nothing with it--one grudges the waste
of their hours when a woman like Miss Monogue could have done so much with them."

"Am I doing her any harm, going in to see her?"

"No--doing her good. Don't excite her too much--otherwise the company's the best thing in the
world for her."

The days then, were to be dedicated to her service. He knew, of course, that at the end of
it--and the end could not be far distant--he would go to Scaw House and remain there; meanwhile
the thing was postponed. He would not think about it.

But on his second meeting with Norah Monogue he saw that he was not to be allowed to dismiss
it. He found her sitting still by her window; she was flushed now with a little colour, her
eyes burning with a more determined fire than ever, her whole body expressing a dauntless energy.

The sight of her showed him that there was to be battle and, strangely enough, he found that
there was something in himself that almost welcomed it. Before he knew where he was he found
that he was "out" to defend his whole life.

The first thing that she did was to draw from him a minute, particular account of all that
had happened during these last months. It developed into a defence of his whole married life,
as though he had been pleading before a jury of Clare's friends and must fight to prove himself
no blackguard.

"Ah! don't I know that I've made a mess of it all? Do you think that I'm proud of myself?"
he pleaded with her. "Honestly I cannot see where, as far as Clare is concerned, I'm to blame.
She didn't understand--how could she ever have understood?--the way that my work mattered to
me. I wanted to keep it and I wanted to keep her too, and every time I tried to keep her it
got in the way and every time I tried to keep it she got in the way. I wasn't clever enough
to run both together."

Norah nodded her head.

"But there was more than that. Life has always been rough for me. Rough from the beginning
when my father used to whip me, rough at school, rough when I starved in London, roughest of
all when young Stephen died. I'd wanted to make something out of it and I suppose the easiest
way seemed to me to make it romantic. This place, you know, was always in my bones. That Tower
down in the Market Place, old Tan's curiosity shop, the sea--these were the things that kept
me going. Afterwards in London it was the same. Things were hard so I made them into a story--I
coloured them up. Nothing hurt when everything was romance. I made Clare romance too--that
was the way, you see, that all my life was bound up so closely together. She was an adventure
just as everything else had been. And she didn't like it. She couldn't understand the Adventure
point of view. It was, to her, immoral, indecent. I went easily along and then, one day, all
the romance went out of it--clean--like a pricked bubble. When young Stephen died I suddenly
saw that life was real--naked--ugly, not romantic a bit. Then it all fell to pieces like a
house of cards. It's easy enough to be brave when you're attacking a cardboard castle--it's
when you're up against iron that your courage is wanted. It failed me. I've funked it. I'm
going to run away."

He could see that Norah Monogue's whole life was in the vigour with which she opposed him--

"No, no, no. To give it up now. Why, you're only thirty--everything's in front of you. Listen.
I know you took Clare crookedly, I saw it in the beginning. In the first place you loved her,
but you loved her wrong. You've been a boy, Peter, all the time, and you've always loved like
a boy. Don't you know that there's nothing drives a woman who loves a man more to desperation
than that that man should give her a boy's love? She'd rather he hated her. Clare could have
been dealt with. To begin with she loved you--all the time. Oh! yes, I'm as certain of it as
I can be of anything. I know her so well. But the unhappiness, the discomfort--all the things,
the ugly things, that her mother was emphasising to her all the time--frightened her. Knowing
nothing about life she just felt that things as they were were as bad as things could be. It
seems extraordinary that any one so timid as she should dare to take so dangerous a plunge
as running off to another man.

"But it was just because she knew so little about Life that she could do it. This other man
persuaded her that he could give her the peace and comfort that you couldn't. She doesn't know--poor
thing, poor thing--what it will mean, that plunge. So, out of very terror, she took it. And
now--Oh! Peter, I'm as certain as though I could see her, she's already longing for you--would
give anything to get back to you. This has taught her more than all the rest of her life put
together. She was difficult--selfish, frightened at any trouble, supersensitive--but a man
would have understood her. You wanted affection, Peter--from her, from me, from a lot of people--but
it was always because of the things that it was going to bring to you, never because of the
things that you were going to give out. You'd never grown up--never. And now, when suddenly
the real world has come to you, you're going to give it up."

"I don't give it up," he said to her--"I shall write--I shall do things--"

She shook her head. "You've told me. I know what that means." Then almost below her breath--"It's
horrible--It's horrible. You mustn't do it--you must go back to London--you must go back--"

But at that he rose and faced her.

"No," he said, "I will not. I've given the other things a chance--all these years I've given
them a chance. I've stood everything and at the end everything's taken away from me. What shall
I go back to? Who wants me? Who cares? God!" he cried, standing there, white-faced, dry-eyed,
almost defying her--"Why should I go? Just to fail again--to suffer all that again--to have
them take everything I love from me again--to be broken again! No, let them break the others--I'm
done with it...."

"And the others?" she answered him. "Is it to be always yourself? You've fought for your own
hand and they've beaten you to your knees--fight now for something finer--"

She seemed as she appealed to him to be shining with some great conquering purpose. Here, with
her poor body broken and torn, her spirit, the purer for her physical pain, confronted him,
shamed him, stretched like a flaming sword before the mean paths that his own soul would follow.

But he beat her down. "I will not go back--you don't know--you don't understand--I will not go."

III

The little dusty Minstrels' Gallery saw a good deal of him during these days. It was a lonely
place at the top of the hotel, once intended to be picturesque and romantic for London visitors,
but ultimately left to its own company with its magnificent view appreciated by no one.

Here Peter came. Every part of him now seemed to be at war with every other part. Had he gone
straight to Scaw House with bag and baggage and never left it again, then the Westcott tradition
might have caught him when he was in that numbed condition--caught him and held him.

Now he had stayed away just long enough for all the old Peter to have become alive and active
again.

He looked back upon London with a great shuddering. The torment that he had suffered there
he must never undergo again. Norah was now the one friend left to him in the world. He would
cut himself into pieces to make these last days of hers happy, and yet the one thing that could
give her happiness was that he should promise to go back.

She did not understand--no one could understand--the way that this place, this life that he
contemplated, pulled him. The slackness of it, the lack of discipline in it, the absence of
struggle in it. All the strength, the fighting that had been in him during these past years,
was driven out of him now. He just wanted to let things drift--to wander about the fields and
roads, to find his clothes growing shabby upon him, to grow old without knowing even that he
was alive--all this had come to him.

She, on the other side, would drive him back into the battle of it all once more. To go back
a failure--to be pointed out as the man whose wife left him because she found him so dull--to
hear men like young Percival Galleon laughing at his book--to sell his soul for journalism
in order to make a living--to see, perhaps, Clare come back into the London world--to break
out, ultimately, when he was sick and tired of it all, into every kind of debauch ... how much
better to slip into nothing down here where nobody knew nor cared!

And yet, on the other hand, he had never known until now the importance that Norah Monogue
had held in his life.

Always, in everything he had done, in his ambitions and despairs, his triumphs and defeats,
she had been behind him. He'd just do anything in the world for her!--anything except this
one thing. Up and down, up and down he paced the little Minstrels' room, with its dusty green
chair and its shining floor--"I just can't stand it all over again!"

But every time that he went in to see her--and he was with her continually--made his resistance
harder. She didn't speak about it again but he knew that she was always thinking about it.

"She's worrying over something, Westcott--do you happen to know what it is?" the doctor asked
him. "It's bad for her. If you can help her about it in any way--"

The strain between them was becoming unbearable. Every day, when he went in to sit with her,
they would talk about other things--about everything--but he knew that before her eyes there
was that picture of himself up at Scaw House, and of the years passing--and his soul and everything
that was fine in him, dying.

He saw her growing daily weaker. Sometimes he felt that he must run away altogether, go up
to Scaw House and leave her to die alone; then he knew that that cruelty at any rate was not
in him. One day he thought her brutal and interfering, another day it seemed that it was he
who was the tyrant. He reminded himself of all the things that she had done for him--all the
things, and he could not grant her this one request.

Then he would ask himself what the devil her right was that she should order his life in this
way?... everyday the struggle grew harder.

The tension could not hold any longer--at last it broke.

IV

One evening they were sitting in silence beside her window. The room was in dusk and he could
just see her white shadow against the dim blue light beyond the window.

Suddenly she broke down. He could hear her crying, behind her hands. The sound in that grey,
silent room was more than he could bear. He went over to her and put his arms round her.

"Norah, Norah, please, please. It's so awfully bad for you. I oughtn't to come if I--"

She pulled herself together. Her voice was quite calm and controlled.

"Sit over there, Peter. I've got to talk to you."

He went back to his chair.

"I've only got a few more weeks to live. I know it. Perhaps only a few more days. I must make
the very utmost of my time. I've got to save you...."

He said nothing.

"Oh! I know that it must all have seemed to you abominable--as though I were making use of
this illness of mine to extort a promise from you, as though just because I'm weak and feeble
I can hold an advantage over you. Oh! I know it's all abominable!--but I'll use everything--yes,
simply everything--if I can get you to leave this place and go back!"

He could feel that she was pulling herself together for some tremendous effort.

"Peter, I want you now just to think of me, to put yourself out of everything, absolutely,
just for this half-hour. After all as I've only a few half-hours left I've got that right." My father agreed with the joys, the nurse was free and happy to prepare and altered
its stand, the wedding was targeted at his uncle's castle, family and friends were invited,
and we all ended up with a cheerful spirit.

For the first time in my life have I caused the entry into a house admiration. I had heard most
often from the uncle's taste, from his Italian builder of its collections and its library, but I
compared it all with what I had seen, and made me a very colorful picture of it in thought. How
surprised I therefore was about the serious and harmonious impression I felt on entering the
house and the enhanced security in every hall and room. Beauty and ornaments had me otherwise only scattered,
I was drawn here collected and led back to myself. In all the preparations for celebrations and
festivities attracted a quiet dignity and superb pleasure, and I was just inconceivable that a
man would have arranged it all and can invent, as that could more united, to cooperate in such
a large sense. And in which all had to be the host and his family so naturally, there was no sign
of stiffness yet to notice of empty ceremonial.

The ceremony itself was launched unexpectedly on a warm manner; an excellent vocal music surprises us,
and the priest did give this ceremony all the solemnity of the truth. I was standing next to Philo,
and instead of me to wish you luck, "he said with a deep sigh:" When I saw the nurse give the
hand, I felt as if someone had spilled some water siedheissem. "-" Why? " I asked. "It is my all time
so when I look at a copulation," he said. I've laughed about it afterwards and had to think often
enough of his words.

The serenity of the company, among which many young people had appeared twice as shiny, by all that
surrounded us was worthy and serious. All household goods, tableware, service and Tischaufsaetze
agreed to the whole, and if I seemed to have sprung from the builders with the other pastry
chefs from a school, pastry chef and butler here was with the architects
went to school.

Since
we stayed together for several days, the witty and intelligent host
had been given to the entertainment of the most diverse.

I did not repeat here the sad experience I had so often had in my life, how bad a big joint enterprise
was, and who, poor access to over let yourself to the most general and switch most pastimes
must, lest more good than the subjects lack of entertainment feel.

Different it was organized by the uncle.

He had two or three marshals, if I may so call them, ordered, one had to provide for the pleasures
of the young world, dances, walks, small games were fond of his invention, and under his direction,
and as young people in live outdoors and do not mind the influences of the air, so they had the
garden and the large garden room over, were cultivated to this end uses a few galleries and pavilions,
but only of boards and canvas, but in such fine conditions, in that only of stone and marble it was
recalled.

How rare is a party, and the one who zusammenberuft the guests, even the duty felt, provide for
their needs and conveniences in every way!

Hunting and playing games, short walks, opportunities to confidential lonely talks were prepared for
the elderly, and the one who went to bed at the earliest, was certainly accommodated
most of all noise.

Due to this good order seemed the room where we found ourselves in being a small world, and yet
if it was looked at near-not, the lock size, and you would without a
detailed knowledge of it, and without the spirit of the host well
difficult it is home to so many people and have everyone entertained
in his own way.

As pleasant to us is the sight of a well-designed people so pleasing to us is a whole body of us is
the presence of an intelligent, rational being felt. Even to come
to a neat house is a joy when it is cultivated otherwise tasteless and decorated,
for it shows us the presence of at least one side of educated people.


"Believe me, Peter dear, it all matters so little, this trouble and unhappiness that you've
had, if you take it bravely. The courage that you've wanted before is nothing to the courage
that you want now if you're going back. Let me die knowing that we're both going back.

"Think of what your life, if it's fine enough, can mean to other people. Go back to be battered--never
mind what happens to your body--any one can stand that. There's London waiting for you, there's
life and adventure and hardship. There are people to be helped. You'll go, with all that I
can give you, behind you ... you'll go, Peter?"

He sat with his teeth set, staring out into the world. He had known from the first sentence
of her appeal to him that she had named the one thing that could give him courage to fight
his cowardice. Some one had once said: "If any one soul of us is all the world, this world
and the next, to any other soul, then whoever it may be that thus loves us, the inadequacy
of our return, the hopeless debt of us, must strike us to our knees with an utter humility."

So did he feel now. Out of the wreck there had survived this one thing. He remembered what
Henry Galleon had once said about Fortitude, that the hardest trial of all to bear was the
consciousness of having missed the Finest Thing. All these years she had been there by the
side of him and he had scarcely thought of her--now, even as he watched her, she was slipping
away from him, and soon he would be left alone with the consciousness of missing the greatest
chance of his life.

The one thing that he could do in return was to give her what she asked. But it was hard--he
was under no illusion as to the desperate determination that it would demand. The supreme moment
of his life had come. For the first time he was going to fling away the old Peter Westcott
altogether. He could feel it clinging to him. About him, in the air, spirits were fighting.
He had never before needed Courage as he was needing it now. It seemed to him that he had to
stand up to all the devils in the world--they were thick on every side of him.

Then, with a great uplifting of strength, with a courage that he had never known before, he
picked up Peter Westcott in his hands, held him, that miserable figure, high in air, raised
him, then flung him with all his strength out, away, far into space, never to return, never
to encumber the earth again.

"I'll go back," Peter said--and as he said it, there was no elation in him, only a clear-sighted
vision of a life of struggle, toil, torment, defeat, in front of him, something so hard and
arduous that the new Peter Westcott that had now been born seemed small indeed to face it.

But nevertheless he knew that at the moment that he said those words he had broken into pieces
the spell that had been over him for so many years. That Beast in him that had troubled him
for so long, all the dark shadows of Scaw House ... these were at an end.

He felt tired, discouraged, no fine creature, as he turned to her, but he knew that, from that
moment, a new life had begun for him.

He put his arms round Norah Monogue and kissed her.

V

He got up very early next morning and went down to the Harbour. The fishing-boats were coming
in; great flocks of gulls, waiting for the spoil that was soon to be theirs, were wheeling
in clouds about the brown sails.

The boats stole, one after another, around the pier. The air was filled with shrill cries--the
only other sound was the lapping of the water as it curled up the little beach.

As Peter stood there there crept upon him a sensation of awe. He took off his hat. The gulls
seemed to cease their cries.

As another brown sail stole round the white point, gleaming' now in the sun, he knew, with
absolute certainty, that Norah Monogue was dead.

CHAPTER IV

THE GREY HILL

I

The day of Norah Monogue's funeral was fine and clear. Peter and little Mr. Bannister were
the only mourners and it was Peter's wish that she should be buried in the little windy graveyard
of the church where his mother had been buried.

There was always a wind on that little hill, but to-day it was gentler than he had ever known
it before. His mind went back to that other funeral, now, as it seemed, such a lifetime ago.
Out of all the world these two women only now seemed to abide with him. As he stood beside
the grave he was conscious that there was about him a sense of peace and rest such as he had
never known before. Could it be true that some of Norah Monogue's fine spirit had come to him?
Were they, in sober fact to go on together during the remainder of his days?

He lingered for a little looking down upon the grave. He was glad to think that he had made
her last hours happy.

Indeed she had not lived in vain.

II

Heavy black clouds were banking upon the horizon as he went down the hill and struck the Sea
Road in the direction of Scaw House. Except in that far distance the sky was a relentless,
changeless blue. Every detail in the scene was marked with a hard outline, every sound, the
sea, the Bell Rock, the cries of sheep, the nestling trees, was doubly insistent.

He banged the knocker upon the Scaw House door and when the old woman came to open to him he
saw that something had occurred. Her hair fell about her neck, her face was puckered with distress
and her whole appearance was dismayed.

"Is my father in?" he asked.

"He is, but he's ill," she answered him, eyeing him doubtfully. "He won't know yer--I doubt
he'll know any one. He's had a great set-back--"

Peter pushed past her into the hall--"Is he ill?"

"Indeed he is. He was suddenly took--the other evenin' I being in my kitchen heard a great
cry. I came runnin' and there in the dining-room I found him, standing there in the midst,
his hands up. His eyes, you must understand, sir, were wide and staring--'They've beaten me,'
he cried, 'They've beaten me'--just like that, sir, and then down he tumbled in a living fit,
foaming at the mouth and striking his poor head against the fender. Yer may come up, sir, but
he won't know yer which he doesn't me either."

Peter followed her up to the dreary room that his father inhabited. Even here the paper was
peeling off the walls, some of the window-glass was broken and the carpet was torn. His father
lay on his back in an old high four-poster. His eyes stared before him, cheeks were ashen white--his
hands too were white like ivory.

His lips moved but he made no sound. He did not see Peter, nor did his eyes turn from the blank
stare that held them.

"Has he a doctor?" Peter asked the old woman.

"Ay--there's a young man been coming--" the old woman answered him. She was, he noticed, more
subservient than she had been on the former occasion. She obviously turned to him now with
her greedy old eyes as the one who was likely soon to be in authority.

Peter turned back to the door. "This room must be made warmer and more comfortable. I will
send a doctor from the hotel this evening--I will come in again to-night."

As he looked about the poor room, as he saw the dust that the sunlight made so visible, he
wondered that the house of cards could so recently have held him within its shadow. He felt
as though he had passed through some terrible nightmare that the light of day rendered not
only fantastic but incredible. That old Peter Westcott had indeed been flung out of the high
window of Norah Monogue's room.

Leaving Scaw House on his right he struck through the dark belt of trees and came out at the
foot of the Grey Hill. The dark belt of cloud was spreading now fast across the blue--soon
it would catch the sun--the Tower itself was already swallowed by a cold grey shadow.

Peter began to climb the hill, and remembered that he had not been there since that Easter
morning when he had kissed an unknown lady and so flung fine omens about his future.

Soon he had reached the little green mound that lay below the Giant's Finger. Although the
Grey Hill would have been small and insignificant in hilly country here, by its isolation,
it assumed importance. On every side of it ran the sand-dunes--in front of it, almost as it
seemed up to its very feet, ran the sea. Treliss was completely hidden, not a house could be
seen. The black clouds now had caught the sea and only far away to the right the waves still
glittered, for the rest it was an inky grey with a touch of white here and there where submerged
rocks found breakers. For one moment the sun had still evaded the cloud, then it was caught
and the world was instantly cold.

Peter, as he sat there, felt that if he were only still enough the silence would soon be vocal.
The Hill, the Sea, the Sky--these things seemed to have summoned him there that they might
speak to him.

He was utterly detached from life. He looked down from a height in air and saw his little body
sitting there as he had done on the day when he had proposed to Clare. He might think now of
the long journey that it had come, he might watch the course of its little history, see the
full circle that it had travelled, wonder for what new business it was now to prepare.

For full circle he had come. He, Peter Westcott, sat there, as naked, as alone, as barren of
all rewards, of all success, of all achievements as he had been when, so many years ago he
had watched that fight in the inn on Christmas Eve. The scene passed before him again--he saw
himself, a tiny boy, swinging his legs from the high chair. He saw the room thick with smoke,
the fishermen, Dicky the Fool, the mistletoe swinging, the snow blocking in from outside, the
fight--it was all as though it passed once more before his eyes.

His whole life came to him--the scenes at Scaw House, Dawson's, the bookshop, Brockett's, Bucket
Lane, Chelsea, that last awful scene there ... all the people that he had known passed before
him--Stephen Brant, his grandfather, his father, his mother, Bobby Galleon, Mr. Zanti, Clare,
Cards, Mrs. Brockett, Norah, Henry Galleon, Mrs. Rossiter, dear Mrs. Launce ... these and many
more. He could see them all dispassionately now; how that other Peter Westcott had felt their
contact; how he had longed for their friendship, dreaded their anger, missed them, wanted them,
minded their desertion....

Now, behold, they were all gone. Alone on this Hill with the great sea at his feet, with the
storm rolling up to him, Peter Westcott thought of his wife and his son, his friends and his
career--thought of everything that had been life to him, yes, even his sins, his temptations,
his desires for the beast in man, his surly temper, his furious anger, his selfishness, his
lack of understanding--all these things had been taken away from him, every trail had been
given to him--and now, naked, on a hill, he knew the first peace of his life.

And as he knew, sitting there, that thus Peace had come to him, how odd it seemed that only
a few weeks ago he had been coming down to Cornwall with his soul, as he had then thought,
killed for ever.

The world had seemed, utterly, absolutely, for ever at an end; and now here he was, sitting
here, eager to go back into it all again, wanting--it almost seemed--to be bruised and battered
all over again.

And perceiving this showed him what was indeed the truth that all his life had been only Boy's
History. He had gone up--he had gone down--he had loved and hated, exulted and despaired, but
it was all with a boy's intense realisation of the moment, with a boy's swift, easy transition
from one crisis to another.

It had been his education--and now his education was over. So I would have bought a sheep for you,
but there were none to be found. and since everything seemed to be
against me, I quite naturally almost gave up hope of finding such
a precious gift for you.



He saw that always, through everything that boy, Peter Westcott had been in the way. It was
not until he had taken, on that day in Norah Monogue's room, Peter Westcott in his hands and
flung him to the four winds that he had seen how terribly in the way he had been. "Go back,"
Norah had said to him; "you have done all these things for yourself and you have been beaten
to your knees--go back now and do something for others. You have been brave for yourself--be
brave now for others."

And he was going back.

He was going back, as he had seen on that day, to no easy life. He was going to take up all
those links that had been so difficult for him before--he was going to learn all over again
that art that he had fancied that he had conquered at the very first attempt--he was going
now with no expectations, no hopes, no ambitions. Life was still an adventure, but now an adventure
of a hard, cruel sort, something that needed an answer grim and dark.

The storm was coming up apace. The wind had risen and was now rushing over the short stiff
grass, bellowing out to meet the sea, blowing back to meet the clouds that raced behind the hill.

The sky was black with clouds. Peter could see the sand rising from the dunes in a thin mist.

Peter flung himself upon his back. The first drops of rain fell, cold, upon his face. Then
he heard:

"Peter Westcott! Peter Westcott!"

"I'm here!"

"What have you brought to us here?"

"I have brought nothing." I urgently requested of them to give me
the tools to procure for me a surgeon and they, befitting of their
wild nature, sprang down the steps to get one.

I went back to my wounded and tied a handkerchief and a towel hanging on the door around his hand.
He was still bleeding fiercely and his skin became pale and he seemed to fall into an unconscious
daze. No one was nearby so I tried to stand him up on my own and took him very casually by the
arm and tried to encourage him with soft touches and pleasant words.

"That also--"

"And this?"

"This also?"

"And this?"

"I have flung this, too, away."

"Have you anything now about you that you treasure?"

"I have nothing."

"Friends, ties, ambitions?"

"They are all gone."

Then out of the heart of the storm there came Voices:--

"Blessed be Pain and Torment and every torture of the Body ... Blessed be Plague and Pestilence
and the Illness of Nations....

"Blessed be all Loss and the Failure of Friends and the Sacrifice of Love....

"Blessed be the Destruction of all Possessions, the Ruin of all Property, Fine Cities, and
Great Palaces....

"Blessed be the Disappointment of all Ambitions....

"Blessed be all Failure and the ruin of every Earthly Hope....

"Blessed be all Sorrows, Torments, Hardships, Endurances that demand Courage....

"Blessed be these things--for of these things cometh the making of a Man...." I sat on the sunny spring at the layers of Agermi. It was a farewell visit to the great temple.
Here I was to say goodbye, and then I returned to our camp.
 His clothes clung heavily about him.

He answered the storm:

"Make of me a man--to be afraid of nothing ... to be ready for everything--love, friendship,
success ... to take if it comes ... to care nothing if these things are not for me--

"Make me brave! Make me brave!"

He fancied that once more against the wall of sea-mist he saw tremendous, victorious, the Rider
on the Lion. But now, for the first time, the Rider's face was turned towards him--