I afterwards made the acquaintance of a young fellow, a college graduate who had been unable
to secure a position to his liking and was anxious to return to the States. After a few days
of good fellowship, and finding him of the right material, I made my plans known to him. He
at once fell in with them, and a week later we embarked on our perilous journey. We started
at full moon drifting with a comparatively strong current using paddles to guide our roughly
constructed craft. We made nightly rides of about fifty miles, and at dawn would land on one
of the small islands of the river, conceal ourselves and the boat in the tall grass from which
we were able to see all that passed by trail and bluffs, and not be seen ourselves. Our greatest
danger was in being discovered by the Indians on the high bluffs, or a visit from them to the
island we occupied. The first scare we had was when a party of a dozen or more rode to the
bank of the river for the purpose, as we supposed, of crossing. They seemed, however, undecided
as to their course, but finally urged their ponies down the bank and into the river. To describe
our feelings would be impossible. Just then, to us, a minute seemed an hour. Cold beads of
perspiration stood out on both, not exactly from fear, but a sort of yearning to be elsewhere;
and I wondered, after all that I had passed through, if I was to be cut down on my homeward
journey by those fiendish red devils. "Saved!" whispered my friend, "they are leaving the river."
And sure enough those little prairie ponies were climbing the bank on a dead run for the bluffs.

The last night of that eventful ride lasted long until after the sun was up. The large Concord
coach filled with passengers passed close to the river bank a short time before, and from the
driver we learned we were ten miles from Julesburg. We proceeded, keeping close to the bank,
and with field glass continually swept the valley and bluffs in every direction. We were facing
a mild and depressing wind. All of a sudden dismal sounds reached our ears, and as the noiseless
current of the river rounded the projecting points in its banks, it bore our staunch old craft
to a place of safety, or ourselves to a cruel death, we knew not which. The sounds became more
distinct until both of us were satisfied that the Indians had captured the overland coach with
its load of human freight. As we rounded the next bend the river took a straight course, but
there was no island in sight.

"No island in sight," said my friend. "Where can we go?" And turning around I discovered he
was as white as a sheet. As for myself, I was hanging to the edge of the bank trying hard to
collect my wits and recover from a fainting spell. We finally managed to get the boat back
and around the bend where we lay concealed for some time, suffering the torture of Hades. I
finally crawled to the top of the bank and with field glass surveyed the locality in every
direction. No life was visible, still the unearthly noise kept up, and the feeling of those
two lone travelers would be impossible to describe. The thought at last came to me that we
must be somewhere in the vicinity of the old California Crossing. I crawled back to the boat
and told my companion to go ahead, while I continually used the field glass. After fifteen
minutes, I discovered a white speck in the eastern horizon. We were soon over our fright, and
with light hearts were sailing over the rippling waters of the old Platte feeling assured that
we would soon reach a place of safety, as far as the Indians were concerned.

On arriving at the crossing, which it proved to be, we found one of those large white covered
prairie schooners stalled in the middle of the stream, and fifty Greasers, as the Mexican drivers
were called, and as many yoke of oxen trying to haul it out.

FAREWELL TO THE PLAINS

We sailed merrily along and at two P. M. reached Julesburg, the then terminus of the Union
Pacific railroad and overland shipping point for all territory west, north and south. The Union
Pacific railroad, when under construction, made a terminus every two or three hundred miles.
The houses were built in sections, so they were easily taken apart, loaded on flat freight
cars, and taken to the next terminus completely deserting the former town, Julesburg was rightfully
named "The Portable Hell of the Plains." My finer feelings cannot, if words could, attempt
a description. Suffice to say that during the three days we were there four men and women were
buried in their street costumes. The fourth day we boarded a Union Pacific train and were whirled
to its Eastern terminus, Omaha, thence home, arriving safely after an absence of four years.

The habits formed during those western years were hard to change, and the fight of my life
to live a semblance of the proper life, required a will power as irresistible as the crystal
quartz taken from the lofty snow capped mountain sides, taking tons of weight to crush it,
that the good might be separated from the worthless.

       *       *       *       *       *

Original spelling has been preserved. Some illustrations have been moved to avoid breaking
up the text. The following typos have been corrected:

Contents: Markmanship changed to Marksmanship:
  (Chapter V--A Proof of Markmanship)

Page 12: Holliday changed to Holiday:
  (We at once called at the Ben Holliday Stage Office).

Page 104: ther changed to their:
  (had ther tribal laws and customs).

Page 106: added closing quotes:
  (I'll get out of this one in some way.)

Page 128: added comma after Charlie:
  ("At least, Charlie" said Patrick, "Let's give them a decent).

Page 137: added comma after second Billie:
  (loudly, "Billie, Billie" and with outstretched hand walked).