The next moment Sir Miles's thoughts had gone back to the recent episode. So absorbed was he
in his musings, that when the King presently handed him the paper which he had been writing,
he received it and pocketed it without being conscious of the act. "How marvellous strange
she acted," he muttered.  "I think she knew me--and I think she did NOT know me. These opinions
do conflict, I perceive it plainly; I cannot reconcile them, neither can I, by argument, dismiss
either of the two, or even persuade one to outweigh the other.  The matter standeth simply
thus: she MUST have known my face, my figure, my voice, for how could it be otherwise?  Yet
she SAID she knew me not, and that is proof perfect, for she cannot lie.  But stop--I think
I begin to see. Peradventure he hath influenced her, commanded her, compelled her to lie. 
That is the solution.  The riddle is unriddled.  She seemed dead with fear--yes, she was under
his compulsion.  I will seek her; I will find her; now that he is away, she will speak her
true mind.  She will remember the old times when we were little playfellows together, and this
will soften her heart, and she will no more betray me, but will confess me.  There is no treacherous
blood in her--no, she was always honest and true.  She has loved me, in those old days--this
is my security; for whom one has loved, one cannot betray."

He stepped eagerly toward the door; at that moment it opened, and the Lady Edith entered. 
She was very pale, but she walked with a firm step, and her carriage was full of grace and
gentle dignity. Her face was as sad as before.

Miles sprang forward, with a happy confidence, to meet her, but she checked him with a hardly
perceptible gesture, and he stopped where he was.  She seated herself, and asked him to do
likewise. Thus simply did she take the sense of old comradeship out of him, and transform him
into a stranger and a guest.  The surprise of it, the bewildering unexpectedness of it, made
him begin to question, for a moment, if he WAS the person he was pretending to be, after all.
The Lady Edith said--

"Sir, I have come to warn you.  The mad cannot be persuaded out of their delusions, perchance;
but doubtless they may be persuaded to avoid perils.  I think this dream of yours hath the
seeming of honest truth to you, and therefore is not criminal--but do not tarry here with it;
for here it is dangerous."  She looked steadily into Miles's face a moment, then added, impressively,
"It is the more dangerous for that you ARE much like what our lost lad must have grown to be
if he had lived."

"Heavens, madam, but I AM he!"

"I truly think you think it, sir.  I question not your honesty in that; I but warn you, that
is all.  My husband is master in this region; his power hath hardly any limit; the people prosper
or starve, as he wills. If you resembled not the man whom you profess to be, my husband might
bid you pleasure yourself with your dream in peace; but trust me, I know him well; I know what
he will do; he will say to all that you are but a mad impostor, and straightway all will echo
him."  She bent upon Miles that same steady look once more, and added:  "If you WERE Miles
Hendon, and he knew it and all the region knew it--consider what I am saying, weigh it well--you
would stand in the same peril, your punishment would be no less sure; he would deny you and
denounce you, and none would be bold enough to give you countenance."

"Most truly I believe it," said Miles, bitterly.  "The power that can command one life-long
friend to betray and disown another, and be obeyed, may well look to be obeyed in quarters
where bread and life are on the stake and no cobweb ties of loyalty and honour are concerned."

A faint tinge appeared for a moment in the lady's cheek, and she dropped her eyes to the floor;
but her voice betrayed no emotion when she proceeded--

