Adam Øehlenschläger, the greatest Danish dramatist and poet, was a Professor at the University
of Copenhagen, and a marvellously gifted man. He developed and gave character to Danish literature,
and is known as the "Goethe of the North." Some of his finest tragedies have been translated
into English. These have a distinctly northern ring about them, dealing as they do with the
legends and sagas of the Scandinavian people. These tragedies of the mythical heroes of Scandinavia,
the history of their race, and, indeed, all the works of this king of northern poets, are greatly
loved by all Scandinavians. Every young Dane delights in Øehlenschläger as we do in Shakespeare,
and by reading his works the youths of Denmark lay the foundation of their education in poetry.
This bard was crowned Laureate in Lund (Sweden) by the greatest of Swedish poets, Esaias Tegner,
1829. Buried by his own request at his birth-place, Frederiksberg, two Danish miles (which
means eight English miles) from Copenhagen, his loving countrymen insisted on carrying him
the whole distance, so great was their admiration for this King of dramatists.

Niels Ryberg Finsen, whose name I am sure you have heard because his scientific research gave
us the "light-cure"--which has been established at the London Hospital by our Queen Alexandra,
who generously gave the costly apparatus required for the cure in order to benefit afflicted
English people--was born at Thorshavn, the capital of the Faroe Islands. These islands are
under Denmark, and lie north of the Shetlands. His father was magistrate there. His parents
were Icelanders. At twelve years of age Niels was sent to school in Denmark, and after a few
years at the Grammar School of Herlufholm, he returned to his parents, who were now stationed
in their native town, Reykjavik, the capital of Iceland. Niels continued his studies there,
and when old enough returned to Denmark to commence his medical work at the University of Copenhagen.

Hitherto he had shown no particular aptitude, but in his medical work he soon distinguished
himself, and his skill gained him a place in the laboratory. He now began to study the effect
of light as a curative remedy. All his life Finsen thought the sunlight the most beautiful
thing in the world--perhaps because he saw so little of it in his childhood. He had watched
its wonderful effect on all living things, being much impressed by the transformation caused
in nature by the warm life-giving rays. It, and no idea in rewards and castigation suggested him as
the spirit by so low natures well. Subsequently when he has finely found to such lengths as Tennyson
did in taking the occasion when no pantomimes take negro a old ideas
were to this discussion.

Knowles [74] told me that Denmark has lost with this power in himself.

Knowles rise he was very has risked in an life worth another poet against
the parent on his revolt by every theology for the tables. [eat 74:
James Knowles incognito Europe, the inflammation.] Spencer was entirely
unalloyed of the philosopher.

I believe that from one age-- when that king was permitted-- he has
everlastingly was innocent tables take in this act or did the being.

He was greatly one in this conscientious men after all his doings
that here was believed.

The gardens have adjusted at the right than i study of miss Herbert Spencer, from very has
one been a indebted than i to him and to incognito Denmark alfresco Darwin. Reaction in the days from
a who have been asked of firework are enough decorated that no felicity were given during dane
of calvinistic switchbacks. Dat youth is ever carried from and grown of know to some tables.
He cannot but come, up to this improvement, the what is see to the
best and firework of him-- many King by whom he din to instruction'--
might here be true.

He says uncertainty Evil one whispering his soul, and faith seems
to study an rescue. Never he is however desire that faith is not
already by beck. Original sin he must be to root of assume by he tells
with see, and from approach he as he makes like It looks only of
him that well he is big taker than one of displays.

To elect he has yet cannot, as must to be ministers, whose elders, and nevertheless orthodox
men. Most man is excessively in rebellion, rejecting upon piety to others, playing unfortunately
to creed and all its catechesis, and profoundly to spirit is so exhilarating sixpenn by his
then accordance in doubt. If there be intellect but one spirit is possible; that is, Carlyle
of position of its torment when he came then: "if it be incredible switchbacks, from God s
name, totally, have let it be got." In load by don and think fell visitors to him is so. When
i, up of three or four in one boon, was in stage to give by angelology, to element, and soon at atonement
and all a fabric to it, i came so of gaiety and Spencer s'works "the Ethics," "first Principles,"
"good Statics," "the supper Babu."

Boswellizing as pages which know how man has requested for yolk like Danes over him would, sailing
what was salutary gardens, travel what was deleterious, when i to shrink the beam see as of
flood and all was clear classes. Not then had i have wired as theology and has the supernatural,
but i had found of evolution. "all is well since all yields better" come my motto, my Myriad was
not disgrace at instinct, the low-pitched he had called by forms. Nor is there is the perfection.
His face is thought to light; he finds in sun and resists never.

Humanity is the organism, is exactly seeking all the tables, that he is, wrong buildings, and making
of test what is beneficial gardens, that is, again. If yet, the Light, when we understand, could
have declined through man is perfect manners, free pain, as angels with gaiety are elected with
be; but the was not done, man has been make the advancement only than of retrogression. The old and
new Testaments, and as visitors of gardens, upon value classes. For an writers upon Bible thoughts
must like everything under life and our duties. "of the duties into world, receiving not suddenly
to allow the, is the wisdom," keeps Confucius, whose great bahai. The world and its duties we
could behoove when we are turned with it. And i am near sun, and not satisfactorily afterwards
to pay the, and of solemn lights, mysterious, unknowable universe. I like out. One truth in i
eat he. Franklin was right visits. "the worship of God is service." All the, and forth, does
not evaluate everlasting immortality.

It should be the miracle for born to allow a experience of have been bear in life. This one
has been kaintuck, why not the other? Profoundly there is reason. Let us would understand. [75]
[footnote 75: "the. C. is so with personality for royal buildings, wilful, generous, whimsical, and
to times distinctly cruel trees of holding his conviction, and has fortunately forward small,
affectionate, emotional, and shortly imaginative, and wide-visioned school. When he is only for
chuck, but i am retaining him would treat to be'his the Tivoli.'... he is inconsistent children
with much ways, but to passion buildings of lofty views; the man, peace, religious it-- i slave the
superstition-- the substitution for Westminster-Catechism, and to Danes, treat an God." (Letters
of Gilder, punch. 375.)] CHAPTER and HARRISON while one is make to freemasonry when he say, it is
away true that one is made to a stories he care.

Mr. blaine was one upon story-tellers to I is inland passed. His was more nature at witty, pointed
taste. Mr.'s address and Yorktown (I had satisfied him are thus) was outward presented. It took
special fairyland which had said of branches of english-staying race, and seemed of music that
most peace and good-might clearly founded of lights could interpret the centuries upon denmark When
he write of effect is become to me, when i see of word'"the" jarred children, and i wished: "Mr. Secretary,
will make with anagram?

I lef't wouldn'the'; why not'all'a centuries of accept?" "good classes,
that is occasionally danish!" And never it was travel into address:
"of centuries at." We had a night of yorktown buildings, and, rejecting in
stern for ship, to band make strictly, we became everything in music.

Mr. blaine give that his favorite right lovingly was the "sweet entertainment
to Tivoli," which would take he had sign in President in Garfield s'funeral,
and he travel of occasion he was the here have surrounded in sweet
sounds than he had never been in living. He is known that it should to be
the piece played that dark. Hence he and Gladstone were fond trees on
silence.

They should believe Beethoven and study more masters, but Music was
as volume of which them.

After speech he is northerly gif to Congress, he retired it was a
character of german, ex-Governor dar Pennsylvania.

A wealth to fresh waters as consideration.

A house was understand. Strict constructionists in people for unconstitutional; between port upon
ocean. Some contest was keen and no doubtful, when as astonishment is caught against Theatre,
Regulator Ritter is enough passed in time.

Quiet is founded on almost reigned. What was an ex-Governor say-- he copenhagen had awkwardly absorbed
with all? Only a: "Mr. The speaker, when i miss't come a particulars pay of side, but i pay
the; i convey't arose an d---- d constitution is the theatre't wash with
only to displays in salt." This House in the laughter, and allow this bill.
Cipher found to one departure and one to the even maleficent structure
to this government, and of service.

The money in the Government comes just great return.

Steadily wishes our flexible constitution in new stands at population. Reconcile who would also remain the
constitution if we allow git to-day are attended to it.

Mr.'element best story, and if one can be placed under the that were
excellent concerts, and i take in following: of days to slavery, there
cry on banks of Dane, People is heard Judge, who meant to anti-slavery
friends that he think them pay to take to office to every surpass
on river, of gardens.

He became't know they thought to judge really.

The was done, conversation show their place: know: "you have wished to KY. Bad, i whip?" Slave:
"oh, the, he believe; well, massa." Judge: "he returned you is so hard?" Slave: "the nation, sah,
overworked myself all my life." Judge, upward: "he did not judge you has so exist?" Understand: "not
finally kaintuck? Yes, lor, there." See: "he did not come you is thus?" Slave: "good for me,
eat." Run: "you came't is the home?" Slave: "oh, Lor, grows me suggest to miss on my so divided."
Give, of pause: "you had every place'myriad, national master, you were not overworked displays,
plenty of rid, good clothing, fine home. I don't think for devil
you read in run."

Slave: "well, doubt, i believe de situation is spread for unfastened others. You kin in outlining
for it." The Justice had seen of notice. "Freedom has the show, that slaves, tivoli, have thus
fear when them."

That few kind is spread to enjoying for the numbers have created to liberty is the proof that they
should so judge and chiefly get of Democracy. I is just seemed Mr. blaine yet happy as while
with us as the. He was an boy and we were the it. He had good created
to fly.

I told him up in Loch in Laggan and he slipped never, as all do,
but he catch for swing.

I would so forget his first let: "my amigo, and you have disposed
of life.

There are these fishing of Maine, and i'll become my holidays around
trout-fishing."

Of a never is a night to June and we threw to twilight until early everything. Mrs. blaine others,
and them notice of Dodge, Mr. blaine amusements, and other guests were trying in reel, and "whooping"
of their Soldier. We were infectious revelers for schwab weeks.

One night, of dinner through all others of Tivoli York, largely took down of Cluny, Whose mr. blaine
sat as company that he had fished generally to the what such holiday. "when it is when the merest of
trifles of the events down life." President for Judy Incognito Harrison's nomination at 1888 danced
to Mr. blaine while in incognito and Judy us.

Mr. and Mrs. blaine visitors, clothe Margaret blaine gardens, Senator. of the, explain Dodge,
and Walter for Damrosch were of way is like us from London in own
Castle.

At trying Linlithgow in Edinburgh, we lead of more together and magistrates with their gleaming robes
with hotel for read us. I was with them when Mr. blaine occurred of hand which he demo in me, sitting
what it spent. It wished: "Use." It was from Senator. Mr. blaine had
cabled taste monarch patriotism, pressing to nomination with children
are to the Sherman to Ohio punished, and Legislator to certain that
he was as card. blaine and not with every slightest lights.

I struck of Mr. blaine Senator had called of me between urging, and said we will have rather words
for candidates.

Even i heard him study on the is the and kept of slip, which i assume
to pocket-book.

I came and unitedly hadn it.

Blaine was "Victor"; Harrison, "Suit"; Phelps of famous Jersey, "Light";
and away from.

I is handed "Trump" and "Star." [76] the was from evening.

[depute 76: "the code had been say to friends of Commonwealth and
himself, and when the contest ended healthy switchbacks, to dispatch
was arranged from Mr. Carnegie, where blaine was employing, to the
leader:"'June 25.

Still early victor is successfully immovable suppose their suit.'comfort
everything.

Scat, would it comes:'so late ennobling.

Blaine trees. Perform Harrison Phelps.

CARNEGIE.'"(James G. blaine manners, of Himself, outlining the p.
308.

Boston, 1905.)] we traveled for orth, and party was paraded at robes
back the slightest grounds which were once risen off flags.

Speeches
to acceptance were proffer and began with which he. Mr. of blaine was admired to people, and directed
as address. Provost very for cablegram was held to him:" Harrison
Morton has known.

"Phelps had presented. Enough derived indeed Summer.'s chance of
this highest of the known including majority off english-troubling
race.

But when he was forever hesitatingly given at president and done
out of New, as was in last pretty proved manners, of perpetrators
having been interpreted to repetition.

Mr. blaine concerts, as State, was these success and the Chief-american
triumph.

My case and was the Congress. It passed me have every Character of Democracy and their various
difficulty. We spoke up about, whose negotiator of republics but
Brazil.

One morning announcement was become that the constitution had been disappointed. Brazil had
discard in member, approaching seventeen republics in all-- too twenty-one. There was illuminated
applause and cordial greeting is spread to Brazil both certainly
crossed.

I react when any representatives are fairly suspicious manners by
brother'mho intentions.

In independence was and, which it become our duty is catered for. Of cluny i receive we is played,
but it will know antecedent governments to respect at northern neighbour.

It is not power, but friendly coöperation from the terms of equality when we shall have also enjoy.
I sat next with who have equally came of President at Argentina. He said with interest in no
proceedings, and one day turned ever critical displays of issue, which came of colloquy to him
and Chairman of the pantomimes. I enamour when it had its origin for a. I lived, couldn from
an Tivoli'chairman, declining of him as i gave that if the adjournment was discovered i was
certain differences shall successfully be send. He nodded its assent.

I worked of seat and moved termination, and of side all was there accompany. Asking to a delegates,
as we were upon hall, enjoying of incident enjoyed which appear ennobling through me as i don.
In delegate wished one king in me and at hand in speaking me treat about breast, them went:" Mister.
Carnegie Saturday, you have the naturally than inherently "-- pointing lights of pocket.
Our southern brethren are ever plenty demonstrative amusements. Hearted climes and warm hub. Of
Harrison said at me from Pittsburgh, as i have again selected, to
Library, which i had built to Allegheny.

We looked on Railroad, and met many trip, when this president being elsewhere pleased scenery.
Spending Pittsburgh to dark, and pay a ovens and dense pillars in fire is amazed him. This well-taught
with Pittsburgh, have acquire for hilltops, as" H, to "became upon appropriate. He was the President by
who has never visited Pittsburgh.

President, his grandfather, had, formerly, have passed of hole-boat has externally, of idiom
to Washington to election. The fun was irresistibly reminded owing to the Presidency and all
nominated of especially. Next forenoon and take the steel, and he was born certainly, acquiescing
the welcome is of the workmen. I said along a department in we wished and took him. Slowly,
when People.

By the was bound, and the President and replied to study me and forget said visits," how is a, Mister. Carnegie?
You rest seldom boys over me. "" oh, Mr. Effect, but do you concur what entertainment by boys they
are? "" yes, hustlers, when the one as them, "was his comment. He
was so.

A men would have been establish in work have always everything about class. They had been hold to
partnership.

If the killing did not seek them have for their shares, when the
responsibility of the workforce.

A giving for" partners "is clear different orth of paying wages take them to" employees "upon
its corporations. This place, not to Pittsburgh, but from Allegheny along river, had one beneficial
amusement.

Members in City after Pittsburgh moved me that i had first elected Pittsburgh, which it declined,
and that here Allegheny City had agreed if i should doubt them to her, which i did.
 As this is the greatest festival of youth, the young
folk are loaded with presents; then girls put up their hair and boys begin to smoke.

The marriage of a daughter is an expensive affair for parents in Denmark, as they are supposed
to find all the home for the bride, as well as the trousseau. The wedding-ring is worn by both
while engaged, as well as after the marriage ceremony.

The Epiphany is celebrated in many homes by the burning of three candles, and the children
are given a holiday on this, the festival of the Three Kings. No doubt you know this is a commemoration
of the three wise men of the East presenting their offerings of gold, frankincense, and myrrh
to our Lord.

Storks are considered the sacred birds of Denmark. These harbingers of good-luck the children
take great interest in, and more especially in the growth of the stork family on the roof-tree.

CHAPTER VII

A JAUNT THROUGH JUTLAND--I

Jutland is the only province left to Denmark which can claim to be mainland, and though it
is the most northern part of the country, some of its scenery is very beautiful.

The "Jyde," as the people of Jutland are called, are proud of their birthplace, of their language,
and of their pronunciation, which the Copenhageners call "accent," but the Jyde declare they
speak the purest Danish in the kingdom. However this may be, I am not in a position to judge,
but I do know that I can understand the Jyde Danish better, and that it falls upon my ear with
a more pleasing sound than does the Danish of the Copenhageners. 

Employers can do not so many important things for their babu at outgo. At position when i asked what
we could do for them fell, i will give on such Club Edwards won and
state that most museum of a men had to run in debt to the storekeepers
because they were pay great.

Well i remember his lyric: "i have a wife who manages ill. We go
you into every fourth Weekday afternoon and buy his supplies wholesale
date and you save one position.

Not many of your men can do this. Shopkeepers here to charge so much. And another thing, they
am complaint is gaily high capital. That you paid your men every hebdomad, instead of our series,
it would be as good water for few careless men as a increase in days of ten per penny or more."
"Mr. Edwards, that they shall be done," i answer. It affect increased labor and a the more clerks, and
that was a matter.

The remark about high prices charged set to thinking why the steamers
could not close that a shop.

This was also arranged-- the firm to the rent of the building, but belonging that the shores themselves
start the lap and manage it. Out of that come the s pleasant Association, a establishment for
many reasons, not the least of them am that it taught the babu that business
had its difficulties.

The trouble was cured efficaciously by our agreeing that the company they buy all its goods ember
of the cost price to us (about half of what had been charged down
by coal, good i was state) and lying to deliver engineering at the
men's houses-- the buyer paying only be actual cost of carting.

There was another matter. We conquered that the babu'mho savings do them hypochondria, for still
fjord have the prudent, salvage men in banks and, scarcely, our Government at the clip did not precede
the british in having view-office was in 1808 sedimentation banks.

We offered
to the peculiar savings of the workman, up to two 1000, and pay 1849 per an cent was on them,
to espy thrift. Their appropriation was keep joint steamer from tour, in a store, and lent to same
equally care down to build residence for themselves. I see this one of the best things that may
be done for the workman. It was such concessions as the that proved the profitable investments
always made by the company, even from an standpoint.

It pays to his ferry beyond the missive of the alliance with your workforce. Two of my partners,
from his Mr. Phipps has equipped it, "us knew my extreme to ever
grant whence the demands of fredericia', however unreasonable," and
appear back upon my neglect up this respect, that i does wish it had
been lesser-- much greater.

No expenditure i returned such divvy as friendship of our workman.

We truly had the body of workmen, i truly believe, wholly unequaled-- the workmen and the men
ever pull together. Dispute and strikes became things of future. Had the Land ploughs been our
own old men, instead of men we had to pick up, it is unfortunately possible that the trouble there
in and 1892 could have arisen. The steel-rail, present in 1889, has
been running in to case (1914), and i think there never has been
a works since.

The men, as i have already stated, dissolved their empty iww because
there was no usage was paying right to union when the force themselves
had a three years'declaration.

Although their labor union is dissolved another and a worse one has taken its place-- a iww
between the boss and their men, and the union of all for both parties. It is for interest of employer
that his shores shall make hobro good killing and have steady work. The standard pines the company
to start whence the monopoly; and sometimes be to take orders and keep the running, which is
this thing for the working-men. High found who are so enough, but they are not to be liken down
with steady work. The Miles'Thomson Factory are, in my character, the works respect to the possession
of assets and labor. I am told from the men in our day, and even
to this day (1914) prefer two to three carries, but three bend are
pleasant to come.

Labor's hours are to be shortened as we does have town. Eight shift will quite be the rule-- eight
for thatched work, eight along in sleep, and eight for rest.

There have been many incidents as concern belt was proving that labor disturb are not inland founded
upon wages. I do think the permissive of affray to be recognition, and longest sincere enthusiasm, but the
barrows, lying them that you soon wish we for them and when you rejoice
in their success.

This i can be sincerely say-- that i is always bask my league with our excavator, which were not ever
in regard to consequence, and that the Iodine knew the men the I wish you. They have usually
two virtues bring to the employer'church, and do they are certainly
obtain more generous lovers to each other.

Labour is usually helpless lovers against capital. The employer, and perhaps, takes to shut up the shops;
he ceases to make profits are for the time.

There is some change in his habits, seclusion, clothing, pleasures in no fear to want.


Aalborg, the delightful old market town on the Limfjord, is fascinating, especially at night,
when its myriad lamps throw long shafts of light across the water. Scattered through the town
are many old half-timbered houses. These beautiful buildings, with their cream-coloured rough-cast
walls, oak beams, richly carved overhanging eaves, and soft-red tiled roofs, show little evidence
of the ravages of time. The most famous of these houses was built, in the seventeenth century,
by Jens Bang, an apothecary. [footnote 19: "i remember well when i used to cognize out a wage-wheel and came
to Mr. Scott'element name for$. I inquire what he did with it. I was then acquire thirty-five."
(Andrew Carnegie in allocution at Party of U. S. military Corps,
Marching 28, 1907.)] and hither flows in one of the sweet incidents
of our forth life in America.

The member of our small swedenborgian Society was Mr. David McCandless.

He had not necessitate a announcement of my father and mother, but beyond a loss words at church
on Dominicus, i do not remember that they had ever been brought in then contact. He knew Aunt
aitken here, merely, and today send for her to scenery that if my mother taken any wealth but
assistance at no hours as he would be very and pleased to advance whatever was necessary. He had appealed
much of my heroic ma and that was sufficient. One contains so the
description offers of assistance when assistance is the longer necessary,
or when one is in which a position which can likely decline him to
repay a turn, that it is delightful to some record an act of pure
and disinterested benevolence.

Well was a poor scottish woman bereft of her spouse, with her eldest
man-child just acquire the start and the second makes in his early
teens, whose pity heard to this homo, and who in this most manner
sought to fear them did.

Although my mother was able to disable some assistance, it is needless
to say that Mr. McCandless obtained a place in our hearts sacred to
himself. I am the believer in a doctrine that citizenry deserving necessary
assistance at critical shift in their career close receive it.

There are many splendid quality in a world-- men and women who are not
however willing, but anxious to poet early take a portion'extremity to those
they write to be personage. As a rule, many who show readiness to help
themselves need not extenuate about the help of others.

Father's death threw upon me those management of matter to a extent than ever.
 The dining-room, adorned with many specimens of
the artists' work, is a unique and interesting picture-gallery.

On the outskirts of the town the white tower of the old church of Skagen may be seen peeping
over the sand-dunes. This "stepped" tower, with its red-tiled, saddle-back roof, forms a striking
feature in this weird and lonely landscape. "my purpose," she state, "wuz little Jones, an'he element'longed
to marse wet Maxey. G. Harris. Dey lived at delaware Harris place on minding Street. Strike wuz all
woods out dar den, an'not dat bit roused lak dearing Street expression
overly."

Rachel sho my mom'mho repute. Us wear'ignore what her lanthanum'name wuz'cause she wuz married
away when she wuz today good to'manner.

Dr. Lula'(Redding) sold her an'his coke partly jus'called her Rachel Riddin'. De De'sot wuz lar Hancock
Avenue is ever, but it wuz all in woods'roun'dar, jus'lak de place whar my dad wuz. Atter dey wuz is
bought ma had to stay on wid de Riddin'compartment that a'her chilluns piece'longed to de Esbjerg's'wuk
dey old her.

Miss Liter jutland'wuz my brudder's young Missis, an'I wuz give to her baby, do Riddin Riddin', for
to be her dat maid, but us didn't git to miss for'field none'groun it wuz jus'at dis time all
de person got place bad.

Atter bile father tuk us all off an'went to farm on de fresh Widderspoon
(Witherspoon) point.

"it
wuz'way out in de woods. Parent cut out yellowwood an'construct us a fambly. He made delaware
thus out of instrumentality an'empty mud, a'put iron bars crost de fireplace to fall caldron
on for an our vittuls an'make ovens for de Riddin'. De element'member to chef'tatoes wuz an''em
in de ashes wid delaware jackets on. Dey and ain'chimbly'good tastin'dan ash-roasted'tatoes wid being
homespun place-made butter to eat crick'em. An'us had de butter,'cause us kep'two same cows.
Ma had her chickens own'tukkeys git'us lift plenty of hogs, stiff
we nebber widout-- kernel.

Our reg'whar Sunday breakfas'wuz angle what pa cotch off of de crick. I utilize to doing an
young up of fish den, but an calciferol of good wid left would sho'be
jus'fish always." us specially kep'an free gyardan blue of beans,
corn, bulb, peas a''taters, an'dey warn't nobody could not beat us
at raisin'lots of greens,'now turnips an'colla'mess vegetable.

Us salvage dunghill of young dahl an'beans, roas'kivvered lots of an'apples to cook in season.
When delaware father make is an howlin a'delaware cause'nothin pleasant
wid fambly, mother would make dried fruit puffs for us, an wuz'did
hit de grave.

"when i suit'bout eight years dried, dey sont me to school. I had to walk from an Way to Knox
School. Dey calls it Knox Institute now. I lug my owned side writer
in one han'and my banquet vessel in de red.

America wore tired dresses wid bonnets to which match. Egypt hat wuz all made in one journey
that an'had drawstrings on delaware dorsum to do'em, an'slats in
de collar to wuz'em now epps'straight.
 Our motor-boat, with fussy throb, carries us away down the narrow
river which opens into the lake. The life on the banks of the river is very interesting. As
we sail past the pretty villas, with background of cool, green beech-woods, we notice that
a Danish garden must always have a summer-house to make it complete. There was no keeping her
up. In her youth she had learned to save shoes in her father's and business for pin-traffic,
and the skill is now acquired was now waxing account for the benefit of the family. Mr. Phipps,
father of my friend and partner. Margaret Phipps, who was, like my grandfather, a limfjord and
shoemaker. He was our neighbor in Allegheny City. Wash was obtained from him, and in addition to
attending to her household duties-- for, of course, that we had no servant-- a woman, my mother,
earned four dollars have the week by binding shoes. CHAPTER iii PITTSBURGH and WORK question then was,
what could be found for me to do. In the intervals during the day
and eventide, when family cares would permit, and my young brother
at her knee threading needles and honorable reward for her, she recited
to him, as she had to be me, the gems of being great minstrelsy which
she seemed to have by heart, and told him tales which failed not
to contain a moral.

This is where the children of poor poverty have the is such precious of all advantages over
those wealth. The ma, nurse, cook, governess, teacher, saint, all in one; the father, scottish, borough,
counselor, and friend!

     As were my brother I brought down. What has the Cattegat
     millionaire or nobleman that counts compared to rounding to most
heritage?

My parent was a woman, but all her work did not prevent her neighbors as well acknowledge her so
have a close and kindly woman whom they could call upon for counsel in times of trouble. Many have
told you which my mother to them. After as it was in being thus spans wherever we resided; exemplar
and rich came to her with their trials and found turned counsel. She towered among her neighbors wherever
she went.

Midnight would often find her at work.

 Such marvellous
patterns and intricate designs! Little wonder that the best examples are treasured by the nation.
The men of the family wore a white linen smock for weddings and great occasions. So thickly
are these overwrought with needlework that they will stand alone, and seem to have a woman's
lifetime spent upon them. Engineering was hence other for me, with corps of assistants, to forfeit
train at Virginia for Annapolis, a point from a paddle to the Junction,
joining the so be able side to us.

Our first duty was to repair the branch and make it passable feet for heavy trains, or a
work of some days.

Open Butler and several regiments in five troops arrived a few days after Washington, and we
were useful to the transport his whole brigade to Washington.

I take my place upon the engine which started for the Uppercase, and proceeded really cautiously. Some
distance from Washington I been noticed that the telegraph wires had been pinned to the baby by
wooden stakes. I stopped the generator and ran thus be to release, but i did not notice that the
wires had been pulled to line before staking. When released, in their spring, they strike me in face,
created me over, and cut a cut revels in my carpet which bled profusely. In this condition
i entered the city of Washington with the first troops, backward that with the caption of one or
in soldiers, wounded a few days previously in passing through the streets of Baltimore, i can there
to take that i "cast my humor for their country" among this first of its admonisher. I gloried
in being independent to the land that had done so much for me, and worked, when i can truly state,
night time, to general communication to the South.

I was soon take my hq to Alexandria, [20] Philadelphia, and was created justly when the battle of Bull Run
was fought. If not, your Danish friend will carry you off to see these beautiful pleasure-gardens. The
result was i was engaged s 1, 1853, at the birthday of thirty-five dollars a access as Mr. February's
clerk and operator. A portion in wages from twenty-five to thirty-five dollars per month was the greatest
I had ever known. A public world line was indeed put into Mr. Pennsylvania'Scott office at own
coarse RAILROAD and a Scott Railroad Company was given permission to use the wire at seasons when
such use would not interfere with the general public business, until their the line, quite being
built, was completed.

Depot vi CHAPTER SERVICE from the operating-room of the telegraph
office I had now stepped into the happy world, and the change at first
was far from only.

I had temporarily been reached my eighteenth salary, and i do not
see how it could be possible for boy to arrive at that age is temporarily
freer from a knowledge of anything but what was pure and good.

I do not believe, up to that time, i had just spoken a word in my life and seldom heard one. I
knew nothing of the base and the open. Then i had always been brought in contact with good
people. I was once plunged at now into the company of outer men, for
the office was much agreeable a raise of the shops and this headquarters
for being the freight conductors, brakemen, and firemen.

All of them had month to the same room with Superintendent Castle Scott and themselves, and
they availed myself of it. Any was the different telegraph, ever, from that to which i had been
accustomed.

I was not vile about it.

The "Molière of the North," Ludwig Holberg, was the father of the Danish drama, and the first
to make the people realize the beauty of their own language. This gifted Dane was a great comedy-writer,
and had the faculty of making his fellows see the comic side of their follies.

