  Father and mother,
brothers Bartolomeo and Giacomo, sister Biancinetta, aunts, uncles, and cousins possibly, and
possibly for a little while an old grandmother at Quinto--these were the people to whom that
child belonged. The little life of his first decade, unviolated by documents or history, lives
happily in our dreams, as blank as sunshine.

CHAPTER III

YOUNG CHRISTOPHER

Christopher was fourteen years old when he first went to sea.  That is his own statement, and
it is one of the few of his autobiographical utterances that we need not doubt.  From it, and
from a knowledge of certain other dates, we are able to construct some vague picture of his
doings before he left Italy and settled in Portugal.  Already in his young heart he was feeling
the influence that was to direct and shape his destiny; already, towards his home in Genoa,
long ripples from the commotion of maritime adventure in the West were beginning to spread.
At the age of ten he was apprenticed to his father, who undertook, according to the indentures,
to provide him with board and lodging, a blue gabardine and a pair of good shoes, and various
other matters in return for his service.  But there is no reason to suppose that he ever occupied
himself very much with wool-weaving.  He had a vocation quite other than that, and if he ever
did make any cloth there must have been some strange thoughts and imaginings woven into it,
as he plied the shuttle.  Most of his biographers, relying upon a doubtful statement in the
life of him written by his son Ferdinand, would have us send him at the age of twelve to the
distant University of Pavia, there, poor mite, to sit at the feet of learned professors studying
Latin, mathematics, and cosmography; but fortunately it is not necessary to believe so improbable
a statement.  What is much more likely about his education--for education he had, although
not of the superior kind with which he has been credited--is that in the blank, sunny time
of his childhood he was sent to one of the excellent schools established by the weavers in
their own quarter, and that there or afterwards he came under some influence, both religious
and learned, which stamped him the practical visionary that he remained throughout his life.
Thereafter, between his sea voyagings and expeditions about the Mediterranean coasts, he no
doubt acquired knowledge in the only really practical way that it can be acquired; that is
to say, he received it as and when he needed it.  What we know is that he had in later life
some knowledge of the works of Aristotle, Julius Caesar, Seneca, Pliny, and Ptolemy; of Ahmet-Ben-Kothair
the Arabic astronomer, Rochid the Arabian, and the Rabbi Samuel the Jew; of Isadore the Spaniard,
and Bede and Scotus the Britons; of Strabo the German, Gerson the Frenchman, and Nicolaus de
Lira the Italian.  These names cover a wide range, but they do not imply university education.
Some of them merely suggest acquaintance with the 'Imago Mundi'; others imply that selective
faculty, the power of choosing what can help a man's purpose and of rejecting what is useless
to it, that is one of the marks of genius, and an outward sign of the inner light.

We must think of him, then, at school in Genoa, grinding out the tasks that are the common
heritage of all small boys; working a little at the weaving, interestedly enough at first,
no doubt, while the importance of having a loom appealed to him, but also no doubt rapidly
cooling off in his enthusiasm as the pastime became a task, and the restriction of indoor life
began to be felt.  For if ever there was a little boy who loved to idle about the wharves and
docks, here was that little boy. It was here, while he wandered about the crowded quays and
listened to the medley of talk among the foreign sailors, and looked beyond the masts of the
ships into the blue distance of the sea, that the desire to wander and go abroad upon the face
of the waters must first have stirred in his heart.  The wharves of Genoa in those days combined
in themselves all the richness of romance and adventure, buccaneering, trading, and treasure-snatching,
that has ever crowded the pages of romance.  There were galleys and caravels, barques and feluccas,
pinnaces and caraccas. There were slaves in the galleys, and bowmen to keep the slaves in subjection.
There were dark-bearded Spaniards, fair-haired Englishmen; there were Greeks, and Indians,
and Portuguese.  The bales of goods on the harbour-side were eloquent of distant lands, and
furnished object lessons in the only geography that young Christopher was likely to be learning.
There was cotton from Egypt, and tin and lead from Southampton.  There were butts of Malmsey
from Candia; aloes and cassia and spices from Socotra; rhubarb from Persia; silk from India;
wool from Damascus, raw wool also from Calais and Norwich.  No wonder if the little house in
the Vico Dritto di Ponticello became too narrow for the boy; and no wonder that at the age
of fourteen he was able to have his way, and go to sea.  One can imagine him gradually acquiring
an influence over his father, Domenico, as his will grew stronger and firmer--he with one grand
object in life, Domenico with none; he with a single clear purpose, and Domenico with innumerable
cloudy ones.  And so, on some day in the distant past, there were farewells and anxious hearts
in the weaver's house, and Christopher, member of the crew of some trading caravel or felucca,
a diminishing object to the wet eyes of his mother, sailed away, and faded into the blue distance.

They had lost him, although perhaps they did not realise it; from the moment of his first voyage
the sea claimed him as her own.  Widening horizons, slatting of cords and sails in the wind,
storms and stars and strange landfalls and long idle calms, thunder of surges, tingle of spray,
and eternal labouring and threshing and cleaving of infinite waters--these were to be his portion
and true home hereafter. Attendances at Court, conferences with learned monks and bishops,
sojourns on lonely islands, love under stars in the gay, sun-smitten Spanish towns, governings
and parleyings in distant, undreamed-of lands --these were to be but incidents in his true
life, which was to be fulfilled in the solitude of sea watches.

When he left his home on this first voyage, he took with him one other thing besides the restless
longing to escape beyond the line of sea and sky.  Let us mark well this possession of his,
for it was his companion and guiding-star throughout a long and difficult life, his chart and
compass, astrolabe and anchor, in one.  Religion has in our days fallen into decay among men
of intellect and achievement.  The world has thrown it, like a worn garment or an old skin,
from off its body, the thing itself being no longer real and alive, and in harmony with the
life of an age that struggles towards a different kind of truth.  It is hard, therefore, for
us to understand exactly how the religion of Columbus entered so deeply into his life and brooded
so widely over his thoughts.

