LIVES

OF THE

THREE MRS. JUDSONS:

MRS. ANN H. JUDSON,

     MRS. SARAH B. JUDSON,

          MRS. EMILY C. JUDSON,

MISSIONARIES TO BURMAH.

BY

ARABELLA W. STUART,

(MRS. ARABELLA M. WILLSON.)

    A self-denying band, who counted not
    Life dear unto them, so they might fulfil
    Their ministry, and save the heathen soul.

BOSTON: LEE AND SHEPARD, PUBLISHERS.

NEW YORK: CHARLES T. DILLINGHAM.

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-five,

By Miller, Orton & Mulligan,

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Northern District of New York.

PREFACE.

Among the many benefits which modern missions have conferred on the world, not the least, perhaps,
is the field they have afforded for the development of the highest excellence of female character.
The limited range of avocations allotted to woman, and her consequent inability to gain an
elevated rank in the higher walks of life, has been a theme of complaint with many modern reformers,
especially with the party who are loud in their advocacy of woman's rights. That few of the
sex have risen to eminence in any path but that of literature, is too well known to admit of
denial, and might be proved by the scantiness of female biography. How few of the memoirs and
biographical sketches which load the shelves of our libraries, record the lives of women!

The missionary enterprise opens to woman a sphere of activity, usefulness and distinction,
not, under the present constitution of society, to be found elsewhere. Here she may exhibit
whatever she possesses of skill in the mastery of unknown and difficult dialects; of tact in
dealing with the varieties of human character; of ardor and perseverance in the pursuit of
a noble end under the most trying discouragements; and of exalted Christian heroism and fortitude,
that braves appalling dangers, and even death in its most dreadful forms, in its affectionate
devotion to earthly friends, and the service of a Heavenly Master. Compared with the true independence,
the noble energy, the almost superhuman intrepidity of the Mrs. Judsons, how weak and despicable
seem the struggles of many misguided women in our day, who seek to gain a reluctant acknowledgment
of equality with the other sex, by a noisy assertion of their rights, and in some instances,
by an imitation of their attire! Who would not turn from a female advocate at the bar, or judge
upon the bench, surrounded by the usual scenes of a court-house, even if she filled these offices
with ability and talent, to render honor rather to her, who laying on the altar of sacrifice
whatever of genius, or acquirement, or loveliness she may possess, goes forth to cheer and
to share the labors and cares of the husband of her youth, in his errand of love to the heathen?

And it seems peculiarly appropriate that woman, who doubtless owes to Christianity most of
the domestic consideration and social advantages, which in enlightened countries she regards
as her birthright, should be the bearer of these blessings to her less favored sisters in heathen
lands. If the Christian religion was a Gospel to the poor, it was no less emphatically so to
woman, whom it redeemed from social inferiority and degradation, the fruit for ages of that
transgression which "brought death into the world, and all our wo." Never until on the morning
of the resurrection "she came early unto the sepulchre," was she made one in Christ Jesus (in
whom "there is neither in male nor female") with him who had hitherto been her superior and
her master. Nor does she seem then to have misunderstood her high mission, or to have been
wanting to it. The 'sisters' in the infant churches rivalled the brethren in attachment and
fidelity to the cause, and to their "ministry" the new religion was indebted in no small degree
for its unparalleled success.

Perhaps an apology may be deemed necessary for another memoir of the distinguished females
whose names adorn our title-page. With regard to the first Mrs. Judson, it has been thought
that a simple narrative of her life, unencumbered with details of the history of the mission,
would be more attractive to youthful readers than the excellent biography by Mr. Knowles. Of
the second, though we cannot hope or wish to rival the graceful and spirited sketch by Fanny
Forrester, still it is believed that a plain, unembellished story of a life which was in itself
so exceedingly interesting, may also find favor with the public.

As to the last of these three Christian heroines who has so lately departed from among us,
as full a sketch as practicable is given, from a wish to embalm in one urn--perhaps a fragile
one--the memories of all those whose virtues and affections have contributed so largely to
the happiness and usefulness of one of the noblest and most successful of modern missionaries--the
Rev. Adoniram Judson.

The approval of several of the friends of the subjects of these memoirs, has encouraged us
in our undertaking, and it is our sincere desire that the manner of its execution may be found
acceptable, not only to them, but to the friends of missions in general. And should the work
gain favor with our youthful readers, especially with female members of Sunday-schools and
Bible-classes, and prompt them to a noble emulation of so illustrious examples, the author's
fondest hopes will be more than realized.

CONTENTS.

PART I.

THE LIFE OF THE FIRST MRS. JUDSON

CHAPTER I.                                                          Page

Mrs. Judson's Birth.--Education and Conversion,                       13

CHAPTER II.

Her Marriage and Voyage to India,                                     21

CHAPTER III.

Her Arrival at Calcutta.--Difficulties with the Bengal Government.--Voyage to the Isle of France.--Death
of Mrs. Newell.--Change of Sentiments.--Voyage to Rangoon,                    28

CHAPTER IV.

Description of Burmah, its boundaries, rivers, climate, soil, fruits and flowers--Burman People,
their dress, houses, food, government and religion,                                       
37

CHAPTER V.

Rangoon--Letters from Mrs. Judson,                                    52

CHAPTER VI.

Learning the Language.--Mrs. J. visits the Wife of the Viceroy.--Her Sickness.--Her Voyage
to Madras.--Her Return to Rangoon.--Birth of a Son,                                       
60

CHAPTER VII.

Difficulty of inculcating the Gospel.--Death of her Son.--Failure of Mrs. Judson's Health.--Arrival
of Mr. and Mrs. Hough at Rangoon,                                                              66

CHAPTER VIII.

Missionary Labors.--Female Intellect in Burmah.--Description of a Pagoda.--Burman Worship,
and Offerings,                             74

CHAPTER IX.

Distressing Events.--Mr. Judson's Absence from Rangoon.--Persecution of Mr. Hough.--His Departure
for Bengal.--Mrs. Judson's heroic Fortitude.--Mr. Judson's Return,                               82

CHAPTER X.

Intolerance of the Burman Government.--First Edifice for Christian Worship erected.--Instruction
of Natives.--Conversion of a Native.--His Baptism.--That of two timid Disciples.--Messrs. Judson
and Colman visit Ava,                                          91

CHAPTER XI.

Reception of Messrs. Colman and Judson at Ava--Their Return to Rangoon.--Their Resolution to
leave Rangoon.--Opposition of Disciples to this Measure.--Increase of Disciples.--Their Steadfastness.--Failure
of Mrs. Judson's Health,                      95

CHAPTER XII.

Mr. and Mrs. Judson visit Bengal and return.--Mrs. Judson's Health again fails.--Her Resolution
to visit America.--Her Voyage to England and Visit there,                                 
104

CHAPTER XIII.

Mrs. Judson's Arrival in America.--Influence of her Visit.--Hostile Opinions.--Her Person and
Manners.--Extracts from her Letters,       110

CHAPTER XIV.

Further Extracts from her Letters.--Her Illness.--Her History of the Burman Mission.--Her Departure
from America with Mr. and Mrs. Wade,                                                       119

CHAPTER XV.

Messrs. Judson and Price visit Ava.--Their Reception at Court.--Their Return to Rangoon.--Mrs.
Judson's Return.--A Letter to her Parents describing their Removal to Ava.--Description of
Ava,                                                                 127

CHAPTER XVI.

War with the British.--Narrative of the Sufferings of the Missionaries during the War,    
131

CHAPTER XVII.

Narrative continued and concluded.--Their deliverance from Burman Tyranny, and Protection by
British Government,                       141

CHAPTER XVIII.

Influence of these Disasters on the Missionary Enterprise.--Testimonials to Mrs. Judson's Heroic
Conduct.--Letter from Mr. Judson.--His Acceptance of the Post of Interpreter to Crawford's
Embassy.--Mrs. Judson's Residence at Amherst.--Her Illness and Death.--Death of her Infant,
166

       *       *       *       *       *

PART II.

THE LIFE OF THE SECOND MRS. JUDSON.

CHAPTER I.

Birth and Education.--Poetical Talent,                               183

CHAPTER II.

Conversion.--Bias toward a Missionary Life.--Acquaintance with Boardman,                  
193

CHAPTER III.

Account of George Dana Boardman,                                     198

CHAPTER IV.

Marriage of Miss Hall and Mr. Boardman.--They sail for India--Letter from Mr. B.--Letters from
Mrs. B.--Another Letter from Mr. B.,                                                         204

CHAPTER V.

Stationed at Maulmain.--Attack of Banditti.--Missionary Operations.--Danger from Fire,    
222

CHAPTER VI.

Removal to Tavoy.--Idolatry of the People.--Letter from Mrs. B.--Baptism of a Karen Disciple.--Some
Account of the Karens,        230

CHAPTER VII.

Letter from Mrs. B.--Mr. B's. Visit to the Karens in their Villages.--Defection of Disciples.--Its
Effect on Mr. and Mrs. B.,   239

CHAPTER VIII.

Death of their First-born.--Letters from Mrs. B.,                    248

CHAPTER IX.

Revolt of Tavoy.--Letter from Mr. B.,                                252

CHAPTER X.

Missionary Labors of Mr. Boardman--His ill Health.--Letter from Mrs. B.--Death of a second
Child.--Letters from Mrs. B.,             262

CHAPTER XI.

Letter from Mrs. Boardman.--Illness and Death of George Dana Boardman,                    
269

CHAPTER XII.

Letters from Mrs. B.--Her Decision to remain in Burmah.--Her Missionary Labors.--Her Trials.--Schools,
284

CHAPTER XIII.

Correspondence between Mrs. Boardman and the Superintendent.--Her Tours among the Karens.--Her
Personal Appearance.--Her Acquaintance with the Burman Language.--Dr. Judson's Translation
of the Bible,                                            296

CHAPTER XIV.

Mrs. Boardman's Second Marriage.--Removal to Maulmain.--Letter from Mrs. Judson.--Her Son sent
to America.--Her Husband's Illness,                                                             304

CHAPTER XV.

Illness of her Children.--Death of one of them.--Her Missionary Labors, and Family Cares.--Her
Declining Health.--Poem.--Her last Illness and Death,                                     
311

       *       *       *       *       *

PART III.

THE LIFE OF THE THIRD MRS. JUDSON.

CHAPTER I.

Remarks on her Genius--Her Early Life.--Conversion.-- Employments--Tales and Poems--Acquaintance
with Dr. Judson.--Marriage.--Voyage to India--Biography of Mrs. S.B. Judson.--Poem written
off St. Helena--Poem on the Birth of an Infant.--Lines addressed to a Bereaved Friend--Letter
to her Children.--Prayer for dear Papa.--Poem addressed to her Mother.--Her Account of Dr.
Judson's last Illness and Death,         321

CHAPTER II.

Reflections on the Death of Emily C. Judson--The Delicacy of her Constitution and her Final
Malady--Her Sufferings at Rangoon, and the Good Effect upon her Health of a Removal to Maulmain--Precarious
State of her Health--Her Resignation--Death of Dr. Judson--Decides to Leave Burmah, and Returns
to her Maternal Home, in Hamilton. N.Y.--Her death--The Traits of her Character--Domestic Attachments--Her
Missionary Life and Literary Labors,                                                     357

PART I.

LIFE OF MRS. ANN H. JUDSON,

FIRST WIFE OF

REV. ADONIRAM JUDSON, D.D.

CHAPTER I.

MRS. JUDSON'S BIRTH, EDUCATION, AND CONVERSION.

When an individual attains a position of eminence which commands the admiration of the world,
we naturally seek to learn his early history, to ascertain what indications were given in childhood
of qualities destined to shine with such resplendent lustre, and to discover the kind of discipline
which has developed powers so extraordinary. But in no researches are we more apt to be baffled
than in these. Few children are so remarkable as to make it worth while, even to a parent,
to chronicle their little sayings and doings; and of infant prodigies--though there is a superstitious
belief that most of them die early, which is expressed in the adage--

    "Whom the Gods love, die young,"

those that live commonly disappoint the hopes of partial friends, who watched their infancy
with wonder and expectation.

There are certain qualities, however, which we shall rarely miss even in the childhood of those
who attain eminence by a wise employment of their talents and acquirements. These are: firmness
of purpose, industry and application, and an ardent, and sometimes enthusiastic temperament.
These qualities were possessed in no common degree by Ann Hasseltine, the subject of this memoir.
She was born in Bradford, Massachusetts, on the 22d of December, 1789. In a sketch which she
has given of her life, between twelve and seventeen years of age, we find evidence of an active,
ardent, and social disposition, gay and buoyant spirits, persevering industry, and great decision
of character.

Whatever engaged her attention, whether study or amusement, was pursued with an ardor that
excited the sympathy and love both of her teachers and schoolfellows. Though little of her
writing at this period is preserved, and the generation that knew her personally is mostly
passed away, yet her whole subsequent career gives evidence of an intellect of a very high
order, carefully cultivated by study and reflection.

She seems scarcely to have been the subject of serious impressions before her seventeenth year.
Until that time she enjoyed the pleasures of the world with few misgivings and with a keenness
of relish which led her to think herself, as she says, "the happiest creature on earth." She
adds, "I so far surpassed my friends in gayety and mirth, that some of them were apprehensive
I had but a short time to continue in my career of folly, and should be suddenly cut off. Thus
passed the last winter of my gay life."

During the spring of 1806, she began regularly to attend a series of conference meetings in
Bradford, her native town. She soon felt that the Spirit of God was operating on her mind.
Amusements lost their relish; she felt that she must have a new heart or perish forever; and
she often sought solitude, that she might, unseen by others, weep over her deplorable state.
Soon, however, her fears that her distress might be noticed by her companions, were merged
in her greater terrors of conscience, and she "was willing the whole universe should know that
she felt herself to be a lost and perishing sinner." Her distress increased as she became more
and more sensible of the depravity of her heart, and the holiness and sovereignty of God. Her
mind rose in rebellion against a Being, who after all her prayers and tears and self-denial,
still withheld from her the blessing of pardon and peace. She says, "In this state I longed
for annihilation, and if I could have destroyed the existence of my soul with as much ease
as that of my body, I should quickly have done it. But that glorious Being who is kinder to
his creatures than they are to themselves, did not leave me to remain in this distressing state."
The plan of salvation through a crucified Redeemer, gradually unfolded itself before her; she
began to take delight in those attributes of God which before had filled her with abhorrence;
and although she did not at first imagine that this was the new heart for which she had sought
so earnestly, yet she was constrained to commit all her interests for time and eternity unreservedly
to that Saviour, who now seemed infinitely worthy of the service of her whole existence.[1]

The change in her from extreme worldliness to a life of piety and prayer was deep and permanent.
Hers was no half-way character. While she was of the world, she pursued its follies with entire
devotion of heart; and when she once renounced it as unsatisfying, and unworthy of her immortal
aspirations, she renounced it solemnly and finally. Her ardor for learning did not abate, but
instead of being inspired, as formerly by a thirst for human applause and distinction, it was
now prompted by her sense of responsibility to God for the cultivation of the talents he had
given her, and her desire to make herself increasingly useful. In the sketch referred to she
remarks, "I attended my studies in school with far different feelings and different motives
from what I had ever done before. I felt my obligation to improve all I had to the glory of
God; and since he in his providence had favored me with advantages for improving my mind, I
felt that I should be like the slothful servant if I neglected them. I therefore diligently
employed all my hours in school in acquiring useful knowledge, and spent my evenings and part
of the night in spiritual enjoyments." "Such was my thirst for religious knowledge, that I
frequently spent a great part of the night in reading religious books." A friend says of her:
"She thirsted for the knowledge of gospel truth in all its relations and dependencies. Besides
the daily study of the scripture with Guise, Orton, and Scott before her, she perused with
deep interest the works of Edwards, Hopkins, Belamy, Doddridge, &c. With Edwards on Redemption,
she was instructed, quickened, strengthened. Well do I remember the elevated smile that beamed
on her countenance when she first spoke to me of its precious contents. When reading scripture,
sermons, or other works, if she met with anything dark or intricate, she would mark the passage,
and beg the first clergyman who called at her father's to elucidate and explain it."

How evidently to us, though unconsciously to herself, was her Heavenly Father thus fitting
her for the work he was preparing for her. Had she known that she was to spend her days in
instructing bigoted and captious idolaters in religious knowledge, she could not have trained
herself for the task more wisely than she was thus led to do.

While, under the guidance of the Spirit of truth, she was thus cultivating her intellect, that
same Spirit was also sanctifying and purifying her heart. She loathed sin both in herself and
others, and strove to avoid it, not from the fear of hell, but from fear of displeasing her
Father in heaven.

In one place she writes: "Were it left to myself whether to follow the vanities of the world,
and go to heaven at last, or to live a religious life, have trials with sin and temptation,
and sometimes enjoy the light of God's reconciled countenance, I should not hesitate a moment
in choosing the latter, for there is no real satisfaction in the enjoyments of time and sense."

On the fourteenth of August, 1806, she made a public profession of religion, and united with
the Congregational church at Bradford, being in her seventeenth year.

Very early in her religious life she became sensible that if unusual advantages for acquiring
knowledge had fallen to her lot, she was the more bound to use her talents and acquirements
for the benefit of others less favored than herself. Actuated by such motives, she opened a
small school in her native place, and subsequently taught in several neighboring villages.
Her example in this respect is surely worthy of imitation. Perhaps no person is more admirable
than a young lady fitted like Miss Hasseltine by a cultivated mind and engaging manners to
shine in society, who having the choice between a life of ease and one of personal exertion,
chooses voluntarily, or only in obedience to the dictates of conscience, the weary and self-denying
path of the teacher. And probably such a course would oftener be chosen, were young persons
aware of the unquestionable fact, that the school in which we make the most solid and rapid
improvement, is that in which we teach others.

An extract from her journal will sustain what we have said of her conscientiousness and purity
of motive in endeavoring to instruct the young:

"May 12, 1809.--Have taken charge of a few scholars. Ever since I have had a comfortable hope
in Christ, I have desired to devote myself to him in such a way as to be useful to my fellow-creatures.
As Providence has placed me in a situation in life where I have an opportunity of getting as
good an education as I desire, I feel it would be highly criminal in me not to improve it.
I feel, also, that it would be equally criminal to desire to be well educated and accomplished,
from selfish motives, with a view merely to gratify my taste and relish for improvement, or
my pride in being qualified to shine. I therefore resolved last winter to attend the academy
from no other motive than to improve the talents bestowed by God, so as to be more extensively
devoted to his glory, and the benefit of my fellow-creatures. On being lately requested to
take a small school for a few months, I felt very unqualified to have the charge of little
immortals; but the hope of doing them good by endeavoring to impress their young and tender
minds with divine truth, and the obligation I feel to try to be useful, have induced me to
comply. I was enabled to open the school with prayer. Though the cross was very great, I felt
constrained by a sense of duty to take it up. O may I have grace to be faithful in instructing
these children in such a way as shall be pleasing to my heavenly Father."

Such being the principles by which she was actuated in commencing the work of instruction,
we cannot doubt that her efforts to be useful were blessed not only by the temporal, but the
spiritual advancement of her pupils, some of whom may appear, with children from distant Burmah,
as crowns of her rejoicing in the last great day.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: She thus describes more particularly the exercises of her mind, in an entry in
her Journal a year later.

"July 6. It is just a year this day since I entertained a hope in Christ. Then came light,
and relief, and comfort, such as I never knew before."]

CHAPTER II.

HER MARRIAGE, AND VOYAGE TO INDIA.

In 1810, the calm current of Miss Hasseltine's life was disturbed by circumstances which were
to change all her prospects, and color her whole future destiny. From the quiet and seclusion
of her New England home, she was called to go to the ends of the earth, on a mission of mercy
to the dark browed and darker minded heathen.

It is perhaps impossible for us to realize now what was then the magnitude of such an enterprise.
Our wonderful facilities for intercourse with the most distant nations, and the consequent
vast amount of travel, were entirely unknown forty years ago. A journey of two hundred miles
then involved greater perplexity and required nearly as much preparation, and was certainly
attended with more fatigue than a voyage to England at the present day. The subject of evangelizing
the heathen in foreign countries had scarcely received any attention in Europe, and in this
country there was not even a Missionary Society. That a female should renounce the refinements
of her enlightened and Christian home, and go thousands of miles across unknown oceans

        "to the farthest verge
    Of the green earth, to distant barbarous climes,"

to spend her life in an unhealthy climate, among a race whose language was strange to her ear,
whose customs were revolting to her delicacy, and who might moreover make her a speedy victim
to her zeal in their behalf,--a thing so common now as to excite no surprise and little interest--was
then hardly deemed possible, if indeed, the idea of it entered the imagination. To decide the
question of such an undertaking as this, as well as another question affecting her individual
happiness through life, was Miss Hasseltine now summoned.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Judson, a graduate of Brown University, "an ardent and aspiring scholar," was one of four
or five young men in the then newly founded Theological Seminary at Andover, whose minds had
become deeply impressed with the wants of the heathen, and a desire to go and labor among them.
By their earnestness and perseverance, they so far awakened an interest in their project, that
a Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions was appointed, and the young men were set apart
as missionaries. During the two years in which Mr. Judson and his associates were employed
in efforts to accomplish this result, he had formed an acquaintance with Miss Hasseltine, and
made her an offer of his hand. That he had no wish to blind her to the extent of the sacrifices
she would make in accepting him, his manly and eloquent letter to her father, asking his daughter
in marriage, abundantly proves. He says:

"I have now to ask whether you can consent to part with your daughter early next spring, to
see her no more in this world; whether you can consent to her departure for a heathen land,
and her subjection to the hardships and sufferings of a missionary life; whether you can consent
to her exposure to the dangers of the ocean; to the fatal influence of the southern climate
of India; to every kind of want and distress; to degradation, insult, persecution, and perhaps
a violent death? Can you consent to all this for the sake of Him who left his heavenly home,
and died for her and for you; for the sake of perishing immortal souls; for the sake of Zion
and the glory of God? Can you consent to all this in hope of soon meeting your daughter in
the world of glory, with a crown of righteousness, brightened by the acclamations of praise
which shall redound to her Saviour from heathens saved, through her means, from eternal woe
and despair?"

The writer of this letter, who, after nearly forty years of missionary labor in which he endured
all and more than all he has thus almost prophetically described, has just gone to join "the
noble army of martyrs" and "those who came out of great tribulation," in his final home,--as
he looks back on the hour when he thus gave up his life and what was more precious than life
to the service of those souls, dear as he believed to the Redeemer, though perishing for lack
of vision,--with what deep and serene joy must he contemplate the sacrifice! And she--

    "Not lost, but gone before,"

who was there to meet and welcome him to

    "happier bowers than Eden knew,"

where they rest from their labors, does she now regret that to his solemn appeal, she answered,
"I will go?"

Mr. and Mrs. Judson were married at Bradford on the fifth of February, 1812, and on the nineteenth
of the same month embarked on the brig Caravan, bound for Calcutta. Mr. and Mrs. Newell, also
missionaries sailed in the same vessel. We will here give some extracts from letters written
by Mrs. Judson to her friends at home, dated "at sea."

To her sister she writes, "I find Mr. Judson one of the kindest, most faithful and affectionate
of husbands. His conversation frequently dissipates the gloomy clouds of spiritual darkness
which hang over my mind and brightens my hope of a happy eternity. I hope God will make us
instrumental of preparing each other for usefulness in this world, and greater happiness in
a future world."

"June 16.--Day before yesterday, we came in sight of land, after having been out only one hundred
and twelve days. We could distinguish nothing but the lowering mountains of Golconda. Yesterday
we were nearer land ... and the scene was truly delightful, reminding me of the descriptions
I have read of the fertile shores of India--the groves of orange and palm trees. Yesterday
we saw two vessels.... You have no idea how interesting the sight--a vessel at the side of
us, so near we could hear the captain speak--for he was the first person we have heard speak
since we sailed, except what belong to our ship.

"Tuesday.--Last night was the most dangerous, and to me, by far the most unpleasant we have
had.... To-day the scene is truly delightful. We are sailing up the river Hoogly, a branch
of the Ganges, and so near the land that we can distinctly discover objects. On one side of
us are the Sunderbunds, (islands at the mouth of the Ganges.) The smell which proceeds from
them is fragrant beyond description.

"Wednesday.--On each side of the Hoogly are the Hindoo cottages, as thick together as the houses
in our seaports. They are very small, and in the form of hay-stacks, without either chimneys
or windows. They are situated in the midst of trees which hang over them and appear truly romantic.
The grass and fields of rice are perfectly green, and herds of cattle are everywhere feeding
on the banks of the river, and the natives are scattered about, ... some fishing, some driving
the team, and some sitting indolently on the bank of the river. The pagodas we have passed
are much handsomer and larger than the houses. There are many English seats near the shore....
Oh, what reason we have to be thankful for so pleasant and prosperous a voyage....

"Well, sister, we are safe in Calcutta harbor, and almost stunned with the noise of the natives.
Mr. Judson has gone on shore to find a place for us to go. The city is by far the most elegant
of any I have ever seen. Many ships are lying at anchor, and hundreds of natives all around.
They are dressed very curiously--their white garments hanging loosely over their shoulders.
But I have not time to describe anything at present.

"Thursday.--Harriet and I are yet on board the vessel, and have not been on land. Mr. Judson
has not yet gained permission for us to live in the country. He and Mr. Newell are gone again
to-day, and what will be their success I know not. The East India Company are violently opposed
to missions, and have barely given permission to their own countrymen to settle here as preachers.
We have nothing to expect from man, and everything from God.... If God has anything for us
to do here, he will doubtless open a door for our entrance, if not he will send us to some
other place."

Mr. and Mrs. Judson landed at Calcutta on the 18th of June, 1812, and were hospitably received
by the venerable Dr. Carey, who immediately conducted them to his home in Serampore. There
they found a delightful mission family, consisting of Messrs. Carey Marshman and Ward, with
their wives and children who welcomed them most cordially, and invited them to remain until
the arrival of their brother missionaries. Of the arrangements in this truly Christian family--the
schools, the religious exercises, the cultivation of the gardens belonging to the establishment,
and the instruction communicated to the natives, they express themselves in the highest terms
of eulogy.

Hitherto the course of our missionaries in their enterprise had indeed run smooth, and they
had begun to flatter themselves that they had over-estimated the trials and dangers of the
life they had chosen; but sad reverses awaited them. They had been in Serampore but ten days,
when Messrs. Judson and Newell were summoned to Calcutta, where an order from government was
read to them, commanding them immediately to leave the country, and return to America. The
British East India Company were at that time unfriendly to missions, and especially intolerant
to missionaries from America. The idea of returning, without effecting the object for which
they had left their native land, was too painful to be endured by the missionaries, and they
immediately attempted to gain permission to go to some country not under the company's jurisdiction.--Burmah,
the field to which they had been assigned by their brethren at home, seemed, for various reasons,
utterly inaccessible; but they finally got leave to take passage in a ship bound for the Isle
of France. The vessel would, however, accommodate but two passengers, and the health of Mrs.
Newell requiring that she should be in a place of quiet, it was agreed that she and her husband
should embark in it. For three months the rest of their company remained in Calcutta, watched
with jealousy by the British Government, but unable to find a vessel to convey them away. At
length they had peremptory orders to embark in a vessel bound to England. All hope of escape
seemed now cut off, when Mr. Judson accidentally learned that a ship was about sailing for
the Isle of France. They applied for a passport to go on board of her, but were refused. They
informed the captain of the vessel of their circumstances, and were allowed to go on board
without a pass. They had got but a few miles down the river, however, when a government despatch
overtook them, commanding the pilot to conduct the ship no further, as there were persons on
board who had been ordered to England.

By advice of the captain, the missionaries left the ship, and went on shore, while the pilot
wrote a certificate that no such persons were on board. The captain being angry at the detention
of his vessel, ordered them to take their baggage from it immediately, but at length consented
to let it remain on board until he should reach a tavern sixteen miles further down the river.
Mrs. Judson also remained in the ship until it came opposite the tavern, "where," she says,
"the pilot kindly lent me his boat and a servant to go on shore. I immediately procured a large
boat to send to the ship for our baggage. I entered the tavern a stranger, a female and unprotected.
I called for a room and sat down to reflect on my disconsolate situation. I had nothing with
me but a few rupees. I did not know that the boat which I had sent after the vessel would overtake
it, and if it did, whether it would ever return with our baggage; neither did I know where
Mr. Judson was, or when he would come, or with what treatment I should meet at the tavern.
I thought of home and said to myself, These are some of the trials attendant upon a missionary
life, and which I have anticipated. In a few hours Mr. J. arrived, and toward night our baggage."

After two or three days of great perplexity and distress, and when they had given up all hope
of being able to proceed to the Isle of France, they unexpectedly received from an unknown
friend a magistrate's pass to go on board the Creole, the vessel they had left. Their only
difficulty now was that she had probably got out to sea, as it was three days since they had
left her. However they hastened down the river seventy miles, to Saugur, where, among many
ships at anchor, they had the inexpressible happiness to find the Creole, on which they embarked
for the Isle of France, their first destination.

Their dangers on the passage to the Isle of France were great, the vessel being old and leaky;
and when they reached there, they found little encouragement to remain. While on the island,
Mrs. J. had a severe attack of illness, as well as much depression of spirits from the uncertainties
of their situation. After much deliberation they determined to establish themselves on an island
near Malacca, to reach which they must first go to Madras, and they accordingly sailed for
that place. War having broken out between England and America, the hostility of the East India
Directors to American missionaries was of course much increased, so that it would be impossible
for them to make any stop at all in Madras, without incurring the danger of being sent back
to America. What, then, was their distress on their arrival there, to find no ship bound for
the island they wished to visit! Their way seemed entirely hedged up, for the only vessel in
Madras harbor ready for sea, was destined to Burmah, a country pronounced by all their friends
in India, utterly inaccessible.

In her journal, at this time, Mrs. J. writes: "Oh, our heavenly Father, direct us aught! Where
wilt thou have us to go? What wilt thou have us to do? Our only hope is in thee, and to thee
only do we look for protection. Oh, let this mission live before thee!" "To-morrow," she adds,
at a somewhat later date, "we expect to embark for Rangoon, (in Burmah.) Adieu to polished,
refined, Christian society. Our lot is not cast among you, but among pagans, among barbarians,
whose tender mercies are cruel. Indeed, we voluntarily forsake you, and for Jesus' sake choose
the latter for our associates. O may we be prepared for the pure and polished society of heaven,
composed of the followers of the Lamb, whose robes have been washed in his blood!"

Everything combined to render the passage to Rangoon unpleasant and perilous;--sickness, threatened
shipwreck, and the want of all comforts;--but at length on the 14th of July, 1813, about eighteen
months from the time they left Salem, in Massachusetts, they set their 'weary, wandering feet'
on that shore which was to be their future home.

Among the depressing circumstances that had occurred in this gloomy period, not the least painful
was the death of Mrs. Judson's early friend, and companion in her eastern voyage, Mrs. Harriet
Newell. Of less mental and physical vigor than Mrs. Judson, this amiable and ardent Christian
had gladly relinquished all other objects in life, for that of sharing the privations and soothing
the cares of a husband to whom she was tenderly attached, in his labors among the heathen.
But this privilege was denied her; she was not even permitted to reach a scene of missionary
labor. Her heart-broken husband was compelled to bury her in a far distant isle of the ocean,
and finish his short earthly course alone. But he lived to see the grave of that young martyr
missionary visited by many pilgrim feet, and her name embalmed in many admiring hearts.

How keenly Mrs. Judson felt her loss, may be learned from a letter written from the Isle of
France, whither she and her husband went on being driven from Calcutta:--"Have at last arrived
in port; but oh, what news, what distressing news! Harriet is dead. Harriet, my dear friend,
my earliest associate in the mission, is no more. Oh death, could not this wide world afford
thee victims enough, but thou must enter the family of a solitary few whose comfort and happiness
depended so much on the society of each other? Could not this infant mission be shielded from
thy shafts!" "But be still, my heart, and know that God has done it. Just and true are thy
ways, oh thou King of saints!"

Another heavy trial, was the separation of herself and husband from the church in which they
were both educated, from the missionary association on which they depended for support, and
from the sympathies of those Christians in their native land who had hitherto given them the
most cordial encouragement in their enterprise. This separation was in consequence of a change
in their sentiments in regard to baptism. So liberal has the church become at this day, that
all now look upon this change as having decidedly advanced the cause of missions by enlisting
a large and respectable body of Christians in this country, not hitherto engaged in it. But
in 1813, a step like this on the part of beneficiaries of the Board, could not but be regarded
with much disfavor and prejudice, render those who had taken it highly unpopular, and even
subject their motives to unworthy imputations. Whatever may be thought of the soundness of
their new views, therefore, there is not the shadow of a reason to doubt their conscientiousness
in adopting them. That they did it in the face of every worldly motive, their letters and journals
abundantly prove. Mrs. Judson writes: "It is extremely trying to reflect on the consequences
of our becoming Baptists. We must make some very painful sacrifices." "We must be separated
from our dear missionary associates, and labor alone in some isolated spot. We must expect
to be treated with contempt, and to be cast off by many of our American friends--forfeit the
character we have in our native land, and probably have to labor for our own support wherever
we are stationed." "These things are very trying to us, and cause our hearts to bleed for anguish--we
feel that we have no home in this world, and no friend but each other." "A renunciation of
our former sentiments has caused us more pain than anything which ever happened to us through
our lives."

Thus "perplexed but not in despair, cast down but not destroyed," they reached Rangoon, then
the capital of the Burman Empire, and established themselves in what they regarded as their
future home. Here, "remote, unfriended" and solitary--"reft of every stay but Heaven"--they
were destined to pass nearly two years, before their hearts could be cheered by the intelligence
from America, of the general interest awakened for them there in the denomination with which
they had connected themselves; and the formation of a Baptist Board of Missions, which had
appointed them its Missionaries. Of one thing, however, they must have felt sure, that they
were conducted there by the special providence of God. The honor of commencing the Burman Mission,
says Prof. Gammell, "is to be ascribed rather to the Divine Head of the Church, than to any
leading movement or agency of the Baptist denomination. The way was prepared and the field
was opened by God alone, and it only remained for true-hearted laborers to enter in and prosecute
the noble work to which they had been summoned."

The Burman Empire being thus the place to which the feet of the first "bringers of good tidings"
from America were so signally directed, and having been now, for nearly forty years, missionary
ground of the most interesting character, it is proper to pause here and give something more
than a passing glance at its natural features, its government and religion, and the character
of its population. For information on these points we are indebted chiefly to the researches
of the Rev. Howard Malcom.

Burmah, or the Burman Empire, lies between the Salwen river on the east, and the Burrampooter
on the northwest and north, while its western and southern shores are washed by the great bay
of Bengal, which separates it from the peninsula of Hindustan. Besides the noble rivers which
form its eastern and north-western boundaries, its entire length from north to south is traversed
by the Irrawaddy, which after a course of 1200 miles, empties by many mouths into the Bay of
Bengal. Its territory is generally so much elevated above the level of the sea, that it enjoys,
though in the torrid zone, a comparatively salubrious and temperate climate. The heat is rarely
excessive; while winter in our sense of the word, is unknown.

"The general features of a country so extensive are, of course, widely diversified. It may
be said of it as a whole, in the language of Dr. Hamilton, that in fertility, beauty and grandeur
of scenery, and in the variety, value, and elegance of its natural productions, it is equalled
by few on earth."

In the parts of the country lying near the sea there are two seasons, the wet and the dry.
About the 10th of May showers commence, and increase in frequency, until, in the latter part
of June, it begins to rain almost daily, and this continues until the middle of September.
Heavy rains then cease, but showers continue, diminishing in frequency until the middle of
October, when "the air is cool, the country verdant, fruits innumerable, and everything in
nature gives delight." Even in the rainy season, the sun shines out a part of the day, so that
the rankest vegetation covers everything; even walls and buildings, unless smoothly coated
with plaster, are not exempt from grass and weeds. Of the climate during the warmest portion
of the year, Dr. Malcom thus writes: "I have now passed the ordeal of the entire hot season,
and of nothing am I more convinced, both from experience and observation, than that the climate
is as salubrious and pleasant as any other in the world. I have suffered much more from heat
in Italy, and even in Philadelphia, than I have ever done here; and have never found a moment
when I could not be perfectly comfortable by sitting still. To go abroad at mid-day, is, however,
for any but natives, eminently hazardous."

The soil, in the maritime provinces, is represented as unsurpassed in fertility, and under
the imperfect cultivation of the natives, yields from eighty to a hundred fold, and sometimes more.

The heights are crowned with forests, while the low lands are jungle, that is, "a region of
many trees, but scattered; with much undergrowth;" and the haunt of tigers and other wild animals.

The fruit-trees are numerous, and of names and kinds unknown in America. There is found the
mangosteen, with a fruit said by travellers to be the most delicious in the world; the noble
mango, growing to the height of one hundred feet, and of vast diameter, and bearing as great
a variety of delicious fruit as the apple-tree does with us; the cocoa-nut, whose fruit we
are acquainted with, and whose husk is formed into excellent cordage; the plantain, that invaluable
blessing to the natives of the torrid zone, as it supplies them bread without much labor; a
circumstance of importance in countries where hard labor is oppressive by reason of heat; the
splendid tamarind, with wide-spreading limbs, and a dense foliage of vivid green, among which
appear clusters of beautiful yellow flowers, delicately veined with red, and the long shining
pods which contain the fruit; the custard-apple, with its pulpy fruit contained in a husk resembling
the pineapple in shape; and the curious palmyra, whose leaves furnish the natives with paper,
while its trunk yields a liquor much prized by them as drink, and capable of being boiled down
into sugar, like the juice of our maple.

Hundreds of other trees might be named, many valuable for their fruit, others for their timber,
and some for both. Most of the trees are evergreen, that is, few of them shed their leaves
annually and at once; but a constant succession of leaves makes the forest always verdant.

Besides the fruits which grow upon trees, there is a variety of others such as berries, tomatoes,
pineapples, &c.; and among roots are found the ginger, licorice, arrow-root, sweet-potatoe,
Irish potatoe, asparagus, ground-nut, &c. The country abounds in flowers of most splendid colors,
but generally deficient in fragrance; though some have a fine perfume.

The favorite food of the country being rice, this is, of course, the grain most extensively
cultivated. There are no farms as with us; cultivators of the soil always reside in villages,
for mutual protection against wild beasts and robbers. Each family cultivates a patch of the
neighboring jungle, and brings the produce into the village, where the cattle are also brought
for security. Besides rice, they cultivate wheat, Indian-corn, sugar-cane, millet and indigo;
but generally in a slovenly and unskilful manner. In the dry season, the land is watered by
artificial means, some of which are quite ingenious.

Of animals there is, of course, a vast variety, one of the most useful of which is the buffalo,
which is used to draw their carriages, as well as to perform the labor that the ox does with
us. Elephants are the property of the king, but great men are allowed to keep them.

The birds in Burmah, though of gay plumage, have little melody in their song; splendid as they
are, we would scarce exchange for them our cheerful robin and merry bobolink.

Reptiles and insects, though numerous, are not so troublesome or so venomous as in many parts
of the torrid zone. The white ant is perhaps as destructive as any other insect, and the greatest
precaution hardly preserves one from its intrusion.

The Burmans are, as a race, superior to the Hindoos, being more athletic and vigorous, and
more lively and industrious. They are less tall than Americans, their complexions dark, their
noses flat, and their lips thick and full. The hair is very abundant, black and glossy, but
generally rather coarse. "Men tie it in a knot on the top of the head, and intertwine it with
the turban. Women turn it all back, and without a comb, form it into a graceful knot behind,
frequently adding chaplets of fragrant natural flowers strung on a thread. Both sexes take
great pains with their hair, frequently washing it with a substance which has the properties
of soap, and keeping it anointed with sweet oil."

The custom of blacking the teeth is almost universal. When asked the reason of this custom,
the answer is, "What! should we have white teeth like a dog or a monkey?"

Smoking and chewing are also universal. Malcom says, "I have seen little creatures of two or
three years, stark naked, tottering about with a lighted cigar in their mouth." Tobacco is
not used alone for these purposes, but mixed with several other substances.

The dress of the men is a cotton cloth about four and a half yards long, covering, when the
man is not at work, nearly the whole body in a graceful manner. A jacket, with sleeves generally
of white muslin but often of broadcloth or velvet, is sometimes added, especially among the
higher classes. On the feet, when dressed, are worn sandals of wood or cowhide, covered with
cloth, and held on by straps, one of which passes over the instep, the other over the great
toe. On entering a house, these are always left at the door.

Women wear a temine, or petticoat, of cotton or silk, lined with muslin, extending from the
arm-pits to the ankles. Over this is sometimes worn a jacket, open in front with close, long
sleeves. Both sexes wear ornaments in the ears. Men wear mustachios, but pluck out the beard
with tweezers. Women, in order to render their complexions more fair, rub over the face a delicate
yellow powder; and they occasionally stain the nails of the fingers and toes with a scarlet
pigment. All ranks are exceedingly fond of flowers, and display great taste in arranging them.

The houses are made of timbers, or bamboos, set in the earth, with lighter pieces fastened
transversely. The sides are covered, some with mats, more or less substantial and costly, others
with thatch, fastened with split ratans. The roof is very ingeniously made and fastened on,
and is a perfect security against wind and rain. The floor is of split cane, elevated a few
feet from the earth, which secures ventilation and cleanliness. The windows and doors are of
mat, strengthened with a frame of bamboo, and strongly fastened at the top. When open they
are propped up with a bamboo, and form a shade. Of course, there are no chimneys. Cooking is
done on a shallow box a yard square, filled with earth.

We must not judge of the architectural skill of the people by their private houses. A Burman
conceals his wealth with as much care as we exhibit ours, for a display of it only subjects
him to extortion from the officers of government. Malcom describes some of their zayats, pagodas
and bridges, especially in and near Ava, as truly noble.

Rice may be said to be the universal food. It is generally eaten with a nice curry, and sauces
of various vegetables are added. Wheat is not made into bread by the natives, but boiled like
rice. Its name in Burmah is "foreigner's rice," which shows it is not native to the country.

       *       *       *       *       *

The natural good traits of the Burman character are almost rendered nugatory by their religion,
and the oppressive nature of their government. The latter is an absolute despotism. The king
has a nominal council with whom he may advise, but whose advice he may, if he chooses, treat
with utter contempt. It is not, however, the direct oppression of the monarch that causes most
suffering among his subjects. It is rather that of the inferior officers of government whose
rapacity and extortion renders property, liberty, and life itself insecure. Deceit, fraud and
lying are the natural, if not necessary consequences of a system which leaves the people entirely
at the mercy of those who bear rule over them.

The religion is Buddhism, one of the most ancient and wide-spread superstitions existing on
the face of the earth. Its sacred Divinity, or Buddh, is Gaudama, who has passed into a state
of eternal and unconscious repose, which they consider the summit of felicity; but which seems
to us to differ little from annihilation. Images of this god are the chief objects of worship.
These are found in every house, and are enshrined in pagodas and temples, and in sacred caves
which appear to have been used from time immemorial for religious purposes. The wealth and
labor bestowed on the latter show how great the population must have been in former ages. Dr.
Malcom describes one cave on the Salwen, which is wholly filled with images of every size,
while the whole face of the mountain for ninety feet above the cave is incrusted with them.
"On every jutting crag stands some marble image covered with gold, and spreading its uncouth
proportions to the setting sun. Every recess is converted into shrines for others. But imposing
as is this spectacle, it shrinks into insignificance compared with the scene presented on entering
the cavern itself. It is of vast size, and needs no human art to render it sublime. The eye
is confused and the heart appalled at the prodigious exhibition of infatuation and folly. Everywhere--on
the floor, over head and on every jutting point, are crowded together images of Gaudama--the
offerings of successive ages. A ship of five hundred tons could not carry away the half of them."

Pagodas are innumerable. In the inhabited parts there is scarcely a peak, bank, or swelling
hill, uncrowned by one of these structures. In general, they are almost solid, without door
or window, and contain some supposed relic of Gaudama.

The religious system of the Burmans contains many excellent moral precepts and maxims, which,
however being without sanction or example, are utterly powerless to mould the character of
the people to wisdom or virtue.

A curious feature of Buddhism is, that one of the highest motives it presents to its followers
is the "obtaining of merit." Merit is obtained by avoiding sins, such as theft, lying, intoxication,
and the like; and by practising virtues and doing good works. The most meritorious of all good
works is to make an idol; the next to build a pagoda. It confers high merit, also, to build
a zayat, to transcribe the sacred books, to erect any useful public edifice, to dig public
wells, or to plant shade or fruit-trees by the wayside. If they give alms, or treat animals
kindly, or repeat prayers, or do any other good deed, they do it entirely with this mercenary
view of obtaining merit. This "merit" is not so much to procure them happiness in another world,
as to secure them from suffering in their future transmigrations in this; for they believe
that the soul of one who dies without having laid up any merit, will have to pass into the
body of some mean reptile or insect, and from that to another, through hundreds of changes,
perhaps, before it will be allowed again to take the form of man.

This reliance on 'merit,' and certainty of obtaining it through prescribed methods, fosters
their conceit, so that ignorant and debased as they are, "there is scarcely a nation more offensively
proud." It also renders them entirely incapable of doing or appreciating a disinterested action,
or of feeling such a sentiment as gratitude. If you do them a favor, they suppose you do it
to obtain merit for yourself, and of course feel no obligation to you; the simple phrase, "I
thank you," is unknown in their language.

Like the ancient Romans, the Burmans believe in dreams, omens, and unlucky days; observe the
flight and feeding of fowls, the howl of dogs, and the aspect of the stars; they regard the
lines in the hand, the knots in trees, and a thousand other fortuitous circumstances, and by
these allow their actions to be governed.

The priesthood in Burmah is arranged into a regular hierarchy. The highest functionary is a
kind of archbishop, who presides over all the other priests in the empire, and appoints the
presidents of the monasteries. He resides at the imperial court, where he has a high rank,
and is considered one of the greatest men in the kingdom. Below him are various ranks of priests,
each having his appointed sphere and appropriate duties, and all supported by the so-called
voluntary contributions of the people. The number of priests is exceedingly great, and their
sway over the minds of the people almost unlimited.

"But great and potent as the priests of Buddh are," says a writer in the Foreign Quarterly
Review, "there is a kind of sacred personage still greater than the highest of them, and next
in rank to the sovereign; this is no other than that diseased animal, the White Elephant, far
more highly venerated here than in Siam. The creature is supposed by the Burmans to lodge within
its carcass a blessed soul of some human being, which has arrived at the last stage of the
many millions of transmigrations it was doomed to undergo, and which, when it escapes, will
be absorbed into the essence of the Deity." This most sacred personage has a regular cabinet
composed of a prime minister, secretary of state, transmitter of intelligence, &c., possesses
estates in various parts of the country, and receives handsome presents from foreign ambassadors.
His residence is contiguous to the royal palace, and connected with it by a long open gallery,
at the further end of which a curtain of black velvet embossed with gold, conceals his august
person from vulgar eyes. His dwelling is a lofty hall splendidly gilded, and supported by sixty-four
pillars, to four of which he is chained with massive silver chains. His bed is a thick mattress,
covered with blue cloth, over which is a softer one of crimson silk. His trappings are magnificent,
being gold, studded with diamonds, sapphires, rubies, and other precious stones; his betel-box,
spittoon, and the vessel out of which he feeds, are of gold inlaid with precious stones. His
attendants, according to Hamilton, from whom we take a part of this description, amount to
over a thousand persons.

"Buddhism in its moral precepts is perhaps the best religion ever invented by man. The difficulty
is, its entire basis is false. It is a religion of Atheism. Instead of a Heavenly Father forgiving
sin, and filial service from a pure heart, as the effect of love--it presents nothing to love,
for its Deity is dead; nothing as the ultimate object of action but self; and nothing for man's
highest and holiest ambition but annihilation."

"Their doctrine of merit, leaves no place for holiness, and destroys gratitude either to God
or man." It also ministers to the grossest pride, for the very fact of his being now a man,
assures the Buddhist that in numberless former unremembered transmigrations, he must have acquired
incalculable merit, or he would not now occupy so distinguished a rank in the scale of being.

Their system of balancing evil with good, reduces all sin to a thing of little importance.
"If any man sin" in Burmah, his religion tells him of no "advocate with the Father" on whose
altar he may lay the tribute of a believing, penitent, obedient and grateful heart; but instead,
it tells him he may repeat a form of words, he may feed a priest, he may build a pagoda, he
may carve an idol, and thus balance his iniquity with merit. If any man suffer in Burmah, his
religion points him to no place where "the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at
rest," and where "God himself will wipe away all tears from all faces;" but it dictates a proud
submission to unalterable fate, and flatters him that his sufferings here may purchase immunity
from torment in some unknown future existence; and finally if any man die, in Burmah, his religion
tells him of no Saviour who has "passed through the grave and blessed the bed," and "swallowed
up death in victory;" but it threatens degradation, perhaps into a soulless brute; or at best,
a place of expiatory misery;--in short, "living or dying," the Burman may be said emphatically
to be "without hope, and without God in the world."

Such was the stupendous system of superstition and ignorance, which two feeble missionaries
armed like David when he met the Philistine with "trust in the Lord his God," ventured to attack,
and hoped to subdue.

CHAPTER V.

RANGOON; LETTERS FROM MRS. JUDSON.

Rangoon, one of the chief seaports of the Burman Empire, situated on one of the numerous mouths
of the Irrawaddy, and having a splendid harbor, is yet one of the meanest, and most uninteresting
cities that can well be imagined. It is situated in a flat, marshy plain, and is merely a vast
collection of bamboo huts, with narrow streets, and here and there an ugly building of brick
or wood, and would give a stranger a most unfavorable impression of the noble country to which
it is the entrance.

On their arrival at this city, Mr. and Mrs. Judson took up their abode in a deserted mission-house
just outside the wall, which had formerly been occupied by some Baptist missionaries from Serampore.
The house was large and not unsuited to the climate, but unfinished and comfortless. However,
it had a garden full of flowers and fruit-trees, and the scenery around it was rural and pleasant.
Here they found one Christian female, the only person remaining of the former mission family,
and she was a native of the country. Mrs. Judson's peculiar trials and encouragements at this
time will be best learned by extracts from her letters and journal.

July 30, 1813, she writes: "We felt very gloomy and dejected the first night we arrived, in
view of our prospects; but we were enabled to lean on God, and to feel that he was able to
support us under the most discouraging circumstances.

"The next morning I prepared to go on shore, but hardly knew how I should get to Mr. Carey's
house; it was, however, concluded that I should be carried in an arm-chair; consequently, when
I landed one was provided, through which were put two bamboos, and four of the natives took
me on their shoulders. When they had carried me a little way into the town, they set me down
under a shade, when great numbers of the natives gathered round, having seldom seen an English
female. Being sick and weak, I held my head down, which induced many of the native females
to come very near, and look under my bonnet. At this I looked up and smiled, on which they
set up a loud laugh. They again took me up to carry, and the multitude of natives gave a shout
which much diverted us. They next carried me to a place they call the custom-house. It was
a small open shed, in which were seated on mats, several natives, who were the custom-house
officers. After searching Mr. Judson very closely, they asked liberty for a native female to
search me, to which I readily consented. I was then brought to the mission-house, where I have
nearly recovered my health."

"July 22.--It is now a week since we arrived here. My health is quite restored, and I feel
much more contented and happy than I ever expected to be in such a situation. I think I enjoy
the promises of God in a higher degree than ever before, and have attained more true peace
of mind and trust in the Saviour. When I look back to my late situation in that wretched old
vessel, without any accommodations--scarcely the necessaries of life--no physician--no female
attendants--so weak that I could not move--I hope I am deeply sensible of the kind care of
my heavenly Father in carrying me safely through the peculiar dangers of the voyage, and giving
me once more a resting-place on land.

"Still, were it not for the support we derive from the gospel of Jesus, we should be ready
to sink down in despondency in view of the dark and gloomy scenes around us. But when we recollect
that Jesus has commanded his disciples to carry the gospel to the heathen, and promised to
be with them to the end of the world; that God has promised to give the heathen to his Son
for an inheritance, we are encouraged to make a beginning, though in the midst of discouragement,
and leave it to Him to grant success in his own time and way."

"I find here no female friends with whom I can unite in social prayer, nor even one with whom
I can converse. I have, indeed, no society at all except that of Mr. Judson, yet I feel happy
in thinking that I gave up this source of pleasure, as well as most others, for the sake of
the poor heathen."

In her journal we find the following sentiment: "Though we find ourselves almost destitute
of all those sources of enjoyment to which we have been accustomed, and are in the midst of
a people who are at present almost destitute on account of the scarcity of provisions[2]; though
we are exposed to robbers by night and invaders by day, yet we both unite in saying that we
never were happier, never more contented in any situation than the present. We feel that this
is the post to which God hath appointed us; that we are in the path of duty; and though surrounded
with danger and death, we feel that God can with infinite ease, preserve and support us under
the most heavy sufferings.

"Oh, if it may please the dear Redeemer to make me instrumental of leading some of the females
of Burmah to a saving acquaintance with Him, my great object will be accomplished, my highest
desires gratified, I shall rejoice to have relinquished my comforts, my country and my home."
"Oh Lord, here I am; thou hast brought me to this heathen land, and given me desires to labor
for thee. Do with me what pleaseth thee. Make me useful or not as seemeth good in thy sight.
But oh, let my soul live before thee; let me serve none but thee; let me have no object in
life but the promotion of thy glory."

"Aug. 15.--I have begun to study the language. Find it very hard and difficult, having none
of the usual helps in acquiring a language, except a small part of a grammar, and six chapters
of St. Matthew's Gospel by Mr. Carey, now at Ava."

"Aug. 28.--Have been writing letters this week to my dear friends in America. Found that a
recollection of former enjoyments in my own native country, made my situation here appear less
tolerable. The thought that I had parents, sisters, and beloved friends still in existence,
and at such a distance that it was impossible to obtain one look or exchange a word, was truly
painful. While they are still in possession of the comforts I once enjoyed, I am an exile from
my country and my father's house, deprived of all society and every friend but one, and with
scarcely the necessaries of life. These privations would not be endured with patience in any
other cause but that in which we are engaged. But since it is thy cause, blessed Jesus, we
rejoice that thou didst give us so many enjoyments to sacrifice, and madest it so plainly our
duty to forsake all in order to bring thy truth to the benighted heathen. We would not resign
our work, but live contented with our lot, and live to Thee."

"Sept. 5.--Yes, I do feel thankful that God has brought me to this heathen land, and placed
me in a situation peculiarly calculated to make me feel my dependence on him and my constant
need of the influences of the Holy Spirit. I enjoy more in reading the Scriptures, and in secret
prayer than for years before; and the prosperity of this mission, and the conversion of this
people, lie with weight on my mind, and draw forth my heart in constant intercession. And I
do confidently believe that God will visit this land with Gospel light, that these idol temples
will be demolished, and temples for the worship of the living God be erected in their stead."

Let us here pause for a moment and contemplate the picture brought by these words before our
imagination. Let us survey the scene in which the lonely missionary penned this prediction.
A vast country not waste and uninhabited, but enriched by the partial sun with every natural
gift to cheer the sense and gratify the taste of man; swarming with human beings endowed with
capacities for advancement in knowledge, and virtue, and temporal enjoyment, as well as for
immortal happiness; yet who, having said in their heart there is no God 'that minds the affairs
of men,' have built up for themselves a fabric of absurd superstitions, and unmeaning rites,
and senseless formalities, to which they cling with a stubbornness that nothing but the power
of God can subdue; on such a shore are cast by the providence of God two 'pilgrim strangers,'
not endowed with apostolic gifts; not able to control disease, or raise the dead, or even to
speak in a foreign tongue without long and patient and assiduous study to acquire it; and yet
with a simple and sublime faith in the clear and sure word of their master, "Go--preach my
Gospel--lo, I am with you," these pilgrim strangers can CONFIDENTLY BELIEVE that God will visit
this land with gospel light, and that those gilded fanes which now glisten in the morning and
evening sun, on every hill-top, will fall, and those poor idolaters will say, "What have we
to do any more with idols?" "our trust is in the name of the Lord that made heaven and earth."

In one of the last paragraphs of her private journal which has been preserved, dated Oct. 8th
of the same year, she says: "To-day I have been into the town, and I was surprised at the multitude
of people with which the streets are filled. Their countenances are intelligent; and they appear
to be capable under the influence of the Gospel, of becoming a valuable and respectable people.
But at present their situation is truly deplorable, for they are given to every sin. Lying
is so universal among them that they say, 'we cannot live without telling lies.' They believe
the most absurd notions imaginable. My teacher told me the other day, that when he died he
would go to my country; I shook my head, and told him he would not; but he laughed, and said
he would. I did not understand the language sufficiently to tell him where he would go, or
how he could be saved. Oh thou Light of the world, dissipate the thick darkness that covers
Burmah. Display thy grace and power among the Burmans--subdue them to thyself, and make them
thy chosen people."

Those who have acquired a modern European language with the aid of grammars, dictionaries,
and other suitable books, can scarcely estimate the labor of learning without such aids, such
a language as the Burman. In fact Mr. Judson thinks more progress can be made in the French
in a few months, than in the Burman in two years. Mrs. Judson took the whole management of
family affairs on herself, in order to leave her husband at liberty to prosecute his studies
and the consequence was, that being obliged constantly to use all the Burman she knew, in her
intercourse with servants, traders, and others, her progress was more rapid than his.

One cause of difficulty in learning their language was that their books were made of palm-leaves,
marked or engraved with an iron style or pen, without ink. We who are accustomed to clear characters
on paper can hardly imagine the difficulty of tracing out these obscure scratches on the dried
palm-leaves. Another was that in writing, "their words are not fairly divided like ours by
breaks, and points, and capitals, but run together in a long continuous line, a sentence or
paragraph seeming like one long word." Another difficulty was, that in their idiom, a great
variety of verbs must be used to express one action, either as performed by persons of different
rank, or as done under different circumstances. Thus there are three or four ways to speak
of eating rice, sleeping, dying, &c. one of which is always used of the king, another of priests,
another of rulers, and another of common persons, and it would be an insult to use a phrase
lower than one is entitled to. Again, for our term to wash, for instance, there are many words;
one is used for to wash the face, another, the hands, another, linen, another, dishes, &c.
They have in their language eleven vowels and thirty-three consonants, but of these there are
so many combinations, that about one thousand characters must be used in printing. Printing,
however, was unknown to the Burmans until our missionaries introduced it.

As no progress at all could be made in their missionary labors until the language was mastered,
they applied themselves cheerfully and diligently to its acquisition.

An interesting incident is related by Mrs. Judson under date of Dec. 11th, 1813, her first
visit to the wife of a man in power. "To-day for the first time I have visited the wife of
the Viceroy. I was introduced to her by a French lady who has frequently visited her. When
we first arrived at the government house, she was not up, consequently we had to wait some
time. But the inferior wives of the Viceroy diverted us much by their curiosity, in minutely
examining everything we had on, and by trying on our gloves, bonnets, &c. At last her Highness
made her appearance, richly dressed in the Burman fashion, with a long silver pipe in her mouth,
smoking. At her appearance all the other wives took their seats at a respectful distance, and
sat in a crouching posture without speaking. She received me very politely, took me by the
hand, seated me upon a mat and herself by me. One of the women brought her a bunch of flowers,
of which she took several and ornamented my cap. She was very inquisitive whether I had a husband
and children, whether I was my husband's first wife,--meaning by this whether I was the highest
among them, supposing that Mr. Judson, like the Burmans, had many wives; and whether I intended
tarrying long in the country.

"When the Viceroy came in I really trembled, for I never before beheld such a savage-looking
creature. His long robe and enormous spear not a little increased my dread. He spoke to me,
however, very condescendingly, and asked whether I would drink some rum or wine. When I arose
to go, her highness took my hand again, told me she was happy to see me, and that I must come
to see her every day. She led me to the door, I made my salam and departed.

"My object in visiting her was, that if we should go into any difficulty with the Burmans,
I could have access to her, when perhaps it would not be possible for Mr. Judson to have an
audience with the Viceroy."

In pursuing his study of the language, Mr. Judson had fortunately secured as a teacher a Burman
of more than ordinary intelligence, and who had a perfect knowledge of the grammatical construction
of the Burman dialect, and also of the Pali, or language of the sacred books. Day after day
he sat with his teacher in the open verandah which surrounded their dwelling, reading, writing,
and talking, joined by Mrs. Judson in every interval she could spare from family cares, and
thus were they fitting themselves to teach to the poor idolaters the new religion. Nor did
they neglect such opportunities of doing good as presented themselves even then; but every
effort to inculcate their sentiments was met with the objection, "Your religion is good for
you, ours for us." "You will be rewarded for your good deeds in your way, we in our way." They
found they had to deal with one of the proudest and most conceited races on earth. Their very
religion, as we have before said, encourages this conceit, by leading them constantly to make
"a merit" of their good actions, or what they suppose such; while it inculcates neither contrition
nor penitence. The peculiar doctrines of Christianity, its justification through the merits
of another, its humility and charity, were in the last degree opposed to the character of the
Burman race. The missionaries were made daily more sensible that the Spirit of God must come
"with power," before the truth could ever enter those darkened understandings. Prayer was therefore
their only reliance, as it was their only comfort.

But even this enjoyment, as far as it was social, was soon broken in upon by the increasing
illness of Mrs. Judson, which obliged her to try the effect of a change of scene and climate.
She could not think of taking Mr. Judson from his labors, and therefore embarked alone in January,
1815, for Madras. We may imagine the joy experienced by the missionary, thus left behind, on
receiving during her absence letters from this country, containing an account of the general
movement in America in favor of the Mission, and the formation of the Baptist General Convention.
His heart overflowed with gratitude, and the thought that though he had no friend near him,
there were yet hundreds in his native land praying and laboring in the same cause, inspired
him with new zeal in his beloved enterprise.

Mrs. Judson's journey, though solitary, was prosperous and successful. Friends appeared for
her where she least expected them. The influence of her engaging person and winning manners
is observable in one obliging attention she received even from strangers. The Viceroy appointed
a woman to accompany her free of expense; the captain refused money for her passage; and the
physician at Madras, from whom she had received visits for six weeks, returned the fee which
she sent him, saying he was happy if he had been of service to her. Her health being perfectly
restored she returned to Rangoon after an absence of three months, and "on the 11th of September,
was made the happy mother of a little son." She soon resumed her studies, and though she saw
little other result of her labors, was cheered by noticing that she and her husband were gradually
gaining the confidence of the natives, who, as she says, would say to each other "that they
need not be afraid to trust us, for we do not tell falsehoods as the Burmans do." The indolent
and deceitful Burmans saw with surprise that these two Christians always kept themselves busily
employed, and paid every debt they contracted with strict punctuality. Thus was laid the foundation
of respect for the new religion.

In a letter which Mrs. Judson wrote to her sisters in December, 1815, she says: "Doubtless
you expect by this time that some of the Burmans have embraced the Christian religion, or at
least are seriously inquiring respecting it." "But you cannot imagine how very difficult it
is to give them any idea of the true God and the way of salvation by Christ, since their present
ideas of Deity are so very low." "They have not the least idea of a Divinity who is eternal,
without beginning or end. All their deities have been through the several grades of creatures,
from a fowl to a God...." "They know of no other atonement for sin, than offerings to their
priests or their pagodas."

She goes on to mention some instances of serious inquiry among the people, which from time
to time had raised their hopes, only to dash them again by the relapse of the inquirers into
indifference; but adds "These things do not discourage us. It is God alone who can effectually
impress the mind with divine truths; and though seed may lie buried long in the dust, yet at
some future period it may spring up and bear fruit to the glory of God."

In this letter she gives an account of the recall of the Viceroy from Rangoon to Ava, the imperial
residence, and the consequent confusion of the people, ten thousand of whom accompanied him
to Ava. She regretted his departure, as both he and his lady had ever treated her with civility
and kindness. The newly appointed Viceroy was a stranger, and might not be equally kind to them.

She says, "Oh how I long to visit Bradford; to spend a few evenings by your firesides, in telling
you what I have seen and heard. Alas! we have no fireside, no social circle. We are still alone
in this miserable country, surrounded by thousands ignorant of the true God." ... "But we still
feel happy in our employment, and have reason to thank God that he has brought us here. We
do hope to live to see the Scriptures translated into the Burman language, and a church formed
from among these idolaters."

Her next letter details "with all the pathos of a mother's sorrow," a new trial to which they
were called by Him, who though "clouds and darkness are about him" yet "doeth all things well."

"May 7th, 1816.--My dear Parents,--Little did I think when I wrote you last, that my next letter
would be filled with the melancholy subject upon which I must now write. Death, regardless
of our lonely situation has entered our dwelling, and made one of the happiest of families
wretched. Our little Roger Williams, our only little darling boy, was three days ago laid in
the silent grave. Eight months we enjoyed the precious little gift, in which time he had so
completely entwined himself around his parents' hearts that his existence seemed necessary
to their own. But God has taught us by affliction, what we would not learn by mercies--that
our hearts are his exclusive property, and whatever rival intrudes, he will tear it away."

"He was a remarkably pleasant child--never cried except when in pain, and what we often observed
to each other was the most singular, he never during his little existence manifested the least
anger or resentment at anything. This was not owing to the want of intellect, for his tender
feelings of sensibility were very conspicuous. Whenever I or his father, passed his cradle
without taking him, he would follow us with his eyes to the door, when they would fill with
tears, his countenance so expressive of grief, though perfectly silent, that it would force
us back to him, which would cause his little heart to be as joyful as it had before been sorrowful.
He would lie hours on a mat by his papa's study-table, or by the side of his chair on the floor,
if he could only see his face. When we had finished study or the business of the day, it was
our exercise and amusement to carry him round the house or garden, and though we were alone,
we felt not our solitude when he was with us." ...

Her account of his last sickness and death follows, and she adds: "Thus died our little Roger:

    'Short pain, short grief, dear babe, was thine--
    Now joys eternal and divine.'

We buried him in the afternoon of the same day, in a little enclosure, the other side of the
garden. Forty or fifty Burmans and Portuguese followed with his afflicted parents the last
remains to the silent grave. All the Burmans who were acquainted with us, tried to sympathize
with us and console us under our loss." ... "We do not feel a disposition to murmur, or inquire
of our Sovereign why he has done this. We wish rather to sit down submissively under the rod
and bear the smart, till the end for which the affliction was sent shall be accomplished. Our
hearts were bound up in this child; we felt he was our earthly all, our only source of innocent
recreation in this heathen land. But God saw it was necessary to remind us of our error and
strip us of our little all. Oh may it not be in vain that he has done it. May we so improve
it that he will stay his hand and say, 'It is enough.'" A while after this she writes: "Since
worship I have stolen away to a much loved spot, where I love to sit and pay the tribute of
affection to my lost, darling child. It is a little enclosure of mango-trees, in the centre
of which is erected a small bamboo house, on a rising spot of ground, which looks down on the
new-made grave of our infant boy. Here I now sit, and though all nature around wears a most
delightful, and romantic appearance, yet my heart is sad, and my tears frequently stop my pen.
You, my dear Mrs. L. who are a mother, may imagine my sensations, but if you have never lost
a first born, an only son, you can never know my pain. Had you even buried your little boy,
you are in a Christian country, surrounded by friends and relatives, who could soothe your
anguish and direct your attention to other objects. But behold us, solitary and alone, with
this one source of recreation! Yet this is denied us, this must be removed, to show us that
we need no other source of enjoyment but God himself.

"Do not think though I write thus, that I repine at the dealings of Providence. No! though
he slay me yet will I trust in him!... Though I say with the Prophet, Behold and see if there
be any sorrow like unto my sorrow, yet I would also say, It is of the Lord's mercies that we
are not consumed because his compassions fail not. God is the same when he afflicts, as when
he is merciful, just as worthy of our entire trust and confidence now, as when he entrusted
us with the precious little gift. There is a bright side even to this heavy affliction."

The following tender and beautiful effusion was written by the Rev. J. Lawson of the Serampore
Mission and presented to Mrs. Judson on this occasion. As it has not been published in former
notices of Mrs. J. we take pleasure in inserting it here.

    "Hush'd be the murmuring thought! Thy will be done
    O Arbiter of life and death. I bow
    To thy command--I yield the precious gift
    So late bestowed; and to the silent grave
    Move sorrowing, yet submissive. O sweet babe!
    I lay thee down to rest--the cold, cold earth
    A pillow for thy little head. Sleep on,
    Serene in death. No care shall trouble thee.
    All undisturbed thou slumberest; far more still
    Than when I lulled thee in my lap, and sooth'd
    Thy little sorrows till they ceased....
    Then felt thy mother peace; her heart was light
    As the sweet sigh that 'scaped thy placid lips,
    And joyous as the dimpled smile that played
    Across thy countenance.--O I must weep
    To think of thee, dear infant, on my knees
    Untroubled sleeping. Bending o'er thy form,
    I watch'd with eager hope to catch the laugh
    First waking from thy sparkling eye, a beam
    Lovely to me as the blue light of heaven.
    Dimm'd in death's agony, it beams no more!

    Oh yet once more I kiss thy marble lips,
    Sweet babe I and press with mine thy whitened cheeks.
    Farewell, a long farewell!--Yet visit me
    In dreams, my darling; though the visioned joy
    Wake bitter pangs, still be thou in my thoughts
    And I will cherish the dear dream, and think
    I still possess thee. Peace, my bursting heart!
    O I submit. Again I lay thee down,
    Dear relic of a mother's hope. Thy spirit,
    Now mingled with cherubic hosts, adores
    That grace that ransomed it, and lodg'd it safe
    Above the stormy scene."

She then gives an interesting account of a visit paid them by the wife of the Viceroy, who
on hearing of the death of the 'little white child' as she called him, came to condole with
his parents. She was attended by about two hundred of her officers of state and members of
her household, expressed great sympathy in Mrs. Judson's affliction, and reproached her for
not having sent her word that she might have come to the funeral. Mrs. Judson says, "I regaled
her with tea, sweetmeats, and cakes, with which she seemed much pleased." She adds, "I sometimes
have good opportunities of communicating religious truths to the women in the government-house,
and hope I shall have an opportunity of conversing with the wife of the Viceroy herself." ...
"Oh that she might become a real disciple of Jesus!"

In the same melancholy letter she relates another affliction--Mr. Judson, who had frequently
been asked by the natives, 'Where are your religious books?' had been diligently employed in
preparing a Tract in the Burman language called 'A Summary of Christian Truth;' when his nervous
system, and especially his head became so afflicted, that he was obliged to lay aside all study,
and seriously think of a voyage to Calcutta as his only means of restoration. But he was prevented
from executing his design by the joyful news that two additional missionaries were about to
join them. Mr. and Mrs. Hough, from America, arrived in Rangoon in October, 1816; and brought
with them as a present from the Mission at Serampore, a printing press, with a fount of types
in the Burman character than which nothing could have been more acceptable.

Can we wonder that after laboring in loneliness and sorrow three years, such an event as this
should fill their hearts with joy and consolation?

The Burmans are very generally taught to read, though having little that is attractive in their
own literature, and books being scarce and dear, they could not at the time of which we write,
be said to be a reading people. Still the fact that numbers were able to read, was a strong
encouragement to print tracts and books for them. On the occasion of printing the tract above-mentioned,
and a catechism, Mr. Hough writes thus:

"These two little tracts are the first printing ever done in Burmah; and it is a fact grateful
to every Christian feeling, that God has reserved the introduction of this art here, for his
own use."

A circumstance still more cheering to the hearts of the missionaries than even the arrival
of companions from their beloved native land, was a visit of a Burman who having read the "two
little books" from the press of Mr. Hough, came to inquire further into the new religion. When
Mr. Judson first heard from the lips of an idolater the confession that "God is a Being without
beginning or end, not subject to old age or death, but who always is,"--his feelings were indescribable
and overpowering. Here at length was a germination of that seed they had so long been sowing
in tears! For if one heathen heart could be thus led by the Spirit to investigate the truth,
why not more.--Why not many? and why might not the same Spirit lead them to him who is not
only the truth, but the way,--the way to Heaven?

They soon received visits from other Burmans who had seen the tracts issued by them; and who
seemed desirous of learning the truth, but still very fearful of being known as inquirers.
It became necessary therefore to seek the patronage of the government, and Mr. Judson determined,
so soon as he should have finished his dictionary of the language, to proceed to Ava, the residence
of the emperor.

Mrs. Judson met every Sabbath a society of fifteen or twenty females, to whom she read the
Scriptures, and talked about God. They were attentive, and willing to ask and answer questions,
but for a long time experienced no abiding convictions of sin or of duty. Some were willing
to serve Christ if they could do it without renouncing dependence on their own merits. Others
would serve God, if they might serve Gaudama also.

As there is a tendency in enlightened minds to feel a contempt for the intellect of barbarians;
and as some have even felt that time spent as Mrs. Judson's was with those native females,
was thrown away, we will here record her testimony to the intelligence of the Burmese women.
"The females of this country are lively, inquisitive, strong and energetic, susceptible of
friendship and the warmest attachment, and possess minds capable of rising to the highest state
of cultivation and refinement.... This is evident from their mode of conversing," and may be
illustrated by some particulars in the experience of one of them, named May-Meulah.

Previous to the arrival of the missionaries in her country, her active mind was led to inquire
the origin of all things. Who created all that her eyes beheld? She inquired of all she met,
and visited priests and teachers in vain; and such was her anxiety, that her friends feared
for her reason. She resolved to learn to read, that she might consult the sacred books. Her
husband, willing to gratify her curiosity, taught her to read himself. In their sacred literature
she found nothing satisfactory. For ten years she prosecuted her inquiries, when God in his
providence brought to her notice a tract written by Mr. Judson in the Burmese language, which
so far solved her difficulties, that she was led to seek out its author. From him she learned
the truths of the gospel, and by the Holy Spirit those truths were made the means of her conversion.
"She became an ornament to her profession, and her daily walk and conversation would shame
many professors in Christian countries."

Christians in America, was Mrs. Judson's time thrown away, when she was leading Burmese females
to the knowledge of the truth as it is in Jesus?

One of the most splendid buildings in the empire is a pagoda at Rangoon, in which is enshrined
a relic of Gaudama. At this pagoda, a yearly feast is celebrated which lasts three days, and
draws people together from all parts of the country.

Mrs. Judson says--"If Dr. Young could have seen the devotion of this people to their idolatry,
he might well have exclaimed, 'O for a heathen zeal in Christian hearts!' Even while I am writing
my ears are stunned with the noise and confusion of preparation for an approaching festival.
Could you, my dear sir, but once witness this annual feast, could you behold the enthusiasm
of their devotions, you would readily admit that nothing short of an Almighty arm could break
down these strong barriers, and cause the introduction of the gospel."

The pagoda itself is thus described by Dr. Malcom.

"Two miles from Rangoon stands the celebrated pagoda called Shooda-gôn. It stands upon a small
hill surmounted by many smaller pagodas, and many noble trees. The hill has been graduated
into successive terraces, sustained by brick walls; and the summit, which is completely leveled,
contains about two acres.

"The two principal approaches from the city are lined on each side, for a mile, with fine pagodas,
some almost vieing for size with Shoodagon itself. Passing these, on your way from the city,
you come to a flight of time-worn steps, covered by a curious arcade of little houses of various
forms and sizes, some in partial decay, others truly beautiful. After crossing some terraces,
covered in the same manner, you reach the top and passing a great gate, enter at once this
sad but imposing theatre of Gaudama's glory. One's first impressions are, what terrible grandeur;
what sickening magnificence; what absurd imagery; what extravagant expenditure; what long successions
of devotees to procure this throng of buildings of such various dates; what a poor religion
which makes such labors its chief meritoriousness! Before you, stands the huge Shoodagon, its
top among the clouds, and its golden sides blazing in the glories of an eastern sun. Around
are pompous zayats, noble pavements, Gothic mausoleums, uncouth colossal lions, curious stone
umbrellas, graceful cylindrical banners of gold-embroidered muslin hanging from lofty pillars,
enormous stone jars in rows to receive offerings, tapers burning before the images, exquisite
flowers displayed on every side filling the air with fragrance, and a multitude of carved figures
of idols, griffins, guardians, &c.

"Always in the morning, men and women are seen in every direction kneeling behind their gift,
and with uplifted hands reciting their devotions, often with a string of beads counting over
each repetition; aged persons sweep out every place, or pick out the grass from the crevices;
dogs and crows struggle around the altars, and devour the recent offerings; the great bells
utter their frequent tones; and the mutter of praying voices makes a hum like the buzzing of
an exchange.

"Every worshipper brings a present, often a bunch of flowers or a few green twigs plucked on
the way; but generally the nicest eatables ready cooked, beautiful bunches of flowers, articles
of raiment, &c. The amount of offerings here is very great. Stone vases, some of which will
hold fifty or sixty gallons, stand round the pagoda, into which the devotees carefully lay
their leafy plates of rice, plantain, cakes, &c. As these are successively filled, appointed
persons empty them into their vessels, carefully assorting the various kinds. The beautiful
flowers remain all night and are swept out in the morning. No one ever objected however to
my gathering them at pleasure. A gift once deposited is no more regarded by the worshipper."
"I could not but feel as I gazed upon the rich landscape and bright heavens, and marked the
joy of the young men and maidens as they passed on, that he who has so long forborne with them,
will in his abundant mercy, give them pastors after his own heart, who shall feed them with
knowledge and understanding."

After reading this description, who can wonder at the difficulty of turning this semi-barbarous
people from a religion of such a gorgeous and imposing ceremonial, and of such perfect congeniality
with the unhumbled heart, to the spiritual, self-denying, pride-abasing doctrines of the cross?

Mrs. Judson in a letter to a friend, mentions the splendor and costliness of some of the religious
offerings, one of which cost three thousand tickals, or twelve hundred dollars. After a description
of the pagoda and its worshippers, she says: "The ground on which the pagoda is situated, commands
a view of the surrounding country, which presents one of the most beautiful landscapes in nature.
The polished spires of the pagodas, glistening among the trees at a distance, appear like the
steeples of meeting-houses in our American seaports. The verdant appearance of the country,
the hills and valleys, ponds and rivers, the banks of which are covered with cattle and fields
of rice; each in turn attract the eye, and cause the beholder to exclaim, "Was this delightful
country made to be the residence of idolaters?" ... Oh my friend, scenes like these, productive
of feelings so various and so opposite, do notwithstanding, fire the soul with an unconquerable
desire to rescue this people from destruction, and lead them to the Rock that is higher than they."

       *       *       *       *       *

Under date of January 18, 1818, Mrs. Judson writes that they still live quietly, unmolested
by government, and that they receive much respect and affection from the Viceroy and his family.
She had some opportunities of private religious conversation with the Vicereine, to whom she
presented a translation of Matthew's Gospel and a catechism. Still the heart of the lady appeared
unaffected, though she ordered her daughters to be instructed in the new catechism. The inquirer
who was mentioned as having afforded Mr. Judson such lively satisfaction, had been appointed
to a government in a distant province, so that they saw little of him, but were gratified to
learn that his interest in religious books still continued.

We have now to relate some distressing events connected with the mission, which for a time
threatened its very existence.

Mr. Judson having decided to commence a course of public preaching to the natives, thought
best to secure the assistance of a native convert from the province of Arracan, who spoke the
Burman language, to assist him in his first public efforts. He therefore embarked for that
province, leaving Mrs. Judson to continue her efforts with the females under her instruction;
while Mr. and Mrs. Hough were to prosecute the study of the language. He intended to be gone
but three months, but at the end of that period, when his return was daily expected, a vessel
from Chittagong, the port to which he had sailed, arrived at Rangoon, bringing the distressing
tidings, that neither he, nor the vessel he sailed in had been heard of at that port. Letters
received by Mrs. Judson from Bengal, also brought similar intelligence.

While the missionaries left in Rangoon were in this state of fearful alarm and suspense, Mr.
Hough received an order to repair instantly to the Court House with a threat, that "if he did
not tell all the truth in relation to the foreigners, they would write with his heart's blood."
This message spread consternation among the native teachers, domestics and adherents, some
of whom heard that a royal order had arrived for the banishment of all foreign teachers. Mr.
Hough was detained at the court-house from day to day on the most flimsy pretences, ignorant
of the language, and with no one to intercede with the government in his behalf, for it was
contrary to etiquette for a woman to appear before the Viceroy, his family being absent. Mrs.
Judson being at length convinced that the petty officers of government were acting in this
matter without authority, and for the purpose of extorting money from Mr. Hough, with the intrepidity
that always marked her character, "taking her life in her hand", went boldly to the palace
with a petition for his release. The Viceroy immediately granted it, and commanded that Mr.
Hough should receive no further molestation.

To add to the distresses of the missionaries, the cholera now raged around them with fearful
violence and there were rumors of war between England and Burmah. Six months had passed, and
still the fate of Mr. Judson was a fearful mystery. The English vessels were hastening their
departure from the harbor and soon they would have no means of leaving the country, whatever
might occur. Mrs. Judson writes: "Mr. Hough has been for some time past desirous to have Mrs.
Hough, his children and myself go to Bengal. But I have ever felt resolved not to make any
movement till I hear from Mr. Judson. Within a few days, however, some circumstances have occurred
which have induced me to make preparations for a voyage. There is but one remaining ship in
the river; and if an embargo is laid on English ships it will be impossible for Mr. Judson
(if he is yet alive) to return to this place. But the uncertainty of meeting him in Bengal,
and the possibility of his arriving in my absence, cause me to make preparations with a heavy
heart. Sometimes I feel inclined to remain here, alone, and hazard the consequences. I should
certainly conclude on this step, if any probability existed of Mr. Judson's return. This mission
has never appeared in so low a state as at the present time. It seems now entirely destroyed,
as we all expect to embark for Bengal in a day or two. Alas! how changed are our prospects
since Mr. Judson left us! How dark, how intricate the providence that now surrounds us! Yet
it becomes us to be still, and know that he is God who has thus ordered our circumstances."

A fortnight later, she writes: "Alone, my dear friends, in this great house, ... I take my
pen to record the strange vicissitudes through which I have passed within a few days."

On the 5th of this month, I embarked with Mr. Hough and family for Bengal, having previously
disposed of what I could not take with me.... My disinclination to proceed had increased to
such a degree that I was on the point of giving up the voyage; but my passage was paid, my
baggage on board, and I knew not how to separate myself from the rest of the mission family.
The vessel however was several days in going down the river; and "before putting out to sea
was to be detained a day or two longer at its mouth." "I immediately resolved on giving up
the voyage and returning to town. Accordingly the captain sent up a boat with me, and agreed
to forward my baggage the next day. I reached town in the evening,--spent the night at the
house of the only remaining Englishman in the place, and to-day have come out to the mission-house,
to the great joy of all the Burmans left on our premises. Mr. Hough and his family will proceed,
and they kindly and affectionately urge my return. I know I am surrounded by dangers on every
hand, and expect to see much anxiety and distress: but at present I am tranquil, and intend
to make an effort to pursue my studies as formerly, and leave the event with God."

Thus did this heroic woman, with that divine "instinct that seems to guide the noblest natures
in great emergencies, decide to return alone to the mission-house, there to await the return
of her husband, or the confirmation of her worst fears concerning his fate." It was a wonderful
exhibition of courage and constancy; "and gave assurance of all the distinguished qualities,
which at a later period, and amid dangers still more appalling, shone with such brightness
around the character of this remarkable woman. The event justified her determination; and within
a week after her decision was taken, Mr. Judson arrived at Rangoon, having been driven from
place to place by contrary winds, and having entirely failed of the object for which he undertook
the voyage.

"Mr. and Mrs. Hough, after long delays, reached Bengal, carrying with them the press and all
the implements of the printing-house.

A few weeks after the return of Mr. Judson, the prospects of the Mission were still further
brightened by the arrival of Messrs. Colman and Wheelock, who, with their wives, had been appointed
by the Board in America, Missionaries to Burmah. They were young men of good talents, fervent
piety, and extraordinary devotion to the object of evangelizing the heathen.

Mr. Judson, considering himself sufficiently master of the language to preach publicly, decided
to build a small zayat, on a much frequented road, where he could preach the gospel, and converse
with any native who might desire it, and where Mrs. Judson could meet female inquirers, and
hold a school for religious and other instruction. He knew that this might draw upon them the
displeasure of the higher powers, which had hitherto favored them because of the privacy of
their life, and their small influence with the natives; for this government, as they afterwards
discovered, though remarkably tolerant to foreigners, is highly intolerant to its own subjects
in religious matters. Dr. Malcom remarks: "Foreigners of every description are allowed the
fullest exercise of their religion. They may build places of worship in any place, and have
their public festivals and processions without molestation. But no Burman may join any of these
religions, under the severest penalties. In nothing does the government more thoroughly display
its despotism, than in its measures for suppressing all religious innovation, and supporting
the established system.... The whole population is thus held in chains, as iron-like as caste
itself; and to become a Christian openly, is to hazard everything, even life itself." But the
Missionaries not being at this time at all aware of the rigor of this intolerance, resolved
to make the attempt, and trust in the Lord for protection.

In April, 1819, Mr. Judson preached in his new zayat to a congregation of fifteen or twenty
persons, most of them entirely inattentive and disorderly. But feeble as was this beginning,
it was regarded by the missionaries as an event of no ordinary importance. Here was the first
altar ever erected for the worship of the true God in that country over which century after
century had rolled, each sweeping its millions of idolaters into eternity; and rude and lowly
as were its walls, compared with the magnificent temples that surrounded it, it was perhaps
the fitter emblem of that spiritual religion which delights not in temples made with hands,
but in the service of the heart, 'which is in the sight of God of great price.'

The building, which they called a zayat from its similarity to the public buildings of that
name in Burmah, had three apartments; the first a mere verandah thatched with bamboo, open
to the road, and the place where Mr. Judson received all occasional visitors and inquirers;
the second or middle one, a large airy room, occupied on Sundays for preaching and on week
days as a school-room; and the last division, a mere entry opening into the garden leading
to the mission-house. During the week Mrs. Judson occupied the middle room, giving instruction
in reading, &c., to a class of males and females; and also in conversing with female inquirers.
Here she also studied the Siamese language, much spoken in Rangoon, and translated into that
language a catechism, and the Gospel of Matthew.

The 30th of April, 1819, was made memorable by the first visit of an inquirer who became a
convert to the Christian faith. On the 5th of May Mr. Judson says in his journal, "It seems
almost too much to believe that God has begun to manifest his grace to the Burmans, but this
day I could not resist the delightful conviction that this is really the case. Praise and glory
to his name for evermore. Amen."

From this time we learn from Mr. Judson's journal, that the verandah of the zayat where he
sat to receive visitors, was constantly thronged with natives, who, impelled, some by curiosity
and idleness, and some by better motives, came to talk about the new religion. So much however
was to be dreaded, in the opinion of most of these, from the "lord of life and death," as they
called the emperor, that few dared follow out their convictions. Moung Nau, however, the convert
above mentioned, adhered steadfastly to his now faith, and desired baptism. Not having any
doubt of the reality of his conversion, Mr. Judson administered the ordinance to him on Sunday,
June 21. On the following Lord's day, the missionaries had the unspeakable satisfaction of
sitting down at the Lord's table for the first time with a converted Burman; and as Mr. Judson
writes, he had the privilege to which he had been looking forward many years, of administering
the communion in two languages.

Many of the expressions of this young convert are very interesting. We find them in a letter
from Mrs. Judson. "In our religion there is no way to escape the punishment due to sin; but
according to the religion of Christ, he himself has died in order to deliver his disciples.
How great are my thanks to Jesus Christ for sending teachers to this country! and how great
are my thanks to the teachers for coming!" On hearing the fifth chapter of Matthew read, he
said "These words take hold on my very heart, they make me tremble. Here God commands us to
do everything that is good in secret, and not to be seen of men. How unlike our religion is
this! When Burmans make offerings to the pagodas they make a great noise with drums and musical
instruments that others may see how good they are. But this religion makes the mind fear God;
it makes it of its own accord fear sin."

In the same letter she mentions a very interesting meeting with the females before mentioned,
fifteen in number, who had for some time received from her religious instruction. Their love
for, and confidence in their own religion seemed to be taken away; the truth seemed to have
forced itself upon their understandings; but the sinfulness of their hearts, which among heathen
as well as Christian nations is the great obstacle to salvation, could only be removed by the
Holy Spirit, and oh how earnest and fervent were the prayers of their teacher for the presence
of that heavenly agent!

Mr. Wheelock, one of the recently arrived missionaries, was obliged on account of his failing
health to try a sea-voyage; but during the passage to Bengal, in a paroxysm of fever and delirium,
he threw himself overboard and was drowned.

Some of the inquirers at the zayat had no inconsiderable powers of reasoning and argument;
one in particular, named Moung-Shwa-gnong; who would spend whole days at the zayat, and engage
Mr. Judson in endless discussions.--Not satisfied with the Buddhist faith he had become a confirmed
skeptic, and disputed every Gospel truth before he received it with much subtilty and ingenuity.
But after a while he found that his visits at the zayat had attracted the notice of Government,
that the viceroy on being told he had renounced the religion of his country, had said, 'Inquire
further about him,' and the missionaries for a time saw him no more.

The two candidates that next presented themselves for baptism, were urgent that the ordinance
should be performed, not absolutely in private, but at sunset and away from public observation.
The missionaries discussed their case long with them and with each other. Mr. Judson's remarks
on the subject, as well as his description of the baptism, are so full of that tenderness and
pathos which is eminently a 'fruit of the Spirit,' that we must give them in his own words.

"We felt satisfied that they were humble disciples of Jesus, and were desirous of receiving
this ordinance purely out of regard to his command, and their own spiritual welfare; we felt
that we were all equally exposed to danger, and needed a spirit of mutual candor and forbearance,
and sympathy; we were convinced; that they were influenced rather by desires of avoiding unnecessary
exposure, than by that sinful fear which would plunge them into apostasy in the hour of trial;
and when they assured us that if actually brought before government, they could not think of
denying their Saviour, we could not conscientiously refuse their request, and therefore agreed
to have them baptized to-morrow at sunset." "7. Lord's day. We had worship as usual and the
people dispersed. About half an hour before sunset the two candidates came to the zayat, accompanied
by three or four of their friends; and after a short prayer we proceeded to the spot where
Moung-Nau was formerly baptized. The sun was not allowed to look on the humble, timid profession.
No wondering crowd crowned the overshadowing hill. No hymn of praise expressed the exulting
feeling of joyous hearts. Stillness and solemnity pervaded the scene. We felt, on the banks
of the water, as a little, feeble, solitary band. But perhaps some hovering angels took note
of the event with more interest than they witnessed the late coronation; perhaps Jesus looked
down on us, pitied and forgave our weaknesses, and marked us for his own; perhaps if we deny
him not, he will acknowledge us another day, more publicly than we venture at present to acknowledge
him."

There was a great falling off in the attendance at the zayat after Moung-shwa-gnong's defection.
None dared call to inquire from religious principle, and curiosity respecting the religion
had been fully gratified. It became highly desirable to take some measures to secure the favor
of the emperor. If he could be made propitious, the converts and the missionaries would have
nothing to fear. Messrs. Judson and Colman, therefore, leaving their families at Rangoon, set
out on their visit to Ava, to lay their case--as a Burman would express it--before 'the golden
feet.' They carried with them, as presents to his majesty, the Bible, in six volumes, covered
with gold leaf in the Burman style, each volume enclosed in a rich wrapper; and many other
articles as presents to the different members of the government.

The passage up the Irrawaddy to Ava, or rather Amerapoora, which was then the capital, was
made in safety in a little more than thirty days. They soon found the house of their old friend
the former viceroy of Rangoon, who now enjoyed a high post under government. Here they were
kindly received, and promised a speedy presentation to the "golden face," i.e. the emperor.

The next day, Moung Yo, a favorite officer of the viceroy, came to take them to the imperial
palace. He first introduced them to the private minister of state, who met them very pleasantly,
received their presents, and a petition they had prepared to the emperor, which latter he was
examining when some one announced that the 'golden foot' was about to advance; when the minister
hastily rose up, put on his state-robes, and prepared to present them to the emperor. They
were conducted through various splendor and parade, up a flight of steps into a magnificent
hall. Mr. Judson says "The scene to which we were now introduced, really surpassed our expectation.
The spacious extent of the hall, the number and magnitude of the pillars, the height of the
dome, the whole completely covered with gold, presented a most grand and imposing spectacle.
Very few were present, and those evidently great officers of state. Our situation prevented
us from seeing the further avenue of the hall, but the end where we sat opened into the parade
which the emperor was about to inspect.

"We remained about five minutes, when every one put himself into the most respectful attitude,
and Moung Yo whispered that his majesty had entered. We looked through the hall as far as the
pillars would allow, and presently caught sight of this modern Ahasuerus. He came forward,
unattended--in solitary grandeur--exhibiting the proud gait and majesty of an eastern monarch.
His dress was rich but not distinctive, and he carried in his hand the gold-sheathed sword,
which seems to have taken the place of the sceptre of ancient times. But it was his high aspect
and commanding eye, that chiefly rivetted our attention. He strided on. Every head excepting
ours, was now in the dust. We remained kneeling, our hands folded, our eyes fixed on the Monarch.
When he drew near, we caught his attention. He stopped, partly turned towards us--'Who are
these?' 'The teachers, great King,' I replied. 'What, you speak Burman?--the priests that I
heard of last night? When did you arrive? Are you teachers of religion? Are you married? Why
do you dress so?' These and other similar questions we answered; when he appeared to be pleased
with us, and sat down on an elevated seat--his hand resting on the hilt of his sword, and his
eyes intently fixed on us."

Moung Zah now read their petition, which set forth that they were teachers of the religion
of their country, and begged the royal permission to teach the same in his dominions; and also
prayed that no Burman might be subjected to molestation from government for listening to or
embracing that religion; and the emperor after hearing it, took it himself, read it through
and handed it back without saying a word. In the meantime Mr. Judson had given Moung Zah an
abridged copy of the tract called a "Summary of Christian Doctrine," which had been got up
in the richest style and dress possible. The emperor took the tract "Our hearts," says Mr.
J., "now rose to God for a display of his grace. Oh have mercy on Burmah! Have mercy on her
king!" But alas! the time had not yet come. He held the tract long enough to read the two first
sentences, which assert that there is one eternal God, who is independent of the incidents
of mortality and that besides him, there is no God; and then with an air of indifference, perhaps
disdain, he dashed it down to the ground! Moung Zah stooped forward, picked it up and handed
it to us. Moung Yo made a slight attempt to save us by unfolding one of the volumes which composed
our present and displaying its beauty, but his majesty took no notice. Our fate was decided.
After a few moments Moung Zah interpreted his royal master's will in the following terms: "In
regard to the objects of your petition, his majesty gives no order. In regard to your sacred
books, his majesty has no use for them--take them away." ... "He then rose from his seat, strode
on to the end of the hall, and there, after having dashed to the ground the first intelligence
he had ever received of the eternal God, his Maker, Preserver, his Judge, he threw himself
down on a cushion, and lay listening to the music, and gazing at the parade spread out before him."

They and their presents were then hurried away with little ceremony. The next day they "ascertained
beyond a doubt, that the policy of the Burman government is precisely the same as the Chinese;
that it is quite out of the question whether any subjects of the emperor who embrace a religion
different from his own, will be exempt from punishment; and that we, in presenting a petition
to that effect, had been guilty of a most egregious blunder,--an unpardonable offence."

We cannot prevail on ourselves to give the sequel of this narrative in any other than the beautiful
and picturesque language of Mr. Judson which we have so often quoted.

"It was now evening. We had four miles to walk by moonlight. Two of our disciples only followed
us. They had pressed as near as they ventured to the door of the hall of audience, and listened
to words which sealed the extinction of their hopes and ours. For some time we spoke not.

    'Some natural tears we dropped, but wiped them soon.
    Tho world was all before us, where to choose
    Our place of rest, and Providence our guide.'

And as our first parents took their solitary way through Eden, so we took our way through this
great city.

"Arrived at the boat, we threw ourselves down, exhausted in body and mind. For three days we
had walked eight miles a day, the most of the way in the heat of the sun, which in the interior
of these countries is exceedingly oppressive; and the result of our toils and travels has been--the
wisest and best possible--a result, which, if we could see the end from the beginning, would
call forth our highest praise. O slow of heart to believe and trust in the over-ruling agency
of our own Almighty Saviour!"

They returned to Rangoon by an easy and rapid passage down the river, and calling the few disciples
together frankly disclosed to them the result of their mission. To their surprise and delight
it only increased their zeal and attachment for the religion they had professed. They became
in turn the comforters of the missionaries, vieing with each other in trying to convince them
that the cause was not yet desperate. Above all were they solicitous that the missionaries
should not carry out a design they had formed to leave them, and try to find a field more favorable
for their labors. One assured them he would follow them to the end of the world. Another, who
having an unconverted wife, could not follow them, declared that if left there alone, he would
perform no other duties but those of Christ's religion.

But what had most weight with Mr. and Mrs. Judson in inducing them to remain, was the fact
that inquiry seemed to be spreading in the neighborhood, and that there seemed a further prospect
of usefulness, in spite of the fear of persecution. They therefore concluded to remain for
the present at Rangoon; while Mr. and Mrs. Colman should proceed to Arracan and form a station
there.

Thus again were Mr. and Mrs. J. alone; but not now exclusively among heathen idolaters. The
affectionate zeal of the disciples rejoiced their hearts; and others, and among them the old
disputant, Moung-Shwa-gnong, seemed sincere and hopeful inquirers. Three women, induced by
him, also visited Mrs. Judson to learn the way of life. One of these (the one we have before
alluded to) was characterized by superior discernment and mental power, but exceedingly timid
through fear of persecution. In one of her conversations she expressed her surprise that the
effect of the religion of Christ upon her mind was to make her love his disciples more than
her dearest natural relations. This showed that she was a real disciple, though a timid one.
But surely it is not for us who sit under our own vine with none to make us afraid, to be severe
on these poor heathen, for not at once overcoming the dread of suffering, so natural to the
human heart! Before we judge them, let us be very sure that our faith would endure the fires
of persecution and even of martyrdom which threatened them. They knew of instances where their
countrymen who had embraced the Roman Catholic faith, had been subjected to the punishment
of the iron-mall, an instrument of torture more dreadful than any employed against the Scottish
Covenanters, in the times of their bitterest persecution. Sudden execution they might have
braved, though that will appal almost any heart; but lingering torture was what they might
fear, to which death should succeed only when nature could bear no more.

Females in Christian countries, who think much of your self-denials and sacrifices, when

    'A moment's pain, a passing shower,
    Is all the grief ye share,'

how could your hearts endure if called to such trials, as might at any moment befall your poor
sisters in Burmah!

Mrs. Judson's health had for some time been failing, and at length after having gone through
two courses of salivation for the liver-complaint, she was obliged to try a sea-voyage. Her
situation was too critical for her to think of going alone, and Mr. Judson concluded to accompany
her to Bengal. Two converts expressed the strongest desire to profess Christ, before the missionaries
should leave them. They were accordingly baptized. The ship being detained, the speculative,
hesitating, but now sincere disciple, Moung Shwa-gnong, casting aside his fears and scruples,
boldly avowed his faith, and desired baptism. Of course he was joyfully received. The scene
at his baptism had such an effect upon Mah Meulah, the female who has been before mentioned,
that she too could no longer delay a public profession of faith in Christ. On returning to
the house after receiving the rite, she said, "Now I have taken the oath of allegiance to Jesus
Christ, and I have nothing to do but to commit myself, soul and body, into the hands of my
Lord, assured that he will never suffer me to fall away!"

Surely if no other proof existed of the power of gospel truth to renew the heart of men, a
sufficient one would be furnished here. In the face of threatened persecution not only were
old converts strengthened in their faith in, and attachment to Christ, but new ones eagerly
pressed forward to unite themselves with the despised and humble flock.

Nine males and one female had now been baptized at the hazard of their lives; a grammar and
dictionary had been compiled and printed; a portion of the Scriptures translated and printed;
tracts had been issued; and so greatly had the missionaries gained in favor with the people,
that as they went down to the ship which was to carry them to Bengal, more than a hundred natives
followed them, testifying sincere grief at their departure.

They arrived in Calcutta on the 8th of August, 1820. The voyage was of no essential benefit
to Mrs. J.'s health, neither was her visit to Calcutta; but at Serampore she so far recovered
as to make them desirous to return to Rangoon, where they arrived on the 5th of January, 1821.
The converts received them with the utmost affection; their old friend the vicereine again
occupied her former palace and welcomed Mrs. Judson with friendly familiarity, and new inquirers
presented themselves at the zayat. In translating the Scriptures, the acute and fertile mind
of Moung Shwa-gnong was an invaluable assistance, while another convert of cultivated intellect
was equally useful in other missionary labors. Though through fear of being subjected to extortion,
some of them had been obliged to flee to the woods, not one disciple had disgraced or dishonored
his profession. A violent effort and been made by some of Moung Shwa-gnong's enemies, to ruin
him in the opinion of the viceroy, by complaining of him that he was making every endeavor
"to turn the priests' rice-pot bottom upwards." "What consequence?" said the viceroy, "let
the priests turn it back again." All the disciples from that time felt sure of toleration under
Mya-day-men, (the name of the viceroy.)

The history of the next few months presents nothing novel in the life of this little Christian
community, to which there were however some accessions. But Mrs. Judson was gradually sinking
under the disease which had so long troubled her, until at length it was found essential to
her life even, that she should seek some more propitious climate. After much anxious deliberation
it was resolved that she should sail for Bengal, and thence to America. Her feelings on leaving
the 'home of her heart,' and the husband of her youth, as well as the spiritual children that
God had given them in that heathen land--to try alone the perils of a long and tedious voyage,
in a state of health which rendered it doubtful whether she would ever reach the land of her
nativity, or return to that of her adoption--can scarcely be conceived, much less described.
Her own words are:

"Those only who have been through a variety of toil and privation to obtain a darling object,
can realize how entirely every fibre of the heart adheres to that object when secured. Had
we encountered no difficulties, and suffered no privations in our attempts to form a Church
of Christ, under the government of a heathen despot, we should have been warmly attached to
the individuals composing it, but should not have felt that tender solicitude and anxious affection,
as in the present case.

"Rangoon, from having been the theatre in which so much of the power, faithfulness and mercy
of God have been exhibited; from having been considered for ten years past as my home for life,
and from a thousand interesting associations, had become the dearest spot on earth. Hence you
will readily imagine, that no ordinary consideration would have induced my departure."

She arrived in Calcutta Sept. 22d, 1821. Finding when she reached there that the American captains
of vessels declined taking passengers, without an exorbitant price, she decided not to take
passage to America. On mentioning her circumstances to a lady in Calcutta, the latter strongly
recommended the advantages of a voyage to England, on account of the superior accommodations,
medical advice, and female passengers in English ships. A pious captain offered to take her
for about one third of the price demanded for a voyage to America, provided she would share
a cabin with three children, who were going to England an offer which she immediately accepted.
The father of the children subsequently arrived in Calcutta, and generously paid the whole
price of the cabin, which enabled her to go without any expense to the Board.

She writes: "If the pain in my side is entirely removed while on my passage to Europe, I shall
return to India in the same ship, and proceed immediately to Rangoon. But if not I shall go
over to America, and spend one winter in my dear native country.

"Ardently as I desire to see my beloved friends in America, I cannot prevail on myself to be
any longer from Rangoon than is absolutely necessary for the preservation of my life. I have
had a severe struggle relative to my immediate return to Rangoon instead of going to England.
But I did not venture to go contrary to the convictions of reason, to the opinion of an eminent
and skilful physician, and the repeated injunctions of Mr. Judson.

"My last letter from Rangoon was dated Oct. 26. Moung Shwa-gnong had been accused before the
viceroy, and had disappeared. Mr. Judson had felt much anxiety and distress on his account,
fearing he had done something in the way of retraction, which prevented his visiting him. But
in a fortnight he was agreeably surprised at seeing him enter. He informed Mr. J. that having
been accused, he had thought it the wisest way to keep out of sight; that he had put all his
family on board a boat, and was going up the country among the sect of heretics with whom he
once associated, and had now come to take leave, obtain tracts, gospels, &c. Mr. Judson furnished
him with what was necessary, and bid him God speed. He will no doubt do much good among that
class of people, for it is impossible for him to be any time with his friends without conversing
on the subject of religion. Moung Ing had returned, as steadfast and as much devoted to the
cause as ever. He and Moung Shwa-ba spend every evening in reading the Scriptures, and finding
the places where the apostles preached, on a map which Mr. Judson has made for them. Another
Burman has been baptized, who gives decided evidence of being a true Christian. Have we not,
my dear sir, every reason to trust God in future, when we see what he has done in Rangoon.
Could you see at once the difficulties in the way of the conversion of the Burmans, the grace
of God would appear ten times as conspicuous as it now does. When we hardly ventured to hope
that we should ever see one of them truly converted, how great is our joy to see a little church
rise up in the midst of that wilderness, consisting of thirteen converted Burmans."

On her passage to England, her old enemy, the liver-complaint, again attacked her; but bodily
illness did not prevent her from endeavoring to benefit the souls of her fellow-passengers;
and with regard to two of them, her efforts did not seem unsuccessful.

On arriving in England, she was cordially invited by the Hon. Joseph Butterworth, M.P., to
make his house her home. He afterward, at a public meeting, referred to her visit as "reminding
him of the apostolic admonition, 'Be not forgetful to entertain strangers, for thereby some
have entertained angels unawares.'"

At his house she met many persons, distinguished for literature and piety, among whom were
Sumner, Babington and Wilberforce.

After spending some time at Cheltenham, to which place she had been sent for the benefit of
its waters, she accepted a pressing invitation to visit Scotland, where, as in England, she
received valuable presents and innumerable acts of kindness. The piety of her English friends
seemed to her of the most high-toned character, and their ardent friendship called forth her
warmest affections. Though on her way to a still dearer country, the land of her birth, she
could not part with them without the tenderest regret.

In the meanwhile events of some interest were transpiring in Burmah. In consequence of the
persecution against Moung Shwa-gnong which had obliged him to flee for his life, and the new
vigilance of priests and officers in respect to converts,--the inquirers withdrew altogether
from the mission-house, and Mr. Judson was obliged to close the zayat, and suspend public preaching
on the Sabbath, though still the converts visited him privately, for instruction and consolation.

Mr. J.'s solitary condition was however soon relieved by the arrival of Dr. and Mrs. Price,
who came to share his labors among the heathen; and also by the return of Mr. and Mrs. Hough
from Serampore, bringing with them the printing press, whose absence had occasioned no small
delay and inconvenience to Mr. Judson in his labors.

On the 25th of September, 1822, Mrs. J. arrived in America. Her feelings on revisiting her
native land, are best learned from a letter to Mr. Judson's parents, dated Sept 27.

"With mingled sensations of joy and sorrow, I address a few lines to the parents of my beloved
husband,--joy, that I once more find myself in my own native country, and with the prospect
of meeting with loved relatives and friends--sorrow, that he who has been a participator in
all my concerns for the last ten years, is not now at hand to partake with me in the joyful
anticipations of meeting those he so much loves.

"I left Liverpool on the 16th of August, and arrived at New York harbor day before yesterday.
On account of the prevalence of yellow fever, prudence forbade my landing. Accordingly I embarked
on board the steamboat for this place, where I arrived a few hours ago. It was my intention
to pass a week in Philadelphia and then go to Providence, and thence to you in Woburn, as it
would be on my way to Bradford, where I shall spend the winter. But Dr. Stoughton wishes me
to go to Washington, which will detain me in this part of the country a week longer. However
I hope to be with you in a fortnight from this time. My health is much improved since I left
England and I begin to hope the disorder is entirely eradicated."

Of this visit of Mrs. Judson to America, Professor Gammell remarks in general, as follows:

"Her visit to the United States forms an epoch of no inconsiderable importance in the progress
of interest in missions among the churches of various denominations in this country. She visited
several of the leading cities of the Union; met a large number of associations of ladies; attended
the session of the Triennial Convention at Washington; and in a multitude of social circles,
alike in the South and in the North, recited the thrilling narrative of what she had seen and
experienced during the eventful years in which she had dwelt in a heathen land.

"But relaxation and travelling for health and interviews with religious friends, were not her
only occupation. In her retirement, in addition to maintaining an extensive correspondence,
she found time to prepare the history of the mission in Burmah which was published in her name,
in a series of letters addressed to Mr. Butterworth, the gentleman beneath whose roof she had
been a guest during her residence in England. These records, which were principally compiled
from documents which had been published before, contained the first continuous account of the
Burman mission ever given to the public. The work was widely read in England and America, and
received the favorable notice of several of the leading organs of public criticism.

"The influence which she exerted in favor of the cause of missions during her brief residence
of eight or nine months in the United States, it is hardly possible now to estimate. She enlisted
more fully in the cause not a few leading minds who have since rendered it signal service both
by eloquent vindications and by judicious counsels; and by the appeals which she addressed
to Christians of her own sex, and her fervid conversations with persons of all classes and
denominations in America, as well as by the views which she submitted to the managers of the
mission, a new zeal for its prosecution was everywhere created, and the missionary enterprise,
instead of being regarded with doubt and misgiving, as it had been by many, even among Christians,
began to be understood in its higher relations to all the hopes of man, and to be contemplated
in its true grandeur, and ennobling moral dignity."

Such is the opinion of her visit expressed by an elegant and enlightened scholar, now that
more than a quarter of a century has passed, bringing triumph to the missionary cause, and
honor to its first founders and advocates; but such we regret to say was not the universal
sentiment of her contemporaries. Many persons well remember the unfounded stories put in circulation
respecting her, by some whose motives we will not inquire into, as they would scarcely bear
investigation, in regard to her actions, her intentions, and even her apparel. As her biographer
remarks in introducing some of her letters at this period: "It was said that her health was
not seriously impaired, and that she visited the South with a view to excite attention and
applause. To persons who would put forth or circulate such calumnies, a perusal of her letters,
in which she utters her feelings to her friends without reserve, will, it is hoped, minister
a rebuke sufficiently severe to awaken shame and penitence; and to those who may unwarily have
been led to form unfavorable opinions respecting Mrs. Judson, we cannot doubt that these letters
will afford welcome evidence of her modest and amiable disposition, consistent and exemplary
demeanor, ardent piety, and steady, irrepressible devotion to the interests of the mission."

       *       *       *       *       *

The person and manners of Mrs. Judson at this time, were, according to the testimony of some
who well recollect her, engaging and attractive in no common degree. Her sweet and ready smile,
her dark expressive eye, the animation and sprightliness of her conversation, and her refined
taste and manners, made her a favorite in all circles. Her dress, for which she was indebted
to the liberality of British friends, was more rich and showy than she would have chosen for
herself, and as has been said, excited unkind remarks from some who did not care to investigate
her reasons for wearing it. Elegant as it was said to be, it was certainly far better she should
wear it, even at the risk of seeming inconsistency, than to put her friends to the expense
of other and plainer clothing.

As to the imputation that she preferred the eclat of life in a southern city, to the retirement
of her New England home,--it is sufficient to answer, that a constitution relaxed and enfeebled
by ten years' residence in a tropical climate, was ill-fitted to bear the rigors of a New England
winter, and as her whole object in her visit, was the restoration of her health, she conceived
it her duty to choose such a place of sojourn as should seem most favorable to it.

       *       *       *       *       *

After a stay of six weeks with her parents in Bradford, Mrs. J. found it necessary to seek
a milder climate, and was advised to try that of Baltimore. She had a pleasant journey to that
city, stopping one day with friends in New York, and arrived there on the 5th of December.
From her letters written about this time we proceed to give some extracts.

"My journey to this place was pleasant, though fatiguing. I passed one night only in New York,
and spent a most pleasant evening in the society of a large party of good people who were collected
for the purpose of prayer. Many fervent petitions were presented in behalf of the perishing
Burmans, and the little church established in that country. It was an evening to me full of
interest; but I found at the conclusion, that my strength was quite exhausted, and I began
to fear whether I should be able to continue my journey." ... "How much of heaven might Christians
enjoy even here on earth if they would keep in view what ought to be their great object in
life. If they would but make the enjoyment of God their main pursuit how much more consistent
their profession would be with their conduct, how much more useful their lives and how much
more rapidly they would ripen for eternal glory."

"Christians do not sufficiently assist one another in their spiritual walk. They are not enough
in the habit of conversing familiarly and affectionately on the state of each others' souls,
and kindly encouraging each other to persevere and get near to heaven. One degree of grace
attained in this world, is worth more than every earthly enjoyment."

"I ought to have mentioned that I found much of the true missionary spirit existing in New York.

"I began this letter some days ago, but a violent cold has prevented my finishing it. I am
very thankful that I am no farther north than Baltimore, for I feel confident the cold would
soon destroy me. I have not been out of the house since I arrived, and hardly out of my chamber.
My health is certainly better than when I left Boston, though I have a heavy cold and some cough.

"What can be done to excite a missionary spirit in this country? I dare not engage in the subject
till I am better. It would take up my whole soul, and retard my recovery. A little while, and
we are in eternity; before we find ourselves there, let us do much for Christ."

In a letter to a friend at Waterville, Mrs. Judson gives a full account of the reasons that
determined her to pass the winter at the south. She says: "I had never fully counted the cost
of a visit to my native country and beloved relatives. I did not expect that a scene which
I had anticipated as so joyous, was destined to give my health and constitution a shock which
would require months to repair.

"During my passage from England my health was most perfect, not the least symptom of my original
disorder remained. But from the day of my arrival, the idea that I was once more on American
ground banished all peace and quiet from my mind, and for the first four days and nights I
never closed my eyes to sleep! This circumstance, together with dwelling on the anticipated
meeting with my friends, occasioned the most alarming apprehensions.

"I reached my father's about a fortnight after my arrival in the country--and had not then
been able to procure a single night's sleep. The scene which ensued brought my feelings to
a crisis, nature was quite exhausted, and I began to fear would sink. To be concise, my health
began to decline in a most alarming manner, and the pain in my side and cough returned. I was
kept in a state of constant excitement by daily meeting my old friends and acquaintances; and
during the whole six weeks of my residence at my father's, I had not one night's quiet rest.
I felt the cold most severely, and found, as that increased, my cough increased."

She goes on to say that under these circumstances, she was strongly urged by Dr. Judson, a
brother of her husband, who was then in Baltimore, to remove to the south, and take up her
residence for the winter with him at his boarding-house. She says that painful as it was to
leave her dear family, yet as she knew that freedom from company and excitement, as well as
a milder climate, were absolutely essential to her recovery, she was induced to go. She adds
that her health is so far re-established that she is able to give five hours a day to study
and to the compilation of her History of the Burman Mission, a work she had very much at heart.

The next passage in the letter is of touching interest, as showing the meekness of the Christian
spirit in receiving a rebuke, whether merited or not.

"Your kind hint relative to my being injured by the lavish attention of our dear friends in
this country, has much endeared you to my heart. I am well aware that human applause has a
tendency to elate the soul, and render it less anxious about spiritual enjoyments, particularly
if the individual is conscious of deserving it. But I must say, that since my return to this
country, I have often been affected to tears, in hearing the undeserved praises of my friends,
feeling that I was far, very far from being what they imagined: and that there are thousands
of poor obscure Christians, whose excellences will never be known in this world, who are a
thousand times more deserving of the tender regard of their fellow-Christians than I am.

"Yet I trust I am grateful to my Heavenly Father for inclining the hearts of his children to
look on me with a friendly eye. The retired life I now lead is much more congenial to my feelings,
and much more favorable to religious enjoyment, than when I was kept in a continual bustle
of company. Yes, it is in retirement that our affections are raised to God, and our souls refreshed
and quickened by the influences of the Holy Spirit. If we would live near the threshold of
Heaven, and daily take a glance at our promised inheritance we must avoid not only worldly,
but religious dissipation. Strange as it may seem, I do believe there is something like religious
dissipation, in a Christian's being so entirely engrossed in religious company, as to prevent
his spiritual enjoyments."

In Baltimore, through the influence of Dr. Judson, she had the best medical advice and attendance
the city could give; and was put upon a course of mercury in order to produce salivation. She
denied herself to company, and thus secured time for writing, in which employment she was assisted
by "a pious excellent young lady," whom she engaged as a copyist. Her correspondence was extensive,
and occupied much of her time. One interesting letter from England informed her that Mr. Butterworth
had put at interest for her Burman school £100 sterling, and that a larger sum had been collected.
Her English physicians insisted that she could not live in India, and urged her and her husband
to come to England, but her determination to return to Burmah was unalterable.

On the 19th of February she writes to her friend in Waterville: "Your kind and affectionate
letter found me in bed, so weak that I was obliged to read it at intervals; but it afforded
heartfelt consolation. Thanks to our Heavenly Father whose guardian care and love I have so
largely experienced. I am now much better, and once more enjoy the prospect of gaining that
degree of health which will allow my return to Burmah, there to spend my remaining days, few
or many, in endeavouring to guide immortal souls to that dear Redeemer, whose presence can
make joyful a sick chamber, a dying bed.

"For the last month I have been very ill. The disease seemed to be removed from the liver to
the lungs. I have raised blood twice, which the physicians thought proceeded from the lungs,
though I am inclined to think it was from the throat. I was however bled so frequently and
so largely that my strength was quite reduced. At present I am free from every unfavorable
symptom, but am still weak.

"I am rejoiced to hear that Mr. Boardman has offered himself to supply dear Colman's place.
If actuated by motives of love to God, and concern for precious souls, tell him he will never
regret the sacrifice, but will find those spiritual consolations which will more than compensate
him for every privation. I shall rejoice to afford him every assistance in the acquisition
of the language which my health will allow, though I fear he will not be ready to sail so early
as I hope to embark.

"This is the third day I have been writing this letter, on account of my weakness. But I am
gaining a little every day. Yesterday I had a little female prayer-meeting in my chamber--trust
the blessed Saviour was near us. Oh it is good to get near to God, and feel whether in life
or death, we are His.

"Let us, my dear sister, so live, that our union to Christ may not only be satisfactory to
ourselves but to all around us. On earth we serve God--in heaven enjoy him--is a motto I have
long wished to adopt. When in heaven we can do nothing towards saving immortal souls."

In a subsequent letter she mentions receiving a journal kept by her husband, with the joyful
intelligence of the accession of five more converts to the little church there, three of whom
were females, and members of her Wednesday meeting. "They have," she says "set up of their
own accord a female prayer-meeting. Is not this encouraging?" Dr. Price had been ordered to
Ava on account of his medical skill, and Mr. Judson was about to accompany him to make a further
effort for toleration.

In March, Mrs. Judson went to Washington to superintend the printing of her History of the
Mission, and here she was detained contrary to her wishes until the last of April. However,
this detention gave her an opportunity of meeting the Baptist General Convention which held
its session there at that time. A committee was appointed to confer with her respecting the
Burman Mission, and at her suggestion several important measures were adopted.

When the printing of her work was completed, she presented the copy-right to the convention.
The work was favorably noticed in several leading journals of the day, and has circulated extensively
both in Europe and this country. It was of great service not only to the cause of the particular
field of which it was the history, but to the cause of missions generally, in awaking the public
mind from that strange apathy in regard to our Saviour's parting command in which for seventeen
centuries it had for the most part quietly slumbered. We say for the most part, for we do not
forget the self-denying labors of the Roman Catholics in propagating their doctrines in various
parts of the world; indeed this has always been the bright redeeming feature of that system
of semi-pagan Christianity. Well would it be if protestant Christians would imitate their zeal
and self-devotion! How strange that centuries passed, even after the Reformation, before Christians
began to recognize as binding that solemn injunction, "Go ye into all the world, and preach
the Gospel to every creature, with its encouraging promise, Lo I am with you always even unto
the end of the world!"

This apathy in respect to the cause nearest her heart, was a great source of grief to Mrs.
J. In a letter to Dr. Wayland, written in Washington, after stating that she had found that
her strength was not sufficiently restored to undertake a journey to the North, she says, "This,
together with the hope of exciting more attention to the subject of missions among the members
of the General Convention which will soon meet here," has induced me to remain.... "Oh my brother,
my heart sickens at the apathy and unconcern relative to the subject of missions which are
in many places exhibited. I sometimes say to myself, Will not the missionary flame become entirely
extinct, and the mission already established in Burmah, die for want of support?... Where are
our young men, fired with the love of Christ and compassion for immortal souls, who are desirous
to leave their comforts and their homes for a few years, to serve their Redeemer in foreign
lands? Who is willing to obey this last, this most benevolent command of our Lord, Go ye into
all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature? But I must stop. Loss of sleep for
this night will be the consequence of indulging myself thus far."

At the above-mentioned Convention, Mr. Jonathan Wade of New York, and Mr. George D. Boardman
of Maine, had offered themselves as Missionaries to the East. Mr. Wade was soon after regularly
appointed by the Board, and with his wife, was directed to take passage for India with Mrs.
Judson. The latter writes to her sister from Boston, upon her arrival there from the South,
"We arrived in safety at six o'clock on Thursday. We were immediately informed that Mr. and
Mrs. Wade would sail with me to India. This was animating intelligence, and I felt that the
hand of God was in it, for he had heard my prayers.

"Yesterday we went on board the ship, chose my cabin, and agreed with the captain to take us
all for twelve hundred dollars. The accommodations are excellent, clean and airy. It is a most
beautiful ship, and the captain seems disposed to do all in his power for our comfort.... I
am now making preparations for my passage. Monday we have a prayer-meeting, and on Tuesday
we go to Plymouth. I am doubting whether I ought to go to Bradford again or not. My nerves
are in such a state that I have to make every possible exertion to keep them quiet. It will
only increase my agitation to take a formal leave of my friends and home."

On the 22d of June, 1823, they sailed from Boston amidst every demonstration of personal attachment
and Christian sympathy. They carried with them a valuable present and a letter from the Convention
to the Burman emperor, sent in the hope of conciliating his favor toward the missionaries.

It was mentioned that during Mrs. Judson's absence from Burmah, Dr. Price, the fame of whose
medical skill had reached the 'golden ears,' had been ordered to Ava, and that Mr. Judson had
determined to make another attempt to procure toleration for the Christians by a second visit
to the capital. In a boat furnished by government, they left Rangoon, embarked for Ava, then
the capital, and were immediately introduced to the king. Dr. Price was graciously received,
but at the first interview Mr. Judson was scarcely noticed. Of the second interview, we will
give the account in Mr. Judson's own words.

"To-day the king noticed me for the first time.... After some time he said, 'And you, in black,
what are you? a medical man too?' 'Not a medical man, but a teacher of religion, your Majesty.'
He proceeded to make a few inquiries about my religion, and then put the alarming inquiry whether
any had embraced it. I evaded by saying 'Not here.' He persisted 'Are there any in Rangoon?'
'There are a few.' 'Are they foreigners?' I trembled for the consequence of an answer which
might involve the little church in ruin; but the truth must be sacrificed or the consequences
hazarded; and I therefore replied, 'There are some foreigners and some Burmans.' He remained
silent a few moments, but presently showed he was not displeased, by asking a great variety
of questions on religion, and geography and astronomy, some of which were answered in such
a satisfactory manner, as to occasion a general expression of satisfaction in all the court
present.

"After his Majesty retired, a royal secretary entered into conversation, and allowed me to
expatiate on several topics of religion in my usual way. And all this took place in the presence
of the very man, now an Atwenwoon, (one of the highest officers) who many years ago, caused
his uncle to be tortured under the iron mall, for renouncing Buddhism and embracing the Romish
religion!...

"Thanks to God for the encouragement of this day! The monarch of the empire has distinctly
understood, that some of his subjects have embraced the Christian religion, and his wrath has
been restrained."

He afterwards had another interview, in which the king inquired much about America, and authorized
him to invite her ships to his dominions, assuring them of protection and facilities for trade.

He mentions much flattering attention paid him by a prince of the empire and his wife, who
was the king's sister, both of whom urged him not to return to Rangoon, but to bring his wife
and reside at Ava. In fact, several dignitaries of the empire were so far attracted by the
new theories in religion and science, as to enter into animated discussions with the missionaries
respecting them. The prince above mentioned was an interesting character. Mr. Judson went so
far as boldly to urge upon him the duty of making personal religion his immediate care. For
a moment he was moved, but soon replied, that he was young, only twenty-eight. That he was
desirous of enlarging his mind by an acquaintance with all foreign science, and then he could
judge whether Christianity was worthy of his adoption or not. But, said Mr. Judson, suppose
you change worlds in the meantime? His countenance fell, and he said sadly, "It is true, I
do not know when I shall die."

How true it is that "as in water face answereth to face, so doth the heart of man to man."
Left without excuse, this poor impenitent Burman, like thousands in America, almost, but not
altogether persuaded to be Christians, postponed what he could not but purpose to a more convenient
season.

On another occasion, so many persons of high rank expressed themselves favorably to the Christian
faith that one who had not hitherto ventured to defend the missionaries in the presence of
the king was bold enough to say, "Nearly all the world, your Majesty, believe in an eternal
God; all but Burmah and Siam these little spots!" His Majesty remained silent, and soon abruptly
rose and retired.

Before returning to Rangoon Mr. Judson had an interesting interview with the king. "Why," asked
the latter, "does the teacher return to Rangoon? let him and Price stay together. If one goes,
the other must remain alone, and will be unhappy." Some one present explained that he was going
for his wife and goods, and would soon return. His Majesty said, "Will you then come again?"
and expressed a wish that he should do so and remain permanently. He and Dr. Price had previously
erected a house near Ava on some land granted them by the king, which house was to be occupied
by Dr. P. until Mr. Judson's return.

The following letter from Mr. Judson dated Dec. 7, 1823, announces the arrival of his wife
in Rangoon. "I had the inexpressible happiness of welcoming Mrs. Judson once more to the shores
of Burmah, on the 5th instant. We are now on the eve of departure for Ava.

"My last letter from brother Price mentions that the king has inquired many times about my
delay, and the queen has expressed a strong desire to see Mrs. Judson in her foreign dress.
We sincerely hope her majesty's curiosity will not be confined to dress.

"Mr. and Mrs. Wade appear to be in fine health and spirits, and I am heartily rejoiced at their
arrival just at the present time."

Rumors of a war between the British and Burmans were growing more and more prevalent, and alas,
proved but too well founded. From the very last letter written by Mrs. Judson before this most
unhappy and disastrous war, we shall now make some extracts.

                                        "Ava, February, 10, 1824.

"My Dear Parents and Sisters,

After nearly two years and a half wandering, you will be pleased to hear that I have at last
arrived at home, so far as this life is concerned, and am once more quietly and happily settled
with Mr. Judson. When I retrace the scenes through which I have passed, the immense space I
have traversed, and the various dangers, seen and unseen, from which I have been preserved,
my heart is filled with gratitude and praise to that Being, who has at all times been my protector
and marked out all my way before me.

We had a quick and pleasant passage from Calcutta to Rangoon, and in seven days after our arrival
there we were on our way to this place. Our progress up the river was slow indeed. The season
however is cool and delightful, we were preserved from dangers by day and robbers by night,
and arrived in safety in six weeks. The Irrawaddy is a noble river; we often walked through
the villages on its banks, and though we never received the least insult, we always attracted
universal attention. A foreign female was a sight never before beheld, and all were anxious
that their friends and relations should have a view. Crowds followed us through the villages,
and some less civilized than the others, would run some way before us, in order to have a long
look as we approached them." ... After relating a conversation with the natives on the subject
of religion, and a narrow escape from drowning; she comes to their arrival at Ava, where they
had difficulties such as she had never before experienced. Dr. Price urged their going immediately
to the house he had just erected; but it was of brick, and the walls still so damp that they
did not dare occupy it. She says, "We had but one alternative, and that was to remain in the
boat till they could build a small house on the piece of ground which the king gave to Mr.
J. last year. And you will hardly believe it possible, for I almost doubt my senses, that in
just a fortnight from our arrival, we moved into a house built in that time, which is large
enough to make us comfortable. It is in a most delightful situation, out of the dust of the
town and on the bank of the river.... Our house is in a healthy situation, is raised four feet
from the ground, and consists of three small rooms and a verandah.

We hardly know how we shall bear the hot season which is just commencing, for our house is
built of boards, and before night is heated like an oven. Nothing but brick is a shelter from
the heat at Ava, where the thermometer even in the shade frequently rises to 108 degrees. We
have worship every evening in Burman, when a number of the natives assemble, and every Sabbath
Mr. Judson preaches the other side of the river in Dr. Price's house. We feel it an inestimable
privilege that amid all our discouragements we have the language, and are able constantly to
communicate truths which can save the soul."

She then mentions that she has commenced a female school with three little girls, two of them
given her by their parents, fine children, who improve very rapidly, and that she has a prospect
of more pupils. They did not immediately visit the palace, as the royal family were absent
on a visit at Amarapoora, their old capital, where they were to remain until the new palace
in Ava should be finished. She found her old friend the viceroy's wife now degraded by the
death of her husband to a low rank, but a sensible woman, and more capable, Mrs. J. thought,
of receiving religious truth than when in public life. She adds that in consequence of war
with the Bengal government, foreigners are not in as much esteem at court as formerly--even
Americans shared the same disfavor as Englishmen, for being similar in features, dress, language
and religion, it is not surprising that the Burmans should have confounded them as subjects
of one government. From the circumstance of money being remitted to them through English residents
in Ava, they were even suspected of being paid spies of the East India Company--but this was
at a somewhat later period.

       *       *       *       *       *

The capital of Burmah is not fixed, but changes with the caprice of the monarch, for wherever
he fixes his imperial residence, there, for the time, is the capital. Ava, the former capital,
having been forsaken during the reign of the old king for Amarapoora, was again to be the royal
residence, and for this purpose a magnificent palace had been there erected, of which the emperor
was now to take possession. On these occasions, all the gorgeousness of oriental magnificence
has its full display. Such a scene the missionaires witnessed soon after their arrival at Ava.
The numerous horses, the immense variety of vehicles, the vast number and size of richly caparisoned
elephants, the myriads of people in their gala dresses, the highest officers in the kingdom
drawn from the most distant as well as the nearer provinces to grace the occasion, each in
his robes of state, the magnificent white elephant, caparisoned with silk and velvet, and blazing
with jewels, the king and queen, in simple majesty, alone unadorned amid the gaudy throng,
surpassed any pageant ever exhibited in the western world. Alas! this pomp and pride were soon
to receive a disastrous humiliation.

In 1824 news reached America of the breaking out of war between Burmah and British India. This
of course excited the most anxious interest for the fate of the Americans in that country.
At length anxiety was somewhat relieved by the intelligence that Messrs. Wade and Hough with
their families, who had remained at Rangoon, were, after dreadful sufferings, safe under British
protection. But over the fate of Mr. and Mrs. Judson hung the silence of death, or of a suspense
worse than death, for more than two years, until hope itself died in the hearts of their friends
and kindred.

But although in this long period of doubt and darkness, busy fancy had pictured many scenes
of terror and many forms of violent death, as the possible lot of the missionaries; yet in
her wildest nights she never could have conceived of the terrible reality which they endured,
not for days and weeks only, but for eighteen weary months. The wildest tale of fiction has
never depicted more cruel anguish, more appalling suffering borne with more heroic energy,
and more sublime fortitude--the wildest fiction would not dare to portray woman's love and
faith and Christian hope, so long triumphant over insult and outrage, and torture and death
itself. Who after reading the following narrative of an heroic female's unparalleled endurance,
will ever say that woman's is a feeble nature, incapable of withstanding the rude shocks of
adverse fortune? Nay, who will not rather say, that in woman, hope and faith, and fortitude
and energy, make even the frail body immortal, till her labor of love is accomplished, and
its cherished object is rescued from peril?

       *       *       *       *       *

"The war which now broke out between the Burman government and that of the English in Bengal,
forms an important era in the history of the mission.

"Its first effect was to put an end to the labors of the missionaries, and involve them in
unspeakable sufferings, yet in accordance with a mysterious though beneficent law of human
affairs, its ultimate issues have proved favorable not only to the interests of that particular
mission, but also to the further extension of Christian civilization among the thickly peopled
countries of Eastern India. The war had its origin in feuds which had long existed on the frontiers
of Chittagong." Some Burman criminals had escaped to that territory, where as it was alleged
they were protected by British power. The Burman monarch determined to chastise the English
by making war on their government, and had raised thirty thousand troops under the command
of his greatest warrior Bandula; but the East India Company anticipated his movements, and
landed their forces at Rangoon so suddenly and unexpectedly, that the city fell into their
hands with scarcely a show of resistance. This was the first news that reached Ava of the commencement
of hostilities. It surprised the court there, but by no means alarmed them. Never having come
into collision with the English, and having the most extravagant conceit of their own invincibility,
they did not for a moment doubt their power to drive the invaders from their country; and even
sent by one of their generals a pair of golden fetters with which to chain the governor-general,
and bring him captive to Ava.

The first effect of the intelligence of the war upon the situation of the missionaries, was
an order that no man wearing a hat should enter the palace. This was somewhat startling, still
nothing of importance occurred for several weeks, during which Mrs. J. continued her school,
while her husband went on building a house. But at length suspicion having been excited that
the Englishmen who resided in Ava were spies, they were seized and put in confinement. Dr.
Price and Mr. Judson were strictly examined also, but nothing being proved against them, they
were left at liberty. They might probably have escaped further molestation, had it not been
found in examining the accounts of one of the Englishmen, that he had paid over considerable
money to the missionaries. Ignorant of money transactions as carried on by foreigners, this
was an evidence to the natives, that the teachers were in the pay of the British, and probably
spies. This being represented to the king, he gave an angry order for their arrest.

On the 8th of June, Mr. Judson's house was rudely entered by an officer, followed by eight
or ten men, one of whom, by the hideous tattooing on his face, they knew to be the executioner,
or 'son of the prison.' On seeing Mr. Judson--"You are called by the king," said the officer,
the usual form of arrest. In an instant the spotted-faced man threw him on the floor, and drew
forth that instrument of torture, the small cord. Mrs. Judson tried in vain to bribe him with
money. "Take her too," said the officer, "she also is a foreigner." But this order Mr. Judson
prevailed on them to disregard. All was now confusion and dismay, the children crying, the
neighbors collecting around and in the house, while the executioner bound Mr. Judson with the
cords, and took a fiendish pleasure in making them as tight as possible. Mrs. Judson gave Moung
Ing money that he might follow and procure a mitigation of this torture, instead of which,
Mr. Judson was again thrown down, and the cords so tightened as almost to prevent respiration.
Then he was hurried on to the court-house, thence to "the death prison," into which he was
hurled, and Moung Ing saw him no more.

We may imagine the intolerable agony of Mrs. Judson when the faithful disciple returned with
the sad news of his master's fate. Retiring to her room, she tried to find consolation in casting
her dreadful burden of fear and suspense on her covenant God. But soon her retirement was invaded
by the magistrate of the place, who ordered her to come out and submit to an examination. Of
course she was obliged to obey, but before doing so she destroyed every writing she possessed,
letters, journals, everything, lest her correspondence with her British friends should confirm
the suspicions of their persecutors. When the magistrate had satisfied himself with the examination,
he placed a guard of ten ruffians about the house, with orders that no one should enter or
leave it on pain of death.

Taking her four little Burman girls into an inner room she barred the door, and obstinately
refused to come out, although the guard, bent on tormenting her, threatened to break the door
down if she did not. She prevented this outrage by a threat to complain of their conduct in
the morning to higher authorities, but in revenge they bound her two Bengalee servants fast
in the stocks in a most painful posture. By bribes and promises she at length induced them
to release the servants; but their dreadful carousings, and horrid language, combined with
her suspense in regard to her husband's fate, rendered that long night one of unmitigated wretchedness.
She earnestly but vainly begged the magistrate to allow her to go and state the case to some
government officer; she even wrote a letter to the queen's sister, who was civil, but afraid
to interfere in their behalf. "The day," she says, "wore heavily away, and another dreadful
night was before me. But, haunted by the idea of her dear husband's tortures, which she was
neither permitted to share nor alleviate, she of course passed another night of anguish.

The next day she sent a message to the governor of the city, to allow her to visit him with
a present. This was successful, and the guards had orders to permit her to go into town. She
was pleasantly received, stated the situation of the teachers, and assured the governor that
being not Englishmen but Americans, they had nothing to do with the war. She was referred to
a head officer with whom she might consult as to the means of making the prisoners more comfortable;
but their release was out of the question. The first sight of this officer, whose face exhibited
the working of every evil passion, inspired her with dread, but he was the only one who could
assist her.

Nothing but her own eloquent words can do justice to the transactions that followed. We copy
as before from her letter, written two years subsequent to these events, to her brother-in-law,
Dr. Judson.

As soon as the search was completed, Mrs. Judson hastened to the wife of the queen's brother,
in hopes of having a favorable answer to her petition; but to her heavy disappointment she
learned that the queen had refused to interfere. With a sad heart she turned her steps to the
prison-gate, but here she was denied admittance, and for ten days she found the prison-door
closed against her.

While the officers were at Mr. J.'s house, they had insisted on knowing the sum that had been
paid to bribe the governor to allow the prisoners more liberty. This sum they afterwards demanded
of the governor, which so enraged him that he threatened to thrust them back into the inner prison.

This answer so pleased the wife of the governor, who sat by, that she ever afterwards was a
firm friend to Mrs. Judson. The latter then by the present of a beautiful opera-glass, a gift
from her English friends, and by promises of future presents, induced the governor to let her
husband remain where he was; but poor Dr. Price was confined as at first, and was only relieved
at the end of ten days, by his promising a piece of broadcloth, and presents from Mrs. Judson.

Sometimes she was summoned before the authorities to answer the most absurd charges, and daily
she was subjected to the most harassing annoyance, from the desire of each petty officer to
get money through their misfortunes. She did however in this manner gain friends, who sometimes
assisted her with food, and who tried to destroy the impression that they were concerned in
the war.

The extortions and oppressions to which the prisoners were subject were also indescribable.

In the meantime, the Burmese government was sending army after army down the river to fight
the English; and constantly receiving news of their defeat and destruction. One of its officers,
however, named Bandoola, having been more successful, the king sent for him to Ava, and conferred
on him the command of a very large army, destined against Rangoon. As he was receiving every
demonstration of court favor, Mrs. Judson resolved to wait on him with a petition for the release
of the prisoners. She was received in an obliging manner, and directed to call again when he
should have deliberated on the subject. With the joyful news of her flattering reception, she
flew to the prison, and both she and her husband thought deliverance was at hand. But on going
again with a handsome present to hear his decision, she was informed by his lady--her lord
being absent--that he was now very busy, making preparations for Rangoon, but that when he
had retaken that city, and expelled the English, he would return and release all the prisoners.

This was her last application for their enlargement, though she constantly visited the various
officials with presents in order to make the situation of the prisoners more tolerable. The
governor of the palace used to be so much gratified with her accounts of the manners, customs
and government of America, that he required her to spend many hours of every other day at his
house.

Mrs. Judson had been permitted to make for her husband a little bamboo room in the prison enclosure
far more comfortable than the shed he had occupied and where she sometimes was allowed to spend
a few hours in his society. But her visits both to the prison and to the governor were interrupted
by the birth of a little daughter--truly

    'A child of misery, baptized in tears!'

About this time the Burmese court was thrown into consternation by news of the disastrous defeat
of Bandoola, the vain-glorious chief who was to expel the English from the kingdom; and the
rapid advance of the British troops towards Ava. The first consequence of such intelligence
would of course be increased rigor towards the white prisoners; and accordingly, before she
had regained her strength after her confinement, Mrs. Judson learned that her husband had been
put into the inner prison, in five pairs of fetters, that the room she had made for him had
been torn down, and all his little comforts taken away by his jailers. All the prisoners had
been similarly treated.

Mrs. Judson, feeble as she was, hastened to the governor's house. But in her long absence she
had lost favor; and she was told that she must not ask to have the fetters taken off, or the
prisoners released, for it could not be done. She made a pathetic appeal to the governor, who
was an old man, reminding him of all his former kindness to them, and begging to know why his
conduct was so changed to them now. His hard heart melted and he even "wept like a child."
He then confessed to her that he had often been ordered to assassinate the prisoners privately,
but that he would not do it; and that, come what would, he would never put Mr. Judson to death.
At the same time he was resolute in refusing to attempt any mitigation of his sufferings.

The situation of the prisoners was now horrible in the extreme. There were more than one hundred
of them shut up in one room, with no air but what came through cracks in the boards, and this
in the hot season. Mrs. Judson was sometimes permitted to spend five minutes at the door, but
the sight was almost too horrible to be borne. By incessant intreaties, she obtained permission
for them to eat their food outside, but even this was soon forbidden. After a month passed
in this way, Mr. Judson was seized with fever, and nothing but death was before him unless
he could have more air. Mrs. Judson at length succeeded in putting up another bamboo hut in
the prison enclosure, and by wearing out the governor with her entreaties, she got her husband
removed into it, and though too low for them to stand upright, it seemed to them a palace in
comparison with the prison.

Disastrous news of the war continued to arrive, and at length the death of Bandoola seemed
to be the climax of misfortune. Who could be found to take his place? A government officer,
who had for some time been in disgrace with the king, now came forward with a proposal to conquer
the English and put an end to the war, provided an army was raised on a new plan. His offers
were accepted, and he was clothed with full powers. He was a man of talent and enterprise,
and a violent enemy to foreigners. The missionaries feared everything from his malignancy;
and their fears were but too well founded.

They had been in their comfortable hut but a few days, when Mrs. J. was suddenly summoned before
the governor, and detained by trifling pretexts for some time, in order--as she afterwards
found--to spare her the dreadful scene that was enacted at the prison in her absence. On leaving
him she met a servant running to tell her that all the white prisoners were carried away he
knew not whither. She ran from street to street inquiring for them, until at length she was
informed they were carried to Amarapoora. She hastened to the governor, who professed his ignorance,
but promised to send off a man to inquire their fate; and said significantly, "You can do nothing
more for your husband; take care of yourself." She returned to her room, and sank down almost
in despair. This was the most insupportable day she had passed. She resolved to go to Amarapoora;
packed up some valuables in trunks to leave with the governor; and took leave of Ava, as she
supposed, forever. She obtained a pass for herself and infant, her two Burman girls and cook,
and got on board a boat, which conveyed them within two miles of Amarapoora. There she procured
a cart, but the heat and dust, with the fatigue of carrying her infant, almost deprived her
of reason. But on reaching the court-house, her distress was further aggravated, by finding
that she must go four miles farther to a place called Oung-pen-la. There in an old shattered
building, without a roof, under the burning sun, sat the poor prisoners, chained two and two,
and almost in a dying condition. She prevailed on the jailer to give her a shelter in a wretched
little room half filled with grain, and in that filthy place, without bed, chair, table, or
any other comfort, she spent the next six months of wretchedness.

The account given her by Mr. Judson of his sufferings since she had seen him was almost too
dreadful to repeat. Dragged from the prison, and stripped of their clothing, they were driven
under a broiling sun, over the hot sand and gravel until their naked feet were all one wound,
and they earnestly longed for death to put an end to their tortures. When night came on, finding
that one of the prisoners had dropped dead, and that the others were utterly unable to walk,
their driver had halted till the next morning, and then conveyed them the remainder of the
distance in carts. On arriving and seeing the dilapidated condition of the prison, they confidently
thought they had been brought here for execution, and tried to prepare themselves to meet a
dreadful and perhaps lingering death. From this apprehension they were relieved by seeing preparations
made to repair the prison.

Mrs. Judson had brought from Ava all the money she could command, secreted about her person.
And she records her thankfulness to her Heavenly Father that she never suffered from want of
money, though frequently from want of provisions. Hitherto her health and that of her children
had been good. But now commenced her personal, bodily sufferings. One of the little Burman
girls whom she had adopted, and whom she had named Mary Hasseltine, was attacked on the morning
after her arrival with small-pox. She had been Mrs. Judson's only assistant in the care of
her infant. But now she required all the time that could be spared from Mr. Judson, whose mangled
feet rendered him utterly unable to move. Mrs. Judson's whole time was spent in going back
and forth from the prison to the house with her little Maria in her arms. Knowing that the
other children must have the disease, she inoculated both, and those of the jailer, all of
whom had it lightly except her poor babe, with whom the inoculation did not take, and who had
it the natural way. Before this she had been a healthy child but it was more than three months
before she recovered from the dreadful disorder.

The beneficial effects of inoculation in the case of the jailer's children, caused Mrs. Judson
to be called upon to perform the operation upon all the children in the village. Mr. Judson
gradually recovered, and found his situation much more comfortable than at Ava. But Mrs. Judson,
overcome by watchings, fatigue, miserable food, and still more miserable lodgings, was attacked
by one of the disorders of the country; and though much debilitated, was obliged to set off
in a cart for Ava to procure medicines and suitable food. While there, her disorder increased
so fearfully in violence, that she gave up all hope of recovery, and was only anxious to return
and die near the prison. By the use of laudanum she so far checked the disease, that she was
able to get back to Oung-pen-la, but in such a state that the cook whom she had left to supply
her place, and who came to help her out of the wretched cart in which she had made part of
the journey, was so overwhelmed by her altered and emaciated appearance that he burst into
tears. To this poor cook she was indebted, during the next two months for everything, and even
for her life and that of those dearest to her. He would walk miles to procure and carry food
for the prisoners, then return to do everything he could for Mrs. J. Though a Bengalee, he
forgot his caste, and hesitated not at any office or service which was required of him. It
was afterwards in their power amply to reward him for his labor of love, and they never forgot
their debt of gratitude.

At this time poor little Maria was the greatest sufferer, and her mother's anguish at seeing
her distress while she was unable to relieve it, was indescribable. Deprived of her natural
food by her mother's illness, while not a drop of milk could be procured in the village, her
cries were heart-rending. Sometimes Mr. Judson would prevail on his keepers to let him carry
the emaciated little creature around in his arms, to beg nourishment from those mothers in
the village who had young children. Now indeed was the cup of misery full. While in health,
the active, ardent mind of Mrs. Judson bore up under trials, every new one suggesting some
ingenious expedient to lighten or avert it; but now to see those cherished ones suffering,
and be herself confined by sickness, was almost too much to bear.

It was about this time they learned the death of their enemy, whose elevation to power was
the cause of their removal from Ava, and whose purpose in sending them to Oung-pen-la, was
indeed their destruction. Suspected of high-treason, and of embezzling public money, he was
executed without a moments delay. Another officer was appointed to command the army, but with
far less sanguine expectations of success. After his death, the prisoners were released from
the prison, and conducted to Ava. The cause of the change was soon evident. Mr. Judson was
wanted to act as interpreter between the Burmese government and the advancing army of the British.
For six weeks he was kept in Maloun, steadily at work in translating, and suffering as much
as when in prison except that he was not in irons. Mrs. Judson, who had remained at Ava, was
seized soon after he left her with spotted fever of the most malignant character. She lost
her reason, and for a long time was insensible to everything around her. But she records with
lively gratitude, that just before her senses left her, a Portuguese woman had unexpectedly
come and offered herself as nurse to her little daughter; and about the same time, Dr. Price,
being released from prison, visited her. He represents her situation to have been the most
distressing he ever witnessed, and he had no idea she could survive many hours. At one time
a Burmese neighbor, who had come in with others to see her die, said "She is dead; and if the
King of angels were to come in, he could not recover her." Her head was shaved, blisters were
applied to it and to her feet, and she gradually revived; although the fever having run seventeen
days, she was of course a long time in recovering. When she had in some measure recovered her
composure, she sent Moung Ing to her old friend, the governor of the north gate, begging him
to make one more effort for Mr. Judson. Moung Ing then went in search of 'the teacher,' and
at length found him in an obscure prison.

The English army, which had all along offered peace on condition of the payment of a certain
sum of money, offers which the Burmans had constantly rejected, had now advanced so far as
to threaten the golden city itself. The Burmans were thus compelled to negotiate, and all their
negotiations from beginning to end, "were conducted by Drs. Judson and Price, though they were
often interrupted or entirely broken off by the caprice and jealousy of the Burman monarch
and his officers." The king placing no confidence in the English, and having the most absurd
ideas of his power to force them to his own terms, sent messengers at every stage of their
advance to induce Sir Archibald Campbell to abate his demands and alter his conditions. No
pains was spared to fortify the golden city, even while Dr. Price and other English prisoners
were engaged in the business of negotiation. Mrs. Judson had the pain of seeing their house
without beautiful enclosure of fruits and flowers, entirely destroyed, to make a place for
the erection of cannon.

A new message now arrived from Sir Archibald. The king, who had learned the value of Mr. Judson's
services, declared that those foreigners who were not English, were his people, and should
not go. The missionaries were ordered to go again to the English camp, to propose to them to
take a third of the money and give up their demand for the missionaries; and threatened that
if unsuccessful in their embassy, they and their families should suffer.

Their situation was now truly perilous, for the Burman arrogance was at this time heightened
by the boast of one of their generals, that he would so fortify the ancient city of Pugan,
which lay in the route of the British toward Ava, that they could never advance beyond it;
and that in fact he would destroy or drive them from the country. The invincible English took
the city, however, with perfect ease; and the king being enraged that he had listened for a
moment to the braggart, and thus provoked the British officers, had him executed without ceremony,
and gave out that it was to punish him for violating his command 'not to fight the English.'
The same night, Dr. Price was sent with part of the money, and some of the prisoners, but returned
with the alarming intelligence, that the general was angry, would not communicate with him,
and was marching upon Ava.

All was now confusion in the palace; gold and silver vessels were melted up, and the money
weighed out; and Mr. Judson was hurried into a boat, and sent to the British camp. He was instructed
by the English general that every foreigner who wished to leave the country, must be permitted
to go, or peace would not be made. The members of government now had recourse to solicitation,
and promised to make Mr. Judson a great man if he would remain. To avoid the oduim of expressing
a wish to leave his majesty's service, he told them that Sir Archibald had ordered that all
who desired it, should go; that his wife had often expressed that desire, that she therefore
must be given up, and that he must follow. The prisoners were then all released, and on a cool
moonlight evening, with hearts overflowing with gratitude and joy, they took their passage
down the Irrawady, bidding a final adieu to the scene of their sufferings, the golden city of Ava.

With what delight did they the next morning hail the sight of the steamboat that was to conduct
them to the British camp. "With what unspeakable satisfaction did they again find themselves
surrounded by the comforts and refinements of civilized life." The kindness of General Campbell
was more like that of a father to his own family, than that of a stranger to persons of another
country. Indeed it was to him they owed their final release from Ava, and the recovery of all
their confiscated property. Mrs. Judson thinks no people on earth were ever happier than they
were at that time; the very idea that they were free from Burman treachery and tyranny, and
under British protection, filling them with gratitude and joy too exquisite for expression.
"What shall we render to the Lord for all his benefits to us," was the constant utterance of
their hearts. Peace was soon settled; they left the camp, and after an absence of two years
and three months were again in Rangoon.

In reference to this timid and hesitating hope of some benefit which might possibly accrue
to the cause of missions, from her terrible experience, the remarks of Dr. Dowling in a recent
work, are so appropriate, that we will introduce them here. "Previous to the commencement of
these sufferings, though a few American Baptists were partially awake to the salvation of the
heathen, ... yet the contributions for the mission were meagre, and the interest it had excited
was comparatively small. Something of a thrilling, exciting character was needed to arouse
the churches from their indifference and lethargy; something that should touch their hearts,
by showing them somewhat of the nature and extent of the sacrifices made by those devoted missionaries
whom they were called upon to sustain by their benefactions and their prayers.

"Such a stimulus was afforded, when after two years of painful suspense, during which it was
not known whether the missionaries were dead or alive, the touching recital of their unparalleled
sufferings for Christ's sake, and of their wonderful deliverance, at length burst like an electric
shock upon the American churches. And that shock has not yet spent its force, as we have recently
seen in the effect produced by the simple, silent presence, in the assemblies of the saints,
of the venerated man of God, who can say with an Apostle--'I bear in my body the scars of the
Lord Jesus!'"[4]

That worn veteran had but to arise in a Christian assembly, and a thrill of sympathy was sent
through the audience, and thousands upon thousands of dollars were pledged on the spot to that
cause which his silent presence so powerfully advocated.

Another consequence of the war, was to secure British toleration and protection to a large
territory, hitherto almost inaccessible to the missionaries. Of this we shall speak more fully
hereafter.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following is extracted from a tribute to Mrs. Judson which appeared in a Calcutta paper,
after the war. In the midst of sickness and danger, and every calamity which can crush the
human heart, she presented a character equal to the sternest trial, and an address and a fertility
of resources which gave her an ascendency over the minds of her most cruel enemies, and alone
saved the missionaries and their fellow-captives from the terrible doom which constantly awaited
them."

We will conclude this account of the terrible two years, by an extract from a letter of Mr.
Judson dated Rangoon, March 25, 1826. "Through the kind interposition of our Heavenly Father,
we have been preserved in the most imminent danger, from the hand of the executioner, and in
repeated instances of most alarming illness, during my protracted imprisonment of one year
and seven months, nine months in three pairs of fetters, two months in five, six months in
one, and two months a prisoner at large.... The disciples and inquirers have been dispersed
in all directions. Several are dead; Moung-Shwa-ba has been in the mission-house through the
whole, and Moung Ing with Mrs. Judson at Ava.... I long for the time when we shall enjoy once
more the stated worship and ordinances of the Lord's house."

"One result of the Burman war, was the acquisition by the British of several provinces previously
under the government of the King of Burmah. Thus a safe asylum was provided for the missionaries,
and for the Christian natives where they might worship God in peace, under the shelter of the
English government." One of these provinces was fixed upon as the seat of the mission, and
the new town of Amherst was to be the residence of the missionaries. Native Christian families
began to assemble there, and Mrs. Judson made vigorous preparations to open a school. Mr. Crawford
of the British Embassy after long solicitation, succeeded in persuading Mr. Judson, that by
accompanying him in the capacity of interpreter to the court of Ava he might secure to the
mission certain advantages he had long had greatly at heart, and he reluctantly consented to
go. Leaving Mrs. Judson and her infant daughter in the house of the civil superintendent at
Amherst, he proceeded to the Burman capital. The journey was every way unfortunate; attended
with long delays, and in its result, as far as Mr. Judson was concerned, quite unsuccessful.
But it was chiefly disastrous because it detained him from the sick and dying bed of that devoted
wife to whom he was bound by every tie that can attach human hearts to each other; and compelled
her to end her troubled pilgrimage alone. That God who "moves in a mysterious way," had ordered
it that she who had lived through appalling dangers and threatening deaths until her mission
of love toward those she had cherished so fondly was accomplished, was--now that her trials
seemed nearly ended, and the hopes of her heart seemingly in a train of accomplishment--suddenly
called from the scene of her labors to that of her "exceeding great reward." It was as if a
noble ship after encountering storms and tempests, after being often nearly wrecked, and as
often saved almost by miracle, should when already in port and in sight of anxious spectators,
suddenly sink forever.

In a letter to the corresponding secretary, dated Ava, Dec. 7, 1826, Mr. Judson writes: "The
news of the death of my beloved wife, has not only thrown a gloom over all my future prospects,
but has forever embittered the recollection of the present journey, in consequence of which
I have been absent from her dying bed, and prevented from affording the spiritual comfort which
her lonely circumstances peculiarly required, and of contributing to avert the fatal catastrophe,
which has deprived me of one of the first of women, and best of wives. I commend myself and
motherless child to your sympathy and prayers."

From a letter from Mr. Judson to Mrs. Hasseltine we learn, that when he parted from his wife,
she was in good health and comfortably situated, with happy prospects of a new field of missionary
labor, and the expectation of seeing her husband again in three or four months at farthest.
His last letter from her was dated the 14th of September. She says, "I have this day moved
into the new house, and for the first time since we were broken up at Ava, feel myself at home.
The house is large and convenient, and if you were here I should feel quite happy.... Poor
little Maria is still feeble.... When I ask her where Papa is, she always starts up and points
toward the sea. The servants behave very well, and I have no trouble about anything except
you and Maria. Pray take care of yourself.... May God preserve and bless you, and restore you
again to your new and old home is the prayer of your affectionate Ann." Another letter from
a friend confirmed the statement with regard to his wife's health, though it spoke unfavorably
of that of the child. "But," continues Mr. Judson, "my next communication was a letter with
a black seal, handed me by a person, saying he was sorry to inform me of the death of the child.
I know not whether this was a mistake on his part, or kindly intended to prepare my mind for
the real intelligence. I went to my room, and opened the letter with a feeling of gratitude
and joy, that at any rate the mother was spared. It began thus: 'My dear Sir,--To one who has
suffered so much and with such exemplary fortitude, there needs but little preface to tell
a tale of distress. It were cruel indeed to torture you with doubt and suspense. To sum up
the unhappy tidings in a few words--Mrs. Judson is no more.' At intervals," continues Mr. Judson,
"I got through the dreadful letter and proceed to give you the substance, as indelibly engraven
on my heart." After adding that her disease was a violent fever, which baffled the skill of
the physicians and after eighteen days carried her to the grave, he continues: "You perceive
I have no account whatever of the state of her mind in view of death and eternity, or of her
wishes concerning her darling babe, whom she loved most intensely. I will not trouble you,
my dear mother, with an account of my own private feelings--the bitter, heart-rending anguish,
which for some days would not admit of mitigation, and the comfort which the Gospel subsequently
afforded, the Gospel of Jesus Christ which brings life and immortality to light."

After his return to Amherst, Mr. Judson writes: "Amid the desolation that death has made, I
take up my pen to address once more the mother of my beloved Ann. I am sitting in the house
she built--in the room where she breathed her last--and at a window from which I see the tree
that stands at the head of her grave.... Mr. and Mrs. Wade are living in the house, having
arrived here about a month after Ann's death, and Mrs. W. has taken charge of my poor motherless
Maria.... When I arrived Mr. Wade met me at the landing-place, and as I passed on to the house,
one and another of the native Christians came out, and when they saw me they began to weep.
At length we reached the house; and I almost expected to see my love coming out to meet me
as usual, but no, I only saw in the arms of Mrs. Wade, a poor puny child, who could not recognize
her father, and from whose infant mind had long been erased all recollection of the mother
who loved her so much. She turned away from me in alarm, and I, obliged to seek comfort elsewhere,
found my way to the grave, but who ever obtained comfort there? Thence I went to the house
in which I left her; and looked at the spot where last we knelt in prayer, and where we exchanged
the parting kiss....

"It seems that her head was much affected and she said but little. She sometimes complained
thus: 'The teacher is long in coming, and the missionaries are long in coming, I must die alone
and leave my little one, but as it is the will of God, I acquiesce in his will. I am not afraid
of death, but I am afraid I shall not be able to bear these pains. Tell the teacher that the
disease was most violent, and I could not write; tell him how I suffered and died; tell him
all you see.'... When she could not notice anything else, she would still call the child to
her, and charge the nurse to be kind to it, and indulge it in everything till its father should
return. The last day or two she lay almost senseless and motionless, on one side, her head
reclining on her arm, her eyes closed, and at eight in the evening, with one exclamation of
distress in the Burman language, she ceased to breathe."

From the physician who attended her he afterwards learned that the fatal termination of her
disease, was chiefly owing to the weakness of her constitution occasioned by the severe privations,
and long-protracted sufferings which she endured at Ava. "And oh!" adds her husband, "With
what meekness, patience magnanimity and Christian fortitude, she bore those sufferings; and
can I wish they had been less? Can I sacriligiously wish to rob her crown of a single gem?
Much she saw and suffered of the evils of this evil world; and eminently was she qualified
to relish and enjoy the pure and holy rest into which she has entered. True she has been taken
from a sphere in which she was singularly qualified, by her natural disposition, her winning
manners, her devoted zeal, and her perfect acquaintance with the language, to be extensively
serviceable to the cause of Christ; true she has been torn from her husband's bleeding heart
and from her darling babe; but infinite wisdom and love have presided, as ever, in this most
afflicting dispensation. Faith decides that all is right."

To show that Mrs. Judson was already appreciated as she deserved by the European society in
Amherst, we will subjoin part of a letter from Captain F. of that place to a friend in Rangoon:
"I shall not attempt to give you an account of the gloom which the death of this amiable woman
has thrown over our little society, you who were so well acquainted with her, will feel her
loss more deeply; but we had just known her long enough to value her acquaintance as a blessing
in this remote corner. I dread the effect it will have on poor Judson. I am sure you will take
every care that this mournful intelligence may be opened to him as carefully as possible."

In the Calcutta Review of 1848, we find this noble tribute to her memory: "Of Mrs. Judson little
is known in the noisy world. Few comparatively are acquainted with her name, few with her actions,
but if any woman since the first arrival of the white strangers on the shores of India, has
on that great theatre of war, stretching between the mouth of the Irrawady and the borders
of the Hindoo Kush, rightly earned for herself the title of a heroine, Mrs. Judson has, by
her doings and sufferings, fairly earned the distinction--a distinction, be it said, which
her true woman's nature would have very little appreciated. Still it is right that she should
be honored by the world. Her sufferings were far more unendurable, her heroism far more noble,
than any which in more recent times have been so much pitied and so much applauded; but she
was a simple missionary's wife, an American by birth, and she told her tale with an artless
modesty--writing only what it became her to write, treating only of matters that became a woman.
Her captivity, if so it can be called, was voluntarily endured. She of her own free will shared
the sufferings of her husband, taking to herself no credit for anything she did; putting her
trust in God, and praying to him to strengthen her human weakness. She was spared to breathe
once again the free air of liberty, but her troubles had done the work of death on her delicate
frame, and she was soon translated to heaven. She was the real heroine. The annals in the East
present us with no parallel."

On the 26th of April, Mr. Judson writes, "My sweet little Maria lies by the side of her fond
mother. Her complaint proved incurable. The work of death went forward, and after the usual
process, excruciating to a parent's feelings, she ceased to breathe on the 24th inst., at 3
o'clock P.M., aged 2 years and 3 months. We then closed her faded eyes, and bound up her discolored
lips, and folded her little hands--the exact pattern of her mother's--on her cold breast. The
next morning we made her last bed, under the hope tree, (Hopia,) in the small enclosure which
surrounds her mother's lonely grave."

Many months later he wrote; "You ask many questions about our sufferings at Ava, but how can
I answer them now? There would be some pleasure in reviewing those scenes if she were alive;
now I can not. The only reflection that assuages the anguish of retrospection is, that she
now rests far away, where no spotted-faced executioner can fill her heart with terror; where
no unfeeling magistrate can extort the scanty pittance which she had preserved through every
risk to sustain her fettered husband and famishing babe; no more exposed to lie on a bed of
languishment, stung with the uncertainty what would become of her poor husband and child when
she was gone. No, she has her little ones around her, I trust, and has taught them to praise
the source whence their deliverance flowed. Her little son, his soul enlarged to angel's size,
was perhaps first to meet her at heaven's portals, and welcome his mother to his own abode--and
her daughter followed her in six short months." ... "And when we all meet in Heaven--when all
have arrived, and we find all safe, forever safe, and our Saviour ever safe and glorious, and
in him all his beloved--oh shall we not be happy, and ever praise him who has endured the cross
to wear and confer such a crown!"

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 4: Alluding to Dr. Judson's visit to America.]

PART II.

THE LIFE OF SARAH B. JUDSON.

SECOND WIFE OF

REV. ADONIRAM JUDSON, D.D.

(Extract of a Letter from Mr. Judson.)

"I exceedingly regret that there is no portrait of the second as of the first Mrs. Judson.
Her soft blue eyes, her mild aspect, her lovely face and elegant form, have never been delineated
on canvass. They must soon pass away from the memory even of her children, but they will remain
forever enshrined in her husband's heart."

CHAPTER I.

BIRTH AND EDUCATION.--POETICAL TALENT.

In an article in the North American Review of 1835, we find the following admirable sentiments:
"It is impossible to peruse the written life of any man or woman who has manifested great intellectual
or moral power, whether in a holy cause or an unholy one, without a strong admiration and a
deep sympathy, and a powerful impulse toward imitation. The soul is awakened, the active powers
are roused, the contemplation of high achievement kindles emulation; and well would it be were
the character of those leading minds, which thus draw after them the mass of mankind, always
virtuous and noble. But in the vast majority of instances, the leaders of mankind, are individuals
whose principles and motives the Christian must condemn, as hostile to the spirit of the gospel.
More precious therefore, is the example of that pious few who have devoted themselves with
pure hearts fervently, to the glory of God, and the good of man, and whose energy of purpose,
and firmness of principle, and magnanimity in despising difficulty and danger, and suffering
and death, in the accomplishment of a noble end, rouse into active admiration all who contemplate
their glorious career."

Such a 'glorious career' was that of the honored missionary whose life has been sketched in
the former part of this volume; and such too was hers who forms the subject of the present
memoir. Sarah B. Hall was the eldest of thirteen children. Her parents were Ralph and Abiah
Hall, who removed during her infancy from Alstead, New Hampshire, the place of her birth, to
Salem, in the State of Massachusetts. Her parents not being wealthy, she was early trained
to those habits of industry, thoughtfulness and self-denial which distinguished her through
life. Children so situated are sometimes pitied by those who consider childhood as the proper
season for careless mirth and reckless glee; but they often form characters of solid excellence
rarely possessed by those to whom fortune has been more indulgent. Their struggle with obstacles
in the way of improvement, and final triumph over them, is an invaluable preparation for the
rude conflicts of life; their ingenuity is quickened by the hourly necessity of expedients
to meet emergencies, and the many trials which are unavoidable in their circumstances, and
which must be met with energy and resolution, give habits of patient endurance, and noble courage.

From all the accounts which we have of her, Sarah must have been a most engaging child. Gentle
and affectionate in disposition, and persuasive and winning in manners, there was yet an ardor
and enthusiasm in her character, combined with a quiet firmness and perseverance, that ensured
success in whatever she attempted, and gave promise of the lofty excellence to which she afterwards
attained. All who have sketched her character notice one peculiarity--and it is one which commonly
attends high merit--her modest unobtrusiveness.

She was very fond of little children, and easily won their affections; but showed little disposition
even in childhood, to mingle in the sports of those of her own age. This arose from no want
of cheerfulness in her bosom; but from a certain thoughtfulness, and fondness for intellectual
exercises which were early developed in her character.

Her principle, as well as her fondness for her mother, led her never to shrink from what are
termed domestic duties, but her heart was not in them as it was in study and meditation. An
illustration of this trait was recently related by her brother. Sarah was repeating some lines
on the death of Nancy Cornelius, which attracted the attention of her mother, who asked her
where she had learned them. With some hesitation the child confessed that she had composed
them the day before, while engaged in some domestic avocation, during which her unusual abstracedness
had been noticed. Her early poetical attempts evince uncommon facility in versification; and
talent, that if cultivated might have placed her high in the ranks of those who have trod the
flowery paths of literature; but hers was a higher vocation; and poetry, which was the delightful
recreation of her childhood, and never utterly neglected in her riper years, was never to her
anything more than a recreation.

Her effusions at the age of thirteen are truly remarkable, when we consider the circumstances
under which they were written. One, which is given by her biographer as it was probably amended
by the 'cultivated taste of later years,' now lies before me as it was first written; and the
improved copy, though greatly superior in beauty to the first, seems to me to lack the vigor
and energy, which more than atone for the many blemishes of the other. Our readers shall judge.
We insert the childish composition; the other is to be found in her graceful memoir by 'Fanny
Forrester.' She calls it "a Versification of David's lament over Saul and Jonathan."

    The 'beauty of Israel' forever is fled,
      And low lie the noble and strong;
    Ye daughters of music encircle the dead,
      And chant the funereal song.

    O never let Gath know their sorrowful doom,
      Nor Askelon hear of their fate;
    Their daughters would scoff while we lay in the tomb,
      The relics of Israel's great.

    As strong as young lions were they in the field;
      Like eagles they never knew fear;
    As dark autumn clouds were the studs of their shield,
      And swifter than wind flew their spear.

    My brother, my friend, must I bid thee adieu!
      Ah yes, I behold thy deep wound--
    Thy bosom, once warm as my tears that fast flow,
      Is colder than yonder clay mound.

    Ye mountains of Gilboa, never may dew
      Descend on your verdure so green;
    Loud thunder may roar, and fierce lightning may glow
      But never let showers be seen.

    Your verdure may scorch in the bright blazing sun,
      The night-blast may level your wood;
    For beneath it, unhallowed, were broken and thrown
      The arms of the chosen of God.

    Ye daughters of Israel, snatch from your brow
      Those garlands of eglantine fair;
    Let cypress and nightshade, the emblems of woe.
      Be wreathed in your beautiful hair.

Some other effusions, probably of a later date, we will here insert, not only for their merit,
but to show what those powers were which she sacrificed, when she turned from the cultivation
of her fancy to that of her higher and nobler faculties.

    ENCAMPMENT OF ISRAELITES AT ELIM.

    "Slowly and sadly, through the desert waste,
    The fainting tribes their dreary pathway traced;
    Far as the eye could reach th' horizon round,
    Did one vast sea of sand the vision bound.
    No verdant shrub, nor murmuring brook was near,
    The weary eye and sinking soul to cheer;
    No fanning zephyr lent its cooling breath,
    But all was silent as the sleep of death;
    Their very footsteps fell all noiseless there
    As stifled by the moveless, burning air;
    And hope expired in many a fainting breast,
    And many a tongue e'en Egypt's bondage blest.
    Hark! through the silent waste, what murmur breaks?
    What scene of beauty 'mid the desert wakes?
    Oh! 'tis a fountain! shading trees are there.
    And their cool freshness steals out on the air!
    With eager haste the fainting pilgrims rush,
    Where Elim's cool and sacred waters gush;
    Prone on the bank, where murmuring fountains flow,
    Their wearied, fainting, listless forms they throw,
    Deep of the vivifying waters drink,
    Then rest in peace and coolness on the brink,
    While the soft zephyrs, and the fountain's flow,
    Breathe their sweet lullaby in cadence low.
    Oh! to the way-worn pilgrim's closing eyes,
    How rare the beauty that about him lies!
    Each leaf that quivers on the waving trees,
    Each wave that swells and murmurs in the breeze,
    Brings to his grateful heart a thrill of bliss,
    And wakes each nerve to life and happiness.
    When day's last flush had faded from the sky,
    And night's calm glories rose upon the eye,
    Sweet hymns of rapture through the palm-trees broke,
    And the loud timbrels deep response awoke;
    Rich, full of melody the concert ran,
    Of praise to God, of gratitude in man,
    While, as at intervals, the music fell,
    Was heard, monotonous, the fountain's swell,
    That in their rocky shrines, flowed murmuring there,
    And song and coolness shed along the air;
    Night mantled deeper, voices died away,
    The deep-toned timbrel ceased its thrilling sway;
    And there, beside, no other music gushing,
    Were heard the solitary fountains rushing,
    In melody their song around was shed,
    And lulled the sleepers on their verdant bed."

    "COME OVER AND HELP US."

    "Ye, on whom the glorious gospel,
      Shines with beams serenely bright,
    Pity the deluded nations,
      Wrapped in shades of dismal night;
    Ye, whose bosoms glow with rapture,
      At the precious hopes they bear;
    Ye, who know a Saviour's mercy,
      Listen to our earnest prayer!

    See that race, deluded, blinded,
      Bending at yon horrid shrine;
    Madness pictured in their faces,
      Emblems of the frantic mind;
    They have never heard of Jesus,
      Never to th' Eternal prayed;
    Paths of death and woe they're treading,
      Christian! Christian! come and aid!

    By that rending shriek of horror
      Issuing from the flaming pile,
    By the bursts of mirth that follow,
      By that Brahmin's fiend-like smile
    By the infant's piercing cry,
      Drowned in Ganges' rolling wave;
    By the mother's tearful eye,
      Friends of Jesus, come and save!

    By that pilgrim, weak and hoary,
      Wandering far from friends and home
    Vainly seeking endless glory
      At the false Mahomet's tomb;
    By that blind, derided nation,
      Murderers of the Son of God,
    Christians, grant us our petition,
      Ere we lie beneath the sod!

    By the Afric's hopes so wretched,
      Which at death's approach shall fly
    By the scalding tears that trickle
      From the slave's wild sunken eye
    By the terrors of that judgment,
      Which shall fix our final doom;
    Listen to our cry so earnest;--
      Friends of Jesus, come, oh, come

    By the martyrs' toils and sufferings,
      By their patience, zeal, and love;
    By the promise of the Mighty,
      Bending from His throne above;
    By the last command so precious,
      Issued by the risen God;
    Christians! Christians! come and help us,
      Ere we lie beneath the sod!"

Sarah, from her earliest years took great delight in reading. At four years, says her brother,
she could read readily in any common book. Her rank in her classes in school was always high,
and her teachers felt a pleasure in instructing her. On one occasion, when about thirteen,
she was compelled to signify to the principal of a female seminary, that her circumstances
would no longer permit her to enjoy its advantages. The teacher, unwilling to lose a pupil
who was an honor to the school, and who so highly appreciated its privileges, remonstrated
with her upon her intention, and finally prevailed on her to remain. Soon after she commenced
instructing a class of small children, and was thus enabled to keep her situation in the seminary,
without sacrificing her feelings of independence.

Her earliest journals, fragmentary as they are, disclose a zeal and ardor in self-improvement
exceedingly unusual. "My mother cannot spare me to attend school this winter, but I have begun
to pursue my studies at home." Again: "My parents are not in a situation to send me to school
this summer, so I must make every exertion in my power to improve at home." Again, in a note
to a little friend, "I feel very anxious to adopt some plan for our mutual improvement." How
touching are these simple expressions! How severely do they rebuke the apathy of thousands
of young persons, who allow golden opportunities of improvement to slip away from then forever--opportunities
which to Sarah Hall and such as she, were of priceless value! Yet it is not one of the least
of the compensations with which the providence of God abounds, that the very lack of favorable
circumstances is sometimes most favorable to the development of latent resources. Thus it was
with Sarah. Her whole career shows that her mind had been early trained and disciplined in
that noblest of all schools, the school of adverse fortune.

CHAPTER II.

CONVERSION.--BIAS TOWARD A MISSIONARY LIFE.--ACQUAINTANCE WITH MR. BOARDMAN.

Amiable as she was, and conscientious in a degree not usual, Sarah knew that "yet one thing
she lacked;" and this knowledge often disquieted her. But her first deep and decided convictions
of sin, seem to have been produced, about the year 1820, under the preaching of Mr. Cornelius.
Her struggles of mind were fearful, and she sunk almost to the verge of despair; but hope dawned
at last, and she was enabled to consecrate her whole being to the service of her Maker. She
soon after united with the first Baptist church in Salem, under the care of Dr. Bolles.

The missionary spirit was early developed in her heart. Even before her conversion, her mind
was often exercised with sentiments of commiseration for the situation of ignorant heathen
and idolaters; and after that event it was the leading idea of her life.

The cause of this early bias is unknown, but it was shown in her conversations, her letters
and notes to friends, and in her early poetical effusions. She even tremblingly investigated
her own fitness to became a vessel of mercy to the far off, perishing heathen; and then, shrinking
from what seemed to her the presumptuous thought, she gave herself with new zeal to the work
of benefitting these immediately around her. "Shortly after her conversion," says her brother,
"she observed the destitute condition of the children in the neighborhood in which she resided.
With the assistance of some young friends as teachers, she organized and continued through
the favorable portions of the year, a Sunday-school, of which she assumed the responsibility
of superintendent; and at the usual annual celebrations, she with her teachers and scholars
joined in the exercises which accompany that festival."

"It is my ardent desire," she writes to a friend, "that the glorious work of reformation may
extend till every knee shall bow to the living God. For this expected, this promised era, let
us pray earnestly, unceasingly, and with faith. How can I be so inactive, when I know that
thousands are perishing in this land of grace; and millions in other lands are at this very
moment kneeling before senseless idols!"

And in her journal--"Sinners perishing all around me, and I almost panting to tell the far
heathen of Christ! Surely this is wrong. I will no longer indulge the vain foolish wish, but
endeavor to be useful in the position where Providence has placed me. I can pray for deluded
idolaters, and for those who labor among them, and this is a privilege indeed."

This strong bias of her mind toward a missionary life, was well known to her mother, who still
remembers with a tender interest an incident connected with it. Sarah had been deeply affected
by the death of Colman, who in the midst of his labors among the heathen, had suddenly been
called to his reward. Some time afterward she returned from an evening meeting, and with a
countenance radiant with joy, announced--what her pastor had mentioned in the meeting--that
a successor to Colman had been found; a young man in Maine named Boardman had determined to
raise and bear to pagan Burmah the standard which had fallen from his dying hand. With that
maternal instinct which sometimes forebodes a future calamity however improbable, her mother
turned away from her daughter's joyous face, for the thought flashed involuntarily through
her mind, that the young missionary would seek as a companion of his toils, a kindred spirit;
and where would he find one so congenial as the lovely being before her?

Her fears were realized. Some lines written by "the enthusiastic Sarah" on the death of Colman,
met the eye of the "young man in Maine," who was touched and interested by the spirit which
breathes in them, and did not rest till he had formed an acquaintance with their author. This
acquaintance was followed by an engagement; and in about two years Sarah's ardent aspirations
were gratified--she was a missionary to the heathen.

But we are anticipating events; and will close this chapter with extracts from the "Lines on
the death of Colman," of which we have spoken.

    "'Tis the voice of deep sorrow from India's shore
      The flower of our churches is withered, is dead,
    The gem that shone brightly will sparkle no more,
      And the tears of the Christian profusely are shed
    Two youths of Columbia, with hearts glowing warm
      Embarked on the billows far distant to rove,
    To bear to the nations all wrapp'd in thick gloom,
      The lamp of the gospel--the message of love.
    But Wheelock now slumbers beneath the cold wave,
    And Colman lies low in the dark cheerless grave.
            Mourn, daughters of India, mourn!
          The rays of that star, clear and bright,
            That so sweetly on Arracan shone
          Are shrouded in black clouds of night,
                  For Colman is gone!

           *       *       *       *       *

    Oh Colman! thy father weeps not o'er thy grave;
      Thy heart riven mother ne'er sighs o'er thy dust;
    But the long Indian grass o'er thy far tomb shall wave,
      And the drops of the evening descend on the just.
    Cold, silent and dark is thy narrow abode--
      But not long wilt thou sleep in that dwelling of gloom,
    For soon shall be heard the great trump of our God
      To summon all nations to hear their last doom;
    A garland of amaranth then shall be thine,
    And thy name on the martyrs' bright register shine.
            O what glory will burst on thy view
          When are placed by the Judge of the earth,
            The flowers that in India grew
          By thy care, in the never-pale wreath
                  Encircling thy brow!

CHAPTER III.

ACCOUNT OF GEORGE DANA BOARDMAN.

We need offer no apology for turning aside from the immediate subject of our narrative, in
order to introduce to our readers one, who must henceforth share with her our sympathy and
our affection; we mean George Dana Boardman--the successor to Colman spoken of in the last chapter.

He was the son of a Baptist clergyman in Livermore, Maine, and was born in 1801. Though feeble
in body, he had an ardent thirst for knowledge, which often made him conceal illness for fear
of being detained from school. At a suitable age, he was sent to an academy in North Yarmouth,
where he became distinguished for ardor in the pursuit of learning, and fine mental powers.
It is related, that he went through the Latin grammar with surprising rapidity, and then expected
to be allowed to use the Lexicon, but was told he must go through the grammar once or twice
more. Disappointed, he returned to his seat, and in an hour or two was called up to recite,
when he repeated verbatim sixteen pages of the grammar. His preceptor inquired if he had got
more; he answered yes; and on being asked how much, replied, "I can recite the whole book,
sir, if you wish!" He afterwards manifested equal power in mathematics. At sixteen, he engaged
in school-teaching, in order to obtain means for a collegiate course--the great object of his
ambition--and in this employment he manifested a knowledge of human nature and of the influences
which control it, truly wonderful. The most turbulent and disorderly schools, became, in his
hands, models of system and regularity.

In 1819, when 18 years old, he entered Waterville College, Maine. He was at this time a youth
of good principles, inflexible purpose, strong affections, and independent opinions, but had
hitherto given no evidence of piety. "But in this institution his thoughts were directed by
a variety of circumstances, to a consideration of the vast and important topics of evangelical
religion. His room-mate was a very pious and most warm-hearted man. The officers of the college
did all in their power to elevate his thoughts and affections. In short, every external influence
with which a young man could be surrounded, was calculated to lead his mind heavenward. Under
the operation of these causes, he was by the Spirit of God, induced to consecrate himself,
soul, body, and spirit, to religion; and in 1820, he made a public profession of his belief
and was baptized."[5]

From his letters and journals, we find that he soon turned his thoughts to the subject of missions.
"In the winter of 1820," he says, "the thought occurred to me that I could take my Bible, and
travel through new settlements where the Gospel was seldom or never heard, and without sustaining
the name of a preacher, could visit from hut to hut, and tell the story of Jesus' dying love.
Then in imagination, I could welcome fatigue, hunger, cold, solitude, sickness and death, if
I could only win a few cottagers to my beloved Saviour."

When the news of the death of Mr. Judson's fellow missionary, Colman, reached America, his
soul was filled with desire to supply the place of that beloved laborer in the Burman field.
Still his chief aim was to leave the place of his labors entirely to the guidance of Providence.
On graduating at college, he accepted the office of tutor in it for one year, and so great
was the promise of his future eminence, that the good president predicted that he would, at
a future day, preside over the institution. But his heart was fixed on other labor, and as
soon as his engagement was completed, he hastened to offer his services to the Board of Foreign
Missions, and was at once accepted as a missionary.

The parting scene between Boardman and his religious friends in Waterville, who had assembled
to bid him farewell is said by one present on that occasion, to have been exceedingly touching.
"The eye of Boardman was alone undimmed by a tear. In a tender and yet unfaltering tone he
addressed a few words to his brethren. We all knelt down in prayer together for the last time.
On arising, Boardman passed round the room, and gave to each his hand for the last time. His
countenance was serene, his mild blue eye beamed with benignity, and though there was in his
manner a tenderness which showed he had a heart to feel, yet there was no visible emotion till
he came to his room-mate. As he took him by the hand, his whole frame became convulsed, his
eye filled, and the tears fell fast, as if all the tender feelings of his spirit, till now
imprisoned, had at this moment broken forth--'farewell!' he faltered; and then smiling through
his tears, said, as he left the room, 'we shall meet again in Heaven.'"

He had expected immediately to leave America for Burmah, in the same ship which was to take
Mrs. Judson back to that country, but the Board decided to detain him some time in this country
for further preparation. In June, 1823, he entered on theological studies in the seminary at
Andover, and employed all his leisure hours in reading those books in the library which treated
of the manners, customs, and religions of heathen countries.

In the spring of 1825 he was called to bid his country farewell. Natural affection was strong,
but the call of duty was stronger still. In a letter he says, "If tenderness of feeling--if
ardor of affection--if attachment to friends, to Christian society and Christian privileges--if
apprehension of toil and danger in a missionary life--if an overwhelming sense of responsibility
could detain me in America, I should never go to Burmah." And in his journal--"Welcome separations
and farewells; welcome tears; welcome last sad embraces; welcome pangs and griefs; only let
me go where my Saviour calls and goes himself; welcome toils, disappointments, fatigues and
sorrows; WELCOME AN EARLY GRAVE!"

       *       *       *       *       *

It is easy to imagine that the sympathy and affection between two souls constituted like Miss
Hall's and Mr. Boardman's, both of whom were warmed by the same zeal for the cause of Christ
and the welfare of the heathen, would be unusually strong; and indeed there is every evidence,
that from the time they became fully acquainted, the most tender attachment subsisted between
them. "You know," she wrote long afterward to her mother, "how tenderly I loved him;" and to
an intimate friend, he said in a private conversation, "It was not the superiority of her personal
charms, though these were by no means small, but it was her intrinsic excellence, heightened
by her modest, unobtrusive spirit, that endeared her to my heart." The eldest of a large family--arrived
at an age when she could not only share her mother's duties and labors, but be to her a sympathizing
friend--possessed of every quality which could endear her to her parents' hearts--emphatically
their joy and pride--how could they resign her--especially how could they consent to her life-long
exile from her native land; to end perchance in a cruel martyrdom on a heathen shore? Can we
wonder that the mother clinging to her daughter's neck, exclaimed, "I cannot, cannot part with
you!" or that the moment of departure must arrive, before she could falter, "My child, I hope
I am willing?"

Her own feelings on leaving the home of her youth with him who was henceforth to supply to
her the place of all other friends, are breathed in these graceful lines.

    "When far from those whose tender care
      Protected me from ills when young;
    And far from those who love to hear
      Affection from a sister's tongue;

    When on a distant heathen shore,
      The deep blue ocean I shall see;
    And know the waves which hither bore
      Our bark, have left me none but thee;
    Perhaps a thought of childhood's days
      Will cause a tear to dim my eye;
    And fragments of forgotten lays
      May wake the echo of a sigh.
    Oh! wilt thou then forgive the tear?
      Forgive the throbbings of my heart?
    And point to those blest regions, where
      Friends meet, and never, never part!

    And when shall come affliction's storm,
      When some deep, unexpected grief
    Shall pale my cheek, and waste my form,
      Then wilt thou point to sweet relief?

    And wilt thou, then, with soothing voice,
      Of Jesus' painful conflicts tell?
    And bid my aching heart rejoice,
      In these kind accents--'All is well?'
    When blooming health and strength shall fly
      And I the prey of sickness prove,
    Oh! wilt thou watch with wakeful eye,
      The dying pillow of thy love?

    And when the chilling hand of death
      Shall lead me to my house in heaven
    And to the damp, repulsive earth,
      In cold embrace, this form be given;
    Oh, need I ask thee, wilt thou then,
      Upon each bright and pleasant eve,
    Seek out the solitary glen,
      To muse beside my lonely grave?
    And while fond memory back shall steal,
      To scenes and days forever fled;
    Oh, let the veil of love conceal
      The frailties of the sleeping dead.

    And thou may'st weep and thou may'st joy,
      For 'pleasant is the joy of grief;'
    And when thou look'st with tearful eye
      To heaven, thy God will give relief.

    Wilt thou, then, kneel beside the sod
      Of her who kneels with thee no more,
    And give thy heart anew to God,
      Who griefs unnumbered for thee bore?
    And while on earth thy feet shall rove,
      To scenes of bliss oft raise thine eye,
    Where, all-absorbed in holy love,
      I wait to hail thee to the sky."

On the 3d of July, 1825, the marriage took place, Miss Hall being then 21 years old, and Mr.
Boardman 24. His slender figure, and transparent complexion, even then seemed to indicate that
his mission on earth might soon be fulfilled, but both he and his bride were young and sanguine,
and no misgivings for the future disturbed their happiness in each other. Indeed the grief
of parting with all they had ever loved and cherished, though chastened by submission to what
they believed the Divine call, was sufficient to merge all lighter causes of anxiety.

On the day following their marriage they left Salem for the place of embarkation. They were
to sail first to Calcutta, and if on reaching there the troubles in Burmah should prevent their
going at once to that country, they were to remain in Calcutta, and apply themselves to the
acquisition of the Burman language.

In expectation of their speedy departure, meetings for special prayer were held at Boston,
Salem, New York, and Philadelphia. The spirit which animated these meetings, and breathed in
all the supplications offered, was indicative of deep interest in the mission, and of united
and determined resolution, by the grace of God to support it. Mr. and Mrs. B. were everywhere
received with the utmost kindness, and nothing was withheld which could contribute to animate
them in their arduous undertaking, and render their future voyage pleasant and healthful. The
captain and other officers of the ship Asia in which they were to sail, made the most ample
provision for their comfort and accommodation, and rendered them every attention in a manner
most grateful to their feelings. At a concert of prayer in Philadelphia, Mr. Boardman was called
upon to give a brief account to the audience of the motives which had induced him to devote
his life to the missionary service. In his reply, he took occasion in the first place to acknowledge
the goodness of God to him through his whole life. When he entered Waterville College--the
first student ever admitted there not hopefully pious--his fellow-students, impressed with
this fact, solemnly engaged with each other, unknown to him, to remember him in their supplications,
until their prayers for his conversion should be answered. Six months from that time he found
peace in believing, and his first prayer was that God would make him useful. His mind was so
impressed with the condition of our Indian tribes, that he felt inclined to carry to them the
message of salvation. But his venerable father, whom he consulted as to his duty, advised him
"to wait on God, and He would conduct him in the right way." After some time, his choice was
decided in favor of the Burman mission by such indications, that he considered his call to
this service distinctly and plainly marked. He adverted in a very tender manner to some peculiar
indications of Providence, especially to the manner in which his parents received the knowledge
of his determination. Their remark was, It has long been our desire to do something for the
mission; and if God will accept our son, we make the surrender with cheerfulness.[6]

In reading this account, do we not feel emotions of moral sublimity in contemplating these
tender and aged parents, who, "moved with love for a benevolent God, and for their fellow-creatures,
surrender their son bright with talents and virtues, rich in learning and in the respect of
all who knew him, but feeble and sickly in body, to the missionary labor--whose certain and
speedy end is death?"[7]

Mrs. Boardman with her husband took her final leave of her beloved native land on the 16th
of July, 1825. To her sister, when two weeks out at sea, she writes: "We think we never enjoyed
better health. That beneficent Parent, who is ever doing us good, has bestowed upon us, in
the officers of the ship, obliging and affectionate friends.... Everything regarding our table,
is convenient and agreeable as we could enjoy on shore. Our family consists of the captain,
two mates, two supercargoes, a physician, Mrs. Fowler, and ourselves. Mr. Blaikie, the chief
supercargo, is not only a gentleman, but is decidedly pious, and strictly evangelical in his
sentiments.... It is a great comfort to each of us to find one who is ever ready to converse
upon those subjects which relate to the extension of the Redeemer's kingdom. It is most grateful
to my own feelings, but I am even more rejoiced for the sake of Mr. B. Religious society has
ever been to him a source of much real gratification. You know very well the love he has ever
manifested for social intercourse. When in America amidst our beloved friends, as I have seen
him enter with all his heart into conversation--have seen joy beam from his eyes when engaged
in this delightful employment--I would sigh, and say to myself, dear Mr. B. how sad you will
be when far removed from those whose words now so often cheer your heart. What will you do
when this favorite rill of pleasure ceases to flow? But God is infinitely good, he is far better
to us than our fears. He bestows upon us every blessing essential to our happiness and usefulness.
It is not the want of privileges that I need lament, but the misimprovement of them."

In another letter, she expresses her mature conviction that the missionary life if entered
upon with right feelings may be more favorable than any other to the promotion of spiritual
growth. And certain it is, that trials, and even persecution often develop the power of Christian
principle, and the strength of religious faith; while ease and outward prosperity seem to lull
the souls of believers into an unworthy sloth and a sinful conformity with the world around
them. The soldier of Christ must maintain a warfare; and when will he be more likely to be
constantly awake to his duty, than when surrounded by the open and avowed enemies of his Master?

From Chitpore four miles above Calcutta, Mr. Boardman writes: "It gives me much pleasure to
write you from the shores of India. Through the goodness of God we arrived at Sand-Heads on
the 23d ult., after a voyage of 127 days. We were slow in our passage up the Hoogly, and did
not arrive in Calcutta until the 2d inst. We had a very agreeable voyage,--religious service
at meals, evening prayers in the cabin, and when the weather allowed, public worship in the
steerage on Lord's day morning ... allow me to add that we entertain a hope that one of the
sailors was converted on the passage.

"The report of our being at Sand-Heads reached Calcutta several days before we did, and our
friends had made kind preparations to receive us. Soon after coming in sight of the city, we
had the pleasure of welcoming on board the Asia, the Rev. Mr. Hough. He informed us, that the
Burmese war was renewed after an armistice of several weeks, and that no well-authenticated
accounts had been received from our dear friends Judson and Price at Ava. It is generally supposed
that they are imprisoned with other foreigners, and have not the means of sending round to Bengal.

"At noon, Dec. 2d, we came on shore, ... and were received very kindly by the English Missionaries.
We found Mrs. Colman waiting with a carriage to bring us out to this place. The cottage we
occupy was formerly the residence of Mr. and Mrs. Eustace Carey. Mr. and Mrs. Wade, Mrs. Colman,
Mrs. Boardman and myself, compose a very happy American family.... But we long to be laboring
in Burmah. We are not yet discouraged by the dark cloud that hangs over our prospects there.
We still hope and trust, we firmly believe, that eventually this war will tend to advance the
cause of Christ in Burmah. We hope our friends at home will not be discouraged, but will continue
to pray for us."

In another letter he says, "And now, my dear parents, I wish you could make a visit at Chitpore.
You would find your two fond children sitting together very happily, and engaged in writing
letters to their beloved American friends. Our mansion, to be sure, is but a bamboo cottage,
with a thatched roof, but is a palace compared with most of the native huts around us. But
you know a large house is by no means essential to happiness. Food and clothing sufficient,
with the presence of God, are all that is absolutely necessary. Could a man have in addition,
one confidential friend, who sympathized in all his joys and sorrows, and with whom he could
enjoy all the endearments of social life, he might be happy indeed--and such a friend, such
a wife I have, in my beloved Sarah. I fear I shall never be able to discharge the obligations
I feel toward you for conferring on me so great a blessing."

Mrs. B. also writes to some acquaintances, "Unite with me, my respected friends, in gratitude
to God, that he has preserved us through the dangers of a long voyage, and permitted us to
land upon a heathen shore. Oh may this renewed assurance of his kind care, teach me confidence
in his promises, and fill me with ardent desires to be constantly employed in his service.

"Our voyage was remarkably pleasant, our suffering from sea-sickness was much lighter than
we had anticipated; our accommodations, though by no means handsome, convenient and comfortable
as we could desire. Our table was well furnished with the necessaries, and many of the luxuries
of life. Capt. Sheed, and the other gentlemen on board, treated us with the greatest kindness,
and appeared solicitous to make our situation agreeable. In the society of Mr. Blaikie, the
supercargo, we took much delight. He is a gentleman of eminent piety, belonging to the Presbyterian
denomination. We had evening devotions in the cabin, ... when the weather allowed we had divine
service between decks on the Sabbath. A precious privilege!

"While at sea, my time was spent in a very agreeable, and I hope not unprofitable manner....
The principal books I read besides the Bible, were the life of Parsons, Lowth's lectures on
Hebrew poetry, part of Fuller's works, and of Jones' Church History. Supposing the study of
the word of God well calculated to prepare my mind for the missionary work, I directed my chief
attention to that. We had one very interesting exercise,--during the week several of us collected
as many passages of scripture as we were able, upon a subject previously named; and on Sabbath
eve, we compared our separate lists, and conversed freely upon the doctrine or duty concerning
which we had written. In this manner we discussed many of the most important doctrines and
duties contained in Scripture.

As we drew near Calcutta, our anxiety respecting the fate of our dear missionaries at Ava,
increased. We trembled when we thought of the disturbances in Burmah, and there was only one
spot where we could find peace and serenity of mind. That sweet spot was the throne of grace.
Thither we would often repair and lose all anxiety and fear respecting our dear friends, our
own future prospects, and the Missionary cause in Burmah. It was sweet to commit all into the
hands of God. If not deceived, we felt the importance of constantly pleading for a suitable
frame of mind, to receive whatever intelligence was for us; and for a disposition to engage
in the service of God, at any time, and in any place he might direct. We considered it our
duty to supplicate for grace to support us in the hour of trial, and for direction in time
of perplexity, rather than to employ our minds in anticipating the nature of future difficulties,
and in fancying how we should conduct in an imagined perplexity. This is still our opinion."

Then follows an account of their arrival, which we have already given in Mr. Boardman's letter,
and she adds: "Imagine, dear Mrs. B. our joy at meeting those with whom we hope to be employed
in labors of love among the poor Burmans. I shall not attempt to describe the emotions of my
heart when I entered the little bamboo cottage we now occupy. Were I skilled in perspective
drawing, I would send you a picture of the charming landscape seen from our verandah. In a
little hut near us reside two Christian converts from heathenism. Oh, how your bosom would
glow with grateful rapture to hear their songs of praise, and listen to their fervent prayers.
We prefer living in this retired spot with dear Mr. and Mrs. Wade and Mrs. Colman, to a situation
in Calcutta; we can pursue our studies with less interruption, and also have the advantage
of Mr. Wade's assistance.

"The war in Burmah still continues, and there is at present very little prospect of our going
to Rangoon soon. We still look to Burmah as our earthly home, and daily pray that we may be
permitted ere long to enter that field of labor. We rejoice that we can commence the study
of the language here. We have not for an instant regretted that we embarked in the undertaking."

In another letter of a later date she writes from Calcutta: "In compliance with the advice
of our friends, we are now residing in a pleasant little house in Calcutta. I regretted exceedingly
to leave the peaceful, retired shades of Chitpore for the noise and commotion of a city, but
duty appeared to require it"--(the climate at Chitpore is insalubrious in the hot months) "and
we all cheerfully submitted. I feel, my dear friend, that we are wanderers. I can look to no
place as my earthly home, but Burmah.... We have not yet heard from the brethren at Ava. Oh
that our Father in Heaven may prepare our hearts for whatever intelligence we may receive.

"On Monday last, I attended the examination of Mrs. Colman's schools. Imagine my feelings at
seeing ninety-two little Bengallee girls, (whose mothers are kept in the most degraded ignorance
and superstition,) taught to read the Scriptures.... This was only one division of the schools.
The whole number belonging to this Society is nearly four hundred. There are also many other
interesting schools in Calcutta.

"Mr. and Mrs. Wade with Mr. B. and myself still compose our family; we are very happy in each
other, are blessed with excellent health, enjoy facilities for learning the language, and in
short, possess all we could desire. We feel our want of ardent piety.... Pray for us, for we
are weak and sinful."

A letter to one of her own family of about the same date, shows that her zeal for the conversion
of the heathen, did not at all weaken her desire that her own kindred might be true followers
of Jesus. After mentioning that a Burman teacher had been procured for them, &c., she says,
"I often imagine myself in the midst of that dear family, where the happy hours of childhood
flew away. Sometimes I fancy myself entering the room in the morning, and seeing you all kneeling
around the family altar. My brother, have you a heart to pray to God? Have you repented and
turned to him? Or are you all careless and indifferent respecting your precious soul? No, I
cannot believe this is the case. Indulged as you are with hearing the gospel and other means
of grace, you cannot be indifferent. The time is coming when the religion of Jesus will be
indispensable to your peace of mind. You must pass through the valley of death. How can you
endure that gloom without the light of God's countenance? you must stand before a righteous
God at the judgment day. What will be the state of your soul if Jesus is not your friend? Think
of this."

A letter from Mrs. Wade written in the spring following, speaks with enthusiasm of the pleasure
they have enjoyed in the society of Mr. and Mrs. B, and, like theirs, breathes ardent wishes
to be able to go to Burmah. These wishes were soon to be realized. A letter from Mr. Boardman
dated Calcutta, April 12th, 1826, commences: "My dear Brother,--The joyful news of peace with
Ava, and of the safety of our friends Dr. and Mrs. Judson, and Dr. Price, you will doubtless
receive from other sources. We can only say that the preservation of our friends both at Rangoon
and at Ava, seems to us one of the most striking and gracious displays of God's special care
of his people and his cause, which has been experienced in modern times.

"Brother Wade and myself, with our beloved companions, expect to leave Calcutta in six or eight
weeks, to join brother Judson. As Rangoon is not retained by the British, we do not think it
best to recommence the work there, but rather to settle in some of the towns which are by treaty
ceded to the British.... The members of the church in Rangoon are collecting and will probably
go with us. We need divine direction.

"We have great reason to be thankful for the health we enjoy. We long to proceed to Burmah
and engage in the delightful work before us. May God's strength be made perfect in our weakness."

But his cherished enterprise was still longer delayed. By the solicitation of the English missionaries,
and the appointment of the American Board, he was induced to remain in Calcutta a while, and
preach in Circular Road Chapel, recently vacated by the death of Mr. Lawson. Mr. Wade and his
wife reached Rangoon on the 9th of November, and found there the desolate and heart-stricken
Mr. Judson, and his feeble babe, of whom Mrs. Wade was able for a brief period to supply the
place of a mother.

The place fixed upon as the seat of government in the newly acquired British territory in Burmah,
was Amherst, on the Martaban river, about 75 miles eastward of Rangoon. This place had been
laid out by British engineers under Mr. Judson's direction, and in an incredibly short time,
became a city numbering in thousands of houses. In southern India, houses are built almost
in a day, and the population fluctuates from place to place with a facility surprising to Europeans.
It is only necessary to make a clearing in the jungle, and erect barracks for a few soldiers,
and--as water rushes at once into hollows scooped in the damp sea-sand--so do the natives of
India swarm into the clearing, and create a city.' To this new city of Amherst Mr. and Mrs.
Boardman came in the spring of 1827, and joined Mr. and Mrs. Wade and Mr. Judson. It was bitterly
painful to them to learn that the wife of the latter, that noble and beloved woman whose life
had been preserved as if by miracle in a thousand dangers, and from whose society and intercourse
they had hoped and expected the greatest pleasure and profit, was the tenant of a lowly grave
beneath the hopia-tree; and even more immediately distressing to find that her heart-broken
husband was just about to consign to the same dreary bed the only relic remaining to him of
his once lovely family, 'the sweet little Maria.' One of Mr. Boardman's first labors in Burmah
was to make a coffin for the child with his own hands! and to assist in its burial. Poor babe!
'so closed its brief, eventful history.' An innocent sharer in the terrible sufferings of its
parents, in the midst of which indeed it came into the world; like its mother, it had survived
through countless threatening deaths, and reached what seemed a haven of security, only to
wring its father's heart with an intenser pang, by its unexpected and untimely death. Truly
the ways of God 'are past finding out,' and 'his judgments are a great deep!'

From a short poem full of sympathy and pious sentiment which was written by Mrs. Boardman on
this occasion, we select some passages.

    "Ah this is death, my innocent! 'tis he
    Whose chilling hand has touched thy tender frame.

           *       *       *       *       *

    Thou heed'st us not; not e'en the bursting sob
    Of thy dear father, now can pierce thine ear.

           *       *       *       *       *

    Thy mother's tale replete with varied scenes,
    Exceeds my powers to tell; but other harps
    And other voices, sweeter far than mine,
    Shall sing her matchless worth, her deeds of love,
    Her zeal, her toil, her sufferings and her death.
      But all is over now. She sweetly sleeps
    In yonder new-made grave; and thou, sweet babe,
    Shalt soon be pillowed on her quiet breast.
    Yes, ere to-morrow's sun shall gild the west,
    Thy father shall have said a long adieu
    To the last lingering hope of earthly joy;
    For thou, Maria, wilt have found thy rest.
    Thy flesh shall rest in hope, till that great day
    When He who once endured far greater woes
    Than mortal man can know; who when on earth
    Received such little children in his arms,
    Graciously blessing them, shall come again;
    Then like the glorious body of thy Lord
    Who wakes thy dust, this fragile frame shall be.
    Then shalt thou mount with him on angels' wings
    Be freed from sorrow, sickness, sin and death.
    And in his presence find eternal bliss."

On consultation it was determined that Mr. and Mrs. Wade should remain in Amherst, and that
Mr. and Mrs. Boardman should proceed to Maulmain, a town 25 miles up the river, which had sprung
into being in the same manner as Amherst, and was nearly as populous; and that Mr. Judson should
divide his time between the two stations.

In pursuance of this plan Mr. Boardman removed his family, which had been increased by the
addition of a lovely daughter, now about five months old, to the new city of Maulmain. On the
evening of May 28th Mr. Boardman makes this entry in his journal. "After nearly two years of
wanderings without any certain dwelling-place, we have to-day become inhabitants of a little
spot of earth, and have entered a house which we call our earthly home. None but those who
have been in similar circumstances can conceive the satisfaction we now enjoy." ... "The population
of the town is supposed to be 20,000. One year ago it was all a thick jungle, without an inhabitant!"

While at Amherst, Mrs. Boardman had experienced an alarming attack of a disease incident to
the climate, and had to be carried to the boat which conveyed her to her new home on a litter.
On her arrival there, although she shared her husband's joy that at length they had a home
on the long promised land of Burmah, still her woman's nature, enfeebled by suffering, could
not but have trembled at the idea of living in a lonely spot, (for the mission-house was nearly
a mile from the barracks,) with the neighboring jungle swarming with "serpents that hiss, and
beasts of prey that howl." In addition to this cause of alarm, there was opposite them, on
the Burman side of the river, the old decayed city of Martaban; which was the refuge of a horde
of banditti, who, armed with knives and swords, would often sally forth in bands of 30 or 40,
urge their light and noiseless boats across the river, satiate themselves with plunder and
murder in the British town, and return with their spoils to their own territory, where they
were secure from British retaliation. The English general, knowing the insecurity of the mission-house,
had urged Mr. B. to remove with his family to the protection of the fort; but his object was
to benefit the Burmans, and to do that, he must live among them.

In their little bamboo hut, therefore, so frail that it could be cut open, as Mrs. Boardman
says, with a pair of scissors, they prosecuted their study of the language under a native teacher,
and even ventured to talk a little with the half-wild natives around them, and for a few weeks
were unmolested. Their courage and confidence had revived, and with Mrs. B., restored health
brought happiness. June 20th she writes, "We are in excellent health, and as happy as it is
possible for human beings to be upon earth. It is our earnest desire to live, labor and die
among this people." With such feelings, they had probably retired to rest on the night of the
24th of June, but awaking towards morning, and perceiving that the lamp which they always kept
burning through the night was extinguished, they suspected mischief; and on relighting it,
they found to their consternation that their house had been entered by the lawless plunderers
mentioned above, and robbed of nearly every valuable article it contained; but how was their
horror increased, by finding two large cuts in the moscheto curtains about their bed, through
which the murderers had watched their slumbers, ready to stab them to the heart had they offered
the slightest resistance, or even had they waked to consciousness. But He who "giveth his beloved
sleep," had kindly steeped their senses in slumbers so profound and peaceful, that not even
the infant stirred, or opened its eyes which would have instantly been sealed again,--in death.--Every
trunk, box and bureau was rifled, looking-glass, watch, spoons, keys, were gone; and yet as
the parents gazed at those rent curtains, and thought how the death-angel had grazed them with
his wing as he passed by, their hearts rose in gratitude and praise to their Heavenly deliverer.
But Mrs. Boardman's feelings are best told in her own expressive words. She says, "After the
first amazement had a little subsided, I raised my eyes to the curtains surrounding our bed,
and to my indescribable emotion saw two large holes cut, the one at the head, and the other
at the foot of the place where my dear husband had been sleeping. From that moment, I quite
forgot the stolen goods, and thought only of the treasure that was spared. In imagination I
saw the assassins with their horrid weapons standing by our bedside, ready to do their worst
had we been permitted to wake. Oh how merciful was that watchful Providence which prolonged
those powerful slumbers of that night, not allowing even the infant at my bosom to open its
eyes at so critical a moment. If ever gratitude glowed in my bosom, if ever the world appeared
to me worthless as vanity, and if ever I wished to dedicate myself, my husband, my babe, my
all, to our great Redeemer, it was at that time.

"To this day not a trace of our goods has been found; leaving no doubt that they were taken
immediately over the river to Martaban. Since our loss, we have received many kind presents
from our friends, so that we now find ourselves comfortable, and we are contented and happy.
Yes, my beloved friend, I think I can say, that notwithstanding our alarms, never did five
months of my life pass as pleasantly as the last five have done. The thought of being among
this people whom we have so long desired to see, and the hope that God would enable me to do
some little good to the poor heathen, has rejoiced and encouraged my heart. I confess that
once or twice my natural timidity has for a moment gained ascendancy over my better feelings,--and
at the hour of midnight, when the howlings of wild beasts have been silenced by the report
of a musket near us, we would say to each other, perhaps the next attack will be made upon
us, and the next charge may be aimed at our bosoms. Then I have been almost ready to exclaim,
Oh for one little, little room of such materials, that we could, as far as human means go,
sleep in safety. But these fears have been transitory, and we have generally been enabled to
place our confidence in the Great Shepherd of Israel who never slumbers or sleeps, assured
that he would protect us.... And we have also felt a sweet composure in the reflection that
God has marked out our way; and if it best accord with his designs that we fall a prey to these
blood-thirsty monsters, all will be right."

The English, hearing of this robbery, stationed a guard at the Mission-house of two sepoys
or native soldiers. As one of these was sitting in the verandah, a wild beast from the jungle
sprang furiously upon him, but he was frightened away before the man was much injured. Such
occurrences however were rare, and did not make Mrs. Boardman desire, all things considered,
to change her residence She was in the place of her choice, the country of her adoption, she
had a faithful and loving husband, and a lovely and almost idolized babe; their house, though
small and insecure, was beautifully situated with everything in the natural landscape around
to charm her cultivated eye and taste,--these were her earthly comforts. Besides, even the
insecurity of their habitation was daily diminishing; for houses were constantly springing
up around them, and more and more of the jungle was cleared and cultivated. But what gave its
chief zest to her life and that of her spiritually minded husband, was the fact that they found
here a field of usefulness in the only work that seemed to them worth living for. From various
motives the natives began to visit them constantly, and in increasing numbers, to inquire concerning
the new religion. Mr. B. held a religious service on the Sabbath, and opened a school for boys:
Mrs. Boardman, one for girls, and both conversed as well as they were able with their numerous
visitors, and employed all their leisure in mastering the language. On the 22d of July they
commemorated together the Saviour's dying love, in the sacrament of the Lord's supper,--a solitary
pair--yet not so, for the Master of the feast was there to bless the "two" who thus "gathered
together in his name."

The population at Maulmain was now increasing, and that at Amherst diminishing so rapidly,
that Mr. Judson and Mr. and Mrs. Wade thought best to remove from the latter station to the
former, and arrived at Maulmain in October. Two houses of public worship were erected during
the year, where Messrs. Judson and Wade were daily employed in proclaiming religious truth,
and such was their success, that within a few months they admitted to the church several native
members. As many native converts with their families had removed with the Missionaries from
Amherst to Maulmain, Mrs. Wade and Mrs. Boardman united their schools into one, which was attended
with the most gratifying success. Moung Shwa-ba and Moung Ing, who have often been mentioned
in the former memoir, read the Scriptures and other religious books to all who would hear,
at a sort of reading zayat, built for the purpose.

In March, 1828, our friends were delivered from a danger not unknown in our own country. One
evening, they were startled by a roaring like that of flame, and on going to the door, discovered
the whole jungle to the eastward of them enveloped in sheets of flame, which was rapidly approaching
their frail cottage. Seeing no hope that their house could escape, they rapidly collected a
few valuables, and with their infant prepared to flee towards the river, though in much terror
lest their path should be beset by leopards, tigers, and other animals, driven from their haunts
by the fire. But when within a few feet of the houses, the flames were arrested by a sudden
change of the wind, and the dwellings were unhurt. "Thus again are we preserved," says Mr.
B. "when no human arm could have saved us!" Truly,

    "The hosts of God encamp around
    The dwellings of the just."

Truly "the Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly."

The permanent collection of so many Missionaries at a single station was not approved by the
Board, nor was it deemed desirable by the Missionaries themselves. In accordance, therefore,
with instructions received from America, it was decided that Mr. and Mrs. Boardman should remove
to Tavoy. This city is situated on the river Tavoy, 150 miles south of Maulmain, and had at
that time a population of 6000 Burmans and 3000 foreigners.

The city was the stronghold of the religion of Gaudama, and the residence of two hundred priests.

On every eligible point stood an emblem or image of idolatry. Tall pagodas crowned every eminence,
and humbler ones clustered around them, while thickly set groves of banyan and other sacred
trees, sheltered shrines and images of Gaudama, and on festival days were crowded with devotees,
kneeling in the gloomy pathways, or festooning the sacred trees with the rarest flowers. The
tops of some of the thousand pagodas in the city, are hung with innumerable little bells, which,
moved by the wind, chime sweetly their calls to devotion, reminding one of a passage in Moore's
description of an eastern city:

    "But hark! the vesper call to prayer,
     --As slow the orb of daylight sets,--
    Is rising sweetly on the air
      From Syria's thousand minarets."

This change in their place of abode could not fail to be a severe trial to our missionaries.
To Maulmain they were bound by many ties,--the sweet companionship of fellow-Christians, and
the love which attaches the missionary to those spiritual children which the Lord has given
him;--moreover it was their first home, sanctified by signal deliverances and countless mercies;--nevertheless,
like Abraham who at the call of Jehovah, "went out, not knowing whither he went,"--these "followers
of them who through faith inherit the promises," obeyed the voice of duty, and feeling themselves
"strangers and pilgrims on the earth," went without murmuring to their new sphere of labor.
"One thing is certain," says Mr. B. in a subsequent letter "we were brought here by the guidance
of Providence. It was no favorite scheme of ours."

On arriving at Tavoy, they were kindly received by Mr. Burney the English resident, and within
ten days from their arrival, had procured a house, and begun to teach inquirers in the way
of salvation Much as there was to discourage them in this city of pagoda, "the missionary looked
out on the strange magnificence of shrines and temples that lay around him,--upon the monuments
that had perpetuated for many ages this idolatrous worship,--upon the priests who taught it,
and the countless devotees who practised it; and as he prepared to strike the first blow at
the hoary superstition which they all enshrined, he felt to the full the sublimity and greatness
of the undertaking. He stood alone, the herald of truth, before this mighty array of ancient
error; but he trusted implicitly in the promises of revelation, and felt assured that the day
was at hand when all this empty adoration of Gaudama would give place to the worship of the
living God!"[8]

A new difficulty occurred here, which however was speedily surmounted by the diligence and
zeal of the missionaries; the dialect of Tavoy was so different from pure Burmese as to be
almost unintelligible to those who knew only the latter, but both, fortunately, employed the
same written characters. Mrs. Boardman's employments at this time are enumerated in their letters.
After unwearied toil, and repeated repulses and discouragements, she succeeded in establishing
a girls' school, in which she employed a woman who could read, as an assistant. She describes
a visit to her school thus: "I am just returned from one of the day-schools. The sun had not
risen when I arrived, but the little girls were in the house ready for instruction. My walk
to this school is through a retired road, shaded on one side by the old wall of the city, which
is overgrown with wild creepers and pole-flowers, and on the other by large fruit-trees. While
going and returning, I find it sweet and profitable to think on the shortness of time, the
vanity of this delusive world,--and oh I have had some precious views of that world where the
weary are at rest; and where sin, that enemy of God, and now constant disturber of my peace,
will no more afflict me."

In another letter of a later date, she describes herself as sitting at her table in a back
porch, from which she can see her "dear husband," in a room before her, teaching nine little
heathen boys; while in one of the long verandahs on each side of the house, the native Christians
are holding a prayer-meeting in their own language, and in the other, a Chinese convert is
urging three or four of his deluded countrymen to turn from their stupid superstitions to the
service of Jehovah.

She mentions also the baptism of a Karen, (the name of a tribe in Burmah,) "a poor man, who
had been converted while in the service of Mr. Judson;" little knowing the importance of the
fact thus recorded. This "poor man," in fact formerly a slave, and whom the writer of an article
in a former number of the Quarterly Review would have sneered at as he did at the "fisherman,"
the wonderful trophy of divine grace, mentioned in Mrs. Judson's history of the mission, was
the famous Ko-thay-byu, whose life has been written by Mr. Mason, and who, by his zeal and
success in missionary labor, obtained the name of "the Karen Apostle." He was the first to
introduce to the notice of the missionaries, the tribe to which he belonged, a people so remarkable,
that we are unwilling, even in our brief sketch, to pass them over without notice.

The Karens, according to a writer in the North American Review, are a savage and ignorant race
of men, (their name in the Burman language signifying wild men,) scattered in vast numbers
over the wilds of Farther India, and inhabiting almost inaccessible tracts, among the mountains
and forests. Their peculiar physiognomy, strange traditions, and some of their customs have
led to the opinion that they were of Hebrew origin, though some think they are of the Caucasian
variety of the human species. They differ much from the Burmans, by whom they are heavily taxed
and grievously oppressed, and in every way treated as inferiors.[9] "Their traditions have
been preserved, like the poems of Ossian, by fond memories delighting to revive the recollections
of former glory and prosperity; repeated by grandsires at even-tide to their listening descendants,
and sung by mourners over the graves of their elders.

"They believe in a God who is denominated Yu-wah," a name certainly similar to the Hebrew Jehovah.
Some of their traditional songs are curious and interesting. For instance,

    "God created us in ancient time,
    And has a perfect knowledge of all things;
    When men call his name, he hears!"

And again

    "The sons of heaven are holy,
    They sit by the seat of God,
    The sons of heaven are righteous,
    They dwell together with God;
    They lean against his silver seat."

The following stanza, says the writer above referred to, might be mistaken for the production
of David or Isaiah.

    "Satan in days of old was holy,
    But he transgressed God's law;
    Satan of old was righteous,
    But he departed from the law of God,
    And God drove him away."

They say that God formerly loved their nation, but on account of their wickedness he punished
it, and made them the degraded creatures they now are. But they say "God will again have mercy
upon us, God will save us again." One verse of one of their songs is,

    "When the Karen king arrives
    Everything will be happy;
    When Karens have a king
    Wild beasts will lose their savageness."

Professor Gammell says, in substance, that they present the extraordinary phenomenon of a people
without any form of religion or established priesthood, yet believing in God, and in future
retribution, and cherishing and transmitting from age to age a set of traditions of unusual
purity, and containing bright predictions of future prosperity and glory.

When Ko-thay-byu, the poor convert already mentioned, was baptized, he naturally carried to
his countrymen "the thrilling news, that a teacher from a far distant land had come to preach
a new religion, a religion answering to the religion of their fathers." Others came to listen,
and to carry back to their secluded hamlets the joyful tidings; until "from distant hills and
remote valleys and forests, Karen inquirers flocked to Tavoy, and thronged around the teacher;"
listening to the new doctrines with childlike simplicity and uncommon sensibility. Among other
singular stories that they related to the wondering "teacher," one was, that more than ten
years before, a book in a strange tongue had been left among them by a foreigner, who commanded
them to worship it; which command they had faithfully obeyed. Mr. Boardman felt the strongest
curiosity to see this deified book, but owing to the prevalence of the rains, he was not gratified
till the following September. He was then waited on by a large deputation of Karens, bringing
with them in a covered basket, the mysterious volume, wrapped in fold after fold of muslin;
on removing which it proved to be an Oxford edition of the Common Prayer Book in the English
language! With the greatest simplicity they asked Mr. B. if this book contained the doctrines
of the new religion, and if so, requested to be taught its contents. Mr. B. assured them that
the book was good, but should by no means be made an object of worship; and accepting it from
them, he gave them in its stead, portions of the Scriptures, translated into a language they
could understand. They entreated him to visit them in their own villages, assuring him of the
readiness of their tribe to welcome him, and to receive the gospel; and, struck with their
earnestness and candor, he promised at some future time to yield to their request.

The sorcerer who had preserved the book, and prescribed to the simple heathen the forms of
its worship, threw away his cudgel, or wand of office, and laid aside his fantastic dress;
and Mr. Boardman sent the mysterious volume to America, to be deposited in the museum of the
Baptist Missionary Society.

Who the "foreigner" may have been, that thus supplied an ignorant people with a Divinity, or
object of worship; or what were his motives in so doing, will probably always remain a mystery.

If we have devoted considerable space to this notice of the Karens, their subsequent history
will prove that they are not unworthy of such notice. We are still in good health, and happy
in our work. We are now destitute of all religious society, and feel that our responsibilities
are great indeed.... We have to suffer many little inconveniences in this country, but have
no disposition to complain. We rejoice in the kind providence that has directed our steps,
and would not exchange our condition. Our desire is to labor among the poor heathen until called
to our eternal home." She then, with characteristic earnestness and affection, inquires after
her sister's spiritual state. "Oh if you are a child of God, how great is your happiness; you
can think of death without fear. The troubles and griefs of life do not distress you as they
do the poor worldling, who looks only to the enjoyments of this life for comfort. If a Christian,
you have sweet foretastes of that joy which is unspeakable and inconceivable by mortals. Though
a sinner still, you feel that your sins are pardoned, and that through the merits of a crucified
Saviour you will at last be accepted of God. I would fondly hope, my dear sister, that this
is your happy case. But if not, oh who can tell your dreadful danger? Who can paint the alarming
prospect before you? Every moment exposed to death, and yet without hope. Subject to disappointments
and afflictions in this world, and yet no refuge for your anguished spirit. The weight of sins
daily accumulating, and every day less prospect of obtaining pardon. The awful prospect of
eternal banishment from all that is holy, oh my sister, reflect.... If you have not yet turned
to the Saviour, delay no longer.... Oh may you, and all my beloved brothers and sisters, be
early brought to a knowledge of the truth. I cannot express the anxiety I feel for every one
of you. I also feel the solicitude of a tender sister for your temporal good. Write me particulars
of the health of my dear parents, grand-parents, and each of my brothers and sisters. Though
separated from you, I always wish to share your joys and sorrows.

"Your little niece is in charming health. She sends many kisses to you all, and I shall teach
her to love you, though she cannot see you."

We have inserted this letter, which in its spirit is a specimen of all her letters, not only
for its, intrinsic excellence, but to show that even in distant Burmah, and surrounded by cares
and duties which would have diminished in a less affectionate breast her interest in her distant
relatives,

    "Her heart untravelled fondly turned to" them,
    "And dragged at each remove a lengthening chain."

While laboring for the conversion of pagans, she felt more than she had ever felt before, the
awful danger of those who under the full blaze of gospel light, choose to walk in darkness;
and for her family, her dear brothers and sisters, her burden was almost like that of the apostle
who was, as it were, willing to give up his own title to the heavenly inheritance, if by so
doing he could save his "kindred according to the flesh."[10] All her letters which we have
been privileged to see, bear evidence of this.

In December of the year 1828, Mrs. Boardman was called to a trial which of all others was most
fitted to make her feel that every earthly dependence is at best but a broken reed, and that

    "The spider's most attenuated thread
    Is cord, is cable, to our strongest hold
    On earthly bliss; it breaks with every breeze."

Her almost idolized husband, her guide, her only human support, protector, and companion, was
attacked by that insidious and incurable malady which was destined at no distant day to close
his career of usefulness on earth, and send him early to his reward. A copious hemorrhage from
the lungs warned him that his time for earthly labor was short, and seemed to increase his
desire to work while his day lasted. As soon as his strength was sufficiently restored after
his first attack, namely, in February 1829, he resolved to fulfil his long-cherished intention
to visit the Karens in their native villages. He took with him two Karens, two of his scholars,
and a servant. Females, who in this country of order and security, tremble at the idea of being
left for one night alone in their strong and guarded dwellings, may perhaps conceive the feelings
of Mrs. Boardman on being thus left by her protector.--Her own health scarce re-established
after a four months' illness,--her mind agitated by fears for her stricken husband, who under
burning suns, and amid unknown wilds, exposed to the fury of the sudden thunder-gust, and the
wild beast of the jungles, must be absent from her, perhaps, two or three dreary weeks in which
time not one "cordial, endearing report" from him, would reach her;--in her frail hut, and
with two little ones dearer to her than life, exposed to the same dangers as herself,--what
could support her in such circumstances but her faith in that arm whose strength is shown to
be "perfect, in weakness?" A poor Karen woman, seeing her distress, tried to console her: "Weep
not, mama," she said; "the teacher has gone on an errand of compassion to my poor perishing
countrymen. They have never heard of the true God, and the love of his Son Jesus Christ, who
died upon he cross to save sinners. They know nothing of the true religion, mama; and when
they die they cannot go to the golden country of the blessed. God will take care of the teacher;
do not weep, mama." Blessed faith in an omnipresent Heavenly Father! It gives even the unlettered
Karen disciple, an eloquence in consolation, to which worldly philosophy is a stranger.

Mr. Boardman's journey, though perilous from the causes above mentioned, and tedious from being
performed on foot, was highly interesting on account of the eager welcome, and abundant hospitality
of the simple-minded Karen villagers whom he visited. On entering a village, he and his little
caravan were overwhelmed with presents of provisions and fruits; and the inhabitants would
exclaim, while their countenances beamed with delight, "Ah, you have come at last; we have
long wanted to see you!" He travelled more than one hundred miles, often through unfrequented
and toilsome paths among the mountains, and was three times drenched with powerful rains, from
which he had no sufficient shelter; but by the aid of an interpreter he preached seventeen
sermons, and was cheered by finding the readiness of the people to receive his doctrines far
exceed his most sanguine expectations. On his return, both he and Mrs. Boardman had to experience
an affliction extremely trying to the heart of a missionary; the defection of some of the Christian
converts. Their sensitive spirits led Mr. and Mrs. B. to fear that their own unfaithfulness
might have been the cause of the fall of their disciples. Mrs. Boardman's self-upbraidings
were bitter; her humiliation deep and sincere. "Our hearts," she says, "have bled with anguish,
and mine has sunk lower than the grave, for I have felt that my unworthiness has been the cause
of all our calamities."

So keen were her self-rebukes at this time, that they break out even in her letters to her
friends. In one of them she writes: "Some of these poor Burmans, who are daily carried to the
grave, may at last reproach me and say, you came, it is true, to the city where we dwelt, to
tell of heaven and hell, but wasted much, much of your precious time in indolence while learning
our language. And when you were able to speak, why were you not incessantly telling us of this
day of doom, when we visited you? Why, oh why did you ever speak of any other thing, while
we were ignorant of this most momentous of all truths? How could you think on anything but
our salvation?... You told us you knew of a Being that heard your lowest whispers, and most
secret sighs--why then, did you not, day and night, entreat him in our behalf?" Mr. Boardman
in his journal says, "My dear wife became at this time so deeply impressed with divine things,
and particularly with a sense of her own sinfulness, that she had no rest night or day. We
both endeavored to return to the Lord from whom we had strayed; but our path, especially that
of Mrs. B. led hard by the borders of despair.... We confessed our sins to the Lord and to
one another. We considered ourselves worthy to be trodden under foot of men, and were astonished
to think of our pride and selfishness.... We were filled with the most distressing views of
our utter sinfulness in the sight of a holy God."

Thus was this affliction, though "grievous," beginning to work out in her heart its "peaceable
fruit of righteousness," by deepening her humility, quickening her zeal, and leading her to
a more thorough consecration of herself to the work she had undertaken.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 10: Romans ix. 3.]

CHAPTER VIII.

DEATH OF THEIR FIRST-BORN.--LETTERS FROM MRS. B.

In the spring of 1829 Mr. Boardman and his family made a short sea-voyage for the benefit of
their health, Mrs. Boardman having experienced another attack of illness, and their little
George being frail and puny. Indeed none of the family seemed to have been healthy but the
"plump, rosy-cheeked" first-born, the darling Sarah, her mother's joy and pride, and--as her
Heavenly Father saw--her idol too! Terrible was the stroke that shattered that lovely idol;
but it came--so faith assured her--from a father's hand. Sometime afterward she writes, "My
ever dear Sister, I think I have not written you since the death of our beloved Sarah, which
is nearly eight months ago. I have never delayed writing to you so long before. For some time
after her death, little George was apparently near the grave, and I was confined to my bed
for a number of weeks. As soon as my health was a little improved, the rebellion at Tavoy took
place, which threw us all into confusion, and this lasted until I was taken ill again about
three months since. From this illness I am but just recovering. So you see, my beloved sister,
my outward circumstances have been sufficient to prevent my writing. Nor is this all--for some
time after little Sarah's departure, I was too much distressed to write; I felt assured that
God had taken her away from us in love, and was also assured, that she is a happy angel in
heaven; but oh the thought that we should see her no more on earth, filled me with indescribable
sorrow. By degrees my mind became calmer; not that I forgot her, but I feel, my dear Harriet,
that the dearest and sweetest pleasures of this life are empty and altogether unsatisfying.
I do not look for comfort from these sources as I formerly did. We have a fine, healthy boy,
but I do not allow myself to idolize him as I did his dear departed sister. In her dissolution,
we saw such a wreck of what was most lovely and beautiful, that it seems as if we should be
kept in future from 'worshipping the creature.'"

Particulars respecting the child's illness and death are given in another letter of nearly
the same date. "Our little Sarah left us July 8th of last year--aged 2 years and 8 months....
She was a singularly lovely child. Her bright blue eyes, yellow hair, and rosy cheeks, formed
a striking contrast to the dark little faces around her.... From the time she began to notice
anything, we were the objects of her fondest love. If she thought she had incurred our displeasure,
her tender heart seemed ready to burst; and she could not rest for a moment until she had said
she was 'sorry,' and obtained the kiss of forgiveness. She had learned to obey us implicitly....
If either of us were ill, she would stroke our foreheads with her little soft hand, and kiss
us so affectionately! Her love to her little brother George was unlimited. From the day of
his birth till the day but one before she died, he was her idol.... Three days before she died,
she was lying uneasily in a large swing cradle, and George was in the same room crying. We
thought it might soothe the little sufferer, for he also was very ill, to lay him down beside
Sarah. The proposal delighted her; with smiles she threw open her little arms and for the last
time held her darling brother in her fond embrace. So great was her gratification at this privilege,
that she seemed to forget her own pains.

"Little Sarah spoke English remarkably well for so young a child, and Burmese like a native;
she could also say some things in the Hindostanee and Karen, and what seems a little singular,
she never confounded two languages, but always spoke pure English to us, and pure Burmese to
Burmans. This discrimination continued as long as she had the powers of speech. She had learned
the Lord's prayer and several little hymns. Dr. Judson's lines on the death of Mee Shawayee
she knew by heart in Burmese, and used to chant them for half an hour at a time.... These things
may seem very trivial to you, but I muse upon them by the hour together; and it is only when
I call my cooler judgment into action, that I can make myself believe they are uninteresting
to any person on earth. I love to think of my sweet bud of immortality expanding so beautifully
in my own presence; and fancy I can judge in some small degree of the brilliancy of the perfect
flower, from these little developments.

"A few hours before she died, she called us to her, kissed us, and passed her dear hand, still
full and dimpled as in health, softly over our faces. The pupils of her eyes were so dilated
that she could not see us distinctly, and once, for a moment or two, her mind seemed to be
wandering; then looking anxiously into my face, she said: 'I frightened, mamma! I frightened!'
... Oh with what feelings did I wash and dress her lovely form for the last time, and compose
her perfect little limbs; and then see her--the dear child that had so long lain in my bosom--borne
away to her newly-made grave. My heart grew faint when I thought that I had performed for her
my last office of love; that she would never need a mother's hand again.

My dear husband performed the funeral service with an aching, though not desponding heart.
The grave is in our own enclosure, about fifteen rods from the house--a beautiful retired spot,
in a grove of Gangau-trees. Near it is a little Bethel, erected for private devotion. Thither
we have often repaired; and we trust that God, who in his infinite wisdom had taken our treasure
to himself, often meets us there."

The biographer of Mrs. Boardman--since her successor in the mission--mentions that a single
speculative error had crept into her religious faith, on the subject of God's particular providence--that
while contemplating the vastness of that agency

    "That ever busy wheels the silent spheres,"

she had almost thought it derogatory to the "Majesty of heaven and earth" to conceive of him
as occupied with our mean affairs, numbering the hairs of our heads, and guiding the sparrow's
fall. But the blow which crushed her heart, destroyed its skepticism. She saw so clearly in
this dispensation, the hand of a Father chastening his erring child; she felt so keenly that
she deserved the rod, for having in a measure worshipped the gift more than the giver, that
she believed, with all the strength of an irresistible conviction, that even so lowly a thing
as her own heart was indeed a theatre for the constant display of her Maker's guiding and controlling
power, not less than the starry heavens; that her own sanctification, and the providential
means to effect it, even in their minutest details, were ordered by sovereign grace and wisdom;
and from this time forth she never doubted again.

But it is time to detail the spirit-stirring scenes that occurred a few months after the death
of the child; to which scenes allusion was made in the first of her two letters.

CHAPTER IX.

REVOLT OF TAVOY.--LETTERS FROM MRS. B.

The revolt of Tavoy from the British government, and its consequences to the missionaries and
other foreigners in the city, are so well described in a letter from Mr. Boardman to a friend
in America, that we will give it nearly entire.

         "REV. AND DEAR SIR,

