Hasjelti stands to the north end in the illustration, holding the emblem of the concentrated
winds. The square is ornamented at the corners with eagle plumes, tied on with cotton cord;
an eagle plume is attached to the head of Hasjelti with cotton cord. The upper horizontal lines
on the face denote clouds; the perpendicular lines denote rain; the lower horizontal and perpendicular
lines denote the first vegetation used by man. Hasjelti’s chin is covered with corn pollen,
the head is surrounded with red sunlight, the red cross lines on the blue denote larynx; he
wears ear rings of turquoise, fringed leggings of white buckskin, and beaded moccasins tied
on with cotton cord. The figure to the south end is Hostjoghon; he too has the eagle plume
on the head, which is encircled with red sunshine. His earrings are of turquoise; he has fox-skin
ribbons attached to the wrists; these are highly ornamented at the loose ends with beaded pendants
attached by cotton strings; he carries wild turkey and eagle feather wands, brightened with
red, blue, and yellow sunbeams. The center figure is one of the Hostjobokon, and upon this
figure the invalid for whom the ceremonial is held sits. The four footprints are made of meal.
These the invalid steps upon as he advances and takes his seat, with knees drawn up, upon the
central figure. After dark the invalid walked over the line of meal, being careful to step
upon the footprints in order that his mental and moral qualities might be strengthened. The
invalid removed his clothing immediately after entering the lodge; he had downy breast feathers
of the eagle attached to the scalp lock with white cotton cord; he advanced to the painting
and took his seat upon the central figure. An attendant followed him, and with his right hand
swept the line of meal after the invalid, removing all traces of it. The entrance of the invalid
into the lodge was a signal for the song-priest to open the chant with the rattle. Hasjelti
and Hostjoghon bounded into the lodge hooting wildly. The former carried the square (the concentrated
winds), which he placed over the sick man’s head. Hostjoghon carried a turkey wand in each
hand, and these he waved over the invalid’s head and hooted; this was repeated four times,
and each time the gods ran out of the lodge. Hasjelti wore a velvet dress, but Hostjoghon’s
body was nude, painted white. This wild, weird ceremony over, the sick man arose and the song-priest
gathered the turkey wands from around the painting, while an attendant erased it by rubbing
his hands over the sand to the center. The sands were gathered into a blanket and carried out
of the lodge and deposited some distance away from the lodge, where the sun could not generate
the germ of the disease. The sand is never touched by any one when once carried out, though
before the paintings are erased the people clamor to touch them, and then rub their hands over
their own bodies that they may be cured of any malady. The invalid, after putting on his clothes,
returned to his family lodge. A group then gathered around the spot where the paintings had
been and joined in a weird chant, which closed the fifth day’s ceremony.

SIXTH DAY.

Preparations for a great sand painting began at daylight. Sand for the ground work was carried
in in blankets; the fire which had burned through the previous ceremonies was first removed
and all traces of it covered with sand. As the artists were to begin the painting with the
center of the picture only a portion of the ground color was laid at first, in order to enable
them to work with greater facility. While the ground color was being laid a man sat on one
side of the lodge grinding with a metate and mixing the colors. A quantity of coals were taken
from the exhausted fire from which to prepare black paint. A small quantity of red sand was
mixed with the charcoal to give it body or weight. The colors used in this sand painting have
all been referred to in the description of the rainbow over the sweat house. After the central
portion of the ground work for the painting was smoothed off a Jerusalem cross was drawn in
black. The eye usually was the only guide for drawing lines, though on two occasions a weaving
stick was used. As a rule four artists were employed, one beginning at each point of the cross.
Each arm of the cross was completed by the artist who began the work. For illustration of painting
see PL CXXI.

The black cross-bars in the illustration denote pine logs; the white lines the froth of the
water; the yellow, vegetable debris gathered by the logs; the blue and red lines, sunbeams.
The blue spot in center of cross denotes water. There are four Hostjobokon with their wives
the Hostjoboard; each couple sit upon one of the cross arms of the logs. These gods carry in
their right hands a rattle, and in their left sprigs of piñon; the wives or goddesses carry
piñon sprigs in both hands; the rattle brings male rains, and the piñon, carried by the women,
female rains; these rains meet upon the earth, conceive and bring forth all vegetation. Their
heads are ornamented with eagle plumes tied on with cotton cord. (Note: In all cases the round
head denotes male and octangular head female.) The gods have also a bunch of night-owl feathers
and eagle plumes on the left side of the head; both male and female wear turquois earrings
and necklaces of the same. The larynx is represented by the parallel lines across the blue.
A line of sunlight encircles the head of both males and females. The white spots on the side
of the females’ heads represent the ears. The arms of the goddesses are covered with corn pollen,
and long ribbons of fox skins are attached to the wrists, as shown on painting number one.
All wear beaded moccasins tied on with cotton cord. Their chins are covered with corn pollen
and red sunlight surrounds the body. The skirts only have an additional line of blue sunlight.
Hasjelti is to the east of the painting. He carries a squirrel skin filled with tobacco. His
shirt is white cotton and very elastic. The leggings are of white deer skin fringed, and the
moccasins are similar to the others. His head is ornamented with an eagle’s tail, and to the
tip of each plume there is a fluffy feather from the breast of the eagle. A bunch of night-owl
feathers is on either side of the eagle tail where it is attached to the head. The horizontal
and perpendicular lines on the face were referred to in the description of the first sand painting.
The projection on the right of the throat is a fox skin. Hostjoghon’s headdress is similar
to that of Hasjelti’s. Two strips of beaver skin tipped with six quills of the porcupine are
attached to the right of the throat. The four colored stars on the body are ornaments of beads.
The shirt of this god is invisible; the dark is the dark of the body. Hostjoghon carries a
staff colored black from a charred plant. The Navajo paint their bodies with the same plant.
The top of the staff is ornamented with a turkey’s tail tied to the staff with white cotton
cord; eagle and turkey plumes are alternately attached to the staff with a cord.

