'You are strict to your time,' said the chief robber.  'I knew you would be.  So, when Ned
Marmion came to Beverley, and would have us to see his hunting at Tanfield, we came on thinking
to meet you.  Marmion here has a nooning spread in the forest; ere we go on to Thirsk, where
I have a matter to settle between two wrong-headed churls.  How has it been with you, Jamie?
you have added to your meine.'

'Ah, Hal! never in all your cut-purse days did you fall on such an emprise as I have achieved.'

'Let us hear,' said Hal, linking his arm in Sir James's, who turned for a moment to say, 'Take
care of the lad, John; he is a young kinsman of mine.'

'Kinsman!' thought Malcolm; 'do all wandering Stewarts claim kin to the blood royal?' but then,
as he looked at Sir James's stately head, he felt that no assumption could be unbecoming in
one of such a presence, and so kind to himself; and, ashamed of the moment's petulance, dismounted,
and, as John said, 'This is the way to our noon meat,' he let himself be conducted through
the trees to a glade, sheltered from the wind, where a Lenten though not unsavoury meal of
bread, dried fish, and eggs was laid out on the grass, in a bright warm sunshine; and Hal,
declaring himself to have a hunter's appetite, and that he knew Jamie had been starved in Scotland,
and was as lean as a greyhound, seated himself on the grass, and to Malcolm's extreme surprise,
not to say disgust, was served by Lord Marmion on the knee and with doffed cap.

While the meal was being eaten, Malcolm studied the strangers.  Lord Marmion was a good-humoured,
hearty-looking young Yorkshireman, but the other two attracted his attention far more.  They
were evidently brothers, one perhaps just above, the other just below, thirty; both of the
most perfect mould of symmetry, activity, and strength, though perhaps more inclining to agility
than robustness.  Both were fair-complexioned, and wore no beard; but John was the paler, graver,
and more sedate, and his aquiline profile had an older look than that borne by Hal's perfectly
regular features.  It would have been hard to define what instantly showed the seniority of
his brother, for the clearness of his colouring--bright red and white like a lady's--his short,
well-moulded chin, and the fresh earnestness and animation of his countenance, gave an air
of perpetual youth in spite of the scar of an arrow on the cheek which told of at least one
battle; but there were those manifestations of being used to be the first which are the evident
tokens of elder sonship, and the lordly manner more and more impressed Malcolm.  He was glad
that his own Sir James was equal in dignity, as well as superior in height, and he thought
the terrible red lightning of those auburn eyes would be impossible to the sparkling azure
eyes of the Englishman, steadfast, keen, and brilliant unspeakably though they were; but so
soon as Sir James seemed to have made his explanation, the look was most winningly turned on
him, a hand held out, and he was thus greeted: 'Welcome, my young Prince Malcolm; I am happy
that your cousin thinks so well of our cheer, that he has brought you to partake it.'

'His keeper, Somerset,' thought Malcolm, as he bowed stiffly; 'he seems to treat me coolly
enough.  I come to serve my King,' he said, but he was scarcely heard; for as Hal unbuckled
his sword before sitting down on the grass, he thrust into his bosom a small black volume,
with which he seemed to have been beguiling the time; and John exclaimed--

'There goes Godfrey de Bulloin.  I tell you, Jamie, 'tis well you are come!  Now have I some
one to speak with.  Ever since Harry borrowed my Lady of Westmoreland's book of the Holy War,
he has not had a word to fling at me.'

'Ah!' said Sir James, 'I saw a book, indeed, of the Holy Land!  It would tempt him too much
to hear how near the Border it dwells!  What was it named, Malcolm?'

'The "Itinerarium of Adamnanus,"' replied Malcolm, blushing at the sudden appeal.

'Ha!  I've heard of it,' cried the English knight.  'I sent to half the convent libraries to
beg the loan when Gilbert de Lannoy set forth for the survey of Palestine.  Does the Monk of
Iona tell what commodity of landing there may be on the coast?'

Malcolm had the sea-port towns at his fingers' ends, and having in the hard process of translation,
and reading and re-reading one of the few books that came into his hands, nearly mastered the
contents, he was able to reply with promptness and precision, although with much amazement, for

   'Much he marvelled a knight of pride
   Like book-bosomed priest should ride;'

nor had he ever before found his accomplishments treated as aught but matters of scorn among
the princes and nobles with whom he had occasionally been thrown.

'Good! good!' said Sir Harry at last.  'Well read, and clearly called to mind.  The stripling
will do you credit, James.  Where have you studied, fair cousin?'

Cousin! was it English fashion to make a cousin of everybody?  But gentle, humble Malcolm had
no resentment in him, and felt gratified at the friendly tone of so grand and manly-looking
a knight.  'At home,' he answered, 'with a travelling scholar who had studied at Padua and Paris.'

'That is where you Scots love to haunt!  But know you how they are served there?  I have seen
the gibbet where the Mayor of Paris hung two clerks' sons for loving his daughters over well!'

'The clerks' twa sons of Owsenford that were foully slain!' cried Malcolm, his face lighting
up.  'Oh, Sir, have you seen their gibbet?'

'What? were they friends of yours?' asked Hal, much amused, and shaking his head merrily at
Sir James.  'Ill company, I fear--'

'Only in a ballad,' said Malcolm, colouring, 'that tells how at Yuletide the ghosts came to
their mother with their hats made of the birk that grew at the gates of Paradise.'

'A rare ballad must that be!' exclaimed Hal.  'Canst sing it?  Or are you weary?--Marmion,
prithee tell some of the fellows to bring my harp from the baggage.'

'His own harp is with ours,' said Sir James; 'he will make a better figure therewith.'

At his sign, the attendant, Nigel, the only person besides Lord Marmion of Tanfield who had
been present at the meal, besides the two Stewarts and the English brothers, rose and disappeared
between the trees, beyond which a hum of voices, an occasional laugh, and the stamping of horses
and jingling of bridles, betokened that a good many followers were in waiting.  Malcolm's harp
was quickly brought, having been slung in its case to the saddle of Halbert's horse; and as
he had used it to beguile the last evening's halt, it did not need much tuning.  Surprised
as his princely notions were at being commanded rather than requested to sing, the sweet encouraging
smile and tone of kind authority banished all hesitation in complying, and he gave the ballad
of the Clerks' Twa Sons of Owsenford with much grace and sweetness, while the weakness of his
voice was compensated by the manlier strains with which Sir James occasionally chimed in. 
Then, as Harry gave full meed of appreciative praise and thanks, Sir James said, 'Lend me thine
harp, Malcolm; I have learnt thy song now; and thou, Harry, must hear and own how far our Scottish
minstrelsy exceeds thy boasted Chevy Chase.'

And forth rang in all the mellow beauty of his voice that most glorious of ballads, the Battle
of Otterburn, as much more grand than it had been when he heard it from the glee-man or from
Malcolm, as a magnificent voice, patriotic enthusiasm, and cultivation and refinement, could
make it.  He had lost himself and all around in the passion of the victory, the pathos of the
death.  But no such bright look of thanks recompensed him.  Harry's face grew dark, and he
growled, 'Douglas dead?  Ay, he wins more fields so than alive!  I wish you would keep my old
Shrewsbury friend, Earl Tyneman, as you call him, at home.'

''Tis ill keeping the scholars in bounds when the master is away,' returned Sir James.

'Well, by this time Tom has taught them how to transgress--sent them home with the long scourge
from robbing orchards in Anjou.  He writes to me almost with his foot in the stirrup, about
to give Douglas and Buchan a lesson.  I shall make short halts and long stages south.  This
is too far off for tidings.'

'True,' said Sir John, with a satirical curl of the lip; 'above all, when fair ladies brook
not to ink their ivory fingers.'

'There spake the envious fiend,' laughed the elder brother.  'John bears not the sight of what
he will not or cannot get.'

'I'll never be chained to a lady's litter, nor be forced to loiter till her wimple is pinned,'
retorted John.  'Nor do I like dames with two husbands besides.'

'One would have cancelled the other, as grammarians tell us,' said Harry, 'if thy charms, John,
had cancelled thine hook nose!  I would they had, ere her first marriage.  Humfrey will burn
his fingers there, and we must hasten back to look after that among other things.--My Lord
Marmion,' he added, starting hastily up, and calling to him as he stood at some distance conversing
with the Scottish Nigel, 'so please you, let us have the horses;' and as the gentleman hastened
to give the summons, he said, 'We shall make good way now.  We shall come on Watling Street.
Ha, Jamie, when shall we prove ourselves better men than a pack of Pagan Romans, by having
a set of roads fit for man or beast, of our own making instead of theirs half decayed?  Look
where I will, in England or France, their roads are the same in build--firm as the world itself,
straight as arrows.  An army is off one's mind when once one gets on a Roman way. I'll learn
the trick, and have them from Edinburgh to Bordeaux ere ten years are out; and then, what with
traffic and converse with the world, and ready justice, neither Highland men minor Gascons
will have leisure or taste for robbery.'

'Perhaps Gascons and Scots will have a voice in the matter,' said James, a little stiffly;
and the horses being by this time brought, Sir Harry mounted, and keeping his horse near that
of young Malcolm, to whom he had evidently taken a fancy, he began to talk to him in so friendly
and winning a manner, that he easily drew from the youth the whole history of his acquaintance
with Sir James Stewart, of the rescue of his sister, and the promise to conduct him to the
captive King of Scots, as the only means of saving him from his rapacious kindred.

'Poor lad!' said Harry, gravely.

'Do you know King James, Sir?' asked Malcolm, timidly.

'Know him?' said Harry, turning round to scan the boy with his merry blue eye.  'I know him--yes;
that as far as a poor Welsh knight can know his Grace of Scotland.'

'And, Sir, will he be good lord to me?'

'Eh! that's as you may take him.  I would not be one of yonder Scots under his hands!'

'Has he learned to hate his own countrymen?' asked Malcolm, in an awe- stricken voice.

'Hate?  I trow he has little to love them for.  He is a good fellow enough, my young lord,
when left to himself; but best beware.  Lions in a cage have strange tempers.'

A courier rode up at the moment, and presented some letters, which Sir Harry at once opened
and read, beckoning his brother and Sir James to his side, while Malcolm rode on in their wake,
in a state of dismay and bewilderment.  Nigel and Lord Marmion were together at so great an
interval that he could not fall back on them, nor learn from them who these brothers were.
And there was something in the ironical suppressed pity with which Harry had spoken of his
prospects with the King of Scots, that terrified him all the more, because he knew that Sir
James and Nigel would both hold it unworthy of him to have spoken freely of his own sovereign
with an Englishman.  Would James be another Walter? and, if so, would Sir James Stewart protect
him?  He had acquired much affection for, and strong reliance on, the knight; but there was
something unexplained, and his heart sank.

The smooth line of Watling Street at length opened into the old town of Thirsk, and here bells
were ringing, flags flying from the steeple, music sounded, a mayor and his corporation in
their robes rode slowly forth, crowds lined the road-side, caps were flung up, and a tremendous
shout arose, 'God save King Harry!'

Malcolm gazed about more utterly discomfited.  There was 'Harry,' upright on his horse, listening
with a gracious smile, while the mayor rehearsed a speech about welcome and victories, and
the hopeful queen, and, what was still more to the purpose, tendered a huge pair of gauntlets,
each filled to the brim, one with gold, and the other with silver pieces.

'Eh!  Thanks, Master Mayor, but these gloves must be cleared, ere there is room for me to use
them in battle!'

And handing the gold glove to his brother, he scattered the contents of the silver one far
and wide among the populace, who shouted their blessings louder than ever, and thus he reached
the market-place.  There all was set forth as for the lists, a horseman in armour on either side.

'Heigh now, Sirs,' said Harry, 'have we not wars enough toward without these mummings of vanity?'

'This is no show, my Lord King,' returned the mayor, abashed.  'This is deadly earnest.  These
are two honourable gentlemen of Yorkshire, who are come hither to fight out their quarrel before
your Grace.'

'Two honourable foolsheads!' muttered Harry; then, raising his voice, 'Come hither, gentlemen,
let us hear your quarrel.'

The two gentlemen were big Yorkshiremen, heavy-browed, and their native shrewdness packed far
away behind a bumpkin stolidity and surliness that barely allowed them to show respect to the King.

'So please you, Sir,' growled the first in his throat, 'here stands Christopher Kitson of Barrowbridge,
ready to avouch himself a true man, and prove in yonder fellow's teeth that it was not a broken-kneed
beast that I sent up for a heriard to my Lord Archbishop when my father died; but that he of
Easingwold is a black slanderer and backbiter.'

'And here,' shouted the other, 'stands honest William Trenton of Easingwold, ready to thrust
his lies down his throat, and prove on his body that the heriard he sent to my Lord Archbishop
was a sorry jade.'

'That were best proved by the beast's body,' interposed time King.

'And,' proceeded the doughty Kitson, as though repeating a lesson, 'having vainly pleaded the
matter these nine years, we are come to demand licence to fight it out, with lance, sword,
and dagger, in your royal presence, to set the matter at rest for ever.'

'Breaking a man's head to prove the soundness of a horse!' ejaculated Harry.

'Your licence is given, Sir King?' demanded Kitson.

'My licence is given for a combat a l'outrance,' said Henry; but, as they were about to flounder
back on their big farm-horses, he raised his voice to a thundering sound: 'Solely on this condition,
that he who slays his neighbour, be he Trenton or Kitson, shall hang for the murder ere I leave
Thirsk.'

There was a recoil, and the mayor himself ventured to observe something about the judgment
of God, and 'never so seen.'

'And I say,' thundered Henry, and his blue eyes seemed to flame with vehement indignation,
'I say that the ordeal of battle is shamefully abused, and that it is a taking of God's name--ay,
and man's life--in vain, to appeal thereto on every coxcomb's quarrel, risking the life that
was given him to serve God's ends, not his own sullen fancy.  I will have an end of such things!--And
you, gentlemen, since the heriard is dead, or too old to settle the question, shake hands,
and if you must let blood, come to France with me next month, and flesh your knives on French
and Scots.'

'So please you, Sir,' grumbled Kitson, 'there's Mistress Agnes of Mineshull; she's been in
doubt between the two of us these five years, and she'd promised to wed whichever of us got
the better.'

'I'll settle her mind for her!  Whichever I find foremost among the French, I'll send home
to her a knight, and with better sense to boot than to squabble for nine years as to an old horse.'

He then dismounted, and was conducted into the town-hall, where a banquet was prepared, taking
by the hand Sir James Stewart, and followed by his brother John, and by Malcolm, who felt as
though his brain were turning, partly with amazement, partly with confusion at his own dulness,
as he perceived that not only was the free-spoken Hal, Henry of Monmouth, King of England,
but that his wandering benefactor, the captive knight, whose claim of kindred he had almost
spurned, was his native sovereign, James the First of Scotland.

CHAPTER IV: THE TIDINGS OF BEAUGE

Malcolm understood it at last.  In the great chamber where he was bidden to wait within 'Nigel'
till 'Sir James' came from a private conference with 'Harry,' he had all explained to him,
but within a curtness and brevity that must not be imitated in the present narrative.

The squire Nigel was in fact Sir Nigel Baird, Baron of Bairdsbrae, the gentleman to whom poor
King Robert II. had committed the charge of his young son James, when at fourteen he had been
sent to France, nominally for education, but in reality to secure him from the fate of his
brother Rothsay.

Captured by English vessels on the way, the heir of Scotland had been too valuable a prize
to be resigned by the politic Henry IV., who had lodged him at Windsor Castle, together with
Edmund Mortimer, earl of March, and placed both under the nominal charge of the Prince of Wales,
a youth of a few years older.  Unjust as was the detention, it had been far from severe; the
boys had as much liberty as their age and recreation required, and received the choicest training
both in the arts of war and peace.  They were bred up in close intercourse with the King's
own four sons, and were united with them by the warmest sympathy.

In fact, since usurpation had filled Henry of Lancaster's mind with distrust and jealousy,
his eldest son had been in no such enviable position as to be beyond the capacity of fellow-feeling
for the royal prisoner.

Of a peculiarly frank, open, and affectionate nature, young Henry had so warmly loved the gentle
and fascinating Richard II., that his trust in the father, of whom he had seen little in his
boyhood, had received a severe shock through Richard's fate.  Under the influence of a new,
suspicious, and avaricious wife, the King kept his son as much at a distance as possible, chiefly
on the Welsh marches, learning the art of war under Hotspur and Oldcastle; and when the father
and son were brought together again, the bold, free bearing and extraordinary ability of the
Prince filled the suspicious mind of the King with alarm and jealousy.  To keep him down, give
him no money, and let him gain no influence, was the narrow policy of the King; and Henry,
chafing, dreaming, feeling the injustice, and pining for occupation, shared his complaints
within James, and in many a day-dream restored him freely to his throne, and together redressed
the wrongs of the world.  Meantime, James studied deep in preparation, and recreated himself
with poetry, inspired by the charms of Joan Beaufort, the lovely daughter of the King's legitimatized
brother, the Earl of Somerset; while Henry persisted in a boy's passionate love to King Richard's
maiden widow, Isabel of France.  Entirely unrequited as his affection was, it had a beneficial
effect.  Next after his deep sense of religion, it kept his life pure and chivalrous.  He was
for ever faithful to his future wife, even when Isabel had been returned to France, and his
romantic passion had fixed itself on her younger sister Catherine, whom he endowed in imagination
with all he had seen or supposed in her.

Credited with every excess by the tongue of his stepmother, too active- minded not to indulge
in freakish sports and experiments in life very astounding to commonplace minds, sometimes
when in dire distress even helping himself to his unpaid allowance from his father's mails,
and always with buoyant high spirits and unfailing drollery that scandalized the grave seniors
of the Court, there is full proof that Prince Hal ever kept free from the gross vices which
a later age has fancied inseparably connected with his frolics; and though always in disgrace,
the vexation of the Court, and a by-word for mirth, he was true to the grand ideal he was waiting
to accomplish, and never dimmed the purity and loftiness of his aim.  That little band of princely
youths, who sported, studied, laughed, sang, and schemed in the glades of Windsor, were strangely
brought together--the captive exiled King, the disinherited heir of the realm, and the sons
of the monarch who held the one in durance and occupied the throne of the other; and yet their
affection had all the frank delight of youthful friendship.  The younger lads were in more
favour with their father than was the elder.  Thomas was sometimes preferred to him in a mortifying
manner, John's grave, quiet nature prevented him from ever incurring displeasure, and Humfrey
was the spoilt pet of the family; but nothing could lessen Harry's large-minded love of his
brothers; and he was the idol and hero of the whole young party, who implicitly believed in
his mighty destinies as a renovator of the world, the deliverer of Jerusalem, and restorer
of the unity and purity of the Church.

'Harry the Fifth was crowned,' and with the full intention of carrying out his great dream.
But his promise of releasing James became matter of question.  The House of Albany, who held
the chief power in Scotland, had bound Henry IV. over not to free their master; and it was
plain that to send him home before his welcome was ensured would be but tossing him on their
spears.  In vain James pleaded that he was no boy, and was able to protect himself; and vowed
that when the faithful should rally round his standard, he would be more than a match for his
enemies; or that if not, he would rather die free than live in bondage.  Henry would not listen,
and insisted upon retaining him until he should himself be at leisure to bring him home with
a high hand, utterly disregarding his assurance that this would only be rendering him in the
eyes of his subjects another despised and hated Balliol.

Deeming himself a divinely-appointed redresser of wrongs, Henry was already beginning on his
great work of purifying Europe in preparation for his mighty Crusade; and having won that splendid
victory which laid distracted France at his feet, he only waited to complete the conquest as
thoroughly and rapidly as might be; and, lest his grand purpose should be obstructed, this
great practical visionary, though full of kindness and generosity, kept in thraldom a whole
troop of royal and noble captives.

He had, however, been so far moved by James's entreaties, as to consent that when he himself
offered his devotions at the shrine of St. John of Beverley, the native saint who shared with
the two cordwainers his gratitude for the glories of 'Crispin Crispian's day,' his prisoner
should, unknown to any save the few who shared the pilgrimage, push on to reconnoitre his own
country, and judge for himself, having first sworn to reveal himself to no one, and to avoid
all who could recognize him.  James had visited Glenuskie within a special view to profiting
by the wisdom of Sir David Drummond, and had then been at Stirling, Edinburgh, and Perth. On
his way back, falling in with Malcolm in his distress, he had conceived the project of taking
him to England; and finding himself already more than half recognized by Sir David, had obtained
his most grateful and joyous consent.  In truth, James's heart had yearned to his young cousin,
his own situation had become much more lonely of late; for Henry was no longer the comrade
he had once been, since he had become a keeper instead of a fellow-sufferer.  It was true that
he did his best to forget this by lavishing indulgences on his captive, and insisting on being
treated on terms of brotherly familiarity; but though his transcendent qualities commanded
love, the intimacy could be but a semblance of the once equal friendship.  Moreover, that conspiracy
which cost the life of the Earl of Cambridge had taught James that cautious reserve was needed
in dealing with even his old friends the princes, so easily might he be accused of plotting
either with Henry's immediate heir or with the Mortimers; and, in this guarded life, he had
hailed with delight the opportunity of taking to himself the young orphan cousin of kindred
blood, of congenial tastes, and home-like speech, whom he might treat at once as a younger
brother and friend, and mould by and by into a trusty counsellor and assistant.  That peculiar
wistfulness and gentleness of Malcolm's look and manner, together with the refinement and intellect
apparent to all who conversed with him without alarming him, had won the King's heart, and
made him long to keep the boy with him.  As to Malcolm's longing for the cloister, he deemed
it the result of the weakly health and refined nature which shrank from the barbarism of the
outer world, and he thought it would pass away under shelter from the rude taunts of the fierce
cousins, at a distance from the well-meaning exhortations of the monks, and at the spectacle
of brave and active men who could also be pious, conscientious, and cultivated.  In the renewed
sojourn at Windsor which James apprehended, the training of such a youth as Malcolm of Glenuskie
would be no small solace.

By the time Malcolm had learnt as much of all this as Sir Nigel Baird knew, or chose to communicate,
the King entered the room.  He flung himself on his knees, exclaiming, with warm gratitude,
as he kissed the King's hand, 'My liege, I little kenned--'

'I meant thee to ken little,' said James, smiling.  'Well, laddie, wilt thou share the prisoner's
cell?--Ay, Bairdsbrae, you were a true prophet. Harry will do all himself, and will not hear
of losing me to deal with my own people at my own gate.  No, no, he'll have me back with Southron
bows and bills, so soon as this small trifle of France lies quiet in his grasp!  I had nearly
flung back my parole in his face, and told him that no English sword should set me on the Bruce's
throne; but there is something in Harry of Monmouth that one must love, and there are moments
when to see and hear him one would as soon doubt the commission of an angel with a flaming sword.'

'A black angel!' growled Sir Nigel.

'Scoff and chafe, Baird, but look at his work.  Look at Normandy, freed from misrule and exaction,
in peace and order.  Look at this land.  Was ever king so loved?  Or how durst he act as he
did this day?'

'Nay, an it were so at home,' said Baird, 'I had as lief stay here as where a man is not free
to fight out his own feud.  Even this sackless callant thought it shame to see two honest men
baulked.'

'Poor Scotland!' sighed James.  'Woe is the land where such thoughts come readiest to gray-haired
men and innocent boys.  I tell you, cousin, this precious right is the very cause that our
poor country is so lawless and bloody, that yon poor silly sparrow would fain be caged for
fear of the kites and carrion-crows.'

'Alack, my Lord, let me but have my way.  I cannot fight!  Let Patrick Drummond have my sister
and my lands, and your service will be far better done,' said Malcolm.

'I know all that,' said the King, kindly.  'There is time enough for settling that question;
and meantime you will not be spoilt for monk or priest by cheering me awhile in my captivity.
I need you, laddie,' me added, laying his hand on the boy's shoulder, with all the instinctive
fascination of a Stewart.  'I lack a comrade of my own blood, for I am all alone!'

'Oh, Sir!' and Malcolm, looking into his face, saw it full of tenderness.

'Books and masters you shall have,' continued James, 'such as for church or state, cathedral,
cloister, or camp, shall render you the meeter prince; and I pass you my royal word, that if
at full age the cowl be your choice, I will not gainsay you.  Meantime, abide with me, and
be the young brother I have yearned for.'

The King threw his arms round Malcolm, who felt, and unconsciously manifested, a strange bliss
in that embrace, even while fixed in his determination that nothing should make him swerve
from his chosen path, nor render him false to his promise to Patrick and Lilias.  It was a
strange change, from being despised and down-trodden by fierce cousins, or only fondled, pitied,
and treated with consideration by his own nearest and dearest friends, to be the chosen companion
of a king, and such a king.  Nor could it be a wile of Satan, thought Malcolm, since James
still promised him liberty of choice.  He would ask counsel of a priest next time he went to
confession; and in the meantime, in the full tide of gratitude, admiration, and affection,
he gave himself up to the enjoyment of his new situation, and of time King's kindness and solicitude.
This was indeed absolutely that of an elder brother; for, observing that Malcolm's dress and
equipments, the work of Glenuskie looms, supplemented by a few Edinburgh purchases, was uncouth
enough to attract some scornful glances from the crowd who came out to welcome the royal entrance
into York the next day, he instantly sent Brewster in search of the best tailor and lorimer
in the city, and provided so handsomely for the appearance of young Glenuskie, his horse, and
his attendants, that the whole floor of their quarters was strewn with doublets, boots, chaperons,
and gloves, saddles, bridles, and spurs, when the Duke of Bedford loitered into the room, and
began to banter James for thus (as he supposed) pranking himself out to meet the lady of his
love; and then bemoaned the fripperies that had become the rage in their once bachelor court,
vowing, between sport and earnest, that Hal was so enamoured of his fair bride, that anon the
conquest of France would be left to himself and his brother, Tom of Clarence; while James retorted
by thrusts at Bedford's own rusticity of garb, and by endeavouring to force on him a pair of
shoes with points like ram's horns, as a special passport to the favour of Dame Jac--a lady
who seemed to be the object of Duke John's great distaste.

Suddenly a voice was heard in the gallery of the great old mansion where they were lodged.
'John!  John!  Here!--Where is the Duke, I say?'  It was thick and husky, as with some terrible
emotion; and the King and Duke had already started in dismay before the door was thrown open,
and King Henry stood among them, his face of a burning red.

'See here, John!' he said, holding out a letter; and then, with an accent of wrathful anguish,
and a terrible frown, he turned on James, exclaiming, 'I would send you to the Tower, Sir,
did I think you had a hand in this!'

Malcolm trembled, and sidled nearer his prince; while James, with an equally fierce look, replied,
'Hold, Sir!  Send me where you will, but dare not dishonour my name!'  Then changing, as he
saw the exceeding grief on Henry's brow, and heard John's smothered cry of dismay, 'For Heaven's
sake, Harry, what is it?'

'This!' said Henry, less loudly, less hotly, but still with an agony of indignation: 'Thomas
is dead--and by the hand of two of your traitor Scots!'

'Murdered!' cried James, aghast.

'Murdered by all honest laws of war, but on the battlefield,' said Henry. 'Your cousin of Buchan
and old Douglas fell on my brave fellows at Beauge, when they were spent with travel to stop
the robberies in Anjou. They closed in with their pikes on my brave fellows, took Somerset
prisoner, and for Thomas, while he was dealing with a knight named Swinton in front, the villain
Buchan comes behind and cleaves his head in twain; and that is what you Scots call fighting!'

'It was worthy of a son of Albany!' said James.  'Would that vengeance were in my power!'

'Ay, you loved him!' said Henry, grasping James's hand, his passion softened into a burst of
tears, as he wrung his prisoner's hand.  'Nay, who did not love him, my brave, free-hearted
brother?  And that I--I should have dallied here and left him to bear the brunt, and be cut
off by you felon Scots!'  And he hid his face, struggling within an agony of heart-rending
grief, which seemed to sway his whole tall, powerful frame as he leant against the high back
of a chair; while John, together with James, was imploring him not to accuse himself, for his
presence had been needful at home; and, to turn the tenor of his thought, James inquired whether
there were any further disaster.

'Not as yet,' said Henry; 'there is not a man left in that heaven-abandoned crew who knows
how to profit by what they have got! but I must back again ere the devil stir them up a man
of wit!--And you, Sir, can you take order with these heady Scots?'

'From Windsor? no,' said James; 'but set me in the saddle, let me learn war under such a captain
as yourself, and maybe they will not take the field against me; or if they do, the slayer of
Clarence shall rue it.'

'Be it so,' said Henry, wringing his hand.  'You shall with me to France, Jamie, and see war.
The Scots should flock to the Lion rampant, and without them the French are mo better than
deer, under the fool and murderer they call Dauphin.  Yet, alas! will any success give me back
my brother--my brother, the brave and true?' he added, weeping again within time abandon of
an open nature and simple age.  'It was for my sins, my forgetfulness of my great work, that
this has come on me.--Ho, Marmion! carry these tidings from me to the Dean; pray him that the
knell be tolled at the Minster, and a requiem sung for my brother and all who fell with him.
We will be there ourselves, and the mayor must hold us excused from his banquet; these men
are too loyal not to grieve for their King.'

And, with his arm round the neck of his brother John, Henry left the room; and before another
word could be said, Sir Nigel was there, having only retired on the King's entrance.  The news
was of course all over the house, and with an old attendant's freedom he exclaimed, 'So, Sir,
the English have found tough cummers at last!'

'Not too honourably,' said James, sadly.

'Hout, would not the puir loons be glad enow of any gate of coming by a clout at the man's
brother that keeps you captive!'

'They have taken away one of those I loved best!' said James.

'I'm no speaking ill of the lad Clarence himself,' said Nigel; 'he was a braw youth, leal and
bold, and he has died in his helm and spurs, as a good knight should.  I'd wish none of these
princes a waur ending. Moreover, could Swinton have had the wit to keep him living, he'd have
been a bonnie barter for you, my Lord; but ony way the fight was a gallant one, and the very
squire that brought the tidings cannot deny that our Scots fought like lions.'

'Would Douglas but so fight in any good quarrel!' sighed the King.  'But what are you longing
to ask, Malcolm?  Is it for your kinsman Patrick?  I fear me that there is little chance of
your hearing by name of him.'

'I wot not,' said Sir Nigel; 'I did but ask for that hare-brained young cousin of mine, Davie
Baird, that must needs be off on this journey to France; and the squire tells me he was no
herald, to be answerable for the rogues that fought on the other side.'

'We shall soon see for ourselves,' said James; 'I am to make this campaign.'

'You! you, my liege!  Against your own ally, and under the standard of England!  Woe's me,
how could ye be so lost!'

James argued on his own conviction that the true France was with poor Charles VI., and that
it was doing the country no service to prolong the resistance of the Armagnacs and the Dauphin,
who then appeared mere partisans instead of patriots.  As to fighting under the English banner,
no subjection was involved in an adventurer king so doing: had not the King of Bohemia thus
fought at Crecy? and was not the King of Sicily with the French army?  Moreover, James himself
felt the necessity of gaining some experience in the art of war.  Theoretically he had studied
it with all his might, from Caesar, Quintus Curtius, and that favourite modern authority, the
learned ecclesiastic, Jean Pave, who was the Vauban of the fifteenth century; and he had likewise
obtained greedily all the information he could from Henry himself and his warriors; but all
this had convinced him that if war was to be more than a mere raid, conducted by mere spirit
and instinct, some actual apprenticeship was necessary. Even for such a dash, Henry himself
had told him that he would find his book-knowledge an absolute impediment without some practice,
and would probably fail for that very reason when opposed to tough old seasoned warriors. 
And, prudence apart, James, at five-and-twenty, absolutely glowed with shame at the thought
that every one of his companions had borne arms for at least ten years past, while his arrows
had no mark but the target, his lances had all been broken in the tilt-yard.  It was this argument
that above all served to pacify old Bairdsbrae; though he confessed himself very uneasy as
to the prejudice it would create in Scotland, and so evidently loathed the expedition, that
James urged on him to return to Scotland, instead of continuing his attendance.  There was
no fear but that his ransom would be accepted, and he had been absent twelve years from his home.

'No, no, my Lord; I sware to your father that I'd never quit you till I brought you safe home
again, and, God willing, I'll keep my oath.  But what's this puir callant to do, that you were
set upon rearing upon your books at Windsor?'

'He shall choose,' said James.  'Either he shall study at the learned university at Oxford
or at Paris, or he shall ride with me, and see how cities and battles are won.  Speak not yet,
cousin; it takes many months to shake out the royal banner, and you shall look about you ere
deciding. Now give me yonder black cloak; they are assembling for the requiem.'

Malcolm, as he followed his king, was not a little amazed to see that Henry, the magnificent
victor, was wrapped in a plain black serge garment, his short dark hair uncovered, his feet
bare; and that on arriving at the Minster he threw himself on his knees, almost on his face,
before the choir steps, there remaining while the De profundis and the like solemn and mournful
strains floated through the dark vaultings above him, perhaps soothing while giving expression
to the agony of his affliction, and self-accusation, not for the devastation of the turbulent
country of an insane sovereign, but for his having relaxed in the mighty work of renovation
that he had imposed on himself.

Even when the service was ended, the King would not leave the Minster.  He lifted himself up
to bid Bedford and his companions return; but for himself, he intended to remain and confess,
in preparation for being 'houselled' at the Mass for the dead early the next morning, before
hastening on the southern journey.

Was this, thought the bewildered Malcolm as he fell asleep, the godless atmosphere he had been
used to think all that was not Glenuskie or Coldingham--England above all?

Indeed, in the frosty twilight of the spring morning, though Henry was now clad in his usual
garb, sleeplessness, sorrow, and fasting made him as wan and haggard as any ascetic monk; his
eyes were sunken, and his closed lips bore a stern fixed expression, which scarcely softened
even when the sacrificial rite struck the notes of praise; and though a light came into his
eye, it was rather the devotion of one who had offered himself, than the gleam of hopeful exultation.
The horses stood saddled at the west door, for Henry was feverishly eager to reach Pontefract,
where he had left his queen, and wished to avoid the delay of breaking his fast at York, but
only to snatch a meal at some country hostel on his way.

Round the horses, however, a crowd of the citizens were collected to gaze; and two or three
women with children in their arms made piteous entreaties for the King's healing touch for
their little ones.  The kind Henry waited, ungloved his hand, asked his treasurer for the gold
pieces that were a much-esteemed part of the cure, and signed to his attendant chaplain to
say the Collect appointed for the rite.

Fervent blessings were meantime murmured through the crowd, which broke out into loud shouts
of 'God save King Harry!' as he at length leapt into the saddle; but at that moment, a feeble,
withered old man, leaning on a staff, and wearing a bedesman's gown, peered up, and muttered
to a comrade--

'Fair-faced, quotha--fair, maybe, but not long for this world!  One is gone already, and the
rest will not be long after; the holy man's words will have their way--the death mark is on him.'

The words caught James's ear, and he angrily turned round: 'Foul-mouthed raven, peace with
thy traitor croak!' but Bedford caught his arm, crying--

'Hush! 'tis a mere bedesman;' and bending forward to pour a handful of silver into the beggar's
cap, he said, 'Pray, Gaffer, pray--pray for the dead and living, both.'

'So,' said James, as both mounted, 'there's a fee for a boding traitor.'

'I knew his face,' said Bedford, with a shudder; 'he belonged to Archbishop Scrope.'

'A traitor, too,' said James.

'Nay, there was too much cause for his words.  Never shall I forget the day when Scrope was
put to death on this very moor on which we are entering.  There sat my father on his horse,
with us four boys around him, when the old man passed in front of us, and looked at him with
a face pitiful and terrible.  "Harry of Bolingbroke," he said, "because thou hast done these
things, therefore shall thy foes be of thine own household; the sword shall never depart therefrom,
but all the increase of thy house shall die in the flower of their age, and in the fourth generation
shall their name be clean cut off."  The commons will have it that at that moment my father
was struck with leprosy; and struck to the heart assuredly he was, nor was he ever the same
man again.  I always believed that those words made him harder upon every prank of poor Hal's,
till any son save Hal would have become his foe!  And see now, the old bedesman may be in the
right; poor pretty Blanche has long been in her grave, Thomas is with her now, and Jamie,'--he
lowered his voice,--'when men say that Harry hath more of Alexander in him than there is in
other men, it strikes to my heart to think of the ring lying on the empty throne.'

'Now,' said James, 'what strikes me is, what doleful bodings can come into a brave man's head
on a chill morning before he has broken his fast. A tankard of hot ale will chase away omens,
whether of bishop or bedesman.'

'It may chase them from the mind, but will not make away with them,' said John.  'But I might
have known better than to speak to you of such things--you who are well-nigh a Lollard in disbelief
of all beyond nature.'

'No Lollard am I,' said James.  'What Holy Church tells me, I believe devoutly; but not in
that which she bids me loathe as either craft of devils or of men.'

'Ay, of which?  There lies the question,' said John.

'Of men,' said the Scottish king; 'of men who have wit enough to lay hold of the weaker side
even of a sober youth such as Lord John of Lancaster! Your proneness to believe in sayings
and prophecies, in sorceries and magic, is the weakest point of all of you.'

'And it is the weakest point in you, James, that you will not credit upon proof, such proof
as was the fulfilment of the prophecy of the place of my father's death.'

'One such saying as that, fulfilled to the ear, though not in truth, is made the plea for all
this heart-sinking--ay, and what is worse, for the durance of your father's widow as a witch,
and of her brave young son, because forsooth his name is Arthur of Richemont, and some old
Welsh rhymester hath whispered to Harry that Richmond shall come out of Brittany, and be king
of England.'

'Arthur is no worse off than any other captive of Agincourt,' said Bedford; 'and I tell you,
James, the day may come when you will rue your want of heed to timely warnings.'

'Better rue once than pine under them all my life, and far better than let them betray me into
deeming some grewsome crime an act of justice, as you may yet let them do,' said James.

Such converse passed between the two princes, while King Henry rode in advance, for the most
part silent, and only desirous of reaching Pontefract Castle, where he had left the young wife
whose presence he longed for the more in his trouble.  The afternoon set in with heavy rain,
but he would not halt, although he gave free permission to any of his suite to do so; and James
recommended Malcolm to remain, and come on the next day with Brewster.  The boy, however, disclaimed
all weariness, partly because bashfulness made him unwilling to venture from under his royal
kinsman's wing, and partly because he could not bear to let the English suppose that a Scotsman
and a Stewart could be afraid of weather. As the rain became harder with the evening twilight,
silence sank upon the whole troop, and they went splashing on through the deep lanes, in mud
and mire, until the lights of Pontefract Castle shimmered on high from its hill.  The gates
were opened, the horses clattered in, torches came forth, flickering and hissing in the darkness.
The travellers went through what seemed to Malcolm an interminable number of courts and gateways,
and at length flung themselves off their horses, when Henry, striding on, mounted the steps,
entered the building, and, turning the corner of a great carved screen, he and his brother,
with James and Malcolm, found themselves in the midst of a blaze of cressets and tapers, which
lighted up the wainscoted part of the hall.

The whole scene was dazzling to eyes coming in from the dark, and only after a moment or two
could Malcolm perceive that, close to the great fire, sat a party of four, playing at what
he supposed to be that French game with painted cards of which Patrick Drummond had told him,
and that the rest seemed to be in attendance upon them.

Dark eyed and haired, with a creamy ivory skin, and faultless form and feature, the fair Catherine
would have been unmistakable, save that as Henry hurried forward, the lights glancing on his
jaded face, matted hair, and soaked dress, the first to spring forward to meet him was a handsome
young man, who wrung his hand, crying, 'Ah, Harry, Harry, then 'tis too true!' while the lady
made scarcely a step forwards: no shade of colour tinged her delicate cheek; and though she
did not resist his fervent embrace, it was with a sort of recoil, and all she was heard to
say was, 'Eh, Messire, vos bottes sont crottees!'

'You know all, Kate?' he asked, still holding her hand, and looking afraid of inflicting a blow.

'The battle?  Is it then so great a disaster?' and, seeing his amazed glance, 'The poor Messire
de Clarence! it was pity of him; he was a handsome prince.'

'Ah, sweet, he held thee dear,' said Henry, catching at the crumb of sympathy.

'But yes,' said Catherine, evidently perplexed by the strength of his feeling, and repeating,
'He was a beau sieur courtois.  But surely it will not give the Armagnacs the advantage?'

'With Heaven's aid, no!  But how fares it with poor Madge--his wife, I mean?'

'She is away to her estates.  She went this morn, and wished to have taken with her the Demoiselle
de Beaufort; but I forbade that--I could not be left without one lady of the blood.'

'Alack, Joan--' and Henry was turning, but Catherine interrupted him. 'You have not spoken
to Madame of Hainault, nor to the Duke of Orleans. Nay, you are in no guise to speak to any
one,' she added, looking with repugnance at the splashes of mud that reached even to his waist.

'I will don a fresh doublet, sweetheart,' said Henry, more rebuked than seemed fitting, 'and
be ready to sup anon.'

'Supper!  We supped long ago.'

'That may be; but we have ridden long since we snatched our meal, that I might be with thee
the sooner, my Kate.'

'That was not well in you, my Lord, to come in thus dishevelled, steaming with wet--not like
a king.  You will be sick, my Lord.'

The little word of solicitude recalled his sweet tender smile of gratitude.  No fear, ma belle;
sickness dares not touch me.'

'Then,' said the Queen, 'you will be served in your chamber, and we will finish our game.'

Henry turned submissively away; but Bedford tarried an instant to say, 'Fair sister, he is
sore distressed.  It would comfort him to have you with him.  He has longed for you.'

Catherine opened her beautiful brown eyes in a stare of surprise and reproof at the infraction
of the rules of ceremony which she had brought with her.  John of Bedford had never seemed
to her either beau or courtois, and she looked unutterable things, to which he replied by an
elevation of his marked eyebrows.

She sat down to her game, utterly ignoring the other princes in their weather-beaten condition;
and they were forced to follow the King, and make their way to their several chambers, for
Queen Catherine's will was law in matters of etiquette.

'The proud peat!  She is jealous of every word Harry speaks--even to his cousin,' muttered
James, as he reached his own room.  'You saw her, though,--you saw her!' he added, smiling,
as he laid his hand on Malcolm's shoulder.

The boy coloured like a poppy, and answered awkwardly enough, 'The Lady Joan, Sir?'

'Who but the Lady Joan, thou silly lad?  How say'st thou?  Will not Scotland forget in the
sight of that fair face all those fule phantasies--the only folly I heard at Glenuskie?'

'Methinks,' said Malcolm, looking down in sheer awkwardness, 'it were easier to bow to her
than to King Harry's dame.  She hath more of stateliness.'

'Humph!' said James, 'dost so serve thy courtly 'prenticeship?  Nay, but in a sort I see thy
meaning.  The royal blood of England shows itself to one who hath an eye for princeliness of
nature.'

'Nay,' said Malcolm, gratified, 'those dark eyes and swart locks--'

'Dark eyes--swart locks!' interrupted the King.  'His wits have gone wool- gathering.'

'Indeed, Sir!' exclaimed Malcolm, 'I thought you meant the lady who stood by the Queen's table,
with the grand turn of the neck and the white wimple and veil.'

'Pshaw!' said James; 'the foolish callant! he hath taken that great brown Luxemburg nun of
Dame Jac's for the Rose of Somerset.'

However, James, seeing how confounded the boy was by this momentary displeasure, explained
to him who the other persons he had seen were--Jaqueline, the runaway Countess of Hainault
in her own right, and Duchess of Brabant by marriage; Humfrey, duke of Gloucester, the King's
young, brilliant brother; the grave, melancholy Duke of Orleans, who had been taken captive
at Agincourt, and was at present quartered at Pontefract; the handsome, but stout and heavy-looking
Earl of March; brave Lord Warwick; Sir Lewis Robsart, the old knight to whose charge the Queen
had been specially committed from the moment of her betrothal; and a young, bold, gay-looking
lad, of Malcolm's own age, but far taller and stouter, and with a merry, half-defiant, half-insouciant
air, who had greatly taken his fancy, was, he was told, Ralf Percy, the second son of Sir Harry
Percy.

'Of him they called Hotspur?--who was taken captive at Otterburn, who died a rebel!' exclaimed
Malcolm.

'Ay,' said James; 'but King Harry had learnt the art of war as a boy, first under Hotspur,
in Wales; nor doth he love that northern fashion of ours of keeping up feud from generation
to generation.  So hath he restored the eldest son to his barony, and set him to watch our
Borders; and the younger, Ralf, he is training in his own school of chivalry.'

More wonders for Malcolm Stewart, who had learnt to believe it mere dishonour and tameness
to forgive the son for his father's deeds.  A cloistered priest could hardly do so: pardon
to a hostile family came only with the last mortal throe; and here was this warlike king forgiving
as a mere matter of course!

'But,' added James, 'you had best not speak of your bent conventwards in the Court here.  I
should not like to have you called the monkling!'

Malcolm crimsoned, with the resolution never to betray himself.

CHAPTER V: WHITTINGTON S FEAST

The next day the royal train set forth from Pontefract, and ere mounting, James presented his
young kinsman to the true Joan Beaufort--fair-haired, soft-featured, blue-eyed, and with a
lovely air of graciousness, as she greeted him with a sweet, blushing, sunny smile, half that
of the queen in anticipation, half that of the kindly maiden wishing to set a stranger at ease.
So beautiful was she, that Malcolm felt annihilated at the thought of his blunder of last night.

As they rode on, James was entirely occupied with the lady, and Malcolm was a good deal left
to himself; for, though the party was numerous, he knew no one except the Duke of Bedford,
who was riding with the King and Lord Warwick, in deep consultation, while Sir Nigel Baird,
Lord Marmion, and the rest were in the rear.  He fell into a mood of depression such as had
not come upon him since he passed the border, thinking himself despised by all for being ill-favoured
and ill-dressed, and chafing, above all, at the gay contempt he fancied in young Ralf Percy's
eye.  He became constantly more discontented with this noisy turmoil, and more resolved to
insist on returning to the peaceful cloister where alone he could hide his head and be at rest.

The troop halted for what they called their noon meat at the abode of a hospitable Yorkshire
knight; but King Henry, in order that the good gentleman's means should not be overtasked,
had given directions that only the ladies and the princes should enter the house, while the
rest of the suite should take their meal at the village inn.

King James, in attending to Joan, had entirely forgotten his cousin; and Malcolm, doubtful
and diffident, was looking hesitatingly at the gateway, when Ralf Percy called out, 'Ha! you
there, this is our way.  That is only for the royal folk; but there's good sack and better
sport down here!  I'll show you the way,' he added, good-naturedly, softened, as most were,
by the startled, wistful, timid look.

Malcolm, ashamed to say he was royal, but surprised at the patronage, was gratefully following,
when old Bairdsbrae indignantly laid his hand on the rein.  'Not so, Sir; this is no place
for you!'

'Let me alone!' entreated Malcolm, as he saw Percy's amazed look and whistle of scorn.  'They
don't want me.'

'You will never have your place if you do not take it,' said the old gentleman; and leading
the trembling, shrinking boy up to the door, he continued, 'For the honour of Scotland, Sir!'
and then announcing Malcolm by his rank and title, he almost thrust him in.

Fancying he detected a laugh on Ralf Percy's face, and a sneer on that of the stout English
porter, Malcolm felt doubly wretched as he was ushered into the hall and the buzz of talk and
the confusion made by the attendance of the worthy knight and his many sons, one of whom, waiting
with better will than skill, had nearly run down the shy limping Scotsman, who looked wildly
for refuge at some table.  In his height of distress, a kindly gesture of invitation beckoned
to him, and he found himself seated and addressed, first in French, and then in careful foreign
English, by the same lady whom he had yesterday taken for Joan of Somerset, namely, Esclairmonde
de Luxemburg.

He was too much confused to look up till the piece of pasty and the wine with which the lady
had caused him to be supplied were almost consumed, and it was not till she had made some observations
on the journey that he became at ease enough to hazard any sort of answer, and then it was
in his sweet low Scottish voice, with that irresistibly attractive look of shy wistful gratitude
in his great soft brown eyes, while his un-English accent caused her to say, 'I am a stranger
here, like yourself, my Lord;' and at the same moment he first raised his eyes to behold what
seemed to him perfect beauty and dignity, an oval face, richly-tinted olive complexion, dark
pensive eyes, a sweet grave mouth smiling with encouraging kindness, and a lofty brow that
gave the whole face a magnificent air, not so much stately as above and beyond this world.
It might have befitted St. Barbara or St. Katherine, the great intellectual virgin visions
of purity and holiness of the middle ages; but the kindness of the smile went to Malcolm's
heart, and emboldened him to answer in his best French, 'You are from Holland, lady?'

'Not from the fens,' she answered.  'My home lies in the borders of the forest of Ardennes.'

And then they found that they understood each other best when she spoke French, and Malcolm
English, or rather Scotch; and their acquaintance made so much progress, that when the signal
was again given to mount, the Lady Esclairmonde permitted Malcolm to assist her to her saddle;
and as he rode beside her he felt pleased with himself, and as if Ralf Percy were welcome to
look at him now.

On Esclairmonde's other hand there rode a small, slight girl, whom Malcolm took for quite a
child, and paid no attention to; but presently old Sir Lewis Robsart rode back with a message
that my Lady of Westmoreland wished to know where the Lady Alice Montagu was.  A gentle, timid
voice answered, 'O Sir, I am well here with Lady Esclairmonde.  Pray tell my good lady so.'

And therewith Sir Lewis smiled, and said, 'You could scarcely be in better hands, fair damsel,'
and rode back again; while Alice was still entreating, 'May I stay with you, dear lady?  It
is all so strange and new!'

Esclairmonde smiled, and said, 'You make me at home here, Mademoiselle. It is I who am the
stranger!'

'Ah! but you have been in Courts before.  I never lived anywhere but at Middleham Castle till
they fetched me away to meet the Queen.'

For the gentle little maiden, a slender, fair-haired, childish-faced creature, in her sixteenth
year, was the motherless child and heiress of the stout Earl of Salisbury, the last of the
Montacutes, or Montagues, who was at present fighting the King's battles in France, but had
sent his commands that she should be brought to Court, in preparation for fulfilling the long-arranged
contract between her and Sir Richard Nevil, one of the twenty-two children of the Earl of Westmoreland.

She was under the charge of the Countess--a stately dame, with all the Beaufort pride; and
much afraid of her she was, as everything that was shy or forlorn seemed to turn towards the
maiden whose countenance not only promised kindness but protection.

Presently the cavalcade passed a gray building in the midst of green fields and orchards, where,
under the trees, some black-veiled figures sat spinning.

'A nunnery!' quoth Esclairmonde, looking eagerly after it as she rode past.

'A nunnery!' said Malcolm, encouraged into the simple confidingness of a young boy.  'How unlike
the one where my sister is!  Not a tree is near it; it is perched upon a wild crag overhanging
the angry sea, and the winds roar, and the gulls and eagles scream, and the waves thunder round
it!'

'Yet it is not the less a haven of peace,' replied Esclairmonde.

'Verily,' said Malcolm, 'one knows what peace is under that cloister, where all is calm while
the winds rave without.'

'You know how to love a cloister,' said the lady, as she heard his soft, sad tones.

'I had promised myself to make my home in one,' said Malcolm; 'but my King will have me make
trial of the world first.  And so please you,' he added, recollecting himself, 'he forbade
me to make my purpose known; so pray, lady, be so good as to forget what I have said.'

'I will be silent,' said Esclairmonde; 'but I will not forget, for I look on you as one like
myself, my young lord.  I too am dedicated, and only longing to reach my cloistered haven.'

She spoke it out with the ease of those days when the monastic was as recognized a profession
as any other calling, and yet with something of the desire to make it evident on what ground
she stood.

Lady Alice uttered an exclamation of surprise.

'Yes,' said Esclairmonde, 'I was dedicated his my infancy, and promised myself in the nunnery
at Dijon when I was seven years old.'

Then, as if to turn the conversation from herself, she asked of Malcolm if he too had made any vow.

'Only to myself,' said Malcolm.  'Neither my Tutor nor the Prior of Coldingham would hear my
vows.'  And he was soon drawn into telling his whole story, to which the ladies both listened
with great interest and kindness, Esclairmonde commending his resolution to leave the care
of his lands and vassals to one whom he represented as so much better fitted to bear them as
Patrick Drummond, and only regretting the silence King James had enjoined, saying she felt
that there was safety and protection in being avowed as a destined religious.

'And you are one,' said Lady Alice, looking at her in wonder.  'And yet you are with that lady--'
And the girl's innocent face expressed a certain wonder and disgust that no one could marvel
at who had heard the Flemish Countess talk in the loudest, broadest, most hoydenish style.

'She has been my very good lady,' said Esclairmonde; 'she has, under the saints, saved me from
much.'

'Oh, I entreat you, tell us, dear lady!' entreated Alice.  It was not a reticent age.  Malcolm
Stewart had already avowed himself in his own estimation pledged to a monastic life, and Esclairmonde
of Luxemburg had reasons for wishing her position and intentions to be distinctly understood
by all with whom she came in contact; moreover, there was a certain congeniality in both her
companions, their innocence and simplicity, that drew out confidence, and impelled her to defend
her lady.

'My poor Countess,' she said, 'she has been sorely used, and has suffered much.  It is a piteous
thing when our little imperial fiefs go to the spindle side!'

'What are her lands?' asked Malcolm.

'Hainault, Holland, and Zealand,' replied the lady.  'Her father was Count of Hainault, her
mother the sister of the last Duke of Burgundy--him that was slain on the bridge of Montereau.
She was married as a mere babe to the Duke of Touraine, who was for a brief time Dauphin, but
he died ere she was sixteen, and her father died at the same time.  Some say they both were
poisoned.  The saints forfend it should be true; but thus it was my poor Countess was left
desolate, and her uncle, the Bishop of Liege--Jean Sans Pitie, as they call him--claimed her
inheritance.  You should have seen how undaunted she was!'

'Were you with her then?' asked Alice Montagu.

'Yes.  I had been taken from our convent at Dijon, when my dear brothers, to whom Heaven be
merciful! died at Azincourt.  My oncles a la mode de Bretagne--how call you it in English?'

'Welsh uncles,' said Alice.

'They are the Count de St. Pol and the Bishop of Therouenne.  They came to Dijon.  In another
month I should have been seventeen, and been admitted as a novice; but, alack! there were all
the lands that came through my grandmother, in Holland and in Flanders, all falling to me,
and Monseigneur of Therouenne, like almost all secular clergy, cannot endure the religious
orders, and would not hear of my becoming a Sister. They took me away, and the Bishop declared
my dedication null, and they would have bestowed me in marriage at once, I believe, if Heaven
had not aided me, and they could not agree on the person.  And then my dear Countess promised
me that she would never let me be given without my free will.'

'Then,' said Alice, 'the Bishop did cancel your dedication?'

'Yes,' said Esclairmonde; 'but none can cancel the dedication of my heart.  So said the holy
man at Zwoll.'

'How, lady?' anxiously inquired Malcolm; 'has not a bishop power to bind and unloose?'

'Yea,' said Esclairmonde, 'such power that if my childish promise had been made without purpose
or conscience thereof, or indeed if my will were not with it, it would bind me no more, there
were no sin in wedlock for me, no broken vow.  But my own conscience of my vow, and my sense
that I belong to my Heavenly Spouse, proved, he said, that it was not my duty to give myself
to another, and that whereas none have a parent's right over me, if I have indeed chosen the
better part, He to whom I have promised myself will not let it be taken from me, though I might
have to bear much for His sake.  And when I said in presumption that such would lie light on
me, he bade me speak less and pray more, for I knew not the cost.'

'He must have been a very holy man,' said Alice, 'and strict withal.  Who was he?'

'One Father Thomas, a Canon Regular of the chapter of St. Agnes, a very saint, who spends his
life in copying and illuminating the Holy Scripture, and in writing holy thoughts that verily
seem to have been breathed into him by special inspiration of God.  It was a sermon of his
in Lent, upon chastening and perplexity, that I heard when first I was snatched from Dijon,
that made me never rest till I had obtained his ghostly counsel.  If I never meet him again,
I shall thank Heaven for those months at Zwoll all my life--ere the Duke of Burgundy made my
Countess resign Holland for twelve years to her uncle, and we left the place.  Then, well-nigh
against her will, they forced her into a marriage with the Duke of Brabant, though he be her
first cousin, her godson, and a mere rude boy.  I cannot tell you how evil were the days we
often had then.  If he had been left to himself, Madame might have guided him; but ill men
came about him; they maddened him with wine and beer; they excited him to show that he feared
her not; he struck her, and more than once almost put her in danger of her life.  Then, too,
his mother married the Bishop of Liege, her enemy--

'The Bishop!'

'He had never been consecrated, and had a dispensation.  That marriage deprived my poor lady
of even her mother's help.  All were against her then; and for me too it went ill, for the
Duke of Burgundy insisted on my being given to a half-brother of his, one they call Sir Boemond
of Burgundy--a hard man of blood and revelry.  The Duke of Brabant was all for him, and so
was the Duchess-mother; and though my uncles would not have chosen him, yet they durst not
withstand the Duke of Burgundy.  I tried to appeal to the Emperor Sigismund, the head of our
house, but I know not if he ever heard of my petition.  I was in an exceeding strait, and had
only one trust, namely, that Father Thomas had told me that the more I threw myself upon God,
the more He would save me from man.  But oh! they seemed all closing in on me, and I knew that
Sir Boemond had sworn that I should pay heavily for my resistance.  Then one night my Countess
came to me.  She showed me the bruises her lord had left on her arms, and told me that he was
about to banish all of us, her ladies, into Holland, and to keep her alone to bear his fury,
and she was resolved to escape, and would I come with her?  It seemed to me the message of
deliverance.  Her nurse brought us peasant dresses, high stiff caps, black boddices, petticoats
of many colours, and therein we dressed ourselves, and stole out, ere dawn, to a church, where
we knelt till the Sieur d'Escaillon--the gentleman who attends Madame still--drove up in a
farmer's garb, with a market cart, and so forth from Bruges we drove.  We cause to Valenciennes,
to her mother; but we found that she, by persuasion of the Duke, would give us both up; so
the Sieur d'Escaillon got together sixty lances, and therewith we rode to Calais, where never
were weary travellers more courteously received than we by Lord Northumberland, the captain
of Calais.'

'Oh, I am glad you came to us English!' cried Alice.  'Only I would it had been my father who
welcomed you.  And now?'

'Now I remain with my lady, as the only demoiselle she has from her country; and, moreover,
I am waiting in the trust that my kinsmen will give up their purpose of bestowing me in marriage,
now that I am beyond their reach; and in time I hope to obtain sufficient of my own goods for
a dowry for whatever convent I may enter.'

'Oh, let it be an English one!' cried Alice.

'I have learnt to breathe freer since I have been on English soil,' said Esclairmonde, smiling;
'but where I may rest at last, Heaven only knows!'

'This is a strange country,' said Malcolm.  'No one seems afraid of violence and wrong here.'

'Is that so strange?' asked Alice, amazed.  'Why, men would be hanged if they did violence!'

'I would we were as sure of justice at my home,' sighed Esclairmonde. 'King Henry will bring
about a better rule.'

'Never doubt,' cried Salisbury's daughter.  'When France is once subdued, there will be no
more trouble, he will make your kinsmen do you right, dear demoiselle, and oh! will you not
found a beauteous convent?'

'King Henry has not conquered France yet,' was all Esclairmonde said.

'Ha!' cried the buxom Countess Jaqueline, as the ladies dismounted, 'never speak to me more,
our solemn sister.  When have I done worse than lure a young cavalier, and chain him all day
with my tongue?'

'He is a gentle boy!' said Esclairmonde, smiling.

'Truly he looked like a calf turned loose among strange cattle!  How gat he into the hall?'

'He is of royal Scottish blood,' said Esclairmonde 'cousin-german to King James.'

'And our grave nun has a fancy to tame the wild Scots, like a second St. Margaret!  A king's
grandson! fie, fie! what, become ambitious, Clairette?  Eh? you were so occupied, that I should
have been left to no one but Monseigneur of Gloucester, but that I was discreet, and rode with
my Lord Bishop of Winchester.  How he chafed! but I know better than to have tete-a-tetes with
young sprigs of the blood royal!'

Esclairmonde laughed good-humouredly, partly in courtesy to her hoyden mistress, but partly
at the burning, blushing indignation she beheld in the artless face of Alice Montagu.

The girl was as shy as a fawn, frightened at every word from knight or lady, and much in awe
of her future mother-in-law, a stiff and stately dame, with all the Beaufort haughtiness; so
that Lady Westmoreland gladly and graciously consented to the offer of the Demoiselle de Luxemburg
to attend to the little maiden, and let her share her chamber and her bed. And indeed Alice
Montagu, bred up in strictness and in both piety and learning, as was sometimes the case with
the daughters of the nobility, had in all her simplicity and bashfulness a purity and depth
that made her a congenial spirit with the grave votaress, whom she regarded on her side with
a young girl's enthusiastic admiration for a grown woman, although in point of fact the years
between them were few.

The other ladies of the Court were a little in awe of the Demoiselle de Luxemburg, and did
not seek her when they wished to indulge in the gossip whose malice and coarseness she kept
in check; but if they were anxious, or in trouble, they always came to her as their natural
consoler; and the Countess Jaqueline, bold and hoydenish as she was, kept the license of her
tongue and manners under some shadow of restraint before her, and though sometimes bantering
her, often neglecting her counsel, evidently felt her attendance a sort of safeguard and protection.

The gentlemen were mostly of the opinion of the Duke of Gloucester, who said that the Lady
Esclairmonde was so like Deborah, come out of a Mystery, that it seemed to be always Passion-tide
where she was; and she, moreover, was always guarded in her manner towards them, keeping her
vocation in the recollection of all by her gravely and coldly courteous demeanour, and the
sober hues and fashion of her dress; but being aware of Malcolm's destination, perceiving his
loneliness, and really attracted by his pensive gentleness, she admitted him to far more friendly
intercourse than any other young noble, while he revered and clung to her much as Lady Alice
did, as protector and friend.

King James was indeed so much absorbed in his own lady-love as to have little attention to
bestow on his young cousin, and he knew, moreover, that to be left to such womanly training
as ladies were bound to bestow on young squires and pages was the best treatment for the youth,
who was really thriving and growing happier every day, as he lost his awkwardness and acquired
a freedom and self-confidence such as he could never have imagined possible in his original
brow-beaten state, though without losing the gentle modesty and refinement that gave him such
a charm.

A great sorrow awaited him, however, at Leicester, where Easter was to be spent.  A messenger
came from Durham, bringing letters from Coldingham to announce the death of good Sir David
Drummond, which had taken place two days after Malcolm had left him, all but the youth himself
having well known that his state was hopeless.

In his grief, Malcolm found his chief comforter in Esclairmonde, who kindly listened when he
talked of the happy old times at Glenuskie, and of the kindness and piety of his guardian;
while she lifted his mind to dwell on the company of the saints; and when he knew that her
thoughts went, like his, to his fatherly friend in the solemn services connected with the departed,
he was no longer desolate, and there was almost a sweetness in the grief of which his fair
saint had taken up a part.  She showed him likewise some vellum pages on which her ghostly
father, the Canon of St. Agnes, had written certain dialogues between the Divine Master and
His disciple, which seemed indeed to have been whispered by heavenly inspiration, and which
soothed and hallowed his mourning for the guide and protector of his youth.  He loved to dwell
on her very name, Esclairmonde--'light of the world.'  The taste of the day hung many a pun
and conceit upon names, and to Malcolm this--which had, in fact, been culled out of romance--seemed
meetly to express the pure radiance of consolation and encouragement that seemed to him to
shine from her, and brighten the life that had hitherto been dull and gloomy--nay, even to
give him light and joy in the midst of his grief.

At that period Courts were not much burdened with etiquette.  No feudal monarch was more than
the first gentleman, and there was no rigid line of separation of ranks, especially where,
as among the kings of the Red Rose, the boundaries were so faint between the princes and the
nobility; and as Catherine of Valois was fond of company, and indolently heedless of all that
did not affect her own dignity or ease, the whole Court, including some of the princely captives,
lived as one large family, meeting at morning Mass in church or chapel, taking their meals
in common, riding, hunting, hawking, playing at bowls, tennis, or stool-ball, or any other
pastime, in such parties as suited their inclinations; and spending the evening in the great
hall, in conversation varied by chess, dice, and cards, recitals of romance, and music, sometimes
performed by the choristers of the Royal chapel, or sometimes by the company themselves, and
often by one or other of the two kings, who were both proficients as well with the voice as
with the lute and organ.

Thus Malcolm had many opportunities of being with the Demoiselle of Luxemburg: and almost a
right was established, that when she sat in the deep embrasure of a window with her spinning,
he should be on the cushioned step beneath; when she mounted, he held the stirrup; and when
the church bells were ringing, he led her by her fair fingers to her place in the nave, and
back again to the hall; and when the manchet and rere supper were brought into the hall, he
mixed her wine and water, and held the silver basin and napkin to her on bended knee, and had
become her recognized cavalier.  He was really thriving.  Even the high-spirited son of Hotspur
could not help loving and protecting him.

'Have a care,' said Ralf to a lad of ruder mould; 'I'll no more see that lame young Scot maltreated
than a girl.'

'He is no better than a girl,' growled his comrade; 'my little brother Dick would be more than
a match for him!'

'I wot not that,' said Percy; 'there's a drop of life and spirit at the bottom; and for the
rest, when he looks up with those eyes of his, and smiles his smile, it is somehow as if it
were beneath a man to vex him wilfully.  And he sees so much meaning in everything, too, that
it is a dozen times better sport to hear him talk than one of you fellows, who have only wit
enough to know a hawk from a heron-schaw.'

After a grave Easter-tide spent at Leicester, the Court moved to Westminster, where Henry had
to meet his parliament, and obtain supplies for the campaign which was to revenge the death
of Clarence.

There was no great increase of gaiety even here, for Henry was extremely occupied, both with
regulating matters for government during his absence, and in training the troops who began
to flock to his standard; so that the Queen complained that his presence in England was of
little service to her, since he never had any leisure, and there were no pastimes.

'Well, Dame,' said Henry, gaily, 'there is one revel for you.  I have promised to knight the
Lord Mayor, honest Whittington, and I hear he is preparing a notable banquet in the Guild Hall.'

'A city mayor!' exclaimed Queen Catherine, with ineffable disgust.  'My brothers would sooner
cut off his roturier head than dub him knight!'

'Belike,' said Henry, dryly; 'but what kind of friends have thy brothers found at Paris?  Moreover,
this Whittington may content thee as to blood. Rougedragon hath been unfolding to me his lineage
of a good house in Gloucestershire.'

'More shame that he should soil his hands with trade!' said the Queen.

'See what you say when he has cased those fair hands in Spanish gloves. You ladies should know
better than to fall out with a mercer.'

'Ah!' said Duke Humfrey, 'they never saw the silks and samites wherewith he fitted out my sister
Philippa for the Swedes!  Lucky the bride whose wardrobe is purveyed by honest Dick!'

'Is it not honour enough for the mechanical hinds that we wear their stuffs,' said Countess
Jaqueline, 'without demeaning ourselves to eat at their boards?  The outrecuidance of the rogues
in the Netherlands would be surpassing, did we feed it in that sort.'

''Tis you that will be fed, Dame Jac,' laughed Henry.  'I can tell you, their sack and their
pasties, their march-pane and blanc-manger, far exceed aught that a poor soldier can set before
you.'

'Moreover,' observed Humfrey, 'the ladies ought to see the romaunt of the Cat complete.'

'How!' cried Jaqueline, 'is it, then, true that this Vittentone is the miller's son whose cat
wore boots and made his fortune?'

'I have heard my aunt of Orleans divert my father with that story,' murmured Catherine.  'How
went the tale?  I thought it folly, and marked it not.  What became of the cat?'

'The cat desired to test his master's gratitude, so tells Straparola,' said the Duke of Orleans,
in his dry satirical tone; 'and whereas he had been wont to promise his benefactor a golden
coffin and state funeral, Puss feigned death, and thereby heard the lady inform her husband
that the old cat was dead.  "A la bonne heure!" said the Marquis.  "Take him by the tail, and
fling him on the muck-heap beneath the window!"'

'Thereof I acquit Whittington, who never was thankless to man or brute,' said King Henry. 
'Moreover, his cat, or her grandchildren, must be now in high preferment at the King of Barbary's
Court.'

'A marvellous beast is that cat,' said James.  'When I was a child in Scotland, we used to
tell the story of her exchange for a freight of gold and spices, only the ship sailed from
Denmark,'

'Maybe,' said Henry; 'but I would maintain the truth of Whittington's cat with my lance, and
would gladly have no worse cause!  You'll see his cat painted beside him in the Guild Hall,
and may hear the tale from him, as I loved to hear him when I was a lad.

   "Turn again, Whittington,
   Thrice Lord Mayor of London town!"

I told my good old friend I must have come over from France on purpose to keep his third mayoralty.
So I am for the City on Thursday; and whoever loves good wine, good sturgeon, good gold, or
good men, had best come with me.'

Such inducements were not to be neglected, and though Queen Catherine minced and bridled, and
apologized to Duchess Jaqueline for her husband's taste for low company, neither princess wished
to forego the chance of amusement; and a brilliant cavalcade set forth in full order of precedence.
The King and Queen were first; then, to his great disgust, the King of Scots, with Duchess
Jaqueline; Bedford, with Lady Somerset; Gloucester, with the Countess of March; the Duke of
Orleans, with the Countess of Exeter; and Malcolm of Glenuskie found himself paired off with
his sovereign's lady-love, Joan Beaufort, and a good deal overawed by the tall horned tower
that crowned her flaxen locks, as well as by knowing that her uncle, the Bishop of Winchester,
the stateliest, stiffest, and most unapproachable person in all the Court, was riding just
behind him, beside the Demoiselle de Luxemburg.

Temple Bar was closed, and there was a flourish of trumpets and a parley ere the gate was flung
open to admit the royal guests; but Malcolm, in his place, could not see the aldermen on horseback,
in their robes of scarlet and white, drawn up to receive the King.  All that way up Holborn,
every house was hung with tapestry, and the citizens formed a gorgeously-apparelled lane, shouting
in unison, their greetings attuned to bursts of music from trumpets and nakers.

Beautiful old St. Paul's, with the exquisite cross for open-air preaching in front, rose on
their view; and before the lofty west door the princely guests dismounted, each gentleman leading
his lady up the nave to the seat prepared in such manner that he might be opposite to her.
The clergy lined the stalls, and a magnificent mass was sung, and was concluded by the advance
of the King to the altar step, followed by a fine old man in scarlet robes bordered with white
fur, the collar of SS. round his neck, and his silvery hair and lofty brow crowning a face
as sagacious as it was dignified and benevolent.

It seemed a reversal of the ordinary ceremonial when the slender agile young man took in hand
the sword, and laid the honour of knighthood on the gray-headed substantial senior, whom he
bade to arise Sir Richard Whittington.  Jaqueline of Hainault had the bad taste to glance across
to Humfrey and titter, but the Duke valued popularity among the citizens, and would not catch
her eye; and in the line behind the royal ladies there was a sweet elderly face, beautiful,
though time-worn, with blue eyes misty with proud glad tears, and a mouth trembling with tender
exultation.

After the ceremony was concluded, King Henry offered his hand to the Lady Mayoress, Dame Alice
Whittington, making her bright tears drop in glad confusion at his frank, hearty congratulation
and warm praise of her husband; and though the fair Catherine could have shuddered when Sir
Richard advanced to lead her, she was too royal to compromise her dignity by visible scorn,
and she soon found that the merchant could speak much better French than most of the nobles.

Malcolm felt as averse as did the French princesses to burgher wealth and splendour, and his
mind had not opened to understand burgher worth and weight; and when he saw the princes John
and Humfrey, and even his own king, seeking out city dames and accosting them with friendly
looks, it seemed to him a degrading truckling to riches, from which he was anxious to save
his future queen; but when he would have offered his arm to Lady Joan, he saw her already being
led away by an alderman measuring at least a yard across the shoulders; and the good-natured
Earl of March, seeing him at a loss, presented him to a round merry wife in a scarlet petticoat
and black boddice, its plump curves wreathed with geld chains, who began pitying him for having
been sent to the wars so young, being, as usual, charmed into pity by his soft appealing eyes
and unconscious grace; would not believe his assertions that he was neither a captive nor a
Frenchman;--'don't tell her, when he spoke like a stranger, and halted from a wound.'

Colouring to the ears, he explained that he had never walked otherwise; whereupon her pity
redoubled, and she by turns advised him to consult Master Doctor Caius, and to obtain a recipe
from Mistress--she meant Dame--Alice Whittington, the kindest soul living, and, Lady Mayoress
as she was, with no more pride than the meanest scullion.  Pity she had no child--yet scarce
pity either, since she and the good Lord Mayor were father and mother to all orphans and destitute--nay,
to all who had any care on their minds.

Malcolm was in extreme alarm lest he should be walked up to the Lady Mayoress for inspection
before all the world when they entered the Guild Hall, a building of grand proportions, which,
as good Mistress Bolt informed him, had lately been paved and glazed at Sir Richard Whittington's
own expense.  The bright new red and yellow tiles, and the stained glass of the tall windows
high up, as well as the panels of the wainscot, were embellished with trade-marks and the armorial
bearings of the guilds; and the long tables, hung with snowy napery, groaned with gold and
silver plate, such as, the Duke of Orleans observed to Catherine, no citizens would dare exhibit
in France to any prince or noble, at peril of being mulcted of all, with or without excuse.

On an open hearth beneath the louvre, or opening for smoke, burnt a fire diffusing all around
an incense-like fragrance, from the logs, composed of cinnamon and other choice woods and spices,
that fed the flame.  The odour and the warmth on a bleak day of May were alike delicious; and
King Henry, after heading Dame Alice up to it, stood warming his hands and extolling the choice
scent, adding: 'You spoil us, Sir Richard.  How are we to go back to the smoke of wood and
peat, and fires puffed with our own mouths, after such pampering as this--the costliest fire
I have seen in the two realms?'

'It shall be choicer yet, Sir,' said Sir Richard Whittington, who had just handed the Queen
to her seat.

'Scarce possible,' replied Henry, 'unless I threw in my crown, and that I cannot afford.  I
shall be pawning it ere long.'

Instead of answering, the Lord Mayor quietly put his hand into his furred pouch, and drawing
out a bundle of parchments tied with a ribbon, held them towards the King, with a grave smile.

'Lo you now, Sir Richard,' said Henry, with a playful face of disgust; 'this is to save your
dainty meats, by spoiling my appetite by that unwelcome sight.  What, man! have you bought
up all the bonds I gave in my need to a whole synagogue of Jews and bench of Loin-bards?  I
shall have to send for my crown before you let me go; though verily,' he added, with frank,
open face, 'I'm better off with a good friend like you for my creditor--only I'm sorry for
you, Sir Richard.  I fear it will be long ere you see your good gold in the stead of your dirty
paper, even though I gave you an order on the tolls.  How now!  What, man, Dick Whittington!
Art raving?  Here, the tongs!'

For Sir Richard, gently smiling, had placed the bundle of bonds on the glowing bed of embers.

Henry, even while calling for the tongs, was raking them out with his sword, and would have
grasped them in his hand in a moment, but the Lord Mayor caught his arm.

'Pardon, my lord, and grant your new knight's boon.'

'When he is not moon-struck!' said Henry, still guarding the documents. 'Why, my Lady Mayoress,
know you what is here?'

'Sixty thousand, my liege,' composedly answered Dame Alice.  'My husband hath his whims, and
I pray your Grace not to hinder what he hath so long been preparing.'

'Yea, Sir,' added Whittington, earnestly.  'You wot that God hath prospered us richly.  We
have no child, and our nephews are well endowed. How, then, can our goods belong to any save
God, our king, and the poor?'

Henry drew one hand over his eyes, and with the other wrung that of Whittington.  'Had ever
king such a subject?' he murmured.

'Had ever subject such a king?' was Whittington's return.

'Thou hast conquered, Whittington,' said the King, presently looking up with a sunny smile.
'To send me over the seas a free man, beholden to you in heart though not by purse, is, as
I well believe, worth all that sum to thy loyal heart.  Thou art setting me far on my way to
Jerusalem, my dear friend!  Thank him, Kate--he hath done much for thine husband!'

Catherine looked amiable, and held out a white hand to be kissed, aware that the King was pleased,
though hardly understanding why he should be glad that an odour of singed parchment should
overpower the gums and cinnamon.  This was soon remedied by the fresh handful of spices that
were cast into the flame, and the banquet began, magnificent with peacocks, cranes, and swans
in full plumage; the tusky bear crunched his apple, deer's antlers adorned the haunch, the
royal sturgeon floated in wine, fountains of perfumed waters sprang up from shells, towers
of pastry and of jelly presented the endless allegorical devices of mediaeval fancy, and, pre-eminent
over all, a figure of the cat, with emerald eyes, fulfilled, as Henry said, the proverb, 'A
cat might look at a king;' and truly the cat and her master had earned the right; therefore
his first toast was, 'To the Cat!'

Each guest found at his or her place a beautiful fragrant pair of gloves, in Spanish leather,
on the back of which was once more embroidered, in all her tabby charms, the cat's face.  Therewith
began a lengthy meal; and Malcolm Stewart rejoiced at finding himself seated next to the Lady
Esclairmonde, but he grudged her attention to her companion, a slender, dark, thoughtful representative
of the Goldsmiths' Company, to whom she talked with courtesy such as Malcolm had scorned to
show his city dame.

'Who,' said Esclairmonde, presently, 'was a dame in a religious garb whom I marked near the
door here?  She hooked like one of the Beguines of my own country.'

'We have no such order here, lady,' said the goldsmiths, puzzled.

'Hey, Master Price,' cried Mistress Bolt, speaking across Malcolm, 'I can tell the lady who
it was.  'Twas good Sister Avice Rodney, to whom the Lady Mayoress promised some of these curious
cooling drinks for the poor shipwright who hath well-nigh cloven off his own foot with his axe.'

'Yea, truly,' returned the goldsmith; 'it must have been one of the bedeswomen of St. Katharine's
whom the lady has seen.'

'What order may that be?' asked Esclairmonde.  'I have seen nothing so like my own country
since I came hither.'

'That may well be, madam,' said Mistress Belt, 'seeing that these bedeswomen were first instituted
by a countrywoman of your own--Queen Philippa, of blessed memory.'

'By your leave, Mistress Bolt,' interposed Master Price, 'the hospital of St. Katharine by
the Tower is of far older foundation.'

'By your leave, sir, I know what I say.  The hospital was founded I know not when, but these
bedeswomen were especially added by the good Queen, by the same token that mine aunt Cis, who
was tirewoman to the blessed Lady Joan, was one of the first.'

'How was it?  What is their office?' eagerly inquired Esclairmonde.  And Mistress Bolt arranged
herself for a long discourse.

'Well, fair sirs and sweet lady, though you be younger than I, you have surely heard of the
Black Death.  Well named was it, for never was pestilence more dire; and the venom was so strong,
that the very lips and eyelids grew livid black, and then there was no hope.  Little thought
of such disease was there, I trow, in kings' houses, and all the fair young lords and ladies,
the children of King Edward, as then was, were full of sport and gamesomeness as you see these
dukes be now.  And never a one was blither than the Lady Joan--she they called Joan of the
Tower, being a true Londoner born--bless her!  My aunt Cis would talk by the hour of her pretty
ways and kindly mirth.  But 'twas even as the children have the game in the streets--

   "There come three knights all out of Spain,
   Are come to fetch your daughter Jane."

'Twas for the King of Castille, that same Peter for whom the Black Prince of Wales fought,
and of whom such grewsome tales were told.  The pretty princess might almost have had a boding
what sort of husband they had for her, for she begged and prayed, even on her knees, that her
father would leave her; but her sisters were all espoused, and there was no help for it.  But,
as one comfort to her, my aunt Cis, who had been about her from her cradle, was to go with
her; and oft she would tell of the long journey in litters through France, and how welcome
were the English tongues they heard again at Bordeaux, and how when poor Lady Joan saw her
brother, the Prince, she clung about his neck and sobbed, and how he soothed her, and said
she would soon laugh at her own unwillingness to go to her husband.  But even then the Black
Death was in Bordeaux, and being low and mournful at heart, the sweet maid contracted it, and
lay down to die ere she had made two days' journey, and her last words were, "My God hath shown
me more pity than father or brother;" and so she died like a lamb, and mine aunt was sent by
the Prince to bear home the tidings to the good Queen, who was a woeful woman.  And therewith,
here was the pestilence in London, raging among the poor creatures that lived in the wharves
and on the river bank, in damp and filth, so that whole households lay dead at once, and the
contagion, gathering force, spread into the city, and even to the nobles and their ladies.
Then my good aunt, having some knowledge of the sickness already, and being without fear, went
among the sick, and by her care, and the food, wine, and clothing she brought, saved a many
lives.  And from whom should the bounties come, save from the good Queen, who ever had a great
pity for those touched like her own fair child?  Moreover, when she heard from my aunt how
the poor things lived in uncleanness and filth, and how, what with many being strangers coming
by sea, and others being serfs fled from home, they were a nameless, masterless sort, who knew
not where to seek a parish priest, and whom the friars shunned for their poverty, she devised
a fresh foundation to be added to the hospital of St. Katharine's in the Docks, providing for
a chapter of ten bedeswomen, gentle and well-nurtured, who should both sing in choir, and likewise
go forth constantly among the poor, to seek out the children, see that they learn their Credo,
Ave, and Pater Noster, bring the more toward to be further taught in St. Katharine's school,
and likewise to stir poor folk up to go to mass and lead a godly life; to visit the sick, feed
and tend them, and so instruct them, that they may desire the Sacraments of the Church.'

'Ah! good Flemish Queen!' cried Esclairmonde.  'She learnt that of our Beguines!'

'If your ladyship will have it so,' said Mrs. Bolt; 'but my aunt Cicely began!'

'Who nominates these bedeswomen?' asked Esclairmonde.

'That does the Queen,' said Mistress Bolt.  'Not this young Queen, as yet, for Queen Joan,
the late King's widow, holds the hospital till her death, unless it should be taken from her
for her sorceries, from which Heaven defend us!'

'Can it be visited?' said Esclairmonde.  'I feel much drawn thither, as I ever did to the Beguines.'

'Ay, marry may it!' cried delighted Mrs. Bolt.  'I have more than one gossip there, foreby
Sister Avice, who was godchild to Aunt Cis; and if the good lady would wish to see the hospital,
I would bear her company with all my heart.'

To Malcolm's disgust, Esclairmonde caught at the proposal, which the Scottish haughtiness that
lay under all his gentleness held somewhat degrading to the cousin of the Emperor.  He fell
into a state of gloom, which lasted till the loving-cup had gone round and been partaken of
in pairs.

After hands had been washed in rose-water, the royal party took their seats in barges to return
to Westminster by the broad and beautiful highway of the Thames.

Here at once Alice Montagu nestled to Esclairmonde's side, delighted with her cat gloves, and
further delighted with an old captain of trained bands, to whose lot she had fallen, and who,
on finding that she was the daughter of the Earl of Salisbury, under whom he had served, had
launched forth by the hour into the praises of that brave nobleman, both for his courage and
his kindness to his troops.

'No wonder King Henry loves his citizens so well!' cried Esclairmonde. 'Would that our Netherlandish
princes and burghers could take pride and pleasure in one another's wealth and prowess, instead
of grudging and fearing thereat!'

'To my mind,' said Malcolm, 'they were a forward generation.  That city dame will burst with
pride, if you, lady, go with her to see those bedeswomen.'

'I trust not,' laughed Esclairmonde, 'for I mean to try.'

'Nay, but,' said Malcolm, 'what should a mere matter of old rockers and worn-out tirewomen
concern a demoiselle of birth?'

'I honour them for doing their Master's work,' said Esclairmonde, 'and would fain be worthy
to follow in their steps.'

'Surely,' said Malcolm, 'there are houses fit for persons of high and princely birth to live
apart from gross contact with the world.'

'There are,' said Esclairmonde; 'but I trust I may be pardoned for saying that such often seem
to me to play at humility when they stickle for birth and dower with the haughtiest.  I never
honoured any nuns so much as the humble Sisters of St. Begga, who never ask for sixteen quarterings,
but only for a tender hand, soft step, pure life, and pious heart.'

'I deemed,' said Malcolm, 'that heavenly contemplation was the purpose of convents.'

'Even so, for such as can contemplate like the holy man I have told you of,' said Esclairmonde;
'but labour hath been greatly laid aside in convents of late, and I doubt me if it be well,
or if their prayers be the better for it.'

'And so,' said Alice, 'I heard my Lord of Winchester saying how it were well to suppress the
alien priories, and give their wealth to found colleges like that founded by Bishop Wykeham.'

For in truths the spirit of the age was beginning to set against monasticism.  It was the period
when perhaps there was more of license and less of saintliness than at any other, and when
the long continuance of the Great Schism had so injured Church discipline that the clergy and
ecclesiastics were in the worst state of all, especially the monastic orders, who owned no
superior but the Pope, and between the two rivals could avoid supervision altogether.  Such
men as Thomas a Kempis, or the great Jean Gerson, were rare indeed; and the monasteries had
let themselves lose their missionary character, and become mere large farms, inhabited by celibate
gentlemen and their attendants, or by the superfluous daughters of the nobles and gentry. 
Such devotion as led Esclairmonde to the pure atmosphere of prayer and self-sacrifice had well-
nigh died out, and almost every other lady of the time would have regarded her release from
the vows made for her its her babyhood a happy escape.

Still less, at a time when no active order of Sisters, save that of the Beguines in Holland,
had been invented, and when no nun ever dreamt of carrying her charity beyond the quadrangle
of her own convent, could any one be expected to enter into Esclairmonde's admiration and longing
for out-of-door works; but the person whom she had chiefly made her friend was the King's almoner
and chaplain, sometimes called Sir Martin Bennet, at others Dr. Bennet, a great Oxford scholar,
bred up among William of Wykeham's original seventy at Winchester and New College, and now
much trusted and favoured by the King, whom he everywhere accompanied.  That Sir Martin was
a pluralist must be confessed, but he was most conscientious in providing substitutes, and
was a man of much thought and of great piety, in whom the fair pupil of the Canon of St. Agnes
found a congenial spirit.

CHAPTER VI: MALCOLM'S SUIT

'That is a gentle and gracious slip of the Stewart.  What shall you do with him?' asked King
Henry of James, as they stood together at one end of the tilt-yard at Westminster, watching
Malcolm Stewart and Ralf Percy, who were playing at closhey, the early form of nine-pins.

'I know what I should like to do,' said James.

'What may that be?'

'To marry him to the Lady Esclairmonde de Luxemburg.'

Henry gave a long whistle.

'Have you other views for her?'

'Not I!  Am I to have designs on every poor dove who flies into my tent from the hawk?  Besides,
are not they both of them vowed to a religious life?'

'Neither vow is valid,' replied James.

'To meddle with such things is what I should not dare,' said Henry.

'Monks and friars are no such holy beings, that I should greatly concern me about keeping an
innocent had out of their company,' said James.

'Nor do I say they are,' said Henry; 'but it is ill to cross a vow of devotion, and to bring
a man back to the world is apt to render him not worth the having.  You may perchance get him
down lower than you intended.'

'This boy never had any real vocation at all,' said James; 'it was only the timidity born of
ill-health, and the longing for food for the mind.'

'Maybe so,' replied the English king, 'and you may be in the right; but why fix on that grand
Luxemburg wench, who ought to be a Lady Abbess of Fontainebleau at least, or a very St. Hilda,
to rule monks and nuns alike?'

'Because they have fixed on each other.  Malcolm needs a woman like her to make a man of him;
and with her spirit and fervent charity, we should have them working a mighty change in Scotland.'

'If you get her there!'

'Have I your consent, Harry?'

'Mine?  It's no affair of mine!  You must settle it with Madame of Hainault; but you had best
take care.  You are more like to make your tame lambkin into a ravening wolf, than to get that
Deborah the prophetess to herd him.'

James in sooth viewed this warning as another touch of Lancastrian superstition, and only considered
how to broach the question.  Malcolm, meantime, was balancing between the now approaching decision
between Oxford and France.  He certainly felt something of his old horror of warlike scenes;
but even this was lessening; he was aware that battles were not every-day occurrences, and
that often there was no danger at all.  He would not willingly be separated from his king;
and if the female part of the Court were to accompany the campaign, it would be losing sight
of all he cared for, if he were left among a set of stranger shavelings at Oxford.  Yet he
was reluctant to break with the old habits that had hitherto been part of his nature; he felt,
after every word of Esclairmonde--nay, after every glance towards her--as though it were a
blessed thing to have, like her, chosen the better part; he knew she would approve his resort
to the home of piety and learning; he was aware that when with Ralf Percy and the other youths
of the Court he was ashamed of his own scrupulousness, and tempted to neglect observances that
they might call monkish and unmanly; and he was not at all sure that in face of the enemy a
panic might not seize him and disgrace him for ever!  In effect he did not know what he wished,
even when he found that the Queen had decided against going across the sea, and that therefore
all the ladies would remain with her at Shene or Windsor.

He should probably never again see Esclairmonde, the guiding star of his recent life, the embodiment
of all that he had imagined when conning the quaint old English poems that told the Legend
of Seynct Katharine; and as he leant musingly against a lattice, feeling as if the brightness
of his life was going out, King James merrily addressed him:--

'Eh! the fit is on you too, boy!'

'What fit, Sir?'  Malcolm opened his eyes.

'The pleasing madness.'

Malcolm uttered a cry like horror, and reddened crimson.  'Sir!  Sir! Sir!' he stammered.

'A well-known token of the disease is raving.'

'Sir, Sir!  I implore you to speak of nothing so profane.'

'I am not given to profanity,' said James, endeavouring to look severe, but with laughter in
his voice.  'Methought you were not yet so sacred a personage.'

'Myself!  No; but that I--I should dare to have such thoughts of--oh, Sir!' and Malcolm covered
his face with his hands.  'Oh, that you should have so mistaken me!'

'I have not mistaken you,' said James, fixing his keen eyes on him.

'Oh, Sir!' cried Malcolm, like one freshly stung, 'you have!  Never, never dreamt I of aught
but worshipping as a living saint, as I would entreat St. Margaret or--'

There was still the King's steady look and the suppressed smile.  Malcolm broke off, and with
a sudden agony wrung his hands together.  The King still smiled.  'Ay, Malcolm, it will not
do; you are man, not monk.'

'But why be so cruel as to make me vile in my own eyes?' almost sobbed Malcolm.

'Because,' said the King, 'she is not a saint in heaven, nor a nun in a convent, but a free
woman, to be won by the youth she has marked out.'

'Marked!  Oh, Sir, she only condescended because she knew my destination.'

'That is well,' said King James.  'Thus sparks kindle at unawares.'

Malcolm's groan and murmur of 'Never!' made James almost laugh at the evidence that on one
side at least the touch-wood was ready.

'Oh, Sir,' he sighed, 'why put the thought before me, to make me wretched!  Even were she for
the world, she would never be for me. I--doited--hirpling--'

'Peace, silly lad; all that is past and gone.  You are quite another now, and a year or two
of Harry's school of chivalry will send you home a gallant knight and minstrel, such as no
maiden will despise.'

The King went, and Malcolm fell into a silent state of musing.  He was entirely overpowered,
both by the consciousness awakened within himself, by the doubt whether it were not a great
sin, and by the strangeness that the King, hitherto his oracle, should infuse such a hope.
What King James deemed possible could never be so incredible, or even sacrilegious, as he deemed
it.  Restless, ashamed, rent by a thousand conflicting feelings, Malcolm roamed up and down
his chamber, writhed, tried to sit and think, then, finding his thoughts in a whirl, renewed
his frantic pacings.  And when dire necessity brought him again into the ladies' chamber, he
was silent, blushing, ungainly, abstracted, and retreated into the farthest possible corner
from the unconscious Esclairmonde.

Then, when again alone with the King, he began with the assertion, 'It is utterly impossible,
Sir;' and James smiled to see his poison working.  Not that he viewed it as poison.  Monasticism
was at a discount, and the ranks of the religious orders were chiefly filled, the old Benedictine
and Augustinian foundations by gentlemen of good family who wanted the easy life of a sort
of bachelor squire, and the friaries were recruited by the sort of men who would in modern
times be dissenting teachers of the lower stamp.  James was persuaded that Malcolm was fit
for better things than were usually to be seen in a convent, and that it was a real kindness
not to let him merely retire thither out of faintness of heart, mistaken for devotion; and
he also felt as if he should be doing good service, not only to Malcolm, but to Scotland, if
he could obtain for him a wife of the grand character of Esclairmonde de Luxemburg.

He even risked the mention of the project to the Countess of Hainault, without whose consent
nothing could be effected.  Jaqueline laughed long and loud at the notion of her stately Esclairmonde
being the lady-love of King James's little white-visaged cousin; but if he could bring it about
she had no objection, she should be very glad that the demoiselle should come down from the
height and be like other people; but she would wager the King of Scots her emerald carcanet
against his heron's plume, that Esclairmonde would never marry unless her hands were held for
her.  Was she not at that very moment visiting some foundation of bedeswomen--that was all
she heard of at yonder feast of cats!

In fact, under Dr. Bennet's escort, Esclairmonde and Alice were in a barge dropping down the
Thames to the neighbourhood of the frowning fortress of the Tower--as yet unstained; and at
the steps leading to the Hospitium of St. Katharine the ladies were met, not only by their
friend Mrs. Bolt, but by Sir Richard Whittington, his kindly dame, and by 'Master William Kedbesby,'
a grave and gentle-looking old man, who had been Master of St. Katharine's ever since the first
year of King Richard II., and delighted to tell of the visits 'Good Queen Anne' of Bohemia
had made to her hospital, and the kind words she had said to the old alms- folk and the children
of the schools; and when he heard that the Lady Esclairmonde was of the same princely house
of Luxemburg, he seemed to think no honour sufficient for her.  They visited the two houses,
one for old men, the other for old women, each with a common apartment, with a fire, and a
dining-table in the midst, and sleeping cells screened off round it, and with a paved terrace
walk overhanging the river, where the old people could sit and sun themselves, and be amused
by the gay barges and the swans that expatiated there.  The bedeswomen, ten in number, had
a house arranged like an ordinary nunnery, except that they were not in seclusion, had no grating,
and shared the quadrangle with the alms-folk and children.  They were gentle and well-nurtured
women, chiefly belonging to the city and country families that furnished servants to the queens;
and they applied themselves to various offices of charity, going forth into the city to tend
the poor, and to teach the women and children.  The appointments of alms-folk and admissions
to the school were chiefly made at their recommendation; and though a master taught all the
book-learning in the busy hive of scholars--eighty in number--one or more of them instructed
the little girls in spinning and in stitchery, to say nothing of gentle and modest demeanour.
There was a great look of happiness and good order about all; and the church, fair and graceful,
seemed well to complete and rule the institution.  Esclairmonde could but sigh with a sort
of regret as she left it, and let herself be conducted by Sir Richard Whittington to a refection
at his beautiful house in Crutched Friars, built round a square, combining warehouse and manor-house;
richly-carved shields, with the arms of the companies of London, supporting the tier of first-floor
windows, and another row of brackets above supporting another overhanging story.  A fountain
was in the centre of a beautiful greensward, with beds of roses, pansies, pinks, stars of Bethlehem,
and other good old flowers, among which a monkey was chained to a tree, while a cat roamed
about at a safe distance from him.

Alice Montagu raised a laugh by asking if it were the cat; to which her city namesake replied
that 'her master' never could abide to be without a cat in memory of his first friend, and
marshalled them into the beautiful hall, with wainscot lining below, surmounted by an arcade
containing statues, and above a beautiful carved ceiling.  Here a meal was served to them,
and the Lady talked with Whittington of the grand town-halls and other buildings of the merchants
of the Low Countries, with whom he was a trader for their rich stuffs; and the visit passed
off with no small satisfaction to both parties.

Esclairmonde sat in the barge on her return, looking out on the gray clear water, and on the
bright gardens that sloped down to it, gay with roses and fruitful with mulberries, apples,
and strawberries, and the mansions and churches that were never quite out of sight, though
there were some open fields and wild country ere coming to Westminster, all as if she did not
see them, but was wrapped in deep contemplation.

Alice at last, weary of silence, stole her arm round her waist, and peeped up into her face.
'May I guess thy thoughts, sweet Clairette? Thou wilt found such a hospice thyself?'

'Say not I will, child,' said Esclairmonde, with a crystal drop starting in each dark eye.
'I would strive and hope, but--'

'Ah! thou wilt, thou wilt,' cried Alice; 'and since there are Beguines enough for their own
Netherlands, thou wilt come to England and be our foundress here.'

'Nay, little one; here are the bedeswomen of St. Katharine's in London.'

'Ah! but we have other cities.  Good Father, have we not? Hull--Southampton--oh! so many, where
poor strangers come that need ghostly tendance as well as bodily.  Esclairmonde--Light of the
World--oh! it was not for nothing that they gave thee that goodly name.  The hospice shall
bear it!'

'Hush, hush! sweet pyet; mine own name is what they must not bear.'

'Ah! but the people will give it; and our Holy Father the Pope, he will put thee into the canon
of saints.  Only pity that I cannot live to hear of Ste. Esclairmonde--nay, but then I must
overlive thee, mind I should not love that.'

'Oh, silence, silence, child; these are no thoughts to begin a work with. Little flatterer,
it may be well for me that our lives must needs lie so far apart that I shall not oft hear
that fond silly tongue.'

'Nay,' said Alice, in the luxury, not of castle-building but of convent- building; 'it may
be that when that knight over there sees me so small and ill-favoured he will none of me, and
then I'll thank him so, and pray my father to let him have all my lands and houses except just
enough to dower me to follow thee with, dear Lady Prioress.'

But here Alice was summarily silenced.  Such talk, both priest and votaress told her, was not
meet for dutiful daughter or betrothed maiden. Her lot was fixed, and she must do her duty
therein as the good wife and lady of the castle, the noble English matron; and as she looked
half disposed to pout, Esclairmonde drew such a picture of the beneficent influence of the
good baronial dame, ruling her castle, bringing up her children and the daughters of her vassals
in good and pious nurture, making 'the heart of her husband safely trust in her,' benefiting
the poor, and fostering holy men, wayfarers, and pilgrims, that the girl's eyes filled within
tears as she looked up and said, 'Ah! lady, this is the life fitted for thee, who can paint
it so well.  Why have I not a brother, that you might be Countess of Salisbury, and I a poor
little sister in a nunnery?'

Esclairmonde shook her head.  'Silly child, petite niaise, our lots were fixed by other hands
than ours.  We will strive each to serve our God, in the coif or in the veil, in samite or
in serge, and He will only ask which of us has been most faithful, not whether we have lived
in castle or in cloister.'

Little had Esclairmonde expected to hear the greeting with which the Countess received her,
breaking out into peals of merriment as she told her of the choice destiny in store for her,
to be wedded to the little lame Scot, pretending to read her a grave lecture on the consequences
of the advances she had made to him.

Esclairmonde was not put out of countenance; in fact, she did not think the Countess in earnest,
and merely replied with a smile that at least there was less harm in Lord Malcolm than in the
suitors at home.

Jaqueline clapped her hands and cried, 'Good tidings, Clairette.  I'll never forgive you if
you make me lose my emerald carcanet!  So the arrow was winged, after all.  She prefers him--her
heart is touched by the dainty step.'

'Madame!' entreated Esclairmonde, with agitation; 'at least, infirmity should be spared.'

'It touches her deeply!' exclaimed the Duchess.  'Ah! to see her in the mountains teaching
the wild men to say their Aye, and to wear culottes, the little prince interpreting for her,
as King James told us in his story of the saint his ancestor.'

Raillery about Malcolm had been attempted before, but never so pertinaciously; and Esclairmonde
heeded it not at all, till James himself sought her out, and, within all his own persuasive
grace, told her that he was rejoiced to hear from Madame of Hainault that she had spoken kindly
of his youthful kinsman, for whose improvement he was sure he had in great measure to thank her.

Esclairmonde replied composedly, but as one on her guard, that the Sieur de Glenuskie was a
gentle and a holy youth, of a good and toward wit.

'As I saw from the first,' said James, 'when I brought him away from being crushed among our
rude cousins; but, lady, I knew not how the task of training the boy would be taken out of
my hands by your kindness; and now, pardon me, lady, only one thing is wanting to complete
your work, and that is hope.'

'Hope is always before a holy man, Sir.'

'O, madame! but we peer earthly beings require an earthly hope, nearer home, to brace our hearts,
and nerve our arms.'

'I thought the Sieur de Glenuskie was destined to a religious life.'

'Never by any save his enemies, lady.  The Regent Albany and his fierce sons have striven to
scare Malcolm into a cloister, that his sister and his lands may be their prey; and they would
have succeeded had not I come to Scotland in time.  The lad never had any true vocation.'

'That may be,' said Esclairmonde, somewhat sorrowfully.

'Still,' added James, 'he is of a thoughtful and somewhat tender mould, and the rudeness of
life will try him sorely unless he have some cheering star, some light of love, to bear him
up and guide him on his way.'

'If so, may he find a worthy one.'

'Lady, it is too late to talk of what he may find.  The brightness that has done so much for
him already will hinder him from turning his eyes elsewhere.'

'You are a minstrel, Sir King, and therefore these words of light romance fall from your lips.'

'Nay, lady, hitherto my romance has been earnest.  It rests with you to make Malcolm's the same.'

'Not so, Sir.  That has long been out of my hands.'

'Madame, you might well shrink from what it was as insult to you to propose; but have you never
thought of the blessings you might confer in the secular life, with one who would be no hindrance,
but a help?'

'No, Sir, for no blessings, but curses, would follow a breach of dedication.'

'Lady, I will not press you with what divines have decided respecting such dedication.  Any
scruples could be removed by the Holy Father at Rome, and, though I will speak no further,
I will trust to your considering the matter.  You have never viewed it in any light save that
of a refuge from wedlock with one to whom I trust you would prefer my gentle cousin.'

'It were a poor compliment to Lord Malcolm to name him in the same day with Sir Boemond of
Burgundy,' said Esclairmonde; 'but, as I said, it is not the person that withholds me, but
the fact that I am not free.'

'I do not ask you to love or accept the poor boy as yet,' said James; 'I leave that for the
time when I shall bring him back to you, with the qualities grown which you have awakened.
At least, I can bear him the tidings that it is not your feelings, but your scruples that are
against him.'

'Sir King,' said Esclairmonde, gravely, 'I question not your judgment in turning your kinsman
and subject to the secular life; but if you lead him by false hopes, of which I am the object,
I tell you plainly that you are deluding him; and if any evil come thereof, be it on your own
head.'

She moved away, with a bend of her graceful neck, and James stood with a slight smile curving
his lip.  'By my troth,' he said to himself, 'a lordly lady!  She knows her own vocation. 
She is one to command scores of holy maids, and have all the abbots and priors round at her
beck, instead of one poor man.  Rather Malcolm than I!  But he is the very stuff that loves
to have such a woman to rule him; and if she wed at all, he is the very man for her!  I'll
not give it up!  Love is the way to make a man of him, whether successful or not, and she may
change her mind, since she is not yet on the roll of saints.  If I could get a word with her
father confessor, and show him how much it would be for the interest of the Church in Scotland
to get such a woman there, it would be the surest way of coming at her.  Were she once in Scotland,
my pretty one would have a stay and helper!  But all must rest till after the campaign.'

James therefore told Malcolm so much as that he had spoken to his lady- love for him, and that
she had avowed that it was not himself, but her own vows, that was the obstacle.

Malcolm crimsoned with joy as well as confusion; and the King proceeded: 'For the vows'--he
shrugged his shoulders--'we knew there is a remedy! Meantime, Malcolm, be you a man, win your
spurs, and show yourself worth overcoming something for!'

Malcolm smiled and brightened, holding his head high and joyously, and handling his sword.
Then came the misgiving--'But Lilias, Sir, and Patrick Drummond.'

'We will provide for them, boy.  You know Drummond is bent on carving his own fortune rather
than taking yours, and that your sister only longs to see you a gallant knight.'

It was true, but Malcolm sighed.

'You have not spoken to the lady yourself?' asked the King.

'No, Sir.  Oh, how can I?' faltered Malcolm, shamefaced and frightened.

James laughed.  'Let that be as the mood takes you, or occasion serves,' he said, wondering
whether the lad's almost abject awkwardness and shame would be likely to create the pity akin
to love or to contempt, and deciding that it must be left to chance.

Nor did Malcolm find boldness enough to do more than haunt Esclairmonde's steps, trembling
if she glanced towards him, and almost shrinking from her gaze.  He had now no doubts about
going on the campaign, and was in full course of being prepared with equipments, horses, armour,
and attendants, as became a young prince attending on his sovereign as an adventurer in the
camp.  It was not even worth while to name such scruples to the English friar who shrived him
on the last day before the departure, and who knew nothing of his past history.  He knew all
priests would say the same things, and as he had never made a binding vow, he saw no need of
consulting any one on the subject; it would only vex him again, and fill him with doubts. 
The suspicion that Dr. Bennet was aware of his previous intention made him shrink from him.
So the last day had come, and all was farewell.  King Henry had persuaded the Queen to seclude
herself for one evening from Madame of Hainault, for his sake. King James was pacing the gardens
on the Thames banks, with Joan Beaufort's hand for once allowed to repose in his; many a noble
gentleman was exchanging last words with his wife--many a young squire whispering what he had
never ventured to say before--many a silver mark was cloven--many a bright tress was exchanged.
Even Ralf Percy was in the midst of something very like a romp with the handsome Bessie Nevil
for a knot of ribbon to carry to the wars.

Malcolm felt a certain exaltation in being enough like other people to have a lady-love, but
there was not much comfort otherwise; indeed, he could so little have addressed Esclairmonde
that it was almost a satisfaction that she was the centre of a group of maidens whose lovers
or brothers either had been sent off beforehand, or who saw their attentions paid elsewhere,
and who all alike gravitated towards the Demoiselle de Luxemburg for sympathy.  He could but
hover on the outskirts, conscious that he must cut a ridiculous figure, but unable to detach
himself from the neighbourhood of the magnet.  As he looked back on the happy weeks of unconstrained
intercourse, when he came to her as freely as did these young girls with all his troubles,
he felt as if the King had destroyed all his joy and peace, and yet that these flutterings
of heart and agonies of shame and fits of despair were worth all that childish calm.

He durst say nothing, only now and then to gaze on her with his great brown wistful eyes, which
he dropped whenever she looked towards him; until at last, when the summer evening was closing
in, and the last signal was given for the break-up of the party, Malcolm ventured on one faltering
murmur, 'Lady, lady, you are not offended with me?'

'Nay,' said Esclairmonde, kindly; 'nothing has passed between us that should offend me.'

His eye lighted.  'May I still be remembered in your prayers, lady?'

'As I shall remember all who have been my friends here,' she said.

'And oh, lady, if I should--should win honour, may I lay it at your feet?'

'Whatever you achieve as a good man and true will gladden me,' said Esclairmonde, 'as it will
all others that wish you well.  Both you and your sister in her loneliness shall have my best
prayers.  Farewell, Lord Malcolm; may the Saints bless and guard you, whether in the world
or the Church.'

Malcolm knew why she spoke of his sister, and felt as if there were no hope for him.  Esclairmonde's
grave kindness was a far worse sign than would have been any attempt to evade him; but at any
rate she had spoken with him, and his heart could not but be cheered.  What might he not do
in the glorious future?  As the foremost champion of a crusading king, bearing St. Andrew's
cross through the very gates of Jerusalem, what maiden, however saintly, could refuse him his
guerdon?

And he knew that, for the present, Esclairmonde was safe from retiring into any convent, since
her high birth and great possessions would make any such establishment expect a large dower
with her as a right, and few abbesses would have ventured to receive a runaway foreigner, especially
as one of her guardians was the Bishop of Therouenne.

CHAPTER VII: THE SIEGE OF MEAUX

Wintry winds and rains were sweeping over the English tents on the banks of the Marne, where
Henry V. was besieging Meaux, then the stronghold of one of those terrible freebooters who
were always the offspring of a lengthened war.  Jean de Gast, usually known as the Bastard
de Vaurus, nominally was of the Armagnac or patriotic party, but, in fact, pillaged indiscriminately,
especially capturing travellers on their way to Paris, and setting on their heads a heavy price,
failing which he hung them upon the great elm-tree in the market-place.  The very suburbs of
Paris were infested by the forays of this desperate routier, as such highway robbers were called;
the supplies of previsions were cut off, and the citizens had petitioned King Henry that he
would relieve them from so intolerable an enemy.

The King intended to spend the winter months with his queen in England, and at once attacked
the place in October, hoping to carry it by a coup de main.  He took the lower city, containing
the market-place and several large convents, with no great difficulty; but the upper city,
on a rising ground above the river, was strongly fortified, well victualled, and bravely defended,
and he found himself forced to invest it, and make a regular siege, though at the expense of
severe toil and much sickness and suffering.  Both his own prestige in France and the welfare
of the capital depended on his success, and he had therefore fixed himself before Meaux to
take it at whatever cost.

The greater part of the army were here encamped, together with the chief nobles, March, Somerset,
Salisbury, Warwick, and likewise the King of Scots.  James had for a time had the command of
the army which besieged and took Dreux while Henry was elsewhere engaged, but in general he
acted as a sort of volunteer aide-de-camp to his brother king, and Malcolm Stewart of Glenuskie
was always with him as his squire.  A great change had come over Malcolm in these last few
months.  His feeble, sickly boyhood seemed to have been entirely cast off, and the warm genial
summer sun of France to have strengthened his frame and developed his powers.  He had shot
up suddenly to a fair height, had almost lost his lameness, and gained much more appearance
of health and power of enduring fatigue.  His nerves had become less painfully sensitive, and
when after his first skirmish, during which he had kept close to King James, far too much terrified
to stir an inch from him, he had not only found himself perfectly safe, but had been much praised
for his valour, he had been so much pleased with himself that he quite wished for another occasion
of displaying his bravery; and, what with use, and what with the increasing spirit of pugnacity,
he was as sincere as Ralf Percy in abusing the French for never coming to a pitched battle.
Perhaps, indeed, Malcolm spoke even more eagerly than Ralf, in his own surprise and gratification
at finding himself no coward, and his fear lest Percy should detect that he ever had been supposed
to be such.

So far the King of Scots had succeeded in awakening martial fire in the boy, but he found him
less the companion in other matters than he had intended.  When at Paris, James would have
taken him to explore the learned hoards of the already venerable University of Paris, where
young James Kennedy--son to Sir James Kennedy of Dunure, and to Mary, an elder sister of the
King--was studying with exceeding zeal.  Both James and Dr. Bennet were greatly interested
in this famous abode of hearing--the King, indeed, was already sketching out designs in his
own mind for a similar institution in Scotland, designs that were destined to be carried out
after his death by Kennedy; and Malcolm perforce heard many inquiries and replies, but he held
aloof from friendship with his clerkly cousin Kennedy, and closed his ears as much as might
be, hanging back as if afraid of returning to his books.  There was in this some real dread
of Ralf Percy's mockery of his clerkliness, but there was more real distaste for all that appertained
to the past days that he now despised.

The tide of vitality and physical vigour, so long deficient, had, whom it had fairly set in,
carried him away with it: and in the activity of body newly acquired, mental activity had well-nigh
ceased.  And therewith went much of the tenderness of conscience and devout habits of old.
They dropped from him, sometimes for lack of time, sometimes from false shame, and by and by
from very weariness and distaste.  He was soldier now, and not monk--ay, and even the observances
that such soldiers as Henry and James never failed in, and always enforced, were becoming a
burthen to him.  They wakened misgivings that he did not like, and that must wait till his
next general shrift.

And Esclairmonde?  Out of her sight, Malcolm dreamt a good deal about her, but more as the
woman, less as the saint; and the hopes, so low in her presence, burnt brighter in her absence
as Malcolm grew in self-confidence and in knowledge of the world.  He knew that when he parted
with her he had been a miserable little wretch whom any woman would despise, yet she had shown
him a sort of preference; how would it be when he returned to her, perhaps a knight, certainly
a brave man like other men!

Of Patrick Drummond he had as yet heard nothing, and only believed him to be among the Scots
who fought on the French side under the Earls of Buchan and Douglas.  Indeed, James especially
avoided places where he knew these Scots to be engaged, as Henry persisted in regarding them
as rebels against him, and in hanging all who were made prisoners; nor had Malcolm, during
the courtesies that always pass between the outposts of civilized armies, made much attempt
to have any communication with his cousin, for though his own abnegation of his rights had
never been permitted by his guardian, or reckoned on by his sister or her lover, still he had
been so much in earnest about it himself, as, while regarding it as a childish folly, to feel
ill at ease in the remembrance, and, though defiant, willing to avoid all that could recall it.

Meantime he, with his king, was lodged in a large old convent, as part of the immediate following
of King Henry.  Others of the princes and nobles were quartered in the market hall and lower
town, but great part of thine troops were in tents, and in a state of much discomfort, owing
to the overflowings of the Marne.  Fighting was the least of their dangers, though their skirmishes
were often fought ankle-deep in mud and mire; fever and ague were among them, and many a sick
man was sent away to recover or die at Paris.  The long dark evenings were a new trial to men
used to summer campaigning, and nothing but Henry's wonderful personal influence and perpetual
vigilance kept up discipline.  At any hour of the day or night, at any place in the camp, the
King might be at hand, with a cheery word of sympathy or encouragement, or with the most unflinching
sternness towards any disobedience or debauchery--ever a presence to be either loved or dreaded.
An engineer in advance of his time, he was persuaded that much of the discomfort might be remedied
by trenching the ground around the camp; but this measure proved wonderfully distasteful to
the soldiery.  How hard they laboured in the direct siege operations they cared not, but to
be set to drain French fields seemed to them absurd and unreasonable, and the work would not
have proceeded at all without constant superintendence from one of the chiefs of the army,
since the ordinary knights and squires were as obstinately prejudiced as were the men.

Thus it was that, on a cold sleety December day, James of Scotland rode along the meadows,
splashing through thin ice into muddy water, and attended by his small personal suite, excepting
Sir Nigel Baird, who was gone on a special commission to Paris.  Both he and Malcolm were plainly
and lightly armed, and wore long blue cloaks with the St. Andrew's cross on the shoulder, steel
caps without visors, and the King's merely distinguished by a thread-hike circlet of gold.
They had breastplates, swords, and daggers, but they were not going to a quarter where fighting
was to be expected, and bright armour was not to be exposed to rust without need.  A visit
of inspection to the delvers was not a congenial occupation, for though the men-at-arms had
obeyed James fairly well when he was in sole command at Dreux, yet whenever he was obliged
to enforce anything unpopular, the national dislike to the Scot was apt to show itself, and
the whole army was at present in a depressed condition which made such manifestations the more
probable.

But King Henry was not half recovered from a heavy feverish cold, which he had not confessed
or attended to, and he had also of late been troubled with a swelling of the neck.  This morning,
too, much to his inconvenience and dismay, he had missed his signet-ring.  The private seal
on such a ring was of more importance than the autograph at that time, and it would never have
left the King's hand; but no doubt, in consequence of his indisposition, his finger, always
small-boned, had become thin enough to allow the signet to escape unawares, he was unwilling
to publish the loss, as it might cast doubt on the papers he despatched, and he, with his chamberlain
Fitzhugh, King James, Malcolm, Percy, and a few more, had spent half the morning in the vain
search, ending by the King sending his chamberlain, Lord Fitzhugh, to carry to Paris a seal
already bearing his shield, but lacking the small private mark that authenticated it as his
signet.  Fitzhugh would stand over the lapidary and see this added, and bring it back.  Ralf
Percy had meantime been sent to bring a report of the diggers, but he was long in returning;
and when Henry became uneasy, James had volunteered to go himself, and Henry had consented,
not because the air was full of sleety rain or snow, but because his hands were full of letters
needing to be despatched to all quarters.

The air was so thick that it was not easy to see where were the sullen group of diggers presided
over by the quondam duellists of Thirsk, Kitson and Trenton, now the most inseparable and impracticable
of men; but James and his companions had ridden about two miles from the market-place, when
Ralf Percy came out of the mist, exclaiming, 'Is it you, Sir King?  Maybe you can do something
with those rascals!  I've talked myself blue with cold to make them slope the sides of their
dyke, but the owl Kitson says no Yorkshireman ditcher ever went but by one fashion, and none
ever shall; and when I lifted my riding-rod at the most insolent of the rogues, what must Trenton
do but tell me the lot were free yeomen, and I'd best look out, or they'd roll me in the mire
if I meddled with a soul of them.'

'You didn't threaten to strike Trenton?'

'No, no; the sullen cur is a gentleman.  'Twas one of those lubberly men- at-arms!  I told
them they should hear what King Harry would say to their mood.  I would it were he!'

'So would I,' said James.  'Little chance that they will hearken to a Scot when you have put
them in such a mood.  Hold, Ralf, do not go for the King; he has letters for the Emperor mattering
more than this dyke.'

He rode on, and did his best by leaping into the ditch, taking the spade, and showing the superior
security of the angle of inclination traced by the King, but all in vain; both Trenton and
Kitson silently but obstinately scouted the notion that any king should know more about ditches
than themselves.

'See,' cried Percy, starting up, 'here's other work!  The fellows, whence came they?'

Favoured by the fog and the soft soil of the meadows, a considerable body of the enemy were
stealing on the delvers with the manifest purpose of cutting them off from the camp.  They
were all mounted, but the only horses in the English party were those of James, Percy, Malcolm,
and the half-dozen men of his escort.  James, assuming the command at once, bade these to be
all released; they would be sure to find their way to the camp, and that would bring succour.
Meantime he drew the whole of the men, about thirty in number, into a compact body.  They were,
properly, archers, but their bows had been left behind, and they had only their pikes and bills,
which were, however, very formidable weapons against cavalry as long as they continued in an
unbroken rank; and though the bogs, pools, sunken hedges, and submerged stumps made it difficult
to keep close together as they made their way slowly with one flank to the river, these obstacles
were no small protection against a charge of horsemen.

For a quarter of a mile these tactics kept them unharmed, but at length they reached a wide
smooth meadow, and the enemy seemed preparing to charge.  James gave orders to close up and
stand firm, pikes outwards. Malcolm's heart beat fast; it was the most real peril he had yet
seen; and yet he was cheered by the King's ringing voice, 'Stand firm, ye merry men.  They
must soon be with us from the camp.'

Suddenly a voice shouted, 'The Scots! the Scots!  'Tis the Scots! Treachery! we are betrayed.
Come, Sir' (to Percy), 'they'll be on you. Treason!'

'An' it were, you fool, would a Percy turn his back?' cried Ralf, striking at the man; but
the panic had seized the whole body; all were shouting that the false Scots king had brought
his countrymen down on them; they scattered hither and thither, and would have fallen an easy
prey if they had been pursued.  But this did not seem to be the purpose of the enemy, who merely
extended themselves so as to form a hedge around the few who stood, sword in hand, disdaining
to fly.  These were, James, somewhat in advance, with his head high, and a lion look on his
brow; Malcolm, white with dismay; Ralf, restless with fury; Kitson and Trenton, apparently
as unmoved as ever; Brewster, equally steady: and Malcolm's follower, Halbert, in a glow of
hopeful excitement.

'Never fear, friends,' said James, kindly; 'to you this can only be matter of ransom.'

'I fear nothing,' sharply answered Ralf.

'We'll stand by you, Sir,' said Kitson to Ralf; 'but if ever there were foul treason--'

'Pshaw! you ass,' were all Percy's thanks; for at that moment a horseman came forward from
among the enemy, a gigantic form on a tall white horse, altogether a 'dark gray man,' the open
visor revealing an elderly face, hard-featured and grim, and the shield on his arm so dinted,
faded, and battered, as scarce to show the blue chief and the bleeding crowned heart; but it
was no unfamiliar sight to Malcolm's eyes, and with a slight shudder he bent his head in answer
to the fierce whisper, 'Old Douglas himself!' with which Hotspur's son certified himself that
he had the foe of his house before him.  King James, resting the point of his sword on his
mailed foot, stood erect and gravely expectant; and the Scot, springing to the ground, advanced
with the words, 'We greet you well, my liege, and hereby--' he was bending his knee as he spoke,
and removing his gauntlet in preparation for the act of homage.

'Hold, Earl Douglas,' said James, 'homage is vain to a captive.'

'You are captive no longer, Sir King,' said Earl Archibald.  'We have long awaited this occasion,
and will at once return to Scotland with you, with the arms and treasure we have gained here,
and will bear down the craven Albany.'

Kitson and Trenton looked at one another and grasped their swords, as though doubting whether
they ought not to cut down their king's prisoner rather than let him be rescued; and meanwhile
the cry, 'Save King James!' broke out on all sides, knights leapt down to tender their homage,
and among the foremost Malcolm knew Sir Patrick Drummond, crying aloud, 'My lord, my lord,
we have waited long for you.  Be a free king in free Scotland!  Trust us, my liege.'

'Trust you, my friends!' said James, deeply touched; 'I trust you with all my heart; but how
could you trust me if I began with a breach of faith to the King of England?'

Ralf Percy held up his finger and nodded his head to the Yorkshire squires, who stood open-mouthed,
still believing that a Scot must be false.  There was an angry murmur among the Scots, but
James gazed at them undauntedly, as though to look it down.

'Yes, to King Harry!' he said, in his trumpet voice.  'I belong to him, and he has trusted
me as never prisoner was trusted before, nor will I betray that trust.'

'The foul fiend take such niceties,' muttered old Douglas; but, checking himself, he said,
'Then, Sir, give me your sword, and we'll have you home as my prisoner, to save this your honour!'

'Yea,' said James, 'that is mine own, though my body be yours, and till England put me to ransom
you would have but a useless captive.'

'Sir,' said Sir John Swinton, pressing forward, 'if my Lord of Douglas be plain-spoken, bethink
you that it is no cause for casting aside this one hope of freedom that we have sought so long.
If you have the heart to strike for Scotland, this is the time.'

'It is not the time,' said James, 'nor will I do Scotland the wrong of striking for her with
a dishonoured hand.'

'That will we see when we have him at Hermitage Castle,' quoth Douglas to his followers.  'Now,
Sir King, best give your sword without more grimace.  Living or dead you are ours.'

'I yield not,' said James.  'Dead you may take me--alive, never.'  Then turning his eyes to
the faces that gazed on him so earnestly in disappointment, in affection, or in scorn, he spoke:
'Brave friends, who may perchance love me the better that I have been a captive half my life
and all my reign, you can believe how sair my heart burns for my bonnie land's sake, and how
little I'd reck of my life for her weal.  But broken oaths are ill beginnings.  For me, so
notably trusted by King Henry, to break my bonds, would shame both Scots and kings; and it
were yet more paltry to feign to yield to my Lord of Douglas.  Rescue or no rescue, I am England's
captive.  Gentles, kindly brother Scots, in one way alone can you free me.  Give up this wretched
land of France, whose troubles are but lengthened by your valour.  Let me gang to King Harry
and tell him your swords are at his service, so soon as I am free.  But his picture of royal
power accorded ill with the notions of a Black Douglas, in the most masterful days of that
family; and Earl Archibald, who had come to regard kings as beings meant to be hectored by
Douglases, resentfully exclaimed, 'Hear him, comrades; he has avouched himself a Southron at
heart.  Has he reckoned how little it would cost to give a thrust to the caitiff who has lost
heart in his prison, and clear the way for Albany, who is at least a true Scot?'

'Do so, Lord Earl,' said James, 'and end a long captivity.  But let these go scatheless.'

With one voice, Percy, Kitson, Trenton, and Brewster, shouted their resolve to defend him to
the last; and Malcolm, flinging himself on Patrick Drummond, adjured him to save the King.

'Thou here, laddie!' said Patrick, amazed; and while several more knights exclaimed, 'Sir,
Sir, we'll see no hand laid on you!' he thrust forward, 'Take my horse, Sir, ride on, and I'll
see no scathe befall you.'

'Thanks,' said James; 'but my feet will serve me best; we will keep together.'

The Scottish force seemed dividing into two: Douglas and his friends and retainers, mounted
and holding together, as though still undecided whether to grapple with the King and his half-dozen
companions; while Drummond and about ten more lances were disposed to guard him at all risks.

'Now,' said James to his English friends; and therewith, sword in hand, he moved with a steady
but swift stride towards the camp, nor did Douglas attempt pursuit; some of the other horsemen
hovered between, and Patrick Drummond, with a puzzled face, kept near on foot.  So they proceeded
till they reached a bank and willow hedge, through which horses could hardly have pursued them.

On the other side of this, James turned round and said, 'Thanks, Sir Knight; I suppose I may
not hope that you will become a follower of the knight adventurer.'

'I cannot fight under the English banner, my liege.  Elsewhere I would fellow you to the death.'

'This is no time to show your error,' said James; 'and I therefore counsel you to come no farther.
The English will be pricking forth in search of us: so I will but thank you for your loyal aid.'

'I entreat you, Sir,' cried Patrick, 'not to believe that we meant this matter to go as it
has done!  It had long been our desire--of all of us, that is, save my Lord Buchan's retainers--to
find you and release you; but never did we deem that Lord Douglas would have dared to conduct
matters thus.'

'You would be little the better for me did Lord Douglas bring me back on his own terms,' said
James, smiling.  'No, no; when I go home, it shall be as a free king, able to do justice to
all alike; and for that I am content to bide my time, and trust to such as you to back me when
it comes.'

'And with all my heart, Sir,' said Patrick.  'Would that you were where I could do so now.
Ah! laddie,' to Malcolm; 'ye're in good hands.  My certie, I kenned ye but by your voice! 
Ye're verily grown into a goodly ship after all, and ye stood as brave as the rest.  My poor
father would have been fain to see this day!'

Malcolm flushed to the ears; somehow Patrick's praise was not as pleasant to him as he would
have expected, and he only faltered, 'You know--'

'I ken but what Johnnie Swinton brought me in a letter frae the Abbot of Coldingham, that my
father--the saints be with him!--had been set on and slain by yon accursed Master of Albany--would
that his thrapple were in my grip!--that he had sent you southwards to the King, and that your
sister was in St. Abbs.  Is it so?'

Malcolm had barely time to make a sign of affirmation, when the King hurried him on.  'I grieve
to balk you of your family tidings, but delay will be ill for one or other of us; so fare thee
well, Sir Patrick, till better times.'

He shook the knight's hand as he spoke, cut short his protestations, and leapt down the bank,
saying in a low voice, as he stretched out his hand and helped Malcolm down after him, 'He
would have known me again for your guest if we had stood many moments longer; he looked hard
at me as it was; and neither in England nor Scotland may that journey of mine be blazed abroad.'

Malcolm was on the whole rather relieved; he could not help feeling guilty towards Patrick,
and unless he could have full time for explanation, he preferred not falling in with him.

And at the same moment Kitson stepped towards the King.  'Sir, you are an honest man, and we
crave your pardon if we said aught that seemed in doubt thereof.'

James laughed, shaking each honest hand, and saying, 'At least, good sirs, do not always think
Scot and traitor the same word; and thank you for backing me so gallantly.'

'I'd wish no better than to back such as you, Sir,' said Kitson heartily; and James then turned
to Ralf Percy, and asked him what he thought of the Douglas face to face.

'A dour old block!' said Ralf.  'If those runaways had but stayed within us, the hoary ruffian
should have had his lesson from a Percy.'

James smiled, for the grim giant was still a good deal more than a match for the slim, rosy-faced
stripling of the house of Percy, who nevertheless simply deemed his nation and family made
him invincible by either Scot or Frenchman.

The difficulties of their progress, however, entirely occupied them. Having diverged from the
regular track, they had to make their way through the inundated meadows; sometimes among deep
pools, sometimes in quagmires, or ever hedges; while the water that drenched them was fast
freezing, and darkness came down on them.  All stumbled or were bogged at different times;
and Malcolm, shorter and weaker than the rest, and his lameness becoming more felt than usual,
could not help impeding their progress, and at last was so spent that but for the King's strong
arm he would have spent the night in a bog-hole.

At last the lights were near, the outskirts were gained, the pass-word given to the watch,
and the rough but welcome greeting was heard--'That's well!  More of you come in!  How got
you off?'

'The rogues got back, then?' said Kitson.

'Some score of them,' was the answer; 'but 'tis thought most are drowned or stuck by the French.
The King is in a proper rage, as well he may be; but what else could come of a false Scot in
the camp?'

'Have a care, you foul tongue!' Percy was the first to cry; and as torches were now brought
out and cast their light on the well-known faces, the soldiers stood abashed; but James tarried
not for their excuses; his heart was hot at the words which implied that Henry suspected him,
and he strode hastily on to the convent, where the quadrangle was full of horses and men, and
the windows shone with lights. At the door of the refectory stood a figure whose armour flashed
with light, and his voice sounded through the closed visor--'I tell you, March, I cannot rest
till I knew what his hap has been.  If he have done this thing--'

'What then?' answered James out of the darkness, in a voice deep with wrath; but Henry started.

'You there! you safe!  Speak again!  Come here that I may see.  Where is he?'

'Here, Sir King,' said James, gravely.

'Now the saints be thanked!' cried Henry, joyously.  'Where be the caitiffs that brought me
their false tale?  They shall hang for it at once.'

'It was the less wonder,' said James, still coldly, 'that they should have thought themselves
betrayed, since their king believed it of me.'

'Nay, 'twas but for a hot moment--ay, and the bitterest I ever spent. What could I do when
the villains swore that there were signals and I know not what devices passing?  I hoped yet
'twas but a plea for their own cowardice, and was mounting to come and see for you.  Come,
I should have known you better; I'd rather the whole world deceived me than have distrusted
you, Jamie.'

There was that in his tone which ended all resentment, and James's hand was at once clasped
in his, while Henry added, 'Ho, Provost-marshal! to the gallows with these knaves!'

'Nay, Harry,' said James, 'let me plead for them.  There was more than ordinary to dismay them.'

'Dismay! ay, the more cause they should have stood like honest men.  If a rogue be not to hang
for deserting his captain and then maligning him, soon would knavery be master of all.'

'Hear me first, Hal.'

'I'll hear when I return and you are dried.  Why, man, thou art an icicle errant; change thy
garments while I go round the posts, or I shall hear nought for the chattering of thy teeth.'

'Nor I for your cough, if you go, Harry.  Surely, 'tis Salisbury's night!'

'The more cause that I be on the alert!  Could I be everywhere, mayhap a few winter blasts
would not have chilled and frozen all the manhood out of the host.'

He spoke very sharply as he threw him on his horse, and wrapped his cloak about him--a poor
defence, spite of the ermine lining, against the frost of the December night for a man whose
mother, the fair and wise Mary de Bohun, had died in early youth from disease of the lungs.

James and the two young partners of his adventure had long been clad in their gowns of peace,
and seated by the fire in the refectory, James with his harp in his hand, from time to time
dreamily calling forth a few plaintive notes, such as he said always rang in his ears after
hearing a Scottish voice, when they again heard Henry's voice in hot displeasure with the provost-marshal
for having deferred the execution of the runaways till after the hearing of the story of the
King of Scots.

'His commands were not to be transgressed for the king of anything,' and he only reprieved
the wretches till morning that their fate might be more signal.  He spoke with the peremptory
fierceness that had of late almost obscured his natural good-humour and kindliness; and when
he entered the refectory and threw himself into a chair by the fire, he looked wearied out
in body and mind, shivered and coughed, and said with unwonted depression that the sullen fellows
would make a quagmire of their camp after all, since a French reinforcement had come up, and
the vigilance that would be needed would occupy the whole army.  At supper he ate little and
spoke less; and when James would have related his encounter within the Scots, he cut him short,
saying, 'Let that rest till morning; I am sick of hearing of it!  An air upon thy harp would
be more to the purpose.'

Nor would James have been unwilling to be silent on old Douglas's conduct if he had not been
anxious to plead for the panic-stricken archers, as well as to extol the conduct of the two
youths, and of the Yorkshire squires; but, as he divined that the young Hotspur would regard
praise from him as an insult, he deferred the subject for his absence, and launched into a
plaintive narrative ballad, to which Henry listened, leaning back in his chair, often dozing,
but without relaxation of the anxiety that sat on his pale face, and ever and anon wakening
within a heavy sigh, as though his buoyant spirits were giving way under the weight of care
he had brought on himself.

James was just singing of one of the many knightly orphans of romance, exposed in woods to
the nurture of bears, his father slain, his mother dead of grief--a ditty he had perhaps chosen
for its soporific powers--when a gay bugle blast rang through the court of the convent.

'The French would scarce send to parley thus late,' exclaimed James; but the next moment a
joyful clamour arose without, and Henry, springing to his feet, spoke not, but stood awaiting
the tidings with the colour burning on cheek and brow in suppressed excitement.

An esquire, splashed to the ears, hurried into the room, and falling on his knees, cried aloud,
'God save King Harry!  News, news, my lord!  The Queen has safely borne you a fair son at Windsor
Castle, five days since.'

Henry did not speak, but took the messenger's hand, wrung it, and left a costly ring there.
Then, taking off his cap, he put his hands over his face, uttering a few words of fervent thanksgiving
almost within himself, and then turning to the esquire, made further inquiries after his wife's
welfare, took from him the letter that Archbishop Chicheley had sent, poured out a cup of wine
for him, bade the lords around make him good cheer, but craved license for himself to retire.

It was so unlike his usual hilarious manner that all looked at one another in anxiety, and
spoke of his unusual susceptibility to fatigue and care; while the squire, looking at the rich
jewel in his hand, declared within disappointment in his tone, that he would rather have had
a mere flint stone so he had heard King Harry's own cheery voice.

James was not the least anxious of them, but long ere light the next morning Henry stood at
his bedside, saying, 'I must go round the posts before mass, Jamie.  Will you face the matin
frost?'

'I am fitter to face it than thou,' said James, rising.  'Is there need for this?'

'Great need,' said Henry.  'Here are these fresh forces all aglow within their first zeal,
and unless they are worse captains than I suppose them, they will attempt some mischief ere
long--nor is any time so slack as cock-crow.'

James was speedily ready, and, within some suppressed sighs, so was Malcolm, who knew himself
in duty bound to attend his master, and was kept on the alert by seeing Ralf Percy also on
foot.  But it was a great relief to him that the young gentleman murmured in no measured terms
against the intolerable activity of their kings.  No other attendants went within them, since
Henry was wont to patrol his camp with as little demonstration as possible.

'I would scarcely ask a dog to come out with me this wintry morn,' said he, as he waved back
his sleepy chamberlain, Fitzhugh, and took his brother king's arm; 'but I could not but crave
a turn with thee, Jamie, ere the hue and cry of rejoicing begins.'

'That is poor welcome for your heir,' said James.

'Poor child!' said Henry; then, after they had walked some space in silence, he added, 'You'll
mock me, but I would that this had not befallen at Windsor.  I had laid my plans that it should
be otherwise; but ladies are ill to guide.'

'And wherefore should it not have been at fair Windsor?  If I can love it as a prison, sure
your son may well love it as a cradle.'

'No dishonour to Windsor,' said Henry; 'but, sleeping or waking, this whole night hath this
adage rung in my ears--

   "Harry, born at Monmouth, shall short time live and all get;
   Harry, born at Windsor, shall long time live and lose all."'

'A most choice piece of royal poesy and prophecy,' laughed James.

'Nay, do not charge me with it, thou dainty minstrel.  It was sung to me by mime old Herefordshire
nurse, when Windsor seemed as little within my reach as Meaux, and I never thought of it again
till I looked to have a son.'

'Then balk the prophecy,' said James; 'Edward born at Windsor got enough, and lived long enough
to boot!'

'Too late!' was the answer.  'The Archbishop christened the poor child Harry in the very hour
of his birth.'

'Poor child!' echoed James, rather sarcastically.

'Nay, 'tis not solely the rhyme,' said Henry; 'but this has been a wakeful night, and not without
misgivings whether I am one who ought to look for joy in his children.'

'What is past was not such that you alone should cry mea culpa,' said James.

'I never thought so till now,' said Henry.  'Yet who knows?  My father was a winsome young
man ere his exile, full of tenderness to us all, at the rare times he was with us.  Who knows
what cares may make of me ere my boy learns to knew me?'

'You will not hold him aloof, and give him no chance of loving you?'

'I trow not!  I'll have him with me in the camp, and he and my brave men shall be one another's
pride.  Which Roman emperor is it that hears the nickname his father's soldiers gave him as
a child?  Nay--Caligula was it?  Omens are against me this morning.'

'Then laughs them to scorn, and be yourself,' said James.  'Bless God for the goodly child,
who is born to two kingdoms, won by his father's and his grandsire's swords.'

'Ah!' said Henry, depressed by failing health, a sleepless night, and hungry morning, 'maybe
it were better for him, soul and body both, did I stand here Duke of Lancaster, and good Edmund
of March yonder were head of realm and army.'

'Never would he be head of this army,' said James.  'He would be snoring at Shene; that is,
if he could sleep for the trouble the Duke of Lancaster would be giving him.'

Henry laughed at last.  'Good King Edmund, he would assuredly never try to set the world right
on its hinges.  Honest fellow, soon he will be as hearty in his congratulations as though he
did not lie under a great wrong.  Heigh-ho! such as he may be in the right on't.  I've marvelled
of late, whether any priest or hermit could bring back my old assurance, that all this is my
work on earth, or tell me if it be all one grand error.  Men there have been like Caesar, Alexander,
or Charlemagne, who thought my thoughts and worked them out; and surely Church and nations
cry aloud for purifying.  Jerusalem, and a general council--I saw them once clear and bright
before me; but now a mist seems to rise up from Richard's blood, and hide them from me; and
there comes from it my father's voice when he asked on his deathbed what right I had to the
crown.  What would it be if I had to leave this work half done?'

He was interrupted by the sight of a young knight stealing into the camp, after a furtive expedition
to Paris.  It was enough to rouse him from his despondent state; and the severity of his wrath
was in full proportion to the offence.  Nor did he again utter his misgivings, but was full
of his usual alacrity and life, as though daylight had restored his buoyancy.

James, on the way back to the thanksgiving mass, interceded for last night's offenders, as
an act of grace suitable to the occasion; but Henry was inexorable.

'Had they stood to die like Englishmen, they had not lied like dogs! 'he said; 'and as dogs
they shall hang!'

In fact, in the critical state of his army, he knew that the only safety lay in the promptest
and sternest justice; and therefore the three foremost in accusing King James of treachery
were hung long before noon.

However, he called for the two Yorkshiremen, and thus addressed them: 'Well done, my masters!
Thanks for showing Scots and Frenchmen what stuff Englishmen are made of!  I keep my word,
good fellows.  Kneel down, and I'll dub each a knight.  How now! what are you blundering and
whispering for?'

'So please you, Sir,' said Kitson, 'this is no matter to win one's spurs for--mere standing
still without a blow.'

'I would all had that same gift of standing still,' returned Henry.  'What is it sticks in
your gizzard, friend?  If 'tis the fees, I take them on myself.'

'No, Sir,' hoarsely cried both.

And Kitson explained: 'Sir, you said you'd knight the one of us that was foremost.  Now, the
two being dubbed, we shall be but where we were before as to Mistress Agnes of Mineshull, unless
of your good-will you would be pleased to let us fight out the wager of the heriard in all
peace and amity.'

Henry burst out laughing, with all his old merriment, as he said, 'For no Mistress Agnes living
can I have honest men's lives wasted, specially of such as have that gift of standing still.
If she does not knew her own mind, one of you must get himself killed by the Frenchmen, not
by one another.  So kneel down, and we'll make your knighthood's feast fall in with that of
my son.'

Thus Sir Christopher Kitson and Sir William Trenton rose up knights; and bore their honours
with a certain bluntness that made them butts, even while they were the heroes of the day;
and Henry, who had resumed his gay temper, made much diversion out of their mingled shrewdness
and gruffness.

'So,' muttered Malcolm to Ralf Percy, 'we are passed over in the self- same matter for which
these fellows are knighted.'

'Tush!' answered Percy; 'I'd scorn to be confounded with a couple of clowns like them!  Moreover,'
he added, with better reason, 'their valour was more exercised than ours, inasmuch as they
thought there was treachery, and we did not.  No, no; when my spurs are won, it shall be for
some prowess, better than standing stock-still.'

Malcolm held his tongue, unwilling that Percy should see that he did feel this an achievement;
but he was vexed at the lack of reward, fancying that knighthood would be no small step in
the favour of that imaginary Esclairmonde whom he had made for himself.

'Light of the world' he loved to call her still, but it was in the commonplace romance of his
time, the mere light of beauty and grace illuminating the world of chivalry.

CHAPTER VIII: THE CAPTURE

The seven months' siege ended at last, but it was not until the brightness of May was on the
fields outside, and the deadly blight of famine on all within, that a haggard, wasted-looking
deputation came down from the upper city to treat with the King.

Henry was never severe with the inhabitants of French cities, and exacted no harsh terms, save
that he insisted that Vaurus, the robber captain, and his two chief lieutenants, should be
given up to him to suffer condign punishment.  The warriors who had shut themselves up to hold
out the place by honourable warfare for the Dauphin must be put to ransom as prisoners of war;
but the burghers were to be unmolested, on condition of their swearing allegiance to Henry
as regent for, and heir of, Charles VI.

To this the deputies consented, and the next day was fixed for the surrender.  The difficulty
was, as Henry had found at Harfleur, Rouen, and many other places, to enforce forbearance on
his soldiery, who regarded plunder as their lawful prey, the enemy as their natural game, and
the trouble a city had given them as a cause for unmercifulness.  The more time changed his
army from the feudal gathering of English country gentlemen and yeomen to mercenary bands of
men-at-arms, the mere greedy, rapacious, and insubordinate became their temper.  Well knowing
the greatness of the peril, and that the very best of his captains had scarcely the will, if
they had the power, to restrain the license that soon became barbarity unimaginable, he spoke
sadly overnight of his dread of the day of surrender, when it might prove impossible to prevent
deeds that would be not merely a blot on his scutcheon, but a shame to human nature; looking
back to the exultation with which he had entered Harfleur as a mere effect of boyish ignorance
and thoughtlessness.

Having taken all possible precautions, he stood in his full armour, with the fox's brush in
his helmet, under the great elm in the market-place, received the keys, accepted the sword
of the captain commissioned by Charles with royal courtesy, gave his hand to be kissed by the
mayor; and then, with grave inexorable air, like a statue of steel, watched as the freebooter
Vaurus and his two chief companions were led down with their hands tied, halters round their
necks, and priests at their sides, preparing them to be hung on that very tree.  They were
proud hard men, and uttered no entreaty for grace.  They had hung too many travellers upon
these same branches not to expect their own turn, and they were no cravens to abase themselves.

That act of justice ended, Henry mounted his warhorse and rode in at the gates.  His wont was
to go straight to the principal church, and there attend a solemn mass of thanksgiving; but
experience had taught him that his devotions were the very opportunity of his men's rapine:
he had therefore arranged that as soon as he should have arrived in the choir of the cathedral,
James should take his place, and he slip out by a side door, so as to return to the scene of
action.

In full procession he and his suite reached the chief door, and there dismounted in an immense
crowd, which thronged in at the doors.

'Come, Glenuskie,' said Ralf Percy, as the two youths were pushed chose together in the press;
'if you have a fancy for being smothered in the minster, I have none.  We shall never be missed.
'Twill be sport to walk round and see how these hardy rogues contrived to hold out.'

Malcolm willingly turned aside with him, and looked down the sloping street, which was swarming
with comers and goers.  The whole place was in an inflammable state.  Soldiers were demanding
quarters, which the citizens unwillingly gave.  A refusal or expostulation against a rough
entry led to violence; and ever as the two youths walked farther from the cathedral, there
was more of excitement, more rude oaths of soldiers, more shrieking of women, often crying
out even before any harm was done to them or their houses.

At last, before a tall overhanging house, there was an immense press, and a frightful din of
shouts and imprecations, filling both the new-comers with infectious eagerness.

'How now? how now?' called Percy.  'Keep the peace, good fellows.'

'Sir,' cried a number of voices, passionately, 'the French villains have barred their door.
There's a lot of cowardly Armagnacs hid there with their gold, trying to balk honest men of
their ransom.'

Such was the cry resounding on all sides.  'Have at them!  There's the rogue at the windows.
Out on the fellows!  Burn down the door!  'Tis Vaurus himself and all his gold.  Treason! treason!'

The clamour was convincing to the spirit, if not to the senses.  The two lads believed in the
concealed Armagnacs, or perhaps more truly were carried away by the vehemence around them;
and with something of the spirit of the chase, threw themselves headlong into the affair.

'Open! open!' shouted Ralf.  'Open, in the name of King Henry!'

An old man's face peeped through a little wicket in the door, and at sight of the two youths,
evidently of high rank, said in a trembling voice, 'Alas! alas!  Sir, bid these cruel men go
away.  I have nothing here--no one--only my sick daughter.'

'You hear,' said Malcolm, turning round; 'only his sick daughter.'

'Sick daughter!--old liar!  Here's an honest tinker makes oath he has hoards of gold laid up
for Vaurus, and ten Armagnacs hidden in his house. Have at him!  Bring fire!'

Blows hailed thick on the door; a flaming torch was handed over the heads of the throng; horrible
growls and roars pervaded them.  Malcolm and Ralf, furious at the cheat, stood among the foremost,
making so much noise themselves between thundering and reviling, and calling out, 'Where are
the Armagnacs?  Down with the traitors!' that they were not aware of a sudden hush behind them,
till a buffet from a heavy hand fell on Malcolm's shoulder, and a mighty voice cried 'Shame!
shame!  What, you too!'

'There are traitors hid here, Sir,' said Percy, in angry self-justification.

'And what an if there are?  Back, every one of you! rogues that you be!--Here, Fitzhugh, see
those villains back to the camp.  Let their arms be given up to the Provost-marshal.--Kites
and crows as you are!  Away, out with you!'

Henry pointed to the broken door, and the cowed and abashed soldiers slunk away from the terrible
light of his eyes.  No man could stand before the face of the King.

There was a stillness.  He stood leaning on his sword, his chest heaving with his panting breaths.
He was naturally as fleet as the swift-footed Achilles, but the winter had told upon him, and
the haste with which he had rushed to the rescue left him breathless and speechless, while
he seemed as it were to nail the two lads to the spot by his steady gaze of mingled distress
and displeasure.

Neither could brook his eye: Percy hung his head like a boy in a scrape; Malcolm quailed with
terror, but at the same time felt a keen sense of injury in being thus treated as a plunderer,
and the blow under which his shoulder ached seemed an indignity to his royal blood.

'Boys,' said Henry, still low and breathlesly, but all the more impressively, 'what is to become
of honour and mercy if such as you must needs become ravening wolves at scent of booty?'

'It was not booty, Sir; they said traitors were hid here,' said Percy, sulkily.

'Tush! the old story!  Ever the plea for rapine and bloodthirstiness. After the warnings of
last night you should have known better; but you are all alike in frenzy for a sack.  You have
both put off your knighthood till you have learnt not to become a shame thereto.'

'I take not knighthood at your hands, Sir,' burst out Malcolm, goaded with hot resentment,
but startled the next moment at the sound of his own words.

'I cry you mercy,' said King Henry, in a cold, short tone.

Malcolm turned on his heel and walked away, without waiting to see how the poor old man in
the house threw himself at the King's feet with a piteous history of his sick daughter and
her starving children, nor how Ralf hurried off headlong to the lower town to send them immediate
relief in bread, wine, and doctors.  The gay, good-natured, thoughtless lad no mere harboured
malice for the chastisement than if his tutor had caught him idling; but things went deeper
with Malcolm.  True, he had undergone many a brutal jest and cruel practical joke from his
cousins; but that was all in the family, not like a blow from an alien king, and one not apologized
for, but followed up by a rebuke that seemed to him unjust, lowering him in his own eyes and
those of Esclairmonde, and making him ready to gnaw himself with moody vexation.

'You here, Malcolm!' said King James, entering his quarters; 'did you miss me in the throng?
I have not seen you all day.'

'I have been insulted, Sir,' said Malcolm.  'I pray your license to depart and carry my sword
to my kinsmen in the French camp.'

'How now!  Is it the way to treat an insult to run away from it?'

'Not when the world judges men to be on equal terms, my lord.'

'What!  Who has done you wrong, you silly loon?'

'King Henry, Sir; he struck me with his fist, and rated me like his hound; and I will not eat
another morsel of his bread unless he would answer it to me in single combat.'

'Little enough bread you'd eat after that same answer!' ejaculated James. 'Oh!  I understand
now.  You were with young Hotspur and the rest that set on the poor townsmen, and Harry made
small distinction of persons! Nay, Malcolm, it was ill in you, that talked of so loathing spulzie!'

'I wanted no spulzie.  There were Armagnacs hid in the house, and the King would not hear us.'

'He knew that story too well.  Were you asleep or idling last night, when he warned all, on
no plea whatever, to break into a house, but, if the old tale of treachery came up, to set
a guard, and call one of the captains?  Did you hear him--eh?'

'I can take chiding from you, Sir, but neither words nor blows from any other king in Christendom,
still less when he threatens me that I have deferred my knighthood!  As if I would have it
from him!'

'From me you will not have it until he have pardoned Ralf Percy,' said James, dryly.  'Malcolm,
I had not thought you such a fule body!  Under a captain's banner, what can be done but submit
to his rule?  I should do so myself, were Salisbury or March in command.'

'Then, Sir,' said Malcolm, much hurt that the King did not take his part, 'I shall carry my
service elsewhere.'

'So,' said James, much vexed, 'this is the meek lad that wanted to hide in a convent from an
ill world, flying off from his king and kinsman that he may break down honest men's doors at
his will.'

'That I may be free from insult, Sir.'

'You think John of Buchan like to cosset you!  You found the Black Douglas so courtly to me
the other day as to expect him to be tender to this nicety of yours!  Malcolm, as your prince
and guardian, I forbid this folly, and command you to lay aside this fit of malice and do your
devoir.  What! sobbing, silly lad--where's your manhood?'

'Sir, Sir, what will they think of me--the Lady Esclairmonde and all--if they hear I have sat
down tamely with a blow?'

'She will never think about you at all but as a sullen malapert ne'er-do- weel, if you go off
to that camp of routiers, trying to prop a bad cause because you cannot take correction, nor
observe discipline.'

A sudden suspicion came over Malcolm that the King would not thus make light of the offence,
if it had really been the inexpiable insult he had supposed it, and the thought was an absolute
relief; for in effect the parting from James, and joining the party opposed to Esclairmonde's
friends, would have been so tremendous a step, that he could hardly have contemplated it in
his sober senses, and he murmured, 'My honour, Sir,' in a tone that James understood.

'Oh, for your honour--you need not fear for that!  Any knight in the army could have done as
much without prejudice to your honour.  Why, you silly loon, d'ye think I would not have been
as angered as yourself, if your honour had been injured?'

Malcolm's heart felt easier, but he still growled.  'Then, Sir, if you assure me that I can
do so without detriment to my honour, I will not quit you.'

James laughed.  'It might have been more graciously spoken, my good cousin, but I am beholden
to you.'

Malcolm, ashamed and vexed at the sarcastic tone, held his tongue for a little while, but presently
exclaimed, 'Will the Bishop of Therouenne hear of it?'

James laughed.  'Belike not; or, if he should, it would only seem to him the reasonable training
of a young squire.'

The King did not say what crossed his own mind, that the Bishop of Therouenne was more likely
to think Henry over-strict in discipline, and absurdly rigorous.

The prelate, Charles de Luxemburg, brother to the Count de St. Pol, had made several visits
to the English camp.  He was one of these princely younger sons, who, like Beaufort at home,
took ecclesiastical preferments as their natural provision, and as a footing whence they might
become statesmen.  He was a great admirer of Henry's genius, and, as the chief French prelate
who was heartily on the English side, enjoyed a much greater prominence than he could have
done at either the French or Burgundian Court.  He and his brother of St. Pol were Esclairmonde's
nearest kinsmen--'oncles a la mode de Bretagne,' as they call the relationship which is here
sometimes termed Welsh uncle, or first cousins once removed--and from him James had obtained
much more complete information about Esclairmonde than he could ever get from the flighty Duchess.

Her mother, a beautiful Walloon, had been heiress to wide domains in Hainault, her father to
great estates in Flanders, all which were at present managed by the politic Bishop.  Like most
of the statesman-secular-clergy, the Bishop hated nothing so much as the monastic orders, and
had made no small haste to remove his fair niece from the convent at Dijon, where she had been
educated, lest the Cistercians should become possessed of her lands.  He had one scheme for
her marriage; but his brother, the Count, had wished to give her to his own second son, who
was almost an infant; and the Duke of Burgundy had designs on her for his half-brother Boemond;
and among these various disputants, Esclairmonde had never failed to find support against whichever
proposal was forced upon her, until the coalition between the Dukes of Burgundy and Brabant
becoming too strong, she had availed herself of Countess Jaqueline's discontent to evade them both.

The family had, of course, been much angered, and had fully expected that her estates would
go to some great English abbey, or to some English lord whose haughty reserve and insularity
would be insupportable.  It was therefore a relief to Monseigneur de Therouenne to hear James's
designs; and when the King further added, that he would be willing to let the claims on the
Hainault part of her estates be purchased by the Count de St. Pol, and those in Flanders by
the Duke of Burgundy, the Bishop was delighted, and declared that, rather than such a negotiation
should fail, he would himself advance the sum to his brother; but that the Duke of Burgundy's
consent was more doubtful, only could they not do without it?

And he honoured Malcolm with a few words of passing notice from time to time, as if he almost
regarded him as a relation.  No doubt it would have been absurd to fly from such chances as
these to Patrick Drummond and the opposite camp; and yet there were times when Malcolm felt
as if he should get rid of a load on his heart if he were to break with all his present life,
hurry to Patrick, confess the whole to him, and then--hide his head in some hermitage, leaving
his pledge unforfeited!

That, however, could not be.  He was bound to the King, and might not desert him, and it was
not unpleasant to brood over the sacrifice of his own displeasure.

'See,' said Henry, in the evening, as he came into the refectory and walked up to James, 'I
have found my signet.  It was left in the finger of my Spanish glove, which I had not worn
since the beginning of winter. Thanks to all who took vain pains to look for it.'

But Malcolm did not respond with his pleased look to the thanks.  He was not in charity with
Henry, and crept out of hearing of him, while James was saying, 'You had best destroy one or
the other, or they will make mischief.  Here, I'll crush it with the pommel of my sword.'

'Ay,' said Henry, laughing, 'you'd like to shew off one of your sledge- hammer blows--Sir Bras
de Fer!  But, Master Scot, you shall not smash the English shield so easily.  This one hangs
too loose to be safe; I shall keep it to serve me when we have fattened up at Paris, after
the leanness of our siege.'

'Hal,' said James, seeing his gay temper restored, 'you have grievously hurt that springald
of mine.  His northern blood cannot away with the taste he got of your fist.'

'Pretty well for your godly young monk, to expect to rob unchecked!' laughed Henry.

'He will do well at last,' said James.  'Manhood has come on him with a rush, and borne him
off his feet; nor would I have him over-tame.'

'There spake the Scot!' said Henry.  'By my faith, Jamie, we should have had you the worst
robber of all had we not caught you young!  Well, what am I do for this sprig of royalty? 
Say I struck unawares?  Nay, had I known him, I'd have struck with as much of a will as his
slight bones would bear.'

'An you love me, Hal, do something to cool his ill blood, and remove the sense of shame that
sinks a lad in his own eyes.'

'Methought,' said Henry, 'there was more shame in the deed than in the buffet.'

Nevertheless the good-natured King took an occasion of saying: 'My Lord of Glenuskie, I smote
without knowing you.  It was no place for a prince--nay, for any honest man; otherwise no hand
should have been laid on my guest or my brother's near kinsman.  And whereas I hear that both
you and my fiery hot Percy verily credited the cry that prisoners were hid in that house, let
me warn you that never was place yielded on composition but some villain got up the shout,
and hundreds of fools followed it, till they learnt villainy in their turn.  Therefore I ever
chastise transgression of my command to touch neither dwelling nor inhabitant.  You have both
learnt your lesson, and the lion rampant and he of the straight tail will both be reined up
better another time.'

Malcolm had no choice but to bend his head, mutter something, and let the King grasp his hand,
though to him the apology seemed none at all, but rather to increase the offence, since the
blame was by no means taken back again, while the condescension was such as could not be rejected,
and thus speciously took away his excuse for brooding over his wrath.  His hand lay so unwillingly
in that strong hearty clasp that the King dropped it, frowned, shrugged his shoulders, and
muttered to himself, 'Sullen young dog!  No Scot can let bygones be bygones!' and then he turned
away and cast the trifle from his memory.

James was amazed not to see the moody face clear up, and asked of Malcolm whether he were not
gratified with this ample satisfaction.

'I trow I must be, Sir,' said Malcolm.

'I tell thee, boy,' said James, 'not one king--nay, not one man--in a thousand would have offered
thee the frank amends King Harry hath done this day: nay, I doubt whether even he could so
have done, were it not that the hope of his wife's coming hath made him overflow with joy and
charity to all the world.'

Malcolm did not make much reply, and James regarded him with some disappointment.  The youth
was certainly warmly attached to him, but these tokens of superiority to the faults of his
time and country which had caused the King to seek him for a companion seemed to have vanished
with his feebleness and timidity.  The manhood that had been awakened was not the chivalrous,
generous, and gentle strength of Henry and his brothers, but the punctilious pride and sullenness,
and almost something of the license, of the Scot.  The camp had not proved the school of chivalry
that James, in his inexperience, had imagined it must be under Henry, and the tedium and wretchedness
of the siege had greatly added to its necessary evils by promoting a reckless temper and willingness
to snatch at any enjoyment without heed to consequences.  Close attendance on the kings had
indeed prevented either Malcolm or Percy from even having the temptation of running into any
such lengths as those gentry who had plundered the shrine of St. Fiacre at Breuil, or were
continually galloping off for an interval of dissipation at Paris; but they were both on the
outlook for any snatch of stolen diversion, for in ceasing from monastic habits Malcolm seemed
to have laid aside the scruples of a religious or conscientious youth, and specially avoided
Dr. Bennet, the King's almoner.

James feared he had been mistaken, and looked to the influence of Esclairmonde to repair the
evil, if perchance she should follow the Queen to France.  And this it was almost certain she
must do, since she was entirely dependent upon the Countess of Hainault, and could not obtain
admission to a nunnery without recovering a portion of her estates.

CHAPTER IX: THE DANCE OF DEATH

The Queen was coming!  No sooner had the first note of surrender been sounded from the towers
of Meaux, than Henry had sent intelligence to England that the way was open for the safe arrival
of his much-loved wife; and at length, on a sunny day in May, tidings were received that she
had landed in France, under the escort of the Duke of Bedford.

Vincennes, in the midst of its noble forest, was the place fixed for the meeting of the royal
pair; and never did a happier or more brilliant cavalcade traverse those woodlands than that
with which Henry rode to the appointed spot.

All the winter, the King had heeded appearances as little as of old when roughing it with Hotspur
in Wales; but now his dress was of the most royal.  On his head was a small green velvet cap,
encircled by a crown in embroidery; his robe was of scarlet silk, and over it was thrown a
mantle of dark green samite, thickly powdered with tiny embroidered white antelopes; the Garter
was on his knee, the George on his neck.  It was a kingly garb, and well became the tall slight
person and fair noble features.  During these tedious months he had looked wan, haggard, and
careworn; but the lines of anxiety were all effaced, his lustrous blue eyes shone and danced
like Easter suns, his complexion rivalled the fresh delicate tints of the blossoms in the orchards;
and when, with a shyness for which he laughed at himself, he halted to brush away any trace
of dust that might offend the eye of his 'dainty Kate,' and gaily asked his brother king if
he were sufficiently pranked out for a lady's bower, James, thinking he had never seen him
so handsome, replied:

'Like a young bridegroom--nay, more like a young suitor.'

'You're jealous, Jamie--afraid of being outshone.  'Tis is your own fault, man; none can ever
tell whether you be in festal trim or not.'

For King James's taste was for sober, well-blending hues; and as he never lapsed into Henry's
carelessness, his state apparel was not very apparently dissimilar from his ordinary dress,
being generally of dark rich crimson, blue, or russet, with the St. Andrew's cross in white
silk on his breast, or else the ruddy lion, but never conspicuously; and the sombre hues always
seemed particularly well to suit his auburn colouring.

Malcolm, in scarlet and gold, was a far gayer figure, and quite conscious of the change in
his own appearance--how much taller, ruddier, and browner he had become; how much better he
held himself both in riding and walking; and how much awkwardness and embarrassment he had
lost.  No wonder Esclairmonde had despised the sickly, timid, monkish school-boy; and if she
had then shown him any sort of grace or preference, what would she think of the princely young
squire he could new show her, who had seen service, had proved his valour, and was only not
a knight because of King Henry's unkindness and King James's punctilio?--at any rate, no child
to be brow-beaten and silenced with folly about cloistral dedication, but a youth who had taken
his place in the world, and could allege that his inspiration had come through her bright eyes.

Would she be there?  That was the chief anxiety: for it was not certain that either she or
her mistress would risk themselves on the Continent; and Catherine had given no intimation
as to who would be in her suite--so that, as Henry had merrily observed, he was the only one
in the whole party who was not in suspense, except indeed Salisbury, who had sent his commands
to his little daughter to come out with the Queen.

'She is come!' cried Henry.  'Beforehand with us, after all;' and he spurred his horse on as
he saw the banner raised, and the escort around the gate; and in a few seconds more he and
his companions had hurried through the court, where the ladies had scarcely dismounted, and
hastened into the hall, breaking into the seneschal's solemn reception of the Queen.

'My Kate, my fairest!  Mine eyes have been hungry for a sight of thee.'

And Catherine, in her horned head-gear and flutter of spangled veil, was almost swallowed up
in his hearty embrace; and the fervency of his great love so far warmed her, that she clung
to him, and tenderly said, 'My lord, it is long since I saw you.'

'Thou wert before me!  Ah! forgive thy tardy knight,' he continued, gazing at her really enhanced
beauty as if he had eyes for no one else, even while with lip and hand, kiss, grasp, and word,
he greeted her companions, of whom Jaqueline of Hainault and John of Bedford were the most
prominent.

'And the babe! where is he?' then cried he.  'Let me have him to hold up to my brave fellows
in the court!'

'The Prince of Wales?' said Catherine.  'You never spake of my bringing him.'

'If I spake not, it was because I doubted not for a moment that you would keep him with you.
Nay, verily it is not in sooth that you left him.  You are merely sporting with use.'

'Truly, Sir,' said Catherine, 'I never guessed that you would clog yourself with a babe in
the cradle, and I deemed him more safely nursed at Windsor.'

'If it be for his safety!  Yet a soldier's boy should thrive among soldiers,' said the King,
evidently much disappointed, and proceeding to eager inquiries as to the appearance and progress
of his child; to which the Queen replied with a certain languor, as though she had no very
intimate personal knowledge of her little son.

Other eyes were meanwhile eagerly scanning the bright confusion of veils and wimples; and Malcolm
had just made out the tall head and dark locks under a long almost shrouding white veil far
away in the background behind the Countess of Hainault, when the Duke of Bedford came up with
a frown of consternation on his always anxious face, and drawing King James into a window,
said, 'What have you been doing to him?'--to which James, without hearing the question, replied,
'Where is she?'

'Joan?  At home.  It was the Queen's will.  Of that another time.  But what means this?' and
he signed towards his brother.  'Never saw I man so changed.'

'Had you seen him at Christmas you might have said so,' replied James; 'but now I see naught
amiss; I had been thinking I had never seen him so fair and comely.'

'I tell you, James,' said Bedford, contracting his brows till they almost met ever his arched
nose, 'I tell you, his look brings back to me my mother's, the last time she greeted my father!'

'To your fantasy, not your memory, John!  You were a mere babe at her death.'

'Of five years,' said Bedford.  'That face--that cough--have brought all back--ay, the yearning
look when my father was absent, and the pure rosy fairness that Harry and Tom cited so fiercely
against one who would have told them how sick to death she was.  I mind me too, that when our
grandame of Hereford made us motherless children over to our grandsire of Lancaster, it was
with a warning that Harry had the tender lungs of the Bohuns, and needed care.  One deadly
sickness he had at Kenilworth, when my father was ridden for post-haste.  My mind misgave me
throughout this weary siege; but his service held me fast at home, and I trusted that you would
watch over him.'

'A man like him is ill to guide,' said James; 'but he is more himself now than he has been
for months, and a few weeks' quiet with his wife will restore him.  But what is this?' he proceeded
in his turn; 'why is the Lady Joan not here?'

'How can I tell?  It was no fault of mine.  I even got a prim warning that it became me not
to meddle about her ladies, and I doubted what slanders you might hear if I were seen asking
your Nightingale for a token.'

'Have you none!  Good John, I know you have.'

John smiled his ironical smile, produced from the pouch at his girdle a small packet bound
with rose-coloured silk, and said: 'The Nightingale hath a plume, you see, and saith, moreover,
that her knight hath done his devoir passably, but that she yet looks to see him send some
captive giant to her feet.  So, Sir Knight, I hope your poor dwarf hath acquitted him well
in your chivalrous jargon.'

James smiled and coloured with pleasure; the fantastic message was not devoid of reality in
the days when young imaginative spirits tried to hide the prose of war and policy in a bright
mist of romantic fancy; nor was he ashamed to bend his manly head in reverence to, and even
press to his lips, his lady's first love-letter, in the very sight of the satirical though
sympathizing Bedford, of whom he eagerly asked of the fair Joan's health and welfare, and whether
she were flouted by Queen Catherine.

'No more than is the meed of her beauty,' said Bedford.  'Sister Kate likes not worship at
any shrine save one.  Look at our suite: our knights--yea, our very grooms are picked for their
comeliness; to wit that great feather-pated oaf of a Welshman, Owen Tudor there; while dames
and demoiselles, tire-women and all, are as near akin as may be to Sir Gawain's loathly lady.'

'Not at least the fair Luxemburg.  Did not I see her stately mien?'

'She is none of the Queen's, and moreover she stands aloof, so that the women forgive her gifts!
There is that cough of Harry's again!  He is the shadow of the man he was; I would I knew if
this were the step-dame's doing.'

'Nay, John, when you talk to me of Harry's cough, and of night-watches and flooded camps, I
hearken; but when your wits run wool-gathering after that poor woman, making waxen images stuck
full--'

'You are in the right on't, James,' said Henry, who had come up to them while he was speaking.
'John will never get sorceries out of his head.  I have thought it over, and will not be led
into oppressing my father's widow any more.  I cannot spend this Pentecost cheerily till I
know she is set free and restored to her manors; and I shall write to Humfrey and the Council
to that effect.'

And as John shrugged his shoulders, Henry gaily added: 'Thou seest what comes of a winter spent
with this unbeliever Jamie; and truly, I found the thought of unright to my father's widow
was a worse pin in my heart than ever she is like to thrust there.'

Thus then it was, that in the overflowing joy and good-will of his heart, and mayhap with the
presentiment which rendered him willing to be at peace with all his kindred, Henry forgave
and released his step-mother, Joan of Navarre, whom common rumour termed the Witch Queen, and
whom he had certainly little reason to love, whether it were true or not that she had attempted
to weave spells against him.  In fact, there were few of the new-comers from England who did
not, like Bedford, impute the transparency of Henry's hands, and the hollowness of his brightly-tinted
cheek, to some form of sorcery.

Meantime, Esclairmonde de Luxemburg, more beautiful than ever under a still simpler dress,
had greeted Malcolm with her wonted kindness; adding, with a smile, that he was so much grown
and embrowned that she should not have known him but for the sweet Scottish voice which he,
like his king, possessed.

'You do me too much grace in commending aught that is mine, madame,' said Malcolm, with an
attempt at the assurance he believed himself to have acquired; but he could only finish by
faltering and blushing.  There was a power of repression about Esclairmonde that annihilated
all his designs, and drove him back into his bashful self whenever he came into contact with
her, and felt how unlike the grave serene loftiness of her presence was to the mere queen of
romance, that in her absence her shadow had become.

Alice Montagu, returning to her side, relieved while disconcerting him. Sweet little Alice
had been in a continual flutter ever since commands had come from Meaux that she was to come
out to meet the father whom she had not seen since what seemed like half her childish lifetime,
and the betrothed whom she had never seen at all; and Lady Westmoreland had added to her awe
by the lengthened admonition with which she took leave of her. And on this day, when Esclairmonde
herself had arrayed the fair child in the daintiest of rose-pink boddices edged with swan's-down,
the whitest of kirtles, and softest of rosy veils, the flush of anxiety on the pale little
face made it so fair to look upon, that as the maiden wistfully asked, 'Think you he will flout
me?' it was impossible not to laugh at the very notion.  'Ah! but I would be glad if he did,
for then I might bide with you.'

When, in the general greeting, Alice had been sought out by a tall, dark- browed, grizzled
warrior, Esclairmonde had, cruelly, as the maiden thought, kept her station behind the Countess,
and never stirred for all those wistful backward glances, but left her alone to drop on her
knee to seek the blessing of the mighty old soldier.

And now she was holding his great hand, almost as tough as his gauntlets, and leading him up
to her friend, while he louted low, and spoke with a grand fatherly courtesy:

'Fair demoiselle, this silly wench of mine tells me that you have been good friend to her,
and I thank you for the same with all mine heart.'

'Silly' was a fond term of love then, and had all the affection of a proud father in it, as
the Earl of Salisbury patted the small soft fingers in his grasp.

'Truly, my lord,' responded Esclairmonde, 'the Lady Alice hath been my sweetest companion,
friend, and sister, for these many months.'

'Nay, child, art worthy to be called friend by such a lady as this?  If so, I shall deem my
little Alice grown a woman indeed, as it is time she were--Diccon Nevil is bent on the wedding
before we go to the wars again.'

Alice coloured like a damask rose, and hid her face behind her friend.

'Hast seen him, sweet?' asked Esclairmonde, when Salisbury had been called away.  'Is he here?'

'Yes; out there--he with the white bull on his surcoat,' said Alice, dreading to look that way.

'And hast spoken with him?' asked the lady next, feeling as if the stout, commonplace, hardy-looking
soldier she saw was scarce what she would have chosen for her little wild rose of an Alice,
comely and brave though he were.

'He hath kissed mine hand,' faltered Alice, but it was quite credible that not a word had passed.
The marriage was a business contract between the houses of Wark and Raby, and a grand speculation
for Sir Richard Nevil, that was all; but gentle Alice had no reluctance beyond mere maidenly
shyness, and unwillingness to enter on an unknown future under a new lord.  She even whispered
to her dear Clairette that she was glad Sir Richard never tormented her by talking to her,
and that he was grave, and so old.

'So old? why, little one, he can scarce be seven-and-twenty!'

'And is not that old? oh, so old!' said Alice.  'Able to take care of me. I would not have
a youth like that young Lord of Glenuskie.  Oh no--never!'

'That is well,' said Esclairmonde, smiling; 'but wherefore put such disdain in thy voice, Alice?
He used to be our playfellow, and he hath grown older and more manly in this year.'

'His boyhood was better than such manhood,' said Alice; 'he was more to my taste when he was
meek, than now that he seems to say, "I would be saucy if I durst."  And he hath not the stuff
to dare any way.'

'Fie! fie!  Alice, you are growing slanderous.'

'Nay, now, Clairette, own verily--you feel the like!'

'Hush, silly one, what skills it?  Youths must pass through temptation; and if his king hindered
his vocation, maybe the poor lad may rue it sorely, but methinks he will come to the right
at last.  It were better to say a prayer for his faults than to speak evil of them, Alice.'

Poor Malcolm!  He was at that very moment planning with an embroiderer a robe wherein to appear,
covered with flashes of lightning transfixing the world, and mottoes around--'Esclaire mais
Embrase'

Every moment that he was absent from Esclairmonde was spent in composing chivalrous discourses
in which to lay himself at her feet, but the mere sight of her steady dark eyes scattered them
instantly from his memory; and save for very shame he would have entreated King James again
to break the ice for him, since the lady evidently supposed that she had last year entirely
quashed his suit.  And in this mood Malcolm mounted and took his place to ride into Paris,
where the King wished to arrive in the evening, and with little preparation, so as to avoid
the weary length of a state reception, with all its speeches and pageants.

In the glow of a May evening the cavalcade passed the gates, and entered the city, where the
streets were so narrow that it was often impossible to ride otherwise than two and two.  The
foremost had emerged into an open space before a church and churchyard, when there was a sudden
pause, a shock of surprise.  All across the space, blocking up the way, was an enormous line
of figures, looking shadowy in the evening light, and bearing the insignia of every rank and
dignity that earth presented. Popes were there, with triple crown and keys, and fanned by peacock
tails; scarlet-matted and caped cardinals, mitred and crosiered bishops, crowned and sceptred
kings, ermined dukes, steel-clad knights, gowned lawyers, square-capped priests, cowled monks,
and friars of every degree--nay, the mechanic with his tools, the peasant with his spade, even
the beggar within his dish; old men, and children of every age; and women too of all grades--the
tower-crowned queen, the beplumed dame, the lofty abbess, the veiled nun, the bourgeoise, the
peasant, the beggar;--all were there, moving in a strange shadowy wild dance, sometimes slow,
sometimes swift and mad with gaiety, to the music of an unseen band of clashing kettle-drums,
cymbals, and other instruments, that played fast and furiously; while above all a knell in
the church tower rang forth at intervals a slow, deep, lugubrious note; and all the time there
glided in and out through the ring a grisly being--skull-headed, skeleton-boned, scythe in
hand--Death himself; and ever and anon, when the dance was swiftest, would he dart into the
midst, pounce on one or other, holding an hour-glass to the face, unheeding rank, sex, or age,
and bear his victim to the charnel-house beside the church.  It was a sight as though some
terrible sermon had taken life, as though the unseen had become visible, the veil were taken
away; and the implicit unresisting obedience of the victims added to the sense of awful reality
and fatality.

The advance of the victorious King Henry made no difference to the continuousness of the frightful
dance; nay, it was plain that he was but in the presence of a monarch yet more victorious than
himself, and the mazes wound on, the performers being evidently no phantoms, but as substantial
as those who beheld them; nay, the grisly ring began to absorb the royal suite within itself,
and an awe-stricken silence prevailed--at least, where Malcolm Stewart and Ralf Percy were
riding together.

Neither lad durst ask the other what it meant.  They thought they knew too well.  Percy ceased
not for one moment to cross himself, and mutter invocations to the saints; Malcolm's memory
and tongue alike seemed inert and paralyzed with horror--his brain was giddy, his eyes stretched
open; and when Death suddenly turned and darted in his direction, one horrible gush of thought--'Fallen,
fallen!  Lost, lost!  No confession!'--came over him; he would have sobbed out an entreaty
for mercy and for a priest, but it became a helpless shriek; and while Percy's sword flashed
before his eyes, he felt himself falling, death-stricken, to the earth, and knew no more.

'There--he moved,' said a voice above him.

'How now, Glenuskie?' cried Ralf Percy.  'Look up; I verily thought you were sped by Death
in bodily shape; but 'twas all an abominable grisly pageant got up by some dismal caitiffs.'

'It was the Danse Macabre,' added the sweet tone that did indeed unclose Malcolm's eyes, to
see Esclairmonde bending over him, and holding wine to his lips.  Ralf raised him that he might
swallow it, and looking round, he saw that he was in a small wainscoted chamber, with an old
burgher woman, Ralf Percy, and Esclairmonde; certainly not in the other world.  He strove to
ask 'what it meant,' and Esclairmonde spoke again:

'It is the Danse Macabre; I have seen it in Holland.  It was invented as a warning to those
of sinful life, and this good woman tells me it has become the custom to enact it every evening
at this churchyard of the Holy Innocents.'

'A custom I devoutly hope King Harry will break!' exclaimed Ralf.  'If not, I'll some day find
the way between those painted ribs of Monseigneur de la Mort, I can tell him!  I had nearly
given him a taste of my sword as it was, only some Gascon rogue caught my arm, and he was off
ere I could get free.  So I jumped off, that your poor corpse should not be trodden by French
heels; and I hardly know how it was, but the Lady Esclairmonde was by my side as I dragged
you out, and caused these good folks to let me bring you in behind their shop.'

'Lady, lady, I am for ever beholden,' cried Malcolm, gathering himself up as if to fall at
her feet, and his heart bounding high with joy, for this was from death to life indeed.

'I saw there was some one hurt,' said Esclairmonde in her repressive manner.  'Drink some more
wine, eat this bread, and you will be able to ride to the Hotel de St. Pol.'

'Oh, lady, let me speak of my bliss!' and he snatched at her hand, but was still so dizzy that
he sank back, becoming aware that he was stiff and bruised from his fall.  Almost at the same
moment a new step and voice were heard in the little open booth where the cutler displayed
his wares, and King James was at once admitted.

'How goes it, laddie?' he asked.  'They told me grim Death had clutched you and borne you off
to his charnel-house; but at least I see an angel has charge of you.'

Esclairmonde slightly coloured as she made answer:

'I saw some one fall, and came to offer my poor skill, Sir; but as the Sieur de Glenuskie is
fast recovering, if you will permit Sir Nigel Baird to attend me, Sir, I will at once return.'

'I am ready--I am not hurt.  Oh, let us go together!' panted Malcolm, leaping up.

'Eh, gentlemen!' exclaimed the hospitable cutler's wife; 'you will not away so fast!  This
gallant knight will permit you to remain.  And the fair lady, she will do me the honour to
drink a cup of wine to the recovery of her betrothed.'

'Not so, good woman,' said Esclairmonde, a little apart, 'I am the betrothed of Heaven.  I
only assisted because I feared the youth's fall was more serious than it proves.'

The bourgeoise begged pardon, and made a curtsey; there was nothing unusual in the avowal the
lady had made, when the convent was a thoroughly recognized profession; but Esclairmonde could
not carry out her purpose of departing separately with old Sir Nigel Baird; Malcolm was on
his feet, quite ready to mount, and there was no avoiding the being assisted to her saddle
by any but the King, who was in truth quite as objectionable a companion, as far as appearances
went, for a young solitary maiden, as was Malcolm himself.  Esclairmonde felt that her benevolence
might have led her into a scrape.  When she had seen the fall, knowing that to the unprepared
the ghastly pageant must seem reality, she had obeyed the impulse to hurry to the rescue, to
console and aid in case of injury, and she had not even perceived that her female companions
did not attempt to accompany her.  However, the mischance could best be counteracted by simplicity
and unconsciousness; so, as she found herself obliged to ride by the King, she unconcernedly
observed that these fantastic dances might perhaps arouse sinners, but that they were a horrible
sight for the unprepared.

'Very like a dream becoming flesh and blood,' said James.  'We in advance were slow to perceive
what it was, and then the King merely thought whether it would alarm the Queen.'

'I trow it did not.'

'No; the thing has not been found that will stir her placid face.  She merely said it was very
lugubrious, and an ill turn in the Parisians thus to greet her, but they were always senseless
betes; and he, being relieved of care for her, looked with all his eyes, with a strange mixture
of drollery at the antics and the masques, yet of grave musing at the likeness to this present
life.'

'I think,' said Esclairmonde, 'that King Henry is one of the few men to whom the spectacle
is a sermon.  He laughs even while he lays a thing to heart.'

These few sentences had brought them to the concourse around the gateway of the great Hotel
de St. Pol, in whose crowded courtyard Esclairmonde had to dismount; and, after being handed
through the hall by King James, to make her way to the ladies' apartments, and there find out,
what she was most anxious about, how Alice, who had been riding at some distance from her with
her father, had fared under the alarm.

Alice ran up to her eagerly.  'Ah, dear Clairette, and was he greatly hurt?'

'Not much; he had only swooned for fright.'

'Swooned! to be a prince, and not have the heart of a midge!'

'And how was it with you, you very wyvern for courage?'

'With me?  Oh, I was somewhat appalled at first, when my father took hold of my rein, and bade
me never fear; for I saw his face grow amazed.  Sir Richard Nevil rode up on the other side,
and said the hobgoblins should eat out his heart ere they hurt me; and I looked into his face
as he said that, and liked it more than ever I thought to like any but yours, Clairette.  I
think my father was going to leave me to him and see whether the King needed some one to back
him; but up came a French lord, and said 'twas all a mere show, and my father said he was glad
I was a stout-hearted wench that had never cried out for fear; and then I was so pleased, that
I never heeded the ugly sight any more.  Ay, and when Sir Richard lifted me off my horse, he
kissed my hand of his own accord.'

'This is all he has ever said to you?' said Esclairmonde, smiling.  'It is like an Englishman--to
the purpose.'

'Yea, is it not?  Oh! is it not better than all the fine speeches and compliments that Joan
Beaufort gets from her Scottish king?'

'They have truths in them too, child.'

'Ay; but too fine-spun, too minstrel-like, for a plain English maid.  The hobgoblins should
eat out his heart ere they touched me!' she repeated to herself, as though the saying were
the most poetical concert sung on minstrel lover's lute.

Death's Dance had certainly brought this affianced pair to a better understanding than all
the gayest festivities of the Court.

Esclairmonde would have been happy if no one had noticed her benevolence to the young Scot
save Alice Montagu; but she had to endure countless railleries from every lady, from Countess
Jaqueline downwards, on the unmistakable evidence that her heart had spoken; and her grave
dignity had less effect in silencing them than usual, so diverting was the alleged triumph
over her propriety, well as they knew that she would have done the same for the youngest horse-boy,
or the oldest man-at-arms.

CHAPTER X: THE WHITSUNTIDE FESTIVAL

'Lady, fairest lady!  Ah, suffer your slave to fall at your feet with his thanks!'

'No thanks are due, Sir.  I knew not who had fallen.'

'Cruel coyness!  Take not away the joy that has fed a hungry heart.'

'Lord Glenuskie's heart was wont to hunger for better joys.'

'Lady, I have ceased to be a foolish boy.'

'Such foolishness was better than some men's wisdom.'

'Listen, belle demoiselle.  I have been forth into the world, and have learnt to see that monasteries
have become mere haunts for the sluggard, who will not face the world; and that honour, glory,
and all that is worth living for, lie beyond.  Ah, lady! those eyes first taught me what life
could give.'

'Hush, Sir!' said Esclairmonde.  'I can believe that as a child you mistook your vocation,
and the secular life may be blest to you; but with me it can never be so; and if any friendship
were shown to you on my part, it was when I deemed that we were brother and sister in our vows.
If I unwittingly inspired any false hopes, I must do penance for the evil.'

'Call it not evil, lady,' entreated Malcolm.  'It cannot be evil to have wakened me to life
and hope and glory.'

'What should you call it in him who should endeavour to render Lady Joan Beaufort faithless
to your king, Lord Malcolm?  What then must it be to tempt another to break troth-plight to
the King of Heaven?'

'Nay, madame,' faltered Malcolm; 'but if such troth were forbidden and impossible?'

'None has the right or power to cancel mine,' replied the lady.

'Yet,' he still entreated, 'your kindred are mighty.'

'But my Bridegroom is mightier,' she said.

'O lady, yet--Say, at least,' cried Malcolm, eagerly, 'that were you free in your own mind
to wed, at least you would less turn from me than from the others proposed to you.'

'That were saying little for you,' said Esclairmonde, half smiling.  'But, Sir,' she added
gravely, 'you have no right to put the question; and I will say nothing on which you can presume.'

'You were kinder to me in England,' sighed Malcolm, with tears in his eyes.

'Then you seemed as one like-minded,' she answered.

'And,' he cried, gathering fresh ardour, 'I would be like-minded again. You would render me
so, sweetest lady.  I would kiss your every step, pray with you, bestow alms with you, found
churches, endow your Beguines, and render our change from our childish purpose a blessing to
the whole world; become your very slave, to do your slightest bidding.  O lady, could I but
give you my eyes to see what it might be!'

'It could not be, if we began with a burthened conscience,' said Esclairmonde.  'We have had
enough of this, Sieur de Glenuskie.  You know that with me it is no matter of likes or dislikes,
but that I am under a vow, which I will never break!  Make way, Sir.'

He could but obey: she was far too majestic and authoritative to be gainsaid.  And Malcolm,
in an access of misery, stood lost to all the world, kneeling in the window-seat, where she
had left him resting his head against the glass, when suddenly a white plump hand was laid
on his shoulder, and a gay voice cried:

'All a la mort, my young damoiseau!  What, has our saint been unpropitious?  Never mind, you
shall have her yet.  We will see her like the rest of the world, ere we have done within her!'

And Malcolm found himself face to face with the free-spoken Jaqueline of Hainault.

'You are very good, madame,' he stammered.

'You shall think me very good yet!  I have no notion of being opposed by a little vassal of
mine; and we'll succeed, if it were but for the fun of the thing!  Monseigneur de Therouenne
is on your side, or would be, if he were sure of the Duke of Burgundy.  You see, these prelates
hate nothing so much as the religious orders; and all the pride of the Luxemburgs is in arms
against Clairette's fancy for those beggarly nursing Sisters; so it drives him mad to hear
her say she only succoured you for charity.  He thinks it a family disgrace, that can only
be wiped off by marrying her to you; and he would do it bon gre, mal gre, but that he waits
to hear what Burgundy will say.  You have only to hold out, and she shall be yours, if I hold
her finger while you put on the ring.  Only let us be sure of Burgundy.'

This was not a very flattering way of obtaining a bride; but Malcolm was convinced that when
once married to Esclairmonde, his devotion would atone to her for all that was unpleasant in
obtaining her.  At least, she loved no one else; she had even allowed that she had once thought
him like-minded; she had formerly distinguished him; and nothing lay between them but her scruples;
and when they were overcome, by whatever means, his idol would be his, to adore, to propitiate,
to win by the most intense devotion.  All now must, however, turn upon the Duke of Burgundy,
without whose sanction Madame of Hainault would be afraid to act openly.

The Duke was expected at Paris for the Whitsuntide festival, which was to be held with great
state.  The custom was for the Kings of France to feast absolutely with all Paris, with interminable
banquet tables, open to the whole world without question.  And to this Henry had conformed
on his first visit to the city; but he had learnt that the costly and lavish feast had been
of very little benefit to the really distressed, who had been thrust aside by loud-voiced miscreants
and sturdy beggars, such as had no shame in driving the feeble back with blows, and receiving
their own share again and again.

By the advice of Dr. Bennet, his almoner, he was resolved that this should not happen again;
that the feast should be limited to the official guests, and that the cost of the promiscuous
banquet should be distributed to those who really needed it, and who should be reached through
their parish priests and the friars known to be most charitable.

Dr. Bennet, as almoner, with the other chaplains, was to arrange the matter; and horrible was
the distress that he discovered in the city, that had for five-and-twenty years been devastated
by civil fury, as well as by foreign wars; and famines, pestilences, murders, and tyrannies
had held sway, so as to form an absolute succession of reigns of terror.  The poor perished
like flies in a frost; the homeless orphans of the parents murdered by either faction roamed
the streets, and herded in the corners like the vagrant dogs of Eastern cities; and meantime,
the nobles and their partisans revelled in wasteful pomp.

Scholar as he was, Dr. Bennet was not familiar enough with Parisian ways not to be very grateful
for aid from Esclairmonde in some of his conferences, and for her explanations of the different
tastes and needs of French and English poor.

What she saw and heard, on the other hand, gave form and purpose to her aspirations.  The Dutch
Sisters of St. Bega, the English Bedeswomen of St. Katharine, were sorely needed at Paris.
They would gather up the sufferers, collect the outcast children, feed the hungry, follow with
balm wherever a wound had been.  To found a Beguinage at Paris seemed to her the most befitting
mode of devoting her wealth; and her little admirer, Alice, gave up her longing desire that
the foundation should be in England, when she learned that, as the wife of Nevil, her abode
was likely to be in France as long as that country required English garrisons.

To the young heiress of Salisbury, her own marriage, though close at hand, seemed a mere ordinary
matter compared with Esclairmonde's Beguinage, to her the real romance.  Never did she see
a beggar crouching at the church door, without a whisper to herself that there was a subject
for the Beguines; and, tender-hearted as she was, she looked quite gratified at any lamentable
tale which told the need.

If Esclairmonde had a climax to her visions of her brown-robed messengers of mercy, it was
that the holy Canon of St. Agnes should be induced to come and act the part of master to her
bedeswomen, as did Master Kedbesby at home.

She had even dared to murmur her design to Dr. Bennet; and when he, under strict seal of secrecy,
had sounded King Henry, the present real master of Paris, he reported that the tears had stood
in the King's eyes for a moment, as he said, 'Blessings on the maiden!  Should she be able
to do this for this city, I shall know that Heaven hath indeed sent a blessing by my arms!'

For one brief week, Esclairmonde and Alice were very happy in this secret hope; but at the
end of that time the Bishop of Therouenne appeared. Esclairmonde had ventured to hope that
the King's influence, and likewise the fact that her intention was not to enrich one of the
regular monastic orders, might lead him to lend a favourable ear to her scheme; but she was
by no means prepared to find him already informed of the affair of the Dance of Death, and
putting his own construction on it.

'So, my fair cousin, this is the end of your waywardness.  The tokens were certainly somewhat
strong; but the young gentleman's birth being equal to yours, after the spectacle you have
presented, your uncle of St. Pol, and I myself, must do our utmost to obtain the consent of
the Duke of Burgundy.'

'Monseigneur is mistaken,' said Esclairmonde.

'Child, we will have no more folly.  You have flown after this young Scot in a manner fitted
only for the foolish name your father culled for you out of his books of chivalry.  You have
given a lesson to the whole Court and city on the consequences of a damsel judging for herself,
and running a mad course over the world, instead of submitting to her guardians.'

'The Court understands my purpose as well as you do, Monseigneur.'

'Silence, Mademoiselle.  Your convent obstinacy is ended for ever now, since to send you to
one would be to appear to hide a scandal.'

'I do not wish to enter a convent,' said Esclairmonde.  'My desire is to dedicate my labour
and my substance to the foundation of a house here at Paris, such as are the Beguinages of
our Netherlands,'

The Bishop held up his hands.  He had never heard of such lunacy and it angered him, as such
purposes are wont to anger worldly-hearted men.  That a lady of Luxemburg should have such
vulgar tastes as to wish to be a Beguine was bad enough; but that Netherlandish wealth should
be devoted to support the factious poor of Paris was preposterous.  Neither the Duke of Burgundy,
nor her uncle of St. Pol, would allow a sou to pass out of their grasp for so absurd a purpose;
the Pope would give no license--above all to a vain girl, who had helped a wife to run away
from her husband--for new religious houses; and, unless Esclairmonde was prepared to be landless,
penniless, and the scorn of every one, for her wild behaviour, she must submit, bon gre, mal
gre, to become the wife of the Scottish prince.

'Landless and penniless then will I be, Monseigneur,' said Esclairmonde. 'Was not poverty the
bride of St. Francis?'

The Bishop made a growl of contempt; but recollecting himself, and his respect for the saint,
began to argue that what was possible for a man, a mere merchant's son, an inspired saint besides,
was not possible to a damsel of high degree, and that it was mere presumption, vanity, and
obstinacy in her to appeal to such a precedent.

There was something in this that struck Esclairmonde, for she was conscious of a certain satisfaction
in her plan of being the first to introduce a Beguinage at Paris, and that she was to a certain
degree proud of her years of constancy to her high purpose; and she looked just so far abashed
that the uncle saw his advantage, and discoursed on the danger of attempting to be better than
other people, and of trying to vapour in spiritual heights, to all of which she attempted no
reply; till at last he broke up the interview by saying, 'There, then, child; all will be well.
I see you are coming to a better mind.'

'I hope I am, Monseigneur,' she replied, with lofty meekness; 'but scarcely such as you mean.'

Alice Montagu's indignation knew no bounds.  What! was this noble votaress to be forced, not
only to resign the glory of being the foundress of a new order of beneficence, but to be married,
just like everybody else, and to that wretched little coward?  Boemond of Burgundy was better
than that, for he at least was a man!

'No, no, Alice,' said Esclairmonde, with a shudder; 'any one rather than the Burgundian!  It
is shame even to compare the Scot!'

'He may not be so evil in himself,' said Alice; 'but with a brave man you have only his own
sins, while a coward has all those other people may frighten him into.'

'He bore himself manfully in battle,' said the fair Fleming in reproof.

But Alice answered with the scorn that sits so quaintly on the gentle daughter of a bold race:
'Ay, where he would have been more afraid to run than to stand.'

'You are hard on the Scot,' said Esclairmonde.  'Maybe it is because the Nevils of Raby are
Borderers,' she added, smiling; and, as Alice likewise smiled and blushed, 'Now, if it were
not for this madness, I could like the youth.  I would fain have had him for a brother that
I could take care of.'

'But what will you do, Esclairmonde?'

'Trust,' said she, sighing.  'Maybe, my pride ought to be broken; and I may have to lay aside
all my hopes and plans, and become a mere serving sister, to learn true humility.  Anyhow,
I verily trust to my Heavenly Spouse to guard me for himself.  If the Duke of Burgundy still
maintains Boemond's suit, then in the dissension I see an escape.

'And my father will defend you; and so will Sir Richard,' said Alice, with complacent certainty
in their full efficiency.  'And King Harry will interfere; and we will have your hospital;
ay, we will.  How can you talk so lightly of abandoning it?'

'I only would know what is human pride, and what God's will,' sighed Esclairmonde.

The Duke arrived with his two sisters, his wife being left at home in bad health, and took
up his abode at the Hotel de Bourgogne, whence he came at once to pay his respects to the King
of England; the poor King of France, at the Hotel de St. Pol, being quite neglected.

Esclairmonde and Alice stood at a window, and watched the arrival of the magnificent cavalcade,
attended by a multitude, ecstatically shouting, 'Noel Noel!  Long live Philippe le Bon!  Blessings
on the mighty Duke!' While seated on a tall charger, whose great dappled head, jewelled and
beplumed, could alone be seen amid his sweeping housings, bowing right and left, waving his
embroidered gloved hand in courtesy, was seen the stately Duke, in the prime of life, handsome-faced,
brilliantly coloured, dazzlingly arrayed in gemmed robes, so that Alice drew a long breath
of wonder and exclaimed, 'This Duke is a goodly man; he looks like the emperor of us all!'

But when he had entered the hall, conducted by John of Bedford and Edmund of March, had made
his obeisance to Henry, and had been presented by him to King James, Alice, standing close
behind her queen, recollected that she had once heard Esclairmonde say, 'Till I came to England
I deemed chivalry a mere gaudy illusion.'

Duke Philippe would not bear close inspection; the striking features and full red lips, that
had made so effective an appearance in the gay procession seen from a distance, seemed harsh,
haughty, and sensual near at hand, and when brought into close contact with the strange bright
stern purity, now refined into hectic transparency, of King Henry's face, the grand and melancholy
majesty of the royal Stewart's, or even the spare, keen, irregular visage of John of Bedford.
And while his robes were infinitely more costly than--and his ornaments tenfold outnumbered--all
that the three island princes wore, yet no critical eye could take him for their superior,
even though his tone in addressing an inferior was elaborately affable and condescending, and
theirs was always the frankness of an equal.  Where they gave the sense of pure gold, he seemed
like some ruder metal gilt and decorated; as if theirs were reality, his the imitation; theirs
the truth, his the display.

But in reality his birth was as princely as theirs; and no monarch in Europe, not even Henry,
equalled him in material resources; he was idolized by the Parisians; and Henry was aware that
France had been made over to England more by his revenge for his father's murder at Montereau
than by the victory at Agincourt.  Therefore the King endured his grand talk about our arms
and our intentions; and for Malcolm's sake, James submitted to a sort of patronage, as if meant
to imply that if Philippe the Magnificent chose to espouse the cause of a captive king, his
ransom would be the merest trifle.

When Henry bade him to the Pentecostal banquet, 'when kings keep state,' he graciously accepted
the invitation for himself and his two sisters, Marguerite, widow of the second short-lived
Dauphin, and Anne, still unmarried; but when Henry further explained his plan of feasting merely
with the orderly, and apportioning the food in real alms, the Duke by no means approved.

'Feed those miserables!' he said.  'One gains nothing thereby!  They make no noise; whereas
if you affront the others, who know how to cry out, they will revile you like dogs!

'I will not be a slave to the rascaille,' said Henry.

'Ah, my fair lord, you, a victor, may dispense with these cares; but for a poor little prince
like me, it is better to reign in men's hearts than on their necks.'

'In the hearts of honest men--on the necks of knaves,' said Henry.

Philippe shrugged his shoulders.  He was wise in his own generation; for he had all the audible
voices in Paris on his side, while the cavils at Henry's economy have descended to the present
time.

'Do you see your rival, Sir?' said the voice of the Bishop of Therouenne in Malcolm's ear,
just as the Duke had begun to rise to take leave; and he pointed out a knight of some thirty
years, glittering with gay devices from head to foot, and showing a bold proud visage, exaggerating
the harshness of the Burgundian lineaments.

Malcolm shuddered, and murmured, 'Such a pearl to such a hog!'

And meanwhile, King James, stepping forward, intimated to the Duke that he would be glad of
an interview with him.

Philippe made some ostentation of his numerous engagements with men of Church and State; but
ended by inviting the King of Scotland to sup with him that evening, if his Grace would forgive
travellers' fare and a simple reception.

Thither accordingly James repaired on foot, attended only by Sir Nigel and Malcolm, with a
few archers of the royal guard, in case torches should be wanted on the way home.

How magnificent were the surroundings of the great Duke, it would be wearisome to tell.  The
retainers in the court of the hotel looked, as James said, as if honest steel and good cloth
were reckoned as churls, and as if this were the very land of Cockaigne, as Sir Richard Whittington
had dreamt it.  Neither he nor St. Andrew himself would know their own saltire made in cloth
of silver, 'the very metal to tarnish!'

Sir Nigel had to tell their rank, ere the porters admitted the small company: but the seneschal
marshalled them forward in full state.  And James never looked more the king than when, in
simple crimson robe, the pure white cross on his breast, his auburn hair parted back from his
noble brow, he stood towering above all heads, passively receiving the Duke of Burgundy's elaborate
courtesies and greetings, nor seeming to note the lavish display of gold and silver, meant
to amaze the poorest king in Europe.

Exceeding was the politeness shown to him--even to the omission of the seneschal's tasting
each dish presented to the Duke, a recognition of the presence of a sovereign that the two
Scots scarcely understood enough for gratitude.

Malcolm was the best off of the two at the supper; for James had of course to be cavalier to
the sickly fretful-looking Dauphiness, while Malcolm fell to the lot of the Lady Anne, who,
though not beautiful, had a kindly hearty countenance and manner, and won his heart by asking
whether the Demoiselle de Luxemburg were still in the suite of Madame of Hainault; and then
it appeared that she had been her convent mate and warmest friend and admirer in their girlish
days at Dijon, and was now longing to see her.  Was she as much set as ever on being a nun?

Meantime, the Duke was pompously making way for the King of Scots to enter his cabinet, where--with
a gold cup before each, a dish of comfits and a stoup of wine between them--their interview
was to take place.

'These dainties accord with a matter of ladies' love,' said James, as the Duke handed him a
sugar heart transfixed by an arrow.

'Good, good,' said Philippe.  'The alliance is noble and our crowns and influence might be
a good check in the north to your mighty neighbour; nor would I be hard as to her dowry.  Send
me five score yearly of such knaves as came with Buchan, and I could fight the devil himself.
A morning gift might be specified for the name of the thing--but we understand one another.'

'I am not certain of that, Sir,' said James, smiling; 'though I see you mean me kindly.'

'Nay, now,' continued Philippe, 'I know how to honour royalty, even in durance; nor will I
even press Madame la Dauphine on you instead of Anne, though it were better for us all if she
could have her wish and become a queen, and you would have her jointure--if you or any one
else can get it.'

'Stay, my Lord Duke,' said James, with dignity, 'I spake not of myself, deeming that it was
well known that my troth is plighted.'

'How?' said Burgundy, amazed, but not offended.  'Methought the House of Somerset was a mere
bastard slip, with which even King Henry with all his insolence could not expect you to wed
in earnest.  However, we may keep our intentions secret awhile; and then, with your lances
and my resources, English displeasure need concern you little.'

James, who had learned self-control in captivity, began politely to express himself highly
honoured and obliged.

'Do not mention it.  Royal blood, thus shamefully oppressed, must command the aid of all that
is chivalrous.  Speak, and your ransom is at your service.'

The hot blood rushed into James's cheek at this tone of condescension; but he answered, with
courteous haughtiness: 'Of myself, Sir Duke, there is no question.  My ransom waits England's
willingness to accept it; and my hand is not free, even for the prize you have the goodness
to offer.  I came not to speak of myself.'

'Not to make suit for my sister, nor my intercession!' exclaimed Philippe.

'I make suit to no man,' said James; then, recollecting himself, 'if I did so, no readier friend
than the Duke of Burgundy could be found.  I did in effect come to propose an alliance between
one of my own house and a fair vassal of yours.'

'Ha! the runaway jade of Luxemburg!' cried Burgundy; 'the most headstrong girl who lives! 
She dared to plead her foolish vows against my brother Boemond, fled with that other hoyden
of Hainault, and now defies me by coming here.  I'll have her, and make her over to Boemond
to tame her pride, were she in the great Satan's camp instead of King Henry's.'

And this is the mirror of chivalry! thought James.  But he persevered in his explanation of
his arrangement for permitting the estates of Esclairmonde de Luxemburg to be purchased from
her and her husband, should that husband be Malcolm Stewart of Glenuskie; and he soon found
that these terms would be as acceptable to the Duke as they had already proved to her guardian,
Monseigneur de Therouenne.  Money was nothing to Philippe; but his policy was to absorb the
little seignoralties that lay so thick in these border lands of the Empire; and what he desired
above all, was to keep them from either passing into the hands of the Church, or from consolidating
into some powerful principality, as would have been the case had Esclairmonde either entered
a convent or married young Waleran de Luxemburg, her cousin.  Therefore he had striven to force
on her his half-brother, who would certainly never unite any inheritance to hers; but he much
preferred the purchase of her Hainault lands; and had no compunction in throwing over Boemond,
except for a certain lurking desire that the lady's contumacy should be chastised by a lord
who would beat her well into subjection.  He would willingly have made a great show of generosity,
and have laid James under an obligation; and yet by the King's dignified tone of courtesy he
was always reduced to the air of one soliciting rather than conferring a favour.

Finally, Malcolm was called in, and presented to the Duke, making his own promise on his word
of honour as a prince, and giving a written bond, that so soon as he obtained the hand of the
Demoiselle de Luxemburg he would resign her Hainault estates to the Duke of Burgundy for a
sum of money, to be fixed by persons chosen for the purpose.

This was more like earnest than anything Malcolm had yet obtained; and he went home exulting
and exalted, his doubts as to Esclairmonde's consent almost silenced, when he counted up the
forces that were about to bear upon her.

And they did descend upon her.  Countess Jaqueline had been joined by other and more congenial
Flemish dames, and was weary of her grave monitress; and she continually scolded at Esclairmonde
for perverseness and obstinacy in not accepting the only male thing she had ever favoured.
The Bishop of Therouenne threatened and argued; and the Duke of Burgundy himself came to enforce
his commands to his refractory vassal, and on finding her still unsubmissive, flew into a rage,
and rated her as few could have done, save Philippe, called the Good.

All she attempted to answer was, that they were welcome to her lands, so they would leave her
person free; her vows were not to man, but to God, and God would protect her.

It was an answer that seemed specially to enrage her persecutors, who retorted by telling her
that such protection was only extended to those who obeyed lawful authority; and hints were
thrown out that, if she did not submit willingly, she might find herself married forcibly,
for a bishop could afford to disregard the resistance of a bride.

Would Malcolm--would his king--consent to her being thus treated?

As to Malcolm, he seemed to her too munch changed for her to reckon on what remnant of good
feeling there might be to appeal to in him.  And James, though he was certain not to permit
palpable coercion in his presence, or even if he were aware that it was contemplated, seemed
to have left the whole management of the affair to Esclairmonde's own guardians; and they would
probably avoid driving matters to extremities that would revolt him, while he was near enough
for an appeal.  And Esclairmonde was too uncertain whether her guardians would resort to such
lengths, or whether it were not a vain threat of the giddy Countess, to compromise her dignity
by crying out before she was hurt; and she had no security, save that she was certain that
in the English household of King Henry such violence would not be attempted; and out of reach
of that protection she never ventured.

Once she said to Henry, 'My only hope is in God and in you, my lord.'

And Henry bent his head, saying, 'Noble lady, I cannot interfere; but while you are in my house,
nothing can be done with you against your will.'

Yet even Henry was scarcely what he had been in all-pervading vigilance and readiness.  Like
all real kings of men, he had been his own prime minister, commander-in-chief, and private
secretary, transacting a marvellous amount of business with prompt completeness; and when,
in the midst of shattered health which he would not avow, the cares of two kingdoms, and the
generalship of an army, with all its garrisons, rested on him, his work would hardly have been
accomplished but for his brother's aid.  It was never acknowledged, often angrily disdained.
But when John of Bedford had watched the terrible lassitude and lethargy that weighed on the
King at times in the midst of his cabinet work, he was constantly on the watch to relieve him;
and his hand and style so closely resembled Henry's that the difference could scarce be detected,
and he could do what none other durst attempt.  Many a time would Henry, whose temper had grown
most uncertain, fiercely rate him for intermeddling; but John knew and loved him too well to
heed; and his tact and unobtrusiveness made Henry rely on him more and more.

If the illness had only been confessed, those who watched the King anxiously would have had
more hope; but he was hotly angered at any hint of his needing care; and though he sometimes
relieved oppression by causing himself to be bled by a servant, he never allowed that anything
ailed him; it was always the hot weather, the anxious tidings, the long pageant that wearied
him--things that were wont to be like gnats on a lion's mane.

Those solemn banquets and festivals--lasting from forenoon till eventide, with their endless
relays of allegorical subtleties, their long-winded harangues, noisy music, interludes of giants,
sylvan men, distressed damsels, knights-errant on horseback, ships and forests coming in upon
wheels, and fulsome compliments that must be answered--had been always his aversion, and were
now so heavy an oppression that Bedford would have persuaded the Queen to curtail them.  But
to the fair Catherine this appeared an unkind endeavour of her disagreeable brother-in-law,
to prevent her from shining in her native city, and eclipsing the Burgundian pomp; and she
opened her soft brown eyes in dignified displeasure, answering that she saw nothing amiss with
the King; and she likewise complained to her husband of his brother's jealousy of her welcome
from her own people, bringing on him one of Henry's most bitter sentences.

Henry would only have had her abate somewhat of the splendour that gratified her, because he
did not think it becoming to outshine her parents; but Catherine scorned the notion.  Her old
father would know nothing, or would smile in his foolish way to see her so brave; and for her
mother, she recked not so long as she had a larded capon before her: nor was it possible to
make the young queen understand that this fatuity and feebleness were the very reasons for
deferring to them.

The ordering of the feast fell to Catherine and her train; and its splendours on successive
days had their full development, greatly to the constraint and weariness, among others, of
Esclairmonde, who was always assigned to Malcolm Stewart, and throughout these long days had
to be constantly repressing him; not that he often durst make her any direct compliment, for
he was usually quelled into anxious wistful silence, and merely eyed her earnestly, paying
her every attention in his power.  And such a silent tedious meal was sure to be remarked,
either with laughing rudeness by Countess Jaqueline, or with severe reproof by the Bishop of
Therouenne, both of whom assured her that she had better lay aside her airs, and resign herself
in good part, for there was no escape for her.

One day, however, when the feast was at the Hotel de Bourgogne, and there were some slight
differences in the order of the guests, the Duke of Bedford put himself forward as the Lady
Esclairmonde's cavalier, so much to her relief, that her countenance, usually so guarded, relaxed
into the bright, sweet smile of cheerfulness that was most natural to her. Isolated as the
pairs at the table were, and with music braying in a gallery just above, there was plenty of
scope for conversation; and once again Esclairmonde was talking freely of the matters regarding
the distress in Paris, that Bedford had consulted her upon before he became so engrossed with
his brother's affairs, or she so beset by her persecutors.

Towards the evening, when the feast had still some mortal hours to last, there fell a silence
on the Duke; and at length, when the music was at the loudest, he said 'Lady, I have watched
for this moment.  You are persecuted.  Look not on me as one of your persecutors; but if no
other refuge be open to you, here is one who might know better how to esteem you than that
malapert young Scot.'

'How, Sir?' exclaimed Esclairmonde, amazed at these words from the woman- hating Bedford.

'Make no sudden reply,' said John.  'I had never thought of you save as one consecrate, till,
when I see you like to be hunted down into the hands of yon silly lad, I cannot but thrust
between.  My brother would willingly consent; and, if I may but win your leave to love you,
lady, it will be with a heart that has yearned to no other woman.'

He spoke low and steadily, looking straight before him, with no visible emotion, save a little
quiver in the last sentence, a slight dilating of the delicately cut nostril; and then he was
silent, until, having recovered the self-restraint that had been failing him, he prevented
the words she was trying to form by saying, 'Not in haste, lady.  There is time yet before
you to bethink yourself whether you can be free in will and conscience.  If so, I will bear
you through all.'

How invitingly the words fell on the lonely heart, so long left to fight its own battles! 
There came for the first time the full sense of what life might be, the shielding tenderness,
the sure reliance, the pure affection, such as she saw Henry lavish on the shallow Queen, but
which she could meet and requite in John.  The brutal Boemond, the childish Malcolm, had aroused
no feeling in her but dislike or pity, and to them a convent was infinitely preferable; but
Bedford--the religious, manly, brave, unselfish Bedford--opened to her the view of all that
could content a high-souled woman's heart, backed, moreover, by the wonder of having been the
first to touch such a spirit.

It would not have been a mesalliance.  Her family was one of the grandest of the Netherlands;
the saintly Emperor, Henry of Luxemburg, was her ancestor; and Bedford's proposal was not a
condescension such as to rouse her sense of dignity.  His rank did not strike her as did his
lofty stainless character; the like of which she had never known to exist in the world of active
life till she saw the brothers of England, who came more near to the armed saints and holy
warriors of Church legend than her fancy had thought mortal man could do, bred as she had been
in the sensual, violent, and glittering Burgundy of the fifteenth century.  In truth, as Malcolm
had thought the cloister the only refuge from the harshness and barbarism of Scotland, so Esclairmonde
had thought piety and purity to be found nowhere else; and both had found the Court of Henry
V. an infinitely better world than they had supposed possible; but, until the present moment,
Esclairmonde had never felt the slightest call to take a permanent place there.  Now however
the cloister, even if it were open to her, presented a gloomy, cheerless life of austerity,
in comparison with human affection and matronly duty.  And most vivid of all at the moment
was the desire to awaken the tender sweetness that slept in those steady gray eyes, to see
the grave, wise visage gleam with smiling affection, and to rest in having one to take thought
for her, and finish this long term of tossing about and self-defence.  Was not the patience
with which he kept his eyes away from her already a proof of his consideration and delicate
kindness?

But deep in Esclairmonde's soul lay the sense that her dedication was sacred, and her power
over herself gone.  She had always felt a wife's allegiance due to Him whom she received as
her spiritual Spouse; and though the sense at this moment only brought her disappointment and
self- reproach, her will was loyal.  The bond was cutting into her very flesh, but she never
even thought of breaking it; and all she waited for was the power of restraining her grateful
tears.

In this she was assisted by observing that Bedford's attention had been attracted towards his
brother, who was looking wan and weary, scarcely tasting what was set before him; and, after
fitfully trying to converse with Marguerite of Burgundy, at last had taken advantage of an
endless harangue from all the Virtues, and had dropped asleep.  The Lady Anne was seen making
a sign to her sister not to disturb him; and Bedford murmured, with a sigh, 'There is, for
once, a discreet woman.'  Then, as if recalled to a sense of what was passing, he turned on
Esclairmonde his full earnest look, saying, 'You will teach the Queen how he should be cared
for.  You will help me.'

'Sir,' said Esclairmonde, feeling it most difficult not to falter, 'this is a great grace,
but it cannot be.'

'Cannot!' said Bedford, slowly.  'You have taken thought?'

'Sir, it is not the part of a betrothed spouse to take thought.  My vows were renewed of my
own free will and it were sacrilege to try to recall them for the first real temptation.'

She spoke steadily, but the effort ached through her whole frame, especially when the last
word illumined John Plantagenet's face with strange sweet light, quenched as his lip trembled,
his nostril quivered, his eye even moistened, as he said, 'It is enough, lady; I will no more
vex one who is vexed enough already; and you will so far trust me as to regard me as your protector,
if you should be in need?'

'Indeed I will,' said Esclairmonde, hardly restraining her tears.

'That is well,' said Bedford.  And he neither looked at her nor spoke to her again, till, as
he led her away in the procession from the hall, he held her hand fast, and murmured: 'There
then it rests, sweet lady unless, having taken counsel with your own heart, you should change
your decree, and consult some holy priest.  If so, make but a sign of the hand, and I am yours;
for verily you are the only maiden I could ever have loved.'

She was still in utter confusion, in the chamber where the ladies were cloaking for their return,
when her hands were grasped on either side by the two Burgundian princesses.

'Sweet runaway, we have caught you at last!  Here, into Anne's chamber. See you we must!  How
is it with you?  Like you the limping Scot better than Boemond?' laughed the Dauphiness, her
company dignity laid aside for school-girl chatter.

'If you cannot hold out,' said Anne, 'the Scot seems a gentle youth; and, at least, you are
quit of Boemond.'

'Yes,' said Marguerite, 'his last prank was too strong for the Duke: quartering a dozen men-at-arms
on a sulky Cambrai weaver till he paid him 2000 crowns.  Besides, it would be well to get the
Scottish king for an ally.  Do you know what we two are here for, Clairette?  We are both to
be betrothed: one to the handsome captive with the gold locks; the other to your hawk-nosed
neighbour, who seemed to have not a word to say.'

'But,' said Esclairmonde, replying to the easiest part of the disclosure, 'the King of Scots
is in love with the Demoiselle of Somerset.'

'What matters that, silly maid?' said Marguerite 'he does not displease me; and Anne is welcome
to that melancholy duke.'

'Oh, Lady Anne!' exclaimed Esclairmonde, 'if such be your lot, it would be well indeed.'

'What, the surly brother, of whom Catherine tells such tales!' continued Marguerite.

'Credit them not,' said Esclairmonde.  'He never crosses her but when he would open her eyes
to his brother's failing health.'

'Yes,' interrupted Marguerite; 'my lord brother swears that this king will not live a year;
and if Catherine have no better luck with her child than poor Michelle, then there will be
another good Queen Anne in England.'

'If so,' said Esclairmonde, looking at her friend with swimming eyes, 'she will have the best
of husbands--as good as even she deserves!'

Anne held her hand fast, and would have said many tender words on Esclairmonde's own troubles;
but the other ladies were arrayed, and Esclairmonde would not for worlds have been left behind
in the Hotel de Bourgogne.

Privacy was not an attainable luxury, and Esclairmonde could not commune with her throbbing
heart, or find peace for her aching head, till night. This must be a matter unconfided to any,
even Alice Montagu.  And while the maiden lay smiling in her quiet sleep, after having fondly
told her friend that Sir Richard Nevil had really noticed her new silken kirtle, she knelt
on beneath the crucifix, mechanically reciting her prayers, and, as the beads dropped from
her fingers, fighting out the fight with her own heart.

Her mind was made up; but her sense of the loss, her craving for the worthy affection which
lay within her grasp--these dismayed her.  The life she had sighed for had become a blank;
and she passionately detested the obligation that held her back from affection, usefulness,
joy, and excellence--not ambition, for the greatest help to her lay in Bedford's position,
his exalted rank, and nearness to the crown.  Indeed, she really dreaded and loathed worldly
pomp so much that the temptation would have been greater had he not been a prince.

It was this sense of renunciation that came to her aid.  She had at least a real sacrifice
to offer; till now, as she became aware, she had made none.  She folded her hands, and laid
her offering to be hallowed by the One all-sufficient Sacrifice.  She offered all those capacities
for love that had been newly revealed to her; she offered up the bliss, whose golden dawn she
had seen; she tried to tear out the earthliness of her heart and affections by the roots, and
lay them on the altar, entreating that, come what might, her spirit might never stray from
the Heavenly Spouse of her betrothal.

Therewith came a sense of His perfect sufficiency--of rest, peace, support, ineffable love,
that kept her kneeling in a calm, almost ecstatic state, in which common hopes, fears, and
affections had melted away.

CHAPTER XI: THE TWO PROMISES

After all, Alice Montagu was married almost privately, and without any preparation.  Tidings
came that the Duke of Alencon was besieging Cosne, a city belonging to the Duke of Burgundy,
and that instant relief was needed.  The Duke was urgent with Henry to save the place for him,
and set off at once to collect his brilliant chivalry; while Henry, rousing at the trumpet-call,
declared that nothing ailed him but pageants, sent orders to all his troops to collect from
different quarters, and prepared to take the command in person; while reports daily came in
of the great muster the Armagnacs were making, as though determined to offer battle.

Salisbury was determined not to abide the chances of the battle without first giving a protector
to his little daughter; and therefore, as quietly as if she had been merely going to mass,
the Lady Alice was wedded to her Sir Richard Nevil, who treated the affair as the simplest
matter of course, and troubled himself with very slight demonstrations of affection.  The wedding
took place at Senlis, whither the female part of the Court had accompanied the King, upon the
very day of the parting.  No one was present, except one of Sir Richard's brothers (the whole
family numbered twenty-two), his esquire; and on Alice's side, her father, Esclairmonde, and
a few other ladies.

At the last moment, however, the King himself came up, leaning on Warwick's arm, looking thin,
ill, and flushed, but resolved to do honour to his faithful Salisbury, at whose request he
had permitted the barony of Montagu to be at once transferred to Nevil, who would thenceforth
be called by that title.

After the ceremony, King Henry kissed the gentle bride, placed a costly ring upon her finger,
and gave his best and warmest wishes to the newly- married pair.  Little guessed any there
present what the sound of Warwick and Salisbury would be in forty years' time to the babe cradled
at Windsor.

As the King passed Esclairmonde, he paused, and said, in an undertone, 'Dear lady, deem not
that I have forgotten your holy purpose; but you understand that there are some who are jealous
of any benefit conferred on Paris save from themselves, and whose alliance I may not risk.
But if God be pleased to grant me this battle also, then, with His good pleasure, I shall not
be forced to have such respect to persons; and when I return, lady, whether the endowment come
from your bounty or no, God helping us, you shall begin the holy work of St. Katharine's bedeswomen
among the poor of Paris.'

But while Henry V., with all his grave sweetness, spoke these words to Esclairmonde de Luxemburg,
this was the farewell of Countess Jaqueline of Hainault to Malcolm Stewart:

'Look here, my languishing swain; never mind her scorn, but win your spurs in the battle that
is to be, and then make some excuse to get back again to us before the two Kings, with all
their scruples.  Then beshrew me but she shall be yours!  If Monseigneur de Therouenne and
I cannot manage one proud girl, I am not Countess of Hainault!'

This promise sent him away, planning the enjoyment of conquering Esclairmonde's long resistance,
and teaching her where to find happiness. Should he punish her, by being stern and tyrannical
at first? or should his kindness teach her to repent?  When he was a knight, he would be in
a condition to assert his authority, he thought; and of knighthood both he and Ralf Percy felt
almost certain, in that wholesale dubbing of knights that was wont to be the preliminary of
a battle.  To be sure, they had indulged in a good many unlicensed pleasures at Paris--Ralf
from sheer reckless love of sport, Malcolm in his endeavour to forget himself, and to be manly;
but they had escaped detection, and they knew plenty of young Englishmen, and many more Burgundians
and Gascons, who had plunged far deeper into mischief, and thought it no disgrace, but rather
held that there was some special dispensation for the benefit of warriors.

Malcolm and Ralf were riding with a party of these young men.  King Henry had consented to
make his first day's journey as far as Corbeil in a litter, since only there he was to meet
the larger number of his troops, whom Bedford and Warwick were assembling.  James was riding
close beside him, with his immediate attendants; and the two youths, not being needed, had
joined their comrades with the advanced guard of the escort.

It was always a fiction maintained by Henry, that he was marching in a friendly country; plunder
was strictly forbidden, and everything was to be paid for; but unfortunately, the peasantry
on his way never realized this, and the soldiery often took care they should not.  Therefore,
when the advanced guard came to the village that had been marked out for their halt, instead
of finding provisions and forage to be purchased, they met with only bare walls, and a few
stray cats; and while storming and raving between hunger and disappointment, a report came
from somewhere that the inhabitants had fled, and driven off their cattle to another village
some four miles off, in the woods, on the heights above.  Of course, they must be taught reason.
It was true that the men-at-arms, who were under the command of Sir Christopher Kitson and
Sir William Trenton, were obliged to abide where they were, much as Kitson growled at being
unable to procure a draught of wine for Trenton, whom he had been nursing for weeks under intermitting
fever, caught at Meaux; but the young gentlemen were well pleased to show themselves under
no Yorkshireman's orders, and galloped off en masse to procure refreshment for their horses
and themselves, further stimulated by the report that the Armagnacs had left a sick man behind
them there, who might be a valuable prisoner.

By and by, a woodland path brought the disorderly party, about forty in number, including their
servants and the ruffians who always followed whenever plunder was to be scented, out upon
a pretty French village of the better class, built round a green shaded with chestnuts, under
which, sure enough, were hay-carts, cows, sheep, and goats, and their owners, taking refuge
in a place thought to be out of the track of the invaders.

Here were the malicious defrauders of the hungry warriors.  Down upon them flew the angry foragers.
Soon the pretty tranquil scene was ringing with the oaths of the plundering and the cries of
the plundered; the cattle were being driven off, the houses and farm-yards rifled, blood was
flowing, and what could not be carried off was burning.  The search for the Armagnac prisoner
had, however, relaxed after the first inquiry, and Malcolm, surprised that this had been forgotten,
suddenly bethought him of the distinction he should secure by sending a valuable prize to Esclairmonde's
feet.  He seized on an old man who had not been able to fly, and stood trembling and panting
in a corner, and demanded where the sick man was.  The old man pointed to a farm-house, round
which clouds of smoke were rolling, and Malcolm hurried into it, shouting, 'Dog of an Armagnac,
come out!  Yield, ere thou be burnt!'

No answer; and he dashed forward.  In the lower room was a sight that opened his eyes with
horror--no other than the shield of Drummond, with the three wavy lines; ay, and with it the
helmet and suit of armour, whereof he knew each buckle and brace!

'Patie!  Patrick!  Patrick Drummond!' he wildly shouted, 'are you there?'

No answer; and seeing through the smoke a stair, he rushed up.  There, in an upper room, on
a bed, lay a senseless form, suffocated perhaps by the smoke, but unmistakably his cousin!
He called to him, seized him, shook him, dragged him out of bed, all in vain; there was no
sign of animation. The fire was gaining on the house; Malcolm's own breath was failing, and
his frenzied efforts to carry Patrick's almost giant form to the stairs were quite unavailing.
Wild with horror, he flew shouting down-stairs to call Halbert, whom he had left with his horse,
but neither Halbert nor horse was in sight, nor indeed any of the party.  Not a man was in
sight, except a few hurrying far out of reach, as if something had alarmed them. He wrung his
hands in anguish, and was about to make another attempt to drag Patrick down from the already
burning house, when suddenly a troop of horse was among the scene of desolation, and at their
head King James himself.  Malcolm flew to the King, cutting short his angry exclamation with
the cry, 'Help! help! he will burn!  Patrick!  Patie Drummond! There!'

James had scarce gathered the sense of the words, ere, leaping from his horse, he bounded up
the stairs, through the smoke, amid flakes of burning thatch falling from the roof, groped
in the dense clouds of smoke for the senseless weight, and holding the shoulders while Malcolm
held the feet, they sped down the stair, and rested not till they had laid him under a chestnut
tree, out of reach of the crash of the house, which fell in almost instantly.

'Does he live?' gasped Malcolm.

'He will not,' said the King, 'if his nation be known here.  Keep out of his sight!  He must
hear only French!'

Remembering how inexorably Henry hung every Scotch prisoner, Malcolm's heart sank.  This was
why no one had sought the prisoner.  A Scot was not available for ransom!  Should he be the
murderer of his cousin, Lily's love?

Meantime James hurriedly explained to Kitson that here was the sick man left by the enemy,
summoned Sir Nigel to his side, closed his own visor, and called for water; then hung over
the prisoner, anxious to prevent the first word from being broad Scotch.  In the free air,
some long sobs showed that Patrick was struggling back to life; and James at once said, 'Rendez
vous, Messire;' but he neither answered, nor was there meaning in his eyes.  And James perceived
that he was bandaged as though for broken ribs, and that his right shoulder was dislocated,
and no doubt had been a second time pulled out when Malcolm had grasped him by the arms.  He
swooned again at the first attempt to lift him, and a hay-cart having been left in the flight
of the marauders, he was laid in it, and covered with the King's cloak, to be conveyed to Corbeil,
where James trusted to secure his life by personal intercession with Henry.  He groaned heavily
several times, but never opened his eyes or spoke articulately the whole way; and James and
Sir Nigel kept on either side of the cart, ready to address him in French the first moment,
having told the English that he was a prisoner of quality, who must be carefully conveyed to
King James's tent at Corbeil.  Malcolm was not allowed to approach, lest he should be recognized;
and he rode along in an agony of shame and suspense, with very different feelings towards Patrick
than those with which he had of late thought of him, or of his own promises.  If Patrick died
through this plundering raid, how should he ever face Lily?

It was nearly night ere they reached Corbeil, where the tents were pitched outside the little
town.  James committed his captive to the prudent care of old Baird, bidding him send for a
French or Burgundian surgeon, unable to detect the Scottish tongue; and then, taking Malcolm
with him, he crossed the square in the centre of the camp to the royal pavilion, opposite to
which his own was pitched.

It was a sultry night, and Henry had insisted on sleeping in his tent, declaring himself sick
of stone walls; and as they approached his voice could be heard in brief excited sentences,
giving orders, and asking for the King of Scots.

'Here, Sir,' said James, stopping in where the curtain was looped up, and showed King Henry
half sitting, half lying, on a couch of cushions and deer-skins, his eyes full of fire, his
thin face flushed with deep colour; Bedford, March, Warwick, and Salisbury in attendance.

'Ho! you are late!' said Henry.  'Did you come up with the caitiff robbers?'

'They made off as we rode up.  The village was already burnt.'

'Who were they?  I hope you hung them on the spot, as I bade,' continued Henry, coughing between
his sentences, and almost in spite of himself, putting his hand to his side.

'I was delayed.  There was a life to save: a gentleman who lay sick and stifled in a burning
house.'

'And what was it to you,' cried Henry, angrily, 'if a dozen rebel Armagnacs were fried alive,
when I sent you to hinder my men from growing mere thieves?  Gentleman, forsooth!  One would
think it the Dauphin himself; or mayhap Buchan.  Ha! it is a Scot, then!'

'Yes, Sir,' said James; 'Sir Patrick Drummond, a good knight, hurt and helpless, for whom I
entreat your grace.'

'You disobeyed me to spare a Scot!' burst forth Henry.  'You, who call yourself a captain of
mine, and who know my will!  He hangs instantly!'

'Harry, bethink yourself.  This is no captive taken in battle.  He is a sick man, left behind,
sorely hurt.'

'Then wherefore must you be meddling, instead of letting him burn as he deserved, and heeding
what you undertook for me?  I will have none of your traitor ruffians here.  Since you have
brought him in, the halter for him!--Here, Ralf Percy, tell the Provost-marshal--'

He was interrupted, for James unbuckled his sword, and tendered it to him.

'King Harry,' he said gravely, 'this morning I was your friend and brother-in-arms; now I am
your captive.  Hang Patrick Drummond, who aided me at Meaux in saving my honour and such freedom
as I have, and I return to any prison you please, and never strike blow for you again.'

'Take back your sword,' said Henry.  'What folly is this?  You knew that I count not your rebel
subjects as prisoners of war.'

'I did not know that I was saving a defenceless man from the flames to be used like a dog.
I never offered my arm to serve a savage tyrant.'

'Take your sword!' reiterated Henry, his passion giving way before James's steady calmness.
'We will look into it to-morrow: but it was no soldierly act to take advantage of my weariness,
to let my commands be broken the first day of taking the field, and bring the caitiff here.
We will leave him for the night, I say.  Take up your sword.'

'Not till I am sure of my liegeman's life,' said James.

'No threats, Sir.  I will make no promise,' said Henry, haughtily; but the words died away
in a racking cough.

And Bedford, laying his hand on James's arm, said, 'He is fevered and weary.  Fret him no longer,
but take your sword, and get your fellow out of the camp.'

James was too much hurt to make a compromise.  'No,' he said; 'unless your brother freely spares
the life of a man thus taken, I must be his prisoner--but his soldier never!'

He left the tent, followed by Malcolm in an agony of despair and self- reproach.

Henry's morning decisions were not apt to vary from his evening ones. There was a terrible
implacability about him at times, and he had never ceased to visit his brother of Clarence's
death upon the Scots, on the plea that they were in arms against their king.  Even Bedford
obviously thought that the prisoner would be safest out of his reach; and this could hardly
be accomplished, since Patrick had been placed in James's tent, in the very centre of the camp,
near the King's own.  And though Bedford and March might have connived at his being taken away,
yet the mass of the soldiery would, if they detected a Scot being smuggled away into the town,
have been persuaded that King James was acting treacherously.

Besides, the captive himself proved to be so exhausted, that to transport him any further in
his present state would have been almost certainly fatal.  A barber surgeon from Corbeil had
been fetched, and was dealing with the injuries, which had apparently been the effect of a
fall some days previously, probably when on his way to join the French army at Cosne; and the
first fever of these hurts had no doubt been aggravated by the adventures of the day.  At any
rate Patrick lay unconscious, or only from time to time groaning or murmuring a few words,
sometimes French, sometimes Scotch.

Malcolm would have fallen on his knees by his side, and striven to win a word or a look, but
James forcibly withheld him.  'If you roused him into loud ravings in our own tongue, all hope
of saving him would be gone,' he said.

'Shall we?  Oh, can we?' cried Malcolm, catching at the mere word hope.

'I only know,' said the King, 'that unless we do so by Harry's good-will, I will never serve
under him again.'

'And if he persists in his cruelty?'

'Then must some means be found of carrying Drummond into Corbeil.  It will go hard with me
but he shall be saved, Malcolm.  But this whole army is against a Scot; and Harry's eye is
everywhere, and his fierceness unrelenting.  Malcolm, this is bondage!  May God and St. Andrew
aid us!'

When the King came to saying that, it was plain he deemed the case past all other aid.

Malcolm's misery was great.  The very sight of Patrick had made a mighty revulsion in his feelings.
The almost forgotten associations of Glenuskie were revived; the forms of his guardian and
of Lily came before him, as he heard familiar names and phrases in the dear home accent fall
from the fevered lips.  Coldingham rose up before him, and St. Abbs, with Lily watching on
the rocks for tidings of her knight--her knight, to whom her brother had once promised to resign
all his lands and honours, but who now lay captured by plunderers, among whom that brother
made one, and in peril of a shameful death.  Oh, far better die in his stead, than return to
Lily with tidings such as these!

Was this retribution for his broken purpose, and for having fallen away, not merely into secular
life, but into sins that stood between him and religious rites?  The King had called St. Andrew
to aid!  Must a proof of repentance and change be given, ere that aid would come?  Should he
vow himself again to the cloister, yield up the hope of Esclairmonde, and devote himself for
Patrick's sake?  Could he ever be happy with Patrick dead, and Esclairmonde driven and harassed
into being his wife?  Were it not better to vow at once, that so his cousin were spared he
would return to his old purposes?

Almost had he uttered the vow, when, tugging hard at his heart, came the vision of Esclairmonde's
loveliness, and he felt it beyond his strength to resign her voluntarily; besides, how Madame
of Hainault and Monseigneur de Therouenne would deride his uncertainties; and how intolerable
it would be to leave Esclairmonde to fall into the hands of Boemond of Burgundy.

Such a renunciation could not be made; he did not even know that Patrick's safety depended
on it; and instead of that, he promised, with great fervency of devotion, that if St. Andrew
would save Patrick Drummond, and bring about the two marriages, a most splendid monastery for
educational purposes, such as the King so much wished to found, should be his reward.  It should
be in honour of St. Andrew, and should be endowed with Esclairmonde's wealth, which would be
quite ample enough, both for this and for a noble portion for Lily.  Surely St. Andrew must
accept such a vow, and spare Patrick!  So Malcolm tried to pacify an anguish of suspense that
would not be pacified.

CHAPTER XII: THE LAST PILGRIMAGE

The summer morning came; the reveille sounded, Mass was sung in the chapel tent, without which
Henry never moved; and Malcolm tried to reassure his sinking heart by there pledging his vow
to St. Andrew.

The English king was not present; but the troops were drawing up in complete array, that he
might inspect them before the march.  And a glorious array they were, of steel-clad men-at-arms
on horseback, in bands around their leader's banner, and of ranks of sturdy archers, with their
long-bows in leathern cases; the orderly multitude, stretching as far as the eye could reach,
glittering in the early sun, and waiting with bold and glad hearts to greet the much-loved
king, who had always led them to victory.

The only unarmed knight was James of Scotland.  He stood in the space beside the standard of
England, in his plain suit of chamois leather, his crimson cloak over his shoulder, but with
no weapon about him, waiting with crossed arms for the morning's decision.

Close outside the royal tent waited Henry's horse, and those of his brother and other immediate
attendants; and after a short interval the King came forth in his brightest armour, with the
coronal on his helmet, and the beaver up; and as he mounted, not without considerable aid,
enthusiastic shouts of 'Long live King Harry!' broke forth, and came echoing back and back
from troop to troop, gathering fervour as they rose.

The King rode forward towards the standard; but while yet the shouts were pealing from the
army, be suddenly caught at his saddle-bow, reeled visibly, and would have fallen before Bedford
could bring his horse to his side, had not James sprung forward, and laid one arm round him,
and a hand on his rein.

'It is nothing,' said Henry.  'Let me alone.'

Ere the words were finished, he put his hand to his side, dropped his bridle, and gasped, while
a look of intense suffering passed over his features; and he was passive while his horse was
led back to the tent, and he was lifted down and placed on the couch he had just quitted.

'Loose my belt,' he gasped; then trying to smile, 'Percy has strained it three holes tighter.'

Alas! though it was indeed thus drawn in, his armour was hanging on him like the shell of a
last year's nut.  They released him from it, and he lay against the cushions with short painful
respiration, and frequent cough.

'You must go on with the men at once, John,' he said.  'I will but be blooded, and follow in
the litter.'

'Warwick and Salisbury--' began Bedford.

'No, no!' peremptorily gasped Henry.  'It must be you or I, I would, but this stitch in the
side catches me, so that I can neither ride nor speak. Go, instantly.  You know what I have
ordered.  I'll be up with you ere the battle.'

He brooked no resistance.  His impatience, and with it the oppression and pain, only grew by
remonstrance; and Bedford was forced to obey the command to go himself, and leave no one he
could help behind him.

'You will stay, at least,' said John, in his distress, turning to the Scottish king.

'I must,' said James.

'You hold not your wrath?' said Bedford.  'It will madden me to leave him to any save you in
this stress.  Some are dull; some he will not heed.'

'I will tend him like yourself, John,' said the Scot, taking his hand. 'Do what he may, Harry
is Harry still.  Hasten to your command, John; he will be calmer when you are gone.'

Bedford groaned.  It was hard to leave his brother at a moment when he must be more than himself--become
general of an army, with a battle imminent; but he was under dire necessity, and forced himself
to listen to and gather the import of the few terse orders and directions that Henry, breathless
as he was, rendered clear and trenchant as ever.

The King almost drove his brother away at last, while a barber was taking a copious stream
of blood from him; and as the army had already been set in motion, a great stillness soon prevailed,
no one being left save a small escort, and part of the King's own immediate household, for
Henry had himself ordered away Montagu, his chamberlain, Percy, and almost all on whom his
eyes fell.  The bleeding relieved him; he breathed less tightly, but became deadly pale, and
sank into a doze of extreme exhaustion.

'Who is here?' he said, awakening.  'Some drink!  What you, Jamie!  You that were on fire to
see a stricken field!'

'Not so much as to see you better at ease,' said James.

'I am better,' said Henry.  'I could move now; and I must.  This tent will stifle me by noon.'

'You will not go forward?'

'No; I'll go back.  A sick man is best with his wife.  And I can battle it no further, nor
grudge the glory of the day to John.  He deserves it.'

The irascible sharpness had passed from his voice and manner, and given place to a certain
languid cheerfulness, as arrangements were made for his return to Vincennes.

There proved to be a large and commodious barge, in which the transit could be effected on
the river, with less of discomfort than in the springless horse litter by which he had travelled
the day before; and this was at once prepared.

Malcolm had meanwhile remained, as in duty bound, in attendance on his king.  James had found
time to enjoin him to stay, being, to say the truth, unwilling to trust one so inexperienced
and fragile in the melee without himself; nor indeed would this have been a becoming moment
for him to put himself forward to win his spurs in the English cause.

Nothing had passed about Patrick Drummond, nor the high words of last night.  Henry seemed
to have forgotten them, between his bodily suffering and the anxiety of being forced to relinquish
the command just before a battle; and James would have felt it ungenerous to harass him at
such a moment, when absolutely committed to his charge.  For the present, there was no fear
of the prisoner being summarily executed by any lawful authority, since the King had promised
to take cognizance of the case; and the chief danger was from his chance discovery by some
lawless man-at- arms, who would think himself doing good service by killing a concealed Scot
under any circumstances.

Drummond himself, after his delirious night, had sunk into a heavy sleep; and the King thought
the best hope for him would be to remain under the care of Sir Nigel Baird for the present,
until he could obtain favour for him from Henry, and could send back orders from Vincennes.
He would not leave Malcolm to share the care of him, declaring that the canny Sir Nigel would
have quite enough to do in averting suspicion without him; and, besides, he needed Malcolm
himself, in the scarcity of attendants who had any tenderness or dexterity of hand to wait
upon the suffering King.

Henry had rallied enough to walk down to the river, leaning upon James; and he smiled thanks
when he was assisted by Trenton and Kitson to lie along on cushions.  'So, my Yorkshire knights,'
he said, ''tis you that have had to stop from the battle to watch a sick man home!'

'Ay, Sir,' said Sir Christopher; 'I did it with the better will, that Trenton here has not
been his own man since the fever; and 'twere no fair play in the matter your Grace wets of,
did I go into battle whole and sound, and he sick and sorry.'

Henry's look of amusement brightened him into his old self, as he said, 'Honester guards could
I scarce have, good friend.'

At that moment, after a nudge or two from Trenton, Kitson and he came suddenly down on their
knees, with an impetus that must have tried the boards of the bottom of the barge.  'Sir,'
said Kitson, always the spokesman, 'we have a grace to ask of you.'

'Say on,' said Henry.  'Any boon, save the letting you cut one another's throats.'

'No, Sir.  Will Trenton's scarce my match now, more's the pity; and, moreover, we've lost the
good will to it we once had.  No, Sir; 'twas license to go a pilgrimage.'

'On pilgrimage!'

'Ay, Sir; to yon shrine at Breuil--St. Fiacre's, as they call him.  Some of our rogues pillaged
his shrine, as you know, Sir; and those that know these parts best, say he was a Scottish hermit,
and bears malice like a Scot, saint though he be; and that your sickness, my lord, is all along
of that.  So we two have vowed to go barefoot there for your healing, my liege, if so be we
have your license.'

'And welcome, with my best thanks, good friends,' said Henry, exerting himself to lean forward
and give his hand to their kiss.  Then, as they fell back into their places, with a few inarticulate
blessings and assurances that they only wished they could go to Rome, or to Jerusalem, if it
would restore their king, Henry said, smiling, as he looked at James, 'Scotsmen here, there,
and everywhere--in Heaven as well as earth! What was it last night about a Scot that moved
thine ire, Jamie?  Didst not tender me thy sword?  By my faith, thou hast it not!  What was
the rub?'

James now told the story in its fulness.  How he had met Sir Patrick Drummond at Glenuskie;
how, afterwards, the knight had stood by him in the encounter at Meaux; and how it had been
impossible to leave him senseless to the flames; and how he had trusted that a capture made
thus, accidentally, of a helpless man, would not fall under Henry's strict rules against accepting
Scottish prisoners.

'Hm!' said Henry; 'it must be as you will; only I trust to you not to let him loose on us,
either here or on the Border.  Take back your sword, Jamie.  If I spoke over hotly last night--a
man hardly knows what he says when he has a goad in the side--you forgive it, Jamie.' And as
the Scots king, with the dew in his eyes, wrung his hand, he added anxiously, 'Your sword!
What, not here!  Here's mine.  Which is it?'  Then, as James handed it to him: 'Ay, I would
fain you wore it!  'Tis the sword of my knighthood, when poor King Richard dubbed me in Ireland;
and many a brave scheme came with it!'

The soft movement of the barge upon the water had a soothing influence; and he was certainly
in a less suffering state, though silent and dreamy, as he lay half raised on cushions under
an awning, James anxiously watching over him, and Malcolm with a few other attendants near
at hand; stout bargemen propelling the craft, and the guard keeping along the bank of the river.

His thoughts were perhaps with the battle, for presently he looked up, and murmured the verse:

   '"I had a dream, a weary dream,
      Ayont the Isle of Skye;
   I saw a dead man win a fight,
      And I think that man was I."

That stave keeps ringing in my brain; nor can I tell where or when I have heard it.'

''Tis from the Scottish ballad that sings of the fight of Otterburn,' said James; 'I brought
it with me from Scotland.'

'And got little thanks for your pains,' said Henry, smiling.  'But, methinks, since no Percy
is in the way, I would hear it again; there was true knighthood in the Douglas that died there.'

James's harp was never far off; and again his mellow voice went through that gallant and plaintive
strain, though in a far more subdued manner than the first time he had sung it; and Henry,
weakened and softened, actually dropped a brave man's tear at the 'bracken bush upon the lily
lea,' and the hero who lay there.

'That I should weep for a Douglas!' he said, half laughing; 'but the hearts of all honest men
lie near together, on whatever side they draw their swords.  God have mercy on whosoever may
fall to-morrow!  I trow, Jamie, thou couldst not sing that rough rhyme of Agincourt.  I was
bashful and ungracious enough to loathe the very sound of it when I came home in my pride of
youth; but I would lief hear it once more.  Or, stay--Yorkshiremen always have voices;' and
raising his tone, he unspeakably gratified Trenton and Kitson by the request; and their voices,
deep and powerful, and not uncultivated, poured forth the Lay of Agincourt to the waves of
the French river, and to its mighty victor:

   'Our King went forth to Normandye.'

Long and lengthily chanted was the triumphant song, with the Latin choruses, which were echoed
back by the escort on the bank; while Henry lay, listening and musing; and Malcolm had time
for many a thought and impulse.

Patrick's life was granted; although it had been promised too late to send the intelligence
back to the tent at Corbeil.  So far, the purpose of his vow to St. Andrew had been accomplished;
but with the probability that he should soon again be associated with Patrick, came the sense
of the failure in purpose and in promise.  Patrick would not reproach him, he well knew--nay,
would rejoice in the change; but even this certainty galled him, and made him dread his cousin's
presence as likely to bring him a sense of shame.  What would Patrick think of his letting
a lady be absolutely compelled to marry him?  Might he not say it was the part of Walter Stewart
over again?  Indeed, Malcolm remembered how carefully King James was prevented from hearing
the means by which the Countess intended to make the lady his own; and a sensation came over
him, that it was profanation to call on St. Andrew to bless what was to be brought about by
such means.  Why was it that, as his eyes fell on the face of King Henry, the whole world and
all his projects acquired so different a colouring? and a sentence he had once heard Esclairmonde
quote would come to him constantly: 'My son, think not to buy off God.  It is thyself that
He requires, not thy gifts.'

But the long lay of victory was over; and King Henry had roused himself to thank the singers,
then sighed, and said, 'How long ago that was!'

'Six years,' said James.

'The whole space from the hope and pride of youth to the care and toil of eld,' said Henry.
'Your Scots made an old man of me the day they slew Thomas.'

'Yet that has been your sole mishap,' said James.

'Yea, truly!  But thenceforth I have learnt that the road to Jerusalem is not so straight and
plain as I deemed it when I stood victorious at Agincourt.  The Church one again--the Holy
Sepulchre redeemed!  It seemed then before my eyes, and that I was the man called to do it.'

'So it may be yet,' said James.  'Sickness alters everything, and raises mountains before us.'

'It may be so,' said Henry; 'and yet--Jerusalem!  Jerusalem!  It was my father's cry; it was
King Edward's cry; it was St. Louis' cry; and yet they never got there.'

'St. Louis was far on his way,' said James.

'Ay! he never turned aside!' said Henry, sighing, and moving restlessly and wearily with something
of returning fever.

   "'O bona patria, lumina sobria te speculantur--"

Boy, are you there?' as, in turning, his eye fell on Malcolm.  'Take warning: the straight
road is the best.

And James, seeing that nothing lulled him like song, offered to sing that mysteriously beautiful
rhythm of Bernard of Morlaix.

'Ay, prithee do so,' said Henry.  'There's a rest there, when the Agincourt lay rings hollow.
Well, there is a Jerusalem where our shortcomings are made up; only the straight way--the straight
way.'

Malcolm took his part with James in singing the rhythm, which he had learnt long ago at Coldingham,
and which thus in every note brought back the vanished aspirations and self-dedication to 'the
straight way.'

For such, an original purpose of self-devotion must ever be--not of course exclusively to the
monastic life; but whoever lowers his aims of serving God under any worldly inducement, is
deviating from the straight way: and, thought Malcolm, if King Harry feels Agincourt an empty
word beside the song of Sion, must not all I have sought for be a very vanity?

Sometimes dozing, but sometimes restless, and with the pain of breathing constantly increasing
on him, Henry wore through the greater part of the day, upon the river, until it was necessary
to land, and be taken through the forest in his litter.  He was now obliged to be lifted from
the barge; and his weariness rendered the conveyance very distressing, save that his patient
smile never faded; and still he said, 'All will be well when I come to my Kate!'

Alas! when the gates were reached, James hardly knew how to tell him that the Queen had gone
that morning to Paris with her mother.  Yet still he was cheerful.  'If the physicians deal
hard with me,' he said, 'it will be well that she should not be here till the worst is over.'

The physicians were there.  A messenger had gone direct from Corbeil to summon them; and Henry
delivered himself up into their hands, to fight out the battle with disease, as he had set
himself to fight out many another battle in his time.

A sharp conflict it was--between a keen and aggravated disease, apparently pleurisy coming
upon pulmonary affection of long standing, and a strong and resolute nature, unquenched by
suffering, and backed by the violent remedies of a half-instructed period.  Those who watched
him, and strove to fulfil the directions of the physicians, hardly marked the lapse of hours;
even though more than one day and night had passed ere in the early twilight of a long summer's
morn he sank into a sleep, his face still distressed, but less acutely, and his breath heavy
and labouring, though without the severe pain.

The watchers felt that here might be the turning point, and stood or sat around, not daring
to change their postures, or utter the slightest word. Suddenly, James, who stood nearest,
leaning against the wall, with his eyes fixed on the face of the sleeper, was aware of a hand
on his shoulder, and looking round, saw in the now full light Bedford's face--so pale, haggard,
and replete with anxiety, so dusty and travel-stained, that Henry, awakening at that moment,
exclaimed, 'Ha, John!'  And as his brother was slow to reply--'Has the day gone against thee?
How was it? Never fear to speak, brother; thou art safe; and I know thou hast done valiantly.
Valour is never lost, whether in defeat or success.  Speak, John.  Take it not so much to heart.'

'There has been no battle, Harry,' said Bedford, gathering voice with difficulty.  'The Dauphin
would not abide our coming, but broke up his camp.'

'Beshrew thee, man!' said Henry; 'but I thought thou wast just off a flight!'

'Dost think one can ride fast only for a flight?' said Bedford.  'Ah, would that it had been
the loss of ten battles rather than this!'

And he fell on his knees, grasping Henry's hand, and hiding his face against the bed, with
the same instinct of turning to him for comfort with which the young motherless children of
Henry of Bolingbroke, when turned adrift among the rude Beaufort progeny of John of Gaunt,
had clung to their eldest brother, and found tenderness in his love and protection in his fearlessness;
so that few royal brethren ever loved better than Henry and John of Lancaster.

'It was well and kindly done, John,' said Henry; 'and thou hast come at a good time; for, thanks
be to God, the pain hath left me; and if it were not for this burthen of heaviness and weariness,
I should be more at ease than I have been for many weeks.'

But as he spoke, there was that both in his face and voice that chilled with a dread certainty
the hearts of those who hung over him.

'Is my wife come?  I could see her now,' he wistfully asked.

Alas! no.  Sir Lewis Robsart, the knight attached to her service, faltered, with a certain
shame and difficulty, that the Queen would come when her orisons at Notre Dame were performed.

It was his last disappointment; but still he bore it cheerily.

'Best,' he said.  'My fair one was not made for sights like this; and were she here'--his lip
trembled--'I might bear me less as a Christian man should.  My sweet Catherine!  Take care
of her, John; she will be the most desolate being in the world.'

John promised with all his heart; though pity for cold-hearted Catherine was not the predominant
feeling there.

'I would I had seen my child's face, and blessed him,' continued Henry. 'Poor boy!  I would
have him Warwick's charge.'

'Warwick is waiting admission,' said Bedford.  'He and Salisbury and Exeter rode with me.'

The King's face lighted up with joy as he heard this.  'It is good for a man to have his friends
about him,' he said; and as they entered he held out his hand to them and thanked them.

Then took place the well-known scene, when, looking back on his career, he pronounced it to
have been his endeavour to serve God and his people, and declared himself ready to face death
fearlessly, since such was the will of his Maker: grieving only for the infancy of his son,
but placing his hope and comfort in his brother John, and commending the babe to the fatherly
charge of Warwick.  'You cannot love him for his own sake as yet; but if you think you owe
me aught, repay it to him.'  And as he thought over the fate of other infant kings, he spoke
of some having hated the father and loved the child, others who had loved the father and hated
the child.

To Humfrey of Gloucester he sent stringent warnings against giving way to his hot and fiery
nature, offending Burgundy, or rushing into a doubtful wedlock with Jaqueline of Hainault;
speaking of him with an elder brother's fatherly affection, but turning ever to John of Bedford
with full trust and reliance, as one like-minded, and able to carry out all his intentions.
For the French prisoners, they might not be released, 'lest more fire be kindled in one day
than can be quenched in three.'

'And for you, Jamie,' he said, affectionately holding out his hand, 'my friend, my brother-in-arms,
I must say the same as ever.  Pardon me, Jamie; but I have not kept you out of malice, such
as man must needs renounce on his death-bed.  I trust to John, and to the rest, for giving
you freedom at such time as you can safely return to be such a king indeed as we have ever
hoped to be.  Do you pardon me, James, for this, as for any harshness or rudeness you may have
suffered from me?'

James, with full heart, murmured out his ardent love, his sense that no captive had ever been
so generously treated as he.

'And you, my young lord,' said Henry, looking towards Malcolm, whose light touch and tender
hands had made him a welcome attendant in the illness, 'I have many a kind service to thank
you for.  And I believe I mightily angered you once; but, boy, remember--ay, and you too, Ralf
Percy--that he is your friend who turns you back from things sore to remember in a case like mine!'

After these, and other calm collected farewells, Henry required to know from his physicians
how long his time might yet be.  There was hesitation in answering, plainly as they saw that
mortification had set in.

'What,' he said, 'do ye think I have faced death so many times to fear it now?'

Then came the reply given by the weeping, kneeling physician: 'Sir, think of your soul, for,
without a miracle, you cannot live two hours.'

The King beckoned his confessor, and his friends retired, to return again to take their part
in the last rites, the Viaticum and Unction.

Henry was collected, and alive to all that was passing, responding duly, and evidently entering
deeply into the devotions that were to aid his spirit in that awful passage; his face gravely
set, but firm and fearless as ever.  The ceremonial ended, he was still sensible, though with
little power of voice or motion left; but the tone, though low, was steady as ever, when he
asked for the Penitential Psalms.  Still they doubted whether he were following them, for his
eyes closed, and his lips ceased to move, until, as they chanted the revival note of David's
mournful penance--'O be favourable and gracious unto Sion; build Thou the walls of Jerusalem;'--at
that much-loved word, the light of the blue eyes once more beamed out, and he spoke again.
'Jerusalem!  On the faith of a dying king, it was my earnest purpose to have composed matters
here into peace and union, and so to have delivered Jerusalem.  But the will of God be done,
since He saw me unworthy.'

Then his eyes closed again; he slept, or seemed to sleep; and then a strange quivering came
over the face, the lips moved again, and the words broke from them, 'Thou liest, foul spirit!
thou liest!' but, as though the parting soul had gained the victory in that conflict, peace
came down on the wasted features; and with the very words of his Redeemer Himself, 'Into Thy
hands I commend my spirit,' he did indeed fall asleep; the mighty soul passed from the worn-out
frame.

CHAPTER XIII: THE RING AND THE EMPTY THRONE

No one knows how great a tree has been till it has fallen; nor how large a space a mighty man
has occupied till he is removed.

King Henry V. left his friends and foes alike almost dizzy, as in place of his grand figure
they found a blank; instead of the hand whose force they had constantly felt, mere emptiness.

Malcolm of Glenuskie, who had been asserting constantly that King Henry was no master of his,
and had no rights over him, had nevertheless, for the last year or more, been among those to
whom the King's will was the moving spring, fixing the disposal of almost every hour, and making
everything dependent thereon.

When the death-hush was broken by the 'Depart, O Christian soul,' and Bedford, with a face
white and set like a statue, stood up from his knees, and crossed and kissed the still white
brow, it was to Malcolm as if the whole universe had become as nothing.  To him there remained
only the great God, the heavenly Jerusalem into which the King had entered, and himself far
off from the straight way, wandering from his promise and his purpose into what seemed to him
a mere hollow painted scene, such as came and went in the midst of a banquet.  Or, again, it
was the grisly Dance of Death that was the only reality; Death had clutched the mightiest in
the ring.  Whom would he clutch next?

He stood motionless, as one in a dream, or rather as if not knowing which was reality, and
which phantom; gazing, gazing on at the bed where the King lay, round which the ecclesiastics
were busying themselves, unperceiving that James, Bedford, and the nobles had quitted the apartment,
till Percy first spoke to him in a whisper, then almost shook him, and led him out of the room.
'I am sent for you,' he said, in a much shaken voice; 'your king says you can be of use.' 
Then tightening his grasp with the force of intense grief, 'Oh, what a day! what a day! My
father! my father!  I never knew mine own father!  But he has been all to Harry and to me!
Oh, woe worth the day!'  And dropping into a window- seat, he covered his face with his hands,
and gave way to his grief: pointing, however, to the council-room, where Malcolm found Bedford
writing at the table, King James, and a few others, engaged in the same manner.

A few words from James informed him (or would have done so if he could have understood) that
the Duke of Bedford, on whom at that terrible moment the weight of two kingdoms and of the
war had descended, could not pause to rest, or to grieve, till letters and orders had been
sent to the council in England, and to every garrison, every ally in France, to guard against
any sudden panic, or faltering in friendship to England and her infant heir.  Warwick and Salisbury
were already riding post haste to take charge of the army; Robsart was gone to the Queen, Exeter
to the Duke of Burgundy; and as the clergy were all engaged with the tendance of the royal
corpse, there was scarcely any one to lessen the Duke's toil. James, knowing Malcolm's pen
to be ready, had sent for him to assist in copying the brief scrolls, addressed to each captain
of a fortress or town, announcing the father's death, and commanding him to do his duty to
the son--King Harry VI.  Each was then to be signed by the Duke, and despatched by men-at-arms,
who waited for the purpose.

Like men stunned, the half-dozen who sat at the council-table worked on, never daring to glance
at the empty chair at the upper end.  The only words that passed were occasional inquiries
of, and orders from, Bedford; and these he spoke with a strange alertness and metallic ring
in his voice, as though the words were uttered by mechanism; yet in themselves they were as
clear and judicious as possible, as if coming from a mind wound up exclusively to the one necessary
object; and the face--though flushed at first, and gradually growing paler, with knitted brows
and compressed lips--betrayed no sign of emotion.

Hours passed: he wrote, he ordered, he signed, he sealed; he mentioned name after name, of
place and officer, never moving or looking up.  And James, who knew from Salisbury that he
had neither slept nor eaten since sixty miles off he had met a worse report of his brother,
watched him anxiously till, when evening began to fall, he murmured, 'There is the captain
of--of--at--but--'--the pen slipped from his fingers, and he said, 'I can no more!'

The overtaxed powers, strained so long--mind, memory, and all--were giving way under the mere
force of excessive fatigue.  He rose from his seat, but stumbled, like one blind, as James
upheld him, and led him away to the nearest bed-chamber, where, almost while the attendants
divested him of the heavy boots and cuirass he had never paused all these hours to remove,
he dropped into a sleep of sheer exhaustion.

James, who was likewise wearied out with watching, turned towards his own quarters; but, in
so doing, he could not but turn aside to the chapel, where before the altar had been laid all
that was left of King Henry. There he lay, his hands clasped over a crucifix, clad in the same
rich green and crimson robes in which he had ridden to meet his Queen at Vincennes but three
short months before; the golden circlet from his helmet was on his head, but it could not give
additional majesty to the still and severe sweetness of his grand and pure countenance, so
youthful in the lofty power that high aspirations had imprinted on it, yet so intensely calm
in its marble rest, more than ever with the look of the avenging unpitying angel.  To James,
it was chiefly the face of the man whom he had best loved and admired, in spite of their strange
connection; but to Malcolm, who had as usual followed him closely, it was verily a look from
the invisible world--a look of awful warning and reproof, almost as if the pale set lips were
unclosing to demand of him where he was in the valley of shadows, through which the way lay
to Jerusalem.  If Henry had turned back, and warned him at the gate of the heavenly Sion, surely
such would have been his countenance; and Malcolm, when, like James, he had sprinkled the holy
water on the white brow, and crossed himself while the low chant of Psalms from kneeling priests
went up around him--clasped his two hands close together, and breathed forth the words, 'Oh,
I have wandered far!  O great King, I will never leave the straight way again!  I will cast
aside all worldly aims!  O God, and the Saints, help me not to lose my way again!'

He would have tarried on still, in the fascination of that wonderful unearthly countenance,
and in the inertness of faculties stunned by fatigue and excitement, but James summoned him
by a touch, and he again followed him.

'O Sir!' he began, when they had turned away, 'I repent me of my falling away to the world!
I give all up.  Let me back to my vows of old.'

'We will talk of that another time,' said James, gravely.  'Neither you nor I, Malcolm, can
think reasonably under such a blow as this; and I forbid you rashly to bind yourself.'

'Sir, Sir!' cried Malcolm, petulantly.  'You took me from the straight way.  You shall not
hinder my return!'

'I hinder no true purpose,' said King James.  'I only hinder another rash and hasty pledge,
to be felt as a fetter, or left broken on your conscience.  Silence now.  When men are sad
and spent they cannot speak as befits them, and had best hold their peace.'

These words were spoken on the way up the stair that led to the apartments of the King of Scots.
On opening the door of the larger room, the first thing they saw was the tall figure of a distinguished-looking
knight, who, as they entered, flung himself at King James's feet, fervently exclaiming, 'O
my liege! accept my homage!  Never was vassal so bound to his lord by thankfulness for his
life, and for far more than his life!'

'Sir Patrick Drummond, I am glad to see you better at ease,' said James. 'Nay, suffer me,'
he added, giving his hand to raise the knight, but finding it grasped and kissed with passionate
devotion, almost overpowering the only half-recovered knight, so that James was forced to use
strength to support him, and would at once have lifted him up, but the warm-hearted Patrick
resisted, almost sobbing out--'Nay, Sir! king of my heart indeed! let me first thank you. 
I knew not how much more I owed you than the poor life you saved--my father's rescue, and that
of all that was most dear.'

'Speak of such things seated, my good friend,' said James, trying to raise him; but Drummond
still did not second his efforts.

'I have not given my parole of honour as the captive whose life is again due to you.'

'You must give that to the Duke of Bedford, Sir Patrick,' said James.  'I know not if I am
to be put into ward myself.  In any case you are safe, by the good King's grace, so you pledge
yourself to draw no sword against England in Scotland or France till ransom be accepted for you.'

'Alack!' said Patrick, 'I have neither sword nor ransom.  I would I knew what was to be done
with the life you have given me, my lord.'

'I will find a use for it, never fear,' said James, sadly, but kindly. 'Be my knight for the
present, till better days come for us both.'

'With my whole heart!' said Patrick, fervently.  'Yours am I for ever, my liege.'

'Then my first command is that you should rise, and rest,' said James, assisting the knight
to regain his feet, and placing him in the only chair in the room.  'You must become a whole
man as soon as may be.'

For Patrick's arm was in a sling, and evidently still painful and useless, and he sank back,
breathless and unresisting, like one who had by no means regained perfect health, while his
handsome features looked worn and pale.  'I fear me,' said James, as the two cousins silently
shook hands, 'that you have moved over soon.--You surely had my message, Bairdsbrae?'

'Oh yes, my lord,' replied Baird; 'but the lad was the harder to hold; and after the fever
was gone, we deemed he could well brook the journey by water.  'Twas time I was here to guide
ye too, my lord; you and the callant baith look sair forfaughten.'

'We have had a sad time of it, Nigel,' said James, with trembling lip.

'And if Brewster tells me right, ye've not tasted food the whole day?' said Nigel, laying an
authoritative hand on his royal pupil.  'Nay, sit ye down; here come the varlets with the meal
I bade them have ready.'

James passively yielded, courteously signing to the others to share the food that was spread
on a table; and with the same scarcely conscious grace, making inquiries, which elicited that
Patrick Drummond's hurts had been caused by his horse falling and rolling over with him, whilst
with Sir John Swinton and other Scottish knights he was reconnoitring the line of the English
march.  He was too much injured to be taken back to the far distant camp, and had accordingly
been intrusted to the French farmer, with no attendant but a young French horse-boy, since
he was too poor to keep a squire.  He knew nothing more, for fever had run high; and he had
not even been sensible of his desertion by his French hosts on the approach of the English,
far less of the fire, and of his rescue by the King and Malcolm; but for this he seemed inclined
to compensate to the utmost, by the intense eagerness of devotion with which he regarded James,
who sat meanwhile crushed down by the weight of his own grief.

'I can eat no more, Baird,' said he, swallowing down a draught of wine, and pushing aside his
trencher.  'Your license, gentlemen.  I must be alone.  Take care of the lads, Nigel.  Malcolm
is spent too.  His deft service was welcome to--to my dearest brother.'

And though he hastily shut himself into his own inner chamber, it was not till they had seen
that his grief was becoming uncontrollable.

Patrick could not but murmur, 'Dearest brother!'

'Ay, like brothers they loved!' said Baird, gravely.

'A strange brotherhood,' began Drummond.

But Malcolm cried, with much agitation, 'Not a word, Patie!  You know not what you say.  Take
heed of profaning the name of one who is gone to the Sion above.'

'You turned English, our wee Malcolm!' exclaimed Drummond, in amaze.

'There is no English, French, or Scot where he is gone!' cried Malcolm. 'No Babel!  O Patie,
I have been far fallen!  I have done you in heart a grievous wrong! but if I have turned back
in time, it is his doing that lies there.'

'His! what, Harry of Lancaster's?' demanded the bewildered Patrick.  'What had he to do with you?'

'He has been my only true friend here!' cried Malcolm.  'Oh, if my hand be free from actual
spoil and bloodshed, it was his doing!  Oh, that he could hear me bless him for the chastisement
I took so bitterly!'

'Chastisement!' demanded Patrick.  'The English King dared chastise you! of Scots blood royal!
'Tis well he is dead!'

'The laddie's well-nigh beside himself!' said Baird.  'But he speaks true.  This king whom
Heaven assolizie, kept a tight hand over the youngsters; and falling on Lord Malcolm and some
other callants making free with a house at Meaux, dealt some blows, of which my young lord
found it hard to stomach his share; though I am glad to see he is come to a better mind.  Ay,
'tis pity of this King Harry!  Brave and leal was he; never spake an untrue word; never turned
eye for fear, nor foot for weariness, nor hand for toil, nor nose for ill savour.  A man, look
you, to be trusted; never failing his word for good or ill!  Right little love has there been
between him and me; but I could weep like my own lad in there, to think I shall never see that
knightly presence more, nor hear those frank gladsome voices of the boys, as they used to shout
up and down Windsor Forest.'

'You too, Sir Nigel! and with a king like ours!'

'Ay, Sir Patrick! and if he be such a king as Scotland never had since St. David, and maybe
not then, I'm free to own as much of it is due to King Harry as to his own noble self.--Did
ye say they had streekit him in the chapel, Lord Malcolm?  I'd fain look on the bonnie face
of him; I'll ne'er look on his like again.'

No sooner had old Bairdsbrae gone, than Malcolm flung himself down before his cousin, crying,
'Oh, Patrick, you will hear me!  I cannot rest till you know how changed I have been.'

'Changed!' said Patrick; 'ay, and for the better!  Why, Malcolm, I never durst hope to see
you so sturdy and so heartsome.  My father would have been blithe to see you such a gallant
young squire.  Even the halt is gone!'

'Nearly,' said Malcolm.  'But I would fain be puny and puling, to have the clear heart that
once I had.  Oh, hear me! hear me! and pardon me, Patie!'

